-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resistance: Fall of Man
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/insomniacshooter/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Rock-solid design borrows the best aspects from the best first-person shooters.
 outstanding presentation, featuring great weapons and believable environments.
 replayable campaign pits you against an aggressive, fairly intelligent foe.
 fully featured multiplayer mode offers good variety and supports up to 40 players.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Derivative visual style and gameplay is well crafted but mostly unoriginal.
 the campaign's story and characters aren't well developed.
 Two-player cooperative mode isn't available online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 15, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.6
Critic Score: 8.7, 77 Review (s)
User Score: 8.7, 13,863 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Insomniac Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Resistance successfully combines many of the best qualities from other great first-person shooters 
 with spectacular visuals and a few novel twists. 

  If you're going to make a first-person shooter, you might as well take aim to deliver the best 
 of what this style of gaming has to offer. That's what Ratchet &amp; Clank developer Insomniac 
 Games must have done with Resistance: Fall of Man. One of the most highly anticipated titles in 
 the PlayStation 3 launch lineup, Resistance is a technically impressive, well-designed, intense 
 action game that unmistakably draws inspiration from some of the finest recent examples of similar 
 games. Resistance doesn't attempt anything wildly different than other first-person shooters out 
 there, but by offering a strong selection of interesting weapons, plenty of ruthless foes to shoot 
 them at, good level design, and an excellent presentation, it accomplishes what most such games 
 fail to do. A fully featured multiplayer mode for up to 40 players rounds out an exciting campaign 
 in what's an all-around great effort and a promising example of what the PlayStation 3 can do. 

          Nathan Hale's got no time for chitchat. He'll combat the Chimera almost single-handedly 
 in Resistance's action-packed campaign.     

  Resistance takes place in a grim alternate reality in which World War II never happened, yet something 
 possibly even worse happened instead. As political tensions run high in the middle of the 20th 
 century, a monstrous race of horrifying creatures suddenly shows up and starts killing everyone. 
 Initially presumed to be a Russian biological weapon, this fiendish species is known as the Chimera. 
 It quickly overwhelms Asia and most of Europe before it focuses attention on the United Kingdom. 
 In the game, you play as a no-nonsense American soldier named Nathan Hale, who is sent in to reinforce 
 the UK's defenses. A brush with death early on gives Hale a unique perspective of his foe and, 
 before long, he's lone-wolfing it against the worst that the Chimera has to offer. As Hale, you'll 
 blast your way through the devastated streets of England and also find yourself deep within the 
 enemy's own territory as you struggle to survive and turn the tide of a losing battle.  

  The story is told from the perspective of a different officer who briefly interacts with Hale during 
 his missions against a seemingly unstoppable enemy. Her solemn narration is easy enough to follow 
 but not particularly engaging because by her own admission, she doesn't really know what's going 
 on in Hale's head or what's going on with the Chimera. Brief but nicely done cinematic cutscenes 
 using the game's 3D engine at least serve to give Nathan Hale a believably concerned look between 
 battles. Still black-and-white images and charts that are made to look as if they could have come 
 from the early '50s also help set the mood and premise of each level in the game's more than 10 
 main stages. However, the story in Resistance is there mostly to justify a number of fairly conventional, 
 though very well done, first-person shooter battles. You'll learn a bit about the Chimera as you 
 fight, and there's some resolution once you finally finish the campaign after countless grueling 
 shoot-outs. But Hale's character is never developed and he almost never speaks, and the plot has 
 some noticeable gaps. Ultimately, this is a game whose personality mostly comes across when you're 
 shooting something. The Chimera and their ugly spider-like features make them easy to hate straightaway. 

  Resistance controls just like other first-person shooters on consoles. You use the two analog sticks 
 to move and aim, while the left and right shoulder buttons trigger your weapon's primary and alternate 
 firing modes. The game takes a few small liberties with certain conventions, but none that will 
 substantially change how you'll play it if you're used to playing similar stuff. Some of these 
 tweaks to the formula have to do with how you recover your health between shoot-outs. In Resistance's 
 campaign, your health bar is divided up into four quadrants, which automatically recharges up to 
 the nearest quadrant if you avoid getting hit for a little while. This isn't quite like what's 
 become trendy because of games such as the sequels to Halo or Call of Duty, in which your health 
 recharges completely between firefights. Here, when your health is low, you can still survive the 
 typical encounter but you'll really need to be on your guard. Also, unlike in those games, Resistance 
 lets you pick up and carry each new weapon you find, which may not seem as realistic as having 
 room for only a few guns, but it means you get an increasingly powerful, all-purpose arsenal at 
 your disposal. The game transparently saves your progress as you fight through the campaign and 
 uses a checkpoint system in mid-mission. Checkpoints can be fairly sparse at times, creating tension 
 and the need to replay some tough battles repeatedly. But because the combat is dynamic and exciting, 
 having to do this usually isn't a bad thing. However, the game does get almost punishingly hard 
 near the end at the default difficulty setting, forcing a little too much trial and error. There's 
 an easier and a harder difficulty setting as well.  

          Conventional shooter controls that are matched with some unconventional weapons and unusually 
 good graphics make Resistance feel familiar but distinct.     

  It's worth noting that the motion sensor in the PS3's stock Sixaxis controller is put to limited 
 but oddly likable use in this game. For instance, there's this one ghoulish Chimera creature that 
 attempts to sidle up to you and grab you by the throat. Should you let this happen, you can shake 
 the controller to break free from its grip. Because this effect is used sparingly, it's surprising 
 and effective. In multiplayer matches, you might also catch fire if you're torched by an enemy 
 flamethrower. You can't stop, drop, and roll, but by shaking the Sixaxis, you can put the flames 
 out. It's a simple, fairly intuitive way to make you feel a bit more connected to what's happening 
 onscreen.  

  What helps to distinguish Resistance from other first-person shooters is the quality of its weapon 
 design, its enemy artificial intelligence, and its presentation. While these aspects of the game 
 are not substantially different or vastly superior to what's been done before, they're right up 
 there with the best of what such games have had to offer. Resistance doesn't include any real-world 
 weaponry but lets you brandish an impressive variety of powerful make-believe automatics and energy 
 weapons, many of which have imaginative alternate-firing modes. Your starting weapon, a powerful 
 rapid-firing rifle with a 50-round clip and a mounted grenade launcher, will be a mainstay throughout 
 the campaign. You'll also quickly find the Chimeran equivalent, called the bullseye. This is an 
 energy rifle that has the unique ability to fire homing beacons, which causes all of your bullets 
 to zero in on those beacons. So it's possible for you to tag an enemy, then step behind cover and 
 fire straight into the air as those shots automatically change trajectory to find their mark. Another 
 remarkable weapon is the auger, a massive rifle whose shots burrow straight through solid surfaces, 
 making them very difficult to evade. Better yet, the auger can form an energy barrier to protect 
 the user against incoming fire. You'll gain a real appreciation for this fearsome weapon during 
 the campaign.  

  Not all of the weapons are noteworthy because the lineup includes your fairly typical shotgun, 
 sniper rifle, rocket launcher, and so on. Interestingly, when you finish the campaign for the first 
 time, you'll unlock some additional weapons that you can find if you go through it again. You can 
 also find these in the game's multiplayer mode. If there's an issue with the game's guns, it's 
 that you wind up depending on the first two weapons most of the time. Each of these weapons is 
 a fairly standard point-and-shoot affair, so it's perfectly effective to just stick a target in 
 your reticle and go full-auto on it. Resistance definitely has more of a run-and-gun feel to it 
 than a deliberately paced, tactical shooter. However, you still need to inch your way into enemy 
 territory. You'll also need to use grenades to disrupt enemy formations because getting surrounded 
 by your enemies brings swift death and a visit back to the nearest checkpoint. Resistance winds 
 up feeling quite a bit like the Halo games in how it balances a simple, action-packed style of 
 shooting with a basic need to frequently take a defensive position and wait for opportunities against 
 entrenched foes.  

          The chimera aptly fit the profile of your typically ugly, nasty monstrous menace.     

 
  The game presents the Chimera as a virtually unstoppable foe, while Nathan Hale seems uniquely 
 capable of surviving their attacks. In reality, they're not quite as tough as they look -- some concentrated 
 gunfire will bring any of them down eventually. You'll also pick up on how heavily injured Chimera 
 troopers tend to stagger to their knees, which is the perfect time for you to finish them off and 
 the wrong time to move on to the next target. You'll face a variety of Chimera during the course 
 of the game, including some very predictable spider-like things that burst forth from egg sacs 
 and rush you mindlessly. The vast majority of the time, however, you'll be fighting squads of Chimeran 
 hybrids. Typically armed with bullseye rifles, these soldiers are quite effective at using cover, 
 as well as flanking and rushing tactics. They'll also flush you out of hiding with one of their 
 hedgehog grenades, which send deadly needles flying in every direction when they explode. Fighting 
 against the hybrids grows to feel a bit monotonous in spots because they're by far the most common 
 type of foe you'll face. Yet it's a testament to the quality of the game's artificial intelligence 
 and presentation that battling these forces is often quite thrilling.     

  The nature of the combat against the Chimera changes quite dramatically depending on where you're 
 fighting. Much of the shooting in Resistance occurs at medium and long ranges as you, any fellow 
 soldiers, and the Chimera move from cover to cover, taking potshots. However, you can also look 
 forward to plenty of room-to-room fighting, as well as shoot-outs from within dimly lit, claustrophobic 
 corridors. Even if you don't usually get a good sense of a desperate war being waged, you get a 
 good sense of scale from the different environments in the game. Battles can be particularly fun 
 when you're joined by friendly soldiers and get to intercept enemies focused on taking down these 
 computer-controlled comrades. But there are never more than a handful of humans there to help you 
 out, and they'll probably wind up dead soon anyway. The game does have a few nice moments in which 
 you're able to save another man's life as he's about to be executed by a Chimeran monster. Yet 
 this aspect seems like it could have been more fleshed out because the game does little to make 
 you care for your disposable allies, who run into combat shouting typical "we're under fire" platitudes. 

          A few vehicle-driving sequences are thrown into the campaign for good measure.     

 
  For variety, Resistance throws a few vehicle-driving sequences into the mix. And if you squinted 
 your eyes during these parts, you could mistake them for Halo. Piloting a highly destructive tank 
 or driving a jeep with a machine gunner in back does make for a good diversion, though these vehicles 
 are so powerful that they make you wonder how humanity lost so badly to the Chimera in the first 
 place. Then again, the Chimera have a few imposingly large vehicles and creatures of their own. 
 Yet the way that the human vehicles make you feel practically indestructible undermines some of 
 the sense that you're fighting an uphill battle. Even so, these sequences are rare and different 
 enough from the on-foot running and gunning that they're a welcome part of the campaign. While 
 fairly straightforward, the campaign does a great job of never stooping to make you backtrack, 
 solve puzzles, or otherwise waste time doing anything other than fighting against powerful foes. 
 It does this for a good 10 to 12 hours, culminating in a series of difficult showdowns.  

  There are several good reasons to go back to the campaign multiple times, including the extra weapons 
 that get unlocked after you finish the game once. You can optionally play through the whole campaign 
 cooperatively in a split-screen view, though it's too bad you can't play cooperatively online. 
 Co-op mode naturally invites some new types of tactics, and it's somewhat easier than playing solo 
 because you can revive your partner if he goes down, which is a good way to take the edge off of 
 the hard difficulty mode. The campaign also lets you dig around for unique pieces of military intelligence 
 that are scattered throughout the levels, which give some additional insight into the Chimeran 
 menace and the back story. Finally, the campaign features a series of unlockable challenges that 
 are called skill points, which are achieved by accomplishing certain specific feats. For instance, 
 you can earn one by roasting several bad guys with a single air-fuel grenade. These points are 
 tallied up to unlock some bonus features, such as concept art galleries.  

  Of course, there's an entire multiplayer mode to keep you busy in addition to the campaign. Multiplayer 
 features a variety of maps (based on areas from the campaign) , some of which accommodate smaller 
 eight-player or 16-player matches, while others are intended for full-on 40-player war. There are 
 six different multiplayer variants in all, including your conventional deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and capture-the-flag types. There's also a last-man-standing-style mode called "conversion"; and 
 two base assault modes, called "meltdown" and "breach," which are reminiscent of Unreal Tournament 
 2004's onslaught mode in how they're set up to make players fight over specific points on each 
 map. Playing on prerelease servers with a full 40 players, we experienced smooth, lag-free battles 
 in each of these different modes of play, although your mileage may vary. You can also play over 
 a network or try to squeeze some enjoyment out of a split-screen mode for up to four players. Resistance's 
 online multiplayer interface lets you easily find ranked or custom, unranked matches. It also includes 
 support for setting up competitive clans, a "party" system for seeking out online matches together 
 with your friends, and a "buddy" system for keeping track of which of your friends are online. 
 You'll also rank up and earn special insignias based on your multiplayer accomplishments.  

          The human and Chimeran sides have some distinct gameplay differences in the multiplayer 
 modes of Resistance.     

  The most interesting aspect of Resistance's multiplayer mode is that you can play as either the 
 humans or the Chimeran hybrids, and the two sides are quite different. Humans can quickly sprint 
 from point to point and have access to an onscreen radar that points out both friends and foes. 
 Chimerans make bigger targets and don't have a radar but can enter into a rage at the touch of 
 a button, which temporarily makes them faster, stronger, tougher... and capable of seeing through 
 walls. Although either type of character can use any weapon once they pick it up, the respective 
 sides also start off with their standard-issue rifles. Overall, the differences between the two 
 sides are pronounced yet seem nicely balanced. The multiplayer modes typically force you to change 
 sides in between rounds, which also helps break up the pace of these matches. Even if it boils 
 down to the same type of thing that other shooters have been doing for a while, the well-designed 
 weaponry, exciting presentation, and support for a large number of players makes Resistance's multiplayer 
 mode impressive.  

  Resistance is going to invite a lot of close scrutiny on the most superficial level. And in spite 
 of a few easily dismissed rough edges, it looks fantastic. Much like the rest of the game, the 
 quality of the visuals might not be vastly superior to what other graphically impressive shooters 
 have delivered in the past, but they're at least as good and marginally better in most ways. The 
 Chimeran hybrids are great to see in action, and you'll likely appreciate how errant gunfire tends 
 to puncture the tubing on their strange backpacks. The game features some great-looking flame effects 
 and some strikingly impressive yet underutilized glass-shattering. It also features plenty of excellent 
 lighting and weapon fire, as well as beautifully rendered, realistic environments. Although, some 
 of the visual design, such as for the Chimera's ominous-looking steel barriers that wall off portions 
 of England's cities, evokes a real Half-Life 2 vibe. Resistance doesn't always succeed at clearly 
 defining its own visual style, but the visuals still are terrific and will substantially contribute 
 to your enjoyment of the game as a whole. It helps that the frame rate stays smooth and steady 
 even when the action gets very intense. Bear in mind that Resistance looks much better when viewed 
 on a high-definition display; on a standard television set, the game's visuals seem understated 
 and may be hard to distinguish from those of other sci-fi-themed shooters.  

          It's good news that Resistance plays about as good as it looks.     

  The audio doesn't 
 give up much slack either. Powerful weapon effects reverberate loudly throughout the game, though 
 the human rifle's roar is much more dramatic than the bullseye's high-pitched whine. The sound 
 of stray gunfire hitting everything around you will be more than enough to make you look for cover. 
 And the Chimera sound appropriately menacing, if predictable, with their low, guttural growls. 
 Resistance's musical score is fittingly bombastic, symphonic stuff and picks up sparingly during 
 particularly key moments during the campaign. It's not especially memorable, but it works very 
 well to deliver some of the campaign's most exciting sequences. Besides the narration, there's 
 not a lot of speech in the game, either. But what's there is fine, even if the British soldiers 
 you'll be fighting alongside seem just a little too upbeat about the dire circumstances. As for 
 Resistance's other technical merits, loading times between missions are noticeable but not bad 
 in spite of how the game frequently writes to the PS3's hard drive between missions, presumably 
 to help keep loading times to a minimum.  

  If you consider yourself a fan of first-person shooters, then you really owe it to yourself to 
 give Resistance: Fall of Man a shot. Whether that means taking the plunge for a PlayStation 3, 
 playing one over at your filthy-rich friend's house, or whatever else it's going to take is beside 
 the point. What matters is that developer Insomniac Games took the best aspects of some of the 
 best first-person shooters from the past couple of years, added some great weapons and visual flourishes, 
 and put it all together just in time for the PS3's launch.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1193 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: SimonB1195
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I've only just got a PS3 and I got this game because I saw its was cheap...
  But it's good, the first time you play it you don't care for it much but the campaign gets better 
 and better. Better guns, vehicles and bigger, funner Chimera to slaughter. The guns are fun and 
 tagging enemies with bullsye or blowing them to pieces with a grenade. The online multiplayer is 
 difficult, but you get used to it and eventually start killing people. You should go on the custom 
 games they're a lot funner and more entertaining than the ranked ones, those are to annoying and 
 difficult I love the sniping system on this game it is fab zooming in and shooting enemies from 
 the otherside of the map is really good fun. And whenever I kill someone who has a headset and 
 they curse me it makes me smile and laugh lol. Great game. Recommended. 8.5/10
  
  :) :) :)
  My PSN: UK-MrSim-UK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siosal01
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 17, 2009 4:28 am PT
Review:  I had heard a lot about this game before playing it and maybe it's because I played it 2 years 
 after it was launched but it left me with a bit of an empty feeling. A notion of a lot of ideas 
 that never quite do what they set out to.
  
  The story telling in this game is spot on putting you in the roll of a soldier that becomes somewhat 
 of a myth. But the gamesply itself feels shallow. This is not helped by guns that, although great 
 on paper, fail to live up to their power. 
  
  It is a fun game, and I'm sure that there are many that love it to death. I appreciate the effort 
 that went into the making of this game. 
  
  Maybe i should have played this before Killzone 2. But i didn't and although I can't fail the game 
 it is only slightly above mediocre as it's amazing ideas are left face down in the mud. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _F_F_7_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all the graphics are brilliant. Especially when playing on HDMI. The storyline is gripping 
 and the missions are hard but you just can't stop playing them.
  
  With a wide variety of weapons and multiple functions on all of them you never get bored of blasting 
 the crap out of the Chimera.
  
  The final mission is both extremely hard and extremely fun. No longer does the charge and kill 
 tactic work but you have to do realistic trench warfare to kill your enemies.
  
  You have to use different tactics in every part of the last mission which makes it pleasing when 
 it pays off.
  
  The co-op action isn't as fun as one player but is a nice option when with a friend however it 
 kind of disrupts the storyline. The multyplayer is great with friends as well.
  
  All in all a great game that should be experienced by all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 28, 2009 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man came from the company (Insomniac) which was behind the massively succesful 
 "Ratchet And Clank" Playstation 2 series of games. R: FOM delivers in many different ways, Even 
 if not all of these are very original.
  
  Good Points
  - Fantastic Launch game for the PS3
  - Great graphics
  - Engaging story
  - Good selection 
 of weapons
  - Very long campaign
  - The campaign is also very enjoyable and action packed
  
  Bad Points
  - Some levels feel 
 overly difficult
  - Most cut-scenes were very short.
  - Friendly AI leaves much to be desired
  
  R: FOM is a great FPS, combining some great conventions 
 from other FPS (For Example, carry all weapons you find, much like Half-Life 2) and its own unique 
 story and blend of enjoyable weapons and gameplay elements which set it apart from other games 
 in the same genre. The game's protagonist, Nathan Hale, is an American soldier who volunteered 
 to fight the Chimera, a deadly race of Alien/Monster type mutated humanoids. Coming out of Russia, 
 the Chimera have brought most European nations to the ground, with England being the last front 
 line standing in the way of the Chimera war machine. As Nathan Hale, you will discover some of 
 the darkest secrets of the Chimera as you fight your way across England in an effort to help stop 
 the Chimera advancement.
  
  Some high points in this game were in the weapon design; Each and every weapon felt different and 
 unique, From the Bullseye to the L-23 Fareye. All weapons come with a primary and secondary fire, 
 most of which are both original (and deadly) combos. The Bullseye, the chimera equivalent of a 
 standard infantry assault rifle fires a heavy, inaccurate spray toward an enemy. The accuracy can 
 be increased however, by using this unique fan-favorite's alternate fire: the homing tag. This 
 can allow you to tag an enemy, hide yourself behind adequate cover and spend a clip, knowing all 
 the rounds will hit the enemy. Another interesting addition to the traditional FPS armory was the 
 Auger, a heavy rifle with penetrative rounds to pass through any and every barrier and cover your 
 enemies can use. This creates some interesting opportunities to take down some of the game's strongest 
 enemies, simply by hiding and waiting for the cross-hair to change color before opening fire.
 
  
  The graphics were surprisingly good in Resistance: Fall of man, providing an interesting blend 
 of technical proficiency with some nice directing to give the game a real yet surreal Sci-Fi feel. 
 From English townhouses and churches to Chimera conduits and conversion plants, the graphics never 
 cease to amaze. Although some elements such as the physics on corpses could have used an improvement, 
 this in an overall satisfying graphical adventure (or war) .
  
  The enemy forces are made up of an assortment of humanoid troops, who are quite good at both sniffing 
 you out and killing you once you've been found. The basic troops who are armed with the Bullseye 
 are still a surprisingly challenging foe, especially when taken on in large numbers, and are usually 
 able to corner and/or kill you. More advanced enemies such as the Gray-Jack, a large, tall, hideously 
 overgrown humanoid unit who attacks with horrifyingly long limbs and nails, provide a different 
 challenge, which also help to break up the gameplay style and add to the games overall value.
 
  
  This game took me around 15 hours to complete, which I found very impressive as I consider myself 
 quite the adept at First Person Shooters. The mission variety differs little between location, 
 although Vehicle and Cliche'd dark, scary tunnel missions can help to make this an experience you 
 won't soon forget. 
  
  Some elements which could have done with a polish include the friendly AI and the sound design. 
 The friendly AI proves only as a distraction for much of the game. Instead of lying in wait or 
 cover like the Chimera, friendly troops will usually charge out of cover and wait to be shot, and 
 even though they are adequate and useful bullet shield for some of the game's larger battles, it 
 would have been nice to watch large scale battles play out in an equal, balanced battlefield.
 
  
  Overall, Resistance: Fall Of Man is a highly impressive game, and considering it now retails for 
 around $30-$35 AUD (around $20-$25 USD) , It is a fantastic and unmissable FPS which can be enjoyed 
 exclusively on the Playstation 3 System. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wyney-2k8
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:58 am PT
Review:  This game is OK, the visuals for me, are not as polished as Call of Duty for example. The campaign 
 bored me after a while, with the extremely bad English accents. However, the Online multiplayer 
 was pretty decent and makes it a game with high re-play value, but again, online on CoD was much 
 better. I have played much more FPS out there that have the exact same features as this game, even 
 some PS2 titles. Overall, I'm not saying this game is BAD, I'm saying it could be a lot better 
 with added features, slightly better graphics and needs to be more polished. I would recommend 
 Call of Duty any day over this, i have not played Resistance 2 so i have no take on that. Thank 
 you for reading my review! It just wasn't the game for me. Overall Score - 5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SGTiD1NG0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  Resistance was the first shooter on the line up for the Playstation 3, which attracted many Playstation 
 2 shooters and made 360 players jealous. But when the reviews were posted, it was forgettable, 
 8.6 nothing special enough to buy a Playstation 3. What's the point on paying 400-$800 at the 
 time for a system with a few decent exclusives which will never compare to Gears of War and possibly 
 Halo 3. Well, now you can get a Playstation 3 for 300-$400 and Playstation 3 is soaring, why shouldn't 
 you consider this great game when and if you already have a Playstation 3.
  
  Resistance puts you in the shoes of Nathan Hale, nothing is known much about him but you are quickly 
 put into battle against mutated humans known as chimera. Back in the day, disease spread and eventually 
 humans started to turn into mutants slowly, and slowly humans more rapidly began to change. These 
 chimeras still possessed much of the skills as humans to possessed, with inevitably a revolution 
 began, factories began, weapons manufactured and although the disease was stopped with scientists 
 it didn't stop these chimera from converting humans into more chimera. It all came too suddenly 
 when after all the speculation of missing people came to a halt when on the days after World War 
 2 the chimera invaded Russia. Taken within week they advanced onwards towards Austria and Germany 
 then England. You, Nathan Hale are tasked with aiding the British Troopers in a last desperate 
 attempt to force back the chimera.
  
  Resistance may not have a thrilling story, but it's engaging enough to constantly play throughout 
 just to complete and get that satisfaction of playing huge set piece battles. While the story is 
 long, it is certainly punishing for that matter for mostly a casual gamer, even for a intermediate 
 gamer this game can be very challenging making it very punishing in terms of frustration. Just 
 as you though the difficulty was challenging enough then the par is raised to a whole new degree 
 from one mission to the next it goes up a step quite high. This might just be because of the amount 
 of Hybrids, variety of Hybrids or lack of ammo and health. This can result in alot of cheap deaths 
 which can make you finished with the campaign and onto the multi player portion of the game within 
 a week or maybe even two if you've completed it. While the game might be disappointing at some 
 respects, the huge variety of enemies is a huge bonus. While taking down a platoon of Hybrids might 
 not seem so fun, taking down Stalkers and Titans can be thrilling. These aren't really boss battles 
 but in their own respect almost feel up with them. Howlers are cool too with infected like wolves 
 but more aggressive and bigger for that matter, then you have what some games have as you like 
 to call elites. Elite Hybrids are pretty easy to take down but there are also well equipped Hybrids 
 with Arc Chargers (flamethrower like but zappers) and other well priced weapons. Then you have 
 the so much more of the universe to explore as you progress, which will certainly appeal to most 
 Sci-Fi fans. You can even pause the game and look at facts about Chimera, Weapons etc. This is 
 a nice little gimmick which is really cool to see how they were created or infected and how they 
 attack and survive in the climatic Chimera battles. However taking out these Chimera with a friend 
 is even more fun but not only that but makes the punishing campaign slightly less, it's just a 
 shame that you couldn't play it online in co op which would've made the campaign more easier to 
 deal with.
  
  Resistance maybe referred to in game play as Old School feel and you're absolutely correct, it 
 really has that polished arcade feel to it, which doesn't feel old at all. If you loved the polished 
 game play schematics of Call of Duty, you most likely won't be disappointed with Resistance. The 
 buttons are mainly well positioned but lack that last bit of refinement with the holding down crouch 
 button to be L2 while the Grenade Launcher button being L1. While this can be quite fiddly, you 
 can easily change control settings to your liking however you cannot change the fact to keep tapping 
 the designated aim button to go in and out of sight. Especially for fans of Call of Duty, this 
 could dissapoint. The crosshair is mainly good for each weapon although some weapons lack balance. 
 The standard Chimera Bullseye Assault Rifle feels much worse than the Soldier Carbine Assault Rifle. 
 The crosshair makes the game play feel more unpolished with a weird cross hair on some weapons 
 but that's nothing too bad that contributes to the games overall greatness. Online weapons are 
 like Old School mode on Call of Duty and Gears of War maps where you must access around the map 
 and pick up weapons to survive and kill opposing people. Certain guns can easily roost multi player 
 maps and although the bazooka only has four rounds all you need is four kills a life to help yourself 
 or your team even win a match. There's also the Arc Charger which in certain situations can get 
 you a lots of kills depending on your range, if close and you have "trigger fingers" you're well 
 on your way to getting several kills a life. Don't even get started on the Hailstorm, the gun online 
 has about 100 rounds and while it goes quick it reflects of walls and can be quite helpful sometimes 
 but the sheer power of the rapid fire bullets are enough to kill someone in a mille seconds. Over 
 than a few over powered guns, weapons are mainly balanced pretty well. 
  
  The graphics are above average for its release but you can't really compare it to games like Killzone 
 nowadays. Cut scenes are almost never used and will only be seen once or twice throughout the course 
 of the campaign even then the graphics are only near great and that's at its time. The enemies 
 and soldiers look anything but good although environments are all to stray and bland. Online graphics 
 are poor, very poor because of sufficiently bland environments and terrible level design but chimera 
 and soldiers remain intact from the campaign. 
  
  The sound isn't good at all to be honest because of virtually none what so ever dialogue let alone 
 voice acting. The story uses slide shows instead of cut scenes although some are used, the characters 
 in that don't even talk which shows of no voice acting. The story is presented in third person 
 by a female soldier who uses your diary to re call the events of you story and the voice acting 
 of her is good but nothing special. The weapons to be honest could have been alot better, mainly 
 because all weapons have really the same Sci Fi sound. It's a shame really because the sound is 
 really the only part with demolishes from what Resistance could have been a much better game.
 
  
  Once you have finished with the long lengthy campaign whether completed or not, the games overall 
 value comes from the incredible multi player. The lobby features unranked and ranked gaming so 
 you can practice a little to get used to the ranked side although it's not for certain you will 
 play beginners. In terms of goodies, Resistance offers alot with 30 levels which will take a couple 
 of days to achieve maximum status. Awards will be mentioned on many categories headshot, killing 
 spree, sniper kills with a total of fifty awards or so. Once you achieve the award it doesn't stop 
 there, awards are mentioned every time you achieve them even if multiple times and will show how 
 many kill sprees you have which also applies to the other awards. Character customization goes 
 so far to make it a fair add on which could have been turned into a great customization like Rainbow 
 Six implements. Character customization goes as far as whether you want to be white or black raced 
 or maybe have a equipment backpack or not. Nevertheless it's worth the addition. Each map is fast 
 paced and each features something great about it and although the textures are too bland to recommend 
 it's the overall presentation which appeals to you. But with a lag free 32 online multi player, 
 it really shows how online can shine on some games with some great servers. Relating back to the 
 game play some weapons can be very unbalanced but it isn't frequent enough to get too annoying. 
 You can even compare stats with everyone in your lobby which is great to just see how good they 
 are or just show yourself of, you can see their preferred weapons, kills with selected weapons 
 and even bullets fired and reloads. Don't forget basic statistics like accumulated kills and deaths 
 however it's a shame statistics aren't updated sooner. It takes one or two matches for the scores 
 to update before you can track your scores effectively. 
  
  So did it succeed? Yes, of course but not enough to make it revolutionary and require you to buy 
 a Playstation 3. But that doesn't mean if you own a Playstation 3 then this game isn't a worthy 
 addition to your collection, especially since this game is only a couple of bucks there is no excuse 
 not to buy this game whether you're on a tight budget, wish to try out the first before the expensive 
 sequel or just want to play the prequel for the fairly decent story. With a fairly long but punishing 
 campaign but with a top notch online experience, Resistance is a game which almost made the Playstation 
 3 exclusive worthy of buying the console early on, but at a couple of notes it should be bought 
 when you are in need of a shooter, in definitely! 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  .Pros
  . Controls are changeable to go with your preference
  . Intresting chimera totalling about 20 different kinds
  . Graphics are decent, even years on
 
  . Great and fun to shoot weapons
  . Lengthy meaty campaign
  . Solid old school feel gameplay
  . Some of the best multi player ever seen in a game
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  .Cons
  . Almost no dialogue or voice acting let alone cut scenes
  . Even with changebale controls 
 clicking in and out while aiming 
  using the L1 when changing is annoying. Aiming zooms to far in 
  so you can't get a great view 
 of your target.
  . Online there are some unbalanced weapons which are far 
  superior than some weapons
  . Sounds on guns are all to Sci Fi with not much variety
  . While 
 it's a lengthy campaign, it's a punishing one at that
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Story Missions: 7.0
  Story Plot: 7.0
  Gameplay: 8.0
  Graphics: 7.5
  Sound: 5.5
  Online: 9.5
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall 7.9
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: damiancds
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  To the point...
  
  The Good -
  
  - The AI is fairly well designed. they won't just sit there and wait for you to come, if your hiding 
 behind some cover they'll attempt to flank and try to kill you. The enemies are extremely aggressive 
 which adds to the difficulty (next bullet) .
  
  - This game is pretty hard (on normal setting) because of the lack of a cover system (not needed 
 and I think it would hurt the game if it had it) and the health system (half regenerative half 
 bar) as well as the aggressiveness of the enemies. My brother and I played co-op together on normal 
 and found ourselves dying quite frequently (he has a run and gun play style which got him killed 
 a lot) . Basically the difficulty is a good point because I found it rather refreshing, where as 
 in Gears of War 2, we played together on Hardcore (one difficulty up from normal) and rarely died.
 
  
  - On a second play through, more guns are unlocked as well as a grenade. I'll probably replay it 
 just for the guns, but it's nice that the developers gave you more of a reason to play it again 
 other than just to fight boredom.
  
  
  The Bad -
  
  - Zoom / Iron Sights feels broken. By that I mean that you can't toggle it (in or out) while you're 
 looking around. You can toggle it if you're moving, just not looking. Every time you want to switch 
 it, you basically have to stop moving the analog stick (that's assigned to looking) and then toggle. 
 It didn't actually break the game for me, it just nagged at me every time I was in a confrontation 
 and needed a quick swap.
  
  - Sensitivity is way too high. This could be because I've been playing shooters on my computer 
 and am just not used to the higher sensitivity that goes with console gaming (I had to have it 
 on 1 or 0 sensitivity most of the time) .
  
  - WWII Feel. You can basically just not count this, but I can't stand WWII shooters (precisely 
 why I probably won't buy COD 5 when I loved COD 4) . Even though there's really no link to WWII 
 other than a little story and the look of about 2 guns, it just has that feel. (it's probably all 
 in my head)
  
  - The missions / sections are very short. It's actually unfortunate because right about the time 
 you get into a flow of fighting and everything, the mission ends and you get a short story section 
 and it breaks the flow up just enough to bother you.
  
  - Some of the guns look the same which is annoying when you have so many to cycle through. It also 
 would have been nicer to have a better weapon system, carrying too many guns (8 total) makes it 
 harder to get what you want on the fly.
  
  - One weapon, the Auger, is extremely annoying when used against you. It has the ability to shoot 
 through walls (the reticle even turns red when you're looking at the wall if there is an enemy 
 in the line if sight) and it isn't very weak either.
  
  
  In the end-
  I was very pleased with this purchase, and for only 30 bucks now, it's pretty much a steal. It 
 may seem like there's more bad than good but the bad don't take away from the game enough to count 
 them heavily. It's a great game, not perfect, but worth a mention 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tikicobra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  FPS fans looking for a fun and frantic game with fun online play and an interesting story would 
 be doing themselves a favor by giving Resistance: Fall of Man a try. It has a unique atmosphere 
 and sense of style that Resistance 2 left behind for its American setting, as well as fantastic 
 narration from the game's leading lady, Rachel Parker. The game starts out strong, and then gets 
 better as it goes on. You'll make your way through towns, Chimeran ships, and snowy battlefields 
 over the course of Resistance's surprisingly lenghty campaign. In fact, there's so much variety 
 here that nothing ever begins to feel old. There's a good combination of indoor and outdoor levels, 
 as well as some vehicle sections, that keep the gameplay fresh. And while not all of these sections 
 are exactly winners, they break up the gameplay enough that it's fun no matter how long you play 
 for.
  
  To begin, Resistance is a very pretty game. The weapons look great, the characters are interesting, 
 levels are well-designed and the atmosphere adds a lot of drama to the experience, with all the 
 greens and browns, as well as the cool settings. It's safe to say the Chimera are some extremely 
 cool enemies, and are a lot of fun to kill. There are also a lot of them to go around, with some 
 that are tall, others that are small, some that are strong and some that are weak. Enemy variety 
 isn't a problem in Resistance, fortunately. Additionally, there are some large and varied online 
 maps, such as deserts, jungles, towns and a bus yard. There are some very small graphical problems, 
 but nothing major. For example, when Hale holds the Bullseye his hand looks almost Chimera-like. 
 There are also some poor textures, but as an early PS3 game, it looks great, and there's a miraculous 
 lack of slowdown, even in large battles.
  
  Insomniac has once again delivered top-notch production values with Resistance's fantastic voice-acting 
 and sound effects. There isn't a whole lot of music, but what's there is dramatic and fitting. 
 Rachel Parker's narration throughout the campaign is very dramatic and does a good job of telling 
 the story, while Nathan Hale does a good job of keeping his mouth shut, and therefore making him 
 a much more interesting character than he might be if he talked more. He has a mysterious air to 
 him, with almost nothing about him being explained. Nothing is known about his past, and it makes 
 him all the more intriguing. Nathan Hale isn't the only character in Resistance, though. The army 
 have voices too, all of which are great, though not memorable, while characters such as Cartwright's 
 voices are extremely well done.
  
  The game controls extremely well for Insomniac's first effort at a first-person-shooter since Disruptor, 
 with responsive controls as well as a good controller layout that's easy to pick up and play. Of 
 course, that doesn't make the game itself easy. Quite the opposite, in fact. As you progress throughout 
 the storyline you'll begin to encounter even more powerful Chimera, and larger numbers of them 
 as well. The campaign is extremely intense, as is the online. Up to 40 players can do battle on 
 tons of different maps in modes such as Deatmatch, Team Deathmatch, Meltdown and more. All the 
 modes are fun, and with all the ranks Resistance has to offer, the game will keep you busy for 
 a very long time. And if you need encouragement to rank up, then fear not, as every time you do 
 you'll receive new uniform pieces for your character. 
  
  Resistance has four difficulties to play, skill points to collect, extras to unlock, intel to find, 
 and ranks to achieve. Of course, it's not all useless. Collecting skill points earns you awards 
 such as concept art, while completing the game on the final difficulty with all skill points will 
 unlock a new skin for online play. Intel will give you interesting back-stories on Chimeran technology 
 and other interesting facts about the war. Ranking up earns new clothes for your soldier, which 
 you can display happily to show off your skill as you run about and gun down the opposition. Additionally, 
 there's a simple, but fun co-op mode, as well as a story so fun it's worth playing again and again.
 
  
  In the end, Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the PlayStation 3's best shooters, with its top-notch 
 production values, great art design, fun gameplay and huge amount of replayability. It's one of 
 Insomniac's finest games, and it will last you a very long time, whether you're an FPS veteran 
 or a newby. If you own a PlayStation 3, then you need to own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctor_kaz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  The standards for first person shooters are incredibly high nowadays. The genre has had many outstanding 
 entries in the past five years. Games like F. E. A. R., Rainbow Six: Vegas, Crysis, Half-Life 2, Call 
 of Duty 4, and S. T. A. L. K. E. R. have advanced first person shooters with breakthroughs in AI, physics, 
 tactical firefights, and level design. As a result, games that would have been great five years 
 ago have become somewhat mundane. This brings us to "Resistance: Fall of Man", the flagship launch 
 title for the PS3. It is solid and competent in every way possible, which makes it at least playable. 
 However, other than an excellent selection of weapons, it is lacking in traits that make it particularly 
 exceptional or fun. It is at least worth adding to your collection if you are a hardcore fan of 
 first person shooters, but it doesn't necessarily need to be at the top of your list.
  
  Resistance starts with a twist on a hopelessly overcrowded genre  the World War II shooter. In 
 this game, a mysterious viral outbreak is transforming millions of people into monsters, known 
 as The Chimera. Instead of fighting the Nazis, the British and Americans are fighting for the survival 
 of the human race. You play as Nathan Hale, an American infected by this virus who, for some reason, 
 remains human, but with some special abilities. This story, unfortunately, does not get very interesting 
 beyond a promising beginning. The game occasionally suggests that you will uncover a conspiracy 
 behind the origin or the spread of the virus, or that there is something interesting behind your 
 immunity to it. Documents that you find on each level and some voice-over narration suggest that 
 there is a huge back-story surrounding the game and greater universe built that could come into 
 play later. These potential storylines are never developed, and instead the virus seems like just 
 a convenient substitute to what is essentially an alien invasion. The Chimera end up conveniently 
 providing some sci-fi weapons and nonhuman enemies to keep the game from being just another World 
 War II shooter. Perhaps future installments will round out the story.
  
  The interesting mixture of World War II era and alien sci-fi weapons is easily the strength of 
 this game. It contains the usual weaponry like the automatic rifle/grenade launcher combo, shotgun, 
 and sniper rifle. On top of those weapons, it has some very interesting and creative alien guns. 
 There is the standard issue "pew pew" laser rifle that enemy grunts carry. The alt fire on this 
 weapon tags enemies so that shots will track them  even around corners. Another gun can shoot 
 through walls. Another can spend its entire clip to launch a floating turret. The usual frag grenades 
 are augmented by a "bouncing betty" type grenade that shoots spikes and a fuel-air bomb that creates 
 a big inferno. The strength of the weapons selection isn't just that they have some creative alt 
 fires or the novelty of mixing World War II with science fiction. They are very well balanced and 
 the interesting functions that they provide are also practical. You eventually round out your arsenal 
 with eight guns, all of which you use on a somewhat regular basis. This says a lot for the design 
 and balance of the game, since most games that allow you to carry a lot of guns have just a few 
 that dominate and a few that are useless.
  
  The weapons are the most notable feature in a game that is otherwise lacking in notable features. 
 The enemies that you fight suffer somewhat from a lack of imagination on the part of the developers. 
 There is a basic grunt that you will fight a thousand times with essentially the same weapon every 
 time. There is a tougher version of these guys who carries the gun that shoots through walls. Then 
 there are occasional swarms of spider-like creatures that rush at you and jump on you -- as if 
 fans of first person shooters weren't tired of fighting spiders years ago. There is a tough dog-like 
 creature that howls at charges at you. There is a big tank-like monster that shoots rockets. Then 
 there are gigantic mech creatures. None of these creatures are especially creepy or interesting. 
 Their AI is functional, but not very robust. They have that magical wall-hacking and always aware 
 capability that tends to define AI in less impressive shooters. This means that it is totally impossible 
 to do something like flank your enemies. They also have pretty much perfect aim, even when they 
 are strafing at full speed.
  
  Resistance's firefights are also okay, but not superb. Your regenerating health bar means that 
 you can take out most groups of enemies provided you can find a place to hide if you take a little 
 bit of damage. The fighting lacks some of the special details that have improved some recent shooters. 
 The enemies aren't very dynamic. They generally rush at you or pick one cover spot. There are no 
 cover mechanics that allow you to safely pop in and out of cover to return fire. The shouts and 
 AI barks that you hear from your occasional companions are pretty generic stuff that has been in 
 a dozen other shooters. A lot of fights involve moving forward to trigger the next wave of enemies, 
 and then running backwards for cover, where you can pick them off one at a time. 
  
  Most of the levels are also somewhat unremarkable. There is an impressive mixture of indoor and 
 outdoor areas though, so you will get a chance to use your short range melee attack in addition 
 to your sniper rifle and rocket launcher. Beyond this bit of variety, they can get a bit dull. 
 Most of the scenery looks directly pulled out of any World War II game. The bombed-out buildings, 
 the trenches, and the inside of a military base  they are all there. There are also some tunnels 
 and some rather generic sci-fi locations that might remind you of the Combine facilities in Half-Life 
 2 or The Orange Box. Square shapes like boxes and crates abound. The color palette is a predictable 
 sea of browns and grays. There isn't much to do besides move through each level and shoot everything 
 that gets in your way. Destructible elements in the environment are almost nonexistent. There are 
 some very rare and short-lived vehicle sequences which are a lot of fun to play. In particular, 
 there is one sequence where you drive a jeep cross-country and splatter enemies under your tires 
 while your AI companion mows them down with the machine gun. At the end of the game, you might 
 find yourself wondering why there weren't more of these to break up some of the monotony.
  
  One other asset of this game is its length. There are eleven huge chapters, each of which is 
 broken down into three or four levels. If you are an experienced gamer, the campaign will take 
 you 12 hours or more to finish, even if you don't get killed very often. As modern action games 
 go, it is quite long, and other than an extremely hard first fifteen minutes, there aren't any 
 really bad levels or parts that fail. The downside of the length is that it gets repetitive and 
 bogs down pretty badly in the middle of the game. A little bit more variety in the action, scenery, 
 and enemies could have gone a long way into making this game a great one. 
  
  "Resistance: Fall of Man" is very good for a launch title and a solid first entry into the FPS 
 genre for Insomniac, a studio more known for its offbeat "Ratchet and Clank" series. The studio's 
 penchant for creative weapon design shows up here, and everything else in the game at least functions. 
 Resistance is at least a good game, but it is also overshadowed by numerous other genre entries 
 that are worth playing first. If you have already visited these games on your PS3 though and you 
 would like a little something more, you could make a lot worse choices than playing this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeonfollower
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:09 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man is the game that kinda like old school shooter but modern in a story telling 
 and technology warfare. When I first get this game and play it, I feel something interesting and 
 compelling, not to mention, bizarre about the Hero: Nathan Hale. I mean, where could he get that 
 anti-biotic serum in his body to prevent the small creatures that invading his body that called 
 "Crawler" correct me if I'm wrong, I forgot the name. Well I understand that he is the hero of 
 the game but that is something I like to know about the storyline. This game has graphic that reminds 
 me of Call Of Duty game. The atmosphere and environment of the game is straight out of a movie 
 like Saving Private Ryan. The multiplayer is also entertaining and good experience throughout the 
 mayhem. I like deathmatch mostly cause it doesn't need any goal you need to perform except blasting 
 you online buddies to the pulp. The level in RFOM are greatly combined with great sense in mind 
 and beautifully rendered alien buildings and underground tunnel with rich contrast. Sadly, the 
 in game video is just an illustration drawn with some spoken English accent throughout the game, 
 not like every major Japanese game I see so far like Metal Gear Solid Guns Of The Patriots that 
 combine the gameplay and cutscenes into one endless lifel-ike game story telling that hooked you 
 till the end. Then again, maybe the developer Insomniac Games has their reasons, I may never know 
 what their is. But when I see the trailer of Resistance 2, I gawking at the good quality pics and 
 it's better than HALO! It's true people of Gamespot! It's more vibrant and colorful version of 
 RFOM. Great work Insomniac! 4 thumbs up for you people! Lastly, I have a great time writing this 
 review. I'm sorry if there is a mistake in my proverb. Happy gaming everyone! Peace and take care 
 all of you out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:34 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was one of the first launch titles for the PS3 and it was the second game 
 that I owned for the Playstation, and it was a good reason when it came out to own a PS3. It may 
 not be the best FPS ever but it is very original and has good gameplay and graphics to match, along 
 with an interesting storyline. The guns in this game are the most original part, whether you use 
 the standard Carbine or the Auger, which can shoot through walls, or the Fareye, a sniper rifle 
 that can slow down time. The single player was the best part in this game, and its atmosphere and 
 story really set the mood for the game. The basic storyline is that you fight against the Chimera, 
 alien-like monsters who have taken over half the world and humanity is making its last stand in 
 England. The multiplayer is pretty good, although I did experience a lot of connection problems 
 and people really just ended up using the Carbine in multiplayer. 
  
  Graphics: 9.0 The graphics were pretty awesome for this game, and they are still awesome more than 
 two years later!
  
  Gameplay: 8.0 The gameplay for this game was pretty solid and was original enough to make it a 
 unique experience.
  
  Story 9.0 The story was very interesting and engrossing and provided an interesting backdrop for 
 the game. 
  
  Replayability 7.0 There is not a whole lot of replayability for the single player but the multiplayer 
 offers some pretty good fun, although it is not the best.
  
  Overall (Not an average of above scores) : 8.5 This game is a great game for the PS3 and almost 
 a must have for any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beriman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Resistance : Fall of Man was the first hyped up video game that I decided to buy! Before I was not 
 much in to FPS's and I did not buy in to a game that was surrounded by this much hype (and I really 
 did not believe in the hype at all) boy was I wrong! Res. FoM proved to me that I can indeed believe 
 the hype, and it was the game that made me like FPS's! Now to the game! when I started I was immediately 
 blown away by the graphics! (the next gen. of video games has truly arrived!) the game play was smooth, the 
 selection of weapons was growing as U have gotten closer to the finish, the enemy's were bigger 
 and meaner as U proceeded! The whole game was challenging as it was (especially the final chapter) 
 when U played alone that is why the addition of co-up was a fantastic thing! U could now sit down 
 with your friend and play trough the game together our partner up with some one via Internet! When 
 U finally finished the game there was a nice hint after the credits that a second sequel is somewhere 
 out there in the future. (the addition of off our on-line death match was also fun) ! Res. FoM was 
 one of my first PS3 games and it did not disappoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creeping-deth87
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:41 pm PT
Review:  You'd think the realm of science fiction inspired first person shooters didn't have room for another 
 franchise, but you'd be wrong. Insomniac have created a surprisingly compelling shooter without 
 doing anything particularly different from other games in the genre.
  
  Resistance is set in an alternate reality where World War I was followed by a period of economic 
 prosperity and relative peace, inadvertently preventing the Second World War altogether. Other 
 historical differences include a tsarist Russian government that never fell, living well into the 
 middle of the 20th century. Russia adopts an extreme form of isolationism, dressing its borders 
 with a series of fortifications and barriers. In the 1950s, a virus spreads from the heart of the 
 motherland and overruns mainland Europe, turning people into horribly mutated cannibalistic flesh-eaters. 
 No, they're not zombies. Quite to the contrary, the enemies are highly intelligent and very resourceful.
 
  
  You take the role of Nathan Hale, a United States marine sent to England to help bolster the defense. 
 Early on, you are captured and infected with the Chimeran virus. Unsurprisingly, Hale has an innate 
 resistance to the virus granting him superior speed and strength without mutation. Rather than 
 simply giving you a pretext for why Hale can do the things that he does, this infection also works 
 as a major plot element that helps flesh out and advance the story. Unfortunately you never learn 
 much more of Hale. He's pretty quiet throughout the campaign, barely ever saying anything and you're 
 exposed to very little if any backstory into his character. This doesn't hurt the game all too 
 much, but it would've been helped to have a more compelling main character (especially considering 
 some of the things that happen to him throughout the game) .
  
  Resistance will feel immediately familiar because it borrows so much from other games. For example, 
 avoiding hits will regenerate your health much like in Halo. However, your health is divided into 
 four quadrants and avoiding further damage will only recover your strength up to the nearest quadrant. 
 This makes for some incredibly tense moments and vastly different tactics when you're down to only 
 one sliver of your health bar. The standard fare of assault rifles, shotguns and snipers are all 
 present in Resistance, but there are also some very interesting weapons to be found in the game 
 that you couldn't pick out from other games off the top of your head.
  
  For example, the Bullseye is a Chimeran weapon that feels a lot like the pulse rifle from the Halo 
 series. It differs in one very important way. The secondary fire of this gun fires a tag that all 
 of your bullets will automatically home in on when attached to an enemy. This essentially lets 
 you safely hide behind cover and fire into the air and all of your shots will find their target. 
 The Auger, another Chimeran weapon, takes a rather unique approach on bullet penetration. The rifle's 
 rounds pass through almost everything in the game, and do substantially increasing damage depending 
 on how many things they have to pass through. This is great when you're approaching a house you 
 don't feel very good about. Pop out the Auger, sweep it over the house, and you have a very effective 
 means of neutralizing your foes without exposing yourself to counter-attack. The secondary fire 
 emits an energy shield which protects you from all incoming fire, so long as you stay behind the 
 relatively small block it gives you to hide behind.
  
  The weapons feel appropriately powerful, and the Chimeran-inspired firearms in particular lend 
 a bit of uniqueness to the game. In a throwback to Golden Eye and Perfect Dark, Hale is not restricted 
 to only 2 weapons. Your arsenal only grows over time. Every single weapon you find has a use you'll 
 learn to love it for, though you will rely most heavily on the first couple of weapons you start 
 with. You will need to use all of them to effectively put down all of the foes you encounter throughout 
 the game, and there are plenty to be sure. The AI in Resistance is excellent. They will shoot at 
 you from behind cover, flush you out with grenades, and above all they are excellent shots. They're 
 never afraid to beat you down when you're close enough either. Chimera come in a variety of different 
 shapes and sizes, ranging in speed and strength. Every single foe you encounter requires a different 
 strategy to put down quickly, so the action never feels very monotonous.
  
  Later on in the game you are treated to some very engaging firefights that will definitely have 
 you on the edge of your seat. Hale often fights alongside other troops so the sense of scale can 
 be pretty engrossing during some of the battles. Fortunately, the frame rate never even stutters. 
 Even with battalions of enemies thrown your way the action is always super smooth. 
  
  Unfortunately, the environments are probably the worst part of Resistance. Most of the game has 
 you fighting in burning English suburbs, running and gunning from house to house and street to 
 street. Later in the game however the game changes this up with some of the more elaborate architecture 
 of the Chimeran buildings.
  
  Certain sequences will have you driving trucks, tanks, and even Stalkers (Chimeran vehicles) . Evidently 
 in this alternate reality, trucks in the 50s were virtually indestructible. These sequences will 
 undoubtedly remind anyone of driving a Warthog that's actually played Halo, but they're a welcome 
 change of pace to the game's campaign. The vehicles may feel a bit overpowered, but the sequences 
 are so few and infrequent that they don't break the game.
  
  Resistance is a highly polished shooter that borrows a whole bunch from other established franchises 
 in the genre, but its unique setting and deliberate confusion about whether the Chimera are extraterrestrial 
 or simply mutants keep the game interesting. Any shooter fan owes it to themselves to at least 
 give Resistance a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoeJohn531
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  The game started off pretty slow which made me almost not complete it. However I figured that there 
 must be something about the game to keep PlayStation fans raving. The game ended up becoming more 
 and more interesting as I worked my way through it making it less of a been there done that experience, 
 and bringing the game entirely into it's own. The graphics are pretty good for a launch title, 
 and the score is just right. One complaint that I have about the difficulty is that the game was 
 quite easy all up until the second to last level, where a new gun is introduced, and you suddenly 
 are required to use cover if you want to stay alive, whereas you could play almost the entire campaign 
 run and gun. I have played the online portion of this game just a little bit and it doesn't seem 
 quite as forgiving as a lot of other games, I often found myself dying after being hit only once 
 or twice, with little or no heads up that there was another player nearby. However I did end up 
 coming in second place the first game I played online so it must not be that bad. Just remember 
 you arn't playing as bulletsponge, this is slightly more tactical. Bottom line is if you don't 
 like the game the second you pick it up give it a little time and keep working at it because it 
 does get to be much more fun.
  
  -DJ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  The game starts in 1951. You are Nathan Hale, part of an American 5,000 man task force to help 
 liberate Britain from the Chimera. Along the way you are infected by the Chimera's spires. You 
 are the only know human to survive an attack. After being infected, you will be taken aboard a 
 Chimeran conversion center. It is there that you will meet Captain Rachel Parker. She will tell 
 you her radio frequency so she can guide you along on your mission. This is where the real fun 
 starts.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay
  
  Resistance is a lot of fun to play, even though it doesn't really bring anything new to the FPS 
 genre. Though the mechanics of the game are mostly the same, the weapons are absolutely amazing. 
 There are 8 weapons in all for your first go around, and all of them are unique. Along with many 
 different weapons, there are many different types of Chimera.
  
  The game is also pretty intense. It will have you on your toes most of the time just wondering 
 what will happen next. Cut-scenes after every mission really tie the story together, so that is 
 a huge plus. It is definitely not one of those games that you are wondering what is going on the 
 whole time that you are playing it.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are amazing. The level design is amazing along with the stellar character design. 
 They really put a lot of work into making the different types of Chimera unique. Too bad you can't 
 say that for the humans in the game (besides in the cut-scenes) . 
  
  Resistance was a great game to show the world some of the PS3's potential!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Control
  
  As I said before, Resistance doesn't really bring anything new to the FPS genre, although it is 
 surprisingly smooth.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound
  
  The game sounds amazing. The sound effects, as well as the music in the game sound great. The hissing 
 of the Chimera is simply awesome. That being said, the voice-over work could have been better.
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Overall
  
  Resistance is a solid game that will have you coming back for more. It is an awesome launch title 
 that is a must buy in my book.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ps3Hawk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:49 am PT
Review:  
  Resistance: Fall of Man Reviews
  
  efc91
  8.0
  great
  
  .
  
  
  
  
  Bought this game after I heard a lot of hype about it being the PS3 best First person shooter. 
 I bought it for 15 pound and I wasn't dissapointed this was a bargain. The story is my favorite 
 thing about this game the levels are long and challenging with some awesome guns and enemies to 
 shoot there heads off. The story isnt strong but I see it as a fun game that just wants you to 
 shoot the hell out of stuff. Nathan Hale is not a strong protaganist he doesnt say a word through 
 the entire thing dont know why. A lot of people love the online in this I found the maps to be 
 to large and it was hard to get int a decent fire fight. 40 player games should be fun and frantic 
 but I thought it was boring and repeatative. the eight goes to the exciting and entertaining story 
 levels that are all based in my country love it. I dont really play the online. Resistance gets 
 a 8 out of 10 well worth buying for 15 pound might wait for the next one to go to this price aswell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerucho
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is one of the best games for the PS3. Don't be surprised if you wake up 
 one morning and find yourself itching to immerse yourself in this beautifully well laid out game. 
 
  
  One of the challenges, which depend on the player, is finding ammo. I found myself almost out of 
 ammo multiple times in the Single Player Campaign. Especially with the new weapons you get after 
 you beat the game, ammo may become scarce. Don't be discouraged though, because by using more commonly 
 used weapons used by enemies and allies alike, you'll find more ammo lying around.
  
  The locations are laid out exceptionally well and are virtually flawless. If you don't live in 
 Britain, you probably will not recognize any of the places you visit, but that wouldn't matter 
 much considering the Chimera invasion.
  
  Speaking of which, the Chimera are an intriguing enemy. You might find yourself examining dead 
 corpses, examining the detail of enemies and allies alike. The immerse environment and very intelligent 
 enemies go together nearly perfectly.
  
  Unfortunately, your allies are pretty worthless. They are good for attracting attention away from 
 you so so that you have time to recover and reload. Your allies are unintelligent, very weak, but 
 are good when they die because you can pick up their ammo.
  
  The weapons are short and sweet. They all are unique, and very effective depending on the ability 
 of the player.
  
  Sometimes you might find yourself overwhelmed by enemies and unable to progress in the story. But 
 without that there wouldn't be a challenge.
  
  You are very quiet and mysterious. You answer to no one and don't take orders. The story isn't 
 incredibly in depth, but if you pay attention you might pick up a few things.
  
  This game will have you coming back to defeat your enemies over, and over again. The multiplayer 
 is fun and much better than playing with bots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkness7089
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  My profile would prove that I've only ever typed about 360 games, so as the first PS3 game for 
 me to dump any time on, I had high hopes for a a PS3 only game. Unfortunately, Resistance didn't 
 meet up to even half of my expectations. As a Gears of War (1+2) owner, I am setup for high standards, 
 so games like this don't satisfy me that well. Still, I can understand that many people would like 
 the game.
  
  For any Gears of War fan, they won't be too thrilled about the experience that this game provides. 
 Unfortunately most people will only ever touch one console, so if you are with the PS3, you won't 
 experience the 360's higher shooter standards to know what I'm talking about, and if you are on 
 the 360, you probably won't experience this.
  
  There isn't much to say about the story, the world is being attacked by aliens in the 1950s. It's 
 basically as simple as that, and it would be ok, except that it plays out much like Doom. The problem 
 is that you are alone most of the time, and there are almost no story elements, drama, cutscenes, 
 etc, to be had. It's basically mindless shooting from beginning to end with almost the same set 
 of monsters over and over. The story won't grab your interest in even the slightest, it'd help 
 if there was more to it. There are next to no cutscenes in the game, and you are lucky if you are 
 given even the slightest amount of dialogue before spending the next hour or two shooting at wave 
 after wave of monsters that all look and sound exactly the same. In Gears of War, many Locusts 
 looked differently from one another (and allies for that matter) and there were different sounds 
 too. Here every ally looks and sounds exactly the same, as does every enemy. Doesn't anyone else 
 notice these things? Most games at least accomplish the ability to have many different enemies, 
 but that isn't the main problem with the game, its countless other things I will go into detail 
 about. 
  
  The problem I have with running solo in a game is that I am then playing a walking god. In group 
 shooters you must use your team to prevail, which makes you mortal and feel more like a soldier 
 rather than an unstoppable Ultraviolet, Rambo, Alice, [Insert overpowered character here] etc. 
 Although this game does grace you with a few group situations, about 85% of the time you will be 
 all alone, and while alone the immersion fails completely. The second you hit the rare group moment 
 you get excited at the feeling of an actual war going on, but soon enough you are shut off alone 
 to be tormented aka bored by yourself again. It's like torture, the game would have been so much 
 more fun if it group played like other shooters, especially since its trying to fit a war situation. (And 
 you know there is no way your 1950s character could Rambo these advanced aliens all alone)
  
  With most shooters, you get a health regeneration, which is what I actually favor most. It 
 prevents you from having to hunt for item pickups. But this game is just rude about it, giving 
 you a health regen, but only to the nearest 25%. This makes no real logical sense and isn't pleasant 
 every time you get shoot down to 74% instead of 75%. You see, if weakened to 75%, you'll heal back 
 to full shortly, but 1% more and you won't heal at all except to 75%. It makes no sense at all. 
 Even Perfect Dark Zero had a better system, where some damage would heal back while some didn't, 
 that makes far more sense because it doesn't revolve around luck of where you land on. Here it 
 either all will or all won't, based on where its at. 50% will heal to 75%, 49% will only heal to 
 50%. So you'll spend quite a bit of your gametime scouring for health items, and in the games cluttered 
 game world, they are quite hard to find without quite a bit of scouring time. Due to this bad design 
 the game is hard at times depending on how lucky you are with damage. Yes luck is a real factor, 
 since as little as 1% can mean the difference between healing and not healing. You'll find the 
 game flawed sometimes as you succeed one battle and not another simply due to the luck factor forced 
 on you.
  
  The game is letdown further by letting you carry an unlimited number of weapons all at once. Most 
 modern games, which I believe we in general favor, only allow you to carry a few at once. (And I 
 could name a dozen such games) I don't like being able to carry a dozen guns at once. Why? Because 
 then there's no need for responsibility. I'll simply shoot whatever has ammo. There's no drawback 
 for being trigger crazy and blowing your load on every monster when you have ammo for 10 guns at 
 once. Being limited means if I carry a good but ammo limited gun means I also better pack a weaker 
 one with more ammo to make up for it, it might also means that a pistol has a purpose; something 
 else I like to see. (In CoD4 there's a selectable perk that allows you to shoot with it on the ground 
 before dying completely, that's a golden example) Here there's no pistol, but that's beyond the 
 point.
  
  But although you can carry them all at once, there is at least a decent arsenal for you to use, 
 even if it doesn't all fit in a 1950s environment. Your classic machine gun can shoot grenades 
 as a secondary, the alien machine gun is quite different. It packs a tracer as a secondary that 
 causes future shoots to home in on where the tracer hit, assuming it hit an enemy. Another alien 
 gun can slowly move through walls, hitting enemies behind cover. It's annoying to get shot at by 
 it, but since the wall glows as it moves through, you can usually avoid it. This gun also allows 
 you to deploy an energy wall as a secondary, blocking all fire except from this specific gun. (The 
 shield blocks anything that isn't from that gun type, that includes you if you switch weapons, 
 or doesn't include enemies if they are using that gun as well) There is of course a shotgun and 
 Sniper rifle, as well as 1 click grenades that don't require you to "select" them to throw, which 
 is something I kind of require in games at this point. (Even Gears of War failed on that one, both 
 in the original and the sequel)
  
  I suspect what sold the game's high rating was its multiplayer and solid graphics, and I'll admit 
 the game looks and sounds as good as anything else. I will also admit that the entire bulk of my 
 rating comes from its performance and presentation, not much from its game play. I cannot test 
 the games multiplayer, (I don't own a PS3, and was only able to play this offline) but the game 
 has a solid frame rate, and even most intense 360 games I've played drags its frame rate at some 
 point. This game never slowed an inch at any time during its repetitive single player, not through 
 a group of enemies shooting at me, or even explosions.
  
  I never tested its multiplayer, but as a now 30$ sale, its easy to recommend this game for shooter 
 fans despite its flaws if you like hour after hour of mindlessly shooting clones of the same monster. 
 If not, you'll be terribly bored a few hours in. I'd have been more harsh if it was still 2006, 
 but when a letdown doesn't cost 60$, it isn't a full letdown. If you paid 60$ for this, then there's 
 a problem.
  
  Single player:
  (Experience) C (Needs improvement)
  Presentation:
  (Video/Audio) A (Good)
  Performance: Star (Perfect)
  Multiplayer: Unrated 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sgthalka
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:59 pm PT
Review:  Looks can be deceiving when it comes to the PS3's launch "killer app." At first glance, Resistance 
 looks like a fairly run-of-the-mill space marine shooter with lackluster graphics and a forgettable 
 story. But what emerges (quickly) is an extremely challenging FPS that keeps you engaged not through 
 pretty environments or a riveting plot, but tough fights that often require multiple attempts and 
 different methods of attack to figure out how to survive. 
  
  The "easy" difficulty is no safe haven -- this setting is more like "normal" or "hard" in other 
 games. While this may occasionally aggravate players who want a less-intense playthrough just to 
 experience the storyline, it does force you to appreciate the pitched battles and makes you earn 
 (and value) your progress all that much more. Ultimately, it's a more rewarding experience. I've 
 been guilty of using "god" mode or easy settings to get through less-than-spectacular shooters 
 just to see the campaign through, but what happens is you're basically cheating yourself of what 
 makes a shooter worth playing. So a tip of the hat is in order to Insomniac for sticking to their 
 guns and not wimping out too much with the difficulty settings at the risk of watering down their 
 gameplay.
  
  And the gameplay really is the main attraction here. Enemy AI and attack design is generally strong 
 throughout. While the game is a little long in the campaign, enemy variety never feels too repetitive 
 or like you're just slogging through yet another battle.
  
  What ultimately keeps Resistance from rising higher is the extremely bland storyline and forgettable 
 characters. There will be no plot motivation to move forward in the campaign, so you better like 
 shooting stuff. Graphics are also fairly dated. If you've been playing any PC shooters recently, 
 you'll feel like it's 2002 all over again. Level design is fairly compact and Insomniac does an 
 admirable job crafting realistic levels that flow naturally. There's hints of exploration with 
 multiple paths through a level and lots of hidden items and incentivized rewards (concept art, 
 new weapons after multiple playthroughs) , so there is some replay value here if you're so enamored 
 with the game.
  
  Resistance is a solid if unspectacular shooter and a worthwhile playthrough for any PS3 owner. 
 Just don't expect anything too mind-blowing and enjoy the game for what it does well, instead of 
 tearing it apart for its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 7:30 pm PT
Review:  I finally was able to get a PS3 after a couple of years and the first game I got was Resistance 
 Fall of Man and boy was I not dissapointed. This fast paced FPS is filled with alien hoards and 
 decent Boss battles. You play as Nathan Hale of the US Army who was dispatched into Great Britain 
 in order to help them fight off the Chimera infection that is sweeping accross Europe and Asia. 
 Soon after he arrives, all hell breaks lose and the battle starts.
  
  As with a typical FPS, you have your wide selection of weapons that you slowly obtain throughout 
 the game. Each weapon also has a secondary function such as grenade launcher or electric burst. 
 ALL weapons are not available at first, they become available as the game progresses and better 
 weapons are needed for certain missions. The main weapons I used were the Carbine, Lark, Fareye 
 and Bullseye. Other weapons were used as ammo became more readily available. You also have a few 
 grenade options such as Hedgehog and Fuel-air.
  
  The story goes that Hale is infected but does not fall into a coma like everyone else does. He 
 wakes up to find his body is sort of resistant to the infection, but he also becomes stronger and 
 gains a nice healing factor. At this point you can collect yellow containers to heal yourself. 
 Now that he is stronger, he is able to fight off and last against the Chimera whereas everyone 
 else seems to die around him. 
  
  The battlefields all take place in England and are very well detailed. you travel from city to 
 city battling constantly against loads of enemies. The A. I. in this game is great because they 
 always seem to have great aim and even hide when your take aim back at them. Guns and ammo are 
 plentiful as every single enemy seems to drop some. 
  
  The graphics and detailed environments are excellent but the story seems to be lacking some depth. 
 Each time you seem to take 1 step forward in the war, it seems like your then pushed 2 steps back.
 
  
  The gameplay is simple and enjoyable. The weapon selection is fast and easy to master and the battles 
 are usually fast and furious. Occasionally you get help from fellow army personnel but the majority 
 of the time you are on your own. 
  
  Overall this was a great game to play and I can see why it would get good ratings from critics. 
 if you enjoy a ton of weapons with plenty of enemies to kill then this game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is a good game, that borders on greatness. 
  I'll talk about what i like first. THe story is very intersting, in the fact that the alien chimera 
 force invaded and WW2 never happened. The game looks pretty decent also. The game has a good amount 
 of weapons for you to use, but i havent played R2, so i dont know how many weaopons that game has. 
 I love shooting the crap out of aliens that make deranged noises. Trust me you have to hear them 
 to know what i'm talkin bout.
  
  What i dont like is the game is just plain difficult. I am good at shooting games and its still 
 pretty damn tough. Also the missions and game play are very repetive. You just gotta survive and 
 shoot, no real puzzle elements. BUT you end up getting stuck in awkward places in this dark game.
 
  
  Overall i was a lil skeptical at first about buying this game, but its solid overall, and doesnt 
 need much improvement. Online play is vigorous as your human adversaries are pretty tough. I cant 
 wait to beat this and get on with R2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrHyde
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2009 10:25 am PT
Review:  At first glance, Resistance might not wow you. I admit, I wasn't sold on it until I actually got 
 to play for a time. Being a bit of a WWII history buff and understanding the Cold War implications, 
 Resistance brings an excellent mix of real world weaponry and history blended with sci-fi fantasy. 
 
  
  You play as Sergeant Nathan Hale who becomes infected with the virus that mutates humans beings 
 into the enemies, the Chimera. Nathan is mostly a quiet individual for this game as the female 
 narrator does most of the story telling. After World War I, Russia shut itself off until in 1949, 
 the Chimera broke through the wall that the Russians erected and laid waste to Europe. You play 
 in Great Britian trying to stop the invasion. 
  
  Resistance falls into the general area of first person shooters. The controls are the usual, left 
 stick to move, right to look, R1 to shoot, and so on. You have a health system and can find health 
 packets scattered throughout most of the levels. The weapon wheel is probably one of the more interesting 
 things that Resistance has to offer that allows selecting a weapon a rapid and easy affair. I found 
 combat to be pretty even all around, but the only cheese thing that I found was the but of your 
 gun attack which kills most enemies (and in turn allows them to kill you) quickly, more so than 
 good ol' gunfire.
  
  Graphically, this definitely isn't the best the PS3 has to offer. While much of the environments 
 and characters look smooth, they seem to lacking in finer details. I have seen the occasional glitch 
 here and there, but that's exceedingly rare and therefore a blessing. Online the game flows just 
 as good as offline making it enjoyable.
  
  In the area of sound, most of the game doesn't have much depth, but where it is, it's good. Hearing 
 commanders rattle army talk is enjoyable and the female narrators gives a good sense of the situation 
 at hand. However, the Chimera don't seem to have much soundwork to them.
  
  I would say the finer points of the game are the massive online gaming, which encompasses the usual 
 capture the flag, deathmatch, etc., the fact that the main story can played co-op, and that there's 
 some replay value in unlocking additional weapons and finding intel which gives you more information 
 about the mysterious Chimera.
  
  The bad comes down to graphics which seem bland, short main story mode, very few if any boss fights, 
 and the fact that the game just seems to end so anticlimactically thereby leading into the second 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rfull
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is a wonderful game in all. Glitches are rare so it plays smoothly. The 
 story is exciting and makes want to go on your computer and research, but it can be confusing at 
 times. It is an Endless battle for mankind that will blow your mind. The guns sound amazing and 
 you have a good amount at you disposal. fdgdfg gdfg dg dgd gdf gdfgfdg dsfhg dsfghs gsdfhg ugiug 
 hiughidgidshf gidfg dfuig dfgh ufdhguifhg uihguifhg uifgh uifgh iufgh duifghidfug hiufgh idfh gidf 
 ghiufhgu ugfh uf guf huf fu uf uhdufgifu u u fud gufdg dfu iugh uigui ugh dfui ghdifosdf8uerh gehrguregh 
 ughuifh iufgh uidfhg uihgso8igh9s e iueg e9gre9rhgeurhg u8trgu te eu uhuh 7yg 7y g 6t fg6t g6t 
 y7 yuh uh hufyv guhguh bvu fh bklj g gb gyu hg jh jh jh ug hj jh hj hg b hg uytfutgbuffgbuyghbiog 
 i df gdfdg ghr gfh yjt yjterhret ghrd hrg ghr grh ghrghr ghfr fh egfr rgth ryje ytjejtr jrt ryjw 
 ryj ryj jyr yjrtejyr yjrw yjre jyutr yruj yrj jry ry tkyj tyh j jyr jfyh fgr gf gfhfgd hnm, c ilvbhdsz; fjgh 
 udfopgjfd gp [fjg p9gfnjs gsdofgnjkif gstg fgoi fop opfig fs bgdfkgjspodejgsdof sdop ofd ksd sdf 
 f dfgjisdfgk ofojgd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AheronSlave
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 3:27 am PT
Review:  Insomniac Games, creatorii celebrelor serii Spyro the dragon si cu Ratchet & Clank au lansat in 
 2007, cu ocazia lansarii consolei Playstation3, si primul shooter din istoria companiei, fiind 
 de asemenea si primul lor joc "serios" daca putem sa facem asa delimitari.
  Resistance paseste pe scena FPS-urilor moderne cu capul sus, incercand sa se impuna in fata unor 
 mastodonti precum lansarile Half Life 2, Quake 4, Halo 3, Call of Duty si multe alte titluri ce 
 au sarit pe piata in 2007. In multe privinte reuseste sa faca acest lucru prin aceleasi elemente 
 ce au facut din alte shootere succese uluitoare, atat in randul fanilor genului cat si al criticilor 
 de specialitate, si asta in absenta unei originalitati aparte. Nu, R-FoM vine pe piata ca un proiect 
 bine inchegat, echilibrat si finisat.
  
  Povestea jocului te pune in cizmele, inca nepatate de colbul bataliei, ale soldatului american 
 Nathan Hale. Bineinteles ca e un soldat american si bineinteles ca va purta pe umeri greul bataliilor, 
 industria inca nu s-a plictisit de super soldati si nici de lupul oarecum singuratic.
  Singur de cele mai multe ori, Hale va trebui sa infrunte val dupa val de creaturi Chimera, de origine 
 necunoscuta dar care au invadat Rusia in anii '30, iar mai tarziu intreaga Europa, cu origini inca 
 necunoscute, dar cu o tehnologie mult avansata fata de cea a omenirii. Nimic surprinzator pana 
 acum, doar ca al doilea razboi mondial nu a pornit niciodata si nu lupti impotriva invaziei ca 
 aia s-a termiant deja. De acum, ramane doar rezistanta.
  Povestita cu ajutorul unor slide-uri alb-negru si de vocea feminina a incantatoarei sergent Carter, 
 povestea isi face treaba sa te tina interesat de evenimentele de pe ecran. Sunt destul de dese 
 momentele de naratie incat sa nu apara impresia ca doar impusti si impusti fara scop, si totusi 
 prea dese, fragmentand actiune in unele momente mai mult decat inoportune. La asta se adauga si 
 faptul ca personajele nu sunt dezvoltate destul, un final ce promite o continuare conform modei 
 si un intreg fir narativ neexplorat deloc, si cam atat ar fi majoritatea minusurilor pe care le 
 are jocul, pe langa o lipsa crasa de originalitate.
  Ce e foarte interesant aici sunt o serie de plicuri raspandite prin nivele, fiecare fie cu cate 
 o harta, fie cate o insemnare de jurnal, ajutand sa umple cateva goluri din povestea de background 
 a invaziei cat si sa deschida ceea ce cred ca va fi o buna bucata din povestea sequelului.
  
  R-FoM este din multe privinte imaginea unui shooter clasic, cu un gameplay doar derivativ din 
 shooterele moderne. Poti cara in spate un arsenal impresionant de arme, unele originale, altele 
 mai putin, bucati din viata se reincarca trecand peste unele obiecte extraterestre, munita o culegi 
 de pe trupurile inamicilor doborati, si multe altele.
  Am zis inainte in acest articol de lipsa de originalitate a jocului. Intregul gameplay este derivativ 
 din alte surse, precum Call of Duty pentru teatrul de bataliei si coechipierii pe post de carne 
 de tun, Halo pentru faptul ca viata se regenereaza pe portiuni (cadranul de viata e impartit in 
 4 cadranefiecare cadran se regenereaza pana la cel imediat urmator, trebuie doar sa te retragi 
 adesea din linia focului inamic) . Dar in ciuda acestor lucruri, cu ajutorul arsenalului destul 
 de imaginativ si a luptelor adesea provocatoare, precum si faptul ca nu esti totusi Serious Sam, 
 jocul nu are momente in care sa incetineasca substantial sau sa se repeata.
  Varietatea este cuvantul de oridine in cazul bataliilor, un schimb de focuri salbatic putand rapid 
 sa coboare in tempo intr-o plimbare claustrofobica prin niste tunele inguste si de unde auzi cu 
 inima mica un grup de howleri cum se aproprie de undeva din fata. De atmosfera nu duce lipsa Resistance, 
 desi sentimentul de razboi total lipseste oarecum din mare parte a misiunilor ce pot parea usor 
 prea restranse pentru ambitiile jocului. Dar deh, nu putem avea totul totusi.
  Arsenalul ce ne sta la dispozitie este pe atat de variat pe cat e de util. Avand la dispozitie 
 atat arme umane (neexistente de altfel in istorie) cat si extraterestre. De la clasica mitraliera 
 cu lansator de grenade atasat (si sora de sorginte chimerica numita Bullseye) pana la lansatoare 
 de grenade si rachete, pistoale automate, Auger (o puternica pusca a carei proiectile pot trece 
 prin pereti) si multe altele, nu exista situatie careia arsenalul sa nu-i poate face fata.
  De mentionat ar fi de asemenea si cateva portiuni de sofat, unde e fie vorba de un tanc aproape 
 indestructibil, un jeep care chiar e indestructibil (din nou o comparatie cu Halo) sau un robot 
 cuadruped care adauga ceva mai multa variatie actiunii deja destul de variate, rupand totusi monotoniei 
 situatiei de "run and gun".
  Gameplay-ul se mentine fluid si interesant in mare din cauza AI-ul inamic care stie foarte bine 
 sa flancheze, sa se retraga sau sa se ascunda in spatele zidurilor, sacilor de nisip sau in oricare 
 alt loc de unde poate sari pentru rafale scurte sau cate o grenada ce sa te impinga in bratele 
 mai mult decat nerabdatoare a hibrizilor ce-ti asigurau flancul.
  
  Pentru un joc din 2007 si mai ales un joc de lansare pentru PS 3, Resistance arata surprinzator 
 de bine, mentinand un framerate constant indiferent de numarul inamicilor de pe ecran. Pe durata 
 campaniei single-player am intalnit un singur moment in care framerate-ul a clacat sub cantitatea 
 de inamici de pe ecran ce erau aruncati in aer deodata. Un moment prea rar pentru a-l baga in seama 
 de altfel.
  Hartile prin care ne preumblam personajul sunt pregatite detaliat, cu mici chestii care dau savoare 
 precum un salon de biliard abandonat in Manchester sau multe detalii in cadrul bazelor Chimera 
 de genul cadavrelor transportate prin tuburi spre a fi transformate. Desigur, provoc pe oricine 
 sa incerce sa bage o bila la una din mesele alea de biliard, eu am consumat un incarcator facand 
 asta.
  Modele curate si detaliate, un framerate stabil, o variatie destul de mare a peisajelor atat de 
 umane cat si Chimera, toate astea fac din Resistance un joc aratos, desi nu s-ar mai putea zice 
 in momentul de fata sau chiar si la lansare ca ar fi fost ultimul racnet de pe piata.
  Si ca partea tehnica sa fie completa, sunetul jocului nu e nimic de lepadat. Neluand in seama tipetele 
 generice de acum de "For the king and country" sau alte zbierete de groaza in ghiarele mortii ale 
 carnii de tun, restul vocilor si al muzicii sunt potrivite pentru atmosfera jocului, la fel ca 
 si sunetele armelor. Sunt putine lucruri de zis aici de altfel, fiind in mare cam ce te-ai putea 
 astepta din partea unui joc de razboi situat in 1950 dar impotriva unei amenintari inumane. Are 
 sens, nu?
  
  Resistance este un joc ce ar trebui jucat de cei ce pot aprecia un shooter pentru consola, iar 
 pentru detinatorii unui PS 3 cu atat mai mult. O campanie placuta de 10-12 ore, un gameplay foarte 
 bine pus la punct si un aspect impecabil. Jocul ar fi putut beneficia de pe urma unor personaje 
 mai dezvoltate, ca si o poveste mai dezvoltata, dar putem astepta continuare pentru asta, care 
 a si fost anuntata.
  Am inceput jocul asteptandu-ma la un shooter prost, din cauza tuturor influentelor care stiam ca 
 jocul le are. Nu este un shooter prost, chiar dimpotriva, este un shooter deosebit de bun si de 
 distractiv, provocator fara sa devina frustrant, cu destul material bonus care sa te faca sa te 
 intorci la el. Multiplayer-ul am inteles ca suporta pana la 40 de jucatori, deci odata terminata 
 campania single, e o intreaga lume pe internet ce asteapta sa fie macelarita.
  
  
  Grafica: 9
  Sunet: 8
  Poveste: 8
  Gameplay: 10
  Impresie generala: 9
  ------------------------
 
  Medie: 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_woolley
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 14, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is set in an alternate history 1951, and puts the player in the shoes of 
 Sgt. Nathan Hale as he and the human resistance forces attempt to drive a mysterious alien-like 
 invasion out of Britain.
  
  Gameplay  8.5 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a first person shooter and plays like one albeit with a few differences. 
 It runs at a solid 30fps with no noticed dips or spikes all at a native resolution of 720p. It 
 isn't a hard game but the awkward placing of checkpoints can make it frustrating. On average the 
 single player campaign will last you around 15 hours 
  
  Level design is great with varied environments and enemies. While there are in many cases only 
 one way to achieve your objective Resistance: Fall of Man does a great job of making the game feel 
 non-linear. 
  
  The enemies in the game are plentiful and range from small, fast and weak to large, slow and powerful, 
 enemy AI is great as enemies will often use cover and flank you or stay back and lure you into 
 a trap. Just when you feel the enemies are becoming repetitive a new enemy will be introduced and 
 liven the experience up again. 
  
  This game is slightly different than most other shooters in that you have a weapon wheel instead 
 of the primary secondary weapon system, and instead of full health regeneration your health bar 
 is comprised of four individually regenerating bars that once empty cannot be regenerated unless 
 you find a med pack. The game also doesn't feature a sprint function which could come in handy 
 but overall doesn't take away from the experience.
  
  You have your standard set of weapons in this game, assault rifle, sniper, shotgun, rocket launcher 
 and frag grenade which are all found at different stages of the game. But where Resistance: Fall 
 of Man really sets itself apart from other shooters is the added bonus in which you have access 
 to all of the alien weaponry which are also found at different stages of the game.
  
  The weapon wheel makes it so that any type of gun you find you can store and use at anytime by 
 selecting it on the weapon wheel, so by the end of the game you will have access to all 8 weapons 
 at once with more available on your second playthrough. This doesn't make the game to easy though 
 as you'll often only have small amounts of ammo for each weapon. 
  
  The weapons themselves are a lot of fun; the standard set of weapons provides the well known set 
 of thrills and are weighted correctly. There isn't really a look down the sights feature in the 
 game instead you get a zoomed in view of what you already see and while an iron sights type option 
 would be better you'll find you won't be spending much time aiming in. The alien weapons are by 
 far the highlight of the game, all with different uses and effects but all equally impressive. 
 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man has taken old school first person shooter fundamentals that we all know 
 and love and combined them with a set of brilliant weapons, clever enemy AI and a great level design 
 to provide an experience that is a whole lot of fun.
  
  Graphics  8 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man possesses a brilliant artistic direction which foregoes the level of realism 
 found in many current shooters, this makes for fresh look that is almost cartoony but is bleak 
 enough to fit the setting of the game. 
  The levels are varied and are very well designed; massive alien structures coupled with detailed 
 recreations of 1951 Britain create a setting that while could do with some extra colour and definition 
 provide a good backdrop to the game. 
  
  Effects such as weather, smoke, explosions and falling debris are well done and really add to the 
 game. The weapons are diverse and while lacking a little bit of detail provide spectacular visual 
 results when used. 
  Character detail is where this game does shine, for a launch title the amount of detail found on 
 not only your own character but your enemies as well is outstanding. The cut scenes are polished 
 and do well to show off the games engine. 
  
  While the game is not as proficient as others when it comes to technical graphical brawn there 
 is enough detail to immerse you in your surroundings and a great artistic direction to help the 
 game stand out. 
  
  Sound  7.5 
  
  The sound design and features included in Resistance: Fall of Man are great, but in reality the 
 game suffers from a sort of muted tone.
  
  While all the weapons have an individual sound to them none sound as powerful as they should, explosions 
 sound muffled, and there are no obvious sound effects to go along with the weather effects such 
 as the sound of gushing rain or wind.
  
  The soundtrack featured in the game does well to create a mood but often cuts in and out too abruptly 
 which can cause a loss of immersion.
  
  Voice acting is great, whether it be during a cut scene or a call over the radio voices sound realistic 
 to the game and are of high quality. The enemies found in the game all posses a different high 
 quality sound and really can add to the immersion of the game and sometimes even cause a scare. 
 
  
  Overall Resistance: Fall of Man sounds good, it could be great if only it didn't sound so flat, 
 weapons and sound effects are under powered but the voice acting is great. Enemies sound creepy 
 and the soundtrack is well done, but the few problems mentioned keep this game from sounding great.
 
  
  Overall  8 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great first person shooter, the story told mainly through the use 
 of maps and voiceovers is intriguing but not groundbreaking, and at the end you still don't know 
 much about your enemy or in fact your own character. The story does keep you interested though, 
 and coupled with the smooth fun gameplay, artistic direction with outstanding production values 
 and a multiplayer mode that incorporates everything great from the single player experience along 
 with no lag and you sir have got yourself one great game. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NortePadrote
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 11, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  First off Iam not the biggest fps fan. I played the first Halo when it was realease and was bored 
 to death. I never liked it, I played and played it to see what was all the buzz about it but i never 
 liked it. But Resitance is different, its so much more. ITs not boring your oponents are not just 
 easy targets. In my opinion Resistance delivers what I wanted Halo to deliver.
  
  Okay Storyline its nothing special, and alot of people rip on GOW story for being bad, this game 
 is also bad. The plot is simple, WW2 never happen because it Chimera started attacking the wolrd, so 
 basicly were just busy fighting the Chimera than to fight each other. The character you played with 
 is Nathan Hale. Somehow he is special because he survivies an attack when his other buddies dont. Oh 
 yea he is also an AMERICAN. Like I said the story is nothing special.
  
  Okay Gameplay is the best, controls action everything is perfect. To tell you guys the truth I wasnt 
 expecting anything special when I bought this game, cause i never been a fps fanatic and never got 
 into the Halo crazed. Actually like I said before i was bored by Halo. So basicly I thought RFOM 
 was just another boring halo wanna be. But your onto a surprize.
  
  Right off the bat you the you get to play through the action. The ai is not perfect but its great, your 
 enemies are not morons. They will do have some smart responces. Also therye not easy kills, they put 
 up a fight. The thing that made me like this game more that Halo are the enemies. They have diffrent 
 types and diffrent diffuctlys, but what bungie got wrong is that giant dude with the plasma cannon. Yea 
 it was boring just trying to go behind that guys back just to shoot him, boring because it would 
 take more than 10 minutes just to kill that guy. Well Here in RFOM is diffrent they give you a fight 
 but with stragedy this guys are quick kills.
  
  Now the graphics, everybody made it sound like this game was being made for the ps2 because every 
 critic label the graphics terrible for a next gen video game. Well their morons I wonder if they 
 were smoking crack when they were playing the game. The graphics are not terrible, they are next 
 gen. Actually When i poped this game in my ps3 I was expecting Ninja gaiden 2 graphics, now that 
 game was design for last gen consoles. But dont worry this games graphics are good, the enviroments 
 are very detail. The only this that might have cause for moron critics to label RFOM graphics last 
 gen were that characters, they dont have to many facial detail, other than that this game is really 
 a next gen and everything.
  
  Now I havent finish the game, but I dont think it will change my mind about how I feel about this 
 game when i finish it. I dont play multiplayer, and dont want too, but playing the campaign I think 
 multi should be awsome too. I hope my review doenst make me sound like some FPS hater, maybe iam 
 not biggest fan of the genre but iam not a hater. I might not be a Halo tard, but I love the call 
 of duty series and now Resistance. Anybody who has a PS3 should get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Busy_Man123
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is aggressive. And I really like that. There's plenty of action and best of all, 
 it's easily one of the best FPS games I've played.
  
  The story sets in the WW2 Era, but WW2 never happened-an invasion of aliens happened instead. Yeah, 
 the story includes a lot of ideas that most FPS games are using nowdays: Humans vs Aliens. But 
 this one doesn't set in modern time and it gives a lot of backstory. It's a good storyline with 
 some twists.
  
  The Campaign is the heart of Resistance: Fall of Man. It's a good 10-12 hours campaign with plenty 
 of army of aliens to kill. The game is unique for it's exotic weapons. You have a rifle that can 
 "tag" a player which makes your shots homing. You also have a weapon that can shoot through walls 
 and can create cover if you don't have any cover. The game is heavily uses the run-and-gun element. 
 It's best not to play like Call of Duty and play it more like Doom and Duke Nukem 3D. I love how 
 it's influenced by the classic FPS gameplay. There's not a lot of games that are like this nowadays. 
 You have a 4 life bar and if you don't lose any of the life bar, they actually regenerate-which 
 in is influenced by the Halo shield system. You spend a lot of times fighting aliens with guns 
 and sometimes get into other types of aliens. For example: a gargantuan alien with a fire cannon 
 and a Pinky influenced alien. It's fun, it's intense, and the best part of it: it's replayable.
 
  
  Although the online is not really as fun as the campaign. It's more fast-paced though. It plays 
 pretty much like every shooter. However, most custom games are set to 1 shot kill-which isn't really 
 the type of setting you want to play if you're seeking an aggressive game. The ladder has a decent 
 amount of players still playing, but most of them spend their time on Deathmatch.
  
  It's a well made game and it's only 30 bucks. This is a game that deserves to be in your PS3 collection 
 or FPS. Resistance: Fall of Man is a beautiful game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jd_brisson
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Without a doubt, Resistance: Fall of Man is the best FPS that I've ever played. I really enjoyed 
 Killzone for the PS2, especially for its story, but some parts of its gameplay fell a little bit 
 short. Resistance, however, has a unique storyline, excellent gameplay, and an amazing selection 
 of weaponry. I really like the counterhistory story in Resistance, much more so than most FPSs 
 that offer only 'the aliens have invaded' or 'look out for the zombie hordes.' The game also flows 
 well, offering immersive gameplay with good controls. The unique weaponry offers a lot of fun, 
 making the replay value very high, because you have go back through and learn how to master all 
 the weapons. Perhaps my favorite part of Resistance was the Cooperative mode that allowed me and 
 my wife to play the story mode together. It has offered innumerable hours of enjoyable gameplay, 
 and is the best co-op FPS that I've found. (Far superior to games like Rainbow Six...)
  
  Overall and probably needless to say, if you own a PS3, you need this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Ben99_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2009 9:53 pm PT
Review:  this was my first ps3 game to play and I gotta admit that I was hooked from the early stages of 
 this game.
  
  Story: you basically fight aliens that invaded the world and as a US soldier you travel and fight 
 in different parts of Britain and all the levels are scattered in different places in Britain till 
 you reach the Tower of .... ok gotta stop here.
  The story is classic with no novelty in it or twists but it will keep you entertained alon the 
 way.
  
  Gameplay: here is where this games truly shines what with the awesome variety of weapons ( I love 
 sniper) and challenging monsters indeed it is more challenging and that what makes it interesting 
 . When you feel it will get repetitive it gets more awesome.
  
  Multiplayer : if you play the game with a friend it cooperatively you will have loads of fun . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acsguitar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 9:12 am PT
Review:  Some games are Just Fun. This is one of those games. Even though there isn't a massively innovative 
 story, the story you do get is solid enough to keep you interested. 
  
  This game gives you non stop action and a decent, if slightly repetitive, set of enemies. 
  
 
  The guns are wonderfully well thought out and make me long for more. 
  
  The graphics are very good although a bit gland. It feels almost black and white at times. But 
 this is ok.
  
  If you liked the Doom series of games I think you will really like Resistance. It brings no stop 
 action and doesn't apologize for it. 
  
  The Vehicle scenes are a bit annoying and I think they should've been left out. However, this is 
 just a personal preference. 
  
  The bullseye gun is really interesting as you can tag your opponents with a homeing beacon that 
 allows you to blast around corners.
  
  All in all I would recommend this game highly. I really don't have much bad to say about. Its just 
 really fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KeithTobberman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Very well made game. Graphics are solid, frame rate is really nice, and the controls are done beautifully. 
 Great story, and characters. It sucks you right in. After playing through, I felt as if this is 
 the shooter that I have been waiting for. I played through on the MEDIUM setting for difficulty, 
 and it was a little too difficult for me, however, it was a great challenge. I cannot wait to play 
 the sequel which just came in the mail today right before I finished the first one. I highly recommend 
 this game to anyone into sci-fi stuff, first person shooters, or both. I am completely hooked and 
 love this game. Another great surprise for me was the overall length of the game. The single player 
 campaign, if I had to guess, took me somewhere around 15 hours to complete, this is a nice relief 
 from some shorter shooters released lately. Also, I have just touched upon the online feature and 
 it seems equally solid. 8.8/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamernut
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistance has you controlling Nathan Hale as he fights through hordes of the alien-like Chimera. 
 The single player campaign is great fun and has some nice graphics. The online play feels kind've 
 lifeless compared to Resistance 2's great multiplayer, but it is still pretty fun. But none of 
 the modes in this game compare to the game's amazing cooperative play. It is the story play but 
 allows you to experience t with a friend. It really is top-notch action that keeps you pumping 
 aliens full of lead all day. There are some frantic moments in the game that remind me of a survival 
 horror game but otherwise it should be considered a sci-fi shooter. Although the cooperative play 
 is fantastic, i wish you could drop in and out of the game without turning the game off so the 
 other player could continue playing. Other than that, Resistance is a sweet game that you will 
 remember for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arrancar6
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 13, 2009 7:40 am PT
Review:  Resistance gives PS3 owners a reason to boast. This great shooter deserves to be mentioned with 
 the best shooter ever. First and foremost this game sports some of the best graphics that been 
 seen up to date. But after the pretty exetior lays a great shooter. A total of 8 weapons add enough 
 variety that you're not always using the same weapon. A soild story helps you to keep playing. 
 the story revolves around a virus infected group of aliens that try to enslave the human race and 
 its you're job as Nathan Hale to prevent that. The character animations and voice acting is top 
 notch. The only downside to the game is that the campaign only lasts about 10 hours. But good multi-player 
 adds good re play ability. PS3 owners have no reason to not pick this game. please support the 
 good people at sony so that the PS3 can last for 10 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lionheart377
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:21 pm PT
Review:  This is one game that I heard very much about when people talked about the ps3, and now I see why. 
 When I picked this up as my second ps3 game, I was floored by the attention to detail and the sheer 
 scope of the battles. There was so much happening at once, and even though the situations seemed 
 bleak there was always a way out of them. The gun are very fun to use and are very responsive, 
 and the story is very interesting, but I personally was not a fan of the way it was told though 
 pictures. I loved the fast paced online play and I still play this game today. The Visuals are 
 very crisp and clear and it shows off the power of the ps3. Also, this game is tough, and I must 
 say that I had some trouble getting though it on the medium diffuculty. Still, I would suggest 
 this game to any fps fan and any owner of a ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatal-Chaos
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:08 am PT
Review:  You start this game as Nathan Hale who is an American soldier. The whole of Russia is infected 
 with Chimera, which are humans who have been changed into these aliens and the virus has spread 
 all over Europe where they are currently holding it off in Britain. Early in the game USA send 
 troops into Britain to help them out, you get infected with the Chimera virus, luckily you have 
 a natural resistance to it and embellish some of the Chimera features such as health regeneration.
 
  
  Nathan Hale is the only USA soldier to survive, but as stupid as that sounds, this game gives a 
 reason to why you have survived all this time, he has Chimera blood in him, so he can regenerate 
 his health, so this isn't a typical run and gun shoot them up FPS and somehow come out alive. Despite 
 this health regeneration, this game is still a challenge, it will require you to duck for cover, 
 and work out strategies on how to come out alive. You also can't regenerate all your health back, 
 only 1 bar if it's not completely gone down, and it's not like there's health capsules every 100m, 
 so you have to be careful in how much hp bars you lose, there are 4 in total.
  
  In Resistance there is a great variety of guns, allowing you to carry all of them on you at all 
 times. There are also a decent range of enemies to kill, even though you mainly fight the same 
 ones it makes sense when it comes down to it, and they still provide a challenge to kill. Resistance 
 has some stunning visuals as well, and with elusive types of levels it provides a range of details 
 to look into. Not to mention Resistance holds some spooky moments that will keep you on the edge 
 at times, giving you even more suspense through the game.
  
  If you're looking for a great shooter on the PS3 you won't find a more structured, entertaining 
 and elusive game then Resistance: Fall of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:30 am PT
Review:  Usually, consoles owners have to wait for a long time to get their first high quality killer app. 
 But the PS3 owners were in for a surprise. They got their first killer app on the very first day. 
 And the PS3's first must-have title was also one of its best. With all the elements that a gamer 
 would dream of in a game- and doing it very successfully (combining all of them isn't a very easy 
 job) - a brilliant storyline, great character developmeent, spectacularly crafted gameplay, some 
 new great gameplay ideas implemented brilliantly, if not perfectly, a revolutionary presentation 
 style, and a spectaular sound track- this game easily scores high on the top 10 list of every gamer. 
 You couldn't possibly NOT like this game. Every gamer, be it a Ratchet and Clank lover, or a die-hard 
 Call of Duty fan, will immediately fall in love with this game. 
  
  The same happened to me. As soon as I had a look at the intro movie and played about thirty minutes 
 of the game, I fell in love with it. I loved EVERYTHING about it. Everything. The gameplay, the 
 sound, the brillaint range of weapons, the compelling storyline, the spectacular presentation style 
 (sorry, I know I've said that before.) ... everything was perfect. I was about to give a perfect 
 score to that game at that time. But at that time, I was too lazy. And now, I can properly review 
 the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY: The game has a gameplay combination of Call of Duty and Ratchet and Clank (yeah, you 
 read that right) . First of all, let me explain my R&C statement. It has many Ratchet-ish variety 
 of weapons, which, because of the dark visuals and the story and the dark environements, look very 
 advanced and serious (?) . Whether you're wielding the game's first weapon or its last, there's always 
 a new gun to shoot or a new tactic to try out. Just a few examples of what players can expect: 
 A sniper rifle that can slow down time named L23 Fareye, cannons that shoot needle-like subsonic 
 bolts which bounce off surfaces named XR-005 Hailstorm, and a mine-launcher that shoots organic 
 slime bombs that can be detonated remotely as makeshift plastic explosives. There are more than 
 a dozen different weapons like these in all. 
  
  The game has great AI. They often take cover and pop up to shoot or they may attack at you when 
 you may not be seing. Though sometimes, they just stand there, looking mean and screaming at you 
 until you shoot them. 
  
  Insomniac have spent a lot of time on planning the controls of the game- and it shows. The controls 
 are very sharp and responsive. All of gotta do to change your weapon is press R2. Also, Insomniac 
 have done a great job with the SIXAXIS. To bring the map up, all you gotta do is tilt your SIXAXIS 
 controller to the left and to check the multi-player stat screen, tilt your controller to the right. 
 
  
  Also, when one of your enemies is grabbing you to attack, all you gotta do to break free is shake 
 your controller like a maniac. 
  
  In short, the gameplay is very spectacular and worth playing. Every gamer should experience it.
 
  
  STORY: I don't want to reveal anything about the story as that would spoil a lot of fun. But let 
 me give you a brief synopsis. Its July 1951 and the European continent is under control of the 
 alien species of the Chimera. Originally having conquered Russia in the '30s, the bizarre alien 
 race has moved westward to infect the entire European continent with a virus that transforms its 
 people into ugly gun-wielding monsters. Sure World War II never happened, but humanity's cities 
 still fell- replaced by the rubble of what came before it and giant tower-like structures of unknown 
 origin. In the midst of this mess players assume the role of Sergeant Nathan Hale, a kick ass American 
 soldier that joined Britain's final defense effort. But what secrets is Hale hiding and more importantly, 
 what Chimeran secrets will he help the British uncover?
  
  And so begins the impressive story of one of the best shooters ever. Even though its not very great 
 and its nothing to hold in our memories as one of the greatest stories ever, it still is a spectacularly 
 crafted story and it looks even better when shown via one of the best cutscenes in any game for 
 a long time. 
  
  The atmosphere of the game, throughout, is so dark and brilliant, that you might sometimes be depressed 
 after a long session of the game.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics of the game, even though not the most impressive ever, are very sharp and 
 fine and add even more value to every aspect of the game. 
  
  SOUND: The game has a very brooding soundtrack and fits almost every situation perfectly.
  
 
  All in all, this is a very brilliant game and one of the best shooters I've ever played. If tyou're 
 looking for a heck of an experience, do not look any furhter- this is the game for everyone. NO 
 gamer should miss an experience as rounde and spectacular as this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebigdude44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  I recently reviewed the PS3 darling, Resistance 2. For those who haven't read the review, I gave 
 the game a 9.5, calling it one of the best shooters ever. Immediately afterward, I decided I should 
 review the first Resistance, Fall of Man. The launch title, like its sequel, didn't always get 
 the love it deserved. While Resistance 2 is an improvement over the original, Insomniac's first 
 major step into the FPS genre is still worthy of recognition. So travel back to 1951, in England, 
 to be exact, and prepare for the dark story of the Chimeran invasion.
  
  Today, Resistance: Fall of Man's graphics are obviously no longer the cream of the crop. Yet even 
 after 2 years, there are still little things that impress. The battles have tons of enemies and 
 explosions on the screen at all times, and the frame rate is stuck at a solid 30 per second. The 
 environments are bit monochrome, but that actually works to the story's advantage because it adds 
 a creepy, alien asthetic. The sound is also nice, providing you with some realistic weapon sound 
 effects and decent use of the Doppler effect (sounds far away sound quieter) . The original musical 
 score, is still great by 2008 standards.
  
  The gameplay is also more interesting than Resistance 2. While the sequel has more of Insomniac's 
 crazy weapons, Fall of Man has its fair share, and it has the traditional, regenerating health 
 meter that is seperated into 4 parts. When one fourth is lost, it can't be regenerated uless a 
 stray health tube is found. You can also hold every weapon you have found throughout the game at 
 once, rather than the traditional hold 2 and find replacements idea of COD, which Resistance 2 
 emulated. the zoom aim is mapped to R3, and the crouch/go prone is mapped to L2. The alternate 
 fire is mapped to L1, and after that, all of the major gameplay elements are the same as COD. The 
 game is made better by the intelligent AI, which provides you with a fairly unpredictable opponent, 
 just like in Resistance 2.
  
  Value is pretty high here. What you get is a single player campaign that is very well designed, 
 and you also get well designed, 40 player multiplayer. The servers aren't quite so dedicated anymore, 
 but 15-20 player matches are still abundant and fun, especially considering the excellently designed 
 maps. The same experience is open to 4 players offline, and it is nothing to sneeze at. You can 
 also play the same single player campaign on 2 player coop mode with a firend. And because of the 
 game's age, you get it for only $30. It is safe to call that a steal.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great game. Had I reviewed it at launch, it would have gotten a 9 
 out of 10 at least. Obviously, 2008 standards are higher, and with the sequel kicking up dust, 
 I can't praise it as much. Still, it is a must play game for PS3 owners and FPS fans, and I highly 
 recommend you buy it, especially at the bargain price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bonthan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:40 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on the day i got ps3 with oblivion and cod4. I love the story line and the sci-fi 
 shooter genre but this game, while very good at times, has many flaws. 
  The graphic is decent, but far from being comparable to other ps3 games. In my opinion, resistance 
 and turok have the worst lighting in the ps3. The game suffers from serious lack of color, while 
 the game is supposed to look this way, gamers might feel bored looking at it after a couple of 
 hours.
  The game usually doesn't have the feel of battle even though some of the bosses and battles are 
 really intense because most of the time you play all by yourself with no allies. The game also 
 lost its epic sci fi feel after the first few levels. At first, you see weird structures planted 
 on the ground and aliens running everywhere trying to kill you, but in the middle and kindda toward 
 the end you go deep into tunnels all by yourself (this can be sometimes intense) , combatting repetitively 
 enemies over and over. AI is very mediocre as sometimes your enemies just stand at a distance waiting 
 to be shot at.
  The cutscenes and story telling is horrible. Instead of getting great animations at the beginning 
 and end of the missions telling how the story progresses you get to see paintings and a female 
 narrator.
  Overall I give this game an 8.0 simply because i love sci-fi shooters, without the story line and 
 setting, this game is just a below average action shooter where you can dodge enemies' bullets 
 and the graphics is not eye-pleasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxlive1000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 2:48 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man exclusive on the playstation 3 and also a launch game for playstation 3 
 and arguably still one of the best ps3 games you can get STILL in the shop and is 10-20ex.
  
  ok firstly i will start with the good side of things 1. it has one of the best online games 
 for the ps3 next to warhawk and mgs4 with a very detailed ranking syteme and offline spiltscreen 
 2 players and fairly long campigan BUT WITH NO ONLINE SPILTSCREEN campign ! but does have a 4 player 
 versus mode with qite alot of maps offline and online. ps no 2player spiltscreen mode online i 
 dont think so.
  
  i give this game a 8.5 out of 10 and is a must buy for any ps3 owner.
  
  MUST BUY :) I GIVE IT A smily face.
  
  ======================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================== 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicBalla
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is actually one of the first shooting games I've ever owned. I believe 
 its the third one. Out of the 3 I've enjoyed it the most. With that said its my favorite shooting 
 game... Here's why....
  
  The Gameplay in Resistance is pretty good and feels right. When I say that I mean that the control 
 layout fits with what you want. R1 to shoot, X to jump, O to throw a grenade, and so on. The monsters (Chimera) 
 are pretty cool and have a great A. I so at times they will give you a good fight. There are some 
 really bad Glitches that pop up only once in a while. One of them is that for some reason your 
 character (Nathan Hale) gets stuck in areas being unable to move, the only way out is to kill yourself 
 unless you want to start the whole mission over, killing yourself would put you in your last checkpoint. 
 Another one was that the Chimera were sometimes going through the walls so when that happend I 
 couldn't kill them but they still could've shot at me. Its no big deal though really, these things 
 only happend to me like 4 or 5 times.
  
  The Graphics are good. The skies could have used more colors.... its always gray. The Chimera look 
 great as do the people. Environments are okay and when I say that i mean the objects like in a 
 playground look authentic while things like grass and trees could have looked better.
  
  The sounds are pretty good. Sometimes I laugh at the sounds the Chimera make because at times its 
 so quiet and there voices just comes out of no where. The Guns sound realistic, the voice acting 
 is well down, and moving through grass and hardwood floors sounds realistic.
  
  The value of this depends on you the buyer. The game came out in 2006 so I don't know if there 
 is still people playing online with this, especially since Resistance 2 is out. The story will 
 take about 6 to 8 hours to complete and you have the option to replay it on a easier or harder 
 setting with new weapons.
  
  EXTRA: According to most Reviewers the story was pretty crappy, well here's my take on it. I found 
 it okay. The Developers though should've explained almost everything more. How did the Chimera 
 land on earth and Why?, Why isn't Hale infected by the Chimerans? While following the story these 
 are the questions you will ask yourself. So overall with the story it was okay but needed to be 
 developed more.
  
  In conclusion to all this. I say this game is worth buying especially if you intend on buying Resistance 
 2 and Resistance: Retribution. I think you will enjoy its originality and great controls. Whatever 
 it is that you like in shooters this will provide you with what you want.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hostilesoul_69
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 8:05 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a Sci-Fi First Person Shooter taking place in the late 1940's. Instead 
 of a WWII, Earth was in store for a worse fate: we were invaded by space creatures called Chimaira 
 which were, let's say, hostile to say the least.
  You play the role of Nathan Hale, an American soldier that was dispatched to Great Britain to fight 
 alongside british troops.
  During most of the game you will be fighting by yourself, as most of your war companions eventually 
 die in battle.
  All the game takes place in GB, from Grimsby to London, passing through cities like Manchester 
 and Sommerset.
  Your mission will be to prevent Chimaira from reaching their goal: to conquer Earth and extinguish 
 human race.
  As you will eventually find out, some of the Chimaira are no more no less than humans, who were 
 killed and converted to Chimaira.
  At the end of each level, you will be presented with cutscenes that narrate, in the future, how 
 the story took place. You will be lead to the conclusion that yourself became infected with Chimaira 
 virus, but your organism resists the infection; bottom line, instead of turning into one of them, 
 you get stronger.
  The story ends in Chimaira Tower, were you will be fighting the Chimaira's masters: the "Angels". 
 As the tower explodes, with you in it, nobody knows if Nathan Hale survived or not... With the 
 explosion of the tower, Chimaira throughout GB perish, but the rest of Europe remains occupied 
 by these creatures.
  Let's talk a little bit about the gameplay itself...
  This game has a very good gameplay for a console fps... At the beggining, you may have some difficulties 
 adjusting to the aiming and weapon swapping, but in a matter of 1-2 hours you'll turn into an expert.
 
  Both the graphics and sound are good, but with space for improvement. The story itself brings 
 nothing new to a sci-fi fps, but it is still a blast to play.
  Overral, I rate this game 9.0 because it is a really immersive storyline and the gameplay is also 
 very nice; it simply glues you to the screen. I really enjoyed this game, and I hope you do too. 
 A must have for PS3 - Classic!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FLYEboi50
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It's fun, exciting, and yes it's pretty hard sometimes.
  
  For starters the story mode is really easy yet aggrivating sometimes. You will die constantly from 
 the hordes of enemies firing at you from plenty different directions. It gets some getting used 
 to but this game will grow on you. You will progressivly get better and so will the story. Oh yeah, 
 it's a long story mode too. Really long.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. Next-gen graphics not necessarily jaw-dropping.
  
  The thing 
 I like most about this game is the multiplayer. It is by far one of the best multiplayers in a 
 game i have ever played. The weaponry is great. All types of weapons and a great variety. 
  
  Well that's all there really is to this game. Great multiplayer and story missions. I assume 
 its really fun to play the story with a friend. I haven't done it yet but I really do l love this 
 game. Resistance 2 is next up for me in games soon to come to my collection. And from most of the 
 reviews I have heard it is much improvement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Previously the developers of Spyro the Dragon and the Ratchet and Clank series, Insomniac takes 
 its first swing at the first-person-shooter market since 1996. Resistance offers an intriguing 
 view of the world if events were different, and contains a appropriately visceral and brutal gameplay.
 
  
  Resistance takes place in an alternate reailty where World War II never occurred. In time of great 
 political friction, abruptly a powerful but monstrous race of creatures ravaged plant Earth. With 
 the majority of Europe and Asia conquered, these beasts, named Chimera set their eyes upon the 
 United Kingdom. This is where Nathan Hale comes in.
  
  A man of few words, Nathan Hale's actions speak much louder than his words. As an American soldier, 
 Hale is sent into the forefront of the heated battle in the UK as support. Hale blasts his way 
 through the streets of England to behind the enemy lines in an attempt to survive and turn the 
 tide of the losing war. 
  
  The story is told from a different perspective, from a fellow officer that Hale briefly interacts 
 with. The narrative is simple and easy to follow, but no real emotional path is gained as the narrator 
 cannot get into Hale's head and knows little about the Chimera. The lack of a strong narrative 
 is greatly compensated by intense action. As it slowly builds pace, the plot takes Hale from massive 
 Call of Duty-esque battles in busted up city areas, to the solo strikes at the heart of the Chimera's 
 chasm.
  
  The uninteresting story and characters becomes a moot point as Hale destroys Chimera by the hundreds. 
 Vehicular combat against Chimeran giant spiders and others is particularly satisfying. A bit of 
 the Chimeran background is learned as the story unfolds. But the lack of Hale's character developed 
 injures what could have been a top notch campaign.
  
  Resistance is an unusually fast paced first-person-shooter, comparable to the Halo games. Chimerans 
 are great shots, and most of the combat's time will be spent running-and-gunning, with a great 
 importance placed on cover. Resistance also employs a slight twist on the traditional regeneration 
 health system. The health bar is divided into four quarts, which automatically recharge up to the 
 nearest quadrant if conflict is avoided long enough. The meter can only be filled with health kits. 
 When health is low, battles can become frantic, adding painful difficulty, especially in the later 
 stages of the games.
  
  In addition to the campaign is the superior multi-player mode. Once players adjust to the blistering 
 pace, there are massive 40 player battles that can be waged on a variety of maps. Playing multi-player 
 allows the choice of human or Chimeran soldiers, both whom play fairly differently. Human's gain 
 the ability to sprint, as well as the access to on-screen radar. In retrospect, Chimeran's are 
 larger targets, and have no radar, but may choose to enrage at the touch of a button. This temporary 
 buff increases speed, strength, toughness and allows Chimerans to see through walls.
  
  Resistance compensates for its lack of a strong narrative with a powerful and intense multiplayer. 
 Satisfying frag-fests on 40 player maps is possibly the greatest perk of all. One of the console's 
 greatest launch games, owners of the PlayStation 3 have more than enough reason to rejoice. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:21 am PT
Review:  What really got me interested with this game is the box-art. But, upon the start of playing it, 
 I got a little disappointed (compared to CoD 4, which was my first FPS for my PS3) , was starting 
 to tell myself "this is it?" and wondering why gamespot gave it an 8.6 but as I play along, I 
 found myself slowly getting sucked into the game and blasting the hell out of the chimeras with 
 different kind of weapons and explosives. Now I'm convinced that this is a pretty good game good 
 enough to make me decide to get Resistance 2. The story is not deep, but not so weak as what others 
 say. Resistance: Fall of Man is a great shooter. PS3 owners should get this game, especially now 
 that it's included in the greatest hits range big savings for a game with great value. One of 
 the great PS3 exclusives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yalim93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  
  Light side: Fps, great multiplayer, long single player campaign, perfect story and great graphics.
 
  
  Dark side: NO physic engine, world war 2 (again) , quiet character, not good puzzles.
  
  Some of the missions are very hard but the game is easy (not multiplayer, it is hard) And there is 
 NO puzzles at all. The all thing you must do is kill that chimera, run, fire, take cover, oh God big 
 guy is coming kill it with your bazooka... But this things do not make this game very bad.
  
  The weapons are great. My favorite is bullseye II. The life system is bad because it is not realistic. Bombs 
 are amazing, like hedgedog. t can kill 5 Chimera in one shot.
  
  Vehicles are perfect. n multiplayer they rock. Because while  am driving and crushing 
 chimeras, my friend uses the gun turret and kills other chimeras. But the other guy that sitting 
 next to me does nothing. Just sitting relaxing. (by the way the other MPORTANT characters cannot 
 be killed but soldiers can be)
  
  Well it is the first game I played on PS3. But it is the best game on PS3  have ever played. (For 
 now) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Monstar23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a good game that is fun to play and will have you at the edge of your 
 seat with the amount of action that this game pumps out. In Resistance you play as Nathan Hale 
 and you basically fight Chimera and try to rescue Britain from almost sure annihilation. The thing 
 that I love most about this game is that at all times you will be shooting at someone or something. 
 There really is no down time in this game, so you better take your breaks when the chapters are 
 loading or during cut scenes because there are no breaks while in the game. I also liked the weapon 
 selection of the game, a lot of fun guns make your decision of how to kill a certain enemy that 
 much more interesting and fun. While this game does have a lot of upside, it does have some glaring 
 issues. My main problem with the game is that you never really grow attached to the main characters, 
 nor does the idea of the world being overtaken by the chimera and you are it's last hope hit you 
 at all, and I blame that on the way they presented the characters. Another problem that I had with 
 the game was that there are few checkpoints were the game saves your progression that at times 
 if you die you literally may have to go back about ten minutes into the game because you didn't 
 reach the checkpoint, and trust me there is a certain part in the game where you will encounter 
 this problem and just find yourself turning of the game and giving it a rest until tomorrow, or 
 just slam your control on the floor. In the end Resistance: Fall of Man is a good game which I 
 would recommend every one to buy and have a blast with because this game is just good ol' plain 
 fun. Resistance: Fall of Man is a must own for every PS3 owner. 
  
  P. S. Resistance 2 is out now, and I would suggest playing this one first and then picking up R2. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkan119
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 6:09 am PT
Review:  When I bought the PS3, I was a huge FPS fan so I thought I'd get this game. It is nothing short 
 of amazing. Insomniac sure knows how to make a shooter.
  First, graphics were simply f****** brilliant. There is no other word for it. 
  none of the other 
 shooters have thought of many of the things that this game has. The weapons are so original, for 
 example a machine gun that can track it's target with alternative fire. Insomniac have also done 
 the sounds when they fire (and when they hit their targets ) really well. The weapons are loud, 
 horrific and simple to use, in spite of the fact just about every one of them has an alternate 
 fire. The difficulty settings are perfect: exactly what they say on the tin, easy, normal, hard 
 and once you complete hard mode, superhuman. The campaign mode is about fifteen hours of gameplay, 
 so it keeps you going for quite a while. There is also a co-op mode, so thats good.
  The multiplayer is good, there are always plenty of people online ( even now resistance 2 is out 
 ) there are 3 different types of matches: free-for all, team deathmatch and team objective. All 
 you need. As far as I can see, there is really only one drawback to this game. That is the theme. 
 Hundreds of websites have said it is a perfect combination of science fiction and WW2. Don't be 
 fooled. All insomniac has done is taken an alien invasion atmosphere and said that the game is 
 set in 1951. There are no world war 2 weapons, places or environments. Aside from that, this game 
 is worth buying a PS3 for. If you're an FPS fan, have a PS3 and haven't already got this game, 
 I recommend ordering it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  Having heard the RAVE reviews about Resistance 2, I thought I'd check this one out first. As a 
 whole, I'd say my opinion is decidedly mixed.
  
  1. Graphics: The graphics probably have a "love 'em or hate 'em" quality, which coincides with 
 what I've read so far. There's a sepia (antique) quality to the game. It makes for not-so-scary 
 virus/creature things, but a decent atmosphere for World War II-style fighting.
  
  I for one somewhat like the grainy photo cutscenes thusfar. Again, it's a personal opinion thing. 
 Hard to say "definitely great" or "definitely poor," on the review of graphics. I haven't had any 
 framerate issues or noticed any pixellation or blocky characters, always a good thing. Seems like 
 something you shouldn't have to mention in NextGen consoles, but it shows up quite a bit.
  
  2. Sound: The sound is all it needs to be, in my opinion. There's nothing that has stood out 
 as terribly weak or ridiculous sounding. The weapon sounds are very good. I'm not a big fan of 
 the "alien-grunt" technique, where the bad guys essentially make some kind of sound to alert you 
 to their presence. It's too much of a Shooter For Dummies technique for me.
  
  3. Gameplay: All you'd expect from a shooter I guess. Not terribly inventive or ingenius if you've 
 played a whole bunch of shooters. On the other hand, if you just really enjoy shooters, this is 
 right up your alley. I'm still not sure that the PS2/PS3/XBOX controller is very conducive to the 
 First Person Shooter as opposed to the PC mouse/keyboard combo (if you're an expert at that.) But 
 again, that's personal preference issues. 
  
  The game offers controller mapping of functions, as a game SHOULD, in my opinion. Nothing worse 
 than getting stuck with a bad layout on a game and having no way to fix it. That's a plus. 
  
  Also, the tutorial is uninvasive, to the point and short, which I prefer. Some games lose all 
 replayability because of too-long tutorials that are unskippable.
  
  I haven't personally used the Coop Or Multiplayer as of yet, but was happy to see Co-op as an option. 
 I'm an old-school DOOM player, so I've missed that aspect of FPS games.
  
  Overall, I enjoy this game. It's not a walk-in-the-park snoozer, I've died a few times. I'd recommend 
 it for anyone who likes to shoot at things and blow stuff up. :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: saheedabdool
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is way better than halo 3. The graphics are great (not amazing) and the gameplay is awesome. 
 You really get the massive war experience with this game. What I believe makes Resistance amazing 
 is its tight and seemless controls. Nothing is frustrating, I enjoyed this game from the beginning 
 to the end. Not the greatest story line, but good nevertheless. Online multiplayer is also good, 
 1 to 40 people online is impressive and after experiencing the online multiplayer, it is virtually 
 lag free. Don't expect Call of Duty 4 quality of online play, but for a launch title, this game 
 really surpassed my expectations! Resistance was definitely a great start to the exclusive library 
 that Sony offers for their Playstation 3 entertainment system. This game has the ability to be 
 turned into a trilogy or more. Like I said earlier, this game is better than Microsoft's "blockbuster" 
 series, Halo 3. The gameplay is just better and the graphics put Halo 3 to shame. So if you are 
 fortunate enough to own a ps3, buy this game and then buy it's sequel Resistance 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draknaar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  It is the first game I bought with my first PS3 and let me tell you, it just blew me away. The 
 storyline is genius and one of a kind, reliving the 1900s without the world wars? Great idea! Sure 
 it is a bit patchy and doesn't explain much about the background but it tells you everything you 
 need to know to play the game and lets your imagination do the rest!
  
  The game play is amazing too. It's quick and easy to get used to, although I often make the mistake 
 of lobbing a grenade instead of crouching because I'm used to Call Of Duty, but that is my own 
 fault! The vast range of enemy units, as well as the detail put into them, is great to see in a 
 game such as this, I get bored if I fight the same thing over and over again! But in this there 
 is a wide mix in each level.
  
  The many many guns you can get are a thrill too, and their secondary fire capabilities, from tagging 
 the enemy so all your bullets hit them, to shooting through walls, to stopping rockets in mid-air 
 and re-aiming them! There really is so much to do! The vastness of some of the boss battles amazed 
 me too, some of them are huge!
  
  Then we get onto the online play, one of the funnest online games I've ever played. There are so 
 many different awards to recieve and you can gain ranks to help ugrade your appearance and accessories. 
 Then you have the different game modes, like your standard Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, but 
 you also have few objective matches too!
  
  This game is a brilliant one, and for anyone who hasn't played it, I recommend it strongly as it 
 is hours of fun and you will not regret the purchase!
  I rate this game very highly, and it is still one of the best games in my collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Revanant101
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Good shooter game and excellent at the co-op campaign but nevertheless it
  being ranked in the greatest hits isnt a fluke or anything it is a really great game and i recommend 
 buying it and playing it.
  This is another reason you should get the Ps3 opther than Resistance Fall of Man 2 coming out so 
 get the game you wont regret it you'd probally spend 10 Hours or less on this game best yet the 
 fighting of the game is one word: AWESOME!
  
  The game is funner in co-op in my opinion but challenging on single because of the backup you'kll 
 need on some diffculties and situations also the Monsters in this game have good AI so dont fright 
 good graphics everything you would want in a shooter game
  Your gonna have mixed reactions but mostly good ones
  
  
  
  
  
  
  Get the game get 
 a second PS3 remote invite a friend play for a couple of hours and have a great time the Thirty 
 levels should keep you busy satisfied and fruterated at some points because it does get hard at 
 some points 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a7473
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  The game Resistance: Fall of Man is very unique in terms of the FPS genre. Let me start of by saying 
 that the campaign is great. It is full of mystery and tons of suprises in the form of nifty little 
 pieces of intel scattered & hidden throughout the levels. The story telling is pretty good. The 
 game can be frusterating, excellent, and just damn scary at times. The only problem I had with 
 the campaign was it didn't thoroughly explain the backstory of the game very well. It also just 
 kind of drops you in there on the first level. Also, Sergent Hale doesn't seem to have any squadmates, 
 it may not matter but it would have added to the story a little bit. The Co- op it what a lot of 
 other games did it just dropped you into the single player campaign. I thought it did a good job 
 in terms of gameplay. Now on to the multiplayer! It is a truly challenging experience. Insomniac 
 has made some cool ways to kill people. My personal favorite is the Target- Bomber, this is where 
 if you throw a grenade very close to someone it automatically explodes, kills them, and sends them 
 flying. Get enough levels and you will earn some cool skins. You can also earn skins by completeing 
 harder modes of the campaign and earning skill points in single player. Overall the game is avery 
 fun one and anyone who has a PS3 must get it. It is an essential part of any PS3 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canana
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:06 am PT
Review:  Resistanceis a first-person shooter developed by Insomniac Games and produced by Sony Computer 
 Entertainment. Thegame takes place in an alternative narrative encircling the year 1950 in which 
 an alien species recognized as the Chimera have captured over all of Russia and continue to spread 
 out to Europe, England, and the United States, transforming humans into super-powered troopers. Thegame 
 is noted for its use of both traditional and futuristic weapons system, reproducing Insomniac's 
 previous work on the Ratchet & Clank series. You take the role of one of the surviving human armed 
 forces as they combat against the Chimera offensive, Sgt. Nathan Hale.
  
  Insomniac Games has merged its passion for creating unusual weapons and vehicles, such as those 
 found in the Ratchet and Clank series, with its proprietary development engine and physics system 
 to create singular human and Chimeran weaponry. Each weapon supplies a unique play style and tactics. 
 An example of this is found with the Auger (Chimeran) . The primary fire for this weapon is simple 
 rapid fire, but the bullets burrow through walls, actually coming out stronger on the other side, 
 opening up a whole new level of strategy. The auxiliary fire creates a barrier that is resistant 
 to all bullets but its own. In attachment to the usual short - and long-range weapons, the game 
 points various different sorts of grenades, with both historical and futuristic diversities. For 
 example, one grenade, known as the Backlash grenade, is capable of creating a dome-shaped obstacle, 
 where you can enter for cover. The barrier echoes shots from opposing Chimera. Some weapons are 
 only available if you replay game, they can be found at certain locations.
  
  Thegame features melee attacks, and the motion sensing feature of thesixaxis controller is used 
 for a number of things including trembling off enemies that grab onto the player, agitating off 
 tags and flames in multiplayer, and quickly bringing up a map or leaderboard in a multiplayer match. 
 You will experiment turrets and a drivable jeep with a gun turret on certain levels. Thereare also 
 skill points that can be deserved during the single player game. These are given for specific actions 
 that are hinted at by their titles; nevertheless, the precise details are not revealed until the 
 skill point is in fact merited. There are generic skill points that can be earned during any single 
 level, and some that are exact to certain levels of the game. Each mission is worth a different 
 number of points which are used to unlock supplemental media for the game. Inaddition, numerous 
 Intel documents can be found dispersed during each level. 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man features a multiplayer mode for up to 40 players online with a 4 player 
 offline. Themultiplayer runs at a locked 30 frames per second, offline and online. This in game 
 system allows for user-friendly interaction between friends and bypasses the desire for players 
 to exit the game to communicate with friends. The maps all diverge in size and some of the more 
 well-liked locations such as "Nottingham" and "Grimsby" come in four different dimensions. The two 
 maps, Bracknell and Axbridge, will be appropriate to all types of games and can provide from 8 
 to 40 players per round. Bracknellisa map where players fight it out amidst the backdrop of Chimeran 
 node and Widowmaker rearing grounds, ideal for vertical and close-quarters combat. Axbridge, is 
 a restricted corridor with two human bases on each end. Aside from good sniping spots, the Axbridge 
 map also gives the perfectspot for close-quarters hostilities.
  
  Theoffline multiplayer also points a variety of modes, Capture the Flag, Team-Deathmatch, Deathmatch, 
 Breech, Meltdown, Assault and Breech. Resistance's multiplayer does not feature the vehicles found 
 in the game's Campaign mode. While playing online, you will either be assigned to the Human or 
 Chimera species, each of which has it's powers and weaknesses.
  
  The artificial intelligence of colleagues and opponents failed to win any improvement in this passage 
 into the future. Continue to act according to standards, without much imagination. SomeChimeran 
 are still able to jump to the sideif they see a grenade or when a vehicle is going in their 
 direction, but do not know how to hide themselves. Asfor our occasional companions of war, it's 
 even worse, in some clashes are terrible and can block us to move or a strategic point for precious 
 seconds.
  
  Itwill not be by visual that Resistance can be considered a real game of new generation. The 
 game has some remarkable moments, but lose some of its strength in things like surprisingly poor 
 textures, like paper. However, the more strange is that the choice of colors for the entire game, 
 or rather the lack of it. All levels are based on monochrome tones, though that might appeal to 
 some, others appear to Insomniac's laziness in using a colors palette that benefit most the game. 
 Either that or theChimeran also had the power to suck all the color in the world. Someenemies 
 have a design clich, but very detailed, and some bosses are of respectable size. Hale is a character 
 that does not stimulate great interest, not only for his very poor background, and its representation 
 in non-interactive sequences - a generic bald soldier who could have emerged from any Doom 3.
 
  
  Theoccasional songs are the epic style appropriate to these outstanding battles, but for a long 
 time, you fight only with the sound of guns and grunt of enemies. When connected to an efficient 
 speaker, Resistance attain with great audio effects and celestial voice acting. 
  
  Fromthe first leveluntil the last boss, Resistance: Fall of Man it'sabsolutely the best PS3 
 game available on launch day, and a extremely playable action game that will satisfy even the most 
 exhausting FPS fans. Epic boss fights, compelling weaponry, and a unique thematic are just a few 
 of the causes Resistance stands out. However, it's the multiplayer elements that really go upwards 
 this one to the next level. It's a must have for sure.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 9/10
  The gameplay is a lot like any other first person shooter out there. The controller is basically 
 a supped up version of the PS2 controller, so those who get this as their first title on the PS3 
 won't have a learning curve with trying to figure out buttons on their new machine. While playing 
 single player, it seems a bit slow and not as action packed as most expected. Also, it gets a bit 
 frustrating at first because it's quite easy to die during the first part of the game, but once 
 you learn some stuff (I won't spoil that for you) it becomes a lot easier. The online part of the 
 game is very good, the battles sometimes lag, however it's far and beyond more entertaining than 
 single player and I'd have to say that's where this game shines. Single player is good for those 
 who want to be able to beat it, but at the same time it is a bit boring and gives you that "Been 
 there, done that" sort of feeling. However, once you go online, you can easily tell that this isn't 
 that bad of a game and have a lot of fun.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  These graphics are great, they could of been better. The color does seem a bit lame, it needs more 
 color in the atomsphere. But overall the blood, the character, guns, vechiles, etc, The graphics 
 for those are amazing.
  
  Now, Resistance is a great game. I can honestly say I've enjoyed it quite a lot and the online 
 is one of the best I've played in a long time. Story is also great, But just a little heads up, 
 The AI in this game is unbelievable. They are really smart, not going to spoil it for you, but 
 it has some pretty amazing AI. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maukka94
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  Someone says that this games graphics are bad. But they dont never say thats okay it has come out 
 2006.
  Good.
  Singleplayer campaings were very easy in difficulty easy. But when u are trying to play it trought 
 with superhuman its damm hard. Ihave play this game trought 11 times and still playning even when 
 im getting resistance2 allready.
  Story is greate. Not beacaus its little greapy but because it sounds like half true. What it isen`t.
 
  Skill points are fun to collect.
  Cooperative mod is more than just fun its awesome. Playning the game trougth with your friends is 
 so nice.
  In multiplayer there is too things. First offline game.
  In offline game u can play with your friends on same console. The screen can bee share for 4 players. U 
 can customize the sever many ways. U can takesome weapons out from the game. U can but lives to players 
 all kind of little things can be changed.
  Second one is online mod. There u can customize your character .Change its costumes and but bags 
 on him. U can all so change its facecs.
  Best part off the game that in the online game u can earn more levels and with that u get more 
 clothes for your characters.
  There is custom game and ranked game. In custom game u can play any kind of games .Ranked games 
 gives u exp for leveling up. Ranked games have to main mods. Free for all (deathmatch) team deathmatch 
 and team objective. In free for all the games taht u can play are conversive and normal all are 
 just figting against each other. in conversive u have lives. When u have no more lives u are out 
 from the game and u can whatch the game when the others are killing each others. last player on 
 the map will win the game.
  Team dethmatch is maxinium for 40 players. There u fight as a team and try to win the other team.
 
  In team objactive u have two mods. Capture the flags and team convercive. Both are for teams. Everybody 
 knows what is capture flag so im no going to tell more about that.
  In team conversive u must capture all base`s to win an other team.
  weapons are cool. Best of 
 them is splitter!!!!!!
  Bad.
  If there is something bad to say ??????? nh there is nothing bad to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BryceHartell
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man, is a fantastic attempt by Insomniac at creating a serious FPS, far from 
 their childish begining in the Ratchet and Clank series. Resistance is set in the 1950s and puts 
 you in control of Nathan Hale, a US Ranger sent to Britain to fight off the Chimeran invasion. 
 The Chimera are some sort of Alien/Biological weapon that emerged from Russia and now threatens 
 to take over all of Europe. As Hale, you get infected by the Chimeran virus, but somehow survive, 
 and thus you fight to defeat the Chimera. And that's where Resistance fails to capitalise. The 
 story has great potential, but unfortunately after playing through the story, you wont really learn 
 that much, and you will come out with more questions than answers.
  
  Graphics wise, Resistance is pretty good. The enviroments, from war torn cities, to alien conduits 
 look great and the Chimeran look suitably frightfull. Although hands and weapons will occasionaly 
 protrude through walls, the graphics are probably one of Resistance's trump cards.
  
  The gameplay is probably another trump card for Resistance. There are loads of different weapons 
 and enemies, and you will fight alone, aswell as with hordes of comrades. Resistance also tries 
 to take a stab at Halo, by allowing you to drive several vehicles from a thrid person perspective. 
 Your health is divided in to four bars, with the ability of self regenerating one bar. the rest 
 of your health will have to be filled by health packs (yellow viles) scattered throughout the levels. 
 This combination of partial regeneration and health packs works extreamly well, and creates a good 
 balance of reliance, and the need to take cover every now and then.
  
  Now for those weapons I mentioned earlier. Resistance features a large assortment of guns, ranging 
 from your everyday rifles and shotguns, to the more outlandish weapons. Such weapons include the 
 nail shooting Hailstrom, and the wacky Splitter with its duplicatable bullets. All weapons feature 
 a secondary fire and all feel very different. There are also four different grenades. Your standard 
 Fragmention, devastating Hedgehogs, blistering Air Fuel, and a strange bubble forcefield creating 
 Flashback grenade. You will carry all the weapons at once which although is good as it gives you 
 access to any gun at any time, does make things a bit too easy.
  
  There too is a vast array of different enemies to slew in Resistance. Weaponless Menials, lion 
 like Howlers, gigantic Titans, and mechanised spider like Stalkers to name a few. All are fearsome 
 opponents, and all pose different threats.
  
  The weapons, enemies, and vehicles, all should have made Resistance one of the best FPS of all 
 time, but they're just not incorporated right. You will only get to drive vehicles in a few very 
 short levels, and even with all the weapons available, over 50% of the time you will find yourself 
 using the standard Rifle. This is because the other weapons run out of ammo before you really get 
 to use them, and to be honest, hardly seem any better than your trusty Rifle. Also the mass variety 
 of enemies aern't used enough. Three quarters of the game you will be stuck fighting the same old 
 foot soldiers, and even when you fight something different, they're never strong enough to stick 
 around long.
  
  Resistance also offers a Co-Op approach to the campaign, but unfortunately Insomniac removed some 
 of the weapons and gameplay features that are prevalent in the single player campaign. Also you 
 probably won't get much game time out of the offline multiplayer, as it doesn't contain AI Bots.
 
  
  The online multiplayer is where most Resistance owners will spend their time. It features multiple 
 maps, and game modes which should keep you busy for a while. You will also win awards and experience 
 points which you can use to customise your character with hundreds of different items and clothing.
 
  
  Overall Resistance is a solid FPS, but if you're like me and don't overally fancy online gaming, 
 you wont help but feel a tad let down. Bursting with potential, Resistance is one of those games 
 which just missed out on all time greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaner_bimmer
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I own this game because of the high ratings and hype. thankfully i bought it used. the graphics 
 piss me off. the difficulty pisses me off. The sound pisses me off. and the overall experience 
 let me down. but let me claim its because of the hype. i respect the game, but i cant help but 
 feel let down by the experience. and the sorry truth of it all is i cant get trophies for all the 
 effort. some games im willing to put that aside. this game is not one of them.
  Also I have not played the multiplayer aspect so please take that into advisement when criticising 
 my review.
  With the release of the sequel it allows me to hope that the dev could step up, but not having 
 played the newest one, i reserve my judgement for now. i wish i could separate the 2 games for 
 PS3's sake, but because exclusives make the difference this gen, its hard to give props where props 
 are due. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x-wing101
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man.
  
  "All of Europe is annihilated by an unknown force, and only you can stop it".
  
  Resistance: 
 Fall of Man follows the story of a United States Sergent named Nathan Hale. Europe has fallen to 
 a force called the Chimera, which only seek hatred and suffering to the human race. Britain is 
 where the human resistance is amassed, against all odds, humans fight on.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Seeming how this was the one of the first titles to launch for the PS3, the 
 graphics were designed well with a battle-torn Europe setting. Fancy cars, blown to shred buildings, 
 and plain old Chimera, this game was enjoyable to the eyes.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  
  The sound wasn't perfect, but it was well brought out.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  Just shooting 
 the heck out of the Chimera was very fun, but frustrating at most. If you manage to start playing 
 on the normal or hard settings, you will start to see that you will be dying a lot. Impossible 
 odds are placed upon you, which actually makes the game a little challenging, but basic. The AI 
 can be a little difficult to match and play with, seeming how they almost make perfect shots toward 
 you. The shooting mechanics, was sub-par at best, making you have barely any recoil, your aiming 
 as perfect, and the way the gun felt, it just dint seem right at all. But once you get past the 
 issues, you will see the game is very good. The story seems to drag you in lots, and the 40 player 
 multi-player just pushed the game to the top. 
  
  Conclusion: For hardcore FPS shooter fans, this game may seem worthwhile to play through the story 
 and multi-player, but for casual gamers, you will enjoy the epic struggle of humanity!
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is a solid first person shooter that puts you in an alternate history that 
 world war 2 never happened and a virus has spread killing or turning humans into the vicious Chimera. 
 The story begins in the 1950's in Russia where the deadly Chimera virus has spread. In a short 
 amount of time all of Russia has been taken over. Soon the same after almost all of Europe. England 
 is on the verge of destruction when the United States send 12 000 troops to reinforce them. You 
 play as Sergeant Nathan Hail as you fight back at the Chimeran scurge. This game has a good presentation 
 with well detailed environments and characters. The game play is excellent with great weapons, 
 environment, enemies, and more. You fight a wide range of different Chimera beasts though you usually 
 spend most of the time fighting the basic foot soldiers. Other Chimera include larger and more 
 tough Chimeran soldiers with more powerful guns, small bug like creatures that swarm you with large 
 numbers, wild hounds, and huge, monstrous abominations. For most of the game you'll be finding 
 your self fighting alone against large amounts of enemies and they are not easy to take down. Even 
 though for most of the game your fighting the same Chimera, how you use the different environments 
 and how you use your weapons makes every fire fight unique. Occasionally you have ally soldier 
 around but, unless they are one of the characters, they usually die within 10 seconds of you seeing 
 them. You can try to keep them alive but that's easier said than done. They don't do much damage 
 to the enemy making them pretty much useless. You might find it unrealistic how you survive all 
 this but Hail has is part Chimera making him stronger. The levels are pretty linear as they are 
 in most FPS games. Through out the game you have eight guns to use. These range from automatic 
 rifles that you will find yourself using a lot of to sniper rifles, rocket launchers, and a powerful 
 beam gun that can shoot through walls. Each weapon has an alternate fire such as a missile or a 
 lock on laser which makes the weapons even better. Adding to the game play there are some parts 
 of the game that you use vehicles. They are similar to vehicles in Halo where multiple people cam 
 use it at once, each person operating a different function. Its too bad there are not very many 
 of these because they are fun. You can play the game cooperative with a friend but this can't be 
 done on-line. I haven't played much of the on-line but most critics say its good. It would be hard 
 to find a game now that Resistance 2 is out. In total the game takes about 12 hours to beat. In 
 that time you get an understanding of the story but you don't learn much about Hail in that time. 
 If you want to have a good time with a FPS next time your in a game store you could get Resistance 
 Fall of Man for about $30.00 on a used game shelf or as a greatest hit. I recommend Resistance 
 fall of man. It's and enjoyable FPS and one of the best of is kind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smashking777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok right now im mad, my dad sold resistance to get spider-man 3 now im like WTF. Now let me tell 
 you Resistance is a good... no wait GREAT game made by insomaniac games published by SONY (er mabey 
 i have that mixed up) . Anyways there is alot of good in resistance and i really think it has the 
 abillity to become revolutionary (im pretty sure resistance 2 has that covered :) ) Any way this 
 game is about a military soilder named hale whos story is surrounded by shadow and he (and the 
 other soilders of the east coast) goes to help out the Europeains with there ''problem'' so they 
 go out to help'em out (ya know like ''brothers'') . But when they get there they realize this ''problem'' 
 is something they dont see everyday. Apparently there has been a sort of virus called the ''chimerain 
 virus''' and thsi virus spreds throughout russia aka europe and its has spreded too much for the 
 officals to handle yet alone the army to handle. Now you must guide hale through one hell of a adventure 
 and stop the chimera at any cost (really any cost) .
  
  Wrap -up
  ______________________
  Graphics: 9/10- yep another great graphical grade with niffty water affects
 
  Concept:8/10- just wait till ya get resistance 2 even better
  Playabliilty:9/10 yeah theres cutscenes and all
  Replay-value: high (it has a online mode:) (yeah 
 that was a temptaion)
  
  P. S: Your proprably tired of those paraenthenses (i fell ya) lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Music: 8.5
  Can't really explain the music in this, you can't really explain music...
  
  Sound: 9.6
  You hear soldiers yelling at you in the background and all this detailed crap, its 
 great.
  
  Gameplay: 9.5
  They got this gameplay right somehow... can't really explain why, they made the enemies have the 
 right amount of health, you have the right amount of health and the game gets better each time 
 you play it... more guns, more types of chimera (enemy aliens) and more! The story pretty much 
 is that some infection has taken over the world and you (nathan hale (i think) ) is immune to it.
 
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  Not the best PS3 graphics but it has a great theme to the game.
  
  Replay Value 9.0
  
  Value: 9.5
  
  PROS:
  Sounds
  Gameplay
  Guns: lots of alien guns 
 eg. the auger can shoot walls and shoot through them.
  
  CONS:
  Graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viking_1298
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:20 am PT
Review:  I've enjoyed Resistance 2 and after paying a visit to a local department store I discovered Resistance: 
 Fall of Man. One of the best launch titles on PS3 Resistance is a very stellar with plenty of action 
 and intense firefights just like the sequel but with some minor differences. First of all the graphics 
 aren't as good as R2 both artistic and technical and the control scheme a little different. On 
 a lighter note I finally got a chance to know how the Chimera were created and how Nathan Hale 
 was infected. Also what made the first level more of a challenge is that Nathan didn't had the 
 healing ability so you have to progress through it until the part when Hale got infected with the 
 Chimerian virus. That is when you can suddenly heal when injured even under intense fire. Even 
 with this new ability that still doesn't mean your invincable. If your overwhelmed then there's 
 a huge chance you might get killed in the process and in Resistance, being overwhelmed happens 
 on a regular basis. Although the intensity of the game isn't as extreme as Resistance 2 it's still 
 a all round great shooter that can't be overlooked. If you're new to PS3 or already own one then 
 Resistance should be a good selection for your PS3 library regardless of the fact that R2 is better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Man against alien predators at it's best. Building designs that will blow your mind. Weapons that 
 can subdue an army. You start off with your crew but they get killed and then you're by yourself. 
 Travel along the beaten path and take out aliens that get in your way. Retrieve Intel that will 
 help you understand how to plan your strategic moves.
  
  Ever since I played this game i could not stop wanting to play it. It was my second Playstation 
 3 game. I got it because I thought it looked like fun. Nine of my friends bought Playstation 3's 
 just for this game. I never get bored of this game. I think everyone with a PlayStation 3 should 
 own this game. I think the online was spectacular but was very hard. I think this game has the 
 best story line in any video game ever made.
  
  This grenade when thrown fires spikes in every direction. From the amazing story mode to the captivating 
 gameplay Resistance Fall of Man has everything. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordInvernus
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:40 am PT
Review:  A couple months back I figured I should pick up Resistance: Fall of Man and play it seeing how 
 Resistance 2 was coming soon. I loved the game from the start. I really liked the layout and design 
 of the levels. The gameplay was easy and fun (I liked driving the gun mounted jeep... I had a ton 
 of chimera hood ornaments) and I found the story pretty intriguing. I think one of the reasons 
 I only gave the game an 8 instead of a 10 is because the action is pretty much the same throughout... run 
 in, shoot the bad guys and go. Also, they give you a ton of different weapons but I really was 
 able to just use the 2 basic ones throughout with some help from the shotgun on a couple of enemies 
 and I didn't play it on the easy difficulty but it felt like I did. Overall, the game is great 
 and definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:59 pm PT
Review:  Man against alien predators at it's best. Building designs that will blow your mind. Weapons that 
 can subdue an army. You start off with your crew but they get killed and then you're by yourself. 
 Travel along the beaten path and take out aliens that get in your way. Retrieve Intel that will 
 help you understand how to plan your strategic moves. Also, look to upgrade your weapons because 
 these boys come with some impressive armor and weapons. This type of first person shooter is one 
 of the best I've seen. Every now and then you will reach your company just to end up alone again. 
 But it's okay because your skills as a soldier will get you through. The terrain is tough but definitely 
 built for combat. I was feeling the lay outs for sniping enemies and places for cover. Unless your 
 like my son the cowboy then you'll just run in shot em up style. Believe me that won't work so 
 long cause they come at you by the ton. Definitely see a sequel coming and this game should turn 
 into a franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspman45
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  if you have never tried a game by insomniac games this is a perfect start. the game s abot a dude 
 named Nathan Hale who is an american soldier sent over with 20000 other troops to help the british 
 fight off a new threat called the chimera. i would just lie to say this now, THEY LOOK SO F***ING 
 COOL!!! the cool thing about this game is that it is difficult enough that you die alot, but just 
 easy enough to enjoy. the gamefeatures alot of guns. each one has a dfferent second firing mode. 
 for example, my favorite weapon is the splitter. it shoots a big cluster of green explosive which 
 deals massive ammounts of damage, but by holding the firing button, you can hold the explosive 
 in front of your face, by pressing the secondary firing mode, it splits in to two pieces, if you 
 keep hitting the button, it becomes sixteen little explosives which could wipe out a large ammount 
 of chimera. the story is prety cool, but it is told by a snooty british girl who i think should 
 have died (i mean seriously, it would have been hilarious) if you have a PS3 and money, this game 
 is worth checking out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 417alum
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 1, 2008 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I played this game i could not stop wanting to play it. It was my second Playstation 
 3 game. I got it because I thought it looked like fun. Nine of my friends bought Playstation 3's 
 just for this game. I never get bored of this game. I think everyone with a PlayStation 3 should 
 own this game. I think the online was spectacular but was very hard. I think this game has the 
 best story line in any video game ever made. I also can't wait for the sequel. The best part of 
 the game is the weapons. The weapons are not just original but they are very fun to use. My favorite 
 weapon is the Fareye. This weapon is a sniper rifle which allows you to slow down time. The game 
 also has the best grenades. It has the original frag grenade and it has air fuels. An air fuel 
 is a grenade that puts a gas in the air and then burns. The other cool grenade is the hedgehog. 
 This grenade when thrown fires spikes in every direction. From the amazing story mode to the captivating 
 gameplay Resistance Fall of Man has everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: victormgs777
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This was the second ps3 game I got and I have to say it was a fantastic. It only cost me $30 new. 
 It's shooter that is great except it has no pistol, vehicles could be better and the frag grenades 
 could have bigger explosions. Other than those 3 flaws the game is the perfect shooter. The guns 
 are amazing, there so creative and innovative. The story is about an U. S. soldier, Nathan Hale, 
 who is infected with the Chimera disease while fighting alongside the resistance to exterminate 
 the Chimera. He is a fairly interesting character but not a lot is given. His story will most likely 
 unfold in Resistance 2. The fighting is good, the shooting is epic and the graphics are unbelievable. 
 There hasn't been a shooter this good since 007 Goldeneye. The only also features 40-player matches. 
 I recommend this to any gamer who likes shooters and any casual gamer. Look for my Resistance 2 
 review around Christmas time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVillainous
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Resistance was the first game I bought for the PS3. After hearing the hype about it and reading 
 reviews, I thought it'd be great. I was wrong.
  
  PROS
  
  The graphics are okay, though not quite up to today's standards. Considering this was a PS3 launch 
 game, I'd expect more. The voice work was competent (that word pretty much summarizes everything 
 about this game) .
  
  CONS
  
  The most obvious thing wrong here is the story. Resistance tries very hard to be something like 
 Half-Life 2, but it fails miserably. There are no custscenes, either in-game or pre-rendered; instead 
 we get a lame voice-over narration over still pictures. There's a rule in storytelling (whatever 
 the medium) , which says that you don't tell the reader/viewer things, you show them. Resistance 
 blithely ignores that rule, and the game suffers tremendously because of it.
  
  In terms of gameplay, Resistance is solid, but unspectacular. I can think of a half dozen shooters 
 off the top of my head that do this sort of thing better (e. g. the Halo series, the Half-Life series, 
 Republic Commando, Call of Duty 2 and 4 ... the list goes on) . While there's nothing overtly wrong 
 with the gameplay, neither is there anything amazing about it. It's just average, which is a disappointment 
 considering the hype surrounding it.
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  If I had to pick two words to describe Resistance, I'd say it's "Competent" and "disappointing." 
 It's not a bad game, but neither is it an awesome one. That's a shame, since with a little bit 
 of tinkering it could've been great. After all, the alternate universe the developers have created 
 here is interesting - they just fail to follow through on the game's promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robbieeeeee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Insomniac has brought us a FPS in the form of, Resistance: Fall of Man. It's quite good too. In 
 Resistance, you play as Nathan Hale, a regular soldier sent off to Britain to help the English 
 fight off new invaders known as the "chimera." They have infested most of Europe and are slowly 
 sinking in on England. The Chimera are an alien race which infects humans to mass-produce their 
 own soldiers. No one knows where they came from. No one really knows anything about them. But, 
 they must be stopped. In the beginning of the game you may notice something odd. There are no health 
 pick-ups. This can make the beginning, and learning, very frustrating. But, after a while they 
 do appear. After about half a level, Hale becomes infected with the chimerian bugs. Unlike most 
 humans, Hale wakes up from his coma, brought upon by the infection. He wakes up in conversion facility, 
 and the rest of the game rolls from there.
  
  Throughout the game you try to stop the chimerans in various ways at various locations around England. 
 Because of Hale's infection immunity he gains somewhat super-human powers and basically sets off 
 on mission all by his lonesome annihilating countless enemies. Many levels will be spent alone 
 fighting herd of chimeran enemies, from the little to the massive. As you will have allies most 
 of the time, they can die. And when they do, they don't come back. As any other FPS this game has 
 the same elements; different guns, vehicles, and epic boss fights. Although, this was a fall back 
 on the game, it's not very original. Another thing that bothered me about this game was towards 
 the last four or five levels, the difficulty level increases dramatically, to the point where you 
 will want to throw your controller against the T. V. The graphics are not up to PS3 capabilities 
 but, it's one of the first FPS for the PS3 so why whine?
  
  On the good side, the story is somewhat captivating enough to keep you playing, even when you should 
 be doing other things. I found myself playing this game instead of studying for mid-terms. The 
 voice acting could be better, and the game controls could be more fluid, as well as the physics. 
 In this game, it seems when you kill someone they turn into a rag-doll whose gained five-hundred 
 pounds. With replay value, this game has a "trophy system" built into itself. By doing certain 
 tasks, such as killing four enemies with a frag grenade at once, will award you "skill points." 
 Get enough of these skill points, and you can unlock different goodies, such as concept art, behind 
 the scenes footage, and different skins for your online character. This game does, obviously, offer 
 online play, which is very addicting. If you do not find enjoyment in the main game, then you will 
 in the online play.
  
  All-in-all, if you own a PS3, then there is no reason not to get this game. Even thought it's just 
 like most other FPS, it is still very fun and highly addictive. By now you can buy it for cheap, 
 AND with Resistance 2 coming out soon, it would be a waste not to own this game or at least play 
 it once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Resistance knows what it wants, it wants to be BIG, it wants to be ambitious, it wants to wow you.... and 
 it will. However, it won't do so with it's visuals. One aspect of the game that will disappoint. 
 The have looks good, and even great, but it just isn't up to par with what is out on market. The 
 visuals get the job done, with no visual glitches or slowdown to be seen. It has what is needed, 
 a solid visual style, great and responsive controls, and good, but not great  
 The campaign can be played both by yourself (obviously) or with a friend, which I never tried to 
 be honest, but from what I heard it runs just fine. The campaign itself is quite lengthy, running 
 in at about 12-16 hour adventure depending on how much (stuff) you look for (unlockables) . Which 
 is about twice as long as most shooters, and the game has no un-fun, or boaring parts. But it dosen't 
 realy have any (holy crap that was awsome) moments either. It's fun from begining to end, but it 
 never gets extremely fun. And speaking of begining to end, the ending (spoiler  
 quite disappointing. You go though a pretty lengthy game, and a fun last level, but all you get 
 at the end is to kill a bunch of bad alien bad guys in big fight, but then you shoot some rods 
 and they blow up....... the end, no big boss battle or cool cut-scene. The core thing explodes, 
 they show a so-so cut-scene, credits roll, after credits theres another so-so cut-scene and thats 
 it. The isn't realy a climactic ending or anything. It is very apparent that they from the begining 
 were going to make a sequel, and that realy makes me  
 The game does everything well, but nothing spectacular. 40 players online is fun, but while you 
 can play with 40 players online, I find it too be far more fun with just 8-12. The Online itself 
 is quite good, and with a huge community of loyal players, there are always thousands of people 
 to shoot/blow-up. Overall I'm VERY happy with what I got out of resistance and I think you will 
 be also. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achaean728
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is not a bad game, nor is it a great game. After playing through both the single player 
 campaign and dabbling into the multiplayer aspect of the game, I found Resistance to be an average 
 shooter, with a few moments of exceptional fun interspersed here and there. 
  
  STORY: The story was rather disappointing. I was expecting something pretty epic especially keeping 
 in mind the fact that the game centers around the fall of mankind as a race. Instead the player 
 is thrust into the middle of a story about the last days of the war against an alien species that 
 has taken over most of the world. Your character, Nathan Hale, is an American soldier that is sent 
 to England to help the Brits fight. And thats pretty much the story. Youre not given any background 
 on who Hale is or where he comes from. Same thing goes for the other side characters in the story. 
 The disappointment continues as your progress through the story because of a huge lack of character 
 development. The game simply just doesnt draw you in and you'll probably find yourself not caring 
 about the story nor the characters you encounter. This is further worsened by the fact the story 
 drags on for what seems to be an almost endless episode list (30 episodes to be exact) . 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is nothing spectacular, but this is where you will find the most fun out 
 of the entire Resistance experience. The mechanics of the gameplay is your standard, run-of-the-mill, 
 first person shooter style. The deviation here is the weapons you'll be using. They are a combination 
 of both human and Chimera (the aliens you'll fight) weapons. Each weapon has two uses, a main use 
 (just simply firing the weapon) and secondary use. The secondary use is where strategy and some 
 fun can be found. Secondary uses range from deploying a shield to protect from gun fire, firing 
 grenades, and even using the gun as an auto turret. Even with all the weapons and their secondary 
 uses to employ, you'll more than likely find yourself using the same one or two weapons through 
 the entire campaign. This point, coupled with a long campaign, can make the game seem rather repetitive. 
 I personally found myself only able to play a few episodes at a time before I was bored and needed 
 to do something else.
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics arent bad for a release title for the PS3. Compared to some of the later 
 games that were released on the PS3, Resistance's graphics definitely look dated. Despite this, 
 the game still looks good, especially when things catch fire, such as cars and vehicles. 
  
  SOUND: The sound is actually done quite well. The weapons sound terrifying, loud and imaginative 
 (especially the Chimera weapons) . The game could have used more ambient noises to really help immerse 
 the player in the campaign but there are enough to create a decent atmosphere in-game. The voice 
 acting, however sparse, is done rather well. Lastly, the music gets the blood pumping and you can 
 find yourself getting into it while blowing up some Chimera, unfortunately there are a few areas 
 were there is almost no music, and this detracts from the whole experience. 
  
  TECHNICAL: The game ran very smooth. As I played through both multiplayer and the single player 
 campaign, I found no major glitches or hic-ups. There was the occasional graphical glitch where 
 a dead body or a chair would be stuck in the wall, but nothing that really hindered or detracted 
 from the game. The AI for the enemy units seemed pretty good. On higher difficulties it almost 
 seemed the enemy AI would use flanking techniques to get me from the sides. Your ally's AI on the 
 other hand seemed pretty bad. They always ran into enemy fire, wouldnt really take cover behind 
 objects nor would they concentrate enough of their fire to be any sort of help (even on higher 
 difficulties) . 
  
  MULTIPLAYER: I was actually pleasantly surprised with this. 40-person multiplayer matches were 
 fun. The variety of weapons in the game also created some fun when running around the maps. The 
 maps were large and full of fun places to hide or fight in (like the roof of the cathedral in Manchester) . 
 The multiplayer also has badges and medals so you'll feel a sense of accomplishment from playing 
 tons of matches. Another good note about the multiplayer is that I was surprised at how large the 
 community was for a game that has been out since the PS3's release. The community is very much 
 alive and large enough to jump from one type of match to another. But be warned, if youre a newbie, 
 you'll more than likely get owned alot when youre first starting out. 
  
  All in all, Resistance: Fall of Man, is a pretty good game. Its not by any means a fantastic game 
 nor an innovative one. Its simply just a basic, average, first person shooter with an average single 
 player experience and a decent multiplayer experience. If you havent played this yet, its most 
 definitely worth a rent (especially with Resistance 2 about to hit shelves) and for any die-hard 
 fans of FPS games, it might be worth a buy, especially at its low price tag of only $30. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhaj
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  First of all, I don't like Sci-Fi games that much but I gave it a go to try it out.
  
  It was fun at first but sometimes it can get very hard to finish a stage or killing some monsters. 
 Graphics are very good surprisingly, it got lots of potential in it. I don't know what the new 
 game has to offer but we'll wait and see, rent it first of course or play the demo.
  
  I didn't finish it thou, because am stuck in some stage don't know where because it so damn hard 
 to kill them bastards, and the thing is that I couldn't find any cheat codes for it, (not for the 
 whole game) just to get me out of this stage, i usually don't use cheats for games but this stage 
 is so damn hard.
  
  The story kinda interesting, although the character you play in is infected some how and got yellow 
 eyes, but the thing is, he has no powers, WTF? i thought i could kick some ass at least.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hintaki
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Story
  Resistance: Fall of Man begins in an alternate history in 1951. You are SGT. Nathan Hale you are 
 lucky few soldiers that survived the alien invasion in Britain. You also met up with other soldiers 
 in Britain and you also help them fight the alien invasion out of our world.
  
  Graphics/Sound:
  The graphics are really good, but the characters emotion is quite stiff. But 
 it's quite decent though, I also like the cut scenes as well. The Sound is also good but sometimes 
 the talking can be quite low while the music can be a bit louder then the talking.
  
  Weapons/Medicine:
  Sometimes the bullets can be easily go really fast when you are fighting the 
 aliens. I also like most of the weapons and they are really good for each aliens that you encounter. 
 Also the medicine can run out quite fast. 
  
  Others information:
  The game is good, very interesting game but quite long. Each mission can either be long or short, 
 sometimes when you are battling it can be hard sometimes you have to redo some of the mission. 
 If you like history of the war then this game is really good to get. This game is really fun and 
 addictive as well and it makes want to know more what really happen to SGT. Nathan Hale. I suggested 
 to get this game as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simongeorge1
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:04 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a perfect launch title for the Playstation3 because its big, brash and bold and plays 
 just like a Hollywood summer blockbuster and that for me is where the game succeeds and fails at 
 the same time. The same as a Hollywood movie you know your gonna get great special effects, big 
 budgets etc and that's the same here but just as a Hollywood movie, you also know exactly what's 
 coming and the storyline is all a bit derivative, although still interesting.
  
  For me the game starts on a very bland note, no special scenes, weapons or enemies and continues 
 in this vain for a few hours in. Things are also too easy and the ammo is plentiful, so don't scrimp 
 on the ammo, shoot everything in sight with your favourite gun as the next box of shells is just 
 around the corner. My advice though is stick with the game for the first few hours and as soon 
 as the enemies improve and your range of weapons gets better so does the game.
  
  Multiplayer has the usual options, and is full while it lasts but nothing innovative here and that 
 about sums the game up for me. It's a lot of fun with gorgeous visuals just don't expect anything 
 innovative that moves the genre forwards. Lets hope Resistance 2 keeps the fun but introduces something 
 we haven't seen before.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 11:03 pm PT
Review:  The beggining of the game starts slow. It doesnt say much about the main character either. But 
 as you move through the game you start to understand the story and what is going on. The difficulty 
 is just right in my opinion. But if your new to First Person Shooter games you might want to start 
 with easy. Hardcore gamers who need to get a life can play on hard and be at there difficulty level. 
 Now the graphics are OK but you got to cut insomniac some slack because Resistance was one of the 
 only games at the PS3's release which means they were just getting into programming for the console. The 
 game's maximum HD video output is 720p which is sadly the average graphics level for a game. The 
 Single Player Campaign is Fun and is playable in Co-op also. As you progress through the game you 
 encounter new weapons along with tougher enemies which adds the scence of progress to your gameplay. 
 Once youve beaten the game in single player you can go and start the over again and you will have 
 new weapons to find such as dual chimera automatic pistols and a flamethrower which is pretty cool 
 and adds the i want more scensation to your head. The online gameplay is Fun in all but very Repetetive 
 and gets boring after a while. The only unlockables that i know of are just some different outfits 
 for your character which arent much different then your deafault outfit. You have to find better 
 weapons throughout the map which gets kindave annoying after trying to get to that rocket launcher 
 in the middle of the street for the 10nth time. But if all that online displeasure doesnt concern 
 you then you might like it because it features all of the singleplayer weapons and there are several 
 game modes to play. And Lastly there is up to 40 players in a single match which is pretty sweet. 
 That is all i have to say now about this game. I hope this was helpfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiBlakAngel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 10, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  For those that were like me and thought 3-d shooters can' only b done right on a PC. Listen to 
 this converted. 
  
  No i will not tell you that the console is better. (I would have to drag myself out to the front 
 lawn and shoot myself) . But with resistance i found the controls to be tolerable and the story 
 to be compelling. 
  
  I didn't get it back in the early days of the PS3 because of my bias, but thanks to games like 
 MGS4 and GTA4 and having good shot control I thought I would give it a try. And for only $29 new 
 i thought why not. 
  
  It was a little shaky at the beginning as I adjusted to not having my trusty mouse for support. 
 But I gradually warmed up to it. 
  
  Now while I still dislike the linear aspect of the level design it still pulled me in to wanting 
 to move forward. Rarely did I ever feel that something was too hard. Though missing the Intel on 
 levels angered me when it happened. 
  
  All in all if you haven't played it.. Look for the cheap copy or a used one and have yourself some 
 fun. 
  
  (I didn't get to play the co-op or multiplayer for this review) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allotheabove123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:09 pm PT
Review:  i think this was a great launch title for the ps3 and an even better exclusive. this game has really 
 bad default controls but in the options menu you can fully customize them. the campaign in resistance 
 is actually pretty hard but very enjoyable. the weapons are all very different and unique i mean 
 where else can you find a gun that has bullets that can home in on a target. the multiplayer maps 
 are pretty cool and the online is ok. overall this game provides hours and hours of fun and addicting 
 gameplay and well worth 29.99 at retail stores. i havent completed the single player campaign yet 
 but i heard that there was a huge cliffhanger at the end that will be answered in the second installment 
 of the series resistance 2 which comes out on November 11, 2008. i would definetly reccomend this 
 game to any one who owns a playstation 3 system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resistance93
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2008 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the greatest games for the PS3. I will start off by saying that 
 I have no idea where all these complaints about the graphics came from. Even though it could have 
 been a bit more colorful, it still looks amazing. Your weapons arsenal is great. FPS games usually 
 have more guns, but Resistance makes up for it in the quality of the weapons. With primary and 
 secondary fire for all of them, there are many entertaining ways to kill the baddies. One thing 
 I especially loved about R: FOM was the tension that it built as the game progressed. Certain levels 
 are downright scary and will have you on the edge of your seat. Lastly, I found the multiplayer 
 to be awesome as well if you have enough people to play with. If you are planning on buying a PS3, 
 this should be the first game that you get. If you already have a PS3 but don't have Resistance, 
 I don't know what your waiting for; it's your loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vs7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  This game is an excellent example of how games can be fun even without great graphics. This game 
 demonstrates brilliant gameplay almost at par with popular first person shooters like Half Life 
 2. 
  
  The story is standard, you are the only hope for mankind in a struggle against aliens who are called 
 Chimera. Finer aspects of the story are introduced by collecting carefully placed documents known 
 as intelligence. You have to battle on in various places of Britain with almost 10 weapons in your 
 arsenal, driving three vehicles and fighting hoards of Chimera in every corner. Throughout the 
 game you can collect Reward points by killing the Chimera by some special means or so. These Reward 
 points can be used to unlock bonuses such as art works etc.
  
  Do not miss this game if you own a PS3 (yeah I know you have heard this before) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the best FPS I've ever played. Its controls are slick and its 
 selection of weapons makes the game fast paced and fun because of the great variety of firepower 
 on your side.
  
  The only thing better than the campaign mode would have to be the co-op. There's nothing like running 
 around with your best bud, each of you equipped with your favorite snack and drink, shooting aliens 
 to hell with a Shotgun, Bullseye, Sniper Rifle, or Carbine. The grenades at your disposal are very 
 fun as well (especially hedgehog grenades) .
  
  The only downfall, in my opinion, is the fact that there is no lack of ammunition, making the game 
 not as hard as I had wished. While you may be hard pressed by the swarms of enemies you have so 
 many guns and ammo cashes that you don't feel that cornered, but this is a minor detail that I 
 always ignore when I run into the next swarm of enemies.
  
  Two thumbs way up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon720
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a game that is fun to play and has a high replay value. The game play is very good, 
 because there is nonstop fighting. The vehicles are fun to drive; they remind me a lot of the Halo 
 vehicles. The game has a high replay value, mostly because there are unlockables. The story is 
 also a good length. The monsters are a fun challenge and are well designed. I like how the weapons 
 are strong and you can almost feel the force of the weapons. The sound is very good to, the explosions 
 sound real and with a surround sound system you can feel them. But the fun stops there. The story 
 of the game could have been done better, but it is not told by the character you play, it is told 
 by a woman who you meet early in the game. The controls are very confusing I still hit the wrong 
 buttons at times. The graphics are decent but not the most of what the PS3 can do. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaDumb1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of man is THE first game on the Ps3, also one of the best to be released to date. 
 Here's how I put it:
  
  The Good:
  Resistance is about 90% good. The game is really fun with what I call "tactical run-n-gun." That 
 means it is still a run-n-gun game, but not mindless enough to breeze through firing wildly and 
 not giving second thoughts. The chimera come in large groups and get relatively smarter towards 
 the middle and end, making them pose a tough challenge. The larger enemies always put up a fair 
 fight, especially the Stalkers and the Widowmakers. You have a wide variety of guns, and you will 
 be using pretty much all of them, because they all are made to be used in a special situation. 
 The game also has some replay value to get the achievements and the second set of weapons. I have 
 all the new weapons, so I can tell you they are worth it and even more fun than the ones on your 
 first playthrough.
  
  The Bad:
  Resistance still isn't perfect, though. The graphics look like Ps2 on-steroids with little to no 
 lighting or shadows, plain character animation, and somewhat weaker textures seen in more modern 
 games. Like I said this is the First PS3 game and long before developers even started to harness 
 its power, even though they still haven't. Also, the cutscenes are pretty boring, which cuts the 
 enjoyment of the particularly interesting story. The cutscenes are just black and white pictures 
 of maps and old buildings narated by the most painfully dull British accent ever to be put in a 
 game. The British have a steriotype of being boring peop [le, and this game doesn't help.
  
  All in all, this game is great and you won't notice the samewhat weak graphics and the experience 
 isn't hindered by skipping the cutscenes, so you should definatley pick this up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenshinhimura10
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a game made by Insomniac, a developer best knowned for its high rating series Ratchet 
 and Clank. The game started with a simple idea, make a WWII game but change the story a bit. This 
 derived in a new game, situated in the 50s in a world that instead of having Hittler as the main 
 enemy, has a monster like race, called Chimeras.
  
  At first, Chimeras appeared in Russia, then, they expanded, they conquered Europe in a matter of 
 months and were starting to invade Britain when the US goverment decided to send help. You, the 
 player, will control the US sergeant Nathan Hale, a baldy guy whose team is wiped in the first 
 mission of the game.
  Your first encounter with the Chimeras is not a happy one, and you will notice that this game doesnt 
 go for the easy kills. In fact, most Chimeras take more shots than you would imagine to kill, making 
 the game more strategic in some sections.
  
  Resistance also mixes features from previous FPS games and some new ones. You will see the power 
 of the PS3 with this game, not from the hand of graphics, which for a launch game are more than 
 fabulous, but from the hand of events. You will see lots of stuff going on, and lots of details 
 too. If this is your first Next-Gen game, you will be amazed by most of the stuff, especially the 
 glass effect of the windows, the way they break mostly.
  
  The weapons in Resistance at first seem generic, you have the usual rifle, the shotgun, the sniper 
 and the rocket launcher, but the innovation, and in what I would say a very good idea, comes from 
 the Chimeras weapons. Humans use the weapons we all know, but the Chimeras have all the candy. 
 From the basic Bullseye to the complex Auger.
  
  Resistance campaign will take you more or less 12-15 hours to complete, more if you take into consideration 
 that in some of the last levels you will be dying more often too. But, Insomniac added some extra 
 stuff. As you progress through the game you will be able to unlock skill points, this skill points 
 could be related to Microsofts Achievements too. The Skill points will unlock extra stuff, as skins 
 for the online mode, artworks, movies and more. But skills is not the only thing you can unlock, 
 once that you finish the campaign, either in Solo or Co-op, you will unlock even more weapons, 
 some of them involve new gameplay techniques as the Splitter. Also, another bonus when finishing 
 the game is the option to play the game on harder difficulties, beign the hardest Superhuman, which 
 is a real challenge.
  
  One of the most amazing stuff in the game, is the feeling you get of being overpowered by the Chimeras 
 all the time. You kill wave after wave after wave of Chimeras, yet they still come. Insomniac managed 
 to create a great war atmosphere in Resistance. You will feel fear of advancing, you will feel 
 that sometimes there is no way to continue, that youve reached your limit, specially when you 
 get to the later parts of the game, and you are counting every shot making sure that whatever comes 
 next wont kill you.
  
  An important thing to take notice of, is that if you are going to be playing the game in cooperative, 
 make sure that you will be able to work as a team. The cooperative is offline only, I will later 
 talk about the online features. Now, when playing in cooperative, you will notice that everything 
 in the enemies is different, the enemies are stronger and the ammo is running out fast. This is 
 due to the fact that Insomniac decided to increase the level of difficulty here, meaning that if 
 you played this in Normal on cooperative, it will equal Hard on Solo.
  
  The effects of the game are amazing, from a great soundtrack that increases the atmosphere at certain 
 moments to a great use of sound effects. Now, the game is more like Resident Evil 4 here, and most 
 of the time you will miss the soundtrack due to the heavy SE sounds going on. But it all builds 
 and its amazing. Also, you will notice some things too, one of the features touted by Sony PR all 
 the time about Cell will be noticed here. Hedgehog grenades, which are some of the best weapon 
 in gaming hystory. If you fire one, you will see how each of the spikes detach from it as a nail 
 grenade. And you can use it even when you see more than 10 enemies on the screen, with clouds of 
 dust flying, firing all over the place and allied soldier fighting back with no slow down at all. 
 In fact, you will never notice slow downs in the game which is a real nice improvement over past 
 gens.
  
  Now, as for the online portion of the game, you will see that you have many modes, from classics 
 as Capture the Flag, Team Deathmatch and Deathmatch to new ones, as Conversion and Meltdown. The 
 online is really well done, though its missing elements from services as XBL, they can be solved 
 by a future patch; right now there is a new map pack, and the second one is coming soon.
  
  The most important feature of online comes from the lack of lag. Even if you have a slow internet 
 connection, I mean something greater than 256 kb.
  Now, whats the most interesting feature while playing online is the feature to level up. Yes, as 
 if you were playing an RPG. You will win points from every time you kill someone, and with them 
 you will level up, you will also be able to see your development over the time, though if you are 
 a first comer, and you are not interested in creating a fake account to practice, then you will 
 have some really bad stats to begin with.
  The last feature that we could remark about online, is the fact that you can customize your avatar. 
 An avatar is the character that other sees. You can unlock extra stuff by finishing the main campaign, 
 by obtaining a certain amount of skill points, by completing different difficulties.
  
  But online wouldnt be complete without some other stuff. You will be able to use a headset, you 
 will have a system to find a ranked match for yourself, you only have to specify if you want a 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch or an objective based game. You will also have a list of unranked games, 
 which unlike ranked games that are hosted by Sony/ Insomniac, the unranked games are hosted by 
 normal people.
  
  There is an option to play the online mode offline, for up to 4 players, but the lack of bots and 
 the size of the maps dont help it much, unless you have 4 controllers.
  
  All in all, Resistance is a great title, with lots of content to keep anyone happy for a long time. 
 The game also sports great gameplay, that will make you come back time after time. Though the story 
 could have been developed a little bit better, and given more information about some elements about 
 the back story, it was a great experience, specially if you are going to play it in cooperative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAKYON
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  its just great nice single player and multiplayer, not to mention 40 players online !!!!!!!!!! 
 that just amazing........ can you just image 40 players shooting at the same time, it's Epic !!!! 
 believe me its a great game.
  
  now all these are extras words i just need 100 texts to post my nice review.
  
  i also think 
 that R2 its gonna be at least 9.5 cuz insomniac guys are really working hard to develop an excellent 
 game. 
  
  its just great nice single player and multiplayer, not to mention 40 players online !!!!!!!!!! 
 that just amazing........ can you just image 40 players shooting at the same time, it's Epic !!!! 
 believe me its a great game.
  
  now all these are extras words i just need 100 texts to post my nice review.
  
  i also think 
 that R2 its gonna be at least 9.5 cuz insomniac guys are really working hard to develop an excellent 
 game. 
  
  its just great nice single player and multiplayer, not to mention 40 players online !!!!!!!!!! 
 that just amazing........ can you just image 40 players shooting at the same time, it's Epic !!!! 
 believe me its a great game.
  
  now all these are extras words i just need 100 texts to post my nice review.
  
  i also think 
 that R2 its gonna be at least 9.5 cuz insomniac guys are really working hard to develop an excellent 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supperwinnny
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 1, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  The review says the graphics were great but I tend to think they were not the best. Mind you, this 
 was an early game for PS3 so I will let it slide. 
  
  The gameplay itself is amazing and the campaign sucks you in very quickly and I could not stop 
 playing it. 
  
  My perspective of the game is limited in that I only beat the campaign once and did it on co-op 
 and I also never played online. That being said I found it pretty random that player 2 is some 
 random black guy wearing the only camo fatigues in the game... As for the main character, I thought 
 he was amazing. Yes, the game does not get into too much depth about him and the game is told from 
 some female's perspective. However I think the fact that he is so dark and mysterious adds to the 
 fact that he is so bad ass. In control of this character, I feel like the enemies are truely getting 
 what they deserve when I use the games "unconventional" weapons on their rotting corpses. :P
  
  Overall:
  
  The graphics and sound are good and the story is great with its old school 
 50's/modern type feel. This game is an instant classic for a good ol' shoot em up first person 
 game. You should definitely play it through at least once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 19, 2008 6:34 am PT
Review:  This game is simply amazing. A must have for every PS3 owner out there. The gameplay is excellent, 
 weapons are innovative, and all of them feature a unique secondary fire feature, which allows you 
 to enhance the overall performance of the weapon. 
  
  The controls in R: FoM are very easy to learn and very good, but if the default ones don't suit 
 you, you can change them as the control scheme is fully customizable! 
  
  The general gameplay is very good, Framerate is solid as well. There aren't any slowdowns in FR, 
 even with a lot of action onscreen. The game features 4 different difficulties: Easy, Medium, Hard 
 and Superhuman. Superhuman is unlocked after you beat the game once.
  
  The enemies you face in R: FoM are tough (some more than others) and, there's quite a variety of 
 them as well. Though you most commonly fight the Hybrids, you do encounter some very large, very 
 tough enemies in this game. The graphics in this game are good, especially for a PS3 launch title. 
 While its nothing like MGS4, its nothing to scoff at either. The sound effects are good though 
 theres nothing overwhelmingly special about them. As for online, this game isn't CoD4, but it's 
 still fun and pretty addicting. You can play as a human or the Chimera. 
  
  Also in online, humans have the ability to sprint by tapping L2 (default controls) and the Chimera 
 can go into Rage mode by pressing L2 (default controls) In rage mode, the Chimera can take more 
 damage before dying and they have the ability to see other players through walls. The one drawback 
 to this feature is if you're in Rage mode for too long, you'll begin to overheat and lose health. 
 
  
  Overall, Resistance is a fun FPS. It offers up a difficulty setting for any level of skill and 
 also has a campaign with very good replay value. If you own or are thinking of buying a PS3, make 
 sure you pick this one up, because you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamduffield
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  This is Halo but for the PS3, and In my view, it lasts alot longer than any Halo does aswell!
 
  The story starts out as American Nathen Hale is brought over to England to fight a new species 
 of alien known as the Chimera.
  The graphics are awesome from the start and even the first part of the storyline will get you hooked 
 on the game! The narrotive is often but so short it does not spoil the gameplay and is a very addictive 
 storyline.
  The sound is clear and dramatic, altought this game suffers from a few glitches, they are not enough 
 to spoil the gameplay!
  You will find yourself wanting to complete this game on all difficulties as once you have completed 
 it on hard you unlock a host of new weapons that make killing the Chimera a hell of alot of fun!
 
  The online is also strong on this game, plenty of good levels and more to download. If you like 
 shooters, you will love Resistance: Fall of Man
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  Confession, I purchased "Resistance: Fall of Man" for the PS3 because I was a big fan of its competitor 
 "Gears of War" for the XBOX 360. I also felt "Killzone" for the Sony PlayStation 2 should've been 
 a better game. "Resistance" is for those who would love a cross between "TimeSplitters" and "Call 
 of Duty". It's a solid shooter with good weapons and solid levels of action and the online competitive 
 modes is also good. However, the game is not too original and those who loved "Gears of War" will 
 probably feel disappointed. This game is more "Halo" than "Gears", but even then, it's not as good 
 as Master Chief's games. Still, fans of third person shooters should like it. The plot and look 
 is out of a 1950's Hollywood 'B
  ' movie; it's the American army against a race of aliens named the Chimera. The co-op splitscreen 
 is also very good and those who loved the co-op splitscreen action of "Gears" will get a kick out 
 of it. I'll give it three stars out of four. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Levi221
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  The game tells the story of Nathan hale, it take place in the 1950's and instead of WW2 a race of 
 creatures know as the Chimera have destroyed Russia and pretty much all of europe and its up to 
 Hale and a group of rag tag soldiers to put a end to it.
  
  Gameplay
  
  At first you might think the game is your typical WW2 shooter but after playing the first few stages 
 you'll see it's not. The thing that really puts the game apart from other shooters is tha great 
 selection of crazy weapons you get along the way, You get everything from the normal shotgun and 
 Machinegun and even the rocket launcher but you also get some crazy stuff like the Auger which 
 fires threw walls and can put up a shield that helps you dodge on coming fire and the hailstorm 
 which fires little bolts everywhere and one of my favorites is the hedgehog granade which shoots 
 spikes all over the place.
  
  The A. I in the game for the most part is pretty solid the Chimera and your soldiers do a great 
 job of taking cover and flank each other and they just do a great job of trying not to die. The 
 Chimera also get more advance weapons and gear later in the game and put up a very good challenge.
 
  
  The game engine can also throws a lot of enemys and objects on the screen all at once, theres times 
 when you are facing all sorts of Chimeras at once plus theres all sorts of crazy stuff going on 
 in the background like tanks drivng by ships flying around.
  The game also has a great Multiplayer that you can have matches to up to 40 people and the game 
 plays very smooth and the modes are pretty cool like capture the Flag and Death Match and also 
 Meltdown (its just like nodes from Ratchet and Clank) .
  
  
  
  Graphics
  
  One thing that a video game company that is making a launch game they want to make sure it looks 
 great and shows you what the console can do. The N64 had Mario64 and Waverace and the Dreamcast 
 had Soul Caliber and the Xbox had Halo and now the PS3 has Resistance and it looks great, like I 
 said earlier the game has a crazy art style if I had to put my finger on it I would say it reminds 
 me of the combine world in Halflife 2 and the For runner tech from the Halo series but thrown into 
 Europe in the 1950's.
  
  The game also has a nice little thing for small detail like little blades of grass moving in the 
 wind, pieces of trash flying around and the lighting in the game looks sick two. But the best thing 
 for me is the game always runs smooth and never drops a beat even when things get crazy and theres 
 all sorts of moments when the game gets crazy.
  
  Sound
  
  The game also has some very nice voice work and the soundtrack is also well done. The Chimera also 
 sound pretty cool. Oh yeah if you have a great set of speakers or a great system you are in for 
 a treat.
  
  Final thought
  
  The game is so much fun the only thing that I would complain about would be the health system and 
 the check points both just felt kind of dated to me, at times theres not enough check points and 
 the health system is based off of health packs and sometimes you just dont get enough of them. But 
 besides those two things the game is a killer app all the way and is by far the best Shooter to 
 come from a Sony studio and to grace a Playstaion platform.
  
  Well go buy the game if you have not now its 29.99 and man I cant wait to see what they will do 
 with Resistance 2 Hugh boss fights 64 players online and 8 player online campaine its going to 
 be epic.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMBladed
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game was amazing. One of the best games for the ps3 so far. Graphics are still just as good 
 as the games being made now. Does have short story mode. But dont fear multiplayer will keep you 
 at it for hours on end. Also co-op omg what games have that any more I love co-op really really 
 hard to find in new games now. But this will keep you going and going. Tryin again and again playing 
 with new people all the time. Weapons are great. Only thing is where is the pistol? You get everything 
 from a rifle, to a rocket launch, and some wired alien guns such as the sapper. Great game have 
 to love it. I have played this my self a few times with friends in the co-op. Btw there is a glitch 
 see if you can find it this meaning in co-op mood. There are a ton of glitches you can find online 
 but for now lets stick to the none cheating ones. I dont hate any thing more then people who glitch 
 on games online. Honestly where is your talent if you need to glitch. If you do that I give the 
 new guys better rep then you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 2:51 am PT
Review:  This game is the first FPS I've played since Doom II, and let me tell you. The genre has gone far 
 since those days of DOS and command prompts and what not. The controls are very easy to learn. 
 I think a little kid could really take some alien hide in this thing; its so d@mn easy to manuever. 
 
  Theres a good plenty of weapons and they're all so unique and fun to shoot. The Chimera are scarce 
 in some spots and the WHAM!! They're freakin' everywhere! So you're always on the edge of your 
 seat trying to figure out when they're gonna come at you and from where. There's no lack in suspense 
 or action. 
  As far as graphics go they're a little last-Gen, but this was one of the first games developed 
 for the PS3 so thats highly excusable. Plus, the environments and the action are so immersible 
 you can't help but get that creepy sense of realism here. You can get lost in Resistance. 
  There's plenty of cool levels with increasingly tough villians as you go. These battles don't get 
 old 'cause there's always something new to blow some holes in. And after a while you start to figure 
 out that some guns are better for certain badguys, so you start to get a feel of strategy here. 
 In fact there's plenty of battles that can be fought and won any way you want, but you'll figure 
 out that there's things strategically placed in the environment that you can use to hide behind 
 and creep up on the enemy from different angles. Or there's halways where you can lure them all 
 in where they'e tunneled and their numbers are useless cause you can take 'em all down with a few 
 grenades. There's so many ways to kill these freaks!!! Be creative!!
  I even played the Online Multiplayer a bit and it seems pretty fun and fast paced. Depending on 
 what map you're on you may need to start shooting the instant you respawn 'cause there's no room 
 to run. Just keep shooting! 
  Bottomline, this game is just superb. I'm so glad I finally bought it! And now that its been out 
 for a while you can find used copies for ten to twenty bucks (got mine at BlockBuster for ten) 
 or new for thirty. So this game is SOOOOO worth an out right purchace. GO GET THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crisiSlCore
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 1:44 am PT
Review:  The game is set in an alternate history 1951, and puts the player in the footsteps of Sgt. Nathan 
 Hale as he and the human resistance forces attempt to drive a mysterious alien-like invasion out 
 of Britain.
  
  
  Alright...
  
  Be prepared to be amazed with the PS3 launch title that is Resistance: Fall of Man. This game has 
 the lot, great graphics, perfect sound, good music, amazing voice-overs, superb gameplay, excllent 
 online multiplayer but i have not tried the co-op multiplayer and offline multiplayer yet but i'm 
 sure it's good.
  
  I think this is one of the best Launch titles for the PS3 and i bought it with my PS3 on Launch 
 day on March 23rd 2007 in Denmark.
  
  Do yourself a favour and buy it if you haven't already, you won't regret it. It's a fine game that 
 deserves to be played and enjoyed. I did. You won't be disapointed.
  
  cYa... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say this.. this was my first ever FPS and I gotta say it left me a great impression 
 on the genre. But enough about the genre, let's talk about the game. You get about 10 weapons in 
 all (something like that) some earthly weapons and some of the chimera themselves and after your 
 first playthrough you can find other cool ones that tempt you to start the game again. All the 
 weapons have their special place where they shine the most. There are also 3 types of grenades, 
 there's the normal human grenade, there's the hedgehog which is a spiked sphere that rids of it's 
 spikes to kill foes and then there is the air fuel grenade that burns about a 10 metre area taking 
 down the chimera in the area. The gunfire is really really massive and makes you feel really dominant 
 and gives you the urge of shouting a menacangly evil laugh muhahahahahahahahahahaha
  
  The environments are awsome especially the ones that are chimera made like Chimeran bases and towers 
 and the campaign is longer than the average next-gen game's so no need to worry about the length.
 
  
  I got this game pretty late so I didn't get to play against anyone in the online.
  
  Nathan Hale himself is a cool guy, not really how I had expected him to be. He has Chimera dna 
 in him due to an incident that happened in the first few levels and his eyes shine gold whenever 
 he has a Chimeran vision and he can heal fast due to the Chimeran effects in his body... what's 
 not to love about that?
  
  Now the Chimera are the things that make this game so popular. Sure they are aliens but they have 
 this unique touch to them... their towers, their ships, their weapons.. they do not look like the 
 stereotype aliens we see on TV that are smarter and more advanced, the Chimera are more advanced 
 yes but they seem to focus all their intellegence into war and destruction such as machinery of 
 mass destruction or machinery that made them stronger and dominant over the other species... The 
 Chimera are not the goofy aliens you see on TV, they are the cool species that you'd want as your 
 avatar and such... there are god knows how many types of chimera you'll meet in the game which 
 are all different in structure and origins. The only thing they have the same are the multiple 
 eyes and skin and you really egt used to the types of Chimera and learn their weeknesses as to 
 know what different gun you use with each type of Chimera... if you're like me, you'll also choos 
 which Chimera is your favourite lol
  
  The Bad : ( : - the cutscenes are just too short and lazy unlike the ones in the upcoming sequel.
 
  - Even though you have stopped an entire alien species from attacking Britain, you don't feel 
 like you have accomplished anything in the end... I don't know why this is, but it's probably since 
 Hale doesn't show any signs of being overwhelmed or disturbed by all this (due to his Chimeran characteristics) , 
 he never gets praised and doing massive stuff never looks like a big deal in this game. Nathan 
 Hale has done something extraordinarely massive and impossible but it feels like he has done nothing 
 special in the end.
  - The game's normal mode is pretty much in the middle when it comes to difficulty throughout most 
 of the game but SOME PARTS (not all parts) of the last 5 levels are hard and I felt that the game 
 didn't prepare you for these things before these levels... it's there is a switch between 'child's 
 play' and 'firey hell' that the game switches from one to another every minute... don't get me 
 started on the last level, nothing in the game prepared me for what I had to go through in that 
 one.
  
  I hope I helped at least one person with this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  From the makers of Ratchet of Clank series, 
  here is a COMPLETELY opposite game. 
  Ratchet and Clank is colourful, humorous, 
  all happy and silly, and just totally pixar. 
  
 Resistance offers a dark, serious, horror, suspense movie experience that's still totally tons 
 of fun. 
  
  The enemies come at you like people on steroids.
  If you hide in cover too long, they'll eventually come at you, OR theyll use a gun that goes through 
 your cover (alien type gun) and kill you. Your bullets always runs out, and the enemy takes FOREVER 
 to kill unless you have alot of bullet with that sniper. Snipers can only hold... 18 bullets. 
 
  
  But it really gives you that sense of SURVIVAL in the game, and it really feels scary. There are 
 many types of enemies in the game that basically would give you an adrenaline rush.
  
  The makers of this game are known for their crazy weapons and they did it again in this game. This 
 game is a fast paced game that gets better once you go on, with stronger, faster, cooler guns to 
 use. 
  
  This is a fast game for people who love the suspense, and love a bit of a challenge, because it 
 sure is harder than most of the FPS shooters today. 
  This game is at LEAST worth a rent. 
  
  - Berserkerz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandruff461
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 9, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  
  This game is an must-play. it has a good (not great) story line that is fun to play through. but 
 where it really hits is in the online multiplayer. This is almost as good as call of duty4 online. 
 but it really sucks when it comes to Bullseye tags, and the Larrk (bazooka) also, its online ranking 
 system isnt really much to be had. the more games you play online the more exp you get. and (duh) the 
 more exp means your get to level up. but the leveling stops at 60. I've probably played online 
 for about 30-40 hours and I'm like a level 48. there isn't even a leader-board. i think its more 
 competitive when you are racing to be the best. but, forming a clan and taking on other clans is 
 pretty exciting. plus there aren't just your conventional game modes like TDM or just DM. meltdown 
 and capture the flag is pretty intense too. over all the game gets a 8.0 and online gets an 9.5. 
 I'm out, c-ya!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrisf45678
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  When the PS3 first came out, it had only a handful of games with it. One of those was Resistance: 
 FOM. 
  I knew as soon as I saw the previews for this game that I wanted it. I HAD TO HAVE IT!!!
  This 
 was the first PS3 game I played so basically it was my first next-gen game. In short, it is AMAZING!
 
  Of course since we had not yet seen a game of this magnitude and this powerful and this massive 
 on consoles, our jaws dropped at the freakin beginning of the game! I guess I was just used to 
 playing GameCube games because as I said under the title, it was absolutely amazing. 
  You play Nathan Hale who, himself, has his own little storyline inside him. He's fighting off the 
 Chimera Virus which will carry on into Resistance 2. 
  In the first level, I forgot all about shooting the Chimera. All I was focused on was all the things 
 going on around me. There were planes going down. There were dozens of troops fighting and coming 
 out of choppers from the sky and just the shear intellegence of everything around me seemed like 
 a was in a living, breathing environment.
  The story is excellent. You get attatched to all the characters. Gameplay and especially multiplayer 
 is HIGHLY addictive (and I have half the world's population backing me on that. hahaha) .
  I truly believe this game rivals Halo. I personally think it's better and I might even get shot 
 for saying that but, you know. I have always said this is the PS3's own version of Halo anyway.
 
  Well all I can say is, "I CAN'T WAIT FOR RESISTANCE 2"!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stu_ponk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 5, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man
  
  Story
  
  There are so many FPS games out there; it's hard to come up with an original storyline. Insomniac 
 Games have done well here; they have hit upon a trend for old war based story (very WWII) and given 
 it a twist, a twist of the future or possibility of alien life. So if you're ok with a bit of fiction, 
 then carry on considering this game. Your character Hale is sent in to help British troops defend 
 against this onslaught of Chimera. We don't see your character talk much, he just hits the action 
 hard and well. Once a level is complete though, it often cuts to a nice voice over story, with 
 artistic images etc. Ultimately the game goes on and on; it truly is value for money.
  
  Graphics
  Personally I don't find the graphics amazing for the power of the PS3. Take a look 
 at Black on the PS2 and it's hard to find major improvement. However, what you do notice is that 
 there is no slowdown or lag. The finer detail is given in the close ups, so for instance you can 
 always see your weapon  this often looks realistic. Then there are your buddies; their uniforms 
 look reasonably realistic and textured fabrics. However, everything else in the foreground is very 
 basic and nothing special; hence it provides incredibly smooth gameplay. Also I'd note that the 
 colour pallet is limited, possibly to give the impression of being old; that faded off-white effect 
 you get over time on a newspaper. What that means is that the graphics don't look totally real 
  which might be a good thing. Finally there are the distant graphics, the backdrops; Resistance 
 uses very well drawn artistic backdrops, plenty of detail, yet somehow fuzzy  its ideal.
  
  Gameplay - Is the usual setup you expect, with the two joysticks for movement; it's very slick. 
 But more importantly is how smooth it all is. The zoom on your weapon works well and there is no 
 judder; explosions do not create slowdown. It's very rare I find my self stuck on the environment 
  there are practically not glitches in that sense. One excellent feature is that you can fully 
 customize the controls; have whichever buttons you want to make an action. All the weapons work 
 well.
  
  There are a good selection of weapons. Yes, some ideas seem to be taken from other games, while 
 the rest are just variations on real life guns used in the past. The sci-fi guns are great though, 
 and their abilities and mode of use make you think about what you're doing. Most weapons have a 
 secondary function  so whilst the basic machinegun (Carbine) spits out bullets, a tap on the 2nd 
 button unleashes a 40mm grenade shell. There are too many to list, but trust me there are plenty 
 weapons to use.
  
  The fine details of the game matter. For instance, when you zoom into your scope on certain weapons, 
 its done smoothly as Hale raises his gun up to his eye  its not an on/off switch like some poorer 
 games. Run whilst shooting and you'll loose accuracy, the crosshare gets bigger. Jumping is enabled, 
 as too ducking (ideal when low cover is available) . 
  
  Online  5 *
  Even though the game provides a huge storyline, it also boasts one of the best online experiences. 
 Whoever designed the online part deserves a medal. The menu is basic and works very well. You even 
 get chance to customize your character, with new uniforms when your rank upgrades. Whenever you 
 look for a match, you will always find one. This initially is because so many people are online, 
 but also because it is managed well. There is no 'host' to each match; instead you choose to start 
 a type of game  lets say deathmatch. You are automatically found a game; it can be any of the 
 different maps available. You join a list of other eager players and are only forced to wait for 
 the game to start for a short limited time, or until the game is full of players; no frustration 
 here. Once the game begins, that is it until the score or time runs out. If players choose to leave 
 the game, they can and the game continues  no dreaded 'game ended by host'.
  
  As mentioned there are many different maps. There are also many game modes. Other than simple deathmatch 
 or team deatchmatch, there are also objective games, like the old favourite capture the flag; these 
 objective games are teambased, pitted against other humans. There are no story co-operative games, 
 like there are in Turok. Lastly there are also customisable games; here you can join open games, 
 or watch them, or create your own. The options are massive. The only down side is the huge amount 
 of players out there that insist on one-hit-kill, for the less skilled individuals.
  
  After a game your points are given, you can view your statistics, your medals, etc. It is also 
 easy to chat to people, send them a message to say good game (gg) , or add them as a buddy. You 
 can easily add your mates in your PSN friends too. This way, when you log in online, you can find 
 them easily, and better still you can join them in-game if they are in a customized game. Therefore 
 when your mate sends you a message on PSN, 'hey mate, come help me on this level, we're getting 
 slaughtered', you can toggle up and join in the action.
  
  In game the graphics are identical to story; and still smooth. Some maps are huge and the sniper 
 rifle is actually worth having. Again explosions work well; there is no slowdown. Voice chat can 
 be used, or disabled, or you can select whom to mute.
  
  The action is super fast and smooth. You can jump off any height of ledge and shoot a foe in the 
 back. The game is meant for fun  and it delivers in spades full. Your player can take quite a 
 few hits on normal mode and thus means you can enter into the action with less worry of being spattered 
 by a camper; the only thing you need to be aware of is the deadly accurate snipers, the well placed 
 40mm launches and well thrown grenades.
  
  All in all it's an excellent game that actually works faultlessly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Midevilatheart
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a first person shooter based on an alien invasion post WWII. The game 
 is based in an "apocalyptic" England where you join forces w/ the Brits in order to rid the world 
 of the alien life-force trying to overrun it Those the aliens "take" are turned into their minions, 
 and thus cause their expansion across the globe to be even more deadly. It is your aid in the fight, 
 that helps rid the world of the evil-awesome beings. The visual effects are good, especially the 
 Chimera. The weapons selection is great. Everything from AK47's to hand guns to rocket/grenade 
 launchers. The on-line community is expanse. However, be prepared to be shot by your fellow team-matesjust 
 for fun.  The game maps in the on-line version are great as well. I've not finished the 
 game yet, but it gives the appearance that it can be a long game, which I like. Worth a look, especially 
 if you like FPS's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liugeaux
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is fantastic shooter that takes the good from other titles and spices it 
 up with very nice Sci-fi elements to bring you one of the best launch titles ever. 
  
  You are Nathan Hale (I found it really weird that both the Uncharted guy and the Resistance guy 
 were named Nathan.) an American soldier in an alternate reality 1951 where an alien race has taken 
 over almost the entire Eastern Hemisphere. You are sent to help the Brits maintain control of England, 
 and from there everything goes haywire. 
  
  The first level of Resistance is by far the hardest one in the game. I had alot of trouble with 
 it on the Normal difficulty level and began to wonder if there was anyway to regenerate your health. 
 Well, don't worry, after the first chapter (which you will be begging for) you get the ability 
 to regenerate health and the game becomes MUCH easier. You end up being given plenty of health 
 and can enjoy the slaughtering of alien scum quickly. 
  
  The highlight of Resistance that sets it apart from other FPSs is it's weapons. Taking a page out 
 of its hugely popular platforming series Ratchet and Clank, Insomniac has created multiple weapons 
 whose standard and secondary functions are interesting enough to carry the gameplay single-handedly. 
 The Auger (which shoots through wall and creates temporary shields) , the Fareye (a sniper rifle 
 that slows down time) , the bullseye (whose tags turn its regular shots into homing attacks) and 
 the Sapper (a mine launcher that launches bubble looking organic exploding pods that end up being 
 a savior in the later levels) all stand out as highlights of Resistance's gameplay. 
  
  The story is told through a really mysterious myth-like lore by one of the secondary characters. 
 Not knowing much about the protagonist adds to the power of the story that is being told. The style 
 it uses also builds a good setting and feel to the game. When you first start the game you really 
 feel like the humans are screwed. 
  
  Now for the downsides. Even though it's on the PS3 Resistance's graphics already look dated. The 
 720p that the game runs in cannot compete with later PS3 titles like Uncharted. Not to say it looks 
 bad, the visuals just didn't "blow me away". A lot of that is probably due to the grey tone that 
 everything in the game has. It helps set that mood, but also waters down the look of the game.
 
  
  Also, there is no big final boss to battle at the end. Sure, you encounter a lot of huge enemies 
 throughout the game, but the final battle is more of a gun fight with a lot of standard enemies 
 than a "final battle". The end of the game is fulfilling but you can't help but think that something 
 may be missing. 
  
  Overall, Resistance is a fantastic use of the Playstation 3 hardware and stands as one of the best 
 launch games in recent memory (other than Twilight princess) . Its engaging gameplay, addictive 
 story telling and intense actions stands as the current benchmark for PS3 FPSs, and from what I 
 hear it may hold that title until it sequel come out this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sludge12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. I bought this when it was pronounced as a greatest hits so I was like "I'll 
 check it out and see what all the hype is." When I played I was like wow so cool and great. The 
 on line is great and the weapons are innovative and fun to use. This is a game I would recommend 
 to anyone of the ratchet and clank series or to someone that wants a great game. Now I can't wait 
 for resistance 2 coming out. So if you want a great game in your price range or if oyu have a few 
 bucks buy this game you will be happy.
  
  You are a soldier named Nathan Hale and you are fighting an almost impossible to defeat creatures 
 called the chimera. Hale will discover secrets about the chimera and their origins. You are over 
 10 unique and good looking weapons with their own unique secondary fire. Over 15 different and 
 intimidating chimera ranging from small creatures to some as big as an elephant. This for only 
 $30!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Largo2001
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 29, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  RFM is a decent shooter, but to be honest, I was expecting more from this title. It is not bad, 
 it is simply lacking oomph...
  
  First, the cutscenes: the storey is told while you watch some picture on the screen between the 
 stages. That is not the best way to immerse the player in my view.
  
  Second, the weapons are alright, but nothing feels outstanding or new: I mean you have the standard 
 SMG, shotgun, handgun and an alien SMG... There could have been some improvements or else there. 
 Regarding the weapons, one of the main problem I have is with the alien SMG, this one is useless 
 from a certain distance, yet the enemy can hit you fairly well using the same weapon in the same 
 situation... frustrating.
  
  There are some good moment, like when you play co-op with bots and such. Driving vehicles is fun 
 too. The concept of 4 levels of rechargeable life is great too.
  
  The game took me about 8-10h to complete; not exactly long.
  
  My advice is this: if you have 
 not picked-up Call of Duty 4 or the Orange Box, get one of those (or both) before this title.
 
  
  If you played them and you are looking for an average shooter, pick this $30 title up... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of my favorite games and I couldn't wait until it came out. But 
 this game is so great and fun especially if you're a First Person Shooter fan than you need to 
 have this game. I liked the game a lot and had a good experience with it.
  
  There isn't a good selection of weapons in the game that you can choose from and use. The weapons 
 also look good you can tell they have good detail in them. You can use bombs to a bazooka which 
 is cool and even a shotgun so you'll have fun blowing your enemies away. 
  
  The game play is basically at it's best in the game and Resistance also has a very good story and 
 some really good cuts-scenes. You will see a lot of the enemies in the game over and over a lot 
 sometimes but that isn't a bad thing. To me the Co-Op makes the game a lot fun than it would be 
 if it didn't have that in the game.
  
  Overall this is a good game for the PS3 and everyone should at least rent it to see what it's like. 
 The game never got boring for me but that me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  I was fairly surprised when I heard that Insomniac Games, the creators of the family friendly game 
 series Ratchet and Clank, was making this gorey, creepy, first-person shooter, then I remembered 
 that Insomniac's first game, Disrupter, was infact a FPS, which assured me that they probably had 
 some idea what they were doing. 
  
  The Graphics are decent, the blood effects are good at a distance, but up close they do look a 
 little cheap, that's really the only complaint I have in this catagory. 
  
  The gameplay is so much fun, there are quite a few different weapons which all have different primary 
 and secondary abilities. The scary, sometimes clausetrfobic environments can make you piss yourself, 
 and the boss fights are fun and challenging.
  
  Overall this is probably one of the most fun first- person shooters, second only to Call of Duty 
 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadolf
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  I'm more of a computer FPS gamer but this came with my PS3 so of course I played it. Got the hang 
 of the controls pretty fast, pretty cool graphics, some vehicular play, and decent story. Not sure 
 if I'm gunna get R2 or not. It looks cooler though so maybe.
  
  Online is fun but I haven't played it much since CoD4 kinda blows it out of the water. That doesn't 
 mean much though since CoD is so amazing.
  
  Solid, fun game that gets a lot of attention. I expect that R2 needs to be a bit better be successful. 
 Hopefully the levels get to be a little longer with check points. Some of the levels feel short, 
 especially some of the vehicle levels, which are tons of fun and you want them to be longer. Now 
 that its a "Greatest Hit" game, it would probably be a good idea to go out and pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshockraptor
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Plus: There are alot of new weapons that have never been seen before
  Minus: Feels alot like the Halo games on XBOX
  Interesting: This is Insomniac's first non-Ratchet 
 & Clank game since 2000
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man for the Playstation 3 was released simultaneously along with the Playstation 
 3 and Motorstorm. Even though most games that are released with the console usually get a low score 
 from critics, this game has been argued that it's one of the best console launch games. Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is rated M17+ by the ESRB and MA15+ in Australia. The controversy following this game 
 is that it has too many similarities towards the Halo games.
  
  So the story goes as these aliens called Chimera have invaded Earth during World War 2 and have 
 taken over Russia and most of Europe, and are currently invading Britain. A resistance force from 
 America comes to try and beat these horrible and terrifying to a pulp. It is an alternative story 
 to World War 2, which is where it happens. I actually think this IS a lot like the halo games 
 aliens invade, one certain dude steps up to kill them, etc. Most of us have experienced this same 
 storyline but it isn't bad. XBOX owners may feel a slight sense of dj vu, and it might seem to 
 them this is just Halo set in the 1950's. The thing is, it isn't. It will definitely suck you in, 
 and makes a good fictional storyline of what could have happened during World War 2. I like it 
 and it has a nice twist to it.
  
  So you play Sergeant Nathan Hale, who is part of that resistance from America. He doesn't actually 
 speak that much, but the feel you get from playing him is strength. He's shaved/bald, whichever 
 you want to say, with a green World War 2 outfit on. In the first level of the game he gets attacked 
 by the Chimeran babies, which look like the scarabs from the Mummy movies, who implant their what-ever 
 into his body. This is how he gains the ability to heal himself when his health is low and take 
 damage. Also when you're playing co-op (which I'll talk about later) there is a different player 
 that your mate plays as. He doesn't have a name and is never seen in cutscenes, and the story is 
 that Nathan is all alone in this big Chimeran base for example, and this character was merely stuffed 
 into there for co-op. There isn't anything bad about that, but maybe if they added in a background 
 story to this mysterious man. Now the other main characters in the game are, most obviously, the 
 Chimera. They all come in different shapes and sizes and are all unique in their own way. Some 
 are big, some are small, some are strong and some are weak. Most of them put up a good fight, as 
 it's very interesting to look through the documents you collect to see more in-depth looks at the 
 aliens.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is an FPS game, no doubt. All of it is set in first-person view from Nathan's 
 perspective, besides in the cutscenes. While there are many FPS games, this gameplay is solid, 
 fun and the only parts when you aren't in action is when you're stuck and don't know where to go, 
 or when you're in the jeep trying to find out where you need to go and what you need to do. Pretty 
 straight forward, standard FPS gaming. It's not that special, but by all means, it's not bad.
 
  
  The controls are almost perfect. You are always using ranged guns, the only melee attack it when 
 you whack your gun against your opponent, with triangle. They're basically the same as any old 
 shooter, but the only issue I had with it was when you zoomed in with your gun you had to click 
 down the R3 button to do it, which is kind of annoying to do but nothing too bad.
  
  I must say, these are definitely good graphics, especially as it's one of the very first Playstation 
 3 games to be released with the system. They are spectacular, even better in high-def. There aren't 
 many -or any at all- technical issues or blocky figures. All smoothly shaded and well done. The 
 cutscenes and gameplay graphics actually look exactly the same, except for the big cinematics (such 
 as the ending and a few others) when it showed the brightness and finer details.. The big thing 
 I couldn't get over was when I was up one end of the battlefield, with the sniper rifle, I zoomed 
 in to the "safe house" which is at the other end, and on one of the signs I could read the writing! 
 I guess it's not that big a deal, but in other games it might not have exact writing. For your 
 information it said, "No pedestrians past this point."
  
  There actually is a bad thing in this game. Yes, you heard me. And that bad thing is the music. 
 It's pretty good at first but it's just so damn annoying! It is literally the same  
 over and over again! Luckily there is no in-game music, but in the main menu and lobby loading 
 up your multiplayer match it's just so repetitive.
  
  Although waiting for an online game to start up and listening to the annoying and boring music 
 over and over again, multiplayer is one of Resistance's strong points. You have 3 options of multiplayer. 
 One is to play local co-op in the storyline. Another is to play locally with up to 4 players, and 
 the last is to play up to 40 players online. They're all fun, very immersive. In 4 player local, 
 or 40 player online, you can have death matches; where you must kill everyone you see until you 
 achieve the highest amount of kills, team death matches; the same thing but with teams, capture 
 the flag; where one team needs to capture the other teams flag and take it to their base, and more, 
 such as meltdown and breach. They're all so fun, and you can adjust basically anything; time limit, 
 kill limit, weapons, health etc. When you're in the online lobby you can either go to ranked match; 
 where you enter a random game with people of your skill level, custom match; where you select a 
 number of options and automatically search for a game, or create a match; where you get to do just 
 that. I played this game so much online, and it was fun every match I was in.
  
  Now this is a moderately long game. It didn't take very long to complete it in co-op with my mate, 
 but it's longer in single player campaign mostly because you'll die a lot more when you're playing 
 on your own. It could easily be finished in about a week, maybe longer if you're pacing yourself. 
 It's not really long, but not really short, around 10-15 hours it will last you in campaign mode. 
 
  
  So after you're done with the story you wouldn't really play it again. It just doesn't seem as 
 fun as the first time you do it. I doubt you would go through it again unless you wanted to collect 
 all the pages of some report and unlock other weapons, so the only reason to keep playing this 
 is the multiplayer.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man has amazing multiplayer, an interesting story and superb graphics. The 
 only bad things are the replay value and maybe the length. The characters and chimera are cool 
 in their own ways too. So this was basically the best game on the Playstation 3, but other games 
 have came out since then so if you want a better shooter game there are games like Metal Gear Solid 
 4 and Call of Duty 4, but seeing as though this game has gone platinum and is fairly cheap, this 
 is a must have game if you're looking for a compelling story, so the bottom line is get it!
  
  Story  4/5
  Characters - 5/5
  Gameplay - 4/5
  Controls - 4/5
  Graphics  5/5
  Music 
  1/5
  Multiplayer  5/5
  Length  3/5
  Replay Value  2/5
  
  Overall Rating:
  89/100 - Superb 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a first person shooter developed by Insomniac (of Ratchet and Clank 
 fame) which takes place in an alternate-reality 1940s, where World War II never happened. Instead, 
 an infective race known as the Chimera have overrun most of Asia and Europe, and it's up to you 
 to turn the tide of the war.
  
  What's interesting about this title is that the entire time you're playing it, something nags at 
 you that the game isn't quite right. This will be confusing for most gamers, as the game has a 
 lot of what it needs, and has it in the right places. 
  
  The graphics are superb, especially considering that this was a launch title for the PS3. Things 
 feel a little gray and grainy at times, but the style fits for a game that takes place during the 
 WWII era. All of the modeling work from the backgrounds to the characters and weapons are highly 
 detailed and very impressive. When a Chimera gets in your face, you know it.
  
  And you won't only see it, you'll hear it. The sound quality of the game is absolutely top-notch. 
 Whether it's the growl of a lesser enemy or the wail of a boss character, you'll hear every scream, 
 gunshot, footstep, and explosion with great clarity. This aspect of the game needs to be singled 
 out here, because it does such a great job of enhancing the immersion and gameplay.
  
  Insomniac also did a great job of working with, but not abusing, the Sixaxis controller. While 
 the controls are your standard console-FPS faire, they are incredibly tight and mapped well to 
 the controller. They've also employed a new mechanic where you have to shake the controller if 
 an enemy grabs you, which adds some extra realism. And while the camera may tend to be oversensitive, 
 it's easily adjusted in the menu.
  
  Whether you're in the campaign or online, the gameplay is outstanding thanks to several aspects 
 including some creative level design, the variety of enemies, and the variety of weapons. The weapons 
 are particularly noteworthy, as they include such weapons as the Bullseye. This weapon allows you 
 to "tag" a target, and the bullets you fire will go straight for that target until it goes down. 
 Another fantastic weapon is the Auger, which allows you fire directly through solid cover. The 
 checkpoints are too far apart, and you lose a lot of ground if you die, but the battles are enough 
 fun that you won't mind running them a second time if you're taken out. 
  
  With all of this said, the gameplay's most shining quality is the intelligence and adaptability 
 of the enemy A. I. You will certainly fight more than one epic battle during the course of this 
 game, and it's all a credit to this fantastic feature. The Chimera work together incredibly well 
 to flank, rush, and provide suppressive fire, but the most impressive feature is how they duck 
 for cover when being fired upon. In other words, if you start shooting them in the chest, they 
 will actually crouch and lean at the same time to avoid being hit. This is opposed to most shooters, 
 where once you start shooting your enemy they stand there and take it until they're down.
  
  With all of these fantastic features, it's hard to imagine what keeps the game from being over 
 the top. The answer actually lies in its weak storyline, which leaves the game without its own 
 sense of identity. 
  
  If you've played other FPS titles, you're going to get the feeling that you've done all this before, 
 and you have. There are, quite frankly, times where you're going to forget which FPS you're playing. 
 At one point, it felt as though I was playing Castle Wolfenstein. Then it felt like Quake II. All 
 of a sudden, it was Halo. By the time I was done, I had played through six or seven different shooters, 
 all on one disk. While this certainly doesn't ruin the entire game, it takes a game that should 
 have been unique in its own right and reduces it to a very well done clone of several other games.
 
  
  Despite the drawbacks, the game is still a worthwhile purchase, and will give you a decent 10  
 12 hours of campaign time. Add in countless more hours of high-quality online play, and you get 
 your money's worth. It may not carry much of a story, but it's a fun ride nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Reviewed
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 23, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  THE STORY:
  
  It's the 50's and Europe has been taken over by the 'chimera' a human hybrid created in Russia. 
 The chimera come in many varieties and all will try to kill you. The story tells of U. S soldier 
 Nathan Hale who has been sent in to stop the chimera threat .As the game develops you learn more 
 of the chimera and how they have taken over Europe.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  First things first there are a variety of weapons which range from shotguns to chimera weapons 
 such as the brilliant 'hailstorm'. All weapons have a first and secondary fire. For example the 
 bulls eye. This gun is what we would call a chimera version of a machine gun. You have your basic 
 fire (bullets) . However, the secondary fire launches a tag. If you manage to hit your opponent 
 with this then all your bullets will be directed to this tag. This is great for firing around corners. 
 Of coarse you would expect nothing less from Insomniac games the makers of Ratchet and Clank.
 
  The next thing is 2 player campaign which is surprisingly rare in modern day games. This adds 
 a teamwork factor to the game and we find is more fun to play and a little easier.
  There's the chimera themselves. They come in a great deal of variety. from small, to tall to very 
 tall. There's the basic chimera which have a bull's-eye ( chimera gun) . There's the howlers, big 
 wolf like creatures and my personal favourite the angel, basically the big bad boss of the chimera. 
 (there are plenty more kinds but it would take several days to mention all of them.)
  Finally there is online. Online consists of matches of up to 40! So things can get a bit crazy. 
 Online is greatly spiced up by the range of weapons and sheer number of players. Online also involves 
 an addictive ranking system similar to that of Call of Duty 4. On top of that you have the chance 
 to gain medals for things such askilling 50 people with headshots."
  
  THE BAD:
  
  The obvious 'bad' thing about this game is it's hard as hell even on easy. It takes lots of practice 
 to master this game. 
  There is also bad collision detection which for some reason is something that greatly annoys us 
 in games. This can range from things such as walking through dead bodies to walking through tree's 
 and walls.
  Finally oddly enough there is the online (yes, we know it's in the good section as well.) This 
 is based also on the range of weapons as each weapon has it's advantages and disadvantages but 
 some advantages with some weapons weigh out the disadvantages and vise versa. This leads to unbalanced 
 games and can become quite frustrating
  
  
  
  
  THE SUMMARY:
  The Best
  + the variety of weapons
  + plays well online
  + multiplayer campaign
  
  The Worst
  - 
 The graphics could be from a 'good looking' PS2 title
  - annoying glitches
  - check points are far apart
  
  THE REVIEW:
  
  GRAPHICS - 7.0 - although not terrible just 
 not very 'next-gen'
  GAMEPLAY - 8.5 - Spiced up by a variety of weapons, chimera and scenery
  LIFE SPAN - 8.0 - With 
 numerous difficulties and extra weapons on second play through the campaign will keep you occupied. 
 Even if it is only 7 to 8 hours long
  
  OVERALL - 8.0 - A relatively new type of shooter which will challange most gamers difficulty wise 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dharma481516
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:32 am PT
Review:  Picked up the game because I just got a PS3 recently and wanted to check out what all the buzz 
 was about since the game came out (which worked out nicely since it's now on sale for half of what 
 it was before - yay!)
  
  Anyway, I really thought that the basis for the story was a very cool twist on what it normally 
 a way overused setting. Really, how many WWII games have we seen? But the use of WWII as a setting 
 but changing it so that aliens have invaded earth was a fun way to break away from the hundreds 
 of titles set in the same era.
  
  Right away I noticed that the gameplay is very smooth and the controls are nice and responsive. 
 This is especially important on an FPS, and it really helps to have everything moving smoothly 
 while you're trying to blast away at enemies from all angles.
  
  The weapons are a real treat to use as well. You start out with just a standard rifle, but even 
 that weapon is an excellent choice throughout the rest of the game, due to its good acuracy and 
 decent firepower. Soon after though you get to try out many more weapons - a less accurate but 
 fast-firing alien rifle, a shotgun, a crazy rail gun that uses projectiles that bounce off surfaces, 
 a minelayer that shoots goopy blobs of explosive that you can leave as traps. The creativity is 
 certainly not lacking with the wepaons, so you won't be bored with the choices there.
  
  The campaign spans a wide range of environments, both interior and exterior. You'll have to deal 
 with enemies hiding in bombed-out buildings, lurking in shadows just around the corner. And you'll 
 also have many instances of firefights breaking out in open fields and outside buildings. The types 
 of fighting styles you'll have to employ in these situations will have to change depending on the 
 environment.
  
  The game takes you through a bunch of different areas as you progress through the story, and you'll 
 get a good variety of different looking places to fight, from the wartorn streets of europe, to 
 the interior areas of the alien held fortresses. It's a great looking game, and the effects you 
 see still look cool even though they're a little old now.
  
  The story ends with a major tease for a sequel, which of course is on it's way, so it'll be cool 
 to see what's coming in the sequel.
  
  Resistance: Fall Of Man is a incredibly fun game to play, so if you haven't picked it up yet, go 
 get it! It's definitely worth checking out as one of the really good exclusives to the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malachi_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was the most successful game at the PlayStation 3 launch back in 2006. 
 Insomniac wanted to add a new franchise next to the Ratchet and Clank series they developed. But 
 does Resistance live to the hype?
  
  Resistance is set in 1952, you play as Nathan Hale. An alien race called the "Chimera" has invaded 
 Earth and is infecting the human race turning them into monsters like themselves. Yes, Resistance 
 is one of those games that you play as a "Super Soldier," which basically means you are the most 
 skilled soldier. Your other comrades aren't necessarily there to keep you alive, because they die 
 almost just as easily as you do. The game takes place in England, and you will explore the city, 
 the outskirts, and the catacombs in the game. There are eight different weapons you can get in 
 the game. Most of which are pretty cool and very useful. The shotgun a surprisingly effective weapon 
 in the game. Resistance is a linear game that will only last you about 15 hours at the most. The 
 online and offline multiplayer is really solid with very little to no lag. The games are easy to 
 find and it is very addictive (especially when you become good at it) . 
  
  What was a little disappointing in Resistance was the soundtrack. Insomniac is known for really 
 unique and Tim Burton - esque music. The music is dark and intense, and a lot of it repeats in 
 areas throughout the game. The sound effects are definitely top - notch. Each weapon has there 
 own unique sound. The graphics in Resistance aren't not the best of the PlayStation 3. I remember 
 when a game called Killzone was released, and everyone was really disrespecting it because of its 
 lack of color. Resistance is the exact same way, but it is getting more respect. I like how they 
 made the graphics gray, but it would've been nice to see more color in the game. At first, the 
 graphics didn't impress me, but later on I started to appreciate them more. The lighting is pretty 
 good, and the detail in the textures isn't half bad (albeit not the best the system has seen) . 
 Resistance isn't like a Call of Duty with Chimera -- no, it is more of a Run 'N Gun type of game. 
 It is smart to take cover because the game becomes increasingly difficult especially on the harder 
 modes.
  
  Resistance won't take you long to beat, and it's nice because the game continuously stays fresh 
 and exciting throughout. It has the vehicle combat from Halo, and great platforming and shooting 
 elements from other awesome FPSs, and has a great atmosphere to the overall package. Resistance 
 is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  When you first start to play the game you might be thinking like are these the only creatures I 
 get to fight. But after the first map gets finished you will be hooked ,It gets better alot better, And 
 the storyline makes it better. I like it and I hope you do as well.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is great, The controls are right on the money and thanks to a huge variety 
 of maps it wont get boring. There is also a good amount of chimeras to battel along the way and 
 if you like FPS you will definetly like this. Great Storyline with well done Cut-Scenes
  
  Weapons: Well you can oly use weapons and bombs, there are no knives you can use. These weapons have 
 been greatly designed from top to bottom, With detailed surface, it has its effects in the game as 
 well. I like the weapons you can use, everything from a shotgun to a bazooka. You can also hit Chimeras 
 with your weapons so you have no problem when those creatures come near you. And a thing that always 
 helps is a bomb.
  
  Chimeras: The Creatures in this game are very repetetive, Every map will have one kind of creature 
 you will being seeing rest of the game. It doesnt make it boring but can get frustrating.
  
  The biggest Chimera in the game is almos a size of a building, And yeah its the spider. The ending 
 boss the angels arent that strong altough scary as hell. Creature have gotten a huge way to attack 
 like being able to throw pieces of wall at you or even metal items they find, Thats just the big 
 ones. Deadliest one is the Spider for me.
  
  Co-op: Well without CO OP it wouldnt be as good as it is, its much more fun to play a game with a 
 friend than alone.
  
  They have made a co op campaing that is exactly like the single player Campaign so you will still 
 follow the storyline of the game. The co op is a split screen and actually works very well. You have 
 the exact same abilities in the CO OP mode as in the Single player mode.
  
  Maps: Well I had to mention that the maps in this game are great, everything from snowy to a being 
 in a Chimeran spaceship.
  Every map has alot of work put into them but sum parts have gotten less and you will definetly 
 see that in the game. Detailing wasnt so much ment for the maps, it was mostly ment for the creatures, weapons, cut 
 scenes.
  
  Online: The online mode was said to be a great one, and that it is, altouh many maps can get pretty 
 boring really fast because its mostly just shoot to kills, team deathmatch or a team objective. I 
 like all of the modes, and if you dont like the campaign ,try out the online mode, youll find it 
 fun for a while atleast. Im still into it.
  
  OVERALL: Great game with good gameplay, doesnt have alot of different weapons but still detailed 
 and fun to shoot, Chimeras are big and fast, they hase put alot of effort into making chimeras look 
 good, so when you kill one check em out a bit closer to see what Im talking about. Cut Scenes are 
 fun to watch and needed to watch to know where you are. CO OP is a great addition to the game. Online 
 modes are good. The campaign is good, maps are good but not detailed.
  
  I like the game alot, It might get boring for people that want more things to do in a campaign than 
 just run around and kill creatures but this game is evolving around it. I like it and thanks to 
 the great controls its satisfying as hell to kill em.
  
  Overall score 9.5
  
  Give me a thumbs up or down, your choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: memberthirteen
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game about the time it came out and it was a bit hyped, but not too hyped, which 
 made me question the game. I found it to be fun, fast-paced, and it was a bit creepy, which I appreciate. 
 It has good weapons and a crazy roster of enemies. It also has a great potental to be a great series 
 and i'd love to buy more. I only found 2 flaws in this game: A: it was too short, and B: on the 
 verge of being a bit repedetive. From what i hear the online is okay, but could be better. The 
 main thing i applaude is the amazing Co-op, which, on the harder difficulties, you need. At some 
 points in the game, it looks like it was made for 2 players. i give this game a "great, keep it 
 coming" in my books, and that's because It is what it was meant to be: a sci-fi shooter with amazing 
 graphics (like snow) and a cool game to play overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYrockinlegend
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a great shooter game with not just promising online play, but also an exciting campaign, 
 both to last tons of hours. Whether you're a hardcore shooter fan or someone who enjoys action 
 game campaigns, then this would be a great game to consider. The game looks good
  
  In the campaign, you will basically fight horde after horde of a variety of creatures called Chimeras. 
 These battles are thrilling, but can also be frustrating. I gotta warn you, this game's difficulty 
 can be pretty steep. Learning each option of each weapon in your arsenal is easy enough, but it's 
 going to take some serious tactical shooting to get through the single-player campaign. You die 
 very quickly, so you must take cover from enemy attacks, all while trying to shoot them down. They 
 will greatly outnumber you, and you will need to find the best way to kill them before they kill 
 you. Sure, the game is still fun, and playing over tough battles isn't that bad, but just be aware 
 that an insane difficulty level is in store for you. Even veteran-shooter gamers will find trouble 
 in this. The AI is extremely smart, both a good thing and bad thing. Good because you get to battle 
 tough enemies, and bad because they are just "too smart". The story is very serious, but not very 
 progressive, and Hale barely has any personality, or any characters, for that matter. Nevertheless, 
 the campaign mode's alot of fun, and going back to it on a higher difficulty level with newer weapons 
 unlocked gives it a large amount of replay value.
  
  Multiplayer: Unfortunately, you can't play against bots offline. A typical thing for a developer 
 to leave out. Sure, you can still enjoy playing against up to 3 other players offline via split-screen, 
 but it just feels empty on the large maps that were designed for 8-40 players online. Now this 
 is where the online comes in. Very frantic and hectic, the game has some nice online features, 
 and the intense battles you'll be fighting could occupy you for several hours. Just a few problems 
 with the online community: they prefer 1-hit matches, so it's not put to its full potential, and 
 it's difficult to find matches that aren't just 1-hit. 
  
  Overall, an impressive game that plays and looks great. If you don't have an online connection 
 to your PS3 yet, you won't enjoy it to its full extent, though the campaign could occupy you for 
 awhile. The music fits, though aside from the title music, it's not really memorable, nor does 
 it stick out that much. But this is a pretty sick game if you're a hardcore shooter fan or action 
 game lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Thanks to Insomniac on their favored franchise series, Ratchet and Clank, they started to start a 
 new chapter on video game development, creating a new franchise that's neither sequel nor prequel, and 
 it was called Resistance Fall of Man. The story focuses oon the Extra-terrestrial race known as 
 the Chimera who has shocked the whole Earth and invaded London and the rest of Europe. Now you, as 
 Sergeant Nathan Hale, must take on a whole horde of Chimera with non-stop action. If you played Resistance 
 than there are many things that stunned me with not only with its' exciting FPS elements but its' 
 fast-paced action as well. You can get a whole arsenal of weapons, which my favorite features the 
 Bullseye and Auger with decent damage and accuracy. This game has a bit of some similarity to Halo 
 itself, but with little difference. Their are an enormous amount of enemies you can slaughter through 
 that really just put a grin on your' face. The game is added with a fast and furious mutliplayer 
 that really is too hard for me to easily master. It's like every minute everyone frags you soo much. Resistance 
 is a good game and all but with a blue-multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterPoof
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 6:33 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a great fps. It might sound like just another alien invasion fps but the game is 
 actually a lot of fun to play. You start as Sgt. Hale who is an American soldier that is part of 
 the resistance to drive back the Chimera, an alien race that is able to convert each dead human 
 soldier into one of them by sending them to "conversion centers". The weapons in the game are pretty 
 good, the Auger is useful at times when you're fighting against entrenched enemies or a turret. 
 There are plenty of aliens for you to shoot up, you'll mostly be shooting at Hybrids, the most 
 common type of Chimeran soldier. The Chimera are fairly intelligent too, they will make use of 
 cover and pop up and shoot you. The friendly AI kinda sucks but I don't mind, more aliens for you 
 to shoot. The story mode is about 10-15 hours long, not bad for an fps. The multiplayer is also 
 good too, where you can be the Chimera or the aliens. I think they should have made the game a 
 little easier though because the difficulty level can get extremely hard at higher levels. Overall, 
 Resistance Fall of Man is a great game and one of the best fps games on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Resistance brings what a first person shooter game wants. An Alien Invasion??! I thought his game 
 was gonna be boring by means of repetitivness. But no, it was really fun. There were different 
 creatures to shoot from. It was actually scary if you were alone playing with no one else because 
 it seemed like you were actually in the game. Which reminds me that there is coop in this game 
 which is great. Not only that , you could also ride on vehicles with your friends. The variety 
 of weapons were good but could of added some more exciting looking ones like the flamethrower. 
 This game was very suspenseful which caught my attention to the game. I bet that if you guys who 
 think this is a bad game would think again after you play it. For the muliplayer side there is 
 only 2 characters to choose from. People and the Aliens, which is a very poor selection to choose 
 from. The multiplayer mode is alright but could of also added a few more maps to satisfy the player. 
 Overall this game just great! Very Suspenseful and its also a long story so you will get what you 
 payed for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leo-i
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man really is a good shooting game, but not great because its a bit too boring 
 if you rush too hard on that game, i mean when you bought the game don't just play too much then 
 like me i didn't really play anymore for a while. And the game is really easy too finish it, like 
 you can finish it if you play it all night.
  The good point about this game is the multiplayer mode like you can play with at least 40 players 
 and that really is cool, and I love the weapons and the differents grenades.
  Now the graphics are really really good, and the gameplay is also really great that is why i really 
 like this game.
  So to resume the best point about this is the multiplayer mode, the graphics and the gameplay. 
 So if you hesitate about this game, just buy it for online play because it really is amazing.
 
  
  Leo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultra-Fatality
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Resistane : Fall of man is a surprisingly good game considering it is a PS3 launch title. Its a 
 first person shooter and has an interesting story about a war between Humans and the "Chimera" 
 who are a variety of humanoid creatures whom were originally human but were taken to Chimeran "conversion 
 centres" and converted into humans. There are the main Chimeran footsoldiers who are the main enemy 
 in the game, then there is the bigger version of the footsoldiers, then workers who attack in swarms 
 and are easy to kill but take half your health of if they manage to bite you, then the giant Chimeran 
 creatures which are very hard to kill and fire at you with some type of cannon. There are many 
 more but these are the main Chimera.
  
  You play as sgt. Hale who is an American and has a natural resistance to the Chimeran virus. The 
 Single player is around 15 hours long which is lengthy for an fps, it features pleny of unique 
 weapons some of which, unfortunately, you dont get much chances to use. The graphics are superb 
 for a first generation PS3 game and so are the character models.
  
  The online multiplayer is good too, featuring a max of 40 players, a variety of modes and some 
 interesting maps and intense action making it arguably the best exclusive PS3 online game. MP.
 
  
  Overall it is a great and enjoyable game and I would recommend PS3 owners to but it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 12, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  I was not impressed. I expected a whole lot more. In my opinion the gameplay is quite boring and 
 repetitive. The weapons don't really interest me. The only weapon I like is the hedgehog grenade. 
 But, the Chimera are a great foe and I like the setting of England but I feel they havent captured 
 England properly. The abandoned cars littering the empty streets look like something that came 
 out of a much less serious game like Destroy All Humans. I really hate the main character. I hate 
 the name Nathan. It just doesnt suit a hero. Another thing is I hate the way they portraid the 
 American guy as the hero making the British look helpless. Although some of the creations of Chimera 
 are quite terrifying. 
  The multiplayer in my opinion is tastless and lacks substance.
  I recommend you buy this game only if you are interested by Resistance 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azul_Cobra
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance was the first game I got for my PS3, which probably is the same for most PS3 owners 
 who got it at launch. I personally felt this game didn't live up to its hype BUT I didn't buy into 
 the hype so that's why I still give enough love that the game deserves. 
  
  So the story, very interesting and immersive. You play a man named Nathan Hale who *SPOILER* is 
 infected early on in the game but some how survives since he is apparently immune to the bugs that 
 infect you. Once infected, you start to gain traits of the chimeras (Which are the aliens that 
 are you enemies fyi) for e. g. regen health, shiny golden eyes (which is noted in the game several 
 times) , aggressive, and stronger than a normal human being... since you arent one :P. *END OF SPOILER*
 
  
  Gameplay is pretty much what I expected from a fps console game, very quirky at first but the learning 
 curve isn't bad at all. The aiming will piss you off but thank god for auto-aim on the single player, 
 some online games however... ehhh. I have been playing fps since cs beta, and I loved cs 1.5 (My 
 opinion the greatest cs version ever made) , cant stand source but hey I am an old schooler so what 
 do you except right? The controls are, well all over the place... I mean almost everything does 
 two different things. Like if you press R2 the weapon menu comes up but if you tap it changes weapons, 
 this can get annoying if you can get use to console shooters *ahem*.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous for the time of its release, and I was on a SDTV. Although there were 
 some odd glitches and bugs, just like in any other game, it was basically flawless in this department.
 
  
  The audio was done quiet well, although there also some weird moments of high pitched screeching 
 by some of the enemies that made my ears bleed. This department was also done well.
  
  Now for the online, the thing that really pissed me off about this game. Like I mentioned before, 
 I am a big fps gamer but I can honestly back up what I said so many years ago that fps games should 
 stay on the PC because the formula works perfectly and it plays for a nice smooth transition for 
 online and offline gaming. This game however made me wanna throw my controller out my window so 
 many times... Too many moments of "Wtf how the hell did he not die? I unload 2 clips and he wastes 
 half his and I die?" Same gun btw. Maybe its my aiming. This is definetly by prefrence because 
 probably most of you will do much better online than I did for sure.
  
  Overall, awesome single player. Cool array of weapons and explosives. I also forget to mention 
 this but I loved the transition of the alien weapons and the humans weapons, they weren't over 
 powered like most alien weapons are and they felt just right you know. Each weapon was a different 
 type of class I geuss you could say. Resistance 2 is coming out in a couple of months, this game 
 is 29.99 right now. Why are you still reading this? Have you gotten the game yet or not? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 10, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is not the most unique shooter out there. To me, it feels sort of like a mash up of 
 Halo and Gears of War. That said, it is one of the most intense shooters out there, outpacing both 
 Halo and Gears, and it is also extremely well rounded for a launch title. 
  
  The graphics in Resistance are good, but not the greatest. Considering the fact that it has been 
 a little over a year and a half since its release, I'll cut Resistance some slack in the graphics 
 department, but there are plenty of games out now that look a lot better. The sound has held up 
 better, and it manages to constantly drive the action forward. When playing with surround sound, 
 it is sometimes possible to find hidden enemies by listening for the sound of their breathing, 
 which is a cool touch. 
  
  Gameplay is basically your average shoot em up, but all of the standard tenets of the FPS are executed 
 very smoothly here. Like CoD4 or Halo 3, Resistance's single player campaign is not the most innovative 
 game; instead, it is just executed almost perfectly, which makes it worth playing through multiple 
 times. Also, the game is surprisingly lengthy, which ensures that players will get a great value 
 for their money. The only flaw in the campaign mode is the checkpoint placement. Insomniac has 
 placed checkpoints very conservatively in the game, which can sometimes lead to frustration. Still, 
 the core gameplay is fun enough to warrant coming back anyway. 
  
  The one area in which Resistance really differentiates itself from other shooters is in its weapons. 
 Sure, protagonist Hale carries the standard issue Carbine assault rifle, sniper, rocket, and shotgun, 
 but each of these weapons has had a unique spin placed on it. The Carbine doubles as a grenade 
 launcher, the sniper can temporarily slow down time (very helpful not only for scoring headshots, 
 but almost necessary to get through some of the more intense shootouts) , and so on. In addition 
 to the human weapons, Hale totes a few Chimeran weapons around as well. They are all fun to screw 
 around with, and new weapons are introduced consistantly, even towards the end of the game. I still 
 tend to rely mostly on the automatic weapons and the rockets as I do in most shooters, but unlike 
 in other shooters I also love the sniper because of its unique abilities. 
  
  As I mentioned before, Resistance is a very well rounded experience. The lengthy campaign mode 
 features a host of trophy-esque goals that will unlock extra features when met (like the Medals 
 and Rewards in Uncharted, or the Glyphs in Heavenly Sword.) They're fun to collect, although they 
 don't actually say what must be done to earn them. Another major feature in Resistance is the co-op 
 campaign, which, in a stroke of genius, can be played parallel to the single player game. Forget 
 about having to erase a single player save in order to start a new co-op save with a buddy. There 
 is also a huge multiplayer component in Resistance that supports up to 40 players online, as well 
 as the ability to play as either a human or a Chimera. Of course, most people have since moved 
 on to other multiplayer games such as CoD4 or Bad Company, but there is surprisingly still a dedicated 
 community playing Resistance online. Just don't expect any 40 player games. The most I've seen 
 in one game was around ten. It's still a fun diversion, though. 
  
  Overall, Resistance is a great shooter made all the more exciting by the fact that the upcoming 
 Resistance 2 promises to improve upon the original in every way. This game is a steal at its new 
 Greatest Hits price, and its guaranteed to leave you with lofty expectations for the sequel.
  
  Graphics: 8.75/10: Not great, but still quite good.
  Sound: 9/10: Pretty good music, but 
 the voice acting and Chimeran grunts leave the most impact.
  Gameplay: 9/10: Fast, fun, and surprisingly strategic, the gameplay is held back from perfection 
 by extremely conservative checkpoint placement during the second half of the game.
  Entertainment: 9/10: I wouldn't hesitate to call Resistance a must play, especially at its new 
 price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilgorTheMighty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  What do you look for in a modern FPS: flashy graphics, cool weapons, awesome multiplayer and an 
 addictive personality. Resistance does all of these thing and nearly perfects them. What Resistance 
 does is takes all good FPS and mixes them together which isn't a bad thing but if you have every 
 FPS out there then this is going to be generic and underwhelming. But if you don't normally play 
 FPS then this is a good introduction. This is a great game to pick up for your first PS3 game one 
 it has amazing multiplayer will keep you interested till you can get another game. Overall this 
 is an extraordinary game that should be part of any PS3 library. This has been the best game from 
 Insomniac in a long time.
  
  PS Those other reviews that i have done have been my younger brother so from now on I will leave 
 a little PS of what I will review next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01234512345
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 9, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  If you consider yourself a fan of first-person shooters, then you really owe it to yourself to 
 give Resistance: Fall of Man a shot. Whether that means taking the plunge for a PlayStation 3, 
 playing one over at your filthy-rich friend's house, or whatever else it's going to take is beside 
 the point. What matters is that developer Insomniac Games took the best aspects of some of the 
 best first-person shooters from the past couple of years, added some great weapons and visual flourishes, 
 and put it all together just in time for the PS3's launch.
  
  On the exterior, Fall of Man doesn't look all that different. Take a few steps away from your television 
 with squinted eyes and you could mistake it for Call of Duty or Medal of Honor. But do yourself 
 a favor, open those peepers up and step towards the screen because Resistance doesn't pay homage 
 to World War II... it attempts something on a scale of much larger proportions.
  
  As you can tell, we found Resistance to be a heck of a good time, but it did offer up a few disappointing 
 moments. For example, players can and will find several areas in the game that consist of just 
 walking -- a sort of "do nothing" jaunt to the next big action sequence. These are meant to be 
 breathers, sure, but midway through the story it comes across as an unnecessary way to extend stage 
 time longer than it had to be. It's also disappointing that most user-controlled vehicles (which 
 include tanks, jeeps, and a few other surprises) are so incredibly powerful that, unless you're 
 playing on hard, will totally dominate an otherwise-challenging enemy. Throw in the fact that co-op 
 can only be enjoyed offline (online co-op is becoming more and more common these days) and the 
 ending disappointment I mentioned earlier, and you have a less than perfect game. The Online is 
 a smasher though. It is fun and you can earn yourself medals and improve you rank to the highest: 
 Sumpreme Comander.
  
  But let's be honest, Resistance doesn't have to be perfect to be fun, and fun is exactly what it 
 is. From start to finish, Fall of Man is one hell of an outstanding roller coaster ride that every 
 last PS3 owner needs for day one. Epic boss battles (the final few are crazy!) , ever-changing scenery, 
 addictive weaponry, and a unique thematic are just a few of the reasons Resistance stands out. 
 But above all else, it's the multiplayer elements that truly ascend this one to the next level. 
 It's a must have for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechtRonin07
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a breath of fresh air in a market saturated with insipid shooters that do nothing 
 to push the envelope. While Resistance may not be a revolution by any means, it's a push in the 
 right direction. The graphics are not going to amaze anyone, but that's all right when the game 
 runs at a constant buttery smooth frame rate. The combat throws constant adrenaline rushes your 
 way in the form of fast and ruthless opponents. The amazing weapon list is one of the best in any 
 shooters, bullets that bend around corners or guns that can shoot through walls and emit shields, 
 plasma weapons and various grenades are just a few of the awesome weapons you'll find. The music 
 is straight out of an summer blockbuster giving an epic feeling to the events unfolding. The world 
 in which the story takes place is also replete with files detailing the creatures you find in the 
 game, in this sense the world seems deep and well designed. Now the negative. While the game does 
 give you information on the creatures and weapons you'll find the story itself falls flat on its 
 face in a series of forgettable narrated cutscenes in between missions. Considering how detailed 
 the rest of the game is it seems odd to me that the story would e vaguely told by someone other 
 than the protagonist. The only other complaint I have is the very linear campaign, that kills the 
 need to play though the again. A stellar multiplayer makes up for this though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  Yeah, just like Halo... except for better environments, weapons, enemies, variety of pretty much 
 everything...
  
  I was fairly impressed by this game, and I'm not really that big of a fan of FPS's. The story line 
 of it was actually a little bit better than I thought it was going to be, although, it would have 
 been nice if some of the questions were answered. Maybe in Resistance 2, we'll see.
  
  But as far as this one goes, probably the best thing going for it were the weapons. They are really 
 cool. In the first playthrough, you get your hands on a nice variety of some really cool weapons. 
 Each of them has their own standard or special functions, which makes at least one of them perfect 
 for each given situation. The nice thing about this game is that it allows you to carry all of 
 them at the same time, instead of only allowing you to have two guns at a time...
  
  The gameplay moves at a good pace, keeping the action going for as long as it takes to run out 
 of ammo, then giving you a minute to get caught up on things.
  
  I really liked it, and will definitely play through it at least once more before the sequel comes 
 out (you get new weapons available after the first playthrough) . Looking forward to R2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codeye1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is about these mutant/aliens called the Chimera which first appeared in 
 Russia then after breaking out start to conquer the world. The game is set in England after the 
 Chimera have conquered it. You play as an American soldier called Nathan Hale who arrives in England 
 with a company of American soldiers to support the Brits but they were all destroyed by the Chimera 
 in York. Somehow Nathan Hale survives an attack from Chimera insects that infect people and turn 
 them into Chimera. He basically becomes superhuman because he gets some Chimeran powers, i. e. regeneration. 
 He then travels through the country and defeats the Chimera.
  
  Gameplay...
  The enemies are quite hard to take down so you are forced to try for a few head shots. The reload 
 time is a bit too fast but one could argue that he does have superhuman abilities. Most of the 
 time you are alone against a relentless army and when you do get some help they end up dead in 
 a few seconds which is a bit horrible, so you are basically left as a one man army (typical in 
 FPS games) . The AI for the Chimera is great because they don't stand still and let you kill them 
 unlike other games.
  
  Online...
  The online for the game is insanely huge. 40 players all shoved into a small map, great for death 
 matches.
  
  My conclusion is that Resistance is great game and I can't wait for Resistance 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcviper
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  the bad: story is unrefined, gameplay is a bit linear, having a british girl tell the story is 
 stupid, leaves many questions unanswered.
  
  ok so far..
  
  The good: gameplay gets the blood pumping and is intense, various enemies keeps gameplay fresh, 
 best launch title graphics ever, enemies are awesome, tons of different weapons allows for different 
 gameplay styles, online modes are varied and innovative, tons of medals and badges to earn, good 
 character customization, level design is great and art direction is fantastic, loads of on screen 
 action and characters, effects are cool, ending is climactic, great vehicle levels, tight controls.
 
  
  Resistance fall of man is an easy game to recommend to anyone with a ps3.
  ........................
  ............
  buy this game if you already havent
  ..............
 
  ........
  .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalmaster12
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:08 am PT
Review:  RFOM is one of the best games I have played to date. A great graphics engine, a wide variety of 
 weapons, and very agressive AI add up to make this revolutionary shooter what it is.
  
  The campaign mode is pretty good, with a decent length and AI that is very unique. Unlike other 
 AI, who would normally not bother trying to kill you while you're behind cover, the AI in RFOM 
 is incredibly aggressive. You can run, but you can't hide, because they'll just run right up to 
 you and try to kill you. The blood effects in the game are also amazing as well.
  
  The multiplayer mode is the best component of the game. There are map settings that aren't in the 
 single player campaign, and the machine guns have an improved rate of fire for fast-paced action. 
 There are several game modes, and the addition of the voice chat feature makes the multiplayer 
 mode amazing. You might be playing for up to 3 hours at a time.
  
  The only thing I don't like about RFOM is the fact that some of the enemies are copied off of other 
 games. The scorpion-like creatures, for example, are copied off of Half Life 2. If the game had 
 all original content, then I might have given it a higher score. Either way, this doesn't really 
 hinder your enjoyment of the game.
  
  RFOM is a solid game with great AI, blood effects, sound, and animation. The best part is the multiplayer 
 mode, which supports up to a massive 40 players. Get this game if you like highly addictive games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLYDOD
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is an FPS set in an alternate history where the Soviet Union built a wall 
 around their empire, during this time a virus infected humans and turned them into the Chimera, 
 a bunch of great big monsters who are superior to Humans. The Chimera slowly spread across Russia 
 and destroyed entire cities over night. (Thats a general overview of the story, I might have been 
 wrong about it but that's basically the backstory of how the events in the game came to happen)
 
  
  Anyway, you play as Nathan Hale, an American Soldier sent to England to help repel the Chimeran 
 invasion. I'll stop talking about the story now, it's a good one that keeps you intrested and wanting 
 to carry on playing, it isn't exactly unique but it is good.
  
  The gameplay is brilliant, the game feels quite fast paced and rarely has a dull moment, the enemies 
 put up quite a fight and really give you the impression that they are superior to the other soldiers. 
 The weapon arsenal is very impressive and continues to show the creativity of Insomniac when it 
 comes to weapons. They range from your basic Assualt Rifle and Shotgun to Mine Launchers and Rifles 
 that can shoot through walls and deploy barriers for you to hide behind.
  
  The graphics aren't exactly impressive, but considering this game was realeased nearly two years 
 ago they are quite good. For a PS3 launch title they are quite good looking. 
  
  The multiplayer is fun and additive, there is a digree of customisation with what your multiplayer 
 charecter looks like and a reward system that can add to it's appeal.
  
  Overall Resistance: Fall of Man is a very good FPS, where it realeased today it would maybe not 
 be as impressive, but you have to keep in mind this was a PS3 launch title and is nearly two years 
 old. I reccomend anyone who is a fan of first person shooters to get this game, the graphics might 
 look dated but the gameplay is still alot of fun and with multiplayer, co-op and a lengthy single 
 player campaign that puts up a challenge you'll be playing this one for a good deal of time.
  
  I haven't really got much bad stuff to say about this game other than that the story could 
 have been a little more unique and it could have been told with in game cutscenes rather than pictures 
 with commentary 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raujj-ka
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is a brilliant example of an FPS. Yeah it was a bit difficult to start with but when 
 you get used to it it's a pretty neeto game. 
  Basically it's like your generic alien themed FPS; you're this random soldier who gets sent into 
 an impossible situation. You eventually end up facing the wrath of some alien mutating virus which 
 makes you change to become the enemy. Except you're either by some out of this world fluke immune 
 to the virus or you blend with the virus and become superhuman. 
  Well in Resistance it's pretty much that template. The guy's name is Nathan Hale, an American soldier 
 sent to help the Brits fight off these aliens, the Chimera. He came into support Europe in the 
 war against these Chimera and eventually gets attacked by theses bugs that carry the mutagen which 
 turns you into a Chimera. No one is meant to wake for ages after the bugs get them but Hale woke 
 up almost immediately. Throughout the game he starts to become more and more like a Chimera/human 
 hybrid, still looking human but gaining Chimera traits.
  Now about the game itself. It is quite difficult and unfortunately you will die a lot on mission 
 1. However once you get used to the game it becomes much much simpler. The enemies don't go down 
 too quick sadly it seems you have to almost empty a clip in one alien to kill it. Unfortunately 
 your health will be bashed up a lot too if you just go running willy nilly at the opponents. The 
 graphics are quite neeto too but I think this game focussed more on the AI because the enemies 
 were pretty adaptive. If you stayed too long on one area one would come round and try to pop you 
 in the bak of the head. The storyline was quite gripping like in most alien themed FPS games but 
 the characters were altogether 2D like in most alien themed FPS games. All in all though I found 
 the game a lot of fun and it is worth the money I would have paid for it if I bought it instead 
 of just renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastiffchild
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  A year or so after first playing through (and after the server wars of 07) the full package of Resistance 
 is far more rewarding than it felt at first sight-yes first multi-brown sight.
  
  Insomniac should be proud of their effort to get it out for launch and it now gives the most reliable 
 online experience of any of the earlier shooters on the PS3. Fair enough it's nothing innovative 
 in terms of what's offered to punters with the usual multi player online options (OK-comfort gaming) but 
 the community is strong and there's less backstabbing than the casual player will find in most 
 games of this kind.
  
  The single player campaign could have been more difficult on the basic setting but the refreshing 
 storyline , great enemy and The Chimera's fabulous weapons (gotta love The Bullseye and Hedgehogs) make 
 for great replays as the diff gets cranked up. Fair play for making Nathan Hale one of the less 
 typical (read fugly) leading men in recent memory and for having some non-cringe worthy dialogue 
 throughout.
  
  With Resistance Two looming (judging by the screenshots in every way) I think the first game stands 
 up pretty well. It's no Mona lisa but does exactly what you want-delivers big bangs from the weapons, 
 jumps from the Chimera and some of the longest running clans on the PSN due to getting all the 
 problems out of the way while the system was finding it's feet too.
  
  Stood up to the test of time better than Cliff Richard in a cryo-chamber. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 9:35 am PT
Review:  Who said fighting monsters with futuristic guns is boring? Well, i didn't, and Resistance Fall 
 Of Man certainly doesn't. A russian goverment has sent out a plague of monsters and aliens across 
 the world to devour the earth, and you, a british army sargent, must stop them.
  
  In the game, you find your self in amazing scenes, and some scary moments, battelting terrific 
 looking and freaky crestures! The graphics are stunning, and the monsters scare the living **** 
 out of you! Resistance has a great story line, and amazing voice acting from the cast, although 
 inbetween levels, the cut scenes are a bit boring at first, but gets interesting on the way. The 
 only really massive let down in the fightin skills. Gun play is good, but in normal combat with 
 your fists, and your knives, it is very low tech, and doesnt seem as effective as the gun. Throwing 
 grenades are effective and fun, but are not that easy to use, and sometimes you find yurself blown 
 up because of grenade mistakes!
  
  The monsters are also very good. You get little creepy crawlies, unarmed but fearsome aliens, and 
 alien with futuritic guns. The gameplay is hard, but the storyline proves this to be mixed in. 
 A challenging game, a must see for any great Playstation3 gamers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  First person shooters are a dime a dozen these days, and making a game that stands out above the 
 crowd is getting harder and harder with so many other teams attempting the same. Innsomniac Games 
 seems to have taken a different aproach and taken the best aspects of titles that are already available 
 into one game to deliver a great looking, intense shooter with plenty of vehicle and weapon variety 
 to boot, making Resistance: Fall of man one of the best launch titles available for the playstation 
 3.
  
  The story setting for Resistance takes place in an alternate version of the world war 2 era where 
 a race of hideous creatures made from humans known as the Chimera explode out of Russia overwhelming 
 Europe before turning it's attention to the UK, which is where the game starts. You play Nathan 
 Hale, one of the american reinforcements sent to help the UK fight back against the hideous invaders
 
  
  The gameplay to Resistance isn't really special in any way, and the controls are conventional, 
 but it is fun. The game is full of the typical things you expect to see from an alternate era sci-fi 
 shooter, alien weapons, spike grenades, world war 2 human weapons, vehicle sections (both human 
 and Chimera) , boss fights etc. Nathan has a health bar split into four chunks, each of which will 
 regenerate damage between firefights similar to Halo's shield system, but once it goes through 
 a section you must find a healing item to get it back. Taking a leaf from Perfect Dark, all of 
 Resistance's weapons have a secondary fire mode that might be a grenade launcher on the bottom 
 of a machine gun, to a tagger that makes your bullets home in to give an extra degree of strategy 
 and options to the fighting. Nathan can also keep every weapon he picks up in which there are about 
 8 and half a dozen grenade variations meaning the only thing you are limited by are Nathans ammo 
 stock. As stated before nothing to original, but the variation of influences pulled together make 
 for a highly entertaining experience.
  
  Resistance looks like what the PS3 promised with some amazing environments including traveling 
 through Manchester Cathedral and the heart of London with great detail and designs. Having said 
 that though there are areas where the game seems slightly rushed for example the way the Chimera 
 die is always the same weak slump over to the same position, no blood sprays and other minor details 
 like how pixelated the edges of cardboard on the floor looks that slightly undermine the games 
 otherwise greatly impressive visuals.
  
  Resistance has some great voice acting of both american and british accents, even if they are sterotypical 
 on both sides. The games story sections are narrated the whole way through and it certainly loses 
 nothing for it. The sound effects are also great with some loud and intense feeling weapon and 
 explosive noises so no complaints there.
  
  The game will last maybe 10 - 12 hours depending on the speed in which you go, I got somewhat hooked 
 on looking around at all the backdrops so it took me slightly longer. There are plenty of in game 
 achievements to find in the single player for doing different things which can unlock new character 
 models / uniforms to use online. Speaking of which, with 40 player online multiplayer, Resistance 
 packs plenty of punch to draw people back and certainly supplys value for money, though you could 
 complete it in a rental you would be missing out in the long run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nellyg619
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Resistance is really a good game for many reasons. Firstly the shooting mechanics are great and 
 although are nothing new or innovative, they're still solid and feel similiar to other great shooting 
 games, which is by no means a bad thing. However Resistance puts itself out of the crowd by creating 
 a new and inventive weapons aswell as a creative storyling, although personally i dont feel the 
 storyline is the best around and doesn't seem to capture me in the game like so many others have 
 done, although there is definitely potential
  The graphics and sound are great aswell, especially if u have a great sound setup, meaning explosions 
 can come from all over the place. However voice acting from the main character is quite poor as 
 he barely says anything and shows no emotion and personality, meaning the main character is so 
 easy to forget. The graphics are beautiful, especially in the level design which faithfully seems 
 to recreate England perfectly.
  The single player campaign is good and slowly starts to ramp on the difficulty towards the end 
 but starts to feel a tad boring tbh simply because of the limited weapons the game offers you in 
 the campaign for so long. However the AI are smart and do provide competition, especially on the 
 harder difficulty levels and it's even more fun with a friend to play co-op. Once done you could 
 always go back and complete all the various extra tasks to obtain unlockables, although tbh there's 
 not that anyhting special to unlock and u'll be reli bored eventually from the campaign.
  It's the online though that reli sets Resistance apart tbh, it's so fun and i have spent countless 
 of hours playing the online just to up my rank and prove i'm the best. It definitely gives u constant 
 satisfaction to rank up and achieve all the different medals possible.
  Overall Resistance is a good game for single player but a great game for multiplayer, however whats 
 most exciting is the potential in the game to be a true force in future sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  The game is set in England at the time of World War 2 but in the game World War 2 never happened 
 but an Alien Invasion had occured to take its place. These creatures/aliens are called the Chimera. 
 They have captured half of the world and are now entering the UK. You are Nathan Hale, an American 
 Soldier sent to help the English in defending their country.
  
  The whole story is played through an officer interacts with Hale in his missions. During the game, 
 you will fight the Chimera through the streets of England and struggle to win a losing war. 
  
  Resistance Fall Of Man is unique from other First Person Shooters with its dynamic design and 
 innovative gameplay. The A. I in some shooters is very weak and don't interact with the game as 
 much as Resistance Fall Of Man does. The A. I of both your allies and your enemies is very sharp 
 and smoothe. Other features of the game like co-op work fine and keep you in the action. The online 
 feature of the game lets upto 16 people play in a variety of maps all of which are located in England 
 in the campaign. There's a free for all, team and capture the flag matches in the game. In multi-player 
 mode you can play as the humans or the Chimerans. Each have special abilities.
  
  Resistance Fall Of Man is a First Person Shooter exclusive for the PS3 and is a unique game in 
 every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedray
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is an awesome FPS. The campain is not to easy, not to hard ,and not to short. It's pretty 
 much just right. However the online vs mode could use some work. First of all, when you play a 
 ranked game and choose team games you don't get to pick what kind off game you want to play. It 
 is completey random. I found myself playing like 5 meltdown games before I was finally lucky enough 
 to get a capture the flag game which is what I wanted in the first place. Then the game doesn't 
 let you choose which team you are on. Usually it is very missmatched. There were a lot of times 
 where the opposing team consisted of all 4 star generals while the team I was stuck with had all 
 privates with the exception of me and I was the most experienced player on the team. As you can 
 guess that was a one sided battle. Then there are certain weapons in the game that are completely 
 useless for multiplayer. The flamethrower can't kill anything unless you use it's alternate fire 
 which drains almost all your ammo so it's only good for one use. Then there is the arc charger. 
 it is painfully slow to fire and over heats quick. It only takes three shots to kill somebody but 
 if the opponent simply strafes you will never kill him before he kills you. Last but not least, 
 the glitches. There were many times I should have killed somebody but it wouldn't count. For example 
 I snuck behind a guy and shot him in the back of the head point blank with a shotgun and he didn't 
 die. I then continued to shoot him with the shotgun at point blank range. He turned around after 
 I got about three directs hits of and he began shooting back and STILL killed me and survived. 
 Another instance I shot a guy point blank in the face with a rocket and it killed me and not him! 
 I have hundreds of instances like this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chakawn
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  For a launch line game it was most certainly a mind blower. To be honest this game was one of the 
 best launch line games I have played in a while. Getting a first glance at next generation graphics 
 were amazing and the experience was memorable. Although I have only two complaints with this game 
 1. The multiplayer online really wasn't that great because of no second player hosting abilities. 
 2. The story line was a bit of a clich for my liking. If some of you are thinking why I found 
 the story a bit annoying due to being somewhat of a clich was that the whole "aliens trying to 
 destroy/take over the earth" is now a bit overused. But over all the game was great. I found that 
 there were simalarities between the humans and the aliens BUT thankfully they had different guns 
 ammo and ect. When I play a game I like the fact that the opposing Sci-fi team has cooler stronger 
 guns. I like the idea that you can play through the game with human guns and to get a bit of replay 
 value out of this game you can play through it a second time using the chimera weaponary. Also 
 now for an unbeatable price of $29.99 you can't miss out!! So here is the over view . . . . . 
 
  
  Gameplay: 9.0/10.0
  Story: 8.0/10.0
  Value10.0/10.0
  Graphics 9.0/10.0
  _______________
  Overall: 9.0/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megalomaniac01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a first person shooter that truly represents. Some gamers would find 
 this game to be a bit lacking in many story elements, but the multiplayer is superb! Insomniac 
 games has a reputation thanks to the Ratchet and Clank franchise and this is a different side of 
 Insomniac. This game is not like the Ratchet and Clank games of Insomniac, in fact, its a completely 
 new ball game for Insomniac. You will not find silliness or comedic dialog but instead, a well 
 made first person shooter. Insomniac has had a nack for making awesome weapons and Resistance is 
 no let down to that! The story is a little dull do to the fact you are viewing basically a flashback 
 of Nathan Hales life during this point of his life, but the fantastic online battles are some of 
 the best on the Ps3 so far. Sadly there is no online co-op but there is a split-screen co-op. Overall, 
 Resistance: Fall of Man has its flaws but makes up for it with outstanding gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  I just played it. Been almoast 2 years since launch so i thought it was "old game" because i have 
 played all new shooters, Call of duty 4, Gears, Crysis..
  
  Well it did suprise me. This is only game where you need to use granades to get going.. Granades 
 are pretty fun. Guns are dull at beginning, but you get better guns like Sniper which stops time 
 while aiming, some weird needle shooter gun which will launch bot to kill enemies and other stuff 
 like that.
  
  Enemies are pretty hard, well the game is pretty hard. I died at least 10 times. And im Css "pro" 
 and play shooters lot. But its not hard as... Devil May Cry at first playtrough when you havent 
 played Ps2 ever...
  
  Your allies are pretty stupid, get in the way sometimes, but only sometimes. They also always die 
 if you dont help them. At the end its gets pretty bad.
  
  Well there is tank, car, stalker to ride so its not all shooting..
  Story keeps you interested.
 
  I havent yet played multiplayer, so cant say enything about that.
  Its fun to play with your friend, after finishing game once. You get new waepons.
  Sure you if 
 you see this at low price, pick it. But i still prefer to play Cod 4 or wait Resistance 2 or Killzone 
 2. If you are waiting for Resistance 2 you should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I never have been really a fan for the first person shooters but the fact that this is actually 
 the genre that dominates now in the ps3 i have been somewhat obligated to play games like that 
 (dark sector, turok, etc.) . But I have to tell that this is an excellent game. I can really say 
 that the only other great person shooter was GoldenEye for the N64, but Resistance really matches 
 it. For being a game with 2 years old it looks fantastic. 
  The gameplay is smooth and the weapons are great. You really use all of them because they are all 
 useful. The story is interesting and when you finish it you want to know what happened (sure this 
 questions will be revealed in Resistance 2 that will be available in november) . 
  Also, the mutiplayer is fun and very addicting. There are different modes to play and all of them 
 are fun.
  I really recommend this game to anyone. It's sure a buy and will keep you playing it for hours 
 and hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Falkien06
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:26 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man features a multiplayer mode for 40 players.
  The game features melee attacks, and the motion sensing. The game developers also tried to add 
 oldstyle weapons and futuristic weapons corresponding to the storyline. The game also has the feature 
 of ranked and custom matches which is good to have fun and really play the online game to gain 
 awards and etc. While playing online you will either be assigned to the Human or Chimera species, 
 each of which has its strengths and Weaknesses.
  
  I liked this game but it doesn't really compete with Call of Duty 4 in some sense and the controls 
 are much different. The damage isn't that good as well you will have to shoot the opponent for 
 a while. Resistance sets up the same PlayStation Network ID so you can add any impressive players 
 you would like to play again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-m92
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  I would recomend Resistance: fall of man to any owner of a PS3 out there who hasn't already bought 
 this game. 
  
  Insomniac have created a game with an imaginative storyline, varied and intelligent enemies and 
 a huge array of fun-to-shoot weapons which you use as you roam around Britain fighting off the 
 alien invaders. The fun is doubled when engaging in co-op with a friend and work together to complete 
 the games harder difficulty settings.
  
  I have to admit, the allied AI is lacking and the multiplay needs a bit of work, but is simple 
 to use. These are only minor issues that insomniac are sure to correct in its next title, Resistance 
 2. 
  
  Overall Resistance: fall of man is a very enjoyable experience that you will want to go through 
 again and again. This will make you even more hungry for its upcoming sequel, which is sure to 
 be even better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajay_4400
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of man is a Solid Shooter and an above average Launch Title for any console to 
 date. I refer to it as the PS3 equivalent of Halo. Mainly because the reason many people bought 
 it was because it was the only FPS to be launched with the PS3 and people bought it because of 
 that, and like Halo I was surprised how good it was. The first thing I noticed was how EPIC and 
 detailed the game was. The first levels although probably one of the hardest parts in the game 
 was easily one of the best parts to play through and there are a lot of good parts in the game.
 
  
  The game offers plenty of different ways to play and easily has some of the best weapons in any 
 FPS, and all have some pretty creative twist to it such as the Hailstorm which launches Hundreds 
 of crystals that ricochet off of everything, while the secondary fire shoots the rest of the clip 
 out as a floating auto turret, although you will find yourself using the Carbine most of the time 
 due to a lack of ammunition for other weapons.
  
  There are vehicle parts in the game that are not used to the fullest of their ability as they are 
 short, but they do offer a good break from the constant onslaught through the Chimera on foot and 
 are over all some of the best parts of the game.
  
  The Chimera are the guys that you will be fighting against throughout the game. There are many 
 distinct variety of Chimera and all have their own strengths and weaknesses. Although the standard 
 hybrid warrior is what you will normally be up against throughout the game. This isn't a bad thing 
 as the AI is solid; they will try and flank you, shoot from cover. As for you allies they are really 
 only there as cannon fodder, every solider except for Cartwright is downright useless. It's up 
 to you to finish the job, kill the Chimera and unless there packing a Sniper Rifle there a waste 
 of time.
  
  As for the story aspect of the game not much is revealed at all. All your really know is that WW2 
 never happened but the Chimera did. The Chimera started in Russia and quickly swept over all of 
 Europe and Asia. While playing the game you will pick up intelligence documents that reveal little 
 snippets of information about the Chimera or what had been happening in Europe. Apart from that 
 you left in the dark on everything else.
  
  The Multiplayer aspect of the game is great IN THEROY. Having a 40 player online is great but when 
 you add the ability to have 1 shot kills and unlimited ammo, custom matches all become Team Deathmatches 
 with unlimited ammo and one shot kills, with everything but the Carbine and Sniper Rifle disabled. 
 Good Luck trying to find a game that's not Deathmatch or Team Deathmatch. Although ranked are available, 
 for when you get sick of that same guy nailing you over and over again.
  
  A decent shooter that will provide many hours of game play, and is still worth buying even with 
 Resistance: United We Fall just on the horizon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: verted45
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man is a fun shooter with cool weapons and Fun multiplayer. It is a very good 
 shooter with solid controls and running around shooting things is fun. The I personally don't play 
 that many shooters but I thoroughly enjoyed this one. The games lengthy single player campaign 
 is really fun and takes you on a journey but the multiplayer takes the game to a whole new level 
 battling it out with 47 other people. These battles are crazy and the best time you will have. 
 It may not be completely original and may be repetetive at times but that does not affect how enjoyable 
 it is. Split screen co-op Makes this title even better as you can make your way through the campaign 
 with a friend or three.
  
  I highly recommend this game to anyone who wants to shoot everything that comes in sight and play 
 massive multiplayer games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man, was the highly anticipated launch title for the Playstation 3, and seemingly 
 the only very good reason to buy one at the time. Insomniac had done it once again, coming up with 
 a fun game, with great online, just like their other series, Ratchet and Clank. Unfortunately, 
 R: FOM has no where near the replayability that R&C does.
  
  The campaign isn't exactly user friendly to start off. That's the price of realism. In the first 
 mission, the player's character, Sgt. Nathan Hale is a normal human, and therefore, cannot regain 
 any health, forcing the player to play it safe, and not run and gun. It's not until the second 
 mission, when Hale is infected that the game eases up a bit, and lets the player run and gun, because 
 they can regain health. Another knock against the campaign, is that since most of your buddies 
 are killed extremely easy, you're by yourself against the Chimara often. Because of that the campaign 
 is more enjoyable playing co-op with a buddy, so you at least have one teammate with you at all 
 times.
  
  The best part of the game, is the online multiplayer. It's just simply fun. All players can regain 
 health, you collect weapons while you go around the map, etc. Online is really the only reason 
 that I see to keep it, especially since you can get through campaign in less than a day if you 
 wanted to.
  
  Simply put, the game is just plain fun to play, unfortunately the campaign is short and better 
 with a buddy playing with you, and the game has little replayability after you have beaten campaign. 
 It may not be some people's cup of tea, so for some, you may want to rent this game first, and 
 others (namely big-time FPS fans) can buy it straight up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bl4ckh34rt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  When I first switched on the PS3 and popped in Resistance, I was expecting the same old first-person 
 shooter similar to that which I have played in the past. To say "I was sorely mistaken" is an understatement. 
 This game is definitely one of the best in the genre.
  
  Resistance satisfies players on so many levels. The alternate-history feel of this game is something 
 rarely seen in the genre, already making it that much more interesting. The story itself is very 
 intriguing, and is told fairly well in my opinion. The enemies are original, and are smarter than 
 most, so you stay on your toes throughout the campaign. When's the last time you played a first 
 person shooter in which your enemy actively set traps and schemed against you? And then there are 
 the weapons. Resistance has the weapons that every shooter must have - the assault rifle, the shotgun, 
 the sniper rifle. But then there is a plethora of peculiar weapons the likes of which have never 
 been seen before. Those who have played the game know what I mean when I say the weapons don't 
 take long to love. Possibly the only drawback of this game is the development of the characters, 
 which doesn't really matter when compared to everything else.
  
  After taking it all into consideration, I can say that Resistance: Fall of Man is just one of those 
 games you simply must have if you own a PlayStation 3. I eagerly await the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zfiftyfives
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 13, 2008 9:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is simply one of the best first person shooters on the playstion 3, period. 
 The ability it has to suck you in, and keep you sucked in is something that alot of stories lack 
 in the genre of video games, especially on the playstation 3. The game throws you in fiery hell 
 battling aliens that harvest the bodies of humans, so they can be turned into the creatures that 
 captured them. The creatures are hideous and really scary looking, which provides a really enjoyable 
 time when u are blowing them into pieces. Also, it provides very good cut scenes that educate you 
 on your invaders and the character which you play. The AI in the games lacks a little bit, such 
 as when you fire on one of the creatures, and there are alot of his buddies around him sometimes 
 his buddies just stand there and provide no assists. The multiplayer modes on playstation network 
 are your usually fps modes, like deathmatch and team deathmatch, but it brings, i think, the best 
 online fps to the playstation 3. There are always a good number of people online playing too. My 
 only gripe is that the graphics are not that great for next gen; they just dont reach the bar for 
 what you would expect to see on the playstation 3. But this was lauch title for the ps3, and I 
 think they will have that fixed for Resistance 2, which should awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has been out over a year now and for some reason i just picked it up. It really 
 did not look that impressive to me when i saw trailers. But i finally got it and in my opinion 
 its the best FPS for the ps3. Yes even better than COD4! If you don't have a ps3 your missing out 
 on this one!
  
  Graphics: Very detailed environments. Guns look great. It is just visually stunning. Some of the 
 best graphics of the ps3 games to date and this was one of the first shooters for the ps3.
  
  Sound: The guns sound very good. Explosions are awesome. Pretty much every aspect of the sound 
 is flawless. Top notch!
  
  Game Play: Not much to say.. only that this game is so addictive to play. I don't know what it 
 is about it but I have already played through the game twice and still enjoying it. I just love 
 the plot of it sort of the terminator theme in a way.
  
  Controls: Just right. Feels smooth
  
  Is it worth buying?: DEFINITELY!!!
  
  Replay Value: 
 Very High
  
  My Overall Score: 10/10
  
  Can not wait for resistance 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prinzofpersia
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 10, 2008 3:07 am PT
Review:  ok.. first of all.. my cousin first started playin' it on his PS3.. and it was pretty hard in the 
 beginning... but after he played it a little bit. it sounded easy for'em... and whne i started playin' 
 the game... i liked the style.. new unheard-of weapons that can blow ur mind away... and excellent 
 graphics... but what I didn't like is the storyline and the characters.. the story had no depth.. and 
 didn't understand it well.. and the hero.. nick.. is pretty silent most of the game and never talk 
 much.. and i thought at first that he was a bad-ass hero.. and the ending was a bit confusing.. why 
 was he arrested and the soldiers pointed their weapons at him.. when they looking for him at the 
 first place.. and was (killed in action) as the military thought after the tower exploded!?!? oh 
 well... gotta play Resistance 2 to find out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  From the makers of the hit series Ratchet & clank and Spyro, Insomniac Brings Resistance: fall 
 of man.
  This game is a launch title for the Ps3 and probably the best launch title in history.
  You'll 
 play as Nathan Hail, A quiet and mysterious man who has the task of ridding the world of the ruthless 
 Chimera, an alien species that suddenly decides to wipe out the human race.
  It has a long, exciting campaign which lasts up to 20 hours or so.
  The environments look stunningly 
 breathtaking, and the graphics are great. (especially when it snows!) despite very few graphical 
 issues.
  The enemy AI is very intelligent, and merciless. they literally charge you the whole game. it makes 
 you stay on your toes through the entire game. (especially on super human difficulty!)
  There is a wide variety of weapons to choose from that both look and sound great!
  It has pretty 
 high replay value considering co-op and a multiplayer of up to 40! (the next installment will have 
 62!)
  
  well with all that is said I must come to a conclusion.
  Overall my rating is !) , no, 10! why? 
  
  graphics 10/10
  gameplay 10/10
  sound 10/10
 
  tilt 10/10
  value 10/10
  story 9/10
  AI 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oblivionck
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is an instant classic in my opinion. It delivers all the great aspectes 
 of other great FPS into one great game. I thought that the unique Chimera enemies were ver y well 
 made. There was good variety among them. Dont you hate games that have only one type of enemy? 
 Also, i really liked the differnt guns you gained throughout the game. the graphics were pretty 
 damn good as well. 
  
  the only downside to this game is that its on the hard side. Its not one of those hards where it 
 makes the game funner becasue of the challenge- its one of those games were some levels just piss 
 you of so much you want to slam your controller on the floor with all your might (but cant because 
 its expensive and i dont want to spend $60 on a new one) . So. all in all, its a damn good game 
 and should not be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Destazio
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  resistance is the best shooter i ever played. first of all i really love the choice of weapons 
 and that u can hold all of them at a time unlike some shooters. yur playing as hale who is resistant 
 to the chimera virus therfore making him more advanced to fight alone against the chimera especially 
 in dark underground tunnels. in ths game u will face and fight so many enemies big and small and 
 using a tank, jeep, and a chimera vehicle known as the stalker is really fun and powerful. u can 
 play on easy medium and hard and u get rewards for completing tasks, defeating enemies, and yur 
 surrounding objects in a certain way. some people say they wont get the game because it "frighting". 
 well it really isnt. at times if yur not paying attention then things will pop out on u but only 
 on rare occasions. although i do not recommend it to anyone who is easily frightend. unlike other 
 shooters the story mode is worth playing over and over again due to its rewards. sometimes it might 
 be frustrating but all in alll this is the best shooter i ever played for any console. i recommend 
 this game to naybody who wants a great 1rst shooter. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblast
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Really worth to play. good story, good maps, coop play. Reunite those and you get Resistance: Fall 
 of Man.
  
  This is the best FPS i played so far, Haze, COD 4, none come close to Resistance. Solid story even 
 if your character doesn't speak much. Weaponry is diverse. Each weapon has it's own way to use, 
 you will rapidly find your favorite one. 
  
  The levels are well design and have their own set of ambiance. You will find a lot of object to 
 hide behind while reloading, but watch out, couple of them are destructible. You also not the only 
 one covering, the enemy AI is good enough so they try to run and hide if they feel suppressed by 
 enemy fire. They will try to stay hidden and shoot from time to time.
  
  The multiplayer is a strong point. Good maps using the same sets of theme used thought the singleplayer 
 campaign. Speaking of the campaign, it offer the best "according to me" play mode ever . . . Coop 
 mode. You can play with one of your friend thought the whole campaign. The enemy are slightly tougher 
 but with 2 human player they stand no chance.
  
  The downsides now. They are not really downsides but more like "Things that could have been improved"
 
  
  Music. Yes music, the sound track is good but that's it. It's missing energy in it, something like 
 Haze.
  
  Chimera. Main enemies, get use to them you will fight them a lot. It remember me of Gears of Wars 
 which i really didn't like for his "hide behind box - Kill the hordes of monsters - Go next room". 
 
  
  Backup. Yes your partners don't help you much. They are there, they shoot, what are they shooting 
 at you ask me ? i don't know. most of the time they are just holding the trigger down to keep enemy 
 hidden while you go flank. Although it's not so bad because at least they are not killing everything 
 before you see them like some other games (Another reference to Haze) . the middle should be Call 
 of Duty 4.
  
  Overall it a good game and it really worth buying it. Still don't regret my choice. In the future 
 it will be known as a classic of the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Genre: Sci-Fi FPS
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a fantastic FPS, but never really goes beyond that. There is alot of 
 good stuff in this game, allowing it to rank among some of the best, like Call of Duty 4 and Halo. 
 
  
  You play as Nathan Hale, a US soldier in the 1950s who is sent to launch an attack on the great 
 alien force, the Chimera. These beasts have taken over nearly all of Europe and Asia, and you end 
 up being the sole survivor through the experience. The story is pretty good, actually. Just another 
 alien-invasion vs. humanity shooter.
  
  First off, the graphics. The visuals are excellent, but not as much as other next-gen games. I 
 know, I know, it seems that this game is being compared to others too much, but if you play it, 
 you'll really see why. The character designs aren't too detailed, pretty bland actually, but the 
 character models (mainly the aliens) look great, as well as the environments. Chimera are designed 
 well, with a solid amount of enemy variety. Also, they're just really cool.
  
  Then there's the gameplay. Its standard first-person shooting with all of the grenades and guns 
 from the era. The weapons are pretty heavy and powerful, and the shooting works well, although 
 a little loose and wild at first. The selection of these weapons is another good part of the game. 
 You'll be wielding guns from combat shotguns to alien blasters. Different weapons have different 
 functions, snipers have the ability to slow down time for a few seconds while you take aim, while 
 other guns can blast through walls and ricochet bullets off of the walls. The controls may feel 
 unfamiliar to FPS fans when it comes to aiming, meleeing and throwing grenades at first, but you 
 get used to it quickly. All in all, the combat is pretty fast-paced and powerful, making it a fun 
 experience.
  
  There are some other things about Resistance. Every fellow soldier around you almost always ends 
 up dying, making you feel somewhat alone. But this is partially due to the plot, in which you are 
 of course the lone survivor. 
  
  There is the Co-Op campaign mode, which makes the game much less lonely and more fun, but still 
 feels a bit shallow. Another big factor is the extreme difficulty. Enemies take alot of shots to 
 kill, and have very high and complicated AI. The health bar system works alright, since it does 
 recharge itself some after you've taken damage, and there are items to recharge it as well. You 
 end up dying quite a bit on harder difficulties though.
  
  The levels are designed pretty well. Halo-style vehicle levels are really enjoyable, you can drive 
 jeeps and enemy Stalkers (four-legged machines similar to those in Lost Planet) and the weapons 
 work well here too. Boss battles against huge Goliaths, Stalkers and Widowmakers are challenging 
 and entertaining, but don't utilize a lot of combat puzzles most of the time. For instance, you 
 won't be spending much time figuring out their weak spots or what you have to do to destroy their 
 armor, mostly just blasting the hell out of the enemy until they blow up. 
  
  Multiplayer is a big part of this game, allowing you to play in extreme deathmatches with up to 
 40 other players online on a single map. You can choose to be a human or a Chimera; both have their 
 own advantages. Excellent. This is a must-play for shooter fans and PS3 owners.
  
  Pros:
  -Pretty good story of an alien invasion set in the 50s
  -Great and fast-paced FPS action with 
 good controls and cool alien enemies
  -Great and varied selection of guns
  -Fun co-op and amazing online multiplayer
  -Entertaining boss fights and vehicle levels
  -Great 
 looking designs and environments
  -Top sound effects
  
  Cons:
  -Character designs are bland and outdated
  -A bit too similar to Halo at times
  -Enemies are 
 extremely smart, quick, powerful and hard to kill
  -The health bar system is somewhat insufficient
  -Story is kind of unoriginal
  -Not much is 
 known about Nathan Hale, the main character
  -Shooting is a little loose, and controls are unfamiliar at first
  
  Gameplay: 9.3
  Graphics: 
 8.9
  Sound: 9.0
  Replay Value: 9.3
  Concept: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2008 9:03 am PT
Review:  I got Resistance: Fall of Man, last week. i keep reading about how everbody keep saying this was 
 the best first person shooter that they have played. so i had to give it a try. so when i first 
 put the disk in. i didn't know what the hell was going on here. then i started playing and things 
 started to fall into place. so i started thinking. this is a pretty damn good story going on here. 
 i loved the gameplay. it was really fun. you could use your guns. you could also use the chimeran 
 weapons. they had some pretty cool ones. they had one where you shot them with a tracker. and then 
 you fire, and your bullets would go straight to where you shot your tracker. the co op play was 
 just amazing. i loved playing this game with another person. the campaign had a pretty good length. 
 the environments just looked perfect. i have not played online so i don't know what to say about 
 that. but im pretty sure that it would kick ass. i would think that any first person shooter fan 
 is going to love this game. you really need to give this one a try... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: randomqaz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Great game!!
  
  It has a very good storyline and good graphics.
  The split screen co op is very fun!! I wish more games had split screen co op. There are loads 
 of human and aliens to use in story and multiplayer modes and you unlock more when you complete 
 it on a difficulty setting (that you haven't yet completed it on.)
  The multiplayer (on and offline) is very good. Chimera can use a special ability to see the enemy 
 no matter where he is and the humans are fun to use as well. The story mode does not take long 
 on easy mode but if you move up a few modes until you find one that suits you it will take quite 
 a long time to complete.
  There are some great human and alien veichle sections and some fun boss fights in the game as well!! 
 It is my favourite game on the PS3!
  I would strongly recomend buying it because there is nothing that I didn't like in it (apart from 
 2 glitches (getting on top of a lift and exploring loads of places that your not ment to go to 
 (this is not really such a bad thing though) and getting stuck at the bottom of a lift with no 
 way of getting up (I had to restart from the last checkpoint but there are lots of checkpoints 
 so it didn't really matter.) ) There have not been any multiplayer glitches (that I have found) 
 yet. It is an amazing game overall though and I enjoyed it alot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: makchady
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  The Ps3 has finally been released and yes it does have a killer app. Unfortunately, Resistance 
 has flown under the radar due to the Ps3's extremely steep price tag. I had the chance recently, 
 after getting a Ps3 $100 dollars off, to play this magnificent game, and i assure you that it can 
 compete with any other fps on the market.
  
  World War 2 is over-used, it's washed up, played out and needs to be canned for all of eternity 
 you may say. Well, the good folks at insomniac feel differently. 
  
  Resistance puts a spin on the WW2 theme and runs away with it. The single player campaign is undeniably 
 exhillerating. There is never a dull moment in this game. Enemies are aggressive and the battle 
 is consistantly moving forward, which makes for a very intense experience, especially if played 
 on an hdtv with surround sound. Gameplay wise Resistance literally is just as good as Call of Duty 
 4 or Halo 3. It is definitely a AAA title that has to be played to be believed. 
  
  The single player isnt perfect, the story is told through history channel esque still photos basically 
 and you run into the same generic enemy 75% of the time, but for a first in the series and for 
 the sheer fun of the game both issues are easily over-looked.
  
  Multiplayer in Resistance boasts up to 40 players online, which is unprecedented for console gaming. 
 The fast paced frenetic action found within the single player converts very well into multiplayer. 
 There are plenty of modes to play, some standard issue such as ctf and deathmatch and some new 
 and unique. 
  
  If it werent for sony's poor online service, which is incapable of sending in-game invites and 
 messages (prior to 2.4 firmware update) this game would have just as vibrant a community as say 
 halo or call of duty. It really is unfortunate because i wanted to love this game online but its 
 outdone by plenty of games on the 360 because xbl is the much better online system (no offense 
 fanboys but you know its true.
  
  When the day is over and i look back at my time with Resistance i cant help but compare it to the 
 top titles within the fps genre and it easily is in the same heavy-weight category as them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 3:38 pm PT
Review:  great graphics with simple and fun gameplay defines great part of resistance.
  the first time you play it really just sounds like the normal alien vs human shooter, but after 
 just a fews chapters you begin to feel the what great and unique shooter resistance is.
  so lets talk about what matters.
  what can resistance offer that other shooter usually cant?
 
  first of all a very challenging single player experience, the AI of the enemies are just as great 
 as the level designs.
  so usually in resistance you find yourself in a big area with a lot of diferrent ways to engage 
 the enemy, and here comes the great part, the enemy also takes benefits of the larges areas. so 
 the single player experience fells realistic, challenging and very fun, all in the same time.
 
  so no need to say that the replay value here is high.
  other cool thing that the campaign has a interesting diversification of battle, while through it 
 you will use tanks, cars and go a lot on foot while fighintg big enemies in amazing war scenarios.
 
  the multiplayer does a great job too, just misses the online co-op, a great pitty really.
  
  so conclunding resistance is not just a great game but a mustplay for all fans of the FPS genre.
 
  its amazing single player experience already makes worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: englentine
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:16 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I said it, I would say it again to. Hell, get me a guitar and I will write a song about how 
 this game kicks the hell out of the current FPS frontrunner. 
  Granted it does crib a few things from Microsofts cash cow, but it takes them and makes them into 
 a far better game. I had always been a little turned off by Halos repetitiveness. The go through 
 a level once and then back track out again? Nope not a lot for replay value in that little formula.
 
  This however takes the premise of an Alien invasion of Earth and runs with it. The story is exciting 
 and the cutscenes create enough emotion for you to care about what happens to the side characters.
 
  The cutscenes are nothing short of beautiful. The sound is incredible, I actually looked out my 
 window to see if it was really raining at one point. 
  The controls, quick to learn and very responsive. I had very little to complain about with this 
 game. 
  I have about 50 unfinished games, so I do not know when I will get around to playing it again. 
 I can say it is a keeper, and not one to be traded away. That is a rare find indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDhAmMe13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 27, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Pretty much, Resistance is an impressive game. And as I said, "Almost, but not quite." Its variety 
 of weapons make for an impressive games with all these electronic shields, homing tags, and slow 
 motion. Its armory is unique. It has a never-before-seen story with creativity and rich detail. 
 Read on for more detail on the game.
  
  Visuals:
  
  Here it doesn't disappoint at all. It is smooth and fluid. Very compelling. In some places it looks 
 almost life-like. Many things including characters and chimera are very well designed. One major 
 bad thing: Anything that dies falls with amazing physics, but looks stupid when completely fallen. 
 They first of all almost don't touch the ground. Plus they look like they are listening to mp3 
 players while sunbathing. Here is where it broke it all down.
  8.5 / 10
  
  Story:
  
  Simply, an amazing and very well driven story. It explains what the world could one day be like. 
 It focusses on the major disasters that could demolish the world and bring about the "Fall of Man" 
 as it is called by the game. Can't argue here. In a nutshell, this is the part where the game undoubtedly 
 excelled in.
  10 / 10
  
  Online:
  
  It's fine and to a huge extent fun. Truly enoyable, yet, I would like to point out to two bad points 
 in it. The first is the hellishly fast way the characters move with. The second is the very low 
 variety of game modes.
  7 / 10
  
  --------------------
  That is pretty much what I could review. They blew it with their mechanics.
  --------------------
 
  
  My score: 8.5 / 10
  GS score: 8.6 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenaue
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was the Playstation 3's first truly amazing game. Developed by Insomniac 
 Games, Resistance follows the story of Sergeant Nathan Hale, an American, one of the last American 
 soldiers, as he attempts to fight his way across Europe to try to find a way to destroy (and by 
 destroy, I mean completely and utterly annihilate) the enemy known as the Chimera. Taken from the 
 back of the box:
  
  There is no defense. There is no cure. Each of our casualties just increases their numbers. Russia 
 went dark over a year ago. Europe fell a few weeks later. The Chimera will reach the other continents 
 within days. It is July 11th, 1951. Amidst the ruins of England, U. S. and British forces take a 
 final stand
  
  There are two things that truly make this game stand out:
  1) This game was a launch title for the Playstation 3 that does NOT include GIANT ENEMY CRABS!!! 
 LolAll jokes aside, all you really have to do is HIT ITS WEAK POINT FOR MASSIVE DAMAGE!!! Seriously 
 though, the production values for this game are truly phenomenal for a launch title or any title 
 within a console's first two years actually.
  2) The gameplay is actually really good for a First Person Shooter considering the fact that the 
 company that made this game only made one FPS game before, and that was Disruptor for the Playstation 
 nearly eleven years ago. For a company that has only made games in the Spyro vein for eight years, 
 this is outstanding.
  And now, it is time to get a little more in depth with this review. So, without further ado, let's 
 get down to the nitty-gritty:
  Story:
  
  Like I said above, Resistance, follows the tale of Nathan Hale, a Sergeant in the United States 
 Army who was on his merry little way to EuropeYork actually, to meet up with British forces for 
 an all out assault on the Chimera. What I didn't tell you, is how he makes it to York. He arrives 
 shaken, not stirred, and is thrown right into the fray when his helicopter is blown out of the 
 sky by several Chimeran foes. York was thought to be safe, or at least, someone told them it was. 
 Sounds like a trap to me. The game puts you into the heat of battle right off the bat, telling 
 you to use a simple but effective Carbine, which is more commonly known as a machine gun.
  
  The story is told through a combination of cut scenes, and image stills with overlapping narration. 
 However, there isn't a lot of story, but what there is happens to be really gripping and engaging. 
 I cannot reveal much, but I will tell you this: it started in Russia. What British intelligence 
 thought was experimentation for biological warfare turned out to be much, much worse. The story 
 REALLY picks up around level two of the campaign, where the Chimera launches a spire attack on 
 York. Out of the spires come literally thousands upon thousands of Crawlers. These little insects 
 happen to carry the virus that is responsible for the creation of the Chimera. Normally, the virus 
 sends its victim into a coma, and then they are collected by Chimera transports and sent to a Conversion 
 center to speed up the process. The Chimera power these centers through miles upon miles of underground 
 power conduits. They use tunnels under the earth to maintain and uphold these power conduits. Each 
 tunnel leads to a tower that outputs the power needed for the conversion centers by use of a single 
 nuclear fission reactor. Destroying that reactor will destroy the tunnels and stuff connected to 
 it. I shall not reveal anymore. Due to the story being great, but sparsely mentioned, this part 
 of the review shall take an acceptable 8.5 out of 10.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Being a first gen title for a new platform does not excuse a game or having bad graphics. Fortunately, 
 this launch title (first gen title) has some of the best launch graphics I have seen in a good 
 long while. Everything about the graphics is polished and clean. Enemy animations are fluent, as 
 are your allies. This game manages to convey the setting perfectly. The graphics are realistic, 
 yet fantastic at the same time. I have only two complaints. One: fire sometimes looks like paper. 
 Two: the water definitely looks fake. These little things do detract from the overall tone of the 
 game itself. This section receives a score of 9 out of 10.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Ah! The place where it really counts! What is a game without gameplay? A movie? Well, despite the 
 fact that Resistance LOOKS like a movie, it is an actual game! It is a first person shooter, something 
 everyone is probably familiar with in this day and age. For those who don't know, a first person 
 shooter puts you behind the eyes of the main character and requires you to take aim with the weapon. 
 Resistance leaves the norm in some respects. Resistance uses a combination of regenerative health 
 and health packs. You can regenerate  of your health, but to get more than that, you need to find 
 a health pack. In theory, this is a great idea. In execution, this method sucks. Your character 
 absorbs damage like a wet sponge, not very well at all. It takes about two or three hits and you're 
 down a bar and a half. I wouldn't mind so much if there were more health packs. As it is, the game 
 throws you into a room with half of your ammo gone (at least, it took ME half of my ammo to kill 
 a certain group) , with half of your health, two health packs and then it throws thirty or so enemies 
 at you and says," Good luck!"
  
  Where the gameplay exceeds is all the crazy weapons you have and how the enemies take death. Some 
 don't take it very well at all, while others will take multiple hits to bring down. One of my favorite 
 weapons has to be the Auger. This weapon shoots energy bolts that can shoot through any solid object. 
 The guns alternate fire shoots a semi-permeable energy shield. By semi-permeable, I mean that it 
 will only allow Auger bullets to pass by. At the same time as being the coolest weapon, it is also 
 the most useless. Why? Well, it's not very fun or smart to use this weapon after you get it due 
 to the fact that almost every other enemy carries one as well. On top of the crazy a** weaponry, 
 you also have crazy a** grenades. Yes, I said itGrenades. What is a FPS without grenades? One 
 that isn't very good. You have your standard frag grenadeBoring, I know, bear with me, it gets 
 way better. Then you have something called the Hedgehog. All this unique little grenade does is 
 blow up and send fifty or so sharp, painful needles towards the enemies. Can anyone say shish kebob? 
 Then we have the Air-Fuel Grenade. This is quite possible the best thing since sliced bread. Simply 
 throw the grenade, and a cloud of noxious fumes saturate the air around itBut that's not all. 
 Within seconds, the fuel ignites, causing your enemies to feel the pain of a thousand sunsJust 
 be careful though, fire does tend to hurt those that it touches, even you.
  
  I've talked enough about the weapons. Now I need to spend eight years of your time talking about 
 the single player. Roughly nine to ten hours long, the campaign consists of you fighting thousands 
 of foes across war-torn Europe. You'll go from big, open battlefields, to dark and scary corridors, 
 to a peaceful summertime gorge, back to dark scary tunnels, and then into a war-torn city known 
 as London.
  
  How were those eight years? Time for the multiplayer. The online is absolutely, without a doubt, 
 horrifyingly abysmal. After five minutes of being online, I wanted to stab myself in the face with 
 a dinner fork because of all the annoying little noobs. Everyone says that PSN doesn't have these 
 annoying little buggers, but I found a whole nest of them. And even if it didn't have these noobs, 
 the online still wouldn't be very great. Why? Because all the matches have the One-Hit-Kill mode 
 turned on. Why in the heck would anyone wish to play that? A game of who can squeeze the trigger 
 faster? I'm sorry, but I need games with skill involved, not little nooblets that shoot the mess 
 out of everything when a bird flies by. The coolest part of the gameplay is indeed the co-op story 
 mode. This section receives a score of 7.9 out of 10.
  
  Extras:
  
  This game features a plethora of bonus material, all unlocked by doing tasks in the game, tasks 
 such as teabagging fifteen enemy corpses. There are also skill points that are awarded or accomplishing 
 extra tasks in the game, such as killing every enemy in a certain room with one weapon that has 
 limited ammo. While these features are great, nothing compares to playing the game on a higher 
 difficulty you unlocked. While this sounds like a GOOD idea, it is really a bad idea due to the 
 difficulty on Easy being extreme, having FULL use of the word. This section receives a score of 
 9.5 out of 10. 
  
  Score: 9.0/10
  Recommended: Highly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Croix-Man
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  So I just got the PS3 in January and it now sits next to my 360... which had many hours of Gears 
 on it. Now when I got Gears this was the game it was compared to so my expectations for this game 
 was extremely high due to the fact that Gears is great. Now, I will be getting the second one.... 
 but the first one in my opinion just wasn't as great as the hype let on.
  
  The first fifteen chapter (1/2 the game) seemed more like a chore. In fact I had to take a 5 day 
 breather from it since I was bored of it and thus forced myself to play it again... and I must 
 say the last half of the game was EXTREMELY enjoyable. The story picked up and the levels just 
 seemed more fun. 
  
  The graphics were ok. A bit outdated now maybe after the two years, I feel when it came out they 
 were beautiful.... except for the aliens. They were terrible, and its not because they were aliens. 
 I feel like Insomniac created them in oooo lets say 8 minutes.
  
  I felt that the game was hyping up way to many parts up whether it was an opponent, a gun, or something... 
 and constantly let me down. So if you do play this game and read/listen in the game... don't get 
 excited about something you hear.
  
  Hearing was another problem I had. I guess they wanted the time to feel more authentic but even 
 with surround sound speakers near my ears and not shooting and not next to anything making noise, 
 it was near impossible for me to understand the radio... in fact it was impossible for me.
  
  A pet peeve I got throughout the game which started to really upset me also was on how the 
 aliens fell when they were dead... THEY WERE STANDING UP HALF THE TIME! So when you kill one, and 
 it is standing up you stay there for a bit more shooting at it waiting for it to die.... but it 
 wont. Also I feel that it just took away from the feel of the game.
  
  No, I am not reviewing online since I didn't play online.
  
  It was a fun game, so go out and 
 get it if you want... just don't hype it up to much. I feel that if the hype didn't get to me my 
 score would have been a bit higher.
  
  -The Croix Man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lociefer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  well this was my first ps3 game , and i have to say , i still play it till this very day , the 
 game is really awsome , and the best thing is , its gonna be a series ,and its ps3 exclusive so 
 if u just got ur ps3 get it , or ur hoping to play res2 , the thing is , the graphics are a little 
 dated , considering its a launch title and stuff , but the gameplay is solid , the controls are 
 responsive , and no framerate issues , the game has a long compaign , and best thing is , it can 
 be played co-operative , and the online is seriously sweet , so bottom line is , if ur a ps3 owner 
 , add this game to ur library , well the review is over , but seriously this 800 words minimum 
 requirements of gamespot's review system is lame , now i got only 611 words , its damn hard to 
 write a reivew , i hope this is enough 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 23, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  R: FOM was easily the biggest let down that I experienced in a long time (besides Haze) I thought 
 that it would be more like Doom but I was wrong. I found that the enemies in the story were a bit 
 to. . . repetitive. The online in this game is likely what got it the awards that it did. I will 
 give this game props though because it did get in the Guiness Book of World Records for most sold 
 game. I probably would expect to see GTA4 take that spot this year:) The online modes that are 
 used are only good if you have. . . well. . . online. The 40 player online was the best thing to 
 come from any game, with the graphics still good with 40 individual people on the map. With the 
 release of R:2 the hype is likely going to be bigger than the 1st. I really hope that they deliver 
 with there online promises unlike the Haze letdown with the 60 people online. Just because of that 
 I didn't get Haze.
  
  
  Verdict: There are better games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 10:52 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man pulled me into its grasps because i am a die hard fan of Spyro The Dragon 
 and Ratchet And Clank games so i had to see what Insomniac has been up to. It turns out they have 
 evolved into something beautiful. Resistance is an amazing shooter and an outstanding experience 
 combined with an interesting story. I really enjoyed this FPS, though i rarely enjoy this genre. 
 The environments go from creepy (a dark subway train) , to amazing backdrops such as Manchester 
 and London. There are a few setbacks however. Mainly the enemy AI is sometimes stagnant and the 
 levels can get repetitive as well as enemies becoming too far up in numbers towards the end of 
 the game. The consistency of the difficulty drove me nuts because it was anything but consistent. 
 But this game is an amazing adventure and i recommend it to anyone and everyone. Next up, Metal 
 Gear Solid 4: Guns Of The Patriots... need i say more? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkChaos08
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 12:26 am PT
Review:  If your looking for a first person shooter with all kinds of cool weapons, then this is the game 
 for you. Both Chimera and Human weapons in this game are all fun to use. Insomniac did a very good 
 job on the designs of the Chimera, some of them are annoying and some of them are hard. This game 
 is also fairly long so you will have plenty of time to use the large selection of weapons. After 
 you beat the single player story mode there is fun to be had in the multiplayer on-line mode, with 
 up to 40 players. Or going through the game again to check out the new weapons you unlocked after 
 beating the game the first time is fun, and gives this game a high replay value. I do however think 
 that this game kind of lacks in the graphics department, the graphics are not terrible but in my 
 opinion they could have had the same graphics on PS2. Other than the PS2 graphics i see no other 
 problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathan-Hale
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 9, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  It's amazing how one of the best first person shooters can come from the makers of the Ratchet 
 And Clank Series. This game is very good although the storyline might confuse you a bit. From the 
 amazing 2 player co-op to the wonderful 1 player campaign. But what this game is truly about is 
 the online from the Playstation Network. With 40 people in one match ( 20 v 20) this is truly what 
 makes the online gameplay worthplaying. Some people might think that 40 people on one map might 
 be too crowded, but some of the maps are made just for 30+ players making the online incredible. 
 The top selling game for the ps3 really does deserve the title because it lives up to all of its 
 expectations. The only problem i encountered was the color, the game used too many shades of gray, 
 other than that this game is a must buy if you own the ps3. But make sure you try out the online. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thewbacca
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  Resistance : Fall of Man takes place in a time period that really needs a paragraph to do it justice. 
 You could say that it takes place in a period where WWII was prevented by Aliens, but thats like 
 saying that the Afghani terrorists attacked America because of jealousy - not only is it grossly 
 wrong, and seems to be born out of stupidity, it does not do justice to the subtle nuances that 
 lie below.
  
  The story starts in the middle of the great war. The U. S., deciding that there is no immediate 
 danger to her from the war (the infamous communication between the Mexicans and the Germans was 
 never detected) , and that the economic hardships by France and Britain's destruction could be overcome 
 by ties with Germany, America left Europe to fight her own war. At the same time, a workers revolution, 
 sparked by the vision of Karl Marx, begins in Russia. The Czar, however, is quick to crush this 
 rebellion. The status quo is kept, and Russia continues to hold the eastern front.
  
  With no Americans, the war must continue into the 1920's. However, it comes to a close not with 
 a battle, but with a truce. Neither side is the evil one, and neither must pay the Treaty of Versailles. 
 Add to this the continued boom of the War economy, and the Great Depression is a figment of some 
 economists mind.
  
  All is not well, however, as after the war, Russia begins to cement herself in. Her former allies 
 become suspicious, but not overly so. She is allowed to live her own way. How foolish.
  
  A comet, carrying with it a mutagenic virus, has crashed in Russia's ideal frosty climate. From 
 those first infected, are born horrible creatures with minds and bodies built for only one thing 
 - war.
  
  I dare anyone to say that this is a sub-par story. And this is the prologue.
  
  Resistance also combines the best of both worlds, hybridizing the classic health-bar with todays 
 self-healing health. The protagonist has a health bar divided into four sections. If shot, you 
 can heal a bar back, but once you drop beyond one mark, you cannot just self-heal; you must find 
 the necessary energy.
  
  Enemies manage to be both horrifying and distinct. In your adventure, you will fight against the 
 collosal explosive-spitting, 4 legged spiders (I know a spider has 8 legs, but there is no other 
 description for it) , the suicidal Hardfangs, who'll rush you, guns ablaze, the Titans, huge beasts 
 who'll fire at you using the cannon they ripped off a tank, Greyskulls, a cross between Spider-man 
 and a sniper, the Steelheads, who'll find their safety and fire at you, through walls, to force 
 you into the path of the Hybrids, giant dogs, living mines, small (ish) living mines, and the Angels. 
 Each one will strike fear into your heart at the sight at one point.
  
  However, you can of course fight back. This is Insomniac, so the weapons are brilliant. You start 
 with an M15 Carbine with Grenade launcher, and only get better. You have your classic shotgun, 
 your dual wielded machine guns, your rifle that can fire energy through walls, your gun that can 
 place liquid mines, a sniper rifle that can slow down time, a flamethrower that can set clouds 
 of gas as traps, a straight port of the every-bullet-to-the-first gun from The Fifth Element, a 
 Minigun that can fire its rounds as a hovering orb that autotargets enemies, a Rocket Launcher 
 with rockets that can be easily navigated around corners, and a gun that fires a wall of rockets. 
 This is the sort of stuff that could raise Chazrlton Heston from the dead. And in addition, you 
 are complimented with 4 different grenades, from the standard Frag Grenade (Which can still clear 
 out a room nicely) to the Hedgehog grenade, which jumps and shoots large spikes in every direction, 
 the Air Fuel Grenade, which creates a giant solid cloud of fire around the enemy, to the Baclash 
 grenade, a portable Bullet returning shield. Now its seeming fair.
  
  The visuals are stunning, as is the soundtrack. There is enough classic staples to intrigue die 
 hard FPS users, but enough new fun stuff to attract people who've grown tired of it over the years 
 and new users alike. 
  
  Multiplayer is set at an unprecedented maximum of 40 online players for a single match, but there 
 also the intrigue of local (same Ps3) multiplayer or Co-op if you want to play with some friends. 
 There are also some new modes for multiplayer, including a core-meltdown mode in addition to capture 
 the flag and deathmatch.
  
  There is nothing that is not excellent about this game. Go ahead and try, you cannot come up with 
 something that could make Resistance more awesome. It is creative and intriguing, bloody and fun 
 - everything an Fps should be, and nothing it shouldn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riachin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Good start for PS3 shoot em up, and I'm looking forward to Resistance 2. 
  
  The game has a nice selection of weapons, which surprisingly are all effective at some point of 
 the game. The development of the story's pretty interesting and the environment is nice.
  
  The downfall of this game would be the lack of developing the main character. We see him a lot, 
 but we don't hear him or find out what he's thinking. I just found him to be rather dull in that 
 sense.
  
  Also, another thing that bothered me was how you would keep going from human buildings to high 
 tech chimera bases to roads and then back to human buildings again only to repeat the cycle. It's 
 good to change around a bit, but you don't feel a sense of getting anywhere in the game just go 
 there kill that come back here and kill this.
  
  The co-op version of this game is great. It's interesting all the tactics you can use with two 
 people. Also makes the game easier (which is great) .
  
  All in all this is a great game worth buying and Insomniac Games did a good job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah__Link
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game that should not be missed. It should also be the first choice a gamer picks 
 when he/she first buys a PS3. The campaign is great, the multiplayer is just as addicting. Much 
 better than Halo 1 and Halo 2. But I haven't played Halo 3 and I'm pretty sure this game is not 
 as good. But Resistance 2 hopefully will be better!.
  
  Gameplay: The controls are very easy to pick up and fun. The enemy AI is smart. But are not as 
 responsive when it comes to grenades. They hide, duck, and gang up on you. What makes this game 
 so fun is that it's a mixture between many games, got some WWII (takes place in '51) , a bit of 
 Unreal Tournament, and some Halo inside it too. There is not a HUGE variety of enemies. But the 
 game sadly is pretty unoriginal. There is also a huge variety of guns. The multiplayer is very 
 fun to play as well especially with 40 players online.
  
  Graphics: It looks impressive for a PS3 launch title. Just remember this was one of the first games 
 to come out on the PS3 and they were still getting used to the hardware so don't expect any thing 
 extraordinary. But still the graphics could have been improved a bit. 
  
  Sound: The sound effects are great. The music is awesome. The guns sound very good as well. And 
 there is some pretty good voice acting.
  
  Value, tilt: The game is very fun, but I have some complaints. The price the game was released in 
 2006 and is still worth $60. I'm sure at a different store it would cost much less but still. During 
 the cutscenes there are these black and white documentaries that are somewhat interesting but obviously 
 meant they did not have time to finish up some cutscenes before the release. Just some little things 
 like those lower the score of 10 to a 9. Also there is no online co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinxsnipe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Ok, the start off, this game is awesome. The graphics are nice and the game play great. Level layout 
 is nice and the multi player? Addictive. The weapons are creative and the variety make a fun addition 
 to the game. This is expected considering Insomniac made this game, their other great game, Ratchet 
 and Clank. The Chimera make a formidable foe in the game. This game was a launch title for the 
 PS3 and is most likely the most successful one. Even two years later it is really fun. One thing 
 that I did not like was that I thought it ended in awkward places and there is not that much character 
 development. Also, your teammates really don't help. You are pretty much a one man army. If you 
 are in a tight spot, don't expect anyone to save you, unless you are playing campaign with a buddy. 
 Overall, this game is great, with a variety of weapons, awesome graphics, great game play, and 
 extremely fun multi player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man is a launch title for the PS3, and even though it's almost 2 years old, 
 it's still worth playing and it still looks great. The shooting feels nice and tight, very good 
 voice acting you feel like you have a conection with the characters, though not as strongly as 
 in a game like Uncharted. Even if your not really into FPSs like me Resistance is still a fun game 
 because it just feels right, only very minor tweaks are really needed to improve the gameplay, 
 for one I found at times that maybe a map would help just so you have an idea of where your going 
 and where enemies are. Everything in Resistance looks awesome, however zooming in tends to make 
 textures look a little blury but not too badly. The most fun granade to use is either the Air-Fire 
 one or the Hedgehog as it's fun to make either BBQ or Pincushions out of the Chimera. The best 
 gun in my opinion is the Bullseye after reciving the upgrade during the last level. Resistance 
 also has alot of replay value if your into doing all the skill points, want to play with some of 
 the new weapons in your second campeign. Overall Resistance is an awesome experiance and is a must 
 play. A few other changes I would have made would be have Stalkers a little easier to take down 
 when on foot and have them handeling easier when you commondeer a stalker from a Chimerian base. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 14, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Remember your first first person shooter? Remember how cool and different it was? Remember how 
 it was so unique seeing that gun popping out of the side of the screen? Remember the thrill you 
 got from peeking around a corner and shooting guys and then heading back for cover? Remember running 
 for your life while looking for ammo and health? 
  
  Remember how that formula has been copied a million times?
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is no 
 different. At it's core it's the same old FPS, with the same old rules, and the same old gameplay. 
 And I played it in my same old house, while eating my same old potato chips, and avoiding dealing 
 with my same old failed dreams. 
  
  But all that being said, this game somehow manages to seem fresh and fun. Here's the skinny. You're 
 a dude in the army after World War II (as far as I know, this is the only FPS to take place in 
 WWII times) . Aliens have landed ( as far as I know, this is the only FPS to involve aliens) . And 
 you need to use your guns and the aliens guns to stop them (as far as I know, this is the only 
 FPS to use guns) .
  
  The story gets a little unstructured and a lot of loose ends are never tied up. But your a guy 
 who is fighting his way through this invasion, making your way to the aliens headquarters and blowing 
 it up. There are some things thrown in here about you being linked to the aliens somehow, but it 
 may as well been left out... because absolutely NOTHING happens with it.... much like my dreams and 
 aspirations.
  
  So it may sound like I have nothing negative to say about the game. But nothing could be further 
 from the truth. The game LOOKS and FEELS great! The environments and bad dudes looks so damn good 
 that sometimes I just wanted to stand around and look at everything while getting my head blown 
 off. The art direction and quality really raise the bar here. You really get immersed in the game 
 thanks to how good everything looks. 
  
  The gameplay, while not original, is solid and fun as hell. The controls are responsive and smooth. 
 Your array of weapons is incredible. Your enemies are gruesome and have smart AI. And the pacing 
 is really well done (gameplay wise anyway... like I said, story wise it has a lot of problems) .
 
  
  All kinds of little details really help as well. The sounds are great, the designs of the aliens 
 are cool, and the level designs are of high quality. Overall, we're dealing with one hell of a 
 polished game here.
  
  So there you have it. A solid game, with solid graphics and solid gameplay without much innovation. 
 It makes for a great game to play actually. So if you are one of the few people who actually have 
 a PS3, go pick it up. It's a great distraction from your failed hopes and dreams. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  When the PS3 launched in North America, the talk of the town was obvious: Resistance: Fall of Man. 
 Over the past few months, it rapidly became the focal point of most media attention, and rapidly 
 grabbed the coveted crown of "most anticipated launch title." However, there were a few issues 
 to consider- Firstly, Insomniac was at the helm for this one, and while they're responsible for 
 some fine productions in the past, this would be their first venture into the FPS genre. Furthermore, 
 we'd heard some mediocre feedback regarding the demo on display at this year's Tokyo Game Show, 
 so we weren't certain what to expect.
  The game is set around the time of World War II, but in this particular past, the chimera breed 
 is rapidly taking over Europe. Their existence began in Russia - under suspicious and mysterious 
 circumstances - and something went very wrong... before long, they owned Russia and most all of 
 Europe. You begin the game following the story of an American soldier, Nathan Hale, who is fighting 
 throughout war-torn England in a desperate attempt to save Europe before it falls completely to 
 the invading chimera. The chimera are nasty-looking things with long fangs and cooling apparatuses 
 on their backs... why? Well, we won't spoil any more of the story.
  Nothing is perfect, and there were some disappointing tidbits. But to say that Resistance is "disappointing" 
 is just absurd; it's the best game on the PS3 by a large margin, and easily secures a place in 
 our top 10 for this year, and perhaps top 10 of the past five years when it comes to pure, unbridled 
 fun. Best FPS ever? Probably not. Must-play, must-own,  Yup. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badandyaw
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  I started playing this game sometime about a year ago after i initially bought my ps3. I borrowed 
 it from a friend because i had never been into first person shooters. This game was initially somewhat 
 difficult to adapt to. However I recently bought it (due in part to the pending sequel) and i love 
 every minute of it. 
  
  I love those games that have a large backstory, that always keep you craving for more. This is 
 one of those. I still have not beaten it but the game keeps me interested. 
  
  The Chimera are a very difficult enemy. Most first person shooter games i have played are simply 
 to easy. The baddies always die after one shot. Not here. This game truly challenges you. I have 
 started to play it on co-op which i love as well. 
  
  Overall this game is a huge success and i look forward to the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: windows3000000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  Resistance the fall of man is the first of it's series but a word wide favorite. Resistane was developed 
 by insomanic and is awsom this is a must have for the ps3 resistance is like a part of the ps3. The 
 game sets in the world war two but insted of fighting human enermys the mysterious chimera. The 
 controles soon become like a second reflics but the game should befor people who will do five chapters 
 at once. Extra side quest do not appear in this series but if you just want to kill some random 
 aleins resistance is for you with 10 alein and human weapons you can kill some 12 foot spider. the 
 story has a massive plot and a lot of explosions. The online play features a 60 person team wich 
 is a bit much for one game. But even if you have 600 or 6000 resistance is a must have game. Nine 
 and a half out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven-Army
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Ok, Im a little behind with this review, say 12 months, but I'm still relatively new to the PS3 
 and it's (tiny) back catalogue so it's with my middle finger extended to the fan boys I stroll 
 into my local game spaz store and pick up a copy of Resistance: Fall of Man for the Uber wicked 
 price of 12. 
  Amazing deal or money i should have spent on pick n mix?.... read on mofos. 
  
  As most of you 
 are aware , R: FOM has a WWII setting infused with scifi which although not the most original of 
 ideas, i can't remember the fusing of the two elements being used so effectively if at all on a 
 FPS. 
  The game has three setting / gameplay types as far as I can make out, ranging from Closteraphobic 
 corridor shoot em ups through to open scale battlefield attacks alongside a couple of different 
 vehicle sections, all things we've seen before as tends to often be the case with FPS but of a 
 quality that makes R: FOM a joy to play. 
  
  It's obvious that the designers played and enjoyed the original Halo and it's influences are apparent 
 but with the beginings of this strong game in their minds they have gone on to create something 
 that at times feels like a homage rather than a straight rip off of the microsoft money maker. 
 
  
  The weapons are excellent and in abundance, ranging from homing bullets to sheid generators through 
 to the usual sniping and machine guns and everything inbetween. You'll need to change between these 
 weapons frequently to dish out damage to the various forms of Chimera, the main protaganists made 
 up of various mutated humans all of which sport pretty good A. I. and will rarely stand willingly 
 in your gun fire. 
  
  A quick note on the multiplayer is that even over 12 months later, online matches are still going 
 strong and are a great old school team game with plenty of options and ludicrus jumping around. 
 Its always nice and easy to get onto a game and im really looking forward to what they pull out 
 of the bag on R: FOM 2. 
  
  For all you cats with A. D. D... 
  
  * Graphics are pretty damn good. Above average 
  * Gameplay is meat n veg FPS but done in a very 
 solid way 
  * Story is as with most FPS the last thing we're bothered about but is quite well handled with 
 third person voice overs 
  * Online is great fun, basic run and gun old school action 
  *The out door battles are great fun offering multiple routes to destroy the enemy. 
  
  All 
 in all the best purchase ive made for my money this year, yes and that's including GTIV... come 
 get me fan boys wooooooo! 
  
  Doc P - Raven Army 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ACE-414
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 6, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  COD 4 is a brilliant game, the graphics are good and the game play is good.
  So overall I think this game is 9.5 out of 10. But if I had to choose which one is the best between 
 RESISTANCE: Fall of Man and Call of Duty 4 I would have to say they're both as good as each other 
 because they both have there different advantages and some disadvantages.
  
  Call of Duty
  Good points-
  
  -Good Graphics.
  
  -Good Game play.
  
  -The variety 
 of different game modes you can play in it e. g. Search and Destroy.
  
  -The Melee attack (you can stab your opponent J) .
  
  -You can upgrade your weapons by unlocking 
 add-ons .
  
  -You can camouflage your weapon. 
  
  -You can vote to skip a arena you do not like.
  
  Disadvantages-
  -You can't see if you're 
 friends are in a match or in the lobby.
  
  -Any body over a certain level can join your clan weaver you like it or not.
  
  -You can't 
 message your friends who are playing COD4 or not, while in the game.
  
  -You can't customize what your character looks like. L
  
  -Some might not care but when you 
 want to play a game, 5 out of 10 times it. puts you in a game that has already started so you get 
 put on a team that are getting their arses kicked.
  
  - (Offline) the story mode is too short.
  
  -Only 18 players MAX can be in one game.
  
  
 -The server is too small so some might have problems getting online, down to 'traffic' problems.
 
  
  
  RESISTANCE: Fall of Man
  Good points-
  -Good Graphics.
  
  -Good Game play.
  
  -Loads of different game modes e. g. Meltdown.
  
  -You can unlock items of clothing for 
 your character (which includes rucksacks and head wear as well as the normal clothing and camouflages 
 you would see a soldier wearing) as you rank up.
  
  
  -You CAN message your friends while in the game.
  
  -You CAN see if your friends are in a game 
 or in a lobby or staging a game (getting into a game)
  
  -If you are the leader of a clan, only you can choose who gets in by inviting them to your clan. 
 (This also means you have the power to kick people out of your clan if they're slacking) .
  
  -40 players MAX online in a one match. (But only team games, so there is 20 players against 
 20 players. In a death match there would be 15-20 players all against each other) .
  
  -If you want to play a game it will always put you in a game that hasn't started yet.
  
  - (Offline) 
 story mode is very good. It is not too short or too long.
  -It's good how your player's animated mouth goes in sync with what you have to say on ur head set.
 
  
  -The weapons in RESISTANCE are more hi-tech and can do more things that the weapons in COD 4 can.
 
  Disadvantages
  -You can't upgrade your weapons at all.
      that's it really.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkfan83
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I am playing resistance for the 2nd time since I first bought my ps3 2 years ago. It is fun, has 
 a top notch story and is one of the greatest shooters ever made. The only drawbacks are the 2nd 
 rate graphics and the ww2 setting, I would like to see this game more modern and I would like to 
 see some more blood and better sound. The game is still what I consider to be a classic, one of 
 the few modern games w/ high replay value. I own a 360 and I love Halo, Gears and Bioshock but 
 I think ps3 kicks butt.
  
  I cant wait for resistance 2. I play a lot of shooters and resistance suprises me the 2nd time 
 through because of how much better it is a d how much more fun it is to play than most of the new 
 games. 
  
  Multiplayer is also fun I am not a huge fan of mutiplayer but I try it on every game I buy. Resistance 
 and Halo have the best, better than cod4 and rsv 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamiem13579
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  i bought this game before christmas and i didnt stop playing it
  the game play is great not to challenging but enough to enjoy it
  online is good but it depends 
 what you like, it isnt no sniping game
  breach is brillient i love it
  i would recommend it to anyone buying a ps3 it is a great game to start on
  the graphics are 
 good
  and the story line is impressive
  
  you can do story mode as a pair which is a bonus
  
  i would still have to say that i think 
 call of duty 4 is better but its still a good little game
  
  it is a game you either love or hate
  
  anyone wants to play cod4 or resistance add me on ps3
 
  ps3 name- liverpool1994
  
  rent the game first if you are not sure if you will like it or not
  
  great game to play with 
 your mates
  :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :}
  :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} :} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyalhk
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 3, 2008 2:53 am PT
Review:  Thats the first game i played on my 40 gb ps3, i was very puzzled with all the other shooters out 
 there so thought of giving it a try since its demo left me undecisive. 
  
  I kinda liked the name and it suits the game well. the world shown is in 1950s and a disease or 
 alien virus or a man made plague is spreading rapidly across europe and killing and converting 
 people into big fighting beast soldiers called chimera. It started to spread from Russia and is 
 origin is still unknown. The americans didnt want to interfere but a group of soldiers were sent 
 to find out what is happening in the western europe, they find out the unpredicted, whole uk is 
 like deserted, there is little human life and it all depends on soldiers from both us and uk to 
 stop the menace. 
  The minute you see your gun the intense action starts with chimera pounding from all direction 
 and killing your fellow soldiers.
  
  The chimera have many types, they can be big, medium of all sizes and stronger than humans, have 
 more technology than humans and are ugly and scary looking. You are Nathan Hale and you also at 
 somepoin get affected by chimera and it is iminent that you will become one of them but you use 
 chimera for the good of human beings and use your powers to bring down some part of chimera. the 
 game has a decent length not very long though, you get through exciting battles, locations, weapons 
 but the default weapon the rifle is my favourite. its alternate grenade launcher rocks. At times 
 it gives you the feeling like you are going through War of the Worlds, a lonely soldier bearing 
 all responsibility and fighting for justice. feels sory when he dies. Hale is shown as a great 
 man , a great soldier who fights the chimera non stop, 
  
  there is not much vehicle action but it is still well done, using chimera technology, or human 
 made tanks and jeeps gives you enough blowing stuff fun and crushing chimera.
  
  the graphics, sounds everything is great about this game, excellent loading times, you wont feel 
 a jerk while playing, this game is really a technicle achivement and other game makers must learn 
 from it, that good handling of software is essential rather than stuffing up everything to the 
 CPU.
  
  Multiplayer is excellent, there is whole world of resistance and battles going on, so many types 
 of matches, custom matches are fun, you get promoted in ranked matches, chimera is cool to play 
 with, because they can see through walls and when enraged can be very deadly, kill humans in instantly.
 
  
  botto line is it is greates shooter ps3 could get and i wish every shooter whether different in 
 concept is as good as this one, runs shiny water smoothy, weapons feeling good, awesome melee attack, 
 nice multiplayer with fast connectivity. feels like butter, no glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man for the PS3
  
  The Good:
  1. Story and Graphics are amazing.
  
  2. Worth the Price 3. Multipayer couldn't be any better.
  
  4. Online play lets you play 
 as either Hale or Chemira The Bad:
  1. No info whats so ever on the Chimera 2. Story a little bit too short 3. By the end of the game 
 most of your guns are out of ammo
  
  4. A. I. sometimes can really be quite stupid
  
  Overview:
  Now Resistance: Fall of Man is a GREAT release title and like i said before the stroy 
 is amazing. Now i will tell more about the story it is July 11, 1951 and WWII and The Great Depression 
 did not happen so instead The Chimera come to Earth and unleash hell all over the UK. You play 
 as Nathan Hale and you are sent out along with UK soldiers to kill the Chimera... of course as we 
 all know that doesn't exactly work so its left up to Nathan to kill the Chimera. Also Nathan gets 
 infected and soon gets to use the Chimera's health packets and those serve as the games health 
 pick-ups. Also Nathan gets a Angel in his head and soon destroys it and this **** is HUGE!!! The 
 Chimera also have many forms such as Leapers, Angels, Adult Leapers and many more! So Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is a great game but i couldn't give it a 10 because the story is short and the Chimera 
 were not explained at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prenandrew301
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:10 am PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is a first person shooter made by insomniac and it is amazing. You take 
 on the role of Nathan Hale and your duty is to stop the chimera invasion. The game itself is intense 
 beginning to end the A. I is very smart and will do anything to kill you. The firefights are greatly 
 done because your fighting endless numbers of Chimera. The frame rate never drops while in combat 
 which is a huge plus. You can carry a verity of weapons and use them to the best of your ability. 
 Some weapons include the bullseye, carbine, auger.
  The graphics are great due to the fact that this is a launch title for the PS3. It makes you feel 
 like that you are in this war. There are so many enemies that you always need to be alert. Some 
 enemies are titans, spires, leapers, and many more the audio is very clear and crisp. Depending 
 on the difficulty you set the game on it can turn into a very lengthy FPS. Resistance also features 
 co-op where you and friends can play together. You can also unlock various items and skins upon 
 completion of the campaign. Once you are a done with the Campaign the real fun is the fast paced 
 online it supports up to 40 players that is the most we have seen on a console to date. Human vs 
 Human or Chimera vs Human each having their own unique abilities like Chimera having rage and humans 
 having radar. Resistance tracks stats and ranks and medals. You can create a party with you and 
 your buddies. The maps are great as well. Any gamer will get addicted really fast, so be prepared 
 for those all nighters. this game is highly recommended for people with a PS3 or fans of the Fps 
 genre. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamcool2121
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is a first person shooter made by insomniac and it is amazing. You take 
 on the role of Nathan Hale and your duty is to stop the chimera invasion. The game itself is intense 
 beginning to end the A. I is very smart and will do anything to kill you. The firefights are greatly 
 done because your fighting endless numbers of Chimera. The frame rate never drops while in combat 
 which is a huge plus. You can carry a verity of weapons and use them to the best of your ability. 
 Some weapons include the bullseye, carbine, auger.
  The graphics are great due to the fact that this is a launch title for the PS3. It makes you feel 
 like that you are in this war. There are so many enemies that you always need to be alert. Some 
 enemies are titans, spires, leapers, and many more the audio is very clear and crisp. Depending 
 on the difficulty you set the game on it can turn into a very lengthy FPS. Resistance also features 
 co-op where you and friends can play together. You can also unlock various items and skins upon 
 completion of the campaign. Once you are a done with the Campaign the real fun is the fast paced 
 online it supports up to 40 players that is the most we have seen on a console to date. Human vs 
 Human or Chimera vs Human each having their own unique abilities like Chimera having rage and humans 
 having radar. Resistance tracks stats and ranks and medals. You can create a party with you and 
 your buddies. The maps are great as well. Any gamer will get addicted really fast, so be prepared 
 for those all nighters. this game is highly recommended for people with a PS3 or fans of the Fps 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joser15
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Welll 1st starting with the pros of this game would probably b the graphics... espiaclly since 
 i had an HDTV it looked great.... like the weapons wer simply amazing and that the details on enemy's 
 looked really and the sound even made it better... and a game that will giv u ur moneys worth,...
 
  
  but as the pros can go on the fact that ther r cons jus bcuz its a 9.0...
  one fact wood b the unoriginal story that goes with... not the story itself but whos telling the 
 story is wat it doing.... the story is told from a 3rd person perspective basically for the most 
 part and online wasn't great bcuz the only 40 player games wer big maps with snipe's one shot ur 
 dead... and that wen u killed a chimera it looked really wierd.... not natural at all....
  
  Pros...
  1. Weapons
  2. Graphics wit HDTV
  3. game play
  4. bosses
  5. sound
  6. 
 worth the $$$
  7. Sequel will come in Agust!!!!
  
  Cons
  1. unoriginal
  2. Chimera look funny wen dead
  3. online play isn't really organized well
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MechTrooper
Rating: 9
Date: May 26, 2008 3:13 am PT
Review:  Pretty good ame due to the fact that it is set in the world war times and that the weapons r good 
 because u can use modern weapons and alien weapons, i also think that the character desighn especially 
 the alien character desighn is fab coz it makes them look preety gruesome coz they`re so tall and 
 fleshy WIKID!!!!!!!!! the weapons r pretty good 2 especially the grenade which floats inthe air 
 and explodfe into tiny piercing spikes. The rifles r good to i like the alien one nbest with the 
 rapid plasma shoots 
 
  And the atmosphere is cool aswell it definitely shows that the aliens r one of those kill everything 
 types of guys 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mat1177
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 19, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is so amazing. I bought this game after call of duty 4 and i love it just as much as 
 it. The online multiplayer is intense and the campaign mode is just so immersive. This is one of 
 the best ps3 exclusives. To tell you the truth, i prefer this game over halo 3. The graphics are 
 better, the guns feel better, the character model and weapon design look much better and the aliens 
 are so fun to kill. 
  
  the campaign is well balanced and has alot of replay value. the human and chimera race in multiplayer 
 are very well balanced
  
  i like the fact that there are no vehicles because its just too overpowering
  
  last but not 
 least,
  get this game get this game get this game u just gota get it so we can vs online and hav so much 
 fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amkalfus
Rating: 8
Date: May 24, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  This game... wow. This was the first game that I played on the Playstation 3 when it first came 
 out. I played through the first couple of areas, alone and in co-op. I then didn't touch a PS3 
 until just this past week when I obtained one, and this was the first game that I bought. Again, 
 wow... This game isn't perfect, but it sure as hell is intense and very well done. A few problems 
 aside, this is a great shooter for the PS3!
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  
  The gameplay here is intense! The story isn't really fleshed out put pulls through well enough 
 to tie all of the levels together. The story is told about an American soldier but it's all told 
 through a British soldier about what they know from Hale, the American soldier. The idea is really 
 good, but I just wish they fleshed the story out more cause it's really damn interesting. My last 
 gripe is the use of cover is alright, but not used too effectively. It seemed in some areas I was 
 better off ramboing through an area than trying to be strategic about it. For the good though, 
 the gunplay is crazy! From the first level til the very end, you never stop wanting to shoot that 
 gun. Because of the difficulty being not too hard, not too easy, and it also ramps up at a good 
 pace throughout the game, you can become frustrated at parts but it makes you want to keep on chuggin' 
 through. From beginning to end, you'll be blasting these baddies til the cows come home. When it 
 comes to the multiplayer, I have never plaed it online but have heard that it's damn good. I will 
 leave my opinion out of this rating though about the online portion cause I have never even seen 
 it in action.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  The graphics aren't perfect here, but this is one of the earlier games on the PS3. The problems 
 here are not too much detail in some of the environments. Everything looks really good, and there 
 aren't any glitches that I was aware of. Just some minor detailing in my opinion is the reason 
 the graphics aren't perfect here.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  
  The weapons sound intense, the creatures sound terrifying, and your companions really sound like 
 there's a war going on. My only gripe is the main character never really speaks which is kind 
 of lame.
  
  Value: 8/10
  
  This game has some great value. Because of the extras involved, especially with all the intel documents 
 to find out just a little but more about the story, and the art packs and others, you will want 
 to play through this again possibly on a higher difficulty level to see if you can beat it on the 
 hardest level. With the multiplayer and online stuff, you'll keep coming back to this game.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  
  This is just a great game and everyone should check it out who has a PS3. 
 This is one you don't want to miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 23, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  With the Sony games show past and a host of new info on Resistance 2 being released, now would 
 probably be a good time fo me to review the original PS3 FPS. We all remember Resistance as the 
 highest selling PS3 release exclusive, but on the same token we also remember the PS3's crappy 
 launch and all around abysmal 2007. This, unforunately, seems to overlap on the really solid gameplay, 
 the crisp graphics, the mysterious and intense story and the plain fun of resistance.
  
  I suppose I'll write this in my usual proffesional style. Lets start out with the gameplay. The 
 gameplay in Resistance is something of a blend of all the best FPS' with some very shiny bits of 
 originality. The game runs at an Unreal Tournament style pace and also has possibly the fastest 
 reload times in the history of ever. THis fast pace actually suits the game very well, as many 
 of the missions are actually in fairly large open areas. The game also sports a Half Life 2 type 
 of inventory, you can pick up all the weapons and you simply hold R2 to bring up the menu, pausing 
 the game, and then use the analog stick to select your gun, though this can sometimes be a bit 
 laggy, eith you having to slam down on your analog stick to get it to move to the weapon of choice. 
 The weapons in Resistance are some of the most imaginative and cool weapons you'll ever see in 
 an FPS. you can really tell that Insomniac used all their experiance from Ratchet and Clank to 
 create them, for example: there is a gun that can fire through cover, powerful in your hands and 
 means you have to keep moving, cuase the enemies who use it are deadly, my personal favourite however 
 is a gun that fires hundreds of needles at once, and can fire a turret whose bullets home in. The 
 AI of the Chimera is fairly standard, the enemies will either ravenously pursue you or duck and 
 cover. Strategies depend on the type of Chimera they are, the elites will attempt to flank and 
 charge at you confidently, the basic HYbrids will stay back and shoot. There are a few vehicle 
 levels, they aren't horribly exciting, but they are very fun, particularly in the later missions. 
 The game is quite easy for those who are experianced in FPS', though it might be a bit of a challenge 
 for those new to the game genre. The game does get quite intensly difficult in the last few missions, 
 the difficulty spike is unexpected and caught me off gaurd, but it was still very beatable.
  
  Now to the story. The story for Resistance can seem a bit jumbled, there are many moments of 
 WTF? and how the hell? but the story actually is very well done, it is obvious though that the 
 developers had plans for a sequel. The story follows Sergant Nathan Hale of the American forces, 
 who have been sent to Britain to help defend against the seemingly unstoppable Chimeran horde, 
 the story mode is full of moements when you gasp and say holy ****. There are quite a few twists 
 and turns and the end leaves you begging for a sequel. As it turns out the CHimeran first appeared 
 in RUssia, wether they be monster, Alien or bio experiment is unknown, all you know is that they 
 use humans to make more of themselves, they have better tech then you and they want every human 
 dead. So as not to spoil anything I'll leave it at that.
  
  The graphics of Resistance are unique, as being one of the few FPS' to not lease the Unreal Engine, 
 it is actually quite refreshing. The graphics are solid and the smoke effects and explosions are 
 decent, the detail on the Chimera is very well done, despit ethe fact that the humans are no where 
 near as good. The Chimeran machines look very shiny and cool and the blood is ok. The one problem 
 I had was the death effects, they just look stupid, I doubt that when you blast something with 
 a shotgun it would suddenly slump down and to the splits. The graphics are very good, not the best 
 out there but still very good.
  
  So what happened to REsistance to make so under loved? Simple the genralisation that the PS3 had 
 no games. The stupid bull that was flung around on forums by Xbox360 fanboys and Nintendo nerds 
 was untrue and really hurt many of the good games that were released on the PS3. If you own a PS3 
 get Resistance, you owe it to yourself to play this great game, depsite what some 12 year old moron 
 said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bringndaheat08
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Once you put the disc in, and you see the title Resistance: Fall of Man come across you screen 
 as you hear alarms and see blood on the screen, you know you are in for a bloody, hectic, and unbelievable 
 experience.
  
  Heres a quick rundown. World War II didn't happen, but the Chimera did. They arrived on Earth and 
 we dont know why. They have taken over Russia and other countries, and they have their eyes set 
 on England. You are Nathan Hale, and you have to stop this enemy that you know nothing about.
 
  
  Gameplay-wise, Resistance is extremley intense and satisfying. Few games deliver the same chaos 
 and insanity that Resistance, and its ;argley in part to the PS3's power. You will be in battle 
 with maybe 10 allies and them about 20 Chimera, and while you are shooting and lobbing grenades, 
 there's explosions from mortar guns going off, bodies flying in the air, blood spraying over buildings, 
 and planes falling out of the sky. The framerate NEVER drops (offline) and it really helps keep 
 you enganged, start to finish.
  
  Graphics are stellar. Insomniac hit what they were aiming for, and they made these Chimera look 
 nasty. When you first see them, you know these things are out to kill you, just by the way they 
 look. Also, the enviroments look very nice. This is a launch game, keep in mind, so it has its 
 flaws, such as some rough and mushy textures, but this game looks very nice.
  
  Online is just as quick as the offline action. Respawn times are minimal, so you aren; t out of 
 the battle long, plus when you have a full 20 on 20 match going on, its pretty crazy. Definetly 
 an online game that has some legs on it, and it will be played for months to come, or untill Resistance 
 2 hits shelves. 
  
  Overall, Resistance is just an unforgetable experience that you need to play. Great game, Great 
 Story, Great Graphics, GREAT BUY
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gorillamo
Rating: 9
Date: May 18, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  This has almost everything that you could ever want in a game. The campaign (single player or coop) 
 is long and has a great storyline, and its also not too easy or too hard. Multiplayer is awesome 
 with up to 40 players online or 4-players split screen. You can customize your game options and 
 there are plenty of different game modes, so you won't get bored. It has a lot of interesting maps 
 and weapons (but none of them seem like they're too cheap) . The maps are massive and have a lot 
 of detail. The game also supports the SIXAXIS function, when you start on fire or one of the chimeran 
 creatures jumps on you, you can shake your controller to extinguish yourself or escape from the 
 chimerans grip. The graphics are above average and the game supports up to 720p Hi-Def resolution. 
 This is probably one of the few games I've played thats actually worth 60 dollars. I would recommend 
 this game to any person who has a PS3! I am looking foreward to the sequel!
  
  Pros: EVERYTHING except one thing. You will be playing this game for weeks.
  Cons: You can't 
 split-screen online play. I like it when you and your friend doesn't have to take turns playing 
 online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marc002
Rating: 8
Date: May 18, 2008 11:49 am PT
Review:  I liked this game right from the first level, with the Chimera swarming around the streets, having 
 to duck behind riot walls, the feel of the default carbine gun, and especially once you get the 
 alien homing needle gun, whatever it'a called. For the launch title, I think the graphics are pretty 
 impressive, and even after playing through the demo for HAZE or other more recent games, I'm still 
 satisfied with how Resistance looks.
  
  But after a few hours of playing I started losing interest in Resistance because it seemed to pit 
 you in room after room of just the same thing over and over sort to speak. You may not be in a 
 room per se, you may be outside, but you get the point. However, once you meet your first Stalker 
 tank at the end of the first few levels any boredom is promptly shot to pieces. The thing is a 
 spider-looking tank and to see it in action I believe is to see next gen programming for the first 
 time. It moves with the absolute fluidity you would expect from a movie and is just plain fun to 
 watch clamber over walls and cars as it tries to mini gun you to death. Taking it down is a joy 
 ride for sure.
  
  Although im not terribly far into the game, the Stalker tank has given me high hopes for resistance 
 in the variety and plain fun it can through at you. So great gameplay and solid graphics makes 
 this a game worth getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  Insomniac Games are one of the most famous develpoing companys in the world. The company known 
 for the Spyro series and Ratchet and Clank has earned the company the reputation it deserves. They 
 have started a new franchise on PS3, the iconic Resistance Fall of man. In Resistance you play 
 an american soldier named Nathan Hale. He is sent to England to eradicate a horrific virus known 
 as the Chimera. There is a lot of action and plenty of awesome weapons to choose from. Early in 
 the game Hale is infected but wakes up soon afterwards. Most of the time you'll be running and 
 gunning against many types of chimeran species while ducking behind cover to let your health recharge. 
 There are a lot of enemies from the standard Hybrid to the gigantic Widowmakers. You'll visit some 
 famous locations too like Cheddar Gorge in Somerset and Tower Bridge in London. The main story 
 takes about 11 hours to complete but there is an extremly fast paced multiplayer that pushes your 
 skills to the limit in 40 player matches. There have already been two map packs with more on the 
 way and as you level up and get medals you unlock additional clothing for your character. Overall 
 Resistance is a solid action game that should'nt be missed by any PS3 owner or FPS fan. It isn't 
 perfect but it is still an awesome game and I recomend it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demonkiller111
Rating: 10
Date: May 14, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I would say that in the first 5 minuets of this game I was hooked. I mean Fighting alians in our 
 home world useing WW2 weapons. AWSOME!!!! As I started to play I got even mor addicted to this 
 game to was VERY FUN!!! but I am starting to repete myself. I had to Beg my parents to let me play 
 this and they still kept saying NO NO NO!! It got fustrating but when I finaley showed then the 
 game wonderd if I was pulling a fast one on them. Because there is barely any blood And I mean 
 your shooting alians so it's not like grand theft auto where you kill inocent people for no reasone 
 whatsoever. Yeah yeah they do show a scean where people are in a cell and they get infected with 
 the Kimarah virus (the bug that turns people into alains) but the camra shifts away at the last 
 moment so all you see it nathan saluting in their honor and screams. So it isn't half bad. Now 
 to sum this review up I would say nice storyline nice A. I and nice visuals. I would qualify this 
 as a MUST BUY!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreakShow11
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 9, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man is a great game that shouldn't be overlooked. Resistance does a great job 
 making a story that no one has ever heard but also some what believable. The story is pretty lengthy 
 compared to game no a days. There is also online play which has gotten a lot of talk. It's the 
 first console game to support 40 players online and use's a real matchmaking system. There are 
 many game types from team deathmatch to meltdown. The maps have several size ranges that make you 
 feel like the game has 50 maps and keeps the repetitive feel away a bit longer. The game also has 
 clan support to make it easier for you and your friends to party up and play together online. The 
 ranking system is also great just needed to be harder to achieve the top rank to keep the motivation 
 going longer. Overall there are many things to do from single player to online to grinding your 
 rank that will keep you busy for some time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  The game is set around the time of World War II, but in this particular past, the chimera breed 
 is rapidly taking over Europe. Their existence began in Russia - under suspicious and mysterious 
 circumstances - and something went very wrong... before long, they owned Russia and most all of 
 Europe. You begin the game following the story of an American soldier, Nathan Hale, who is fighting 
 throughout war-torn England in a desperate attempt to save Europe before it falls completely to 
 the invading chimera.
  
  Control is relatively simple; it's exactly what you'd expect with a few minor twists. Obviously, 
 you use the left analog to move and the right to look, which is pretty standard stuff. The X button 
 is jump, the Triangle is used for melee attack, the Square is for reload, and the Circle is for 
 tossing whatever grenade you have equipped. You can change your equipped weapon or grenade by quickly 
 tapping the R2 button to cycle through your weapons. Or, you can hold down the R2 button to bring 
 up your inventory, where you can cycle through the weapons with the left analog and your grenades 
 with the d-pad.
  The weapons aren't quite as numerous as one might have expected, but that's actually good news. 
 The more weapons there are, the more chances there are of having utterly useless firearms. Each 
 and every weapon in the game is effective at numerous times throughout the game, and you'll soon 
 begin to greatly value every last one of them. Thankfully, the developers decided to give each 
 level a very distinct feel, and due to the wide variety of environments, you'll constantly be forced 
 to adapt and assimilate. And if that's not a giant positive in gaming, nothing is.
  
  
  The single-player campaign will take you about 10-14 hours to complete, depending on how fast you 
 go and how intent you are on capturing all the Intel scattered around every level. The story is 
 also quite good - something we didn't really expect from a first-person shooter - but they don't 
 waste your time with needless and numerous CGI movies or non-interactive cut-scenes. They simply 
 provide you with a solid plot, advance you through the game at a good clip, and keep you thoroughly 
 entertained from start to finish. In fact, we dare say it's one of the very few FPSs where the 
 single-player campaign is great enough so it might warrant a replay.
  
  Multi-player on the other hand is near endless...
  Of course, there is the multiplayer campaigne, 
 which is actualy just teh single player campaign but with two people, but thats not all.. Resistance 
 also includes several multiplayer games, everything from your run-of-the-mill, deathmatches to 
 a new, surprisingly charming, 'Meltdown' game, where 2 teams battle it out to take controle over 
 bases across a wide landscape.
  These game's are of course avalible for online use as well and can contain a massive 40 PLAYERS 
 across the globe!
  
  Overall, for the PS3's 'first born', it's a fully enjoyably experience that no FPS fan should miss 
 out on... even if it's just for the online options.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: socomsniper226
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Its not hard to describe a game that beats halo in everything. let's start off with the graphics, 
 their cartoon like but much much more thought out than halo, lets not forget that halo 3 was a 
 complete waste to buy for 60 bucks..
  
  The gameplay is amazing in every way. So what if it takes a lot of aspects of the best shooters 
 this beats them all. Online play with 40 players the hugest online play of any game, and guess 
 what, their making it with 60 players in the next game, call of duty 4 is great, but this is just 
 much better. co-op is something call of duty should have had. my favorite feature is co-op. The 
 aliens look great and they come in lot's of variety. The guns are great especially the sniper and 
 the auger. the environments are huge and also well thought out. even though the main character 
 doesn't have a voice, who needs one, master chief is getting old. It isn't as creepy as it could 
 have been, but who cares neither was resident evil 4. the voice acting from team mates is good, 
 and plus the story telling. Insomniac knows how to make games. 
  
  graphics: 10/10
  story:10/10:
  gameplay:10/10
  online:10/10
  replay: high
  
  Let's face it, this game beats 
 halo by a longshot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXLordSkyeXx
Rating: 10
Date: May 4, 2008 2:49 am PT
Review:  I like just about everything about the game...
  
  I liked the story of the game...
  I liked the single player mode...
  I liked the co-op mode...
  I liked the weapons...
  I liked 
 the vehicles...
  I liked the lock-on...
  
  Completing co-op/single player and then being able to find new and better weapons then next time 
 you play story mode was really cool...
  Every time you play it gets better and its never the exact same thing happening each time you play...
 
  
  Nathan Hale also had an interesting story...
  Being infected with the chimeran virus and then gaining more abilities/feats, it was pretty cool...
 
  
  I liked all the funny and cool things you can do on it, like throwing a grenade under an enemy 
 and then have them go flying from the explosion and like shooting a sapper bubble at someones face 
 and then exploding it and watching it make them fall over and especially throwing air-fuel grenades 
 at a person in a big grouped mob and then watching the enemy get flamed with all of his allies 
 and throwing hedgehog grenades at mobs and easily killing them...
  
  I'm rating it 10/10 Exelent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleBigGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: May 4, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Insomniac Games
  Released: March 23rd 2007 Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the first PS3 game to be released. 
 Modes: Single Player Story Mode, Co-op Story Mode, Online Multiplayer and Split Screen Multiplayer.
 
  
  Online Modes: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Meltdown, Capture the Flag, Conversion, Team Conversion 
 and Assault. and up to 32 playe4rs online!! The Good:
  Co-Op mode makes it funner.
  Online is cool and lots of modes
  Nice Weapons
  Nice Story Mode The Bad:
  there's not much 
 colour and the graphics could be better
  Story mode is kind of short
  
  Similar Games:
  Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare
  The Darkness
  F. E. A. R
  
  Overall a Successful exclusive 
 for the Playstation 3.
  AND WORTH ITS PRICE!! 
  
  Resistance 2 COMING SOON!! and its got colour in it
  also 64 player online and co-op online.
 
  
  GTG watching gladiators. CHALLENGER ARE YOU READY!! GLADIATOR ARE YOU READY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: agni_1
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 12:39 pm PT
Review:  With its solid story line good and the excellent game play will make you feel as though you have 
 stepped into your characters shoes this game is a must buy for anyone looking for a solid FPS. 
 The game's scope is huge and in certain set pieces you can see hundreds of enemies and allies battle 
 it out in huge detailed environments. It also offers tonnes of weaponry and grenades and the action 
 will keep you on your toes. The A. I. especially in the harder difficulties is a lot of fun to play 
 it and will push your skills to the maximum. RFOM strikes a delicate balance between challenging 
 and impossible that very few games nail. In fact you can argue that the A. I. enemy on harder difficulties 
 in RFOM is even better than the likes of COD4 and Halo3. The graphics are not going to blow away 
 anybody but everything is modeled very well and the characters look alive and real. 
  RFOM's multilayer is a great asset as it will have you coming back long after you have finished 
 with the single player. The sheer number of people will amaze you and there are no visible glitches 
 or lag even with all these people playing. RFOM is a solid experience overall that everyone should 
 enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a PS3 exclusive, and it should be. I don't want to talk about the story 
 because i don't want to make any spoilers for those who haven't played it yet. The game is a war 
 based FPS which offers nothing specially new but keeps everything going by doing everything how 
 it should and making you feel that it was worth buying it. The graphics are quite good at some times. The 
 story is quite interesting and the game-play is incredibly precise and cutting edge well done. One 
 of the bad things of the game is that in the end it's over. It isn't quite a long game but on harder 
 difficulty levels it can be quite a challenge and it could take a while to finish. The online play 
 is brilliant and is one of the games which you can play for months online without knowing that 
 you have been playing the same game for so long. It has happened to me. The online play suffers from 
 no lag and the frame rate doesn't suffer at all. I would recommend this game only to the FPS fans 
 and maybe a little bit to those who just want to kill some monsters and split their blood all over 
 the place.
  
  My Score 8.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Panthermattnyc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I loved this game when it was released, and I STILL love it now. Of course, my enduring affection 
 for R: FOM could very well have something to do with the fact that it was the first PS3 title I 
 bought.
  Some complain that the graphics are too "Last Gen" and, while I can't deny that Uncharted :Drake's 
 Fortune blows the doors off R: FOM, they still look pretty good to me!
  Some complain of the drab color palate, and to that I say: you're in war torn ENGLAND, which is 
 foggy and gray a lot anyway! This baby ain't supposed to be as bright and splashy as Ratchet and 
 Clank! If the color palate is depressing, I say "Spot on!" 
  Bottom line: The game looks great.
  Also, I have to say the pace of the game seems just right. 
 As there's no official tutorial (You are air dropped onto a street, in the middle of a fire fight) 
 the game throws enemies at you in dribs and drabs, so you can orient yourself with the gameplay. 
 Fear not, though, before too long, you'll be in the s**t, DEEP. While the game is not a tactical 
 shooter, it's not as frantically paced as, say Unreal Tournament III, either. 
  
  While I wouldn't classify the game as "Survival Horror" there's a palpable tension during some 
 sequences, particularly later in the game, and ANY time the game sics those dastardly cockroach/scorpion 
 things on you, it's creepy.
  
  Most of the game keeps you running through towns, tunnels, and secret bases, but there are a few 
 drive and shoot sequences to add some spice.
  
  Also, I have to say that the co-op mode is every bit as exciting as fun as single player, and it's 
 always a blast to have someone to help you with the slaughter!
  
  As far as weapons go, the Human weapons are pretty standard fare: Shotguns, Machine Guns, Sniper 
 Rifles, and frag grenades. They all work well, and you'll find uses for each, although you can 
 get through the majority of the campaign with the machine gun if you desire.
  
  The alien technology is where the real fun starts, though. The standard firearm for your enemies 
 is basically a Machine Gun with a few bells and whistles (and a little added oomph) , but you also 
 achieve guns that shoot through walls (and gain power the more things they travel through before 
 they find flesh) , guns that rain down ricocheting needles, and a gun that oozes explosive plasma. 
 It's a nice variety.
  
  All in all, Resistance: Fall of Man is a terrific, fun game, and one of the very best "Launch" 
 games ever. However, if you're one that's all about graphics, steer clear! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajulu
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a calm peaceful game.............. UNTIL YOU BLOW STUFF UP!! You get to choose from 
 many weapons and then pop chimeran until they had enouph. Some people like call of duty better 
 than this game and i feel you ,but if you dont like this game ***** you!!!! shoot stuff like in 
 gun practice. Let me tell you if you saw my other reviews you would know what i am talking about. 
 Now i should tell you about the game. you play a guy named nathan hale if you ask me i think all 
 people in video games want you to think for them you want to know why 'cause they dont do nothing.
 
  LIsten Nathan hale is agood shooter now lets see if you can shoot better i will be meeting you 
 online my name is Voke23652 i am going to beat you i am a true fps sniper so if i see you online 
 back the **** up you will be laying on the ground with a sniper bullet in your head. whoever wants 
 to play add me as a buddy on your ps3 and message me 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jekyll
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  One of the PS3's must-have titles, Insomniac generated a great game for launch. Nearly a hybrid 
 of the two most common shooters (WWII and aliens) , it melds everything nearly perfectly to provide 
 a fun, fast-paced, challenging experience.
  
  Playing as American soldier Nathan Hale in 1951, you're in a world where WWII never happened, but 
 was instead pre-occupied by an alien Chimera virus that wiped out Russia, creating more foot soldiers 
 for itself along the way. With it (and the vicious creatures it creates) having spread across Europe 
 and entering England, you're tasked with finding a way to stop it. Seemingly infected to a degree, 
 you have the handy ability to regenerate the full amount of whichever of your four life bars you're 
 currently down to. Weapons are a mix of WWII-style weaponry and alien technology (the Auger, whose 
 shots pass through walls, becoming more powerful with each thing it passes through being a prime 
 example) . For the most part it's a standard FPS, but enemies are refreshingly adept, using cover 
 and moving frequently to stymie your attack efforts. There are a few vehicle-based missions tossed 
 in, but they're quick and generally easy. Insomniac also brings over Skill Points from "Ratchet 
 and Clank", though you're typically too worried about simply living to deal with them. Taking place 
 in numerous British towns and countrysides, eventually you storm the Chimeran fortress in London, 
 hoping to take them down.
  
  Online multiplayer is a blast, with both typical solo and team deathmatches, and team-based games 
 like 'capture the flag'. Including map variants, there's around 20 different places you may end 
 up playing (either at random in Ranked play, or to choose for custom games) , and two maps packs 
 to buy expand the variety.
  
  The pacing and fun factor would be tough to improve upon. The blend of weapons is fairly unique, 
 as some are standard vintage weapons, some are of alien origin, and some seem to combine the two. 
 The result is lots of options to deal with the Chimeran horde. The soldiers who occassionally tag 
 alog to assist you are perfect. You can help them stay alive, and they'll help you toa degree, 
 but them dying won't hurt the game and they never pester you to do things or -- as is so often the 
 case with 'helpers' -- actively hinder your progress. The speed with which random online multiplayer 
 games is assigned is impressive, and there's often not more than 30 seconds between matches.
  
  There are a few issues with checkpoints being a bit far too apart or making you go through 
 a tough area again if you fail the boss-type creature at the end. There's also a bit of cheap behind-your-back 
 enemy spawning, which is a trend best left to last century. Online "ranked" matches claim to match 
 people of similar skill, but this is far from the case, as most matches will force n00bs to square 
 off against the most veteran of players. It's a bit grating when instead of 16 people in one map, 
 they could have put the bottom 8 in one map and the top 8 in another.
  
  The control scheme is fairly standard and customizable, but the default "zoom" command (clicking 
 R3) is too easily accidentally implemented in frenetic online play, leaving you defenseless. The 
 graphics are nicely done, well-detailed, and backgrounds taper off gradually instead of just "ending". 
 Sounds are typical of the genre, and weapons ricocheting all around makes online battles extra-intense. 
 With a lengthy single-person campaign, and online that stay fun even when you're losing endlessly, 
 bang for the buck couldn't be higher. The game ending hints at, and you're left wanting, a sequel, 
 so it's good one's coming soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti-Nerd_Gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 24, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  The main highlight of this game has to be the storyline. The story is so gripping, you dont even 
 notice it but you get sucked into the story. Another great thing about this game is the weapons. 
 Personally these guns and grenades and unique specialty guns were the best ive ever seen in a game. 
 The best gun has to be the arc charger with its quick killing, and the best grenade has to definitely 
 be the hedgehog with its spikes flying everywhere. THe graphics were decent, but not to catchy 
 to the eye. But I must say that the chimera look great in this game, very beastly and creepy looking. 
 The multiplayer action is awesome with all the flying projectiles and aliens and humans dukin it 
 out. On the badside is that when you play online, sometimes there are problems with the signal 
 strength and connectivity. Overall a great game to build off of for the sequel 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:34 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a game that is set during World War II, minus the events of the real 
 World War II. The story starts as American sergent Nathan Hale moves into battle in a ruined city 
 in Europe against the enemy the Chimera. (an alien race that started this game's World War II) 
 He succesfully accomplishes his first part of his mission, but very small aliens knock him out 
 and slowly infest him. He wakes up while another American soldier tells him to follow him and fight 
 more chimera.
  
  What I liked about this game is that it has great FPS controls. A perfect graphical look for the 
 game and the PS3. Intense battles. Great multiplayer. Online play. Co-op play.
  
  What I didn't like about this game is that single player was a little unfair. Some annoying enemies. 
 Lack of motion sensing gameplay.
  
  Overall, this is a great PS3 launch title. Great gameplay, perfect graphics make you want more 
 intense shooter games for PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _EXCON_
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 7:01 am PT
Review:  When I first bought my Ps3 i was pondering what game i should buy, i decided resistance so it can 
 butter me up and take my time until the meaty and manly games come out later on down the road. 
 Not only did this game become one of my best buys ever, i plan to play this game probably more 
 then any of the hyped up anticipated titles for Ps3.
  
  The Graphics for resistance...... amazing. Shows a little sneak peak of what the monster Ps3 can 
 do. The game play outstanding. The campaign has a beautifully molded plot and theres plenty of 
 action even for the middle easterners. what puts the icing on the cake is the unbelievable online. 
 40 player online with your favorite maps with friend all over the world is priceless. the campaign 
 alone will keep u busy for a good time with all of the variety of difficulties and incentives to 
 actually beat them because you are rewarded in the online mode. 
  
  If there is any doubt in your mid that resistance is not worth buying think again. It's not the 
 game where you buy it, beat it and toss it under your bed, the spectacular online will get you 
 hooked on resistance like tommya is hooked on Wii. Enough said, try it out and see if im wrong 
 because the fact of the matter is that this game is up there with the elite shooter games. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mudbusket
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  Insomniac's stunning PS3 exclusive, Resistance: Fall of Man, has effectively set the standard for 
 future shooters on our precious next-gen consoles. With its impressive graphical display, fluid 
 gameplay, and ominously rich plot, Resistance combines several different facets of the FPS genre 
 into one comprehensive experience that will literally chew you up and spit you out. 
  
  It's the middle of the 20th century and the entire country of Russia has fallen prey to a fiendish 
 new race of beasties commonly known as the Chimera. British intelligence first assumed that the 
 Russian government had developed a new type of devastating weapon, however, as the rest of Europe 
 and most of Asia fell within the course of a few weeks it became evident that the world was dealing 
 with a force that is decidedly inhuman. Now that the invasion has spread to the shores of England 
 it is up to a combined force of British and American troops to repel the Chimera and turn the tide 
 in a war that no one ever expected to fight. 
  
  Throughout the game you play as Sergeant Nathan Hale of the United States Army Rangers. You are 
 the sole survivor of a ruthless Chimeran attack almost as soon as you set foot on British soil, 
 which is a situation you'll become quite accustomed to as you progress in the game. 
  
  Although the story centers entirely around Hale, the narration is performed by a British officer 
 who interacts with him in the precious down time between horrific battle scenes. The bulk of acquired 
 knowledge about the Chimera is either presented by the narrator during cutscenes or discovered 
 in intelligence files scattered throughout different areas of the game. You will come to know your 
 enemy fairly well as your survive different fights, however, the character of Nathan Hale is forever 
 stoic and enigmatic. 
  
  One of the few drawbacks to this game stems from this noticeable lack of character development. 
 Hale speaks all of about three words throughout the course of the game, and almost no one else 
 can survive long enough to be considered as a key secondary character. If you're looking for colorful 
 personalities that illicit a little twinge in your heart when they inevitably bite the bullet (or 
 in this case, the burst of plasma) then you will quickly find yourself in short supply on the tattered 
 streets of England. 
  
  The game makes up for the lack of character development with a sufficient presentation of new intelligence 
 concerning the different types of Chimera and their tasty arsenal of weapons. Almost every new 
 enemy you face is paired with a new weapon to wield, and the diversity of said weaponry is likely 
 what will make the game for many hardcore shootists. Once your arsenal is complete you will find 
 yourself wondering whether you'd like to blow your enemy to shreds, pick them off in slo-mo from 
 a distance, or run around a corner and blast them with a well-placed shot through the wall. 
  
  Online play for Resistance is one of its highest selling points for those who simply aren't 
 satisfied with completing campaign mode. There are several types of games to choose from with fully 
 customizable rules, logs of your stats for both ranked and unranked matches, and the ability to 
 play as either humans or Chimera. To top it all off, online play is locked at 40 frames per second 
 to ensure quality play for everyone. Unless you're running a 56k modem out of Nicaragua then you 
 will likely never run into lag with Resistance online.
  
  Overall, Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the most comprehensive shooters available for the PS3. 
 The graphics are beautiful, the gameplay is dynamic, and the plot is richly overlaid with the prospect 
 of world domination by an inhuman race of monstrous hybrids. If you can get past the lack of character 
 elaboration then this game is a must-buy for PS3 owners everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bagman34
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 7:44 am PT
Review:  As I write this, Resistance has been out for nearly two years. I have played launch titles for 
 many new consoles well after they were released and for the most part you can usually see how dated 
 they are. Even if they were well reviewed games, time wears at them making them much less fun then 
 when they were first released. As far as I am concerned this has not happened to Resistance, even 
 after playing such new games as Crysis and Bioshock, Resistance still manages to bring on an intense 
 and interesting shooter. 
  
  I am still very impressed by the graphics of the game, they are gritty, realistic and detailed. 
 Someone spent a lot of time polishing the look of this game. There are games that have great graphics, 
 but when what your looking at really doesn't help the game then it isn't worth anything. 
  
  The sounds in the game are also very good, you could easily get away with making using similar 
 sounds for things like monsters and guns, but Resistance makes a new and interesting sound for 
 every aspect of the game, from every gun, to grenade, to enemy you encounter. You could nearly 
 play the game without looking at it and know exactly is happening on the screen from the sounds. 
 
  
  The storyline is not as amazing as some that have come out, but not nearly as shallow either. You 
 get just enough motivation to keep playing. There are some interesting twists and turns as well 
 that keep you interested in what is happening and not just in blowing stuff up.
  
  Overall this is a solid shooter that does all the right things to make this a game that can withstand 
 the test of time. There is plenty of content in the game as well making feel like a real value 
 for the money you spend. Most shooters today never make the 10 hour mark, but this one does easily. 
 I don't see why they don't just bundle this game with the PS3.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxArchSagexXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I had really high expectations for this game and even though it didn't really meet my expectations... this 
 game was still great! The campaign was good and I happened to like the story. Game play was cool. 
 The graphics, of course, were awesome! 
  After i had beaten the campaign mode, I went into online play and it's..... beautiful.... There's 
 like 40 players in 1 match and it's so much fun!
  The more the players the greater the match is!
  RS: FoM may not seem that great but it actually 
 is. It was certainly enough to keep me and my friends occupied for a period of time!
  I would always go online on this game and have a blast with all my friends and stuff....
  This 
 game, as a launch title, is actually pretty good. I recommend this game to any person interested 
 in playing an awesome war game with great multiplayer..... It's a bit scary at some points though 
 lol, and It has alot of suspense and it's nice and has fast paced action which makes it all the 
 better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  I never liked war games before but this game: Resistance: Fall of Man change my mind and the only 
 reason I got it was because I got it for a really good deal.
  When you play offline to beat the game it is so fun, the graphics are awesome and difficulty of 
 the whole game can be picked; easy, normal, hard whatever you want it.
  After beating the game I went online and OMG! It is addicting. Once you get into your first game 
 against to a lot of people (up to 40  that's a lot of fun) it becomes an addicion trying to get 
 on the next rank getting medals and get to kill as many guys as you can.
  In general this game changed the way of thinking of war game and this game I can put it on one 
 of the best hits for PlayStation 3, in my opinion, I don't know if you agree.
  You can spend hours and hours online and I know for sure you are not going to get bored at all.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cravinmild
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 4, 2008 5:59 pm PT
Review:  The game is good. Very good. If i had of played this game at ps3 launch i would have thought it 
 was downright awsome. There a minor/little things about the game that i thought were very cool 
 ie. breaking glass feels good, buildings and cars are more than just empty shells, some of the 
 detail is very well done. Some things they have done are just average ie. Very drab and color less, 
 very point A to point B, some new weapon types that are ok, more or less what u would expect from 
 a FPS. There is nothing about this game (rented in april 08) that is cutting edge. All has been 
 done befor and befor befor bef....... u get the idea. This is NOT to say the game is bad. Infact 
 it is really fun just not cutting edge anymore. No shadows, water effects, blur motion, sixaxis 
 tilt, lacks the motion picture effect we have come to expect. Call of Duty 4 this game is not but 
 hey short of crysis what else is. It is worth renting but glad i got cod4 instead. Feel abit like 
 im playing a HL2 cross (any shooter out there) ps3 version of halo. I will have to give my old 640mb 
 8800 gts a hug for thinking it was over the hill. A game like this makes bio shock, crysis (even 
 at low fps) fun and alive again. This is a must play title for ps3 but dont think u will be moved 
 by this game IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GtKiNg29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  This game is incredible. I am surprised it didn't get a 9 or higher. The goods: INCREDIBLE multiplayer; 
 mainly because it is the ONLY game i have been undefeated for 15 matches and it runs smoothly. 
 Guns; they are awesome (needed all of them in multiplayer) Nathan Hale being the main character; 
 this guy is a beast. A BEEEEEEEEEEEEEEAST! ( did you get it by now?) long single and co-op gameplay; 
 40 hours of gameplay is high in FPSs, unlike 8 or 15.
  
  The bads: gameplay; the enemies are tough and have no weakness, so you have to shoot and shoot 
 and shoot and shoot until they go down, no strategy involved. Story; sure, it is nice but it involved 
 wayyyy more bad than good. Price; it won't go down. co-op character; who is that?
  
  All in all, you must own this. i love it and i can't wait until Resistance 2 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 7:43 am PT
Review:  Graphics = Great, when you get up close to an enemy you can tell time was put in to the design. 
 The cut scenes have alot of story told through old black and white photos, But its still pretty 
 fitting.
  
  
  Controls = Pretty much standard FPS controls, and they seemed responsive in time of need
  
 
  
  Story = The premise is good enough, but the main character isnt interesting enough to really keep 
 you attached, I didnt really care if he got killed and I got to play another character, but that 
 never happened.
  
  
  Difficulty = Medium to seemingly impossible at times, There were times im like this is gonna be 
 a breeze, But than Id be struggling to get to a checkpoint like "C'mon!"
  
  
  Weapons = Some unique weapons, the main chimera gun is a bit sloppy but its secondary fire locks 
 all bullets to a target which is sweet!, there are a couple basic guns too like a shotgun, a sniper 
 rifle, and a machine gun. But my favorite is a gun called the auger, its bullets drill through 
 cover and still hit their target.
  
  
  Replayability = Pretty high because this game is long, and the multiplayer will keep you busy for 
 days with its 40 player rooms... Oh and just announced the dual shock 3s are coming which is what 
 all FPS need. RUMBLE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-Sephiroth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This was my first game for my PS3 and i was quite impressed by it. Its a very entertaining FPS 
 that gives you enough ammunition (excuse the pun) to complete the game on all difficulty levels.
 
  
  The campaign is nice and long and gives you plenty of bang for your buck (sorry, another pun) , 
 and ranges from action packed gin fights through the cities, close quaters building to building 
 fights and dark creepy Chimera tunnels and chambers. The campign is very enjoyable to play and 
 you feel right in there at the fore of the action.
  
  The graphics are very good although i get the feeling that it does not really test the PS3 as much 
 as newer games will. The sound effects are also very good, and give you warnings of impending danger, 
 rattling bangs from the rifle and the odd squelchy sound when you blow the Chimera to bits! 
  
  There are an intersting variety of weapons which all have secondary functions which really 
 add a new dimension to the game. The varied functions of the weapons give you several ways to kill 
 your enemy and some (as you'll discover with experimentation) are more effective than others. These 
 differeing weapons are also a very good laugh on multiplayer.
  
  The multiplayer games (both online and offline) provide endless enterainment, and the added bonus 
 of a co-op mode for campaign play. This comes in very handy on the tricky "Superhuman Mode". There 
 are different games and rules to play with or against your friends in offline mode, and an enourmous 
 online community to compete with, as well as the added "Medals" for online achievements, allowing 
 you to guage your opponents ability at the game.
  
  All in all this is a very neat FPS that you shouldnt really find much wrong with at all. I am currently 
 just a few levels away from completing it on "Superhuman Mode" and have to say that i love this 
 game. A must have for FPS fans with a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Narutofan30
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Well RFOM is a great game all around. The story is cool and the plot is pearfect but its just a 
 warm up for online. But dont just skip to Online play atlest half the story and get a feel for. 
 
  
  Story: Cool, Lots of action and the plot and Characters are awesome. I havent had the time to beat 
 it. Its based on a 4 of 5 day periode of an american soilder whos whole fleet got wiped out and 
 he joins the english. Ofcourse alians are attaking and stuff. So its cool.
  
  Online: The games Begin! You start as a privet and try to get to Supreme Comander! When you start 
 out youll be ok and you probaly wont get many kills no matter what other shooter you played. Privates 
 are Noobs but if you axcell Youll be a Corpral in no time. You can creat a soilder and the higher 
 Rank you are the more cloths and stuff youll get! Warning Never Go close combate ageinst a Supreme 
 Comander Or Guy with Scull Head!
  
  Sound: Cant Get any Better.
  
  Game Play: Best war game on PS3. Some Lag Online.
  
  Picture: Some Glitches online but ive 
 never got stuck in somthing one anymode.
  
  Overall 10/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevo_the_gamer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  Your first impression, from the first cinematic - you're kind of lost, are these aliens? Or is 
 this the virus? I had to re-watch the first cinematics to comprehend what the situation was. Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is a science-fiction first person shooter which combines some of the many good FPS 
 elements in it, however, the game just ends up being another generic and rather, at times, uninteresting 
 shooter. Resistance is by far, the best launch title of the Playstation 3, and if one is to buy 
 a PS3 - I would point them in this direction.
  
  The setting and plot in Resistance is something you wouldn't expect: historical events have been 
 changed, the end of first Great World War leads to a prosperous European alliance and global peace, 
 preventing the Great Depression, the rise of the Nazis in Germany, and World War II, but also leads 
 to the rise of an isolationist Russian Empire, one that is still under czarist rule. In 1921, Russia 
 initiated a communications blackout with the rest of the world, and built a wall against its European 
 border called the Red Curtain. In December 1949, the Red Curtain is suddenly breached by numerous 
 Chimera forces. The Chimera overrun continental Europe by February 1950, leaving very few survivors. 
 The Chimera then proceed to dig underneath the English Channel, invading England in late 1950. 
 The bulk of the British forces are wiped out, with the rest fleeing to scattered bases in the northern 
 parts of Britain.
  
  This is where the game begins, you play as Sgt. Nathan Hale, as part of the United States Army 
 Rangers five thousand man task force to help liberate Britain and to retrieve some sort of a secret 
 weapon that the British claim can be used against the Chimera. The human forces initially believe 
 the Chimera to be the result of a biological experiment gone wrong, but through events and revelations 
 during the course of the game, along with the Chimeras' advanced technologies such as weather control, 
 energy weapons, and force fields, it becomes obvious to the humans that the Chimera are extraterrestrial 
 in origin. The Chimera army expands by infecting humans with a mutagenic virus which causes its 
 victims to fall into a coma, transforming them into Chimera.
  
  The visuals and sound in Reistance are good to say the least. For a launch title, Resistance was 
 the best looking Playstation 3 title. The voice acting, the sound design, and the score all sound 
 great, my only complaint is that some of the weapons sound "weak" as I would put it. Not enough 
 "oomph" as I would call it. Other than that, everything sounds great. The enemies look good, though 
 obvious AI stupidity, move and act fair enough as well.
  
  The gameplay is generic, but its FPS elements are good since most of them are taken from other 
 successful shooters. Each weapon in Resistance provides a unique play style and strategy in the 
 game, such as one gun is has just a rapid fire, but when you use the alternate fire for this weapon, 
 the round will go through walls - borrowing through it going faster. The game has grenades, the 
 game has melee and yes, supposedly realistic jumping. The motion sensing I thought was a little 
 tacked on, but done well to say the least. Whenver you are grabbed, you can shake the controller 
 and it will get the enemy off of you. You will eventually be able to drive a vehicle and get on 
 the turret of a jeep as well.
  
  Overall, Resistance is a great game for the Playstation 3; however, compared with todays' games 
 and shooters - it pales in comparison. If you own a PS3 this game is certainly worth playing, and 
 with the good multiplayer which can consist of 20 versus 20 players, it's very hectic and very 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrMessAround
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 6:25 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for my PS3 and it has cleared any doubts on whether the ps3 was worth 
 the money. The game play is easy to get a hold of but not too easy. The graphics show why the PS3 
 is a next console, the sound is rich and has a thrilling ambiance. A great story with a good campaign. 
 In single player and in co-op. With 4 different difficulties. But the multi-player is where the 
 game will have you hooked the most, up to 40 players in a game. Many maps to play in and more maps 
 to download on the PlayStation store. With ingenious guns from the makers of ratchet and clank 
 you will find many uses of every gun in the game. If you are buying a PS3 buy Resistance: Fall 
 of Man or wait for Resistance 2 in October. Resistance Fall of man is a great addition to the already 
 amazing collection of PS3 games out now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  This is insomniacs launch title for the PS3.
  
  Short Story: Just get it dude come on, just come on
  
  The story is that A alien virus has 
 raged though Russia and into Europe all that is left is Brittan. You are Nathan Hale a member of 
 an American force sent to help Brittan out. Its up to Nathan to save the small nation from the 
 Chimera.
  You fight against hoards of Chimera. this game features many weapons to slay the aliens. Over all 
 the story and voice acting really adds to the experience.
  Multi-player: there is co-op through out the whole game. As well as a brillant online experience 
 with a considerable amount of game and character customization.
  
  PROs: Many guns, great game play, superb online, co-op, superb story, Good graphics, Awesome grenades 
 "kaboom", fairly long
  
  CONs: Takes a bit to long to kill ppl 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fhoeiuwhdousah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is too much, really, really awesome. 
  
  The replay value is very good first you get the story mode which is like a mix of half life, halo, 
 call of duty, unreal and more. Basicley it takes the best bits from all recent FPS's and puts it 
 together in a mostley linier great looking war zone in england where you fight an alien force, 
 the chimera. 
  
  You fight a variety of enemies which all look great and are fearsome to and challlenging to fight. 
 The difficulty is perfect, i played it on medium first and completed within about 2 weeks playing 
 while also trying the online. I then played through on hard in about 4 days recently when i got 
 my new tv and discovered the 2nd time is way bettter as you get about 4 new weapons which are bery 
 cool, this makes the guns unmatched since perfect dark on n64.
  
  Online is also really good when you find the right battles the possibilities are endless with such 
 a great variety of guns and grenades theres always a new way to play as long as you not fighting 
 uber players then its like just try not to die too much. You get medals for various things and 
 its adds a sense of accomplishment and they look cool. Online rocks.
  
  Yeh i prefer this game to COD4 its just awesome if youve not played it get it its pure fun and 
 great looking.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rester
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:54 pm PT
Review:  RFOM puts you in the shoes of Nathan Hale, an American soldier leading the fight against the Chimera 
 alien invasion. The slight twist is that the game takes place in the 40-50's so the scenery are 
 a mix of Halo and CoD. Overall the plot doesn't get in the way of the action too much but leaves 
 behind a few loose ends that will probably be addressed in the sequel.
  
  Environment are not the only thing that RFOM borrows from classics like Halo, COD and Half Life. 
 It plays very similarly to, which is definitely not a bad thing. Even though the difficulty level 
 is not incredibly high, the games requires a fairly tactical approach and the use of cover is essential. 
 A good knowledge of the weapons is also critical to succeed. This is where RFOM really shines with 
 weapons never before seen in an FPS. Besides your typical machine gun (lifted straight from WWII) , 
 shotgun and missile-launcher, you have really cool alien weapons. In particular, one is a machine 
 gun that allows you to tag enemies and subsequently hit them with tag-seeking bullets. Another 
 one allows you to identify and shot enemies through walls, while another shoots ricocheting laser 
 needles. Mastering each weapon becomes important to get through some of the game's toughest sections, 
 where your typical Halo approach would get you immediately shot.
  
  The game s well paced and alternates very intense, large battle sequences with more tactical situations 
 requiring the use of sniper rifles or, as mentioned before, specific weapons. Vehicle levels (pulled 
 directly from Halo even though Halo are thrown in for good measure and overall work pretty well. 
 Halo does a better job at integrating them in the overall stream of the game (here you separate 
 have vehicle and on-foot sequences) and they are not particularly challenging but are a nice variation.
 
  
  Enemies are quite smart and offer a substantial challenge, forcing to you to think through the 
 situation as opposed to get in a room and shoot everybody. The game also does a good job at not 
 frustrating you and making you feel rewarded when you put up a good fight. The absence of bosses 
 is quite disappointing. The few that are there are not particularly tough and get recycled a lot. 
 This culminates in the final level where you would expect to fight something BIG but ... you don't. 
 Level design is good but not particularly varied, bot in terms of situations and sceneries. You 
 basically have indoor houses, city streets, country and alien base. Structurally, the game relies 
 way more on the placement of covers to drive the action than in the design of the levels.
  
  Graphically the game does a good job at rendering indoor and outdoor environment, even though 
 you will rarely be blown away by what you see. The alien structures are particularly well done 
 (but very unoriginal, being a mix of Half Life 2 and Halo) , the cities are just OK. Not bad but 
 CoD has done a better job in the past. You will come across blurry textures, low-poly objects and 
 other little things that makes the game feel less alive than it should. Enemy models are great 
 and animation are on par. Also noticeable are the smoke and fire particle effects.
  
  Sonically the RFOM is great. Weapons and explosions are on point. Music accompanies the action 
 appropriately without being intrusive and voice acting (mainly in the story-telling sequences) 
 is good.
  
  The campaign is probably 10-12 hours long, and after you get to the (disappointing) conclusion, 
 you feel you have experienced all the game had to offer. There is on-line as well but I haven't 
 tried it.
  
  All in all a good game, the closest thing to Halo on the PS3 - that makes it particularly worthy 
 if you don't own a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:24 am PT
Review:  CHIMERA ATTACKS, and omg ,they`re so stupid terrorists. Anyway, Resistance ,fall of man is one of 
 the best fps games, But the game does have some minor flaws ,But nonethless, its a very decent FPS.
 
  
  
  Story
  The story revolves around Nathan Hale, a US sergeant who is brought into a war that the British 
 are having with an unknown and monstrous new species known as the Chimera. The game is set in an 
 alternate reality version of 1951 in Europe where World War II never happened, but a war of massive 
 proportions is still going on between all of mankind and the aforementioned Chimera, thus setting 
 the stage for Resistance's battles and overall feel and experience.
  
  
  Graphics
  While it's not the prettiest game out there, it provides the perfect atmosphere that almost can't 
 be beat, that is to say that a lot of things are done well, and they look really good too. The 
 texture work could use some improving, but character models all look really good and freakishly 
 detailed, the environment is rich with the detail that could be found in the tattered remains of 
 a city, and overall, everything looks really, really good, save for looking at some objects up 
 close.
  
  Performance
  This game was fine-tuned to the very last piece of data. It's framerate stays at a nice 30 frames/second 
 throughout the entire single-player campaign, during all of the co-op levels (you can play through 
 the entire single player campaign cooperatively) , and even online, giving Sony a nice foothold 
 for it's new online plan, and also giving us a taste of what it's capable of. Also, it runs perfectly. 
 With no flaws in the design whatsoever, this game is truly a masterpiece. Good job Insomniac!
 
  
  Sound
  A killer app isn't complete without sound, is it? Well, Resistance doesn't skip on this. With realistic 
 sound booming from every corner of the battlefield, this game has a stellar sound design that will 
 undoubtedly make you euphoric. So, go out and get some surround sound speakers, because this game 
 will put them to the test.
  
  Gameplay
  While nigh a first-person shooter has come out in awhile to really re-invent the genre gameplay-wise, 
 this game comes close with innovative and fun weapons, a great feel, and perfect handling. The 
 guys at Insomniac really went all out on this one. Also, while the Chimeras aren't rocket scientists, 
 they do provide a good challenge and will occasionally surprise you by flanking and ambushing you. 
 As well as that, they all act believable and have some of the best physics ever seen for enemies 
 (or allies for that matter) , so if you shoot, blow up, or burn an enemy, they will act realistically 
 and flail about in an incredibly believeable way, adding that much more pleasure out of fragging 
 the opposition.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  With online support for 40 people at a time, co-op play through the entire single player game, 
 and a lengthy campaign to boot, this is the gift that keeps on giving. Also, on top of that, the 
 story is intriguing and cryptic, giving you incentive to play through the entire game to find out 
 where everything ends up, and even enough to play through it again since along with story snippets 
 in the form of documents and such, you also get some nice secret weapons after beating the game 
 on medium difficulty. 
  
  Flaws
  Though the game itself is very outstanding in its gameplay and visauls, the whole walkthrough isnt 
 very fun playing without a friend, then it gets a little boring. Some medicore graphics are also 
 doesnt really feel attractive, and the last part of the game leaves you hangin in a cliff Hanger.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -HaloHitman-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a great game that you will want to play over and over, the story is good, and the 
 action is great, I dont know if you have noticed that they are making a second resistance game. 
 That is how great this game is, it has alot of amazing looking weapons that have cool special abilities 
 to go along with it. There are not that many charecter's in the game, which I think is a bummer.
 
  This game is kindof like halo, if you look at it a certain way you can see why. The game lets 
 you get achievements in the game when you find all of the hidden files or you do something amazing 
 in the game. Its kinda hard, even when you play on easy, which I think is really dumb. If you love 
 Sci-Fi, and fantasy games, then this game is a good game for you I would rent it first, before 
 you but it becouse its not all that satisfying and it will leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a very unique game and was a brilliant title for SONY to launch with 
 - if only i had bought it at lanuch and not earlier this year when i had a few quid to spare!
 
  The story for this game is very unusual and I think that a very strange path was taken to reach 
 this idea (an alternate WWII era Britain where Aliens are trying to invade instead of the Nazis) . 
 The environments are quite good although at times look like something you could find on late PS2 
 games and i'm not just saying that because i am from Manchester! They draw you into the story and 
 are often quite scary - especially in missions set in bunkers underground! The one annoying thing 
 is the narration by a typically upper class female who can begin to wear on you as she crops up 
 every hour or so.
  The multiplayer section of the game is very robust - with players able to join a game almost instantly 
 with negligible loading times. Voice chat is also a nice feature which was missing in COD3 - a 
 game similar in many ways to this title. Ranking up is also rewarded with a huge amount of new 
 equipment which is nice to see when you spend quite some time playing a particular game. 
  Overall, a good game to buy now like I did, if your current games are getting a bit old and you 
 need something to carry you on until GTA IV is released! (a game i will definately be playing and 
 reviewing for you guys!)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vravage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  From the creators of Disruptor, Spyro the Dragon and the highly crowned Ratchet and Clank series 
 comes Resistance: Fall of Man (RFOM) . It is a first-person shooter that gets better by the hour, 
 lets the player dive in the universe and thereby leaves him loving the game. 
  
  8/10 ::: The story in RFOM, well ... throw in a next-gen game on an next-gen console russians, 
 mutations and a small dose of horror and you have a very classic yet bold action-packed story. 
 To give it specific: A few months before the second World War the Russian biologists are trying 
 to create the ultimate super soldier, capable of listening to its masters and not a mindless zombie 
 eating everyone's brains. The first experiments fail and turns the human subjects in -indeed- mindless 
 horrific creatures who surprisingly know very well how to handle a weapon and duck behind a wall 
 (but those are minor problems) . Anyway, those subjects break out of Russia and thereby turning 
 the afflicted victims into one of them: The Chimera. Before we know it Europe is overrun and the 
 second World War begins. When the Chimera get to the U. K. there are American reinforcements coming 
 their way. One of them is Nathan Hale...
  
  9/10 ::: Graphics are solid in this game and literally blows you away if this is your first PS3 
 game. Facial expressions are masterful executed certainly when the enemy gets angry. Cities look 
 abandoned, Buildings from the inside look ravaged and sci-fiction looks are fantastic. Uniforms 
 look real, blood is fascinating and the long and razor-sharp teeth from the enemies look gorgeous. 
 To all the good things there has to be one thing but it is so small it almost isn't an issue: the 
 colors. When you look sharp at the game. It almost has a gray layer over it, and all the colors 
 in the game have a bit of a grim color on them.
  
  9/10 ::: Sound in RFOM is well done, environment sounds are good but just listen to the gun shots 
 and action-packed sounds. Just revolutionary. The Chimera sound really scary and yet very berserk-like 
 aggressive. Voice acting is not bad although it could have been more. When you are wandering around 
 the classics "door-crack" sounds are back. Also, explosion impact sounds are terrific if not satisfying.
 
  
  9/10 ::: The gameplay in RFOM isn't very hard, but is certainly not very easy either! Melee attacks 
 work extremely well in this game and the many weapons in the game and their functions make the 
 game still interesting even after the 3rd time you complete the campaign. Nathan Hale (the protagonist 
 you are playing) also has a gains his full health after a certain amount of time he is out of combat, 
 again, this adds a very fair aspect in the gameplay, which is good, because i hate unfair games. 
 
  Like i said, the Chimera are smart and will seek cover when they can or send some others to take 
 you down. They will also run for grenades (apparently they know what that is) . As i also said, 
 there are so many weapons in RFOM and each have their useful and special ability. The sci-fi Bullseye 
 for example can shoot fast bullets and tracking bullets. With this weapon you don't need a good 
 aim! With the Augur you can shoot through the walls and so there are a dozen of these weapons.
 
  
  86/100 ::: Resistance: Fall of Man is a near-perfect shooter that provides a satisfying Campaign 
 and unlockables, but also a very terrific multiplayer mode. The main "problem" is that Resistance 
 is sometimes predictable, which is sometimes too bad. Like rooms full of enemies over and over 
 again, for example.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: godofwarfan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is a great game in a lot of ways. One way that it is great is the weapons 
 never get old of shooting at the aliens. The most creative would be the sapper because it shoots 
 bubbles that explode if you step on them. The story is good but not great. It would be so much 
 better if they could have told you a little more about Nathan Hale ( the person you play as in 
 campain) and the Chimeria. One of the best things about Resistance Fall of Man is the Multiplayer. 
 Up to 40 players can fight at one time. The mulitplayer is cool because of all the maps and some 
 of the maps are really big. It would have been nice if there was vehicles you could drive like 
 there was in the campain. The driving sequences in Resistance Fall of Man are few and far between. 
 When you get to drive the vehicles, it fells like you are playing a driving part from the Halo 
 series. You can drive a jeep, a stalker, a tank, and some other stuff. Europe, Asia, and a few 
 other places are being attacked by a alien force called the Chimeria. They have a few forms such 
 as the Hyprid, Advanced Hyprid, Crawler, Leaper, Menial, Steelhead, Howler, Titan, Slipskull, Gray 
 Jack, Hard Fang, Roller, Widowmaker, and the toughest, the Angels. I would guess there is about 
 15 hours or so. Not too long, not too short. I would recommend this game to anybody with a PS3 
 and likes shooters. This game is worth buying a PS3 just for Resistance Fall of Man. This game 
 is worth using your time on if you get a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atomic4000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  ... that i got for my Playstation three when i got it and i must say that it was a very good way 
 to start my PS3 collection. It was good and i hope the second one lives up to the brilliantness 
 of the first. The multiplayer was quite good but could perhaps of been improved by the participation 
 of Computer controlled characters meaning that it would bring in a single player mode apart from 
 the campaign. The Campaign was very good and York was a amazing first level that introduces the 
 enemies and your player. Grimsby is also great in the way that it introduces different types of 
 enemy into the game suttley and smoothly. The Range of weapons is brilliant ranging from futuristic 
 weapons such as the Bullseye with its tag to the Good old shotgun with it brilliant double shot 
 function. 
  One of the best games to hit the PS3 and i'm only hoping that the second one will be able to live 
 up to the reputation that it has from the First; Fall of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 26, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  Resistance is just overall "satisfying", it does everything you would want a shooter to do, from 
 dropping you in a tank to blow folks up, to giving you sweet weapons that are fun to fire, and 
 even putting you in some crazy locations with a bunch of chimera that are rather easy to kill. 
 Not to mention some of the wierd vehicles you will be jumping in to blow things up. Anyhow everything 
 pulls together well here, with a rather brief story that is told by a narator, although not alot 
 to it s pretty intresting and with the short cut scenes you getting right back in action. The weapons 
 are great and different and you should enjoy the multitude you get to play with here. Its about 
 a 12hour or so campaign just good enough to make you really get hooked then kinda "leave you hangin" 
 for part two of coarse. As you play you become immune to the chimera virus and your really the 
 only man who can help, there fore you are a LONE GUNNER and the game focus is entirely on you, 
 so its not a TEAM effort, which i personally Love the RAMBO feel of it all. All and all if your 
 a shooter fan then you gotta get this one, you'll enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-ManAFC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was the game that was included inside the PS3 package that I purchased 
 for Christmas and believe me it is a joy to have. I played it on Christmas Night after a long frantic 
 session of Call of Duty 4 and was gobsmacked by the graphical detail and not to mention the bundle 
 of tactical and frenzied firefights that go with it. I was especially spooked at first of how difficult 
 it was to play on just Normal mode. 
  
  In terms of the firefights, the game bares some small similarities to that of Gears of War on the 
 Xbox360 where you must utilize cover efficiently and keep your aim steady and sharp, there is a 
 fair likelihood that if you're playing this game on Normal or higher, running around shooting at 
 the Chimera at point-blank range like a complete madman won't pay off and will make the game feel 
 a tad intimidating at times (especially if they're attacking you and your allies in squads) . 
 
  
  The game has a very well executed and cinematic storyline that should sit well with sci-fi fans 
 and also comes with plenty of exciting and thrilling twists that add to the playing experience 
 aswell, combined with a frenzied and hugely enjoyable multiplayer mode for up to 40 players which 
 should be enough to tide most players over until Resistance 2 arrives later in the year
  
  In conclusion, Resistance: Fall of Man deserves its place in the collection of magnificent first-person 
 shooters of our time and although its not on the same scale as Halo to the Xbox in terms of console 
 exclusives, R: FOM does the PS3 plenty of justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dieyetagain
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man offers an awesome campaign mode, where you get to shoot your way through 
 the enemy Chimera and defeat 'The Angel'. Online on this game is outstanding getting to customize 
 your character for your wanted looks and clothes, getting ranked up to 'Supreme Commander'.
  Also the campaign offers a system called 'skill points'. The higher skill points you get the more 
 clothes you unlock. If you complete all skill points you get a Special Ops kind of looking uniform. 
 If you complete all skill points and defeat the hardest skill you will get the Special Ops uniform 
 with a skull head! You get skill points by throwing a grenade and killing 3 chimera, or killing 
 5 chimera with the Bullseye in under 15 seconds etc.... 
  
  Lets get down to some scores shall we? We'll start with the graphics. The graphics on Resistance 
 is a work of masterpiece the two things that stood out for me were the shooting of the glass. Oh 
 my god it looks fantastic! The other thing was when you shot a tire on a car. It would pop! You 
 could see it deflate! Also the car tilted to whichever tire was shot! I give the graphics a 10/10 
 i did not see anything wrong with the graphics.
  
  The sound is absolutely awesome. The music on the menu is spine tingling awesome. The gunshots 
 are sick and the chimera when they attack sounds creepily good. I had no problems with the sound. 
 10/10.
  
  Now we reach the gameplay. I explained most of it before but the story line is great you'll have 
 to buy it and see for yourself. The gameplay as i said is up the top. I give the gameplay a 10/10.
 
  
  Which gives us around a 10/10 PERFECT GAME BUY IT NOW OR MISS OUT FOR THE RESISTANCE 2 COMING SOON!!
 
  
  Review written by Dieyetagain
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  From Ratchet and Clank to a WWII setting but where WWII never happened and an alien invasion on 
 Europe instead. British and Amercian troops are humanities last hope to survive. 
  
  You play as a no non-sense Sgt. named Nathan Hale. You may play with a sqaud of a dozen or more. 
 You might also fight alone in dark situattions. The aliens are named the Chimera and there are 
 many different types of them and many different types of vehicles. 
  
  In the SP you do get to drive a bunch of vehicles. First comes a tank very powerfull and very destructive. 
 Then there is a jeep where you drive and someone else will use a turret to shoot your enemies. 
 You can also run down enemies which is more satisfying. The SP is about 15 hours long or evan more 
 you will be playing it for a long time. 
  
  On to the MP there is a ranking system where you earn rewards for different weapons and acheivments. 
 Also as you lvl up in the real mylitary ranks you unlock new customization for your character. 
 There are many maps out and 2 map packs are avalibe I recommend picking this game up evan if your 
 not into shooters.
  
  All in all Resistance: Fall of man is an amazing realistic game for MP and SP. And you should not 
 miss out on this wonder!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wej_accept_it
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 1:41 am PT
Review:  PS2 owners spent a long time suffering with no truly great FPS games. At best they got the likes 
 of Red Faction, TimeSplitters and Snow Blind. Meanwhile Halo, Half Life 2 and Metroid Prime ran 
 amok on other platforms. 
  Resistance: Fall of Man isn't the next Half Life, nor is it the next Halo. Thankfully for PS3 owners 
 though, it takes the best parts of Halo and Call of Duty to present an overall great FPS that will 
 appeal to any action gamer.
  
  Resistance's story takes place in 1951 in an alternate reality where WW2 never happened. Instead 
 a bizarre monstrosity known only as the Chimera took over all of Europe and Asia. The Chimera's 
 origins are only hinted at and overall the game feels like a short chapter in a larger story (similar 
 to Halo 1) . The player takes control of a US soldier sent to London to help liberate the country 
 from the Chimera and attempt to stop their destruction of the human race. The charecter, Nathan 
 Hale, is a two dimensional as they come, he rarely speaks and spends most of his time glaring at 
 someone. Besides looking a lot like Jason "The Transporter" Stathan there's nothing special about 
 him. 
  
  The gameplay is the focus here and thankfully it is excellent. Combat is tense, explosive and there's 
 several large set piece battles, often involving large troop numbers on both sides. Vehciles and 
 semi-destrcutive environments lend themselves well to the action. The first time enemy gun fire 
 decimates a wall you're hiding behind reminds you that this is very much a next gen game. The vehcile's 
 might as well have Halo trademarked on them, they're so similar but that isn't exactly a bad thing.
 
  The game's levels remain exciting and enjoyable thanks largely to the diverse weapons. The game 
 has a heavy arsenal of weapons and grenades. There's the default assault rifle, shotgun, rocket 
 launch and frag grenade (no pistol though) . But then there's also several newer types of weapons. 
 An enemy rifle that can fire targeting drones that direct all your shots to one spot lets you shot 
 enemies from behind cover. A sniper rifle with a very nifty bullet time zoom function is a joy 
 to wield, you'll pop head shots with ease and style. Finally there's the Auger, a beefy assult 
 that fires through any solid object. You'll see walls glow briefly in spots and know that you have 
 only seconds to move before you get hit by a massive energy bolt. Also, there's the Air Fuel grenade, 
 it's basically a massive fire bomb that can wreak carnage on the enemy.
  There are several other types of firearms to be found and all up they make for a fun time, the 
 feature of being able to carry everything at once is decidely "old skool" for a very next gen game, 
 but this actually helps deal with the game's more challenging moments as you'll always have something 
 useful to shot with.
  
  Resistance has terrific production values. The PS3 is a powerful and complex machine that developers 
 are still getting used to, but already Insomiac have created a game that looks great and runs super 
 smoothly. Massive battles with gun fire, explosions, vehciles and large enemy forces are presented 
 wonderfully, its a great indicator of what we can expect from the future of Sony's console. The 
 Chimera also all look fantastic and are some of the scariest and most detailed monsters since Doom 
 3.
  The sound is of equal calibre and gun shots, screams, explosions and a rousing musical score help 
 move the game along. That being said, the sound doesn't stand out brilliantly, but its above adequate.
 
  
  Overall Resistance is an excellent launch title and a great addition to a FPS fan's library. Multiplayer 
 includes co-op and some excellent online games. Essentially if you own a PS3 and you can't wait 
 for KillZone 2, buy this, it won't knock Halo 3 over, but Resistance 2 just might... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: potterpipi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is definitely the second if not the first best shooter for the PS3. It's 
 long, mean, and it's asking you to play it.
  
  Gameplay: First person shooter. You go around saving England from an alien invasion. You can use 
 human guns, as well as alien guns, and you get to ride vehicles, both human and alien. The game 
 delivers a fine 12 hours of gameplay, plus an online mode. You might think the online is dead since 
 it's a launch title, well, it isn't. It's full of new members, and veterans alike. Modes range 
 from Co-op, Death Match, Team Death Match, and Objectives mode, all which are fun. The online play 
 also has a ranking system, a buddy system, and a clan system, all which are good. On the gameplay 
 front, Resistance, delivers.
  
  Visuals: Top notch. The graphics are really good, every detail in game. Buildings, background, 
 characters and injuries, all well presented. The machinery looks mighty good.
  
  Sound: Great, good voice acting, good music, good sound effects. Nothing to worry about here.
 
  
  Controls: Pretty much the easiest configuration for an FPS. Move around with the left stick, look 
 around with the right stick, shoot with the right button, throw bombs with the right trigger, double 
 shooting with the left button, etc. It's all real simple.
  
  Overral: Resistance is one of the best shooters out there for the PS3, it's pretty long for a FPS. 
 Resistance delivers in all fronts.
  Go play Resistance now.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: max_well_cook
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Well this game was good. It was first shooter and it had everything, from killing aliens, to blowing 
 up huge machines, and very a good story line. Yes, a good story line lol i really liked the way 
 they described the game and the whole situation involving the aliens. And of course they left it 
 open for another game to follow, which i heard was supposed to be very better. The things i liked 
 about the game were of course the story, and also the sound. It might sound a little weird to say 
 that but all the noises around made you feel like you were actually there!! which i found every 
 impressive. But another thing would be the overall difficulty. I played the game on normal and 
 it was prefect. There were some levels and stages i passes effortlessly then there were others 
 that took me forever to get them figured out. Another point with this game is that there isnt much 
 stealth involved at all, it was mostly running around and killing the aliens before you died (but 
 there was alot of health and ammo around, which really helped!!) . It took just over 20 hours for 
 me to finish the game, which makes it the perfect amount of time to spend on this kind of game. 
 Overall it was just a solid PlayStation 3 game, especially for being one of the first games out, 
 and i would definitely recommend it to others, expecially if they like first shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  The idea of changing the course of history has always been a challenging one when it comes to making 
 a good game. In Resistance, a mysterious alien race has started conquering the world, and it is 
 in the hands of mostly one lone American soldier to stop it. I'm sure this premise isn't anything 
 new to anyone who has played games before... dull and utterly unentertaining.
  
  This game has no character development and is narrated from a British intelligence officer's point 
 of view. The character, Nathan, doesn't say a word and is the only person who is immune to the 
 alien transformation and actually benefit from it. Your teammates, in the rare scenes where they 
 come into play, act as dummies for the enemies to shoot at. If you want anything done, you'll have 
 to do it yourself (which is true for pretty much all FPS) .
  
  The graphics aren't bad, except you'll soon find out that it's very linear and you can't do much 
 with the environment. Ammo is aplenty and you'll rarely have to worry about running out of bullets. 
 You can expect to find your usual assortment of alternate universe weapons.
  
  This game borrows from Halo by having a health bar that will regenerate each section after you're 
 done with the first or second missions. I always preferred a set meter, and that the best health 
 aid system I can think of would be the health dispensers from HL, you can get the right amount 
 every time. There are also missions where you have to drive around in a jeep.
  
  The best part about this game probably has to be the multiplayer, because the single player campaign 
 was a miserable fail and you can forget about replay value there. I thought that this exclusive 
 game to the PS3 would be bar-setting, and I was wrong. The game overall felt cheesy, extremely 
 linear and rigid - I wasn't impressed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBCstillmatic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  I am also an Xbox 360 owner so I have played my fair share of First Person Shooters and really 
 good ones too. The thing about Resistance is that it offers nothing new or redefining. As a game 
 it does everything it set to do, does it very well and looks good doing it. It is exactly the game 
 the PS3 needed to break from the 360's Shadow and show that it can also provide some love in the 
 FPS category as well. It even managed to hold up well by today's standards with shooters like Call 
 of Duty 4 and Halo 3 despite how much longer its been released. The story is very compelling and 
 the replay value is high. The online is a blast although a bit hectic with 40 people, but hell 
 of fun and lots of mayhem. This is also another title that should be an instant classical series 
 for the Playstation Brand. What the best part is, is that this is the first attempt and it should 
 only get better with every sequel. This series is what Sony needs in a market dominated by their 
 competition and I for one cannot wait to see what the sequel holds in store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b3yondstupidity
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man has a great story mode, which you can play easy, hard etc. It is a shooter 
 game of course, you are humans who face the Chimera ( Aliens in other words ) and then the story 
 goes on from there. The online of it is just great even though there are a few laggers around it 
 is still great. You can make your own custom game with Snipers and Gernades and one hit kills etc. 
 You can play a "custom game" which doesn't effect your Resistance Fall Of Man rating or you can 
 play a Ranked game which does effect it. In online you can make your own Clan or join another Clan 
 and have wars with each other. The sound fits in with the game perfectly, the weapons are great 
 and so is the graphics. GREAT GAMEPLAY defintly. I rate Resistance 9.0/10.
  I hope this review makes up your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gurflob
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is made by the creators of Ratchet and Clank, Insomniac. All of the joy of shooting 
 stuff is dragged into this action packed first person shooter
  This game is one of my favorite games ever for 5 reasons:
  
  GRAPHICS: 9/10 The graphics in 
 this game are REALLY good but not amazing. The characters are super smooth and beautifully modeled 
 but some of the environments are a bit polygonal. The textures on the environments make up for 
 that. You see the little divots and scratches in the metal.
  
  SOUND: 9/10 The sound effects in the game are amazing and super realistic you know when a guy is 
 shooting from behind due to surround sound, and the bullets make different noises for the different 
 surfaces that they hit. BUT there isn't always super exciting music playing. Usually the music 
 is quiet or not there. Sometimes this is useful to hear when and where people are shooting at you 
 from. It does bring up the suspense though.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 11/10 This game is the most fun game ever created for the PS3. I bought the PS3 just 
 so i could have games like this. This is NOT your average shooter. It has amazing weapons that 
 come in handy all of the time. Theres a gun where you can shoot a tag onto someone, hide behind 
 a corner and shoot out from behind it while your bullets curve around and hit the tag, theres a 
 gun that shoots through walls. Theres all of the interesting weapons that you'd want and all of 
 the human weapons too.
  
  REPLAY: 9.5/10 The way that this game is set up is you can complete the campain then once a level 
 is beaten you can go back to it anytime via the level select menu. This is handy especially for 
 unlocking intelligence and achieving Skill Points.
  
  MULTIPLAYER OFFLINE: 10/10 You can play a coop 2 player campaign separate from your campaign and 
 still find intel and all of that too. You can also challenge up to 3 of your friends to a battle 
 or a team challenge with about 20 maps to choose from with different game modes like capture the 
 flag and Meltdown (control nodes and take over the enemy base) .
  
  MULTIPLAYER ONLINE: 10/10 to play online you can start right away with no wait at all because it 
 automatically finds a starting game and joins you into it. Or if you want to choose from the different 
 games people are setting up, you can do that too. Online you can do a free for all, team deathmatch, 
 or a team objective.
  
  If you are trying decide whether or not to get this game, i say GET IT!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: menmerga
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  well this game is very very good.! one of the best shooters for the ps3, i think this is a must 
 have, and i also think that everybody that owns a ps3 have this game, its probable the best selling 
 game of the ps3.
  
  well, this is a very good shooter, the campaign has a good story they tell you the strory as it 
 actually happened thats very good, and the online multiplayer is one of the best i have played, 
 you can fight against a lot of people online, in 4 different ways: the classics Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch and Capture the Flag and also there are other two modes: fusion and nodes (personal fav) 
 that are also very fun to play
  
  there is also a rank system which adds some fun, and gives you something to shoot for cause you 
 advance in your rank you will unlock new costumes.
  
  the only thing missing in this game is the splitscreen, it seems that the ps3 games are forgetting 
 about that and i think all good FPS must have this
  
  overall its great game, if you dont have it, you should get it
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cipherace2008
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 12, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man was my first game for the PS3 and was worth getting. The game takes place 
 in Great Britain in the year July 11-14, 1951, when WW2 never happened. The story starts by the 
 narrator of the game describing these wierd creatures called the Chimera which started to spread 
 from Russia and invades all of Eurasia (Europe and Asia) . You are an American soldier named Nathan 
 Hale who flies to the United Kingdom and help the British Forces to survive and beat the Chimera. 
 The storyline is really good and it's not short even though the narrator doesn't describe how the 
 Chimera were exactly born or if even they came from another planet. But Resistance 2 United We 
 Fall which is scheduled to come out around Nov. 2008 exclusivly on PS3 will explain how it all 
 started. The online gameplay is great, they have three diffrent types of battles. The first one 
 is Free For All, second is Team Deathmatch, and last is Capture The Flag. My recommendation about 
 this game is to GET IT and get ready for the sequal!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Some_One_Plays
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  Plot
  
  The Chimera threat began in Russia, the origin of the virus is unknown; in 1930s biological experiments 
 reports began leaking from Russia then villages and cities being destroyed. The Chimera was held 
 in Russia for over a decade and in 1949 they (Chimera) launched an attack that over whelmed Europe 
 within weeks. Oct. 1950 the Chimera buried under the channel and in 3 months time the war was lost, 
 the fall of man. In July 11, 1951 the Americans launched an attack on the eastern coast of England 
 with a second wave of men. One soldier who is immune to the virus or it just mutated in his body 
 is unknown, with the game starting in July 11, 1951  06:13GMT to July 14  12:08 GMT the day that 
 Nathan Hale (you) was last seen. 
  
  The whole entire story is told in third person by Parker, that I like, I just don't like how little 
 the main character talks during cut scenes. Besides all that the story will suck you in so much 
 that you don't want to put down the controller and give it a rest. This was a launch title for 
 the PlayStation 3 and I still can't give this game a rest.
  
  Campaign
  
  The campaign is very lengthy with many interesting level designs spanning to 10 different locations 
 within England. The levels don't make you feel cluster phobic with as much units good and bad running 
 around the screen with no slowdowns. As you progress through the levels you can collect documents 
 about locations, weapons, chimera, vehicles, or intelligence to further explain things. For example 
 you can find lost journals to help you understand what happened or why soldiers ended up there. 
 There's also an extra section that lets you get skill points for rewards. This works by doing certain 
 things in the game like achievements to award extra stuff within the game. There's one skill you 
 can get by killing 5 enemies with the Bullseye in 30 seconds that earns you 2 points. When you 
 have enough you unlock things like concept art to look at later. This alone will give you a reason 
 to go back into the campaign for more.
  
  The enemies in the game are very intelligent and will force you to every once in a while to slow 
 down to look for cover. The levels do have some destructible objects so hiding anywhere isn't going 
 to help you very much if the enemy knows your location. There are many different types of enemies 
 to kill but you'll mostly see the more human type enemies a lot which isn't a bad thing. Looking 
 at the game there's so much going on that you really do feel like you're part of this war that 
 was supposed to be World War II. 
  
  There are vehicles in the game that you get to control from time to time but the emphasis isn't 
 so much on vehicles. They control good but it's nowhere near how good the on foot battles are when 
 comparing the two. 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Off-line
  
  Campaign
  
  You can do the campaign with a friend off-line but there isn't any online co-operative play at 
 all. I didn't really touch this part of multiplayer because I don't use off-line co-operative play 
 anymore and stick to online only.
  
  Battles 
  
  You can set up an off-line match that holds up to four players with different options to tamper 
 with like game options, map options, weapon options, and game mode options. This will allow you 
 to tweak the radar, points, level's size, weapons etc. There are 11 maps that come with the game 
 that can vary in size depending on the amount of people playing. That leads me to the online component 
 of this game.
  
  Online
  
  You can go online to servers that can hold up to 40 player matches with no lag no matter how hectic 
 the servers can get. There are six options you can do in the online component ranked games, custom 
 games, create party, community, options, and purchase. Ranked games allow you to enter into game 
 with people at a similar skill level, custom games are the servers that people made, and create 
 a party is your server. In the community section there are three options character sheet, clan, 
 and friends. The character sheet keeps track of every little thing you do and also has a medal 
 page. The medal page has 28 medals in total but there's more than just medals. There're pages tell 
 you what you're best at and least best at, what section of the world in play in, your accuracy 
 with each gun / kills, that stats are just endless. The clan options should be straight forward 
 but what is most amazing is that you can access your friends through the XMB (Cross Media Bar) . 
 You can send messages, read them, see met players, block players just anything you can do with 
 your friends sections on the XMB.
  
  The options let you tweak options of course but you can also change how your character looks like 
 when playing online. The purchase section lets you have access to the PlayStation Store through 
 the game which is pretty cool.
  
  Online Battles
  
  There are six different modes you can play deathmatch, team deathmatch, meltdown, breach, capture 
 the flag, and conversion. They're pretty much self explanatory but for meltdown, breach, and conversion. 
 Meltdown is a team based game where you have to take control of your enemy's coolant nodes to cause 
 the team's reactor to overheat. Breach is very similar to Meltdown but the more nodes you control 
 the easier it is to destroy their reactor. Conversion is similar to deathmatch but it's more like 
 elimination and the last person standing wins.
  
  Game Play
  
  The game-play somewhat changes from the single player to multiplayer because of what race you are, 
 to what gun you choose. In single player a gun called L23 Fareye a human made weapon in single 
 player the alternative fire is focusing concentration (slowing down time) to hit your enemies. 
 In multiplayer since you can't slow down time seen in single player it becomes a one hit kill. 
 Bullseye is a Chimera made weapon that has a rapid fire of balls of light and its alternative fire 
 is a Homing Tag. This Homing Tag allows your primary firing to head toward whatever you tag. If 
 you're skillful enough you can actually tag certain objects then keep some bullets circling the 
 tag than place another tag on your enemy redirecting the bullets. Another great weapon that will 
 change game-play is the Auger that fires through any object and comes out the other end stronger. 
 The more the Auger's bullet passes through objects the stronger it will be. Its alternative fire 
 is a Force Barrier that allows only Auger bullets to pass through and if you enemy goes through 
 it they lose damage. After beating the game you'll get a gun called the Reaper that lets you dual 
 wield two weapons. This gun doesn't have an alternative fire and the R1 / L1 buttons are to control 
 which gun you start firing. The twist with this gun it allows you to aim at two enemies simultaneously. 
 This is done by pressing and holding R1 / L1 then you move the targeting radical to another enemy 
 pressing and holding the other button (R1/L1) . This works pretty well with the game and is best 
 used in close quarters. 
  
  The grenades also are very creative with a Hedgehog grenade Chimera made weapon that hovers above 
 the spot that it lands. Once in the air two seconds later it deploys spikes in all directions that 
 can actually pin enemies against walls. Another great grenade is the Air-Fuel grenade (human made) 
 that releases a cloudy flammable vapour that eventually catches fire to burn enemies nearby. This 
 just adds to the fast paced action that this game delivers throughout that leads me to races.
 
  
  In Resistance: Fall of Man there are two races you can choose from in multiplayer only and it's 
 human and Chimera. The humans can run for as long as they want but if they take any damage than 
 they'll have to stop running to regenerate. They also start off with a grenade, can kneel, have 
 advanced radars, and the M5A2 Carbine a human made weapon. With the Chimera they're a little larger 
 and can't kneel like the humans can. They are able to see through walls and take more damage if 
 in "Rage Mode". The catch with the Rage Mode is that if you stay in Rage too long you'll die and 
 when you turn it off you'll make a grunt like sound. They don't start off with any grenades but 
 their weapon is the Bullseye. This might not sound as much but it really does change how you play 
 the game. Plus there are destructible elements that also add to the game-play in multiplayer and 
 single player.
  
  SIXAXIS is implemented into the game-play when you face off with Menial that is bred to be a tool 
 for basic labour in the campaign. These enemies are easy to take out but if they sneak up on you 
 to inflict pain; you just shake the SIXAXIS controller left to right repeatedly. This in turn will 
 shake off the Menial and Nathan will melee them down. You can just use the melee button if you 
 want but that can take longer than the SIXAXIS.
  
  Graphics 
  
  The graphics for this game is amazing especially for a launch title and by far the best launch 
 game that this next generation delivered. The game has a very distinctive look about itself plus 
 since it's back in time things do fit that setting. They have such detail to things like blades 
 of grass, to tables, and glass that shatters, with such mass to levels it's just a fun experience. 
 All I have to say is if you're worried about graphics they got this down right.
  
  Audio
  
  The audio in the game is great with good voice-overs, to the sounds of battle, or to exploding 
 objects. With so much going on you always can hear your commander or whoever is speaking to you 
 telling you what to do. With the narrative being told in third person the voices should be spot 
 on and gives it a more suspenseful feel that gets you hooked. The narrative makes you keep wondering 
 what on earth happened to this guy Nathan Hale does he die, turn into a Chimera, or go on a killing 
 spree on humans and Chimera? To put on top of all the good voice-overs they all have accents that 
 give it that good narrative touch and give the game a personality other then American. 
  
  Conclusion
  
  The game has a very distinctive look that sets apart from most, and the game-play 
 is more so around the player's abilities to what gun they equip. If you're into fast paced multiplayer 
 and good lengthy campaigns this game is definitely for you.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kellymae
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 8, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of Man is set in some parallel earth where something much more ominous than even 
 WWII was afoot. Instead of Nazi's rolling over Europe, it is some Science experiment gone wrong. 
 A race called the Chimera have taken Asia, Europe and have now set up shop in the UK. The remainder 
 of earth is only a matter of time. Chimera, just for a little bit of trivia is defined medically 
 as one entity with two distinct sets of DNA. The word also translates into she-goat so, go figure.
 
  
  You are Nathan Hale, an American soldier is sent in to help with tactical reinforcement . Hale 
 seems to have a keen, almost uncanny understanding of the enemy. Very quickly you are blasting 
 your way through the rubble that was England, ripping your way through Chimera, at times bringing 
 the fight directly to them, deep in there own territory, waging war to try and turn this losing 
 battle around.
  
  The story of Hale is told by a British officer who had dealings with Hale. Her Narration is done 
 in such a way that you understand the brevity of the situation.
  
  The game is set up well with Black and White still images and very nicely worked cut scenes between 
 its stages. Of course the cut scenes are used as a bridge into the next battle. Graphics leave 
 a lot to be desired. For a next gen game, the graphics are very PS2 and not in a god of war kind 
 of way. The plot leaves a little to be desired, as your character Hale never becomes much more 
 than 2 dimensional. He rarely speaks and you find out next to nothing about him. The Chimera are 
 ugly and alien like and for some reason I don't understand, they become the more fleshed out characters.
 
  
  Weaponry and AI make Resistance shine. You can carry an impressive array of powerful automatics 
 and energy weapons, some of which have alternate-firing modes. Default weaponry is a rifle with 
 a 50-round clip and a mounted grenade launcher. The Chimeran equivalent is the bullseye, a rifle 
 with an ability to shoot a homing beacons and subsequently all your shots home in on the beacon. 
 So you can hit a chimera with the beacon and then hide behind something and shoot in whatever direction 
 you want, the shots will find the targets. There is also the standard shotgun, rocket launcher 
 and sniper rifle. And a thing called the auger. This is a weapon that when fired will go through 
 solid objects to find its target. It can also fire an energy shield to hide behind. I liked to 
 combo the auger and the bullseye. It worked very well.
  There are also vehicles to drive, which I count in weaponry because of course they have devastating 
 mounted turrets. 
  
  Game saves are auto and checkpoint. Checkpoints being few and far between at times. The controls 
 for Resistance are tight as they should be. It is the standard shooter set up, no big surprises. 
 Unlike a lot of shooters, Resistance lets you pick up and carry each new weapon you find. Personally, 
 I liked this. I know it isn't as realistic, but really, we all know we are not really killing aliens 
 so what difference does it make. I honestly don't know how many times I have just about thrown 
 a controller because I could not grab that extra gun. Gameplay itself is great, hard enough to 
 keep you entertained but not difficult to the point where you just say the hell with it, lets play 
 something else. 
  
  The OMG That was Amazing: The Weapons. They are awesome and there are all kinds of ways to use 
 them in combos if you are quick.
  
  The good: Nice tight controls and enemies you cannot help but despise. The AI is excellent. New 
 weapons are unlocked after you complete the game once. 
  
  The Meh, whatever: Glitchy in spots and pretty mediocre graphics for a next gen console. Checkpoints 
 are far between, which in some instances means replaying the same battle sequence over and over 
 again. 
  
  The downright annoying: The storyline, or lack thereof. You get just enough to continue to play, 
 but it is not in any way memorable. You don't really feel anything for the characters because of 
 it. 
  
  Conclusions: All in all a very decent shooter. As my first game on the PS3, it left me wanting 
 a little more. With a little more work this game could have been brilliant. Still in all, very 
 solid, very fun and a decent 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXHackettXx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 11:28 am PT
Review:  Resistance is exactly what the PS3 needed in a launch title. It shows off what the PS3 can do visually, 
 how the online has improved from the PS2, and that this is a new Sony franchise that you can look 
 forward too. Resistance still has the best glass I've ever seen in a game. The stories great and 
 the Chimera our a really cool enemy. The AI is fairly smart as they work together, flank, and rush 
 you, which make these battle a lot more intense. The controls are great and really work for a PS3 
 FPS. The options to customize your controls the way you want make it even better. There's nothing 
 sweeter then the first time you had to shake off a Chimera by shaking your controller.
  
  The story is fairly long with almost no backtracking and coop is a lot of fun, it's just too bad 
 it's not online coop. The vehicle parts really mix things up and keep you from getting bored. They 
 took a lot of ideas from other great FPS games, and really did it right. It did leave me feeling 
 that it was a little unoriginal, but then the weapons make Resistance feel unique. Each weapon 
 has an alternate fire like the ability to shoot through wall or to tag an enemy so your bullets 
 will go around cover to get him. This is a lot of fun online when you get these things to work.
 
  
  I found the game a little repetitive at times and the main character Hale hard to care about. He 
 wasn't a bigger talker and the story didn't develop him very well. I also didn't like how the narrator 
 was saying everything like it already happened, which took away any doubt that your character could 
 do this. As fun as the multiplayer was (40 player!) when it came out, now there's so many FPS with 
 better multiplayer, like COD4, The Orange Box, and Halo 3. This is still one of the best FPS on 
 the PS3 and every PS3 owner should check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of man developed by exiting folks from Insomniac is a very enjoyable shooter.
 
  The game is set in 1951 era and the story follows Nathan Hale, an American soldier who gets infected 
 by Chimera virus early in the game.
  
  Chimera, an alien race infects and takes over all of Europe, Asia and the rest of the Earth in 
 matter of months. World War II never happen, but alien invasion did.
  The last standing ground of Britain was also concurred in matter of days and few remaining soldiers 
 are trying to fight back for their survival.
  
  Chimeras unleash a unstoppable force of insects on the city which multiplies in millions and anything 
 it touches and infects by entering your body instantly dies.
  After a group of soldiers stumble upon such fierce force only one man suddenly woke up. No one 
 can explain how Nathan survived, but his fellow man can see a strange resemblance of glow in his 
 eyes. Nathan gains abilites that will aid him and his fellow man will appreciate quite a bit. 
 
  
  The story goes from there.
  
  As you can see, unlike majority of FPS, Resistance does follow a good written story, while not 
 ground breaking, it moves the game along in the nice pace.
  And it's not a short gamer either, average about 10-12 hours the game definitely feels much longer. 
 
  After you finish the game, you can play it again and this time you will gain access to new weapons 
 as you go along, and those weapons are great to play with. It definitely rewards you if you wish 
 to re-play the campaign. 
  The arsenal of gear is nothing less then spectacular, Insomniac definitely didn't hold back and 
 we get some very unique and powerful weapons to play with.
  One gun I definitely found to be very useful is the Auger Rifle. The primary attack can go through 
 any surface and the alternative mode will fire up a protective barrier in front of you for a short 
 duration which will stop any fire coming at you except for enemies own Auger shots.
  
  This becomes very, very useful in strategic play and survival in later missions.
  
  Most of 
 the time you will find yourself alone dealing with horde of Chimera which by the way have quite 
 a few looks to them. From annoying a hordish leapers to large and overgrown giants that can wipe 
 out your squad on their own. 
  Time to time you will fight along side your team though they are not really very helpful they do 
 cause good enemy distraction and on close courters they will punch some much needed firepower. 
 
  
  You have a chance to drive Tanks, Jeeps and even enemy Stalkers! All powerful tools to use and 
 fun to play with.
  
  This is a launch PS3 title and I have to say that the game looks beautiful. There are many locations 
 that will please an eye, textures are sharp, lighting is used well and your enemies all look detailed 
 even when you zoom in and take a close look. 
  All the guns sound good and Chimera will usually give out growls when near by. There were a few 
 moments in the game in dark tunnels that actually give you some scare as the music dies out and 
 you can only hear your footsteps.
  
  Lots of work went into Resistance and it shows. The shooter doesn't bring much innovation to the 
 genre, but it does put together what makes a first person shooter and blends those bonds together 
 for great ride.
  
  The multiplayer is hectic and and fast, you have standard team death match free for all, or holding 
 down the bases to accumulate points modes.
  
  You can play from 8-40 players and it's quite enjoyable to jump into 20/20 match-up and nuke it 
 out.
  
  All put together, it's a quality game that shouldn't be missed by any FPS shooter fan or PS3 owner.
 
  Highly recommended. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  I got Resistance: Fall of Man quite a while back now, and I can't stop playing it!
  
  It's got quite a long, epic Single Player, with enemy's popping up EVERYWHERE! They come at you 
 from behind, infront, above, anywhere! You name it!
  And take a look at the Gamespot Game Guide for it. You'll see, choosing the Levels, that many of 
 them are set in a place (ie Manhatten, I think, can't remember though) .
  
  Now, the Graphics. Their not as serious and real as some of the other games you find lately (ie 
 Call of Duty 4, The Club, R&C: TOD) because their SORT OF cartoony, but, in a good way! They all 
 look very interesting and they all have cool voices! Lol.
  
  Now, onto the Online Gameplay.
  Resistance: Fall of Man has Free for All and Death Match and 
 it's all very exciting and adventurous. It's got all the different maps, some of which are HUGE, 
 and some, pretty small! But they all have super features in each one, which makes it a worth-while 
 game to play.
  
  Graphics: 8.9/10
  Gameplay: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.1/10
  
  So, yup. If you have enough for a game, and you don't have a clue on which to get, GET THIS IF 
 YOU DON'T ALLREADY HAVE IT!!
  
  ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prodiqy32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:53 am PT
Review:  this was supposed to be the big launch game for the playstation 3. and it is a very good game. 
 the problem is, it should of been great. it is fun. it could of been alot more. maybe next time.
 
  the controls are perfect. no conplaints there.
  being an insomniac made gamee you know the weopons are the highlight of the game. the variety ans 
 feel of each one is easily the games biggest stron point. shooting through walls, bullets that 
 follow enemies, spike grenades.... good stuff.
  the single player is long and varied. no complaints there. actually i hate the health system. but 
 it doesnt kill the experience. still.... the enemies in RFOM are smart, and they will tear you apart 
 while your fumbling around looking for health packs.
  the multiplayer is awesome. 40 players online may seem like alot but the maps are big. the maps 
 are all different from each other but none seem to stand out as great but it is solid, just by 
 the book.
  the story would of been nice and immersive but the way its told by cutscenes and narrated takes 
 from it. it seems tacked on which is ashame. the story is good by FPS standards. time constraints 
 to make the launch is probably the blame for this.
  graphics are really a mixed bag to. the greys and the browns are getting old. the levels are large 
 and wide-open and it has a stable frame-rate but it all looks so brab. the level of detail is amazing 
 but it was like playing call of duty 2 with aliens and less color. and all the bump mapping and 
 cleaness doesnt help the games color pallet. keep in mind this is a personal taste for me. most 
 people will look at it in amazement.
  bottom line is this. the game is good. how good depends on what you were expecting. its a solid 
 shooter with a good story and is solid online. it just lacks that something that would make it 
 great. like color. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 7:59 pm PT
Review:  Its not a bad game but not the best. If you can get past the cheesy voice overs for one ,The SGT 
 in the begining sounds like a horrible version of John Wayne but from Alaska. It has some good 
 things to offer though, the weapons are not to bad but switching them can be a pain. There are 
 some vehicles in the game which are not too bad. The enemy AI is pretty good. They will fire and 
 attack you from far away, and there are many different types of alien monsters that will get you 
 from all angles. The British voice overs are bad as well. There are too many cut scenes during 
 gameplay which you'ld think would be load times but after they start there is an aditional load 
 times between stages. The good thing is the game is kind of long so you will get your money worth 
 out of it as long as you don't pay more than $18.00 for it. The sound is ok, there are some annoying 
 beeping going on when you pass certain dead bodies and I could not figure what it is. The maps 
 are pretty big and it does have a nice look to it but you have seen all of this before. It does 
 not feel like a PS3 title but maybe an old x-box title. Definitely rent it first. If you like to 
 shoot aliens in Russia during the 50 's the game is for you but WW2 shooters are a bit out of hand. 
 Soon there will be WW2 shooters but with Vampires. The genre has been played out way too much, 
 let's please move on to something else. Lets try Granada, or Tanzania, Liberia, Ghana, Siera Lione 
 during the mid 90's. Please stop using John Wayne commanders using phrases likeWere gonna leave 
 nothing but scrap and a bad stench here". Just for that I'm reducing my score to a 6.5 from 7. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jsnett
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  Resistance- the main title release for ps3 is still one of the elite games on the platform. Set 
 in past war scenairo of wwII something has wiped out all of Russia and most of Europe with Britain 
 the last to fall and getting weaker enter the USA to tag team against this alien life form that 
 is harvesting the Earth. The games graphics and sound effects are very nice to the eyes and ears 
 and the gameplay is very smooth. Very seemless as the storyline unfolds and you become more aggressive 
 in game play as the weapons and the aliens get more fierce. On-line game play is the way to go 
 these days and in resistance fall of man... it doesnt let you down you can play against people 
 from all over in death matches and other arenas. This game originally priced $59.99 and still is 
 but can be found on sale eaily for 29.99 - 39.99 i strongly suggest that if you dont have this 
 game to do so soon because resistance fall of man 2 is on its way and will surely step up the level 
 of gaming in the ps3 future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMrFraz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 10:58 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great alternate first-person shooter. Usually, I'm not a fan of the 
 genre at all. Honestly, prior to this, Metroid Prime is the only other shooter I have finished 
 throughout. That fact in itself should foreshadow the secret greatness of this game.
  
  Resistance takes place in an alternate mid-20th century Europe. I their attempts to create the 
 ultimate soldier, the Russians have created an entirely new race, dubbed the "Chimera". Very quickly, 
 these monsters have almost completely conquered the Soviet Union and Europe, and this is wear the 
 game begins.
  
  You are Nathan Hale, an American soldier called over to Europe to help fight in the dying resistance 
 against the Chimera. The visuals aren't Call of Duty 4, but are outstanding for a console launch 
 title, especially for one created for a console so technical to create for. While the graphics 
 are great, they seem to be recycled and dull after being diagnosed with them throughout the game. 
 Most of the missions take place in empty streets or abandoned buildings and the environments all 
 look very similar, all doused in a depressing gray tone. This fits the mood of the game well, but, 
 needless to say, does appear boring after awhile. As you advance through the game, you'll encounter 
 the more "futuristic" dwellings of the Chimera, but the variation doesn't occur as often as you'd 
 like.
  
  As far as the actual gameplay is concerned, this is where the game shines. I've said I don't enjoy 
 shooters very often, but that doesn't mean I haven't taken a run through many of them. Honestly, 
 the mechanics of Resistance are my favorite to date. The shooting feels very realistic. In most 
 games, it seems ridiculous that only the player's character can take a multiple hits and still 
 pull through while AI allies are pounded. I don't want to give much of the story away, but early 
 on in the game you'll gain sort of a "superhuman" quality. I really liked this addition. You never 
 second-guessed incredibly long falls or surviving many bullet wounds. Another thing: this game 
 isn't Super Ghouls N Ghosts, but it is very difficult for a FPS. Even on the easiest difficulty, 
 you won't be able to blindly charge into a group of enemies and survive, especially early in the 
 game when healing yourself isn't possible. In fact, I found the first few missions to be some of 
 the toughest in the game. This might not have been the best plan of action, as I could see it turning 
 off undetermined players, but it gives the player pride when finishing missions. It doesn't feel 
 like you just blew through them without much effort. The enemies are insane, also, with strong 
 AI. They're ridiculously powerful, but still cover when in danger. The variety of monsters throughout 
 is incredible in itself.
  
  At first, weapons in the game feel generic, but become incredible. About half of the weapons available 
 are Chimeran in nature, and are nothing like traditional human weapons and allow for many possibilities 
 of attack. It feels like a little much, but you'll find yourself learning which ones work best 
 in each situation. 
  
  The idea behind the storyline is amazing, but it still feels like it wasn't developed enough. What 
 is known about Hale initially is the same as the knowledge after watching the final scenes. This 
 is really too bad, as you'll find out that something does make him unique and it's never really 
 built upon. Also, knowledge of the origins or desires of the Chimera isn't really developed at 
 all. Once, the narrator stated during an artistic cutscene that the information learned of the 
 Chimera is one of the most important facts the resistance forces ever discovered. After hearing 
 this, I realized that I didn't even know what the information was. It's almost like all the characters 
 know tons of information about the Chimera, but they never let you in on it. The game ends not 
 allowing for a sequel, but requiring one. An interesting take, but it leaves Resistance 2 with 
 a lot of expectations.
  
  To finish this off, Resistance is scary. Seriously. At times, it feels borderline survival-horror. 
 You're usually left alone against hordes of horrifying creatures. The Menials are the weakest characters 
 in the game, slow and without weapons, yet I found myself more terrified of encountering them than 
 anything else. The way the developers created them, stalking toward you at sight, arms outreached, 
 is pure genius. Resident Evil 4 didn't even scare me this much. To create horror like that cannot 
 without recognition, and I salute everyone behind that.
  
  I haven't spent enough time with the online play to adequately review that, so I'm not taking that 
 into account.
  
  
  In the end, this is really a solid game. The somewhat repetitive graphics and missions are saved 
 by the outstanding gameplay and terrifying mood. You'll find yourself wanting to finish this game. 
 Maybe not completely out of enjoyment, but to push the story further. It isn't perfection, but 
 it is greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drums4me15
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is such a good FPS, although it is highly underrated. The multiplayer mode 
 is awesome (maxime 40 people!!!) The campain provides an interesting alternate for World War II. 
 Also, the rating system for online play is very cool and easy to follow. The campain has easy, 
 mediun, hard, and superhuman modes so everyone will have the right difficultity for themselves. 
 However, there are some flaws. The lack of a co-op multiplayer is kinda disappointing. Also, the 
 graphics suck, although I can forgive that because of the hurry to release it alongside the PS3 
 release. However, I cannot forgive the lack of voices in the campain (except from that women commander) . 
 I hope that these problems can be sorted with for the sequal in 2008. Other than that, this game 
 is fun, enjoyable, and offers a cool online mode. Definatly my favorite shooter for PS3 besides 
 CoD4. Definatly a great buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clominon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 2:17 am PT
Review:  Holy crap aliens! Haven't seen that before. But no seriously Resistance was a cool game. I really 
 liked it. It was my first game on ps3. Well Resistance and Motorstrom. Not that there was any other 
 good games on the ps3 at that time. So the game! World War 1 or 2 don't remember anymore. Aliens 
 come and try to turn you into mindless zombies and like make you one of them. Holy crap Insomniac 
 where did you get that idea!? I mean really! Come on! Why are the aliens always the bad guys! Well 
 except in E. T. but I hated that little guy so he doesn't count. I mean why can't we be the Aliens 
 for once? I so wan to be the alien. Like go to another planet and try and conquer their world and 
 you know start anal probing them all! You can call it "Planet Conqueror: the probe master". Now 
 that's a game I would gladly pay for. Anyways the game with its original concept was awesome to 
 play. I did enjoy it. 
  So you are a soldier and not just a soldier! You are an American soldier! What ells. Not that I 
 hate America. Come on people I love you guys. I was like visiting you guys for 2 whole week's 
 couple months ago. But it's getting annoying. Let someone ells play the hero for ones. I know I 
 know. You guys are our saviours and stuff! So keep on the good job. Anyways!! The game. So you 
 a soldier that gets infected with the alien bug/The Mummy little beetles creatures. And like instead 
 of turning into them you become some sort of hybrid one man army dude. While you go along and kicking 
 every aliens grey behind you find new weapons all over the place. And as we all know Insomniac 
 from their awesome work on Ratchet & Clank.. We know how cool and weird the weapons can be. So 
 I did like that part. I wished there was more weapons but still Resistance: Fall of Man! What 
 ells can I say? The name is so cool sounding. What I didn't get though, was the part about the 
 aliens. Where did they come from? Why did they come to earth? And how long have they been here? 
 Cause apparently they where here for a very long time. And why attack now? Oh! How do the aliens 
 really look like?! Because what we fight in the game are the mutated humans. We never see the real 
 E. T.'s. OR! Those bugs/The Mummy little beetles looking things where the alien dudes by George 
 I've got it! But how can those little things be the master minds behind world domination? Anyways 
 there is a sequel coming out 'Resistance: Rice of Man" right? So I guess the story continues. 
 Well we all hope it does. 
  
  To help you decide whether you wan to buy the game or not! 
  The game has great graphics, fun 
 weapons, weird looking aliens, cool action, not so original story (yet) . AND you can kick some 
 online alien ass! What ells you wan? Don't be gready!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex_b52
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best game on the ps3! i think any ps3 owner should get it,
  cuz this wil mantain u entertained for a LONG time, the best thing about this game is the campaign 
 duration its like 15 HOURS!!!. The online play is the best!!!! supports 40 players, a lot of cool 
 guns, large maps and very unique moments in its online and offline modes! maintains some R&C features, 
 VERY COOL story, great characters Solid narration, Keeps Suspense in some moments, very cool level 
 desing, and not to mention GREAT VEHICLES, u can dreive tanks, jeeps and....."other things", cool 
 WWII idea that fits the game properly, Nathan Hale is KICK*BEEP*, 1 Of the coolest things in the 
 game ar the guns , The producers are the same 1's from R&C, You can expect much, the only little 
 detail in this game is the A. I,
  The chimeras are smart but the soldiers that help you are too dumb. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid_ranqe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This game was the best Modern First-Person Shooter Ive ever played I mean why not? 
  
  Resistance is pretty much about alien things called the chimera trying to take over the world, 
 this game has no difficult puzzles or anything in it it's just plain shooting and destroying.
 
  
  Also you will find yourself fighting allot of different species of chimera alongside with the english 
 army and you get to explore different Chimerain towers and building and you even get to use Chimeran 
 guns and weapons!, thats pretty awesome you can also unlock bonuses and some amazing drawings
 
  
  Resistance is great multilayer online game , there is a multilayer co-op which you can play with 
 2 people and a single player campaign which you can play all by yourself. Resistance online has 
 allot of features and ranks and points you can earn, there is also an offline game when you and 
 3 other mates can take each other on in different maps.
  
  anyways this game is great, I hope this game passes you one day and you may be able to get this...!
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: merrill25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 26, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't sure what to expect when I started this game but I was soon blown out of my seat by the 
 amazing weapons, the large scale battles, the challenging A. I. and the gorgeous graphics.
  
  The game is set in the 1940's. Instead of WW2 happening a virus broke out creating the chimera. 
 These monsters devoured Eurasia and invaded Great Britain. The USA sends troops to help the brits, 
 they didn't know what they were getting into.
  
  The highlight of the game is its weapons. Each gun has two functions creating a variety of possibilities 
 to kill your prey. Killing your prey won't always be easy, the enemy always comes in numbers and 
 uses cover intelligently and charges at you. 
  
  Multiplayer is a blast! When you enter a 40 player battlefield you enter a war zone with fire fights, 
 explosions and death around every corner. The levels are huge ensuring there is room for everyone. 
 
  
  The campaign is amazing! Its long, challenging, you never do the same thing twice and the A. I. 
 always keeps things interesting. The large scale battles are intense, you feel like a soldier in 
 D-Day. The only thing that this game fails at is the characters. You never feel that bond like 
 you have Master Chief. You never truly feel like a bad ass with Nathan Hale because he looks like 
 an average person.
  
  With an intense campaign that has S. A. T smart A. I, weapons and gorgeous graphics along with the 
 epic multiplayer with 40 players makes this a PS3 must have and a must play for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moej88
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is an amazing game. One of the best of the games that came out to the PS3. 
 
  
  The Good: 
  The game takes place back in the 1940's during the world war as if it didn't happen, instead of 
 fighting the usual enemy the game makers brought creatures into the game. This takes a good point 
 for being innovative. 
  
  The graphics in the game are amazing. The environments are realistic, the game and cut scenes are 
 very well done and it does show the power of the PS3.
  
  Game play: The fact that the game contains tons of weapons for use is truly amazing. So many weapons 
 to use that the player will get so creative. The weapons are very well done and one of the most 
 important things that were accomplished with these weapons is the sound of firing those weapons. 
 
  
  Multiplayer: UP TO 40 PEOPLE! Now when you see 40 you might think LAG or anything bad BUT there 
 is no such thing. The accommodation of 40 players was very well done and having 40 people means 
 having BIG MAPS! The multiplayer maps are very well done. Also there is a reason to play multiplayer 
 because the player will be able to level up and unlock some customizations. 
  
  Single Player: Long + Fun + challenging = amazing. The single player in the game is very fun and 
 the A. I in the game is smart and there are tons of enemies which means more use for those weapons. 
 Also there are vehicles! 
  
  The Bad: 
  
  When playing Multiplayer it will take a while to get used to it. You shoot another player with 
 such a big gun it will take a while to take the other player down. The weapons are powerful but 
 it just doesn't make sense for the amount of damage it takes to get a kill. This will get on your 
 nerves.
  
  If you want to learn about the multiplayer modes then you have to read about them and IT IS LONG 
 to read! It would have been better to have Video Tutorials.
  
  Other than that the game was very well done. Amazing and worth buying. If you are a big fan of 
 FPS then this game will make a good addition to your collection.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyyankeesjg25
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man was a excellent shooter for the PS3. It was a great game adding some new 
 elements into a shooter that really made it great! I really enojoyed the plot. WWII, attack by 
 the chimera, teaming up with Europe you, as Sargeant Nathan Hale, must stop the Chimeran attack 
 from overwhelming the earth.
  
  The graphics and overall presentation of the game were really good. Even though I play on a Standard 
 TV I can still appreciate the good graphics. It is clear cut and vibrant. I dont like how your 
 character didnt really say to much. I did like how your character, Nathan Hale, gave off the
 bad guykinda attitude.
  
  The weapons were pretty interesting. They are like most weapons in FPS. I felt that the game really 
 need one dominatiing weapon that could set itself apart.
  
  Overall I thought the game was good, but didnt really set itself apart from many of the great FPS 
 of today. I am however greatly anticipating the sequel! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KraigA
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 23, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man for PlayStation 3 is an amazing game, both offline and on!
  
  The campaign trail is like no other. With it's super-cool visual effects, immense graphics and 
 chilling storyline, it's one game you can actually enjoy offline. Especially on the second play 
 through when you are rewarded with extra never-seen-before weapons and also the chance to challenge 
 the "super-human" difficulty, whereby you unlock cool skins to use online!
  
  Online is even better, with worldwide dedicated servers, lag-free matches are something of standard. 
 Battle out in 40 player maps. Huge levels ranging from on board an American Aircraft carrier, to 
 a forrest with small villages at each side.
  
  My personal favorites - the Melee only games. Without sounding too cocky, I can only discribe myself 
 as Godlike... ;)
  
  Capture the Flag, Sommerset, Melee only + Friendly fire... Watch out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LickMyPorcupine
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  When people left there homes to go to the shops to buy themselves a shiny new ps3 instead of a 
 second house, they had only one game in mind; Resistance Fall of Man. When people thought of ps3's 
 they thought of Resistence Fall of Man, it was as much a part of the launch as the system was itself.
 
  
  The Single-Player campaign nis just the right length and there is a distinguishable differnece 
 between the levels of difficulty so you will never feel that the game is just too hard and it's 
 easy to find what difficulty best suits you. Yet somehow the game always seemed challenging but 
 never me to the point of frustration.
  
  The SIngle-Player mode sees you battling Chimera, a strange creature that is a mutation from a 
 human. Fighting your way through different locations across England in order to rid the country 
 of the infestation and after England, hopefully the world. Throughout the course of the game you 
 come across many different types of Chimera, each with their own strenths and weaknesses. 
  Resistance Fall of Man boasts a wide range of different and very unique weapons. Each gun has a 
 primary fire mode and a secondary fire mode so that whatever the situation it seems there is a 
 gun that fits your needs perfectly. The guns are also very innovative and clever in their designs 
 and functions, e. g. the L-11 Dragon is a flamethrower that is perfect for storming bunkers and 
 other enclosed areas but it's secondary fire mode allows you to set traps for enemys by releaseing 
 a cloud of gas and when the Chimera you can shoot a spark into the gas making nicely roasted Chimera 
 (Yum Yum) .
  At the time of the launch Resistance boasted the power of the ps3 brilliantly. Objects reacted 
 to their surroundings and would move realisticly if they were moved by something. As well as this 
 it also looked amazing and no matter what was happening at any time there was no slowdown in the 
 frame-rate.
  
  Resistance's multiplayer was as phenomenal as its single player. You could play with up to 39 other 
 people on a map and for those of you who ain't so good with the maths; 1+39= a hell of a lot of 
 players! (It actually equals 40) . The levels were massive and each one was unique so you never got 
 too used to certain scenary. The multiplayer also contained all the guns in the single-player mode. 
 
  
  Overall Resistance Fall of Man a truly astonishing game that never fails to be enjoyable no matter 
 how often you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: picklesrocks
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 22, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  This game is terrible, thats all i can put really because there are so many problems with this 
 game because sure it has potential but it doesnt even go near that, with the games graphics framerate 
 issues enemies only changing by size and the weapons reloading issue. first yes the enemies look 
 and sound good but they only differ from size as they only get bigger.
  The guns sound as pathetic as they look and the most annoying thing is how insanely quick they 
 reload the guns like i pressed the reload button and he practically pulled out the clip and slapped 
 it back in again, i mean what the hell no one can reload that fast.
  The whole game just goes downhill constantly as the new guns are rubbish as one of them can put 
 up a shield (its the 20th century for gods sake) which only you can shoot though on your side making 
 it overpowerful on the multiplayer.
  The multiplayer expirience is ok at first but gets boring fast, really really fast making the whole 
 game a complete disaster.
  
  Has potential just doesnt come close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarletlvswayne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  When I first started playing this game, I was really excited about it. The graphics were good, 
 the shooting style was good with pretty awesome weapons. Then after the sixth or seventh chapter, 
 I was like, "Hello, where's the challenge?" It was pretty much just dragging for me for a bit there. 
 Then, when I decided to really put my head in the game and stop trying to just blaze through it, 
 I actually fell in love with it. This was my first shooter game that I have ever played, so maybe 
 that's why I felt that way in the beginning. This game gradually gets harder and harder as you 
 play. But that cool part about it is that the longer and better you get at playing, the better 
 weapons you pick up. There are some pretty cool grenades and other weapons that I really got a 
 kick out of. There are some really cool chapters in this game that I really found exciting that 
 allow you to do more than just shoot at the bad guys. You can drive tanks and blast through enemies! 
 There isn't anything about this game that I really didn't like. Bottom line? The more you play, 
 the better it is~ Scarlett
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: raiden_mgs2
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Resistance was one of the lauch titles for the PS3 in 2006, and a great title it is.
  
  Resistance is all about 'aliens' called chimera. they were humans but have been infected and have 
 been muted into chimera using conversion centres. In just two months the chimera took over all 
 of Europe and have arrived at England. Which is where the game kicks of...
  
  You play as Hale a solider who is trying to defeat the chimera with the rest of humanity. Right 
 at the beginning of the game he gets infected but nothing happens... So this makes you want to 
 play the game through to see how that works out....
  
  Resistance has good graphics for a first person shooter but considering its on a PS3 i cant shake 
 the feeling that they could have been better (even some PS2 shooters look better) . However graphics 
 are still great from the AI teamates and all the different types of chimera and the environment 
 and explosions look cool too.
  
  Sound is great with each gun making a different sound and the growls of the chimera and shouting 
 and footsteps ect. What doesnt impress me however is the storyline and voice acting as Hale never 
 says anything and there is proper cool lenghly cut scenes just a crappy (most of the time) black 
 and white image or map with that woman talking.
  
  Gamplay is the best part of reistance, wherever you are in the game you will always be in an intence 
 shootout with very good AI (which use cover and flank you) . 
  
  Resistance also has brillant online play which when played you can unlock loads of goodies (which 
 i love) including ribbons, medals and even go up ranks and customise what your online character 
 looks like.
  
  Replay value is here as hidden weapons can be found when you play the game through again and you 
 can play through it again anyway to get even more goodies (skill points) .
  
  There is a co op mode which is fun but isnt online which is kinds disappointing.
  
  resistance 
 at times can be quite a scary game (i know i jumped when i was in a tight corrider and chimera 
 jump out right in front of you and respawn behind you!!!)
  
  Overall reistance is a good quality game but it would have scored higher only if the story was 
 more developed, if it had online co op and lastly i just cant shake the feeling more could be improved 
 in this game...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mojo-X
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a good fun shooter for one or two players. It has plenty of play time and plenty 
 of different enemies to kill. This and a good story to follow it will make u keep playing and playing 
 wanting to know what happens next.
  
  The graphics are good not amazing but with all the different things there are to look at this shouldn't 
 be too upsetting. The enemies the Chimera are in my opinion a spectacular design with plenty of 
 variations. The guns are great, plentiful and painful each with its own advantage and disadvantage 
 while they all look great. The surroundings look great too; its not really destructible but it 
 is great to go through.
  
  The controls are brilliant and very easy to pickup. Even if your in the middle of a fight you will 
 be able to change your gun without any problem even if you need to scroll through them cause the 
 game will stop while u change but this is only on one player for co-op you need to be quick switching 
 your weapon
  
  The game its self is fine there are no glitches that will stop u getting through a level and everything 
 is doable. The story told of the journey of Sergeant Hale is a good one that helps you stay in 
 the game. The fighting in the game is fine even when your outnumbered to an unfair number because 
 you will still have backup from your army buddies unlike some games were they wouldn't help at 
 all.
  
  All together I recommend resistance to be a gamed played and finished by as many people as possible 
 and whoever does will not regret it.
  
  PLAY ON!!!! XD
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloud1000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man is probably one of the best PS3 games out and has a popular following online.
 
  
  The story is in an alternate universe that you can appreciate so much when it uses real locations 
 around the UK. The gameplay is tight and easy to grasp. Graphics are very good and really give 
 you an unforgettable experience. The sequel will be one of the most anticipated PS3 to date.
  The only faults are that the multiplayer modes are limited. Resistance has showed it's inspirations 
 from Halo, Half-Life, Call Of Duty and Doom and has moulded a great game all fans of fps games 
 will enjoy.
  
  Story is top notch stuff and gameplay is just as good even though it will sadly suffer from the 
 curse of COD4 which will plague all FPS games until 2009. Buy Resistance if you're a fan of WWII 
 games, Halo games, or even just action games. You will not be let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f50p90
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 9:51 am PT
Review:  Even for being a launch title this is one of the better titles on the PlayStation 3. It is solid 
 from top to bottom. The single player or co-op campaign is great. Out of all the shooters I have 
 ever played, Resistance is the only one I ever cared to finished. That's saying something about 
 the story. On-line is very fun, ranging from 8-40 players, and different game modes so there is 
 something for everybody. Ranked games are hosted in lag free dedicated Sony servers. There are 
 2 different races: human and chimera which each have their strengths and weaknesses, plenty of 
 guns, and a lot of ranks to move up. There is also outfits to unlock through ranking up and completing 
 the single player on different difficulties. So there is a lot of replay value and fun to be had.
 
  
  Resistance could use minor improvements in certain areas, but they are mainly up to personal preference 
 and nitpicking. It has no major flaws. Not by any means a perfect game but a very great game. And 
 the Resistance franchise should leave a mark on this generations PlayStation 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indzman
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  As we all know Resistance : Fall of Mankind was a launch title for PS 3 , and it certainly lives 
 upto its launch title honour .Its a awesome FPS game set in late 1940's where europe specially 
 great britain with aid of america has to stop the invasion of alien forces called chimera on earth. One 
 american soldier Nathan Hale the main protagonist of the game has to bear the responsibilty to 
 defeat chimerean forces bases on britain .
  
  Little is know about chimera , but its presumed they are alien forces not mutants or creation from 
 a genetic experiments gone wrong .The game is told as in alternate history of world war 2 era .
 
  
  Soon after the game starts our main character Nathan Hale gets infected with chimera virus , where 
 rest succumbs nathan survives with the abilty of healing like chimera forces .
  
  Then nathan wrecks havoc on entire chimera bases on britain with help of ally soldiers ultimately 
 leading to victory .
  
  Nathan Hale gets to use standard miltary weapons like M5A2 carbine , rossmore 236 shotgun ,L 23 
 Fareye sniper rifle , standard human grenades etc but he can also use chimera weapons like bullseye 
 , hailstorm , auger , laark ( rocket launcher ) etc .Most of the weapons have awesome alernate 
 firing ability which can prove deadly as its primary fire .The weapons recoils , aiming are quite 
 accurate in the game . Nathan gets to ride Tanks , jeeps , chimerean machines called Stalker equipped 
 with cannons , turretts in the game .You get health packs to boost your health , if you happen 
 to deplete your health slots .
  
  You get tremendous action throughout the game and get various breeds of chimera opponents to deal 
 with .The gameplay is lenghty too . Plus you get to unlock skill points thoroughout the game depending 
 on its criteria .You get to recover intels as a side activity to enhance your skill points . You 
 get concept art packs , multiplayer skins , new weapons etc unlocked following your skill points 
 .
  
  The games next gen graphics / visuals are awesome .Soundqualty , AI , voiceacting , story , cutsenes 
 rocks in the game .
  
  Its multiplayer is quite fun . You get two player co op in the game plus many multiplayer modes 
 like deathmatch , team deathmatch , meltdown , breach , capture the flag , conversion etc .Its 
 multiplayer is quite popular .
  
  Its a must buy FPS game for all PS 3 owners , absolute worth it .Great game made by SCEA and insomniac 
 games , kudos to them .Can't wait for Resistance 2 now . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: icedfacekilla57
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  Where do i start? Resistance: Fall of man seemed like it would live up to games such as Halo 3 
 or COD4, but instead gives us an arcade type feel with limited amounts of ammo, health and anything 
 else. 
  
  Its hard to actually survive in this game, you can use cover, but often it doesn't help and leaves 
 you either running to find potions or ammo instead of you trying to lay back and enjoy the storyline. 
 You often have to restart missions because if this inability of a proper health system, having 
 said that, it takes 5 seconds to replenish a single bar of health, and once you lose that bar, 
 you cant get it back. 
  
  Enemy weapons overpower your own, not saying thats a bad thing, but you often will pump loads of 
 ammo into a single alien if your aim isn't straight. The difficulty overall is just frustratingly 
 hard, it can be fun at times, but other times it just leaves you wanting to put a bullet in your 
 brain.
  
  Having said that with the difficulty, I've played pretty tough games, legendary halo 3, veteran 
 COD4, but the lack of checkpoints in this game is where they made the mistake. Now i compare this 
 game with other games that have came out years later, knowing that, i have respectively grown a 
 feel for this game, but i dont know exactly if it can be described as tactical or run and gun.
 
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer is where this game can shine, it has a fair amount of players, equally matched as well 
 as the option of customizing your character and ranking up. Community can be great, although not 
 everyone has a mic, which can lead to communication problems when trying to go tactical.
  
  
  Pros
  + Great Multiplayer
  
  Cons
  - Frustratingly difficult
  - Hard to enjoy the 
 Storyline
  - Has an Arcadish feel to it
  - Aiming can be somewhat of a nudge
  - Your Health burns down at an ungodly rate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urworstnhtmare
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 10:10 pm PT
Review:  The first time I fired up Resistance: Fall Of Man, choose single player, easy difficulty and actually 
 landed in the first level, i was completely blown away by the amazing visuals of the smoldering 
 houses and the piled up rubble on the streets, the crisp sound of gunfire, explosions and screams 
 as I filled one ugly sucker of a chimera, with a couple of machine gun rounds. I'm sorry I'm starting 
 to babble, so lets get down to the nitty gritty of this 10/10 game.
  As you probably all no by now Resistance: Fall Of Man is a FPS set in an alternative Earth, in 
 Britain Blah, Blah. Russia has developed a deadly virus, which breaks lose and everyone starts 
 turning into chimeras, ugly suckers with big teeth and claws and lots of eyes. The virus spreads 
 through Europe, and while Britain thinks its safe because of the channel, the virus makes its way 
 through the tunnels below the channel. Britain of course falls fairly quickly and so America sends 
 in the army to help (whatever good that will do) . You play as Nathan Hale, an American marine sent 
 to cleanse Britain from this terrible plague. Basically Hale is no ordinary solider, because he 
 somehow posses some uncanny resistance to the virus. He does become infected however, but it makes 
 him quicker, stronger and he also gets one of the chimeras powers of healing themselves. He also 
 gains a telekinetic connection with the angels (Giant, flying chimeras which control all the smaller 
 ones using tele telekinetic powers) .
  Another predominate feature of this game is the weapons. You star off with a MG, but end up with 
 at least 16 guns, including the L11-2 Dragon which is a really cool flamethrower and the bullseye 
 a chimera weapon with a lock on function built into that gun.
  Overall an excellent game that demonstrates the polish and design that Insomnaic has become famous 
 for (first with the Spyro series and then the Ratchet and clank series) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEANLUCKUGAR
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Ok this game, Resistance: Fall of Man is anything but ordinary. It is goes amazing well with the 
 PS3 in many ways. First off the game has a futuristic value and feel to it even though it is set 
 in the early 1950's. The game futuristic sense matches the PS3's look, it sounds weird, but whatever 
 i'm writting and your not, SO YOU WILL READ EVERY DAMN WORD I HAVE TO SAY! "-a quote from The 
 Wedding Singer, slightly modified. Anyway this game is beyond the climax of all action-fps games 
 out there and to come. It's got amazing graphics-no... STUNNING graphics. And the controls are 
 so user friendly, you'd wish they were harder. The game delivers enchanced AI, kudos to the PS3's 
 processors, and features many weapons that will tickle your itcny trigger finger. The game aslo 
 has vehicles, sadly not in mulitplayer only in campaign mode, but that's no reason to give the 
 game less than perfect. A lot of time went into the development and playing of this game (believe 
 me play it on hard mode (beat it) , which unlocks superhumam mode then you'll see what i mean) . 
 If you paly the game from easy to superhuman you'll notice many differences (specifically weapons) 
 and difficulty obviously. Other than that this game is stunning and it's a buy or die type game 
 (OPM readers will know what i mean by that) . The game is lengthy so it will last you a while, 
 unless you play easy or medium mode and you arer hardcore you should beat it in less than a day.
 
  
  This game is perfect for that new PS3 owner. 
  If your thinking of buying a PS3, if you wanna wait until this autumn to buy one, check this out 
 . (It's a rumor but interesting)
  
  http://gizmodo. com/351496/slim-ps3-is-heading-for-shelves-this-autumn
  
  10/10
  (And the 
 game difficulty depends on your mode you pick, no special "FPS skill" is needed, so i just put 
 difficulty for the game at very easy) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  I am surprised critics gave this game a higher score than it deserved. I do agree this is a good 
 game, but there really isn't anything new and next gen about it. I was very disappointed with the 
 guns you get to used, they seemed so weak and phony; I can't really explain it. I thought the online 
 mode war a huge letdown; there wasn't any strategy or tactics. You just basically run around and 
 die a hundred times and get very aggravated. Then, once your done playing, you realize that it 
 really wasn't that much fun. The positive side is that the graphics are excellent, with high detail 
 (especially the glass) . The story mode is very long and very deep. In the end, this game deserves 
 a slightly above average rating because there isn't anything spectacular about it. There are many 
 better shooters out there, so don't wasted your time with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a good next gen shooter that a year later is still being played. The single player 
 mission is nothing short of fun and immerses the reader into a well thought out story. What was 
 lacking though is the guns did not pack a punch. On the ones were you could blow the chimera away 
 the bullets were scarce and hard to find. The death animations also made me feel empty. Maybe it 
 was the lack of rumble shock for the controller but it just didn't do it for me. the online, while 
 sub-par compared to more recent tiles on the market, is fun and good for a few hours of your time. 
 The variation between being a chimera and human are vast enough to make you come back for more 
 and master both sides. If you are planning on getting resistance, i'd wait till resistance 2 is 
 about to come out because the price will be reduced. The pricing of next gen games is rediculous, 
 and being over a year since it's release resistance needs to drop in price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I've played resistance a long time ago but just getting to review it now so ya...
  
  Anyway
  
  The graphics in resistance are not wat you would expect from insomniac. Instead of 
 being a cartoony cell shaded type of game, it's a violent good lookin game with plenty of gore. 
 Theres some graphic glitches but not many. The vistas are great and shadows dead on. The graphics 
 all together should have been better but graphics aren't everything.
  
  The gameplay is most of the experience and i glad to say that it's killer. It is very fun and addictive. 
 Honestly did you expect any little from insomniac every game they have released was a success. 
 It's alot like halo meets call of duty. Especially the driving resembels halo.
  
  The sound design was decent but wasen't perfect. The guns sounded off and explosions were bland. 
 The voice acting was amazingly good, considering ratchet and clank's were... off..... 
  
  Speaking of guns though there are many. Like r&c you can hold them all at once which is good and 
 helpfull. They all have fun secondary fires and are good tactial tools.
  
  ANY ps3 owner needs this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CQuark
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 4, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  When i purchased this game i was very satified with its outcome it combines different elements 
 and has fresh ideas. There are some great parts such as where that guy was on the roof, all in game 
 jokes aside there is well thought out, fast paced action mixed with run and gun.
  It is in my opinion much better than your average FPS like call of duty or duty my call, which 
 are all the same with boring graphics. Insomniac have had a breakthrough instead of their more 
 comical games you know the ones i mean. overall this is a near perfect FPS with a lot of charisma 
 i had alot of fun with the multiplayer, also the weapons in the game are sweet, it has a large 
 choice of guns and when you get further you get a new ring of weapons. overall there is alot to 
 do and it will keep you guesing until you finish it and is one hell of a ride. I think it is one 
 of the best FPS ive ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benjy117
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 4, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  This game is not worth the 60 bucks. This game is overrated by far. Once you get the feel of the 
 game you will start to realize its cheap. Your character floats rather than moves. The characters 
 you fight against are repetitive and weapons are not all that great. The sound doesn't work great 
 either with explosions going off right beside you .. but no sound from it?? I didn't even play 
 this game for about 20 minutes ... . I wasted my money. I only had my PS3 for two days and came 
 to realize that Sony needs some serious help. First thing they need dual shock back.. forget the 
 six axis. Also the playstation network isn't all that great either. 
  
  I guess COD4 will be my game to play for some time to come. I hope Sony gets their act together 
 to make some great games. I'm sticking with my 360 for now.. and for the PS3 its just a blu-ray 
 player for now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Stone Cold Amazing Graphics, Rock Out Gameplay, Great Story!, In this game you play as Nathan Hale 
 fighting for the world, You fight an Infecting Alien which makes it more of a Zombie Infection game... So 
 like if you get infected, They will get you converted into one of them, But the nice thing about 
 the Hero Nathan Hale, of course, Is Immune, By the cover you judge it as a Resistance, But really 
 it's Resistance, hehehe meaning, Resistance Immune or Tolerating It, NOT Resistance French XD for 
 against this, Nevermind, Off to the gameplay, uh-oh... It's the 50's and you are struggling to fight 
 Chimera, It has great weapons!, In fact if this happened in the 50's Which I wouldn't like to happen, 
 but if this happened I think this is what is gonna happen, but not sure of the Resistance, or Immune 
 thing, There's these, Leapers which try to infect you and they die when they do, There's the steelhead, 
 Whoa, those dudes are hard headed :D, I haven't finished the game, but Im guessing from all the 
 people saying, "I hope the Ending would be so much better...", Anyways, there's this zombie like 
 alien, the Hybrid, that is like the servant, They turn you into IT!!!, anyways this game is a MUST 
 GET, lacks split-screen online, well... which came first... Warhawk or Resistance, This game could 
 get boring cause its sorta hard... Coop Oh Wow finally, there are no more coops these days... Any 
 Ways MUST GET 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SRC_319
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is overall just a great and exciting game from start to finish. You take 
 the role as Nathan Hale, a U. S. soldier, and fight your way against the Chimera, some type of demon 
 type creatures trying to take over England... maybe even the world for that matter. The story is 
 great and it really gets you wanting more and more. Take it from a person who isn't a big fan of 
 FPS and go out and give this game a shot! If FPS really isn't your type of game genre (or even 
 if it is) the story will just get you sucked in and will want you begging for more and more. Luckily, 
 if you like the game, you'll be able to get more, because Resistance 2 is set to come out! 
  
  The graphics aren't as great as I had thought they'd be. Im not saying there bad at all though, 
 in fact there very good. They just didn't give me that WOW factor, which isn't a big deal to me, 
 as graphics aren't what appeal me to a game. Even for those of you out there that are in love with 
 graphics and need your game to have beautiful graphics, I don't think you'll complain to much with 
 the games visuals.
  
  As for voice acting, that's nothing to complain about either. I think they did a great job in that 
 area of the game. Your main character doesn't talk to much though, the game is like a story and 
 its being told by a survivor. Every now and then in little cut scenes Nathan Hale will come out 
 and say a few words but thats about it. All of the rest of the talking is done by the survivor 
 telling the story.
  
  The fighting in the game is great. If you like being able to have a variety of different guns and 
 using them as you please, then Resistance will not let you down in that category. You can chose 
 from so many different guns and if you beat the game you will also unlock other weapons to use 
 for your second time around playing the game!
  
  The difficulty of the game IMO was just right. As I stated, im not big into FPS, and it could be 
 do to the fact that im not that great at them. So, I played this game on Easy, and there were still 
 times I would get frustrated and things would be difficult. So, if you just cant play on easy and 
 need to play on harder levels, be prepared, because this game can get very hard! But, its a great 
 experience!
  
  Overall, RFoM's story, graphics, voice acting, difficulty and the fighting system left me wanting 
 more and more of this game. Lucky for me and all other Resistance fans, we will be getting Resistance 
 2! This game is deffinetly worth a rent, even though im sure after you rent it, you'll want to 
 buy it!
  
  *NOTE: This game also offers online-multiplayer. I wasn't able to get much into it because after 
 I beat the game, I gave it back to my friend. (He had lent it to me) But, all i've heard is good 
 things about the online, so you should check that out as well! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clbsk8s
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome!
  the basic plot is that aliens are everywhere and england are resisting (hence the name) against 
 the aliens.
  you can get some wicked cool alien guns and stuff.
  for example there is this one grenade called the hedgehog that shoots out spikes and kills everyone.
 
  online mode is amazing and really satisfying when you shoot someone in the head with a sniper 
 when they jump up!
  the bug things that crawl towards you are really cool because if they get on you they start to 
 eat you!
  i like the fact that it is like a medal of honor game with really good graphics and filled with 
 aliens everywhere.
  its quite hard sometimes but most of the time it isn't too difficult.
  the only bad points are that online can get a bit crazy and levels can get slightly repetitive.
 
  if you don't already have it or are thinking about getting it, GET IT.
  p. s cheese and pickle rocks! later 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flavort
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 29, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  First this game along with Ratchet, and Uncharted are the reasons I bought the PS3. The 360 is 
 the best system to get. So for me This game is pretty important. First I have to say this game 
 gets real good toward the last levels. Now that does not mean I did not enjoy the first 3/4. I 
 played it on the hard level and it was not challenging until then. The weapons in this game are 
 pretty cool though I felt you could not carry enough ammo and that some were not that useful. You 
 can use them but you dont have too. The graphics are good but get old until the end. The levels 
 are basically the same the whole game, not much variety. There is also too much energy so the challenge 
 drops. It is fun with out a doubt but the single player is not what it should be. NOW the multi 
 player LOOKS real fun. I have not played it. So this is more of a single player review. There is 
 loads of potential for the sequel, which is good. It is always nice to make a good game better. 
 That is what Insomniac is great at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is the standout Ps3 launch title. Of the somewhat disappointing group, 
 it is by far the best. It doesn't just happen to be the best of the worst, but it also happens 
 to be a completely enjoyable shooter, that will be remembered as one of Sony's flagship franchises 
 from now on.
  
  The story takes place in an alternate setting 1951, where WWII never happened, and instead, a mysterious 
 force known as the Chimera ravages its way through Europe. In the ruins of England, US and British 
 forces take a final stand to save humanity. You take the role of US Sgt. Nathan Hale, an untalkative 
 hero, that is tough as nails. You will uncover secrets about how the Chimera came to be, as well 
 as question your own humanity.
  
  The story in Resistance has a great base, but is told very poorly. The in game cutscenes are rare, 
 although they do a fairly good job of setting things up. The rest of the story is told through 
 black and white slideshows which are narrated good, but are very boring. The pacing is pretty good, 
 however, and it never really comes to a screeching halt. The missions that you have to do, really 
 don't connect well with the story, and although they make sense, don't seem to have any important 
 connection to the main story of the end of the world. Only the last 4 or 5 missions really pick 
 up storywise, which is a little disappointing, but it's great to know that Resistance is a franchise, 
 and the base is there. It just needs to be opened up for future titles.
  
  The artistic presence is high in Resistance. The feel of a war torn abandoned urban setting is 
 captured to the wire here, and it really shows in every corner of the environment. There's some 
 pretty good detail in everything, especially the character models, even if many of them are the 
 very same. The framerate remains at a solid 30, and never dips once, in the roughly 16 hour campaign, 
 and the countless hours you can spend online. There's an odd foggy look to everything, that kind 
 of lessens the visual experience, but still adds to the 1951 feel.
  
  Resistance shines through gameplay. The campaign, which you can do with another player in coop, 
 takes you through suburbs, frozen rivers, underground railways, and Chimeran control towers. The 
 variety in the enemies is great, and each one has a different way of taking it down. There are 
 12 weapons, each with normal fire modes, and one secondary fire mode, which can be anything from 
 a homing tag, to a shield, to a grenade launcher, and to a metallic bouncy ball turret. The weapons 
 are designed by the guys who made Ratchet and Clank, so it's no surprise here.
  
  The enemy AI is some of the best in any shooter. Enemies will throw grenades, take cover, and have 
 marksman worth aiming. Resistance is a challenge, and will keep you entertained and occupied for 
 a long time. Nathan will occasionally have one or two soldiers join him every now and then, although 
 it's a real chore to have them around. If you don't cover them, they'll get killed in just a few 
 seconds. It's a shame they don't do the same for you.
  
  There are a few vehicle sections, which feel very similar to Call of Duty 3, or Halo. The controls 
 are tight, and the models are sturdy, and great for splattering some alien all over your windshield.
 
  
  You really need to play Resistance to fully understand just how great the game really is. There's 
 things to blow up, dark places to explore, Chimera to kill, and humanity to save. It is really 
 a definitive moment for shooters on the Ps3.
  
  Resistance sounds great, even though the music is kept to a low. Whatever music there is, it's 
 an epic orchestral score. The voice acting isn't half bad, and the weapons sound great. There are 
 no sound bugs, and every little detail is recognized greatly.
  
  As the first great game on the Ps3, Resistance is still holding its own among the best. It's 16 
 hour campaign, and its endless multiplayer will keep it in your disc drive for awhile. Resistance 
 offers 40 player online matches without any hitches. It's a real feat for next gen gaming. Online 
 is always chaotic and fun, if you can get the hang of it. Unfortunately, there are a lot of players 
 with too much time on their hands, and keep the game from being any fun for anyone else. Become 
 one of them, or be eaten.
  
  Resistance although great overall, is a bit of a mixed bag. It isn't unique at all, and feels like 
 it should be something very average. The truth is, the game is far above average, and it's very 
 hard to place your finger on what makes it as good as it is. The only way to figure that out, is 
 to play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Another great succes from Insominac Gamez , and what da u know its there 1st Mature game.
  
  FoM is a great game , the graphics ar truly Amazing ( Ratchet and Clank Had also amazing graphics) The 
 Gameplay itself is nice and the co-op itselv is Great. The enemis ar ok and the story itself is 
 kinda of lik CoD4 but instead ov Peoples ther ar KIMERE (i alwayz call them like tat)
  
  The weapons ar awsome ( Its insominac ) But there arent alot ov weopens though and too bad it cant 
 upgrade ( well thats Ratchet games) The game itself is actually long and the graphics look modern 
 cool. the campaing is pretty fun but only with a friend otherwise game seem a bit dull. The online 
 mode is good but cant play with 2 players wich is a bit of an dissapointment.
  
  
  Overall its a nice game the co-op, gameplay, Matureness and its deffintly a good game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjacat11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Insomniac has come up with an expertly paced and well-made, if unoriginal, first-person shooter 
 that has stood out to be the PS3's best launch titles.
  
  It's storyline takes two insanely popular genres, WWII games and sci-fi shooters, and mixes them 
 together in one of the strangest yet still awesome plots in recent history. Combined with excellent 
 pacing, it will make you believe aliens in WWII is realistic. I'd love to see Resistance 2 flesh 
 out the story here even more.
  
  The graphics are decidedly meh, but I'll give Insomniac the benefit of the doubt here. After all, 
 this is a launch title. Did you really expect luscious graphics from day one? The sound design, 
 however, is well-done. At times, it's bombastic, and at times it's almost Kubrickesque. Kudos to 
 the sound design department.
  
  The game itself is pretty fun to play, yet you won't find any new mechanics here. The most original 
 thing here is the innovative weapon ideas, an Insomniac trademark. Then again, since it's done 
 so well, you won't find me crying a river about it. 
  
  The multiplayer is a showcase for the Playstation Network, and it certainly lives up to it's goal. 
 The multiplayer-oriented gameplay of the last two Ratchet and Clank games has given Insomniac the 
 needed experience in this department. 
  
  Overall, I'd say Resistance is at least worth a rental.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thelazygen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:35 am PT
Review:  When gamers think of the Playstation 3's launch, they always tend to point out some of the poor 
 launch titles, saying that there was no reason to buy it at launch. I cannot comment except to 
 say, that I did not buy a PS3 at launch, however when I did purchase a PS3, this was my first, 
 and only game for quite some time.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man, is a first person shooter, set in an alternate time from, where World 
 War II never happened, and instead, aliens overran all of europe, with superior technology, and 
 overwhelming numbers. Eventually they make their way to Britain, where this game takes place, following 
 the actions of a US solder named Nathan Hale.
  
  The game starts you off with with a telling of the story so far, with the cut scene's style along 
 the lines of a documentary, with pictures moving across the screen, along with some in game scenes. 
 When you first see the in game graphics, you realize that this game is truly beautiful, with extremely 
 detailed character models and amazing environments.
  
  The voice acting in this game is very good, and there are no parts that will make you complain 
 about the actors. This game has amazing voice acting, and you feel like you indeed in London, fighting 
 along side other solders. It's amazing to hear all the lines shouted between different characters 
 on the radio, and it's great to hear solders talking to each other, be it while sniping, or just 
 killing a few aliens right next to you.
  
  The game gets you right into the gameplay, with you shooting at aliens within the first 20 seconds 
 of being in control of the character. The gameplay is noticeably fast, compared to a lot of other 
 first person shooters, such as Halo, Killzone, and BLACK. The game has all the new age features 
 you would need in a first person shooter, such as jump, throw grenade, secondary fire, melee, and 
 zoom. Unlike most of the recent shooting games, you can carry as many weapons as you can collect, 
 which harkens back to the days of older first person shooters. The gameplay is very slick, and 
 in general compared to most first person shooters, very smooth. Sadly, the amazing gameplay is 
 not without fault, with minor problems, including, when zoomed in, if you reload, it takes you 
 out of zoom for the animation, but then pulls you back into zoom when the animation is done.
  
  One thing of mention, is the guns in this game are some of the most original guns seen in a 
 first person shooter, ranging from rockets with air breaks, to a bullet time sniper, this game's 
 weaponry puts, just about any other first person weaponry to shame. It's a bit of a sad thing that 
 there is not more regular human weapons, or pistols, from the time period, but it can easily be 
 overlooked, when compared to the other guns in the game.
  
  The graphics in the game, can at times, look simply breath taking, with London looking very realistic, 
 and most of the game's scenery being extremely detailed. In general, most of this game looks amazing, 
 but again, this is not without problems. Though this game looks amazing most of the time, it suffers 
 from having some of the environments so bland looking that it takes away from how amazing the graphics 
 look, for example, looking at the outdoors of london, is incredible, looking down a hallway, however 
 good it looks, will still make the graphics seem bland, so although most of the time the graphics 
 look amazing, sometimes the blandness of it will look "last generation". Worry not gamers, this 
 is not often, and most of the time, your eyes will be treated to very amazing visuals. There are 
 so many things that could be said about the visuals, but in the end all that really need to be 
 said is that they look great. This game additionally, has the best looking snow I have ever seen 
 in a game.
  
  The game's difficulty is a notch up from most other first person shooters, making you restart levels 
 over and over again, even on easy. Don't think that this game is impossible to get the hang of, 
 because you will miss out on a real gem. There are enough difficulties in this game to keep you 
 coming back for a challenge.
  
  The level design in this game is pretty good, with no levels that are absolutely horrible, and 
 no levels that give you a sense of deja voo, in addition, there is no backtracking that is found 
 in a lot of other first person shooters. There are a few levels that you will undoubtedly want 
 to play over again, and in general, the game's level design is very good.
  
  The sound element of this game is good, with just about everything sounding the way it should, 
 though there is nothing incredibly outstanding about it. In general, the guns sound like guns, 
 and the alien weapons and machinery sound like they ought to.
  
  The music in this game is good, not incredible, and not something you would want to listen to when 
 not playing the game, but it certainly works where it is used, and never sounds out of place. In 
 general, the music really helps set some of the atmosphere.
  
  The game's story keeps you wondering what will happen, and constantly makes you wonder how it could 
 end, at the same time keeping you with all the action. The characters are pretty well fleshed out 
 even if some are not given many lines. By the end of the game, the odds are you will be at least 
 a little attached to the characters, and world. The cut scenes do the job of telling the story, 
 and they work fine, but I know they could have been done better, in addition, there is a lot of 
 the story that wasn't explained as well as it could have been, because a lot of the mysterious 
 of this game are left unexplained, which will probably be explained in further sequels, but overall, 
 the story is satisfying, and worth the time it takes to play through it. In general, this is one 
 game world that many will be waited to return to as soon as possible.
  
  This game has extremely well done multiplayer, allowing up to 4 players on one PS3, and with a 
 load of maps, and a ton of gameplay customization options, from which guns you can use, to the 
 damage they do. In addition to competitive multiplayer, this game also includes a cooperative mode, 
 to play through campaign, although it is split screen only, it is still a large and welcome addition. 
 the game has extensive online options, with a very good friends list, and clan set up, to the amazing 
 matchmaking, and party system seen in Halo. Online runs very smooth with very low lag, even in 
 the 40 player online matches. If you need even more reasons to come back to this game after beating 
 it, there are multiple documents hidden in every levels which provide back story, and skill points 
 to acquire by doing different tasks. After completing the game, you unlock 4 new weapons, and a 
 new type of grenade for your next play through. If you beat the game on hard, in unlocks a new 
 difficulty as well. This game has a ton of reasons to keep your interest for a long time.
  
  Overall, the story could have been more detailed, and the gameplay could have been a little 
 smoother, and there are a few things that could be added, but none of this stops Resistance: Fall 
 of Man from being a very solid first person shooter, and a game that should be in every PS3 owner's 
 library, and every first person shooter fan's hands.
  
  
  Presentation: 8.0
  The game's cut scenes, and story detail could have been better, but in general, the enemies, and 
 game really speaks for itself.
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  The graphics look incredible most of the time, though sometimes, the blandness of some of the environments 
 drags the game's visuals down.
  
  Sound: 9.0
  The sound is decent, along with the music, but the voice acting is very good.
  
  Gameplay: 
 8.7
  The gameplay has everything you'd come to expect in a first person shooter of today, and it's all 
 implemented pretty well, though there are some rough spots.
  
  Lasting Appeal: 10.0
  This game has enough reasons for you to come back and play it for a long time to come, be in single 
 or multiplayer.
  
  OVERALL: 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Now I'm not a big fan of FPS or shooter games, in general, but there was something about Resistance: 
 Fall of Man that I, to this day, still haven't figured out, that made me pick it up and say, "Well 
 damn. This is a shooter I'll definitely keep."
  
  Since I'm not a big fan of shooters, I'll try not to degrade it in that sense, since what others 
 loathe, other would likely like.
  
  For starters, I think I'll start on the gameplay and storyline. For starters, although being another 
 American-planned story in Britain, it was a good story; telling the tale of a lone American soldier 
 on foreign soil, in a country of a vicious "virus", as it could be put. Though the gameplay is 
 something that can be expected; going from one point to the next, killing monsters, I couldn't 
 help but actually get immersed in the story.
  
  The levels were also nicely done. Though of course, the graphics of a Next-Gen console are going 
 to be full-on "we're gonna make it as realistic as possible" kind of thing, they did well to make 
 the game as accurate as they could. It was actually pretty nice to have a game actually set in 
 the UK. They also did a pretty good job with voices in the game, as well. The accents were easily 
 distinguishable, throughout.
  
  I also thing the game was a nice little twist from the real events of back then, as well. Taking 
 a real event, and turning it into a sort of sci-fi battle for mankind was a nice little twist to 
 the tale of the 1940's.
  
  Overall, I'd say if you have a PS3, this game might be a good grab for you. I don't even like FPS 
 games, and I actually enjoy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyplatinum
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man has been the most successful launch game in sales and attention, and it 
 does deserves it. Resistance is set in England when WW2 never happened. The world has been taken 
 over by Russian mutants named chimera. The gameplay is mostly excellent and fun. Levels and interesting, 
 bosses are challenging, online is brilliant, excellent co-op, there is no flaw. However graphics 
 could be better. In some areas the detail is impressive but sometimes is slightly poor. Probably 
 the best thing about this game are the multiplayer modes. Co-op is extremely fun (arguably the 
 best in any FPS) and online Resistance is almost flawless. This all accounts to the fact that Resistance 
 is an excellent game with outstanding gameplay and only some minor flaws - 9.0
  
  + Great Weapons
  + Interesting Story
  + Imaginative Bosses
  + Amazing Multiplayer
  - Mediocre 
 Visuals
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: khaos12a
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Fall of Man was sort of overlooked in all of the hype about Gears of War and Halo 3. But this is 
 one title that is definitely worth the price. Fall of Man never has you relaxing through levels, 
 simply shooting easy and unskilled enemies like in Halo and other games. You always feel as though 
 you are very mortal, as you fight through hordes of chimera that always find ways to outsmart you. 
 The AI of the chimera is very good. They will aim at any part of you that is not behind cover. 
 You must be very quick and responsive to survive in the style of old shooters. The weapons themselves 
 are also kind of Ratchet and Clank like. But, this is actually a good thing. The Bullseye for example 
 has a tag fire that can lock onto an enemy, and all fire will be directed at that enemy. This makes 
 the game fairly interesting, because a inaccurate short range weapon can be effective at long ranges. 
 Other weapons can also do things like shoot through walls and slow down time. All together Fall 
 of Man is a great experience that can compare to F. E. A. R., Half-Life, Far Cry, and all of the other 
 great FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Br0ck8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  Resistance is one of those games that you rearaly see and not just because its the first game to 
 ever replace wwII with a mutated virus which wipes out all of europe but becauseyou stick with 
 it just dosnt get boring. Once you have finished the campaign on easy mode in a few hours if you 
 stick with it long enough you will be saying well thats not too hard i dont see why people cant 
 pass it .Well just try it on hard mode and gaining all the skill points which you will have to 
 go to hard mode for than you wont be able to get threw the 1st qauter of the game without falling 
 to the gound because of a rain of bullseyes raining down on you or augers streming threw evry wall 
 and leapers having you running for you life and dont get me started when you reach the stalkers. AND 
 even when you conpleted hard mode you find that theres a SUPERHARD mode. BET YOU didnt see that 
 coming. Well the single player out of the way or your just so annoyed you cant be bothered to get 
 back to it you will probaly find yourself hooked to the online play. In fact i was already on the 
 rank of seargant major before i even passed the first three missions. it futures some very good 
 multiplayerbut of course it dosnt rival warhawk or cod4 but will definatly have you going. At first 
 you will be getting about 1-2 kills each game with about 20 deaths but thats to expected and once 
 you have gone up a few ranks you will be getting the exact opposite. This is a definate buy game 
 which all ps3 owners sould have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StrangeBreww
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is one of my all time favorite shooters. The game brings nothing much new 
 to the table, but is still a action packed experience. 
  
  Story- You play as Sargent Hale, and the game takes place in WWII, but instead of fighting humans, 
 your in war againts the Chimera (aliens) , trying to fight them out of Europe. 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is pretty challeging. You don't have much health and your health doesn't 
 re heal itself, instead you have to find health pick ups- pretty old school. There is a assortment 
 of guns you get, from typical alien guns, to rocket launchers, to sniper rifles. The Chimera, are 
 pretty smart. They won't randomly come up to you, but they'll hide in safe spots and if you get 
 close to them they'll melee you with thier gun. You get to fight alot of different aliens but they 
 all kind of look the same, just in different sizes. The game does have fantastic replay value. 
 Everytime you'll replay it, it'll get more challening. The co-op mode isn't the best compared to 
 normal campiegn mode.
  
  Graphics- Graphics wise, Resistance brings nothing new to the table, but the graphics are still 
 pretty impressive. The sharpness and colors are not the best, but everything is detailed greatly. 
 The shading is also good to. The enviorments are nice looking and feel very realistic with rubble 
 everywhere. 
  
  Sound- The sound is good. You'll hear the Chimera talking in alien voices, and explosions sound 
 good too. When you jump, you'll hear all of your supplies on you, clatter together which is kind 
 of cool.
  
  Online Multiplayer- Online multiplayer is fun. I am sure other people like it alot, but there is 
 really no technique to it- basically just running and jumping around. But, some people love it.
 
  
  Bad- Explosions look weak, but sounding great makes up for it. You can walk right through alien 
 bodies. All of the aliens look the same, just in different sizes. Co-op isn't all that great, but 
 still fine. 
  
  So overall Resistance Fall of Man was a great FPS experience, nothing much new, but still very 
 fun. And with terrific replay value and online Multiplayer on the side, you'll probably be playing 
 this game for awhile. I would recomend to get this game, because it's just a game that you should 
 definitly get for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 19, 2008 4:18 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to playing this game, but demo got me a bit worried about the graphics.
 
  
  Now that I've got a full version, unfortunately my fears came true: the graphics is definitely 
 not a "next gen" kind: low-resolution textures, mostly blocky objects, weird FOV (Field of View) , 
 and fairly low framerates left me wondering "how is this a game, developed for a next-gen console???"
 
  
  The animation of characters is very robotic and not natural, and the set of animations is very 
 limited: characters can do only a few actions, and there basically no rag-dolls either, so when 
 you kill an enemy - it simply falls in exactly the same way each time right where it stood, and 
 it doesn't look believable.
  
  As far as the gameplay is concerned - it's fairly boring. Very little variety in terms of battle: 
 same enemy models, all equal, they don't look like live beings, more like robots (again, due to 
 a very limited set of animations) .
  
  I haven't finished playing the game yet, but so far, I don't even feel like continuing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daphenom901
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  In Resistance: Fall of Man you play as the American soldier Nathan Hale. Your objective is to assist 
 the British in defending their land against a mysterious breed of Chimera. The only information 
 you receive about them is that they initially came from somewhere in Russia, and are weird alien-like 
 creatures that use human bodies in order to create new soldiers.
  
  As the storyline progresses, the events performed by you [Nathan Hale] are narrated by a female 
 British officer that you save from a Chimeran conversation center. During loading screens and at 
 the conclusion of cut scenes she'll summarize the things you have done, and give you a preview 
 at the things your about to do.
  
  As you progress through the levels of this game, you'll fight many different types of chimera, 
 from human-size scorpions to giant spider tanks you will enjoy shooting them up with a variety 
 of different 50s era weapons as well as Chimeran technology. You'll also notice an internal conflict 
 within Nathan Hale most likely caused by his "Resistance" to the Chimeran infection.
  
  The online for Resistance is flat out old school online shooting gameplay. Very few tactics are 
 necessary, but if you have faster reactions and better awareness than your opponent, you'll have 
 the upper hand. Although, there is no innovation in the online play, you do have the ability to 
 rank up with the experience you gain from getting kills and winning battles. You start at Private, 
 and if you devote enough time to the game, you may eventually get promoted to General.
  
  Back to the offline, Resistance also offers a cooperative mode. It follows the exact same storyline 
 as the single player, and features the same amount of enemies. Therefore making it a lot easier. 
 The biggest flaw in this, is the continuance of referring to Hale as being the only one left, and 
 obviously in co-op there are two people. The 2nd player plays as a random black soldier with a 
 different uniform than the others.
  
  In summary, Resistance is a great shooter, that doesn't stray to far from the beaten path. Hopefully, 
 in sequels, Insomniac will be able to improve on the innovation in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  It may not be quite as good as some say, but Resistance is still pretty good. It was a launch-title 
 for the PS3 and is very good when it comes to Single and Multiplayer. It's pretty much your average 
 FPS but wih a pinch of Insomniac, so you'll know it's good. I've thought of Resistance: FoM as 
 Halo with some elements from Counter-Strike. This is a spoiler-free review so anyone who hasn't 
 even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Online features are pretty cool, Skill points are back, Includes the British, very fascinating 
 levels, Campaign ain't too bad.
  
  THE BAD
  Not much colour in the graphics, not much difference to the average FPS,.
  
  Graphics
  The 
 graphics in Resistance are very nicely done. There's a fair amount of detail in everything and 
 you will not be disappointed. It's what should come out of a bunch of Insomniacs. Just a couple 
 of problems, though they ain't biggies. It's common to see streams of grass not done properly, 
 so that doesn't really matter. Another problem I found was the colour in the game. When in the 
 campaign, though not as much in some of the later maps and multiplayer maps, it's all kind of yellow 
 and grey. Not the best mix but it's acceptable. Plus, there's always the multiplayer maps. When 
 dying, the screen turns black and white which is understandable, due to FoM being a game set in 
 the 50's.
  
  Sound
  Like many First-Person Shooters, music isn't very common. Unfortunately, this is sometimes the 
 case for Resistance. Some of the games Insomniac have made in the past have had wonderful music 
 from Spyro the Dragon to Ratchet & Clank. Sometimes I think they could've done a bit better with 
 the music. There is music although I find some of it a bit repetitive. Sound-effects? Well, I guess 
 it's safe to say that they're pretty darn good. Gunfire, creature noises. It's all pretty good.
 
  
  Gameplay
  Resistance: Fall of Man plays like many FPS games. That may sound bad, but it's still quite fun. 
 It's got a good Campaign, finding guns along the way and shooting the crap out of the creatures 
 which have invaded England. The campaign is quite difficult, though it gets easier once you have 
 yourself a plan. Skill Points are back, which have appeared in all of the Insomniac Games since 
 Spyro 2. These can be earned by doing certain achievements and you may happen to get some in some 
 of the most unexpected places. Like most of the First-Person Shooters these days, there's Online. 
 That's quite fun. There are a lot of different game types you can choose from, such as Deathmatch, 
 Capture the Flag etc. It can get quite addictive. You can have you Online stats which adds your 
 Total Kills, Total Deaths, Total Wins and Losses. You can also earn medals by doing certain tasks, 
 such as Headshots, Sniper Kills etc. If you have a headset, you can also chat to others online. 
 Weapons are pretty cool. Some are 50's themed while some of the others are guns that the Chimera 
 originally held. The gameplay in Resistance: FoM is really quite good, and even if it's like an 
 average FPS, it's still pretty good!!
  
  Character Design
  You take control of Nathan Hale, an American who's saved the British from the Chimera. The Chimera 
 are this alien like race which are the main enemies the game. So you could say this is some sort 
 of war between the Humans and the Chimera.
  
  Storyline
  The game starts in 1951, with the protagonist, Sgt. Nathan Hale, as part of the United States Army 
 Rangers' 5,000-man task force to help liberate Britain and to retrieve a secret weapon that the 
 British claim can be used against the Chimera. However, the force is quickly wiped out by a Chimeran 
 spire attack, which infects all of the soldiers with the Chimeran virus, soon after landing in 
 York. Hale, the only survivor, appears to be infected with the virus despite not having gone into 
 a coma; he possesses increased metabolism and limited regeneration, and his irises have become 
 gold/yellow, somewhat like the Chimera. He now harnesses the power to use sym-bacs, the game's 
 version of health packs. The story sounds sort of familiar, but it is still pretty good.
  
  Overall
  Resistance: Fall of Man is great FPS that's worth the purchase if you own a PlayStation 
 3. It's probably the best PS3 Launch title too. Resistance: Fall of Man does contain flaws, but 
 nevertheless it's still a pretty sweet FPS.
  9/10
  
  BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:15 pm PT
Review:  So here's the deal with Resistance: Fall of Man. WWII never happened -- no Hitler, no Stalingrad, 
 no victory in Europe. The Russians had some biological experiment going on (involving alien crap) 
 and ended up losing control of the situation. The Chimera (the bad guys... mutants) take over Russia 
 and then work westward across Europe... eventually jumping the channel and taking over England.
 
  
  The American's are sent in to try to take back Europe... though they have no clue what the Chimera 
 are. The press is government ran and what really happened is a mystery to us. You play as Nathan 
 Hale -- a no nonsense, cold eyed American who is just doing his job.
  
  Without giving too much away, you become deeply involved with the story and do a lot of things 
 to change the tide of the war. The story revolves around your actions for the most part and the 
 story is told pretty well -- though it could have been more immersive.
  
  The gameplay is pretty fun. It is definetly a run-n-gun type of game but you definetly need some 
 strategy with it. The Chimera are smart enemies and will mow you down if you just run straight 
 at them... not to mention their minefields. So this game does have a lot of running and gunning, 
 but it also takes some solid tactics to get through.
  
  The sniper rifle almost feels useless because it takes 2-4 shots to take down a Chimera (even headshots) 
 and you don't get a ton of ammo for it. Kind of disheartening -- but not a terrible downfall.
 
  
  The health system is also non-regenerative. You have to find healthpacks (kind of old school, huh?) 
 and sometimes that results in too much dying. This is frustrating sometimes since there aren't 
 a ton of checkpoints.
  
  The graphics are pretty good. From the guns to the Chimera scaring the crap out of you everything 
 looks fine and realistic for the time period of the game -- including the controversial Chapel.
 
  
  The controls are good, but not perfect. You have to hold L2 to remain crouched and then you just 
 let go to stand... you can't run and you can't go prone. 
  
  The game sounds great (when you hear jumpers screaming, it freaks you out... and when other creatures 
 in the game are freakily silent and sneak up on you it can put you at wits end) and does a good 
 job of presenting the sound. Up to par for a 9.0 game.
  
  The thing most fun about this game is that it is challenging, has a good story and is unique to 
 the FPS genre. There are times where the game will have you on the edge of your seat -- which is 
 always fun. There's also a co-operative option for the story mode, which doesn't skip any cutscenes 
 or anything. Co-op makes it fun, though the 30 second respawn times (unless your partner heals 
 you) is a bit ridiculous.
  
  I tried to touch all the good and bads of the game without going on and on, so there it is. Definetly 
 worth renting, and I'd say at least 8/10 of you would enjoy buying the game. Resistance 2 has been 
 confirmed for 2008, so it's best to play Resistance now and get up to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magpie9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Graphics
  Obvioulsy by the standard of today the graphics arn't suberb in any way and there alot of games 
 which haev got better visuals. When it was released though the graphics were fairly good for a 
 launch title and the detail especially on the actual chimera was delicate enough for you to appreciate. 
 The weapons look detailed and the figures in the game do as well. Especially in the later levels 
 you can start to see some very cool looking stuff. The problem is that not all of the game is as 
 high quality as this and some levels are just bland and slightly uninspiring which doesn't immerse 
 you into the game as it should. Background visuals can become washed out but in all it holds a 
 very steady framerate so the game is always keeping it at a fast pace like it should be played. 
 The art direction is grey, brown very dark which considering the setting of the story it should 
 be , but again the later levels show off some really interesting ideas and some of the levels in 
 the towns and citys leave little to be desired sometimes.
  
  Gameplay
  This is most probably resistance's strongest point which it needs to be but its nothing special 
 or ground breaking , it just does it well. ITs a typical run and gun and a solid one at that making 
 use of past formulas and implementing them very well. First lets start off with the single player 
 which can be played in offline co-op which with a friend makes the game a bit easier and a little 
 funner depending who you play with. The story is bearable and does have a nice twist to it nearer 
 the end. It also takes a different spin on the idea of aliens invading earth but i can't say to 
 much. The main character is abit bland though and the lack of dialouge from him makes it hard for 
 you to relate to him ,also some of the narrative cutscenes can start to crate after a while , but 
 not in any sense does this make the game annoying to play just gives you ample time to yawn for 
 a few minutes. The game really picks up nearer the end of the game when you start to fight tougher 
 and more radical enemies. The A. I is adpative and can give you a real test since they will make 
 use of cover and flanking tatics and make very good use of grenades. The mulitplayer is where it 
 is at though boasting you typical types of deathmatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag etc and 
 has a sizeable amount of maps plus there is two map packs allready been released. You get to play 
 as human or chimera both different in there own way and have different strenghs and weaknesses. 
 Up to 32 players can make the game chaotic but in a good way with constant action and very fast 
 paced. Also with dedicated servers most games are lag free and boast most of the weapons from single 
 player.
  
  Weapons 
  There is a crazy selection of weapons in Resistance you get your basic carbine rifle and a chimera 
 alternative the bullseye which is slighty stronger, then there is the classic shotgun and sniper. 
 ITs the other weapns such as the Auger which makes things interesting being able to chain one shot 
 from a arc charger to shooting through walls with the auger. There a few weapons that are unavailable 
 in multiplayer from the single player mode but for balancing reasons you can understand why. From 
 the creators of rachet and clank would you really expect any less then imaginative and over the 
 top weapons.
  
  Value?
  True for today this most probably isn't the best fps out but it generally is one of the best multiplayer 
 experiences on the ps3 to be had. There are some replayable values in doing the single player campaign 
 but not enough to really draw yourself back to doing it maybe once or twice. The multiplayer though 
 will keep you coming back and with good reason since its the best section of the game. In all its 
 very solid and with a few improvements it could have been more than just solid but the game shows 
 true promise and if the ideas and imagination that shined through near the end of the game can 
 be translated to the upcoming sequel then the game will raise the bar. This is a game you want 
 to play if you are a fan of the fps genre and a ps3 title i would highly recomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeysmall
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 3:17 am PT
Review:  I liked this game. It came with my PS3 and was a great introduction to high definition gamine. 
 You start off in mainly WWII scenarios battling against supercharged beings which seem to have 
 been a USSR cold war experiment gone wrong. They were going to take over the world, but you single 
 handedly (for the most part) stop them in their tracks. Its a refreshingly different angle on the 
 1st person shooter theme.
  
  You wont be blow away by any original game play features in this game. It doesn't push any boundaries.
 
  
  However, it does what it does very well. Detailed varied and sometimes spectacular environments 
 keep your interest up. Some of the AI is a bit feeble in places, but I don't think it is weak enough 
 to spoil the overall feel of the game.
  
  I you want a good first person shooter for the PS3, buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bxela
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  Brilliant game that is well worth paying for. Especially if you have a friend to co-op with. Me 
 and my friend spent at least 30 hours in 2 days playing this game, around 12 for the campaign and 
 the rest for multiplayer. The campaign is a great blend of levels that tie in with the story really 
 well. From blasting their heavy machinery with your tank, to sneaking through the sewers, Resistance: 
 Fall of man doesn't let down. 
  
  
  The Graphics and Sound are amazing and make you feel as though you are really in the battlefield. 
 Even the AI is amazing, after using my same technique to lure the hybrids into the the doorway 
 so that my friend would club them 3 times over, the 4th Hybrid instead waited for me and clubbed 
 me. I could have sworn that they were learning.
  
  The multiplayer feature is one that was heavily enjoyed by me and my friend, as we had countless 
 battles with 1 hit KO snipers only. Many resulting in us circling around each other, constantly 
 shooting 1 second too late. 
  
  The only downside that I found in the game was the level where you steal the chimeran stalker, 
 only to use it for about 3 minutes. I was looking forward to blasting some menials.
  
  Overall, I found Resistance: Fall of Man to be a terrific game that I urge you to buy and I look 
 forward to the release of Resistance 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  (5 out of 5) Story: Resistance does a clever way in rewriting the course of history and making 
 its own. Before World War 2 occurs, an alien species known as the Chimera laid siege on the world. 
 You will play as Nathan Hale, an American soldier in the U. S. army. The story follows him taking 
 part in the resistance against the Chimera. With excellent narrating, fascinating enemies, and 
 a little bit of history, you have got yourself one awesome story plot.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Gameplay: There is one rule in a 1st person shooter game, that rule is to shoot 
 everything in sight that moves. You will be doing that a lot in the game, but I can't complain. 
 Resistance has a vast variety of creative and unique weapons, which is to be expected from the 
 creators of the Ratchet and Clank series. The game does a great job in combining full head on assaults 
 with creepy corridor crawling, so if you love action packed gameplay and being scared to your wits 
 end, then you will find yourself enjoying double the goodness. Other then the guns, Resistance 
 doesn't really do anything innovative as a shooter, but the game is still loads of fun.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Graphics: Resistance delivers top notch graphics. The enemy design is especially 
 well done. There is a variety of Chimera for you to shoot and kill. The environments are detailed 
 and most importantly, destructible. I think they could have done better overall in the graphics 
 though. I'm not saying that the graphics are bad, I'm just saying that the graphics could be enhanced 
 a bit more. I think the PS3 is capable for more especially with its Blu-ray.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Sound: Explosions, gun shots, the cries of the dying Chimera. The sound quality 
 is excellent and like I said before, the narrating is nicely done as well. It's good that it is 
 too, since most of the time during cut scenes you will be hearing a narrator. The voice acting 
 was done well, but I just wish more characters would talk during the cut scenes, but that's just 
 me.
  
  Overall: Resistance: Fall of Man is an excellent game. This is one of the best shooters on the 
 PS3 by far, and with Resistance 2 coming out this alternate reality will get even better
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_spartanator
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:28 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the best first-person shooter games i've ever played and one 
 of my most beloved. This game is game has excellent graphics, amazing gameplay and a stunning story 
 line. What is different about this game is that it is set in a past setting, but contains futuristic 
 weaponery and a viral alien-like species, known as Chimera, trying to kill all the humans and take 
 over the world. You play as American Nathan Hale who is unique, because he is one of the only known 
 humans to of been attacked by the Chimeran virus and still be in his human form, but he isn't completely 
 himself, some of the other characters start to notice Chimeran traits in him as they are battling 
 to defend England and remove the Chimeran threat. As you go through the game more of the story 
 is revealed, but even more mysteries are created. This game also has a great online multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tipsycoma
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  To me, Resistance is like the Halo 3 of the PS3. Even though these two games were released at totally 
 different times, they share something very similar. They are both AMAZING games from the technical 
 aspect, but they both are quite shallow and won't last very long. 
  
  GRAPHICS: The graphics are excellent. Great lighting and textures. Explosions look awesome and 
 plenty of cool special effects. The framerate holds up pretty well too.
  
  GAMEPLAY: Very fast paced and restless, especially online when you have 40 people on the same server. 
 Its quite simple, you basically run around and kill people with assault rifles, snipers, rocket 
 launchers, and some cool new alien weapons. Each gun has an alternate fire. There are some new 
 twists to the online mode that have never been seen before. There are two classes/teams you can 
 be: The humans or the Chimera (aliens) . The chimera have this special ability to go into a rage, 
 which increases their health and the damage they inflict upon enemies, for a short period of time. 
 To compensate the humans have grenades and grenade launchers at spawn. As fun as it sounds, Resistance 
 gets old after a while, and you'll lack initiative to keep playing it unless you are in a very 
 active clan. 
  
  STORY: Its quite interesting I guess. You'll find yourself wondering what happens to the main character. 
 There are very rich cutscenes that will keep you interested. 
  
  OVERALL: Great game. Its worth buying but don't think you'll be into it for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljlrj
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Wow. You people who just give the game a bad score without playing the game are pathetic. I picked 
 up a Japanese PS3, and Resistance with it. All you people comparing it to Gears are idiots, and 
 probably haven't played the game. Same to the people who are just giving the game a 0.0... Screw 
 off and play the game.
  
  After I've been playing the game extensively, I'll give you an honest, truthful review.
  
  
 Gameplay - The gameplay is superb. What make the game play so amazing is the weapons. Each weapon 
 is unique, and is required for certain situations. You'll experience about half way through the 
 game that the variety and uniqueness of the weapons is very much required and incredibly useful. 
 Each weapon provides a new experence, and that is something that lends itself well to establishing 
 a name for itself in this genre. Thanks to the unique weapons, the game really has a unique feel 
 everytime you play it.
  
  Issues about the AI can be seen here, but that happens with every game. Beside a few odd stand 
 stills here and there, the AI is actually pretty good. They do take cover when needed, and rush 
 when needed. They melee if you get within range, and step away if attempt to rush and melee them. 
 They do adapt to your play; so if you are standing in one spot and just staying still, they will 
 flank you, or do the same, giving the game a real life feeling. It pays to keep moving in the game.
 
  
  It very much is a run and gun shooter, although that is something Insomniac meant to do. Vehicles 
 are in the game, and they are fun... while they last. Vehicular moments don't last all that long, 
 but when you do get them, it is extremely fun, just wish there was more of it. Pacing is a little 
 odd, but you'll experience more of the games atmosphere better this way... Going from a huge fight 
 to walking in a creeping corridor experiencing the ever changing world for a little bit is cool. 
 Another cool thing is hero moments, which you rarely notice at all. You can save a guy, or let 
 a guy die if you want. And it helps and is quite cool to play it looking for those... In all, the 
 weapons are enough reason to play this game, and they; ll keep you coming back for more.
  
  Graphics - Very underrated. The game isn't going to blow you away, but it does look fantastic, 
 and better than most next gen games on any console. Lighting is extremely good, and physics add 
 a good "omph" to the games visuals. Detail on the enemies is incredible... as is the animation. 
 Atmosphere is wonderful and very freaky.
  
  Another amazing aspect to graphics is the particle effects. Smoke looks like smoke, and just looks 
 fantastic. Grenades look good when going off, and really pack a punch. Gun bursts look great and 
 really look real for that type of weapon. And perhaps the most impressive thing about the graphics, 
 is the absolutely amazing draw distance. Perhaps being some of the best in gaming, it really gives 
 the game a sense of scale, and believability. The world feels huge, and real, and that is extremely 
 important. Had this game not had the draw distance and atmosphere is does, it just wouldn't be 
 the same game... Absurb...
  
  Textures aren't the most detailed, but they get the job done, and when not focusing in on them, 
 look fantastic. All this comes together in one of the most smooth experiences in the history of 
 gaming. No matter what happens in the game, the framerate sticks and 30FPS. Hundreds of bullets, 
 and explosions, dozens of Chimera and humans, with physics and voice acting doing there thing, 
 with tons of AI calculation and draw distance effect, the game is absurdly smooth, and never drops 
 a hitch.
  
  Sound - Perhaps one of the best audio experiences in gaming. Voice is superb, and really lend a 
 sense of humanity, and humility to them. Sound effects like explosions and gun shots sound real, 
 and viseral. Each have a unique property to them that really gives the game a great feeling. Tons 
 of screaming and yelling in the game, to radio chatter all when fighting, coupled with sounds effect 
 left and right, gives for an amazing audio experience, and a perfect example of the next generation 
 of sound. Despit what people say, sound is extremely important in a game... Music is good when 
 heard, but there isn't a lot of it sadly.
  
  Multiplayer - Now the meat and potatoes of the game. I'll say it right now... one of the best multiplayer 
 experiences in gaming. 40-man battles in large, epic maps are insanely fun, and do provide an ample 
 oppertunity for team play, which is required in a lot of the modes, like team deathmatch, and especially 
 Breach and Meltdown, two of the coolest modes. I'm sure a lot of you know about the modes, so I 
 won't explain them here, but they are fantastic. As you play ranked matches, you level up, and 
 can unlock different things for your character, along with a ton of stats to look at, and I mean 
 a ton... Anything you can think of, its probably there.
  
  You also get offline multiplayer, with up to four people splitscreen, and two player co-op, which 
 is fantastic. The game actually gets harder with another player, so that is always welcome, and 
 a great thing. Offline, its the same as online, but with four people.
  
  Matchmaking is awesome, and really does a good job of matching you up with approriate people. One 
 of the best aspects to multiplayer, is that is NEVER LAGS AT ALL... EVER! I've never once in my 
 entire time playing online in 40 person matches, or smaller, seen a hitch in the framerate or lag. 
 Amazing. I could go on and on about multiplayer, but I think you get the idea... ITS ONE OF THE 
 BEST, and it SHOULD NOT BE MISSED... PERIOD! Its sad this wasn't given the attention is deserves. 
 Far better than most online experiences of any console, and yes, that game...
  
  Story - This game has a great story. You are Sgt. Nathan Hale, or the US Rangers. You are sent 
 in to stop the Chimera, in a time where WWII never happened, but your squad is wiped out, and killed. 
 You, however, are not. The Chimera, and race on unknown orgin has emerged from Russia, laying waste 
 to absolutely everything in its path. After you go missing, its up to you to show yourself again, 
 and retake Great Britian, and drive the Chimera back. Good luck.
  
  That is the story, and thats just the small bit of it. Its a great story, and breath of fresh air 
 in the FPS genre. If you want even more story, head to Insomniacs Resistance website, and you'll 
 get a ton of great info and backstory. Wonderful job on a great story Insomniac. Not like your 
 average alien shooter...
  
  Value - After you beat the game, you unlock some new weapons, and even some of the great Insomniac 
 unlockables and humour, which is always a bonus. Multiplayer can last forever, and is extremely 
 fun and lasting. Single player is worth a replay on hard mode, for a severe challenge. Amazing 
 game, and yes, its a killer app... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eldertaco
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:10 pm PT
Review:  This was actually my first FPS game. I got it when I got my ps3 honestly because I saw that it 
 had a great rating and It was on sale. I had played halo and Goldeneye but never really cared for 
 the first person shooting games enough to actually purchase one. I gave it a wirl and I was imideately 
 drawn in. I loved RTFOM. Just like ratchet and clank I love the variety of weapons and I loved 
 the story. I played through Call of Duty 4 again because I am binging before I go back to school. 
 I decided to play Resistance again and I enjoyed it just as much as the first time. I forgot how 
 much I love the Hetchhogg and the gas granade!!!! And the Ai is amazing and keeps things interesting. 
 I think I enjoyed it more than CofD 4 because of the weapons and great controls. To each thier 
 own but most FPS feel a lot alike but this still endures as one of the best. I am even more excited 
 for the sequel that will be coming out this fall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, Resistance is an excellent shooter, it has a great foe in the Chimera who are 
 a great looking and smart nemesis to fight, it has some awesome weapons, a fun multiplayer, decent 
 replay value, good graphics and a cool dark story. These factors put this shooter, no doubt up 
 there with the best of them, especially when it comes to console shooters. Although despite this, 
 it doesnt do anything that seasoned fps fans havent done in a game before and it stops it from 
 reaching in my opinion the level of games like half life, crysis and many other classics.
  
  That said, the game is done incredibly well and doesnt have any real flaws. Every PS3 owner 
 who likes shooters owes it to themself to get this game and even if you get the feeling that something 
 is missing that stops it from being truly great, it wont stop you from having a blast. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  The graphics give you the feel of old dirty and by war plagued surroundings. You play as an American 
 soldier on the British islands. The Chimeran has invaded and you are the sole survivor of your 
 unit. You join forces with the british and almost singlehandedly beat the invaders. 
  
  The origin of these "aliens" are somewhat uncertain. They have lived within Russia and lately begun 
 to spread throughout Europe. Your mission is to stop the spread. 
  
  You meet up with some british soldiers along th way but they just exist alongside you. You can 
 not command them or anything. So it's a very ordinary fps in that respect. There are a variety 
 of weapons and grenades that you can use along the way. 
  
  The multiplayer is good. You can access a game server from the in game menu and connect with other 
 players to play death matches, team death matches, conversion, catch the flag and other options. 
 You can customize the multiplayer game a lot so you can decide the rules of engagement. I think 
 multiplayer is the strong part of the game. There are also two map packs released for purchase 
 and you can buy them directly through the in game menu. 
  
  If you want a fun singleplayer campaign and good multiplayer this is actually a good choice of 
 game. I can recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangoslayer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing and I think that PS3 really needed this game to help them stay in competition 
 with XBOX 360. First of all, its graphics are shocking and the sound is really nice. Like when 
 u shoot a bullseye it really does make a noise like how it looks. Its a game that takes place in 
 the 50's just like call of duty, and in my opinion its just as good if not, better. Leave it to 
 Insomniac to create extremely creative weapons just like Rachet and Clank. For example, all the 
 weapons have an alternate fire which makes them do special things. Like the Fareye, when you use 
 its alternate fire it slows down time making it so that you can easily pick off your enemies with 
 split second headshots within the time period of your time slow down.
  
  Bottom Line:
  
  I am going to have to compare this with Rock Band, even if they are two completely different 
 games. I rated Rock Band a 9.5 and this a 9.0 ONLY because Rock Band is a new, fresh, and fun game. 
 Resistance's graphics KILLLLLLLL Rock Bands graphics any day. Its pretty much like comparing the 
 wii's virtual fun and the PS3's (and XBOX 360's) enhancing graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judas-savior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  Resistance whilst not offering anything to originally or much to the genre have combined some of 
 the best elements from most generic shooters and made a game which exciting, intriguing and is 
 well worth playing.
  
  Graphics/presentation:
  
  The graphics and presentation of Resistance is solid, believable and immersive which in the end 
 has produced some outstanding visuals on most fronts. The characters and style found with in the 
 game has its own original touch to it and in the end there is not much that can be faulted in this 
 area.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay of Resistance was exilerating, exciting and never let you rest for a minute. The game 
 combined the best gameplay elements of many other corridor shooters and perfected them on most 
 fronts and was able to prove that the six-axis was quite suited for FPS's which left every aspect 
 of the gameplay working in the games advantage. 
  
  The game did offer a co-op mode which worked well as the game had some impressive AI and with a 
 second person onboard made the game much more exciting but unfortunately this feature off-line 
 only and did not let you play co-op with your friends online.
  
  Plot/Story:
  
  It was good to be involved in a story which made you feel like you were playing in reality yet 
 keeping that alien/sci fi touch balanced and exciting. The story over all was quite decent although 
 the character development was extremely shallow which let the game down in the end as you had no 
 real reason to fight besides to just kill the bad guys and save the world which is unoriginality 
 in its truest form.
  
  Sound:
  
  The sound in Resistance was flawless in most area's and provided exciting music scores, great voice 
 acting and SFX which were perfectly suited to the levels, weapons and the players interaction with 
 the environment.
  
  Value/Tilt:
  
  Whilst the game did not offer much originality it did offer some solid game play with some of the 
 best AI seen in shooters to date and with the addition of a co-op mode, even if it is local only 
 it did make the game that much more exciting and added replay value.
  
  The game also offered an exciting online multi-player mode which was quite popular upon the games 
 release which left many people playing long after the completion of the campaign which leaves me 
 to say this game has plenty to offer whether you are looking for an interesting story to play through 
 or an exciting multi-player and will satisfy the needs of most shooter fans and is not one to be 
 missed by any PS3 owner and will leave many of us eagerly awaiting the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RichardMurphy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 6:25 am PT
Review:  Now it seems the market is rife with first Person shooters, picking the good from the bad is essential 
 to keep the genre fresh. Inventiveness and creativity are terms not traditionally selected when 
 talking about the first person shooter, and why would it? It might get in the way of the rootin' 
 shootin' action. However with the standard set very high by the likes of Halo 3 and BioShock, the 
 current generation of Shoot-em-ups need a bit more than a run-shoot-repeat mechanic; the real question 
 is how to implement this change and not move the genre away from it's roots. This must have been 
 a principle question for the team setting out to create a first person shooter as a launch title 
 for Sony's new hardware. And their answer?
  
  'Let's not bother!'
  
  Yes, Insomniac has stuck with what they know sells and created a solid but uninspired game about 
 shooting aliens in the '50s. As with many launch titles pretty graphics and recognisable gameplay 
 have won the day, but punishing Insomniac for not pushing the genre forward is too harsh as what 
 they have created is a fun, slightly repetitive, handsome piece of software. The plot revolves 
 around an alternate past where The Second World War never quite happened and a strange plague has 
 infected most of Russia turning the population into angry mutant/aliens with a grudge against you 
 and your allies. The Characters are fairly rudimentary ranging from the strong, silent lead who 
 lets his brooding nature do the talking to the attractive and ever so British female intelligence 
 agent, who is for ever whispering in your ear to watch out because you might be walking into a 
 trap! All present and correct here.
  
  The combat, which makes up the bulk of the game (being a shooter and all) is far better when set 
 in a tighter environment. Creeping through a deserted installation with only your torch for guidance 
 reveals itself much more rewarding than a pitched battle against your foe with allies providing 
 support. This is all down to the A. I of the NPCs not really being up to the standard of Resistance's 
 contemporaries. Battles can be fought as many ways as you want but the lack of variation with the 
 level configuration or the lack of creativity shown from the enemy's thinking lead to the best 
 solution being at the rear of the battle taking pot shots with your rifle. It is when the combat 
 takes a more focused approach that it becomes much more intense and tight. Luckily these environments 
 are not in short supply and far outweigh the pitched battle set pieces. 
  
  The weapon set is as creative as you'd imagine from the creators of Ratchet & Clank. The creators 
 have found great pleasure in stretching the ragdoll physics to it's realistic boundaries by giving 
 the player a range of weaponry that can destroy a squad of enemies in the blink of an eye. The 
 highlight of this range for me had to be the sniper rifle whose secondary function is a deep focus, 
 which can slow down time for a brief period leading to some split second headshots from some distance. 
 One issue I feel the creators could have looked at is the fact that after it has been found for 
 the first time, a weapon can be carried for the rest of the game. This I feel gave the player too 
 much freedom to just play the game the whole way through with their favourite gun instead of experimenting 
 and understanding the full use of the weapons available to them.
  
  Visually the game gets much better as it progresses. Interestingly the early levels are the poorest 
 in the game, the disappointing lack of variety within the set pieces is matched by the blandness 
 of the lighting and effects of the early levels. Just simple changes to the environment would have 
 set the northern towns apart, as opposed to them all blending into one. Making it rain, setting 
 it at night anything to create some nice effects to show off some Sony grunt would have done. It's 
 not until the last third of the game does the alien architecture come into play and the lushness 
 of the lighting and textures really come into play. A missed opportunity I feel. 
  
  Overall, and with many issues within the game, I feel it has been one missed opportunity after 
 another. The game has the scope to be huge, but never quite delivers on it's promise. The level 
 design and enemies have no sense of the epic invasion the opening sequence details. As a player 
 I never did feel over run with enemies nor did I feel I was out of my depth as the lead character 
 is reassuringly tough and capable. I never at any time witnessed an event the PS2 could not handle 
 be it level design or NPCs on the screen at once. Perhaps this was due to time constraints and 
 the pressure of releasing the game as a launch title. Even so the game is worth more than the sum 
 of its parts and I spent more time being delighted than disappointed. A good effort, but not a 
 classic. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: samasora
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game on the PS3 if not one of the best. It is a first person shooter like no other. 
 Before I never bought a first person shooter because they weren't that fun and interesting like 
 Call of Duty if you think that is a great game fine just don't disagree with this review because 
 of it. It is addictive and really fun trust me you can't go wrong on buying this game, its not 
 that long but not too short either, but the online play and skill points will take you a while 
 to complete this game fully.
  The sequel should come out towards the end of the year or the beginning of next year unfortunately 
 but their is an expansion coming in April!!! There are different forms of the enemy so you won't 
 be fighting the same enemy over and over like some games and their are 4 types of difficulties, 
 easy, normal, hard, and super human!!! The cooperative mode is awesome even more fun than the normal 
 mode unlike some games. The only bad thing is that there isn't cooperative mode on the online play 
 but this is a must buy game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdwhitby
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2008 2:33 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a truely fun game to play and unlike so many other fps has a reasonably long campaign 
 mode. The story is ok but the gameplay is awesome being able to carry all your guns at once makes 
 for great gameplay as you can in the middle of battle just pause and think which gun would be best 
 for the situation. the online is also good with good lobby systems that i've never had any problems 
 with. It has up to 32 players online at once which makes for some thrilling battles. there are 
 team deathmatch, deathmatch, capture the flag and zones. 
  
  so if your a ps3 owner i would seriously consider buying this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: korense
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Here's my first game Review ;)
  
  ok, so ill begin with the good stuff.
  
  when i first played the game, i noticed many good things on THE first level.
  - Decent AI
  
 - Amazing enviroments
  - I really liked the driving portion of the Somerset mission
  - the Death-Poses (the way that the dead bodies of your enemies are left in after you kill them) 
 are really well done, in other FPS's, after you kill and enemy, say throwing a grenade at their 
 feet, after the grenade explodes, the body just flops to the ground, it doesn't going flying, while 
 if you throw a grenade at the feet of a chimera, then the chimera will ACTUALLY go flying.
  - Weapon, Enemy, Ally, and Vehicle designs were really well done; theres nothing beter than looking 
 at the ugly visage of a dead chimeran hybrid before deciding to empty a full clip of rifle ammo 
 into it's body.
  - LOT'S of enemies to kill
  - Online play is amazing, it's really nice to link your my-playstation account to myresistance. net, 
 so that way when you rank up in the night, then you will be able to go to school and bring it up 
 on the site, and then you can brag about it to all your friends.
  - Lot's of online chracter customizations can be unlocked, specially all the cloven gear can be 
 unlocked for free by registering on MyResistance. net, you can SCARE the crap outta all the other 
 online players dressed as a bloody looking zombie.
  
  Now, there were only a few things that i had problems with.
  
  - the allied AI was really crappy, 
 I always call them meat bags. it felt like instead of having a squad of decently trained allies 
 covering your behind, you have a squad of mentally impaired bozo's that barely even know how to 
 fire a gun, much less fight Chimera.
  - there weren't enough vehicle missions, but the ones that were there were actually quite good.
 
  
  now, i only have one big suggestion i would like for Insomniac to put into a free downloadable 
 update for the online portion of Resistance. Insomniac should create a few free maps in the form 
 of a download. these maps should be large and have the ability to allow players to walk around 
 and shoot at eachother like there's no tommorow, but then you would be able to enter vehicles so 
 that they can quickly traverse the large enviroments, like say driving a jeep over large sand-dunes 
 to reach the enemy base. now, for vehicles, i would suggest alowing human team members have access 
 to a few light tanks, lot's of jeeps, a few motorcycle's, 3 v-tols, and as an added bonus, instead 
 of using ropes to drop troops into the battlefield, why not have human players use parachutes to 
 drop into battle. the chimera team will have access to a couple stalkers, a single weaker-version 
 of the Goliath ( it would be completly unfair to allow the chirmeran team access to such a huge 
 advantage) and maybe a few speeder bike-ish vehicles. and also, why not allow players the ability 
 to customize your appearance as a chimera when playing online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartanquail57
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  This is by far one of the best First Person Shooter's I've played to date, it has smart AI, gorgeous 
 graphics, and fun long levels, that give quite the challenge at times. The story is really good, 
 but leaves a lot out, maybe a little too much out. It has a nice selection of really cool weapons, 
 and a great online play with Co-Op which makes it better. The online multiplayer itself is really 
 fun it has a whooping 40 player match! Which is amazing in my opinion, another cool thing about 
 online, is you can be either a soldier, OR a Cameron which is really cool, especially since you 
 get different abilities depending on which one you choose, this game is worth the 60$ and I suggest 
 you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aaron1224
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is an awesome FPS. It has great gameplay oppurtunities and a great multiplayer. 
 Resistance also offers a great campaign mode, awesome graphics, excellent sound, great in game 
 weapons, and offers hours of fun gaming. It also offers great online play which is awesome. Resistance 
 is a little far fetched, but hey it's a video game. The game also has an excellent story line which 
 offers great entertainment during the game. In Resistance you play as Nathan Hale, an American 
 soldier fighting the chimera which is the experimental Russian Virus. You go through multiple boards 
 blasting the enemy away which is what i think makes a great FPS. Resistance: Fall of Man is a game 
 I think everyone should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man for the Playstation 3
  
  Good- Awesome graphics, smooth controls, Online up to 32 people!
  
  Bad- Storyline isn't as 
 smooth as it could been, Online connection wasn't the best for me
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 Normally shooters just suck, but with the ps3 controller its hard to say the aiming 
 to the moving around it all felt really smooth and nice to play. From loading times, to cut scenes 
 everything was perfect in time wise. Large selection of weapons, some of them felt kinda pointless, 
 but they were there at least. 
  
  Graphics- 10/10 insane graphics no complaints here.
  
  Sound- 8/10 Most of the sounds were just awesome. I would of liked to see a bit of different 
 sounds of the chimera though, like different screaks or something, but overall it was awesome, 
 they just could of added a bit more. 
  
  Storyline- 6/10 The storyline was decent at first, but in the ending it just seemed not to wrapped 
 up, at least the ending looked like a sequel to come. 
  
  Extra's and Reply Value 10/10- Theres three difficulties in single player mode and all the reply 
 goes into the free online of up to 32 players at once in different battles. So to get the full 
 depth of this game you need online.
  
  Overall 93/100 for a total of 9.5/10 
  If you have online I say get this game right away, as thats what makes it the best, if not well 
 its still worth the purchase you just won't experience the full depth of the game without it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zebu9
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is the best looking launch title to date. People should be comparing it 
 to Perfect Dark Zero rather then gears of war as it is a launch title. It does not do anything 
 that hasn't been done before but it whatever it does it does it well. Visually the game is great 
 when played on an HD TV. It has some excellent look character models along with meduim to large 
 scale environments.
  The storyline is decent & the game is of fair length. The gameplay is good and the control seemed 
 to be more responses. I hardly saw any framerate issue. Enemy AI is normal, its not too good, and 
 its not too bad, its not as good as fear but I think its good enough for an enjoyable experience. 
 Anyone who like first person shooters must play this game, it is one of the best first person shooters 
 that is available on the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Assassinslay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man in my opinion is an excellent 1st person shooter.
  It ports everything that's great in an fps and almost perfects it. 
  
  
  Story: The story 
 of Resistance fall of man is instead of WWII happening it's replaced as an race or species called 
 the chimera invading all of Russia and most of england. 
  
  Game play: The game play is awesome in this game. Typical FPS fun! for most of the game you'll 
 be running and gunning but it does an nice job with pausing that with driving or machine maneuvering 
 missions. So it never really gets Repetitive.
  
  Graphics: One of the best looking Playstation 3 games I've ever seen. The environment is flushed 
 out and the textures oozes realistic. 
  
  Sound: Makes it really seem as if your in battle yourself. Excellent sound the guns sounds realistic 
 and even the sound when you reload is Top Notch!
  
  Replayability: This game has decent replayability. You can unlock skill points and find intelligence 
 folders through out the level. It really not alot that you'll be wanting to come back though
  
  
  PROS: Great Graphics, Gameplay and Story
  
  Cons: Mediocre Replayability
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jcoffiel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Playing Resistance FOM is absolutely intense. Sound is incredible, visuals are awesome, and it 
 is technically perfect. But there is a drawback that I have been finding with some PS3 titles, 
 and that is multiplayer modes. For example RFOM is great for playing offline multiplayer with buddies, 
 and playing online multiplayer with buddies. So, why can't you play online multiplayer with your 
 buddies in split screen? This was available in the original KillZone for PS2, is it ridiculous 
 to expect that from the PS3? Slightly off topic, but MotorStorm has no offline multiplayer at all? 
 Come On! I love my PS3 don't get me wrong, but I think Sony really needs to put it's foot down 
 with these developers and tell them to make the games with all the features included out of the 
 box. I don't want to DL a patch (that takes forever on my Wi-fi) . $60 a game and less features 
 than a last gen game, no way! I will gladly accept the offline multiplayer patches for these games 
 as I am seriously addicted to them now. But, from here on in I would like a full set of multiplayer 
 features. And, don't get me started with Virtua Fighter with no online play at all for the PS3, 
 but full support for the 360. Is Sony shooting itself in the foot? Is Microsoft paying companies 
 to ruin the PS3 versions of games? What is the deal? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyusMaximus
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a very addictive game with great online play! To me, this game is a must have if 
 you own a PS3! It has a great story and gameplay! You play as Nathan Hale, a soldier that gets 
 infected by an unknown, alien virus. As Hale, you must fight the war and resist against the virus 
 in you! An added bonus is the outstanding online play! THIS GAME HAS THE BEST ONLINE SYSTEM OUT 
 OF ALL PS3 GAMES!!! You are able to customize your own soldier and rise your way through different 
 soldier ranks! You can also join clans and talk to many friends! Along with the online play, the 
 campaign is awesome! It provides a great story line and awesome levels! It also provides a great 
 story as if WWII never took place and a virus/alien attack occurred instead! If you are a FPS fan 
 and you own a PS3, you must get this game! It is an instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  
  Resistance starts off slow, but as you progress through the game it gets better and better it just 
 didn't make a good first impression on the first levels it made me feel like it was another typical 
 first person shooter with a world war feel to it. 
  Interesting enemy characters they are all unique and they can definitely be part of a video game 
 franchise, but none of the Chimera stands out from the rest like one to three could've have been 
 the major characters besides Nathan Hale and his buddies. I guess in the sequel the characters 
 will become more developed because this is just the begining of something that will last a long 
 time. Resistance is the PlayStation 3s number one franchise they need to push this franchise like 
 crazy to make the future sequels the best they can be I can't wait to find out more about the Chimera 
 invasion. One memorable experience from the game is when I got to pilot one of the Crawlers which 
 is the Chimera army's version of a tank with four legs. That was very fun and that needs to continue 
 in the next game. Once the DualShock 3 comes out in the U. S. I will definitely replay Fall of Man 
 because I always wanted to experience the game with rumble. This is a great game play it if you 
 like FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoneyBags80403
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is the very first game that I bought for the the PS3 and I purchased it around 9 months 
 ago, and it is still highly addictive. The use of new weapons including the Auger (ability to shoot 
 through walls) , bullseye (ability for bullets to follow to enemy) , arc charger (ability to hop 
 from enemy to enemy) , and much much more. Everything used in this game except for some of the game 
 modes, is completey last year. Other from that fact, this game is a solid FPS. Although there is 
 one more thing, sometimes your bullets will not go across the map completely. There are also many 
 pluses and minuses for playing eith Chimera or Human. One can crouch and run forever, the other 
 can see through wall and is more powerful, can guess which one uses which? OK but back to the point, 
 Resistance is very fun. I hope this has persuaded you to buy this game because it is a but for 
 sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scynt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Resistance is one of the PS3's launch titles and, most likely, the best of them. It is easily one 
 of the top FPS experiences on the PS3, after COD4 and UT3 and if you play FPS games and own a PS3, 
 you must own this game. It does not add anything fancy to the FPS style of gameplay; you run around, 
 you shoot anything you see with various guns that isn't human, you'll have some limited help from 
 other people around you, and occasionally there will be some more difficult enemies that you need 
 to use more complex tactics to defeat. However, while the game uses this tired FPS formally that 
 has been used many-a-time before, it does it without failing to make any of them work well in the 
 game, and you come out with a game that is just plain fun to play. The game's story is well-written, 
 the guns are nice and diverse with tight design and controls, the AI is good, and the enemies you'll 
 meet are diverse in looks and tactics. 
  
  The story is your basic you are the hero that must save the world story. There is a nice twist 
 to it that is somewhat refreshing to see. We have seen hundreds of FPS games the last couple generations 
 that have you fighting off aliens to save the world, and hundreds more that have you fighting in 
 WWII. Well, someone finally had the idea to combine the two. "What if the world was at peace after 
 WWI and aliens came to Earth into an isolationist Russia and began to take over around the time 
 of WWII?" That's the basic premise. Aliens landed in Siberia at a time associated with the Tungusta 
 Event, and eventually the Chimera spilled into other countries and the Chimeran virus begins to 
 spread across the region. Many people are killed in the chaos, but some that contract the virus 
 change into alien monsters. Cue you, Nathan Hale. An American soldier sent over with a squad into 
 Europe as one of many to help fight the Chimeran threat before it leaves Europe. As the game continues 
 you learn much about the Chimera and your character Nathan Hale, as plot twists and turns keep 
 the story fresh.
  
  The graphics of Resistance are great, but not enough to blow you away even this early in the current 
 generation. Everything is rendered well, the Chimera and other soldiers all look quite good and 
 various things like dust, lighting, and water are well-rendered. However, in-game cutscenes have 
 somewhat odd looking mouth movements that could have been done better. In addition bullet marks 
 are rather non-existant. Shoot the ground, a wall, or something similar and only sometimes will 
 a bullet hole be left. And if one is left it will only appear as a rather bland dark circle and 
 will vanish relatively quickly. Aside from that, the only problems with the graphics are they lack 
 the overall "prettiness" of more recent games like Call of Duty 4, Halo 3, and UT3.
  
  Sound in the game is well-done. The background music is quiet and slightly haunting to help propel 
 the feel of the game. Gun-fire all sounds like it should and laser fire sounds like one may expect 
 it to. The Chimera sounds that you can hear sometimes when they are nearby are rather unnerving 
 and sound quite feral, all culminating to a rather immersive audio experience.
  
  But graphics, sound, and story can't hold a game on its own, it need gameplay to go with it. Resistance, 
 one could say, is wonderfully average in this respect. As stated before, it does nothing that would 
 make the user stare in awe as they've never seen anything like it before, but everything they have 
 seen before in this game is done as well here as they have seen it anywhere else if not better. 
 The first of two important gameplay elements in any FPS is the enemies. You will come across many 
 varied enemies in this game. At the start you will be introduced to the normal foot-soldiers you 
 will be dealing with throughout the game. They all carry machine gun-like weapons that use laser 
 ammuntion. These guys, for being the first creatures you encounter, are actually quite crafty and 
 will vary their tactics quite a bit. If you are close enough to them they will charge you as they 
 fire, meeleing you with their weapons if they get close enough. If there is cover near-by and you 
 are approaching, they may decide to fire at you while backing up towards the cover, using it to 
 hide from your fire, and they will use it quite effectively. You will also encounter soldiers with 
 other weapons, some soldiers with no weapons that will walk or run at you and leap at you while 
 trying to bite in and you'll have to shake them off. Others you will come across are large, feral 
 beasts that run around on 4 legs and that will charge at you even while being shot and leap onto 
 you to try and rip you apart, giant monsters that fire rockets, large mechanical enemies with multiple 
 types of armament, as well as small, multi-legged creatures that attack in swarms.
  
  There are various guns you will find such as the required machine gun, both normal and an alien 
 version that fires lasers, sniper rifle, a gun called an auger that fires through walls and other 
 cover, shotguns, rocket launchers, and more. Each gun has a normal fire mode and a special mode. 
 The Carbine will fire a grenade shot, the auger puts up a shield in front of you, the alien machine 
 gun places a target on an enemy so that all bullets no matter what direction they are fired from, 
 will hit that enemy for a short time, etc. You will also get some grenades, like frag grenades 
 and hedgehogs, which fire sharp spikes out in all directions when they explode.
  
  Beyond single-player, there is also a multiplayer component. The offline isn't much, 4-player deathmatch 
 with no ability to add bots. However, the online is amazing. You can have varying amounts of people 
 playing: 8, 16, or 32. Those are just the limits though, less can play if not enough sign up to 
 fill the game to its limit. There are multiple game types to play such as deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and conversion. In any of the games you will be assigned a species, either human, The Cloven, or 
 Chimera. If you are human or The Cloven, you will have radar and can crouch. Chimera cannot crouch 
 and don't have the same radar, but can go into a mode where there movement speeds up and the difference 
 between humans and Chimera are differentiated by one being illuminated in bright purple. The levels 
 are all well-designed with good sniping positions, open areas, blind corners burned out cars and 
 bunkers for cover and such to maximize the need for tactics. The levels are also not too big or 
 too small, so that you are not spending half the level looking for someone to shoot at, but you 
 aren't so cramped that you get blown away every time you spawn. There are also ranked and unranked 
 servers, so, if you are newer to the game you can play with other lower-level players so that the 
 game is more even and you don't find yourself getting your head blown off every ten seconds.
  
  All-in-all, Resistance in not a game to go out and buy a PS3 for, it is not a system seller. 
 But if you have a PS3 or are getting one for other games, this is a must-have for your library 
 provided you like FPSs. The single-player will keep you entertained throughout with its well-done 
 story along with its great controls and enemies and the online will provide you with a wonderful 
 multiplayer experience that will keep you coming back again and again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minglis
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, Resistance is an excellent shooter, it has a great foe in the Chimera who are 
 a great looking and smart nemesis to fight, it has some awesome weapons, a fun multiplayer, decent 
 replay value, good graphics and a cool dark story. These factors put this shooter, no doubt up 
 there with the best of them, especially when it comes to console shooters. Although despite this, 
 it doesnt do anything that seasoned fps fans havent done in a game before and it stops it from 
 reaching in my opinion the level of games like half life, crysis and many other classics.
  
  That said, the game is done incredibly well and doesnt have any real flaws. Every PS3 owner 
 who likes shooters owes it to themself to get this game and even if you get the feeling that something 
 is missing that stops it from being truly great, it wont stop you from having a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  .. but nothing more than that. This game doesn't bring anything new into the world of gaming. It 
 is basically as unoriginal as a game can get. As seen before, most notably in the Half-Life franchise, 
 it is a game about shooting a whole lot of monster. Human like aliens as well as smaller crawling 
 monsters (literally) trying to get "in your face". This can be done in fairly interesting ways 
 however, because of the many different weapons you get to try out during the game!
  
  It is, however, a very fun game. The graphics are O. K (not especially great, but not bad either) 
 and the storyline is interesting enough to keep the excitement up during the campaign mode. There 
 are also some unlockable secrets and (even more interesting) skill points to acquire which makes 
 it all worth playing.
  
  The multiplayer is also worth mentioning, as that probably is the games biggest success. As with 
 the rest of the game, it doesn't add anything new to the world of gaming, but there are a lot of 
 different modes to play (deathmatch, capture the flag, team play etc.) , either with your friends 
 and/or over the PS-network.
  
  Added up it is a shoot-em up worth playing, because it IS a lot of fun, but don't expect to be 
 overwhelmed by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I just want to start off by saying this is probably one of the best games i have EVER played in 
 my whole life... right next to Final Fantasy 7!!! On sale ar launch and probably the PS3's best 
 game as of right now, Resistance is one of those games that have a solid Story mode and one addicting 
 online multiplayer let me tell you! 
  
  In begins in 1951 at what should have been WW2... creatures have been created in Russia and are 
 killing off every human being thorughout Asia and heading straight for Europe. These creatures 
 are known as the chimera. The United Kingdom thinks they may have enough defenses to hold off the 
 chimera, but are dead wrong! Issuing a state of emergency, USA comes to aid Britain in the battle 
 for humanity. You play as an American Bad A#% of few words, known as Nathan Hale. Throughout the 
 story, new monsters unfold, as well as weapons, history, and secrets. mixed n with some Resident 
 Evil kind of surprise flanking and straight up action, Nathan soon finds him and his troops ambushed 
 and become infected. Howvwer he doesn't die, but his troops do!
  
  Various Related weapons found in Halo resemble some found in Resistance. Such as the M5A2 Carbine 
 (smg) , Shotgun, Sniper, and frags, but newly introduced weapons that shoot through walls and provide 
 shields, called Augers, Spike grenades, flame mines, and an enemy main weapon called the Bullseye 
 will make you wanna go Scarface on some Alien a%@ for a very long time. All of these weapons have 
 secondarys like a tracker, shield, rocket, or slowing down time for a head shot! There are also 
 levels where you play as a tank!
  
  The story lasts quite a long time, but when thats done and over with the real fun comes playin 
 online! I can honestly say i have spent over 2 days of non stop CTF and Team Deathmatch. You can 
 choose either the humans or chimera and its just as fun as the story, but i often find myself going 
 back thorugh the story just to play a level. Hit me up if you wanna play! 
  This game is just great in so many ways!!!
  
  Smooth controls, solid story, new weapons, vehicles, 
 and a highly addictive online experience... make this a no brainer to buy for the PS3!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man. Such a great FPS. yea yea whatever, Halo3 is better blah blah blah that's 
 what everyone is gonna say about my review. I don't give a damn. But resistance can sure deliver 
 a great FPS experience. The online is extremely well put together and even the single player mode 
 can satisfy. A great story is also put into this WWll atmosphere, changing up the historical events 
 with a twist of alienlike domination over mankind. This was the first best game for the ps3 when 
 it came out. sure you are probably just playing COD4 right now and that's fine, but if you did 
 like COD4 or ... ugh ** HALO. Then get this game if you don't already have it. I have to say it 
 is pretty unique for a FPS game. And it's made by insomniac, the makers of the Ratchet and Clank 
 series. So there is sure to be some crazy ass and unique weapons, i can assure you that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonyGameHolder7
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  R: FoM was the first FPS I played and it was a great introduction to the genre. It manages to create 
 a great atmosphere to kill of the ugly looking Chimera. It has a nice build up of difficulty, although 
 they throw you into the fire immediately, without any tutorial at all.
  
  The enemies are smart, something that can't be said of your teammates, who stand in your way more 
 often than not. The Chimera also come in a lot of different varieties, although you won't run into 
 any other enemies than Chimeran lifeforms, opposite to the variety of enemies in Half-Life 2 for 
 example. 
  
  The same thing can be said of the setting, which features some changes, but not a whole lot (especially 
 not inside one level) . The atmosphere is great and really gives you the feeling of a battle against 
 all odds. The weapons in the game are great and the Ratchet and Clank influences are immediately 
 noticeable. Weapons as the Bullseye and Arc Charger are well thought out weapons which makes R: FoM 
 less general.
  
  Because although it's good, very good what R: FoM does, it's not very original (save for earlier 
 mentioned things) and if you've played a lot of FPS games, this is not gonna surprise you like 
 the Gravity Gun or something. Regardless, R: FoM is an outstanding game, a mist buy for any PS3 
 owner, even if you haven't played any (or little) FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Morzan7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 23, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  The BEST first person shooter out there so far. It's so much fun annihilating these creatures. 
 It really is a great game. Worth the money. Here are the pros and cons.
  
  Pros
  +awesome storyline
  +insane weapons (such as the Auger, a weapon that shoots through walls, or 
 the fun to use rotary cannon)
  +the enemies are fun to shoot. There are so many different kinds of them. You can also mess with 
 the air tank on their back.
  +amazing graphics. The guns look cool, the people look cool, and the enemies look even better. 
 Never freezes my Playstation 3.
  +great sound, the chimeran creatures growl menacingly, and the voice acting is cool.
  +Co-op 
 is fun. Makes it easier.
  +online multiplayer looks really good.
  
  Cons
  -it has a pretty hard difficulty.
  -you will get a little frustrated
  
  All in all, Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is a must-buy for the Playstation 3. It is definitely worth the money. Superb.
  
  Graphics - 10, Gameplay - 10, Sound - 10, Replay Value - 9, Tilt - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coffey85
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  The game is very popular on the PS3 evenmore since it usually comes as part of the PS3 bundle deals 
 with motorstorm. 
  
  To start with the graphics are good and they are fluid no glitches are anything, weaponry detail 
 and everything is presented nicely, especialy on the jeep missions where there is large landscape 
 all being viewed at once. 
  
  The story. The story is well done and is clear to follow and it has nice cut scenes which all fit 
 together with the gameplay. Your a soldier who is somehow immune to the virus and defend the uk. 
 
  
  Gameplay. the gameplay is good and varies, the weapons are the best thing about the game because 
 each weapon has a secondary fire option which will usually make killing the enemy way easier, the 
 sniper rifle and auger are the favorites for me because the sniper rifle can go in slow motion 
 and the auger can fire through cover. Each enemy has a specific characteristics which you will 
 figure out as you play the game, for example some only able to be killed by a weak spot or by explosives. 
 The scenery of the levels are always changing aswel making the game more un-repetitive and fitting 
 with the different areas of the story. 
  
  Online. The best part about the game for definate. There is always people online to play against. 
 During online you can customize your character, unlock ranks, medals, extra solider outfits. You 
 can create and customize matches or quickly enter a ranked team deathmatch, deathmatch or objective 
 which all offer good entertainment which will last for ages. To get to top rank it takes ages!!! 
 you will have to play atleast over 1000 matches. You can also enter or create clans. When playing 
 online you play as the humans or the Chimera which both have their advantages, the humans tend 
 to be better for the objective games because they can sprint without overheating like the chimera 
 and you can see everyone, but the chimera can see through walls and are equipt with a better weapon, 
 both characters are great to play. 
  
  Overall i would recommend the game to everyone because online never ends and its an orignal for 
 the ps3 plus there is a sequel coming out which looks to be good so you will need to play this 
 one to know what all the next one is about. Plus you can buy the game cheap now or it comes free 
 with ps3 consoles 
  
  Gaphics 8
  Sound 10
  Gameplay 9 
  Online 9.4
  Value 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoF1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  First I have to tell you something:
  This is the best fps I've played yet. If you have a PS3 and you don't have this game you have to 
 buy it.
  If you don't have it there's only two possibilities:
  You don't know this game or you don't have a PS3.
  The game is an alternative world war 2, where 
 you play as Nathan Hale, an American soldier, and you have to exterminate all chimeras (monsters 
 created by Russians) .
  I think Insomniac Games will do Resistance: FOM 2 because the end of campaign mode is asking for 
 a realy final.
  The game has very good presentation. I think Insomniac Games did a good job.
  It has a very good 
 gameplay for a fps. The history lasts 10 hours, but if you can play online, I think you will not 
 resist and you will play much more hours.
  A must buy for everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdmatt
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2007 8:31 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man is a based when creatures called the 'Chimera' attempt to take over Europe. 
 You are Nathan Hale and you must rid Europe of the Chimera at all costs, but defeating the Chimera 
 isn't as easy as it sounds
  
  
  Presentation: Everything on this game looks great, from stylish menus to nice looking set-ups and 
 profiles in Multiplayer.
  
  
  Graphics: Here is where I was very impressed, everything has backbreaking amounts of detail in 
 it, every gun look outstanding, the Chimera look fantastic (well obviously there faces don't but) , 
 your fellow soldiers are very detailed from top to bottom, buildings are incredibly detailed, you 
 can even shoot or hit the windows and it looks very detailed and realistic, every last detail put 
 into the surroundings make it look fantastic. Resistance Fall Of Man has some of the best graphics 
 I have ever seen.
  
  
  Sound: The sound is also quite impressive with very realistic gun shots, moving and walking sound 
 ever so realistic, the voice acting is very good throughout the entire game and the Chimera make 
 weird but cool noises. Resistance has fantastic sound throughout the whole game including Multiplayer, 
 which makes it feel like it would if the Chimera really did invade Europe.
  
  
  Gameplay: Another strong point in Resistance is the Gameplay, with slaughtering the Chimera incredibly 
 fun. But at times during the game it can get, well frustrating and can make Singleplayer less 
 enjoyable. I would have liked to see the game help the player out if he/she was struggling by eliminating 
 some of the Chimera or by providing more guns and ammo, that alone would have made it a more enjoyable 
 experience for all players. But don't let that fool you, Resistance is still very fun and it gives 
 you so many ways to kill the Chimera from riddling them full of bullets, blowing their head off 
 with the sniper rifle or just blowing them up with help them the good old Rocket Launcher. And 
 if Singleplayer isn't enough, the action continues in Multiplayer, but this time your not killing 
 Chimera, you are slaughtering people from all over the world fun! In the end Resistance is an 
 incredibly fun game all the way through Single and Multiplayer and it will keep you coming back 
 for more :D
  
  
  Lasting Appeal: Singleplayer is fairly lengthy with it taking quite a long time to complete the 
 main story, but if that isn't enough, why not slaughter people all over the world in Multiplayer. 
 With Singleplayer being lengthy, Multiplayer incredibly fun with lots to do, you will want to keep 
 coming back to what one day may be described as the game that started the PS3.
  
  
  Overall: With awesome graphics, nice looking menus, lengthy Singleplayer and the ever so addictive 
 Multiplayer, Resistance Fall Of Man is a must get for any FPS fans out there .
  
  Presentation: 9.0
  Graphics: 9.0
  Sound: 9.0
  Gameplay: 9.0
  Lasting Appeal: 9.5
  Overall: 
 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Attention... my English s*cks... 
  
  The game doesn't take more than 10 hours to finish if you are a good FPS player...
  
  I've 
 finished the game in normal mode, and hard mode (in campaign I only beat the game in normal, the 
 hard mode I've finished in cooperative mode!) , and I'm still with guts to play in Superhuman mode!
 
  
  The game...:
  - The musics don't stuck you to the game... but they're usual in this type of games... The game 
 needs musics like this to scare you when something moves even though it isn't a a chimera... 
 
  - The movies are artistic but not very attractive. When you play the second time you don't want 
 to see them again...
  - The fact of not being able to use the mouse and the keyboard is a bit frustrating (but this is 
 PS3 not some computer game...) 
  - It's a good thing they keep updating the game via net...
  
  In the campaign and cooperative 
 mode...:
  - The game has some good and creative weapons (ratchet style) which is good! It makes the game 
 unic! 
  - The fact of unlocking new weapons makes you want to play the game to the end for a second time!
 
  - The skill points are almost impossible to get... in Ratchet Deadlock game the skill points were 
 explained... 
  - The story is impressive: the types of chimera, their technology, ...
  - The games scares you a lot of times and it is even more exciting when you have to shake the controller 
 to get rid of some chimera that jumps to you from a dark alley or something...
  - I was hunting down some glitches that you can only detect in the cooperative mode, such as: some 
 chimera just appear in the space, or disappear... (this one isn't very important...)
  - The details are impressive (breaking glass, and lamps) , they make the game one of the best for 
 the PS3!
  
  In the Multiplayer mode...:
  - You have to play with more haste if you want to beat the other players in the Internet!
  - 
 It's cool to be able to run faster.
  - The rage mode with the chimera characters is cool and creepy at the same time.
  
  I guess 
 it's all...
  hope you liked it!
  THX INSOMNIAC FOR MAKING SUCH GOOD GAMES!!!
  
  This is your host: Naughtydogmania :lol: :P
  Cya on the next review ;)
  
  PLZ comment my 
 review at:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/naughtydogmania/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25258786
  
 
  (one of my blog posts...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man Review by Simon.
  
  Introduction:
  When the Russians closed their borders, we feared they were developing a weapon of unparalleled 
 power. The truth was far worse
  Without warning, the Chimera attacked from the east, and in just two month, Europe fell.
  And 
 as the Chimera hunted down the remaining survivor, the last resistance fighter rose up from the 
 ruins of Great Britain.
  Never underestimate humanity's will to survive. ------------------------------ 
  
  Good Points: 
 The visuals  Great 1st person shooter feel  World War with a scene of horror  Great sound effect 
  Highly addictive. ------------------------------ 
  
  Bad Points: Story is a bit weak  Character's are not memorable. 
  ------------------------------ 
 
  
  Plot: 7/10 Good - The year is 1951. We are being attacked by an unknown alien race. We fight to 
 survive. That's pretty much it. Kind of like an alternative to WWII. What if this happened instead? 
 ------------------------------ 
  
  Graphics: 9/10 Great  Great graphics that stays true to the PS3. 
  ------------------------------ 
 
  
  Game-Play: 8/10 Great - I'm not really a fan of 1st person shooter on consol games. I prefer the 
 PC for 1st person shooter but Resistance: Fall of Man is surprisingly good. The 1st person shooter 
 feel on the controller is great. You have a host of WW weapons as well as alien weapons to fight 
 with. One minute you're in the middle of an intense battle and the next you're walking down a hallway 
 not knowing if something is going to jump out. Awesome. ------------------------------ 
  
  Sound Effects: 8/10 Good - The sound effect is very good. 
  ------------------------------
 
  
  My Say: 9/10 Great game - Yes Resistance: Fall of Man is very good. I didn't think I would like 
 it, but it is very well done. And very addictive. It's the sort of game that will make you think 
 "Oh I really want to play Resistance: Fall of Man." If you like 1st person shooter games that is. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGitsZAL
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 5:50 am PT
Review:  This game was the first I played on my PS3. Its story mode was fun and I wanted to know what happens 
 in the end. The ending is kind of a clich but its still put in a good way. Lots of weapons to 
 unlock and use against lots of forms of Chimera from the common Hybrids to the dominating Angels. 
 It does get kind of repetitive killing Hybrids because they'll come up for most of the game. It's 
 a pretty long campaign but that makes playing time better and roughs you up for multiplayer which 
 is, I think, the main factor of this game.
  
  The multiplayer mode is not new but not bad either. It's actually one of the best multiplayers 
 I've ever played and the constant updates keep improving the game. The ranks are fun to achieve 
 and the medals you can gain are tricky to get, making you try hard in the multiplayer games to 
 get them. There are the classic multiplayer modes, deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture the 
 flag but they have thrown in some new ones aswell. Assault, Conversion, Team Conversion, Meltdown 
 and Breach. Breach is probably the most tactical one of the lot and the most fun for me, but all 
 these modes are great to play. If you're a hardcore FPS fan, you'd probably stick with this until 
 you get Supreme Commander 3 Pips, which can take a while. The buddy and clan system is very good. 
 I thought it was a nice idea and makes it a lot easier to find your friends and easily join into 
 the game they are playing, also makes clan wars a lot easier, especially as you can make private 
 games.
  
  All in all, this game is a must have for the PS3, the multiplayer will keep you attracted for a 
 few months and the campaign's long enough and has replay value for people who don't have an online 
 connection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luissays123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 1:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun to play. The levels are easy if you put it on easy, hard if you put it on hard. 
 The storyline makes a lot of sense and it is not one of those types of games that just gives you 
 a story and you have to understand it or you don't get the game al all. Any way you start as a 
 U. S solider and you get infected with the cimeria virus. You have the power to heal and do other 
 stuff. The online is the best. It is almost like halo for the ps3. It is really good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 12, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  I like this game based mostly on the fact that the AI are smarter than most games. These AI actually 
 shoot, run, hide, and sneak up on you. -- Where as other games AI just standing there and shooting 
 at you while your're shooting at it. The graphics are great in this game -- it's a BD after all.
 
  There is one weapon that I wish they had designed it differently. The missle launcher where you 
 can guide the missle. They said guide, but you can only guide it to the extent of your vision on 
 the tv. I wish they had made it like the one in Perfect Dark, where you have the eye view of the 
 missle and guide it around the hall or wherever you want it to go.
  
  It was a fun game to play, but still not as fun as the Nintendo 64's Perfect Dark. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slayerking131
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  If you love fps, then you must get this game. The concept isnt the most original, but throws a 
 twist into the story line. The campaign is about 15-20 hours. The replay value is great to, because 
 once you beat it once, you can play through it again and unlock weapons you never got to use. Plus 
 the online play is A+. With up to 40 players, (i believe thats the most we've ever seen in a fps) 
 and things like clans, and in game messages, its great. Depending on who you are in an online game 
 you get different abilitys. Humans get radars telling them wear foes and and friends are, plus 
 you get unlimited sprint. It your a Chimeran creature you get to "suspend your kooling system" 
 for a limited time, which alows you to apply more damage, sprint, and see heat through walls (you 
 can see both humans and Chimera) but only for about 15 seconds, then you must cool off for about 
 the same time otherwise you will lose health, other wise you can keep turning it on and off as 
 much as possible. The other cool features include the use of the sixaxis. In online play when someone 
 uses a flame thrower on you (of course) you catch on fire, you then must shake the controller up 
 and down to cool off. This makes you more imerssed in the game and helps you to really feel like 
 your in the battle.
  
  Pros: Great gameplay, Excellent Campaign, Excellent Online play, use of sixaxis, fair creativity, 
 Great physics and destructable environment, no framerate problems, Excellent AI.
  
  Cons: Graphics are ok but are not jaw-dropping. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redt_man
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 11, 2007 9:38 am PT
Review:  Ok this game is def a must own regardless of w/e neone says... ya ive had it for a while butim 
 still playing it ppl.... and u ask Y? prob bc its only the best shooter out next to call of duty 
 4 and unreal... come on, everything in this game rocks and the ai on the game is pretty darn good 
 if you set the difficulty all the way up.... the graphics are AMAZING on an hdtv and the levels 
 arent drawn out too long to where you get bored from doing the same old same old... ya dont get 
 me wrong all you do is shoot crap the whole game, but, thats what all shooters are and this one 
 does a darn good job of doin it and does very "pretty-ly" lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doom15490
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  First and foremost let me say the storyline was great, with a crummy ending, (to set up for the 
 next game I would assume) but the RE type viral type infection with a war of the worlds kinda twist 
 was cool, additionally the setting being in the 1950's was a nice thought, I did not like the fact 
 on the 2nd play through you did not start the game with all the weapons, (awwwww) which makes subsequent 
 play through exactly the same as the first with a couple of exceptions you find a few new weapons 
 on the way, I did like the first person, not bad and the variety of weapons was good, graphics 
 outstanding and game controls just right, all in all I would have to give this game a solid 7 on 
 my scale, and hopefully on the next release we have corrected our mistakes.
  The AI of the enemy was good and actually surprising as they did have a intelligence to them and 
 that made it fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair-of-Acre
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 9:24 am PT
Review:  A brilliant Game, and probably the best launch title for the Playstation 3.
  It combines old school FPS with horror gaming.
  While the's no puzzles like other horror games,
 
  it gives its own unique atmosphere and one you'll not soon forget.
  Besides the fantastic gameplay, weapons and multiplayer (onlien up to 40 players!) it also shows 
 greatly why PS3 graphics are better than Xbox360. Every little rock, every little weapon is combined 
 in this long FPS that sets a threat of a disease that turns people into grotesque creatures known 
 as the Chimera. In all, it kicks Halo 3's ass!
  
  Graphics=10
  Sound=8
  Gameplay=8
  Lifespan=7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hip-hop-cola2
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 3:37 am PT
Review:  resistance: fall of man. It's easy to sum up the game in one small comparison. Medal of honour 
 with crazy guns. The game is its guns. The pure variety and originality is stunning. If you can 
 imagine a weapon doing it R: fom has it.
  The single player campaign is what you would expect, run and gun, duck for cover, etc. the controls 
 and gameplay are almost identical to medal of honour but don't expect a dull, obviously scripted 
 single player. The game is a mix of fps style with corridor battles and open battles. It's never 
 highly open and everything is pretty linear, but flanking can be quite important. The maps (at 
 times) are brilliantly designed to give the player the feeling there in a battle field, here the 
 game comes to life as your not the only man against the aliens. Saving your men's life's can be 
 vital as drawing the chimera fire away from you allows you to flank them. There's a great enjoyment 
 to be had after sprinting over there lines to simply gun down hordes, while their shooting your 
 team mates.
  The multiplayer is another success where even the worst of player can get kills. The ranking system 
 is very rewarding with equipment and ranks to be won. It's also very well balanced.
  The con to resistance is of course its generic style, the guns alone can't help veteran fps players 
 feeling a little bored. Regardless, the game deserves to be seen for the unique fire arms alone.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jam96h
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  resistance: fall of man is the best first person shooter I've played in a long time. the graphics 
 are very good and so is the story. when playing the single player game you have a choice of easy, medium 
 and hard difficulties and after you have finished hard the difficulty super human is unlocked. 
 if you get bored of single or co-op mode there is always the extremely fun and addictive online 
 multiplayer mode which has a variety of different games E. G. death match, team death match, breach, capture 
 the flag and many more. on unranked mode you can create your own game but there is no point because 
 no one ever joins. the online part does over shadow the campaign mode though you will probably 
 play online more. this an excellent game and if you haven't already got it go out and buy it as 
 soon as possible!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play this game online very long simply because I rented the game, so I will let others 
 with more experience address that. However the single player story mode was incredible. First I'll 
 add that I played the entire game in split screen with my friend, and it was awesome. So if you 
 and a friend want to play a great game together without losing vital parts of the story/experience, 
 definetly consider Resistance: Fall of Man. The game is fast pace, and needless to say beautiful 
 visually. You can't compare it to many games out there, but I would say if you've every played 
 half-life, then you will really enjoy this game. The controls are simple, and the learning curve 
 is like 20 minutes tops. Depending on what difficulty you select, it is easy to get on a roll in 
 this game. What I mean is once you start understanding the controls and the overall feel for the 
 game, you start blasting through crowds of aliens like a half back running through a defensive 
 line of 250 pound football players. This is not to say the game is repetitive, but allows for the 
 gamer to experience the "I am unstoppable feel". If this isn't your taste, bump the difficulty 
 up and you will find yourself begging for cover when spotting just one bad guy. You can't go wrong 
 with this game because its got a great single player mode, and from what I hear, a great online 
 mode as well. I'd say rent this game to beat the story, and if you like the online portion, you 
 can always spend the 60 bucs to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Themanzjii
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:56 am PT
Review:  Ready to wage war against the Chimera? Ready to mow down hundreds of Chimeran creatures in Superhuman 
 mode?
  
  Running at 720p in HD, Resistance: Fall of Man presents you with some of the finest FPS action 
 the PS3 has seen... Nathan Hale is who you play, a quiet soldier of the US Rangers that came to 
 England not knowing what or who he would face...
  
  The Chimeran creatures are variable and have many different species that you will find.. From leapers 
 to angels and hybrids you will have plenty of these creatures to shoot down with the wide variety 
 of weapons presented. Auger rifle shots can pierce through walls or Lark rocket shots can be moved 
 while in motion, but the most reliable weapons will be the Carbine and the Bullseye, the weapons 
 with the most ammo available.
  
  Fall of Man kicks in the some vehicles such as tanks, stalkers or jeeps... All of them can be used 
 in the game's co-op offline mode that will add up long hours of game playing alongside 3 friends... 
 It features a multiplayer mode that will allow you to play the Chimeran side with all their abilities 
 and advantages or unlock skills and new costumes to wear online. 
  
  The game's story is quite different from any other game with some twists alongside like some soldiers 
 who can resist the Chimeran infection or the X-ray soldiers that appear dead in the ground with 
 some useful grenades or new weapons. It is advisable to collect all the Intel Documents scattered 
 through the game to see some useful information that will only deepen the story even more. 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the best, greatest games for the PS3 that will leave us all 
 begging for Resistance 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite29
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2007 11:48 pm PT
Review:  When the PS3 launched, it didn't have the most impressive lineup to go along with it. The one title 
 that I kept hearing great things about from everyone was 'Resistance: Fall Of Man'. Being a huge 
 fan of the FPS genre, I was dying to get my hands on this game. Now after purchasing my PS3, I 
 finally get my chance. And while this game doesn't revolutionize or change the way we play games 
 in any way, it's still a very fun FPS that any fan of the genre (and owns a PS3) should definately 
 check out.
  
  The game takes place in an alternative universe where WWII is actually fought against an alien 
 race known as the 'Chimera'. Yes we have seen too many WWII shooters lately. And yes tossing some 
 aliens into a FPS is even less original than the WWII setting, but somehow R: FOM manages to avoid 
 feeling stale. The storyline won't keep you coming back for more all on it's own, but it will definately 
 keep you interested up till the end.
  
  What does a great launch title supposed to do along with being fun to play? It's supposed to show 
 off the power of the hardware that's inside that expensive piece of gaming equipment you just bought. 
 R: FOM does that just fine. It certainly doesn't push the PS3 to it's limits, but the game looks 
 very nice and everything has a smooth/clean look to it. The game definately looks great & is at 
 least one game you can show off to your buddies as being a cool looking title for your PS3.
  
  The game itself really doesn't bring much new to the table in the gameplay dept. Most of what 
 you have seen here, you have seen in other games. The weapons are all pretty nice, but what else 
 would you expect from developer Insomniac? Other than that, however, the game plays just like many 
 other FPS titles out there. The difference is that R: FOM has very high production values, is a 
 high-quality game, and it's just fun to play. This is not some crappy rush-job just to get it out 
 the door for the PS3 launch. Even the full featured online multi-player surprised me. It's usually 
 the type of thing reserved for XBox Live games for the 360.
  
  If you own a PS3, you should own Resistance: Fall Of Man. It's really as simple as that. The only 
 reason you shouldn't own this game is if you really don't like the FPS genre and you hate fun games. 
 Otherwise, quit wasting your time and go out and get the game already! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksman2200
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  
  Pros: great story, online play very fun 
  Cons: Difficulty goes up and down in campaign
  
  Nathan Hale: Chimeras Worst Fear
  Now what's 
 an fps without a big strapping nearly un-killable main character. That character is Sergeant Nathan 
 Hale of the US Army Rangers 1st Regiment. Now you don't start off all super powerful. At first 
 your just a regular old Army grunt sent into York, Britain to help the English fight off the Chimerian 
 threat. Now, compared to the other soldiers you fight with... your Stephen Hawking. The soldier 
 AI is extremely dumb-witted not to mention they die with a single shot from a enemy Bullseye. You 
 gain your healing ability after the first level. This ability does help if you're shot. You have 
 4 bars of health; if one of your bars is gone you can get it back by finding a small yellow container. 
 If you lose a partial bar, you can get it back automatically if you find cover and not get hit 
 for a few seconds.
  
  This is my Rifle, this is my gun
  Now following the setting of the game you start of with a old school rifle. But this is an alternate 
 time-line so there are changes. The game gives you a M5A2 Carbine, which is a machine gun. This 
 gun you will find very useful and end up using it all throughout the game. This gun also comes 
 with a bottom mounted 40mm grenade launcher. This can hold only 3 and is very useful for clearing 
 crowds. Then what's the fun of fighting aliens without using alien technology. You first get to 
 use this in the first level when you pick up the Bullseye. This weapon fires energy shots of course. 
 This weapon also has tags, which latch onto a enemy and allows you to fire to the same spot every 
 time. The list continues with very interesting weapons you collect and even unlock after you complete 
 campaign for the first time. You have to remember that this game is developed by the same people 
 that developed Ratchet and Clank, so weapon development has become natural to these guys. The list 
 differs from a shotgun to a flame thrower to a organic mine launcher. The creativity never stops.
 
  
  I think you need a bigger gun
  Now the Chimeras come in different shapes and sizes. From the Leapers and Rollers to Stalkers and 
 Widowmakers. The difficulties of these enemies differ. The small Leapers, Rollers, and Menials 
 can easily be taken out with a shotgun blast. The Hybrids and their relatives can be easily taken 
 out with a few shots from the M5A2 or Bullseye. Then you have the bigger guys. They Auger Masters 
 are like Hybrids but bigger and more dangerous. They are easily taken out with a Fareye or a grenade. 
 The Gray Jacks are big, tall and ugly. The easiest way to deal with these is to use a shotgun or 
 a single Fareye shot to the head. Howlers are like the guard dogs for the Chimera. If you happen 
 to get a lot of shotgun ammo, there is a good chance you might have a Howler fight ahead of you. 
 You should have no worry, a quick 2 double shotgun blasts will take care of it. The next 3 you 
 will wish to have a nuke to fight these guys. You have the Stalker which take a lot of ammo to 
 defeat if you don't have a Lark. If you can get behind it, shoot the power core. It will cause 
 it to stop for a few seconds and allow you to take advantage. The best weapon to use for this enemy 
 is to use a M5A2, also make sure you have some 40mm grenades when you're going to fight it. Then 
 you have Widowmakers. These are the most annoying enemies you can face. You only have to face these 
 twice on foot, which is a good thing. If you have a Lark, use it. Then if you run out of ammo, 
 use a air-fuel grenade. It should take it out. The Angels are the main enemy of the game. You face 
 a few of these in the last level. The best tactic for these is to use a Bullseye, tag and fire.
 
  
  In conclusion, this is one launch game worth a good look at. The single player campaign is nice 
 and lengthy while the online play will keep you occupied after you finish. Then you have the difficulty 
 of completing certain tasks in order to receive skill points which will unlock things to use to 
 customize your character in online play.
  
  Online action
  This game has a good campaign, but a better online experience. There is a good variety of online 
 modes. I must note that not all weapons found in the campaign are usable online. From I have played 
 myself you can expect a lot of swearing in some games and none what so ever in others. You should 
 also expect a few campers with a sniper rifle but that's about it. Team Death-match is a great 
 mode for beginners to start in as you have other players helping you out. Once you get more accustomed 
 to the gameplay, you can go into Capture the Flag, Meltdown, Assault, and regular old everyone 
 on everyone death-matches. The game features a rank system that allows you to compare yourself 
 to others. With each rank you gain you gain more customization options for your character. Then 
 there is the medal system which works off the ribbon system. You can get ribbons for different 
 things like killing a flag carrier, melee kill, stealth kill, head-shots and so on. After getting 
 so many ribbons you might obtain a medal. Medals are more of a self accomplishment than a comparison 
 one.
  
  Written by Joe Duke/ Marksman2200; Date: Dec. 4, 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ng2006
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  I haven't been on console games very much and FOM is the first game I played on PS3.
  At first look it looks just another WWII shooter (And basically it is.) but it brings a new material 
 into this genre. It dates those days but this time you're not going to shoot down those poor German 
 soldiers. Instead some type of ugly creatures keep coming to your way. (Something like Return To 
 Castle Wolfenstein By IDSoftware) It's a squad-based game so that you won't feel alone while fighting 
 with those Smart Hard-@$$ horrible things. During to game you'll receive new weapons and you may 
 drive things like Tank. As far as I noticed the whole story happens in UK (The only European country 
 which resists creatures) 
  Graphic detail is amazing. Everything was imaged highly detailed in order to look real. They made 
 great job of sound too. You feel the envnmnt and the battle all happening near you. As I said it's 
 a squad-based and also a tactical shooter. Sometimes you'll be given a chance to study the situation 
 before engaging right through it.
  FOM is not something which after you finished it you think to yourself that you've wasted your 
 money just on another WWII shooter. It changed my whole mind about consoles especially PlayStation. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delta4062
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:05 am PT
Review:  the game is set in the 1950s wer WWI and WWII never happened but a strange and mysterious virus 
 infects europe and its your job to take it back. the games set over 3 days going over the england 
 starting from york to london. the graphics are good for a ps3 game and even better on a HDTV. the 
 sound is amazing from the sounds of your comrades in a heated fight to the strange noises in eerie 
 environments. the gameplay is solid exactly wat you wuld expect from a FPS the guns are amazing 
 from the augers that drills through walls to the hedghog grenades witch shoots out spikes very 
 good inf you through behind the enmeys cover. the multiplayer is where the game really shines theres 
 ranked matches wer you you gain experience points and level up witch unlocks new outfits accerories 
 and more for your soldier. custom games is wer you can set things from ammo to how many weapons 
 you spawn with but the custom mathces are plagued by 1 hit kills matches witch are really annoying. so 
 if you hav a ps3 and dont own resistance go out and buy it now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clyde_smith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  i flipping loved this game it pwned and multiplayer was the best. i really enjoyed playing this 
 game, all the great aspects of a good fps. this game had every thing a great story line with multiple 
 reasons for replay, and leaves it wide open for sequels which there will be two of and i am pumped 
 for. the multiplayer in this game also was so fun i played it for hours. the main reason was the 
 diversity and strategy in every level, also there was multiple game types including deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, ctf, meltdown, breach, and conversion. one final reason why multiplayer was so 
 fun was because of the 40 people able to play on a map, and how massive each map was to accommodate 
 for this. in short this game pwns the official JACOB scale gives it a nine point five out of ten 
 and every fps fan with a ps3 should have it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tyfon_Gump
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  This game although very fun didn't do anything amazingly original. It had great gameplay, pretty 
 good controls, fun realistic weapons that make sense to exist (this could be a good or bad thing 
 depending on one's opinion) , a good original storyline that sets it up for multiple games in the 
 series, not bad online play. Overall the game could use a little work in some aspects but has enough 
 to keep you playing. I hope they improve everything in the next installment and build more around 
 the characters and add new enemies etc. Either way Insomniac is still cranking out plenty of good 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Great! A decent first person shooter for the PS3 on launch day. Resistance: fall of man combines 
 WWII action in with a bit a sci-fi to create what probably was the best launch game for the PS3.
 
  You take the role of American, Nathan Hale, as he tries to, pretty much, help the British stop 
 a race of aliens, known as the Chimera, from taking over the planet. Of course there's a slight 
 twist to the tale. After an accident on one of his missions he gained some of the abilities of 
 the chimera. This gives him improved stamina and the ability to recover health over time.
  That's pretty much the storyline for the game but what about the game play itself? Well it's a 
 pretty standard FPS. About 50% of the game is running in guns blazing, but the other half is taking 
 cover and taking the enemies out tactically, so it's a good mix. As far as guns go there were enough 
 to keep me satisfied. The first time you play through it you collect 8 guns and a few types of 
 grenade, but on the second time you play through it more guns become available for you to find, 
 but to be honest the campaign game is that long and repetitive unless you're a great lover of FPSs 
 you probably won't want to play through it again for a while, that is if you manage to play through 
 it the first time without getting bored. To be honest the constant running from start to finish 
 of each mission, killing everything in you way, with the odd mission where you get to drive a tank 
 or a jeep can get a little tedious, and the inventive alien guns end up being the main reason for 
 playing the game, along with playing it for the point of getting through it and getting your moneys 
 worth out of it.
  As far as the graphics go, they are pretty good but definitely not up to the PS3s true potential, 
 but one of the major aspects of the game is the online multiplayer. This allows you to play with 
 up to 39 other players from around the world at the same time in a shoot 'em up free for all, team 
 deathmatch and many other classic multiplayer games as well as a few new ones. As you play the 
 multiplayer the maps become familiar from the campaign mode, but only 8 of the weapons and 3 of 
 the grenades are available for multiplayer. Of course you are able to play multiplayer offline, 
 but because no bots are available for you to play against alone or with a friend it seems kind 
 of pointless since most of the maps are built for 16+ players. Without the online multiplayer i'd 
 feel there would be a pretty big hole left in the game and would probably not rate it anywhere 
 near as well as I have.
  Overall it has a decent but tedious single player mode with a good solid online multiplayer mode 
 but if you are not able to go online with your PS3 or you don't particularly care for online games 
 then I'd probably rent this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackps3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is a good first person shooter based on a character called nathan hale. 
 his job is to help the english and american army slay the alien opposition (chimera) the game has 
 a range of guns varying from machine guns to alien prototypes along with ome devious grenades. 
 the chimera are ugly lucking and dying to kill anything in there path. the levels are based in 
 england places like manchester and nottingham are amongst the many levels. all in all this a very 
 good game apart from it been easy. the games creaters insomniac have tried very hard to make this 
 game enjoyable and action packed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarecrow_br
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  I have to confess, I'm not a big fan of first person shooters. I can stand games like Resident 
 Evil 4 which is not exactly a first person but never liked other first person shooters. 
  
  Despite this, I decided to buy Resistance because of the story it tells (which I consider intriguing 
 when I first read) and because, at that time, the PS3 did not offer many good games to be bought.
 
  
  That being said I have to make my second confession; I liked the game a lot. 
  
  The story that I first thought was intriguing is a great idea but really bad developed into the 
 game. However, the game is fun to play, it sucks you in until the end, it has a good replay value 
 since you can play the whole game with the weapons you collected through your first adventure and 
 it has a really nice multiplayer platform.
  
  The graphics are OK, the sound is really nice, specially the sound of the traditional weapons and 
 the sounds on the surrounding (like the bullets hitting a car that you are using as a cover) and 
 the difficult level is just right there. Despite not being well developed during the game the story 
 does have its appeal.
  
  Even the non-realistic ability of carrying as much weapons as you find throughout the game without 
 any problems on how you can actually carry them is good because allows you to diversify the game 
 plan.
  
  The few situations in which you are grabbed by an enemy and it has to shake your sixaxis are also 
 good (because it does not happen a lot otherwise it would be really bad) .
  
  In summary, a game that is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:09 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a very good game. It's not the Halo-killer that many Sony fanatics claim it to be, 
 but it is certainly one of the better shooters out there for any platform. 
  
  The enemies are well developed and challenging. The weapons are unique and worth learning how to 
 use effectively. If you are in a situation in Resistance that you can't see to get past, odds are, 
 you are using the wrong weapon, or not utilizing the alternate fire features when you should.
 
  
  The level design is overall good, but gets a little bland during the middle third of the game. 
 Portions of the game played above ground, in various British cities are exciting and great to look 
 at. The final act of the game in the "Chimeran Tower" is very impressive. The game designers took 
 great care in crafting an impressive looking structure that require some creativity and skill to 
 navigate.
  
  The story in Resistance is what sets the game apart. While, the lead character, Hale, is not the 
 least bit engaging, (and could quite honestly, not return for Resistance 2, and not really be missed) , 
 the plot is interesting and I was anxious to find out how the story of this game resolved.
  
  Insomniac has once again shown that they are one of the more creative game studios, and they 
 take great care in crafting an engrossing game world that rewards those that play through to completion 
 (the game is rather long by today's standards (13+ hours) , but never seems to drag on) Resistance, 
 while by no means perfect, is certainly worth buying if you are a fan of shooters and own a PS3.
 
  
  There is also a rather well developer multiplayer community for extended enjoyment and replayability, 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jo_Dal92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  In my opinion this game has one of the best on-line gaming ever. Resistance got me when I started 
 playing multiplayer, I just couldn't stop playing, you will feel a desperate need of getting through 
 the ranks and unlock new things, it definitively sucks you up. The game has lot of unlock-ables 
 and trophies, a bunch of weapons variety and play modes. But its not only the multiplayer, its 
 also the campaign, its very addictive, and has its difficulty for every type of player, Superhuman 
 being the hardest one. 
  
  This game really deserves more than an 8.6 score. I really consider that this is one of the best 
 games of the PS3. Don't even rent it or borrow it from a friend, just buy it, its really worth 
 your 50$. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waveddiamond
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  well what can I say about Resistance, the game is set in the 1950's when the chimeran attacks human 
 kinds, building up a war as big as WWII. The story its pretty good, but the ending is kinds of 
 confusing leaving you with the hope of a ratter undeniable sequel. As graphis go Resistance really 
 doesn't do much to raise the bar, the ps3 has so much potential yet no game wants to push its limits 
 ???. The character models look really generic and they are not bound to stay in your head. Seargent 
 Hale is a cool character, but he lacks alot of depth hopefully for the future they will show a 
 much better side of him. The multiplayer is great from team deathmatch to breach. they are all 
 fun and highly addictive you will be playing this game for months maybe years Its a bit like The 
 darkness its your choice wether to be a human or the evil chimera. Overall, even though im going 
 to get burned for this, Resistance is a rather Generic game taking great elements from other great 
 FPS to create a fairly enjoyable game. Don't get me wrong the game is great and amongs the best 
 to ever hit the ps3 gaming console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenshinhimura16
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a game made by Insomniac, a developer best knowned for its high rating series Ratchet 
 and Clank. The game started with a simple idea, make a WWII game but change the story a bit. This 
 derived in a new game, situated in the 50s in a world that instead of having Hittler as the main 
 enemy, has a monster like race, called Chimeras. 
  At first, Chimeras appeared in Russia, then, they expanded, they conquered Europe in a matter of 
 months and were starting to invade Britain when the US goverment decided to send help. You, the 
 player, will control the US sergeant Nathan Hale, a baldy guy whose team is wiped in the first 
 mission of the game. 
  Your first encounter with the Chimeras is not a happy one, and you will notice that this game doesnt 
 go for the easy kills. In fact, most Chimeras take more shots than you would imagine to kill, making 
 the game more strategic in some sections. 
  Resistance also mixes features from previous FPS games and some new ones. You will see the power 
 of the PS3 with this game, not from the hand of graphics, which for a launch game are more than 
 fabulous, but from the hand of events. You will see lots of stuff going on, and lots of details 
 too. If this is your first Next-Gen game, you will be amazed by most of the stuff, especially the 
 glass effect of the windows, the way they break mostly.
  The weapons in Resistance at first seem generic, you have the usual rifle, the shotgun, the sniper 
 and the rocket launcher, but the innovation, and in what I would say a very good idea, comes from 
 the Chimeras weapons. Humans use the weapons we all know, but the Chimeras have all the candy. 
 From the basic Bullseye to the complex Auger. 
  Resistance campaign will take you more or less 12-15 hours to complete, more if you take into consideration 
 that in some of the last levels you will be dying more often too. But, Insomniac added some extra 
 stuff. As you progress through the game you will be able to unlock skill points, this skill points 
 could be related to Microsofts Achievements too. The Skill points will unlock extra stuff, as skins 
 for the online mode, artworks, movies and more. But skills is not the only thing you can unlock, 
 once that you finish the campaign, either in Solo or Co-op, you will unlock even more weapons, 
 some of them involve new gameplay techniques as the Divider. Also, another bonus when finishing 
 the game is the option to play the game on harder difficulties, beign the hardest Superhuman, which 
 is a real challenge.
  One of the most amazing stuff in the game, is the feeling you get of being overpowered by the Chimeras 
 all the time. You kill wave after wave after wave of Chimeras, yet they still come. Insomniac managed 
 to create a great war atmosphere in Resistance. You will feel fear of advancing, you will feel 
 that sometimes there is no way to continue, that youve reached your limit, specially when you 
 get to the later parts of the game, and you are counting every shot making sure that whatever comes 
 next wont kill you.
  An important thing to take notice of, is that if you are going to be playing the game in cooperative, 
 make sure that you will be able to work as a team. The cooperative is offline only, I will later 
 talk about the online features. Now, when playing in cooperative, you will notice that everything 
 in the enemies is different, the enemies are stronger and the ammo is running out fast. This is 
 due to the fact that Insomniac decided to increase the level of difficulty here, meaning that if 
 you played this in Normal on cooperative, it will equal Hard on Solo. 
  The effects of the game are amazing, from a great soundtrack that increases the atmosphere at certain 
 moments to a great use of sound effects. Now, the game is more like Resident Evil 4 here, and most 
 of the time you will miss the soundtrack due to the heavy SE sounds going on. But it all builds 
 and its amazing. Also, you will notice some things too, one of the features touted by Sony PR all 
 the time about Cell will be noticed here. Hedgehog grenades, which are some of the best weapon 
 in gaming hystory. If you fire one, you will see how each of the spikes detach from it as a nail 
 grenade. And you can use it even when you see more than 10 enemies on the screen, with clouds of 
 dust flying, firing all over the place and allied soldier fighting back with no slow down at all. 
 In fact, you will never notice slow downs in the game which is a real nice improvement over past 
 gens.
  Now, as for the online portion of the game, you will see that you have many
  modes, from classics as Capture the Flag, Team Deathmatch and Deathmatch to new ones, as Conversion 
 and Meltdown. The online is really well done, though its missing elements from services as XBL, 
 though they can be solved by a future patch, right now there is a new map pack, and the second 
 one is coming soon. 
  The most important feature of online comes from the lack of lag. Even if you have a slow internet 
 connection, I mean something greater than 256 kb. 
  Now, whats the most interesting feature while playing online is the feature to level up. Yes, as 
 if you were playing an RPG. You will win points from every time you kill someone, and with them 
 you will level up, you will also be able to see your development over the time, though if you are 
 a first comer, and you are not interested in creating a fake account to practice, then you will 
 have some really bad stats to begin with. 
  The last feature that we could remark about online, is the fact that you can customize your avatar. 
 An avatar is the character that other sees. You can unlock extra stuff by finishing the main campaign, 
 by obtaining a certain amount of skill points, by completing different difficulties. 
  But online wouldnt be complete without some other stuff. You will be able to use a headset, you 
 will have a system to find a ranked match for yourself, you only have to specify if you want a 
 deathmatch, team deathmatch of an objective based game. You will also have a list of unranked games, 
 which unlicke ranked games that are hosted by Sony/ Insomniac, the unranked games are hosted by 
 normal people.
  There is an option to play the online mode offline, for up to 4 players, but the lack of bots and 
 the size of the maps dont help it much, unless you have 4 controllers.
  All in all, Resistance is a great title, with lots of content to keep anyone happy for a long time. 
 The game also sports great gameplay, that will make you come back time after time. Though the story 
 could have been developed a little bit better, and given more information about some elements about 
 the back story, it was a great experience, specially if you are going to play it in cooperative. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tikiz
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man isn't the average world war II shooter, in Resistance, you play as Nathan 
 Hale, a socialy challenged soldier who survived a poison and is now extra creepy.
  
  Resistance has a great selection of weapons that all have different abilitys. There's the Auger 
 for example, that can shoot through walls or create a shield that only you can shoot through. There 
 are lot's of other weapons that you can pick up your second time through the game aswell.
  
  The gameplay in Resistance is the standard first person shooter gameplay... R1 to shoot, R2 
 to bring up your inventory, etc. The thing that makes Resistance stand out above the rest though, 
 is it's levels, that roam from malls to forests and have plenty of places to move around. You're 
 usually surounded by Chimera though so you'll be getting shot at the entire time. There's also 
 a eunique health system in the game, your health has about 4 different sections and if your health 
 get's past one section it will only regenerate to the point where that section starts. You can 
 pick up health that will fill up one section of your health. 
  
  Resistance has awesome multiplayer that is usually something you'll go to when you get frusturated 
 with the story. In multiplayer there is Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, Team Deathmatch, Meltdown 
 and a few others, but I've found that Deathmatch is the most fun game. This is probably where you'll 
 spend most of your time. Multiplayer also allows you to play as a chimera. There is ALSO a co-op 
 mode in the game that I'm yet to play.
  
  The graphics in gameplay might not be as pleasing to the eye as you would expect from Insomniac, 
 but they're ok for a game that came out so early. The cinematics have awesome graphics that are 
 fun to look at and might make you feel like you're actually there. (Which is good because that's 
 the goal) 
  
  Pros: Good graphics in cinematics. Great multiplayer. A wide selection of weapons. Simple yet immersive 
 gameplay. Chimeras have some cool abilitys. Interesting storyline. Lot's of interesting enviroments.
 
  
  Cons: Graphics in gameplay may not be as good as you might expect. Sometimes frusturating. Sometime's 
 you may feel like there are too many enemys shooting at you at once.
  
  Resistance is a great game that anyone with a PS3 should have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlazingEternity
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  When Insomniac Games went PS3 exclusive with its next title it was as much as a surprise as the 
 decision for Sony to publish it - in other words it always was going to happen. However, it was 
 perhaps not what many expected with Insomniac going down a much more mature route with an action 
 game designed for the adult market. Resistance: Fall of Man is the result and despite the fact 
 it's yet another first person shooter set in the world wars, it has enough to differentiate itself 
 to make it one of the better launch titles for the PAL market.
  
  During the alternative World War II, an alien like force invaded Europe and parts of Asia, using 
 the man power of the world and infected the armies with their alien poisons, turning them into 
 alien like creatures. You play as a young American soldier, sent to the front to take the aliens 
 on who becomes infected but strangely does not feel the effects. It is this man's job to infiltrate 
 the alien forces and take them out from the inside across the battlefield and inside makeshift 
 bases. Clich, but it allows you to focus on the action, which is very much a positive thing with 
 this game.
  
  Controlled via a first person perspective, the crux of the game is basically moving from A to B 
 shooting enemies, picking up health and generally doing what you expect in a typical console shooter. 
 However it never feels like just another generic shooter and the setting and AI are what achieves 
 this.
  
  If you thought that Medal of Honour had some intense fire fights, then R: FOM takes this to the 
 next level. At an almost constant rate you will hear large explosions and soldiers yelling while 
 you move through the levels, and in the sections where the only sound you can hear is the footsteps, 
 it feels eerie and you just know something is about to happen. This is how much the game can immerse 
 you.
  
  This is complimented by some advanced AI who will hunt you down. They won't chase you across an 
 entire map, but hiding in the corner or in another close room is not an option. The enemies also 
 react to sounds, so moving quietly can be a key factor to success. Of course though R: FOM never 
 really turns into a stealth type game, as the focus is very much on the action. There never really 
 is a point where the game takes you into a squad based combat level however and that is disappointing. 
 Recently games have focused on teams working together and this just seems a step backwards in that 
 'one man wins the war' mentality being put in the trash can.
  
  The other big feature of R: FOM is the online multiplayer. Sony has seen fit to setup localised 
 servers for this game and it really shows. Rather than host games on your system, it is hosted 
 by Sony allowing many players - up to forty - to connect into a server at once. Insomniac has also 
 promised extra content and has a lot of modes for you to choose from.
  
  The area which really shines with R: FOM is the graphics. 720P is the order of the day with some 
 of the most rich and lush graphics you are likely to see on the console in a launch game. The environments 
 are desolate places with destruction everywhere and while the game has a somewhat cartoon feel, 
 the visual style really helps the game immerse the player. Another standout is the way the story 
 plays out with a graphical novel and some impressive voice acting, in fact the voice acting is 
 of a high level throughout the entire game.
  
  R: FOM is a must have PS3 launch game and quite possibly the only one. Insomniac has really worked 
 hard to produce an atmospheric alternative shooter and that's exactly what they have done. The 
 single player lasts quite a while and even then you have the free multiplayer with more content 
 on the way. You simply must own this if you own a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OnlyCommonSense
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Probably the best thing that can be said about this is that thank go d they didn't try and force 
 it onto the PS2.
  Killzone showed what an absolute mess can be achieved when you try and code something the console 
 just can't handle.
  The easiest way to describe Resistance: Fall of Man is this Dull Brown Half-Life Wannabe.
  The 
 plot has been done to death countless times, most of them better than this, you are fighting as 
 a member of the Resistance against an alien army that has practically conquered the world.
  Like I said Half-Life wannabe.
  Trying to imitate Half-Life 2 is not necessarily a bad thing, 
 but to do it by removing all the WOW scenes from the original doesn't help, there are no stand 
 out moments to keep you interested and the colour scheme implemented just lulls you into sleep, 
 surely a few more colours could have been used?
  Sadly we'll no doubt see a sequel, buoyed by the large sales figures (well large for a PS3 game 
 anyway) but ignoring the small matter that there was little else available when most people bought 
 the game, and as shops more or less insisted that you bought your PS3 as part of a bundle, you 
 generally had little choice other than to have this tacked on to bump the price of the console 
 up.
  Hopefully R: FOM2 will try and introduce a few new game ideas rather than rip off one of the best 
 FPS's ever released sadly I doubt that very much.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer_XYZ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a First Person Shooter built exclusivly for the Playstation 3. You play 
 as Nathan Hale, An american sargeant sent to irradicate a strange, mutant race called the Chimera. 
 Though this sounds like its the near future, you are actually in the 1950's.
  The gameplay of the game lets you explore throughout England with straight forward gameplay. You 
 gather many guns throughout playing the game, all of which have primary and secondary fire. You 
 also have grenades, which you find more and more kinds of grenades as you play the game.
  The advantages of this game is the outstanding graphics which just proves the power of the PS3 
 compared to the Xbox 360. The Physics are excellent except for when you find a childs playground 
 and when you wide the slide, you have to do it backwards, by going up the ramp and slide down the 
 stairs. Thats not right. 
  The problems with this game are few but really do spoil it. There are visual glitches which include 
 chimera (the Mutant enemies) still standing up when you kill them, so that you think that they 
 are alive, so you end up wasing all your ammo on them. Also, you die so many times on them game 
 that if everytime you die, I earned a 1. I would be a Multi Billionaire.
  In conclusion, Resistance fall of man is a great gamewith a few minor hitches which can be lived 
 with, but make sure you are up to the challenge.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PowellCJ14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 25, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  As an early adopter of the PS3 (two months after it was released) , the first game I bought was 
 Resistance: Fall of Man. At that point, there was nothing else really out that I could not get 
 for PS2 or my PC. So, with nothing to lose (except some cash) , I plunged into it.
  
  Whenever I buy I game, I complete the single player before beginning the online part. As such, 
 I learn the game's mechanics, and I don't get spoiled by being exposed to everything at once online. 
 The single-player campaign is enjoyable overall, but nothing really exceptional. It will keep your 
 attention, but it's not the main force driving you to complete the game, if you even feel that. 
 The plot is interesting, with some underdeveloped characters, but what do you expect with games 
 these days. 
  
  At least its not another hash at a WWII Nazi killing shooter. The weapon selection is fantastic, 
 starting with standard rifles all the way up to advanced alien lock-on firearms. The vast selection 
 of weapons is one of R: FoM's best aspect. The variety allows for a lot of different play styles 
 and each gun can benefit you in certain situations throughout the game. 
  
  Graphically, the game is at the top for the first batch of next-generation games. Nobody expected 
 everything to be 1080p right out of the box, but 720p was better than what most of use had before. 
 It definitely satisfies, though... anyone who has played through the final parts in the snowing 
 levels will understand the wonderful art design and implementation that went into this game. By 
 no means stunning, it was sill a standard-setter for a while.
  
  Online is where the game really shines. Joining games couldn't be easier, and it tracks more stats 
 than you would ever need. Playing Chimera vs. Humans really makes you feel like you're in a battle 
 for the earth, even though you're talking to people through your headset. After I beat the game, 
 I spend at least 5 times online what I did in single player. I'm a perfectionist, so I try to get 
 all the medals and attire. That still leaves something to be desired, though, since it would require 
 loads of time. 
  
  Overall, Resistance is a solid title, good for any PS3 gamer and collection. If you do not plan 
 to go online, I would suggest renting first to make sure it's what you want. Otherwise, a good 
 exclusive that developers should build on to help the PS3 library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares_hot
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 25, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  Really nice looking graphics - The windows - Loads of weapons - Loads of challenging enemy types 
 - Nice vehicles - Good coop-mode
  The Bad:
  There isnt really no intresting characters - The "Angels" are way too easy - Somewhat colorless 
 enviroments
  
  Resistance: FOM is a FPS game that takes place in the 1950s in a alternative reality where WW2 
 never happend instead humanity have to fight a strange alien race called Chimera to survive. You 
 play as Hale, a seargent in the US army. You are sent to fight the war in England but you soon 
 find yourself alone. The game has a very high intensity with loads of chimeras you have to kill. 
 You have a very large weapon arsenal to your disposal but the weapons you probably will use most 
 are the standard auto-rifle and the chimerean weapon called bullseye. One intresting thing concerning 
 the weapons is that all of them have som kind of altenative fire, example the bullseye can "Tag" 
 enemies wich makes the tagged enemy a homing beacon for the shots fired from the bullseye and the 
 Sniper can slow down time giving you a big advantage. The game is created by insomniac and therefore 
 have some likenesses with the Ratchet and Clank series like skill points.
  
  There are several vehicles you are going to drive in R: FOM. The most entertaing one is the Stalker. 
 The Stalker is a chimearan walker (of course) with two machine guns and some sort of missile launcer. 
 It is highly mobile and highly destructive but it does get taken down pretty easily from behind. 
 They're pretty fun to drive but not to fight against.
  The game has a long play time and on the "Superhuman" difficulty will you die many times. The sounds 
 in this game are great. Howling chimearean dog-horse-things, Stealheads saying "You cant hide from 
 me" with scary voices, that's only a small selection of all the sounds. The graphics in this game 
 are beautiful, but most enviroments goes in a light-brownish tone and that's kinda bad. I can't 
 talk about the graphics without mentioning the windows, it is without a doubt the best looking 
 windows ever in a game. When you shoot at them they beatifully break apart bit for bit just like 
 a real window.
  The game play in this game is simply: Shot the enemy till it falls down or explodes! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brownthrilla
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This game is defiantly something. The story is pretty good too. However there are some things that 
 keeping it from being perfect. I understand this game was a launch title, but they could've made 
 the graphics a little better. Another thing that keeps this game from being a really good is the 
 story modes feel. At first the story seems a little questionable. However, the game starts to get 
 better. Unfortunately, the game ends up being very repetitive. The game gets really frustrating 
 at time, because some enemies are hard and it is boring at the same time. Something else that bothers 
 me is that the AI' s don't help much. This makes the game a solo game (for those who thought the 
 game would be like a Call of Duty game) . Lastly, the cover system could have been A LOT better. 
 Also, this game could've been better if it had a online co-op mode. Overall, the story mode is 
 dull.
  Along side this story is a massive online multiplayer. Up to40 people per game. Also, there is 
 a satisfying badge/medal system for doing certain things like getting headshots. 
  Overall, this game is good mainly for its multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mindtalker
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  First Of All The Review Will Talk About Some Points
  
  1. Graphics : The Graphics Aren't So New Gen Graphics But Well Done And Nicely Drawn And Presented 
 . The Framerates Are Steady All Over The Game Even During Intense Battles.
  
  2. Story : Very Addicting Story Keeps You In The Game , Also The Cinematics Are Very Important While 
 Playing This Game (About Showing How Nathan Hale Survived And What Happened To HIM!!!) . Maybe It's 
 Also About Attack From (Unknown) Creatures But Insomaniac Has Managed To Make It's Own Way.
  
  3. Gameplay : Horrible But Great !? (hihihi) I Mean It Has So Different Types Of Weapons Which 
 Helps When You Engage In A Huge Battles. Sadly Some Enemies Are Tougher Than You Expect But Good 
 Control Surpass This Problem But The Overall Of Gameplay Is Said To Be ( Love It But TAKECARE) .
 
  
  4. Multiplayer : Maybe This Point Isn't Described Alone But In R: FOM You Have To I Really Liked 
 The Co-operative More Than The Single Player Campian However I Wanted To Join GS Touranemt But 
 Sadly I'm Out Of USA.
  
  At The End I Have To Say That My Score Depend On What I Feel Cause Sometimes You Love A Game For 
 The Experience You Have Nothing But That. Maybe It's Not The Best FPS But One Of Best Classics Good 
 Gaming
  
  Mostafa (mindtalker) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2007 12:35 pm PT
Review:  (Timmy) "mummy, mummy, look, their are aliens outside the house with guns. 
  (Mum) "what have I told you about lies Timmy" 
  Isn't that just the norm, instead of world war 
 2 happening and we have to kill our own race, the russians (what a surprise) create a new race 
 of alien to try and recapture the world, but instead of this, the alien race become independant 
 and want to take over the world, as I said, it's all just the norm, sorry, I lied, this ain't the 
 norm, this is a fight for the survival of the human race against a pig ugly race of aliens. From 
 the start of the game, you realise that this is gonna be a pretty good game, and with a good arsenal 
 of guns to choose from, your bound to be kept entertained. The levels are well designed, and with 
 good graphics this game is an all round good game. Once you do start to get into the game though, 
 you do realise that thiis game does sometimes seem quite unfinished and unpolished, and with it 
 being set in 1940, it does sometimes seem a bit silly to include guns which haven't even been invented 
 in the present day, and proberly not for the next 30 years. Besides these factors, it is a solid 
 game, and with solid online play, this game is not far from being essential.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freebird8877
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Resistance is an amazing launch title that is under-rated on this site. The story is really cool, 
 the graphics are so smooth, and the online is the best on PS3. Firstly, I would like to state that 
 I've owned this game for a year, and have played it so much! Basically, this is an all-round great 
 game, and no PS3 should be without it. For being the first in its series, it accomplishes what 
 it does tremendously and anyone who says otherwise must give it a second chance. The story is pretty 
 long, and quite fun. Insomniac are a great bunch of developers, they really do know their stuff. 
 Kudos to them, by the way. If it weren't for this game, my PS3 would have been very lonely over 
 this past year. The multi-player setup is eveything I would expect in a good FPS. There is clans, 
 in-game buddy list, parties, game invite, huge maps, fast action, and lots of players! (40!) In 
 conclusion, Resistance: Fall of Man builds up a great story, and I can wait for RFOM 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SFFederation
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Resistence fall of man is a great start for the PS3. The story line of this game is awsome and 
 I like the humans and favorite are the chimare. The online mode is the best I've seen so far. I 
 like how you can play up to 40 People online and I like all the stages and add ons that the games 
 has. I also like the rank structure that the online mode has and one last thing that I like about 
 this game is all the difficult setting in the game and you get cool stuff if you beat it on a harder 
 diffucult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapel18
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a fine example of a fps on playstation. In my opinion its one of the best the playstation 
 systems have had. Then again i was never a big fps person on consoles until halo then i got my 
 ps3.
  
  I would definatly recommend this game to any ps3 owner. The story is a little weak but the gameplay 
 is great. It does a nice job mapping the controller functions and it just feels right. 
  
  Multiplayer kept this game a live though. With the two races, it gives it a little more depth than 
 halo's run and gun but has no where near the fanbase or players. No matter how much i like resistance 
 it its not as solid a multiplayer as halo... but right now its the closest ps3 has. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Leonhart_Boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  It got the best graphics 
  The best game-play - its really intuitive
  Good story - ive seen worse
  Multi-player - Its fun to play the game with other friends, but 
 it would be better if we could choose the servers we want to go!
  The best first person shooter... No Lie! Anyone should play..
  Its nice and fun, with a lot of 
 action a good story good:)
  If you have a ps3 you re looking for a good fps then you should try
  If you re looking for a 
 multiplayer lot of action, lot of people, then I recomend warhawk!
  Play it enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer-clemm
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  One of the greatest games ever released for the PlayStation3. I have to admit that I do not own 
 a PlayStation3, but I do play it any chance I get at my friend's house. It the perfect game! It's 
 got the awesome graphics, the good sound and an excellent storyline.
  
  Resistance Fall of Man take place in a grim alternate reality in which WWII never really happened, 
 but something perhaps even worse happens instead. As political tensions run very high in the middle 
 of the 20th century, a monstrous race of horrifying creatures suddenly shows up and start to killing 
 everyone. In this game you play as Nathan Hale. As Hale, you will be blasting your way through 
 the devastating streets of England and also find yourself deep within the enemy's own territory 
 as you struggle to survive and try to turn the tide of a losing battle.
  
  I recommend this game to all PlayStation3 owners, and you must get it at once. Those who do not 
 have a PS3 well hope that you have a friend with one that will let you play. O' did I mention that 
 there is multiplayer co-op. Me and my friend usually played two-player co-op. Great game!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 15, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Resistence fall of man is a great start for the PS3. the story line of this game is awsome and 
 i like the humans and favorite are the chimare. the on line mode is the best i've seen so far, 
 I like how you can play up to 40 People on line and i like all the stages and add ons that the 
 games has. I also like the rank structure that the online mode has and one last thing that i like 
 about this game is all the difficult setting in the game and you get cool stuff if you beat it 
 on a harder diffucult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattlovesamy_14
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 15, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  -----Prologue -----
  
  Over the past few years there have been many First person shooters come out of the woodwork; some 
 flawed, some astonishing and others with great potential but just fall short of the mark. Today's 
 competitive market poses much more difficulty to developers when trying to create a 'quality' game 
 that it was say five years ago. This is largely due to the improvement in technology, and due to 
 this improvement the expectation from fans and critics alike has grown vastly.
  
  At the present time the Playstation 3 is a brand new technology with even the top developers knowing 
 very little about it, running on the same engine that military computers use make it not only by 
 far the most powerful machine on the market, but also the most complex so we must take this into 
 consideration when judging games.
  
  March 23rd 2007 marked the launch of the Playstation 3 in the UK along with several launch titles, 
 Resistance being one of them (also Resistance is currently the Playstation 3 top seller worldwide) . 
 
  
  -----Review -----
  
  Set in an alternate history during June 1951 the player takes control of Sgt. Nathan Hale, an American 
 troop sent over to aid in the Resistance against the Chimera; a formidable foe that will stop at 
 nothing to overthrow the world.
  
  After a cut-scene explaining the basic plot outline the player is thrust straight into a war zone. 
 A haze of bullets from both Chimera and Allies, there is no time to contemplate your actions: you 
 must choose, fight or die. The removal of a training mission adds to the realism due to the fact 
 that you must find your fighting style as soon as you pick up the SIXAXIS and use strategy and 
 tactics to out-think and tackle countless enemies. Within a few seconds your squad is down and 
 you must face the onslaught of the terrifying Chimera alone. Although you may feel like you are 
 being chucked in at the deep end, get used to it! As most of the game leaves you alone in a world 
 you must navigate alone.
  
  Fortunately the controls in the game feel natural and are very easy to pick up. They are very similar 
 to other First person shooters (R1 = fire primary weapon, X = Jump etc) , which help when getting 
 to grips with battling through countless hordes of Chimera. Although as mentioned before, there 
 is no addition of a training level, hints will appear on-screen during the first mission to aid 
 and experience you in different tactics you may wish to explore in order to tackle the Chimera. 
 There are usually many different types of enemies, spanning from Hybrids to Crawlers to Angels, 
 and fortunately as you progress through the game, more weapons will become available to use against 
 the Chimeran forces. 
  
  Unlike most FPS Resistance enables the player to carry every weapon they pick up along the game 
 as opposed to 2-3 weapons. Although this has been criticised as being un-realistic, it is a compulsory 
 asset to the game due to the fact that the player may be facing many different enemies all at once 
 and luckily every enemy has a weakness to a particular gun (although the player must find this 
 out) . However, I often found myself using the Carbine (which is the first gun available to the 
 player) due to its large magazine capacity, and minimal throwback.
  
  The throwback is one of the features in the game I found most impressive. If you are using a large 
 or powerful piece of weaponry (i. e. shotgun, Auger) the throwback will be great, whereas using 
 smaller lighter weapons that do slightly less damage (i. e. Carbine) the throwback will be minimal. 
 Although the game can be un-realistic in the sense of being able to carry many weapons at once 
 this feature really makes up for it and once you play it, you'll be glad you can use vast amounts 
 of weaponry due to the constant oncoming enemy forces.
  
  The levels in the game follow a fairly linear basis as there is no diversion in missions or alternate 
 routes you may take, however there are certain areas (such as empty rooms or desolate kitchens) 
 which will reward the player if explored with additional ammo, health or Intel (for those of you 
 like me who must complete a game 100% before feeling satisfied) which the average gamer who solely 
 works on completing all the missions would casually stroll by (or sprint all guns blazing, rather) 
 and miss these 'secret' areas.
  
  The game has great replay value and completion rewards as after you have completed the main storyline 
 once through you are rewarded with new weapons should you decide to play through the campaign again. 
 Another feature which I feel is particularly rewarding is after completion of the game a little 
 bar appears at the bottom of the screen saying 'completes #1' or however many times you have completed 
 it, which makes you truly feel triumphant over the game (unlike the games where upon completion 
 you watch the final cut-scene, credits and return to the main menu reverting to your last save) .
 
  
  Resistances storyline according to other reviewers does not hold up too much, which I believe to 
 be non-sense. The mix of voice-overs, cut-scenes and flashbacks provides enough background information 
 and reason to play the game without boring you and forcing you to open a bag of pop-corn, ready 
 for the next few minutes or cinematic distraction. The cut-scenes are well placed in the respect 
 that you understand what you must do next and doesn't chuck you into the middle of something irrelevant. 
 I found myself playing this game always wanting to find out what happens to our half human/half 
 Chimeran hero (and by the closing of the game it delivers, wanting me to already buy Resistance 
 2, which is due for release mid 2008) . 
  
  Many reviewers have commented on graphical difficulties with the game. Although I agree that certain 
 aspects of the games graphics may be jagged or rough, looking as though the designers have taken 
 lessons from Picasso, overall the graphics are astonishing. This game is also a release title for 
 the Playstation 3 (originally released on November 11th 2006, in Japan) , and I cannot remember 
 any titles being 100% perfect, especially release titles. Take the PS2's Herdy Gerdy for example, 
 (which was a release title) and then compare it both in graphical and gameplay terms to the likes 
 of God of War II or Final Fantasy XII. Both games are noticeably improved, and although they take 
 the PS2 to its limits, compare them in graphical and gameplay terms to the Playstation 3's Heavenly 
 Sword, remembering this is also an early title for the Playstation 3. Can you imagine what Playstation 
 3 games will look like in 7-8 years time if they already have screen actors portraying the parts 
 after 6-7 months (based on UK release date) ? Exactly, amazing huh? Also, I don't believe that graphics 
 should make or break a game - it's the gameplay and fun-factor that counts, not entirely down to 
 how good it looks (except for the Xbox 360's Two Worlds which was wrongly compared to Oblivion 
 and lacked gameplay and graphics) .
  
  -----Multiplayer -----
  
  Resistance Features 3 different multiplayer modes:
  
  1. 2 Player Split-Screen Campaign Co-op
 
  2. Up to 4 Player Split Screen Head-to-Head
  3. Online
  
  In 2 Player Split screen Co-op the secondary player takes control of a loyal subordinate of Hale 
 aiding him in all of his campaign missions, panning out roughly similar to the Co-op feature in 
 Gears of War. Other than that all gameplay features are the same as in single player, which is 
 commented above. Although it's a great experience playing through the entire campaign mode with 
 a friend it really does make the game seem ridiculously easy and play through time spanning just 
 a few hours.
  
  The Split Screen Head-to-Head is where players have a death-match against one another, either in 
 a free for all, team death-match, capture-the-flag etc. The area in which the fighting is undergone 
 is in an arena-like location from either the campaign or online modes and (to put a long story 
 short) the player with the highest score wins. There is one major problem with playing split screen 
 against one another: people tend to look at your screen to find where you are, what weapon you're 
 using and how they can handle killing you. Unfortunately this makes split screen head-to head almost 
 unbearable to play due to the shire frustration and I would strongly recommend playing online if 
 you wish to be in a death-match type situation.
  
  Resistance Online is a completely expanded version of Head-to-Head mode with larger maps and slightly 
 different controls (tapping L2 makes your player sprint etc) and although this can be very tricky 
 to grasp it really does separate the part time gamers from the hardcore gamers. The objectives 
 of the game remain the same throughout all multiplayer modes (except Co-op) which can make each 
 game seem very similar and repetitive with the only difference of obviously more challenging enemies, 
 bigger maps and a more in depth experience than battling head-to-head in split-screen mode. Online 
 also features a mode in which you can join or create clans or teams (if you join one it is by invite 
 only) or go it alone as a lone wolf which can be a good option but I would advise against it due 
 to the difficulty of fighting online.
  
  Whilst playing online, the better you play in matches allows you to be upgraded through the ranks 
 of the Army. From this you can join specifically 'Ranked' matches against other gamers around the 
 world who match your ability.
  
  Although I enjoyed this entire online mode I would often find myself hiding in a corner waiting 
 for someone to come into my area due to the difficulty. This got rather repetitive and as soon 
 as I decided to make a move I was shot from an unknown bullet. If you're the sort of gamer who 
 enjoys running around shooting and fatally wounding multiple enemies with a single magazine then 
 online certainly isn't for you. Online can be hard but if you're the sort of person who has dedication 
 towards a game then you should give it a try.
  
  -----Verdict -----
  
  Despite all the trouble there is with both the multiplayer offline and online modes Resistance 
 is a terrific game. The graphics are no doubt some of the best we've seen yet in a game and despite 
 minor flaws, when you have Chimeran troops ranging in the twenties firing at you from all directions 
 a patch of grass is the least of your worries. In gameplay terms Resistance is most definitely 
 a terrific FPS and because of so much over the top action you never find yourself getting bored. 
 It can seem a little repetitive however when shooting enemy after enemy so really this game only 
 appeals to true fans of the FPS genre considering there is no way near as much storyline, side-quests 
 or interaction as there is in games such as The Darkness. Although there isn't as much storyline 
 as other games it still really engrosses the player without boring them to tears and moves swiftly 
 through the campaign with different indoor and outdoor environments to stop the game from becoming 
 too samey. Although minor issues occur online with glitchers the overall online experience is a 
 brilliant asset to the game and truly turns the player into a Resistance Veteran.
  
  Only one minor issue with the game is, due to the length we were left wanting more. If you're a 
 hardcore gamer it really can feel as if the game is finishing before it's truly begun due to there 
 only being approximately 3-4 missions in one specific location. However Resistance really has made 
 good use of all features available to it, even incorporating the SIXAXIS motion sensor to throw 
 enemies off you (although a minor appearance, appreciated all the same) . 
  
  We eagerly look forward to Resistance 2 next year and hope it will make such success in all aspects 
 as the first game has. Given the first instalment, I pose this final question to you: Could Resistance 
 be the Playstation's response to the highly acclaimed Halo series?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moomooman_milk
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 14, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  When I first bought my Ps3 i was pondering what game i should buy, i decided resistance so it can 
 butter me up and take my time until the meaty and manly games come out later on down the road. 
 Not only did this game become one of my best buys ever, i plan to play this game probably more 
 then any of the hyped up anticipated titles for Ps3.
  
  The Graphics for resistance...... amazing. Shows a little sneak peak of what the monster Ps3 can 
 do. The game play outstanding. The campaign has a beautifully molded plot and theres plenty of 
 action even for the middle easterners. what puts the icing on the cake is the unbelievable online. 
 40 player online with your favorite maps with friend all over the world is priceless. the campaign 
 alone will keep u busy for a good time with all of the variety of difficulties and incentives to 
 actually beat them because you are rewarded in the online mode. 
  
  If there is any doubt in your mid that resistance is not worth buying think again. It's not the 
 game where you buy it, beat it and toss it under your bed, the spectacular online will get you 
 hooked on resistance like tommya is hooked on Wii. Enough said, try it out and see if im wrong 
 because the fact of the matter is that this game is up there with the elite shooter games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keyser_So_So
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is in the familiar FPS alien invasion/apocalyptic vision catagory, and it 
 excells at its aims and betters a fair few before it, mainly by homaging the best of the rest.
 
  The story mode (available single player or 2 player co-op) is enjoyable, the story pretty gripping 
 and interesting and the set pieces enjoyable. The weapons are for the most part great fun to use, 
 but there are a few that don't really work (such as the Sapper that lays bubble like mines that 
 don't really have the neccassary oomph) . The majority of weapons really do, however, and an extra 
 set are unlocked on a second play through. 
  All these weapons are locked into a great control system, simple and very effective (think Timesplitters-esque) , 
 and there aren't any quibbles with the feel of the game.
  The sound and graphics are stunning, and if anything serve as the ideal launch game in that they 
 really get you salivating for how much better the graphics can get- - because the detail and imagination 
 in design is fantastic, and the general surrounding ambience really draws you in effectively.
 
  
  Multiplayer-wise, you've got plenty to do, aside from the co-op and the pretty pointless offline 
 arena matches, the online mode is superb. Boasting a reward scheme very familiar from the halo 
 games (e. g.- headshot kill, melee kill, everything adding up and your rank increasing and so ranked 
 games alter to match your ability) , but implemented well and enjoyably, the game draws on its story 
 for the maps. Additional maps are available to purchase, and I recommend it as the map pack seems 
 to open up a lot more for you to do with fellow Resistance players. The voice option with a bluetooth 
 headset is, as with a lot of games, underused, so its usually best to switch it off to avoid the 
 pre-pubescent rambos telling you excitedly "he's in the base! kil him!" over and over.
  
  The flaws with this game are still evident despite being very solid. Whilst the story mode has 
 Intel to collect, special features and the extra guns to enjoy (all of which adds up to what you 
 can do with your character and your rank in multiplayer online) there is little replay value. The 
 additional guns are a bit pointless, the only really cool one being the first you get- some sweet 
 dual sub machine guns.. but the rest are ones you'll recognize from the multiplayer mode that no 
 one ever uses because they're a bit pointless. 
  The other criticism i've already mentioned- by gearing a big portion of your online rank to the 
 singleplayer modes, it kind of neglects multiplayer fans. Why complete the game over and over on 
 your own when you'd rather be playing online? All the same you can still gain the same high rank 
 by a helluva lot of online play.
  The story also suffers with a pretty predictable final act, especially the ending boasting the 
 most overused sort of ending seen in First Person Shooters at the moment, but if you can get past 
 that, and the other two pretty minor faults in such a decent game, its well worth the money- seeing 
 as this will be going pretty cheap, pretty soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKnightGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game was awesome! Sorry Gamespot, but you were wrong. This gaem deserves a perfect 10. It 
 has a variety of weapons, both human and alien alike. The graphics are so real that it's unreal! 
 The plot of the story is a alternate WW2, where instead of fighting Nazis, you're fighting aliens. 
 You play as a American soldier named Nathan Hale, who is sent to Europe to help against the alien 
 threat. The story is long enough and you get to drive army cars, tanks, and alien vessels. This 
 is a must-play for the PS3. The variety of aliens are cool. Any of you people who say it doesn't 
 deserve a 10 do not know a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 12, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  I have a ps3 and an Xbox 360, now i gamed Halo 3, Call of Duty (2, 3, 4, well still clearing the 
 fourth) and i've done quite alot of unreal, PLUS i'm completing the Half life 2 game (also played 
 GoW but that was as third person so...) . Now i'm fuckin impressed by Half Life (not as the only 
 one :P) Halo was okay, but i dont think it was worth more than 9/10 even though i saw alot of people 
 giving it 10/10 (thats a matter of taste) and i love all the call of duty games, specielly modern 
 combat. BUT Resistance: Fall of Men was the greatest shooter i ever tried... but after the first 
 10 stages i was like: "so when is this gonna end", and i played it Co-up with a friend who was 
 saying what i was thinking, so like after 50 stages or something we completed it, and it was the 
 most dissapointing thing, well there is probably gonna be a second, cause the endning movie kinda 
 makes it look like a sequel is gonna appear, but please please for god sake, if there has to be 
 a thousand stages, make them abit diffrent... I love the driving sequences, and i love playing 
 co-up at the end stages, graphics was fine, but daaaaamn its a loong game, and it gets boring..... 
 If u ask me, buy call of duty 2 or 4 (didnt care much for the third) or halo 3 then you have two 
 great shooters! So i would say:
  
  Make a resistance: fall of men, or rise of men or whatever you wanna call a sequel, BUT please 
 make the stages diffrent, and maybe make it more tactical, the weapons was sucky, like your starter 
 weapon - whats the deal with that? - its better than most of the weapons you obtain later on, and 
 for god sake, dont have a health calculaotr, make it like Call of Duty, make it possible to hide 
 and then regain life, thats better and wont stress you that much.... Soo, Graphics = amazing (thats 
 a good thing) Gameplay = kinda dissapointing ( : ( ) Controls = To live with (not the best but i 
 always liked to play first person shooters on pc, or xbox, dont like it taht much on a ps machine) 
 Value = Well i got it in my ps3 package buuut wouldnt have choose it if i had the oppurtunity to 
 take another game as the game is as i thought, it uses the graphic plusses that the ps3 brought 
 the market, but it aint that good, its like mixing areal bad Halo copy, into the Call of Duty universe, 
 and then at the end stages, its just a bad halo copy.
  
  PS: Make an end boss where u go like: "yes finally, i got the f***er down finally, this was fun!" 
 Instead of "yes finally... i'm done with the game after this peice of easy crappy boss enemy"
 
  
  
  6,5 from my view 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjb428
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 4:21 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It has a bunch of really fun replayable levels and its got a great multilayer 
 and single player is fun too.
  
  First off, the single player rocks, it has a bunch of intense moments and its just so awesome, 
 ESPECIALLY IF YOU PLAY IT WITH A FRIEND. The weapons are great and as i said the campaign has allot 
 of replay value.
  
  Multiplayer is huge with 20 vs 20 round matches which is even more people than Halo3!! The MP is 
 also intense and will keep you hooked.
  
  This game PWNS GoW hands down, GoW is like "ok their is 3 enemy's, now i gotta take cover and shoot 
 like the other 40000 times" RFoM is like "Wow 10 enemy's i gotta take cover ohh no their flanking 
 me wow this is awesome (gets out of cover and runs and guns) wow so intense!! ohh no here comes 
 more enemys cool!"
  
  This game even PwNs 3 Halo3. In Halo3 if your smart and don't run straight at the enemy base jumping 
 around in circles you'll PwN EVERYONE. Its like in Halo 3 its all a bunch of tards and little kids.
 
  
  All in all if this game ever comes out on the 360 ill pay 80$ for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DonHamoodi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of man is a perfect but ordinary first person shooter. By that i mean that this 
 game delivers a great first person shooter experience with a lot of content, but unfortunately 
 doesnt add to it, the reason i gave it 9 and not 10!. It's hard to explain what i mean by "add 
 to it" but i can provide examples of other FPS games who added new contents, including R6 Vegas 
 that introduced the nice and appealing ability to see your character taking cover against the wall 
 while shooting. The list of examples also include FEAR where you can go to slow motion anytime 
 you like with great annimations (you can go to slow motion in Resistance as well, but only when 
 using the sniper) . Other than that the game is perfect, looooong, and very addictive, with great 
 amount of weapons and different types of grenades (or things you throw to kill the enemy) . Very 
 nice enemy AI, and beautiful graphics (especially with an HD TV) . The multiplayer is also very 
 addictive with many modes and people playing. So in conclusion, simply i think that this game is 
 one of the best and is a must have for all PS3 users. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinga22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  I love this game!
  It was the very first one that I got for the PS3 and boy was I impressed!
  The gameplay was amazing, 
 I think the story line was really good and the grapics... don't even get me started. If you shot 
 the glass in the windows it actually look so real. The blood spatter of the Chimera was amazing 
 as well. Once you had killed a Chimera, if you zoomed in with your gun it look so real. I have 
 completed this game on easy ans medium but not on hard as it is so much harder. The online version 
 of this game is ok but I don't really go on it that often...
  Apparently there is a sequel to the game called Resistance: Rise of man that is coming out in 2008 
 but not much is known about it so, who knows? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  Resistance starts as you are sergent Nathan hale you have been assigned to go help british while 
 a species called the chimera showed up taking over mos t of europe. This now bring s you in to 
 help the British fend off them and you end up getting infected but not harmed so you go out to 
 kill them with many weapons thanks to insomniac who brought us ratchet and clank so any way it 
 includes a gun which can shoo t through walls and a gun that you can keep shooting and still hit. 
 Now multiplayer is big with huge 40 player matches in many good and assortmaent of game types. 
 Resistance did not bring new things to 1rst person shooters but it prefecred it perfectly with 
 great a great story and online expirence. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpEn_MaN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  i want this game so f**king much. it is by far the best fisrt person shooter since james bond goldeneye 
 for the n64. the graphics are TOP OF THE LINE, it is made by insomniac so the weapons are out of 
 this world. first sypro, then ratchet, and now RESITANCE! this game will be remembered for being 
 one of the best ps3 of all time. if you like shooting games, this is for you, wait, this game is 
 for EVERYONE! when i get a ps3, this is the first game i will buy for it. the online is also something 
 to talk about. it is so easy to just gom and play with people from the u. s, canada, u. n and all 
 over the world. one last thing, if you have a ps3 and don't have resistance, WHAT IS WRONG WITH 
 YOU! lol, justy kidding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psychpath
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has the classic fps qualities be it just feels right there is so much depth in this game 
 it is all you need to have with your ps3. I lack the words to describe this staggeringly good game. 
 It is worth buying a ps3 just for this game. It will blow you away. This game has a problem like 
 all game there simply just isn't enough time in the day to play it. It features some very inventive 
 weapons such as a gun that you can break the bullets apart to make a wider spread or one that is 
 more powerful the more walls it goes through 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bjhean
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 8, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  This game has been one of the top games for the PS3 now since the release of this next-gen platform. 
 But now, the really interesting titles are beginning to drop in on PS3.
  
  What I really like with Resistance: Fall Of Man, is that it features a great arsenal of the weapons 
 and the AI of the enemy. My personal favorite weapon is the standard machine gun. The multiplayer 
 is great. It got great potential and really easy to just quick start and join a game.
  
  Though, this type of gameplay isn't that new-thinking, world war 2, aliens trying to erase mankind. 
 I'm in person, isn't a big fan of WW2 games. I'm more with the modern type of style ;)
  
  If you like FPS games, you should definately go for Resistance. Let's see what the sequel will 
 be like. It is worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyhwk91
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the PS3's finest, and in my experience, the best PS3 shooter 
 out there (waiting on Killzone 2) . It has a beautiful storyline that can't be beat by anything 
 other than it's gameplay. It's control scheme is by far one of the best FPS controls that i've 
 seen. The ability to switch your weapons to easily, and the fact that the secondary fire and grenade 
 buttons aren't right next to each other, really lightens its ability. The only thing that i was 
 displeased about in it's gameplay, was the fact that the game was so dark and gloomy that 80% of 
 the time you were just running through tunnels underground. And once you played upside it was still 
 dark and cloudy (not including the first level) . The Multiplayer is great, and the tournaments 
 are even better. The many game modes and maps really bring out this games multiplayer. And the 
 fact that there are map packs out there (and hopefully more to come) just really brings it up from 
 the ground.
  
  Resistance is a must own PS3 game in my opinion, and a definite own for any insomniac fan. I have 
 to say that I am hoping for a sequel, but if not then hopefully some new multiplayer add-ons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: puneman1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 2:14 am PT
Review:  It took a long time for other next generation consoles to get their hits, but the PS3 has delivered 
 on day 1 with Resistance: Fall of man. The chimera, an alien species is starting to take over the 
 whole of Europe and it is your job to save the world from these deadly, cool, bloody, gored-up 
 beasts. You are Nathan Hale, a US army soldier who skips the chit-chat and gets up to the shooting. 
 Resistance gives you top notch graphics and level design along with some terrific sound effects 
 and physics. There are many Chimera species ranging from the tiny crawlers to the colossal goliaths 
 that will bubble you face up!!! Even though you will be fighting the normal hybrid species mostly 
 throughout the game, the detailed leveling design along with the killer AI will keep you on your 
 toes. Insomniac gives again with some breath taking guns. You have your standard shot gun, sniper, 
 machine gun etc. Along with that you have the auger, the tag gun, and much more. The campaign mode 
 of the game takes around 10-15 hours to defeat depending on your skill level. It can be played 
 in Easy, medium, hard and superhuman difficulties. Two player co-op is also available. The online 
 is where the real fun begins. You get to play as the humans or the chimera. Both these teams are 
 nicely balance out, with each having their own special abilities. From getting this game, one thing 
 is for sure, you wont be getting your *** off that couch for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a new shooter from Insomniac Games, the makers of the successful Spyro 
 the Dragon series (PS1) and the Ratchet &amp; Clank series (PS2, PSP and PS3) . It has now turned 
 to a darker story; one with horrible alien enemies and insane, crazy weapons.
  
  The story goes a little bit like this: a mysterious and vicious alien race called the Chimera have 
 sprung from Russia, and have overwhelmed all of Europe in a matter of months. The English believed 
 that the Channel would keep them safe, but they were wrong. Now, the British and Americans have 
 come together in a last ditch effort rid the alien scum.
  
  The story is highly original, seeing as though it is set in an alternate reality, where WWII never 
 happened. Your character, Nathan Hale arrives in York, and is infected by the Chimeran virus, however 
 has a strange resistance to it.
  
  To start off, the graphics are fantastic. They aren't the best on the market, but the sheer size 
 of the draw distance and the impeccable attention to detail is astounding. The Chimeran creatures 
 are especially interesting. Their four eyes, cooling tanks and grey skin adds to the sci-fi feel 
 to the game.
  
  This is a shooter, so your main mode of gameplay will be shooting, and this brings me to the awesome 
 weapons. Insomniac have adapted their crazy weapons from R&amp; C to Resistance, and you'll find 
 weapons that can shoot through walls, plant explosive blobs, place homing tags on enemies and even 
 slow down time. The variety of the weapons mean that there's a place and time for each of them, 
 so you'll constantly find yourself flicking through the weapon ring to find the gun appropriate 
 for the job. In short, the guns are uber-cool.
  
  You can also drive tanks, jeeps and Stalkers in Resistance. These sections are especially fun, 
 and are great distractions from the, at times, repetitive gameplay. The main campaign will be clocked 
 in under 10 hours, but the amazing multiplayer (up to 40 players) can be excrutiatingly addictive, 
 adding tremendously to the somewhat short lifespan of R: FoM.
  
  There are definitely some horror sections as well. One time, you will be travelling through a darkened 
 subway with lights flickering when suddenly 30 of the alien crab-like Leapers come rushing at you, 
 sceming in their alien language, from above and to the sides. You will encounter the haulking Titans, 
 massive spiders called Widowmakers, the fast and scary Grey Jacks and the nimble, stealthy Slipskulls. 
 However, at heart, this game is FUN. Want to toss a needle-prickling Hedgehog grenade, then watch 
 as five Hybrids get splattered with splinters? Or shoot a LAARK rocket, then slow it down in mid-air, 
 and change its course so it can hit a tank that's giving you trouble? How about go online, a use 
 the flamethrower to incinerate your enemies? The graphics are outstanding, the gameplay is intense, 
 the multiplayer is hectic, and all of the other little things, add up to be an impressive package 
 that will give gamers a tantalizing look at the PS3's power and, more importantly, just how fun 
 the FPS genre can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosey7683
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!!!!! the storyline is awesome. For the PS3's first standard of games this game 
 is great. BLACK was and okay game, but this game is 10x above that!!!! The graphics are really good 
 the explosions are really real looking and the diolage is great. You can choose between single 
 campain or cooperative campain. The cooperative campain is more fun then the single I think because 
 you can play with a friend or a family member. The online is great to you can play for non-stop 
 fun. The game you play is deathmatch which is my personal favorite. The game is about alians trying 
 to take over the world, but you try to stop them. The action is great. This is what you whould 
 expect from the PS3. THIS IS A MUST BUY FOR ALL PS3 OWNERS!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Been one of the first games on the ps3 is something the game is, but if we delve deeper into the 
 game we see that the story line isn't bad at all and that the gameplay is all right with todays 
 standards. The online is great and smooth no lagging unless you have horrible internet connection. 
 The weapons in the game are great not historically correct, but amazing from a rocket launcher 
 2 a a shot gun and oh yeah the alien weapons from weapons that go through buildings and still hit 
 the target as for projectiles theres the usual frag grenade to a fuel grenade that burns anything 
 living in the vicinity. The game is definetely a different step from the makers of Ratchet and 
 Clank series as for sixaxis control is all right not really neccessary sort of like an add on to 
 the game at last minute. Other than that the game isn't bad, but at the same time its not great. 
 The graphics are outstanding and the local multiplayer is all right online multiplayer includes 
 ranking based on how many enemies you kill your ranking changes from a simple rookie to a major 
 oh the times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Another great succes from Insominac Gamez , and what da u know its there 1st Mature game.
  
  FoM is a great game , the graphics ar truly Amazing ( Ratchet and Clank Had also amazing graphics) The 
 Gameplay itself is nice and the co-op itselv is Great. The enemis ar ok and the story itself is 
 kinda of lik CoD4 but instead ov Peoples ther ar KIMERE (i alwayz call them like tat)
  
  The weapons ar awsome ( Its insominac ) But there arent alot ov weopens though and too bad it cant 
 upgrade ( well thats Ratchet games) The game itself is actually long.
  
  Overall its a nice game the co-op, gameplay, Matureness and its deffintly a good game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gibsonguitars69
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  To start off, the game all round is quite good. It has some very good parts about it and some very 
 fustrating. To start off with the good points.. the graphics are stunning and jaw dropping for a 
 playstation 3 release game, the A. I off the enemies and allies are very intelligent, online multiplayer 
 is something worth experiencing its very addictive and will keep you online for hours on end. Now 
 for the bad... The story doesnt quite hook you and most of the time you dont even know why your 
 in certain areas doing certain missions, there's this thing with the game where you come up to 
 a certain part of the game which is basically impossible to do then you die and come back to it 
 and its incredibly easy. Also the health and always found when you dont need them, so when you 
 have full health you will find a lot of them while on the other hand when your nearly dead you 
 cant find anything. Another good point is the details of the texture on surfaces and also on the 
 detail of the guns, the soundtrack is brillant and atmospheric but sometimes there isn't even a 
 soundtrack just your footsteps. All in all its a pretty solid game but i think it is quite overrated 
 and not worth all of the hype. 7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dobbybrook
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  the game resistance: fall of man, was one of the first titles of the ps3 and is still to date one 
 of the best games for the console. its graphics are extremely good in my opinion and the sound 
 and gameplay are also of high standards. it has a fairly long life span with an indepth story and 
 pretty good online component. It also has a really good cooperative story to which is heaps sweet 
 to play with a friend etc. i personally think that this game is in alot of ways better than halo 
 three but that is just my opinion but i do think that every ps3 owner should purchase this game 
 if they haven't already 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:16 am PT
Review:  Im playing and finishing it already. But i had a pleasant time, the game was awesome, and a bit 
 scary too. well almost=) the graphics are awesome if you play on HD TV, But i can say one bad thing 
 dissapointed in the online gaming. The game is not made for online gaming, the thing is its too 
 fast for me, well i only think so. but the game play is cool, sounds are great too. But i saw one 
 cool thing, the enemy are so realistic, well for ex. Im crounching under a box, the aliens are 
 shooting at me. I slowly geting out of that way, and if they dont see me getting out of there they'll 
 be looking at that same place where i was before. Like in real life dont ya think? =) Well who 
 heard about this game, and i think that everyone knows it. if you like it, then buy it! =DD Now about 
 the weapons, there are many choices of the weapons. well thats about enough. Ok im of shooting 
 some aliens, ohh their race name is Chimeran=) so see ya=) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2114ATHOL
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  As history may have it , there aren't many killer launch titles for sony's
  juggernaut machine (s) . Resistance breaks that mould by being creative,
  fun, and yet challenging 
 to both veterans and newbies of FPS games past and present. Insomniac games is known for Ratchet 
 &amp; Clank fame , and you're probably thinking that there's no chance in hell that they could 
 pull off a killer FPS for the ps3's launch - or any other time for that mater. That's where your 
 wrong - dead wrong. R: FoM is fun , not in the 5 minute quick thrill sense , but in the 2 hour I 
 need to finish this mission sense. The level design is straight forward and linear , which means 
 it's hard to get lost, which means that you're never too far from the action. By no means am I 
 implying that the levels are repetative - far from it. Set in an alternate history of 1951 England 
 , you'll traverse everything from the war - torn streets of York to the alien Chimera megastructures 
 in the ruins of London. If you're a dedicated graphics nut , you'll need to see it on a Hi - Def 
 TV for enhanced ambiance. So - it's engaging and it looks clean and polised. The very same can 
 be said about the game's ruthless enemies and intuative control layout.
  The bad guys in resistance are the Chimera aliens , actually they are humans that have been infected 
 with a virus and mutated. But besides their
  back - story, the chimera are one of most vicious and intelligent enemies
  you'll ever have the 
 challenge disposing of. FAST - UNPREDICTABLE -
  CUNNING - KILLARIFIC ( ??? ) This is the way the Chimera do their thing and it is the most common 
 you'll be swearing if you look at it as an acronym. Things can get a little crazy really fast when 
 7 chimera back you into a corner , but don't panic , just remember a man's best friend - not a
 
  dog - hell no - your trusty shotgun and frag grendes are your babies in this game, so use them 
 wisely. A cluttered control sceme will ruin any feirce firefight , but the interface is a godsend 
 to all FPS games. seriously- it's that simple. A quick tap on the R2
  trigger cycles through available weapons - which you have a lot of - so what do you do? You hold 
 down the R2 trigger and a wheel HUD comes up and pauses the game while displaying the outline of 
 all your guns and their
  names / ammo / secondary fire rounds , etc. So then you simply select the desired firearm and you'll 
 have it instantaneously. Good Graphics. Good Guns. Good Controls&gt; Good AI Good Girl - yea, only 
 one hot Brit chick ; ) ( tis' better than none ) Good Fun One of the toughest things to judge in 
 a FPS is difficulty.
  I've played FPS games since I was 10 starting with Golden Eye back on the
  N64 , so the game 
 was pretty standard on medium difficulty. But as a guiding light to all easily frustrated people 
 , let me just clarify that if you decide to try Hard mode and Superhuman mode , that you'll
  be asking yourself what kind of sick sadistic bastard would place 3 mines behind that wall after 
 I just barely escaped with my life? 
  *crash* *bang* WHAT THE #$%^ !!! *controller flung out window* So beat the game on medium to familiarize 
 yourself with where the
  enemies will be.
  
  Happy Hunting!
  
  P. S. the game has a wicked achievement system and a ton of secrets that
  guarentee you won't 
 be happy beating it just once : ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: okami316
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  For the PS3 this was a great game. There were some frustrating parts, but they weren't major flaws. 
 The online is also a fun thing to play. The weapons are fun to use, but you really don't need use 
 all of them. The Co-op is also a fun thing to play if you have a friend. The super-human difficulty 
 made the difficulty challenging enough for me, although it sometimes made the enemy cheap, so that 
 was frustrating. Overall Resistance is a great game to buy for the PS3 especially for a first game. 
 Since it shows off the PS3's potential with graphics, AI, and other things (although it barely 
 had the motion control) . If you're getting a PS3 this the first game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3eloff
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Will go straight to rate each category.
  
  Gameplay : 7
  Campaign mode leaves an impression of just another shooter. Some what decent storyline that follows 
 a path of Nathan Hale. The whole alien invasion from Russia requires a no brainer for writers. 
 A. I's are average, and you get few types of enemies as you move along. Some weapons are pretty 
 cool. Graphics : 6
  Don't get me wrong, they were not bad, but I was really disappointed that they were so simple, 
 not next generation graphics. And this was a lunch title!
  
  Sound : 8
  Decent weapon sound and just alright game music
  
  Conclusion : I liked my game experience 
 overall. Beside, multiplayer will keep you playing, trust me. I did not like how RFOM feels so 
 unrealistic though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romer318
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Well, I feel that this game is just a little over-rated. Now before you send me hate mail, or put 
 nasty comments on my page, listen here. I find that this game IS fun, but not as much fun as everyone 
 makes it out to be. The game is very well put together, its what every game should be: NOT RUSHED. 
 But sadly, I'm lost in the fact that everyone hyped it up so much for me, and when I got it, I 
 was almost sad. Because what I was playing was not what I had wanted. Anyway, I'm here to tell 
 you about the good. So I guess I will. While the graphics are good, there not really pushing the 
 limits of the system. The game play is good; it can be aggravating sometimes, due to the fact that 
 the aiming takes some time to get use to. Cover is your best friend. If you don't know how to use 
 cover... then youre dead. The AI is very nice, showing that they will flank you if you stay in 
 one place too long. Also, a very powerful force you will be facing. You will stand alone, as most 
 of your Friends get blasted and die after only one shot. The online is nice IF and I say a BBIIIIGGGG 
 IF you can get past the stupid games that you will find. One hit deaths is not a fun way to play, 
 yet you will find almost nothing but that. Taking all skill out of this game. Also they have a 
 real problem with glitches. Meaning people take advantage with them. Anyway, I would say rent this 
 game, and then give it your opinion. But you might want to save some money by doing that. Because 
 you may not like what you find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamerich1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:50 am PT
Review:  What can i say the first game i put into my brand new ps3 on the day of release and what do i find? 
 Enlightenment. Enlightenment on how waiting all that time for the ps3 was the right thing to do.
 
  
  The story is well thought out yet suspensive. The story is set in an alternate history where ww2 
 did not happen but a much more sinister history has been spreading through all of the northern 
 hemisphere. They are the chimerra and they have invaded the last hope of resistance- england.
 
  
  So take the role of an American soley dedicated to winning the fight for england.
  
  The gameplay is immersive yet intiguing, also the gamme makes use of the sixaxis for the extra 
 interactivity. The visuals are amazing, you will wonder who is being played as the AI challenges 
 you constatntly, i will not spoil any more the game as you will have to see for yourself it is 
 brilliant. I t includes online multiplayer of upto 40 players so be prepared.
  
  
  p. s. sorry the reveiw came out now i have only just joined the union
  
  My rating 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bucket415
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2007 9:47 am PT
Review:  I rank this game 8.0 because it has a good story, its long enough and it has a bunch of original 
 ideas in what is currently a non-original game genre. My problem is that too many people, most 
 of which I believe are young gamers (born 1987 or later) do not have enough game experience to 
 properly rate games. Too many games are rated 8.0 and higher, its just impossible. 8.0 + should 
 be reserved for great games only. If you look at the ratings for movies on IMDB, only two movies 
 in the history of movies is rated at 9.0 and higher, those are The Godfather and Shashank Redemption 
 . There are hundreds of games on this site rated 8.0+. Please people, be more realistic with your 
 ratings, think of 9.0 as the Holy Grail . Average games deserve a 6.5 to 7.0. Good games deserve 
 a 7.5 to 8.0. Great games deserve 8.5 and Perfect games deserve 9.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad4gamez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I just recently got a PS3. I've owened my 360 for about 1 1/2 yrs now and have enjoyed it immensly. 
 Can't really say I could choose one system over the other.... but!!! Eventhough PS3 is lacking in 
 volume games , it does have some great quality exclusive titles. Residence: Fall of Man is certainly 
 one of them. Graphically it's very underrated. At certain points in this game, namely path of least 
 resistance it really showcases the PS3's power - gun battles, smoke effects and terrific lighting 
 etc. That's not even it's full potential, given it came out at launch. Sound effect are immersive 
 and most importantly you become very involved in the story. It's not an overly difficult game even 
 at it's strongest moments; but there's just so much this game will throw at you to keep your attention. 
 The game is very well done. When I think of Halo 3 (which I have only played some of) , I can't 
 help but realize how refeshing it is to play this style of game combating new types of enemies. 
 Halo 3 has yet to captivate me because although it does look great on the 360, it's just so much 
 of the same 'ol, same 'ol recycled characters and basically nothing new. In conclusion, Resistance 
 is a very strong title IMO and is just a prime example of the guality in a game that Sony has always 
 been capable of producing. Reminiscent of it's highly successful PS2 days. I just wish they'd do 
 Twisted Metal Black, next-gen. That would be amazing!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BondMI6007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  Before I bought 'Resistance: Fall of Man', I had heard about it because almost all of my friends 
 had it and I just thought, 'What's the big deal?' Well, I would soon find out what the 'big deal' 
 was. I do enjoy first-person shooters, but not science-fiction ones -- But, 'Resistance: Fall of 
 Man' was different -- It had more exciting moments than most games I have ever played, and it also 
 frightened you quite a bit as well! The graphics and the environment designs are a joy to look 
 at, as are the character designs, particularly the Chimera. For those of you who have the game 
 or those of you that are getting it -- kill a Chimera, walk over to it and examine it. The level 
 of detail is astounding. I'm not going to go on about how good this game is, but trust me, it's 
 great and, as you can see, other reviews speak for themselves. So do yourself a favour and buy 
 this game... Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skylinegtr31422
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be the best shooting game out for ps3 right now. The graphics aren't great but 
 the gameplay, sound, and storyline are fantastic. I have spent countless hours playing the game 
 online and i enjoy it more than any other online game for ps3. The storyline about the war and 
 the chimera lead to a great experience. The chimera are very scary especially when they pop out 
 of nowhere. Hale vs. Master Chief is a tough call so i call it a tie. This game is a masterpiece 
 especially since it was one of the first games out for ps3. This game is a definite must buy for 
 all ps3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  When I played halo when it came out on the xbox in 2001, I was instantly hooked. The story, the 
 graphics, the gameplay. It felt so fresh that you couldn't help but love the game... as much as 
 you love FPS, that is.
  
  I like to see some innovations in FPS games from time to time and, for some reason, didn't find 
 any in Resistance. Don't get me wrong here, I really liked the game for what it is. I just wish 
 it wouldn't ressemble halo that much, in some way. Innovations aside, the game as its own merit 
 and is a solid shooter. Graphically it's pretty much what you'd expect from a next-gen console 
 but it won't raise the bar for other FPS's.
  
  The level design is nice, making you feel like you're in a war torn city of the 40's as the game 
 setting presents it. The objectives could have used more imaginations. Basically, you run through 
 a level, kill baddies then arrive at some place with a big baddy or lotsa baddies and then on you 
 go again. I really enjoyed those few levels where you had to drive a jeep or a tank but I wished 
 for more of them. There's lots of weapons to choose from as you get further into the game and they 
 all feel powerful, even the ones you get early on.
  
  One thing that made me appreciate the game more is the fact that you can play the single player 
 campaign cooperatively with a friend. The online multiplayer is a nice addition also.
  
  All in all, if you're into FPS games and can't get enough of them, give this one a try and you 
 shouln't be disappointed but don't expect anything new from the FPS formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nir_Avniel
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  I love first player shooter games and I think this is one of the best.
  The AI in this game is amazing.
  The sound give you the impression that you are there and changes 
 the atmosphere completely (in a good way) .
  Varied of weapons are giving the joy to play this game.
  
  This game is not boring, it gives 
 you the desire to get playing again and again.
  
  I'm waiting now for COD4 and Soldier of Fortune, that seams to be great games as well.
  
  . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  
  Thanks guys,
  
  Nir 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wopenka_11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  If you havent got this game then you are missing out on something great! At first i thought it 
 would have been a dodgey game, but i was very wrong about that. The way the story is told is superb, 
 make's you feel like your in an interview with the story teller during the cut scenes and then 
 being able to play what was told and the events in between. Multiplayer is fun but needs some better 
 maps. Co op is incredibly good, a friend of mine had bought Halo 3 we played the Co op in that 
 game, but we decided that it wasnt as good as Resistance. Awesome graphics, awesome gameplay and 
 interesting ways of incooperating the Sixaxis into the game play. This game is definently worth 
 buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Garlnd
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 29, 2007 12:05 pm PT
Review:  With the Solo Campaign, Co-Op Campaign, Offline and Online Multiplayer matches from, Deathmatch 
 to Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag and a few other online and offline modes mean there is none 
 stop action with this game, for a mode that everyone can enjoy. The Campaign mode has a great Story 
 Line and pretty much amazing game play. It is your typical war game but even more. With Sony's 
 own imagination they've created 'Chimera' with brand new games with there own unique 1 Kill modes. 
 From Rocket Launchers to Flame Thrower your never stuck for ammo. Also on the online mode you can 
 try and get certain ribbons and medals. From Headshot Kill Ribbon to the 10 In a row Medal. Each 
 with there own desired way to get these, people are even more competitive to get all these medals 
 and ribbons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starnerd67
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is one of a few PS3 games out that true show the better side of the console, with so 
 few legit games to choose from, Resistances should be on every PS3 owners shelf. It brings the 
 best combination of multiple FPS games all into one. The very feel of this game bring a Medal of 
 Honor meets Halo kind of feel. On top of all that, the story line actually makes you want to beat 
 it, not just some levels that Actually get harder, but the story has seems to have alot of depth 
 to it and propels you to finish it.
  
  Gameplay - not much to say, its alot like your typical FPS which in this genre, rarely differs, 
 The main thing that makes resistance stand out in Gameplay would be the weapons. From the creators 
 of Ratchet and Clank, its no wonder why the weapons are so cool. My favorite would have to be the 
 Bullseye which allows you to tag your opponent which would then allow all your shots to zone into 
 your opponent. But the guns arn't so uber that the game is easy, as Your opponents are using the 
 same weapons as you are, and the fact that some of your opponents can see through walls and shoot 
 through them as well doesn't help. But overall the shooting is bloody fun.
  
  Graphics - Okay so if you kill those ugly things, they kind of fall down weird, they don't seem 
 to die elegantly, but the graphics itself are wonderful. Ive never seen such realism in a FPS before. 
 in random parts, these scary mutant freaks grab you and bite your neck, I shook the controller 
 out of fear, realizing that shaking the controller is what your supposed to do in such a situation. 
 Freaked me out big time, so much so that the big boss guys don't scare me, only the crappy grabbing 
 slow weak guys that do. (think slow zombie, they came from behind kind of eating brain thing) Anyways, 
 amazing graphics
  
  Storyline - Im a huge fan of RPG's and story line is pretty much the only reason for my playing 
 games. No good storyline ? crap game for me. which is why i usually turn to WWII games, FF games, 
 or Star Wars games (though alot have sucked in this lineage, its coming back up) So if i was going 
 to like resistance, it needed a pretty cohesive storyline for me to not want to return this. Lucky 
 for me the whole ugly golden eyed guys were so brilliantly implemented into a story that i just 
 can't help but want to continue despite how creepy the dark tunnel might be (or that those things 
 might grab me) It truely interests you till the very end.
  
  I recommend this to ANY PS3 owner as well as all of enjoy the FPS genre. It'll make you dream creepy 
 ugly freaks, but the guilty pleasure of Resistance is worth the whole deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Man725
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is more innovative as far as the direction taken with its concept, yet 
 can leave you hanging with actual game play elements.
  
  The first thing you will obviously notice about Resistance is its superb graphics. You start to 
 see how cut-scene graphics are cleverly blended into game play graphics, and because each are nearly 
 identical in their greatness, no fine line is noticeable between the two. The visuals are demonstrated 
 in a number of situations, from the streets of a destroyed city, to deep underground alien-made 
 tunnels.
  
  The audio in Resistance is hard to leave unnoticed. It helps emerge you into this fictional battleground 
 with ease. Whether an explosion is right next to you, or miles off, your going to hear it and most 
 likely react to it. Although the audio helps set the mood for each situation, sometimes certain 
 tracks or sounds can seem a bit out of place, or lagging. So while the audio itself is superb, 
 you will have to look over the fact that it can sometimes be badly placed in some situations.
 
  
  Resistance offers a wide variety of weapons to aid you with eliminating your foes. Each weapon 
 serves the same purpose, but in different ways. Some weapons will help you eliminate an enemy from 
 afar, some from behind cover, and others just look plain cool. Despite how cool some of these weapons 
 are, you may find yourself using only one or two of the variety offered to you. In many situations, 
 you will simply be looking for a weapon just to kill your enemy as quickly as possible, and not 
 all of the weapons provide for that.
  
  One of the major flaws that I saw in Resistance was the lack of a variety of foes. For the first 
 several levels you will find yourself battling the same monsters over, and over again. And while 
 there are other monsters introduced throughout the game, some of them rarely appear, or look very 
 similar to the monsters you have been fighting throughout the entire game. Additionally, the weaknesses 
 of each of these monsters is essentially the same: getting shot a lot.
  
  The story and concept surrounding Resistance is one of its strongest points. You will quickly be 
 emerged into the story and struggle facing these people. Between each mission you are given a substantial 
 amount of information about your current situation, what has led up to it, and what is to follow. 
 Although because of this, the game can be very predictable at times. The concept of a sort of futuristic 
 alien WW2 struggle makes for a much welcome original storyline.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is great for anyone who likes FPS, and doesn't mind a nice story also. 
 You won't exactly be getting a tear-jerking Final Fantasy saga, but for a FPS, it does a very good 
 job of balancing game play with a great original story. Resistance is innovative in its own great 
 ways, but could easily be called a cross between any WW2 shooter out there today and something 
 like Half Life or a toned-down version of Doom 3.
  
  Overall, its worth your time as a refreshing new take on first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GlassDominion
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  let me start off and say i have not played this game online, so everything in this review is based 
 off my impressions of the single player campaign.
  
  graphics: out of all the things resistance does, graphics is probably the worse thing it brought 
 to the table. now worse has a very bad connotation to it... where in reality the graphics are very 
 good, it makes a good looking game. but compared to gears of war which came out around the same 
 time, resistance has very smooth creatures with high quality textures ontop... where gears of war 
 had high detail in the polygon frame of the creatures and then textures over that. so this game 
 is by no means ugly, its just not the best visuals on the market... but when everything on the market 
 is looking great its no surprise.
  
  Sound: Sound was pretty good, i dont have a lot to comment on here because im using 12 year old 
 speakers who couldnt give me all the glorry of what the game had to offer me. but seriously the 
 guns sounded fine, and what little i remember of the music score was fitting for this title. very 
 low background music played well into the feel of the game.
  
  gameplay: this game is very much like other FPS games when it comes to your gameplay. run, shoot, 
 duck, shoot, nade, bash, jump, shoot, and so on. where this game mixes up the formula is the abilities 
 of the guns. from a sniper riffle that slows down time to get that fast moving guy in the head, 
 to guns that shoot through any wall, and even guns you tag a target with and all your bullets home 
 to that target. it really mixes up the gameplay and has you using each guns abilities to kill the 
 enemies. its never a good thing to see the enemies shooting the guns that go through walls at you 
 when your in cover about to die.
  
  continuing on with gameplay, i have to admit i died many times on normal mode, it felt to be about 
 as hard as halo3 on heroic. that being said, only a few of the enemies were bullet sponges. you 
 could drop them pretty quickly if you landed your shots... but so could you. this brought a good 
 balance to the game, where you dont charge into the room and somehow live. you actually have to 
 take your time a little as you run through this game. it also makes the game fun. you dont find 
 yourself complaigning the enemies take more than a single clip to kill... unless its soem huge 12 
 foot monster that you know is going to eat bullets for breakfast.
  
  this is a must buy for all ps3 owners, best part is the game is actually long. i was not able to 
 finish this game in 1 or 2 sittings, it took me 4 sitting of co-op running straight through the 
 game... so its 12-16 hours long roughly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelchu
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  When i fist picked up resistance i was convinced it was going to be like another halo. in a lot 
 of ways i was right but fall of man had a lot of offer that i think should set a standard in fps 
 games.
  
  i've already played and beaten this game 11 times, so in my opinion the replay value is very very 
 high. the single player and co-op both work really well and are both very engaging. once you load 
 a level it's very hard to stop. the story isn't really a novel to where it tells a dramatic story 
 but it's enough encouragement to keep moving through the game and have a good understanding on 
 what is going on. my favorite aspect of this game is the weapons, i wouldn't say all of them are 
 essential but i like being able to carry every gun in the game at the same time and just spray 
 enemies with ammo, there are a verity of weapons and they can all do two different things. one 
 of the best weapons is the sniper rifle because you can slow down time and the head shots are just 
 amazing. the online multilayer is also very good. as far as all the ps3 games go, the menu's in 
 fall of man are the most easiest to navigate and i can always find a room i want to join. there 
 aren't a lot of different modes, but the death match for me does the job. my favorite game thats 
 exclusive to the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: quilanost
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Overall a thoroughly enjoyable game from start to finish, I dont worry too much about graphics, 
 frame rates and all that technical stuff but to a novice gamer it all seemed pretty darn good. 
 My biggest gripe would have to be the shear amount of health packs available (when played on medium 
 difficulty) tended to take the desperation factor out of the game. Theres a good selection of guns 
 to pick up along the way from both vanquished enemies and fallen comrades, even though I found 
 myself returning the one I started with most of the time. As an out and out Run &amp; Gun this 
 game definitely gets 2 thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ja010764
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 19, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  
  -Weapons, this was one of the best weapon set I have played since the old Perfect Dark on N64. 
 The secondary use in each weapon was great.
  -Graphics, although many would say they are not that good it is some of the best seen on the PS3 
 yet.
  -Vehicles, great fun some what short lived but still fun.
  
  Cons:
  
  -My biggest complaint is the checkpoint lay out, they are to few and far between you can play for 
 10-15 min and never find one and if you die (you will) have to start all the way over.
  -Also I found this game to be very, very hard. I guess I am use to Halo but I just think it was 
 very difficult, which can make the game irritating not fun.
  -multi-player, this was my first PSN experience and I have to say it is no good. I use to be a 
 die hard Sony Fanboy but then I actually bought and was not impressed, Sony has let me down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u_poop
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:59 pm PT
Review:  This is the very first game i have played on the night i went to best buy and bought the system. 
 This game seems to have struck gold to be the very first ps3 shooter.
  When you first start the game it does a well job of telling thse story. From the min you start 
 the game play and the solider starts talkin to you it makes you excited. The graphics are very 
 amazing on hd tv , but the visuals are not too great on standared. THegame is very sharp and clear 
 and that is about it on the graphixs THe story doesnt quite unfold as you would want it to and 
 doesnt change much, however the ending is exciting and realy makes you wonder what is goning to 
 happen. And when you blow up the reactor and watch the final cut scene it seems that the hero nathan 
 hale has died but if you keep watching till the ending of the credits you see that he is stll alive 
 and i am not sure but i think the explosion happens and the us opperative soilders pick him up 
 in a chopper which seems that their will be more to come The game is memrabal and one of the most 
 best ps3 games to date, and i hope to see the sequal in the near future, and i am glad the english 
 church did not ban it cuz the ps3 would lose some sales .. so that was probably the lamest review 
 i did in 2 secends, lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wjmiiirep
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:32 am PT
Review:  I haven't played multi-player because i have played the game almost a year after it came out and 
 i don't have a headset. The single-player campaign was very good. I think the ending sets up a 
 great sequal. I think the story was above-average and pretty lengthy for a single-player campaign. 
 Maybe a little too long. After a while you just want to finish the game and move onto the next 
 title. I missed having achievements.
  Graphics were good but the enemies were too repetative. Guns are varied though. The enemies do 
 have good AI though. I think it is a definate must-play if you have a ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doherty883
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 4:02 am PT
Review:  When i fist bought my ps3 i knew resistance would be my first purchase.
  I have never really been a huge fps fan but out of the line up games for ps3 resistance stood out 
 among the crowd.
  
  Resistance :fall of man hooked me straight away with its classic fps format and next gen graphics, the 
 game takes place across various uk locations and realistic settings where you take on the role 
 of nathan hale.. a us soldier thrown in at the deep end in the fight against the chimera.
  The chimera are alien life forms breeded from alien technology found by the russians, the control 
 of these created aliens soon leaves the russians hands and chimerian invasion spreads across europe 
 like wild fire.
  
  While resistance is not the longest fps game i have played the solid 1 player and co-op 2 player 
 campaign modes kept me going for about a week, the missons are challenging enough but not very varied 
 in style or setting.
  
  Now i come to the online modes in resistance becuase this is were the game truly shines!.
  The 
 2-40 player online deathmatches, capture the flag and other multiplayer modes are some of the best 
 times i ever had playing a game online and the whole presentation is exellent for online play.
 
  Online more than triples the replay value of this title and of all my ps3 games its secound on 
 hours played (first is oblivion) .
  
  Overall i would recomend resistance to any fps fan but you really need online access to get the 
 most out of this title!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: astex
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  one of the best shooting up games ever made because the graphics is brilliant and the gameplay 
 is good and online is the best thing ever its so fun going around killing other people all around 
 the world and talking to them if you have bluetooth and its all free and this will be going on 
 for a long time they will make 2 and 3 and 4 because its great and i will bu them all. resistance 
 fall of man is one of the first ps3 games made and proves how good the ps3 is and its better than 
 halo3. resistance is the best 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:23 pm PT
Review:  Every Sony fan or everyone who has a PS3 has probably got this title. Now people thought this would 
 beat Halo, however it doesn't.
  
  Starting with the bad, it doesn't bring anything new to the Shoot Em' Up genre, and after completing 
 the long story, you can't be bothered to play it again to unlock more weapons. The online multiplayer 
 isn't that good either, for the same reason. Insomniac has never made a decent game where you could 
 play the game for endless hours (think of Elder Scrolls &amp; Timesplitters) so the next Resistance 
 game that has been rumoured to come out November 2008, might not be worth getting.
  
  The only good point I can think of would be the graphics, as this does pass Halo 3's grahpics. 
 However, just because a game has good graphics, doesn't mean it will be a good game (Think of Spider-Man 
 3 Special Edition for the PS3) .
  
  This game should only be bought for people that are new to the Shoot Em' Up genre, anyone else 
 that isn't, just get Medal of Honour: Airborne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cosmostein77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I will be the first to admit that PS3 is the first console I did not get at launch since the Sega 
 Saturn. It wasnt a cost or even a lack of product issue I was simply concerned with the lack of 
 games that appealed to me as a gamer,
  
  Five months later I ended up picking up the console and a few months after that I opted to get 
 my hands on the flagship exclusive and give it a try. The reason I must note this is because perhaps 
 had I played Resistance in November of 2006 my experience may have been different, but this is 
 my attempt to put my review in context. First off the 40 player online and the stunning graphics 
 are both huge pluses and the fact that I can always find a game online is a nice bonus. Although 
 my issue simply has to do with staying power, I know that most FPS are suppose to be 90% Online 
 and 10% single player but I simply find myself playing a game with a very interesting concept in 
 terms of the story and what you are setting out to do, but I take great issue with the fact that 
 story development seemed to be secondary to the game play. Now I understand this is a FPS, and 
 as such I should not be expecting RPG style depth of story or development of Characters, but the 
 underdevelopment almost comes off as intentional. I will say this however, Nathan Hale comes off 
 as one hardcore trooper but aside from that its really just you trying your best to fill in the 
 blanks. As for the game itself, I may be one of the few people that greatly enjoys the health bar 
 system which is generally broken up into four sections and your health will only refill to the 
 nearest empty section which actually requires you to put some thought into your next move and takes 
 away the Halo mentality of hiding behind something till you are ready to simply jump back into 
 the fray once more. With that said I could see it annoying many FPS fans who are use to this training 
 wheel health system that Halo and the COD series has got most players use to. Credit also has 
 to be given to the AI design within the game. You have a nice balance between the bone stupid AI 
 of Killzone and the See you coming three floors away super intelligent AI of XIII. Its nice 
 and for once its a reasonable challenge. There are portions of the game that are hard, but not 
 hard for the sake of being hard simply hard because you need to think strategy in order to beat 
 that section of the game. Truly a rewarding challenge rather then a fill the room with enemies 
 challenge. Graphically, I need to explain my bias upfront so readers can put my bias into context. 
 When the 1080i/1080p debates were hearting up in 2006 I waited to make sure I could get a very 
 large TV with 1080p support, not just for the PS3 but clearly for Blu-Ray and the new 1080p HD-DVDs 
 as well. Needless to say about a year ago 1080p was much pricier then 1080i, and I went with then 
 1080p unit. Much to my surprise, Resistance Fall of Man supports 720i HD resolution, not 1080p, 
 or even 1080i. To many this is not a big deal, and honestly the game itself in terms of levels 
 and enemies is still stunning and looks next gen, but this is an aspect that annoys the heck out 
 of me, and perhaps can be forgiven because it was a launch title but should still be noted. Aside 
 from that, the game is stunning. The levels looks amazing, the characters friend and foe look great 
 this is what I expected from a PS3 next generation FPS and was not let down at all when it came 
 to the graphic aspects of the game. Sound and Lighting effects I would like to cover on their own. 
 Many gamers consider loud to be their primary target when they gauge the quality of sound in 
 a game but I have always been a firm believer that sound and lighting effects are the unsung heroes 
 of setting the tables for the more dominate aspects of the game to take form. Resistance does a 
 marvelous job on both aspects, the weapons sound correct the lighting is great and the general 
 mood of the game is well set by both these aspects. As for multiplayer, I have a few issues. 
 Now I understand that Sony online is free and thats wonderful but on some day when I am online 
 playing Resistance the old saying I get what I pay for comes to mind. I understand that lag can 
 be an issue that is beyond the control of the online server but at times I wonder if there is some 
 sort of minimum that Sony should institute in terms of bandwidth of its users because as cool as 
 a 40 player online aspect may be you will be lucky to find 40 users where not one has some sort 
 of connection issue. At first I would have blamed this on Johnny Gamer who has a slow connection 
 or the fact that the more people you play with the more likely you are to slow down because as 
 most know the game is as fast as the slowest connection but after laggy game after laggy game it 
 really did hinder my enjoyment to a point where now if I am playing online it will be with friends 
 or people I know to have quicker internet as to assure that I get a fast moving and fast paced 
 game. This was my Online FPS of choice till Halo 3 rolled into stores, but now when it weighs itself 
 against the next generation of FPS as wonderful as Resistance was, it is a game that hit the market 
 about a year ago and when compared to games of today it shows. If you are a PS3 owner, you owe 
 it to yourself to get your hands on it. Even if its just to see Sonys first steps into this generation 
 and if you can find a collection of friends online that have a solid connection you will find it 
 to be a wonderful online experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldust
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  This game will have you keep going back for more. with a very good storyline
  and a highly addictive online.
  With a great choice of weapons. The online play is super with 
 40 player online with no lag any FPS fan will love this game. Its allot of fun getting all the skill 
 points on single player . And the game gets even better second run through on super human with 
 even more guns. lots of maps online and also lots of players online . online you play as a Human 
 or a chimeran
  You can Customize you're human but not chimeran sadly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkhead66
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 6:46 am PT
Review:  resistance is about ww2 instead of human you fight aliens, you play as american helping with the 
 war in england.
  
  this game is awsome has a great story, great graphics for the ps3, the best launch game for the 
 ps3. the guns are awsome, the aliens are awsome and there are lots of them, also there are good 
 interation with the people around you and they don't say the same thing over and over.
  
  the online modes and play is awsome, playing with friends is awsome and also if you have headsets 
 so you can talk. great action while playing, there is no lag it just great.
  
  overall its a great game to play one of the best and one of the best online games to play at the 
 moment on the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I bought for my Playstation 3. Partly because of the hype/reviews and partly 
 because there was a used copy sitting right there when I was buying my Playstation 3. It ended 
 up being a solid ourchase that I was not disappointed with.
  
  The graphics are very good, except for some textures, but there is a great amount of character 
 detail. All the windows and most cover is destructible. There's some good lighting and shadow work 
 as well. Overall it's no "graphics king" but it's still a great looking game.
  
  The sound is fine but nothing special. It has a passable soundtrack with some very good gun and 
 explosion effects. There's some solid voice acting as well.
  
  The gameplay is smooth and feels overall very solid. The variety in guns is great, and the developers 
 payed a lot of attention to detail when making them. The alternative fires all have their uses. 
 Using the Siaxis to throw the aliens off of you occasionally is fun, and not overused. The campaign 
 is pretty fun although somewhat predictable. The A. I. is a contender for the best I've seen in 
 a game. 
  
  The only complaints I have with this game is that the combat itself isn't very original and there 
 are already a ton of FPS games out there, and its a shame to see a developer like this that is 
 so good at platformers move to shooters. If you have a Playstation 3, I highly recommend this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer_marrik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is the best FPS to date for the ps3... It's story is both compelling and 
 difficult. The online experience makes this game worth buying.
  With up to 40 players online, it is quite revolutionary in it's tactics. The one thing that Resistance 
 could have improved upon, is split-screen online multiplayer. Haze and warhawk will be the first 
 games to do so. In resistance, you have the option to play as a human or as a Chimera. The Chimera 
 have the ability to go into a rage mode, that allows them to see through walls and run faster, 
 but take increased damage. This is perfect for an online game, allowing you to sneak up on someone, 
 or hide behind an obstacle for the right moment. Humans make up for the lack of rage by starting 
 with one frag gernade, and being allowed to run constantly without a loss of health. All-over this 
 is a must buy game for the ps3 that will have you playing for months to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HATECREWrulz123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  The end of Halo's reign of dominance has finally ended. Resistance: Fall of Man revolutionizes 
 the FPS genre with its intelligent AI and fantastic weapons; also, Resistance contains an online 
 multiplayer that rivals the best of the genre.
  
  The story is a unique twist on history which immediately creates an interesting plot. You are Nathan 
 Hale, an American soldier sent, along with a large military force, to assist England in a fight 
 against the Chimera, an alien race that has taken over all of Europe, which began in the 1940s. 
 As you progress you become infected with the Chimeran Virus, which begins to convert you into a 
 Chimera; you also begin to uncover the mystery of the Chimera and where they came from. By the 
 end of the game you will still be left with questions, but this only helps to build the mystery 
 surrounding the Chimera and their origins. The story of Resistance is interesting and unique, and 
 as Insomniac release sequels, the story of Resistance will only become better.
  
  The graphics, least important part, are very impressive and are a testament to the power of Playstation 
 3. The character models are incredible, so it was a truly amazing sight to see the Chimera for 
 the first time. The environments also look incredible. The terrain you will be crossing is very 
 diverse, from the Streets of Manchester, the grassy Cheddar Gorge, the underground tunnels of the 
 Chimera, to the Frozen River Thames, you will be enjoying every sight. The graphics are not the 
 best on PS3, but they are a demonstration of the platforms power.
  
  The sounds in Resistance consist mainly of firing guns and Chimeran growls. Although the soundtrack 
 doesn't really stand out while you are fighting Chimera, the sounds of the guns, the voice acting, 
 and the Chimera surround you with a great-sounding experience.
  
  The gameplay of Resistance is what really stands out. The game follows the same basic formula of 
 a FPS with fast paced action and difficult battles. The weapons are what makes Resistance unique. 
 With a fantastic arsenal of weapons including the basic automatic rifles, to the bullseye ( tags 
 enemies to home in for more accurate shots) or the auger, a gun that can create cover and shoot 
 through walls. Every gun has a secondary fire which really widens your options in combat. Insomniac 
 did a fantastic job of bringing the creative weapons of Ratchet and Clank, to a gritty FPS, and 
 the weapons of Resistance will always stick in my mind.
  
  Finally, the multiplayer is one of the best I have ever played. The online multiplayer contains 
 all of the modes you would expect, like deathmatch and capture the flag; however, what makes Resistance's 
 multiplayer stand out is its unique modes, like Conversion, in which you play as a human, but if 
 you die you convert to a Chimera, and even though they recently added more maximum lives to this 
 game mode, it is still intense and fun. Playing as Humans and Chimera are good counterbalances 
 of each other which can make the online experience really fun. The only thing that keeps this multiplayer 
 from being flawless is the lack of an online CO-OP, but this doesn't drag the game down to much.
 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a new idea which revolutionizes the FPS genre, and even if there are 
 a few minor problems, there is still a sequel coming in which these problems can be fixed. (Can't 
 Wait) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhunt
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Im sorry for the people who bought this game Resistance: Fall of Man does it even deserve an 8.5 
 the only thing i likes about this game was the graphics the gameplay was ok but it could be alot 
 better then what they did with it the online was terrible i did it see what people liked about 
 it you die so fast you dont get enough time to get the enemy but then again it must be one of those 
 fast past FPS's. but im glade i only spent 35 on it and not full price Rainbow six vegas is a much 
 better game then this wil every be i mean come on its based on ww2 and it has future looking weapons 
 damn come on even your gunna make a ww2 shooter make the weapons old school style not old school 
 with gayness to it please this game is a wast of time id rather play testress 100 times then this 
 piece of crap even your team mates die as fast as you the aliens must have some sort of hidden 
 shield beacuse it takes me a hole clip just to kill one of them the explosions are ok they really 
 could of dont alot better with this game its like they spent alot of money on it and they were 
 in such a hurry to get it out it stillhas alot of problems to deal with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GJK_WW
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  Resistance is just such a wonderful game, the graphics are great, sound is good and it has an intresting 
 storyline.
  The singleplayer campaign is really well done, it dosent tell you the whole story but it leaves 
 you wanting to know more. Each level is large and full of action. Heated battles occur in nearly 
 every level, and the game always has a good flow to it. The enemy (Chimera) are intresting foes 
 and come in all shaped and sizes, and seem smart enough to take cover or ambush you. The weapons 
 in this game are amazing, from carbines to bullseyes and augers there is no shortage of weapons 
 to up the intensity of battle.
  The controls are easy to learn and master.
  The game difficulty can get really had, even on normal, but it just means you have to work at getting 
 better.
  Multiplayer is on element that im not really into, but i decided to give it a try.
  IT IS GREAT, 
 i did not have one problem getting connected to games or lag issues, multiplayer is a challanging 
 part of resistence with everyone just killing each other, it will take all your skills to master 
 this.
  
  In all resistence is truly a great game, Graphics and Sound are great, has an amazing storyline 
 and solid multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elchiquilin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  Well, Resistance is one of the games the PS3 launched with, and to tell you the truth this game 
 is really good to be a launch game (most launch games are basic games to get the costumers used 
 to the console) , it gives a little in-sight of what future PS3 games could become.
  
  In this game you play the role of Nathan Hale, an American soldier sent along the U. S. army in 
 the 50&acute; s to help Europe (More specifically England) fight an Enemy that has wiped out most 
 of Europe, though this enemy isn&acute; t human, this enemy is an alien species called the Chimera.
 
  
  The chimera treat began in Russia end expanded at an amazing rate, taking Europe by surprise, one 
 characteristic that makes this enemy hard to take on is the fact that they regenerate by themselves, 
 are amazingly strong and that each of the Human losses just means another chimera unit, as they 
 convert humans on their own kind.
  
  The first day with my PS3 I loaded Resistance and was killed in a matter of 10 minutes, being used 
 to the usual go shoot everything that moves kind of game the chimera crushed me in minutes, this 
 is a game where you need to take cover and think how to get around the enemy as in most cases confronting 
 them face to face just means death.
  
  The campaign itself is pretty satisfying , giving you many hours of fun; It is a long campaign 
 divided in a 4 day time line (July 11-July 14) , There is also a sort of side-quest, which is the 
 recollecting of Intel Documents, which apart from providing you with more story backup give you 
 rewards after collecting a number of them. The game features an in-game achievement system, though 
 those achievements are only visible on online game play.
  
  Now, the on-line game, well I will not make one long review here, It&acute; s good and not lagging, 
 there are 2 types of games, Ranked and not ranked, each divides in team goals and free for all 
 games, there is the death match, team death match , capture the node (similar to capturing the 
 flag) , map pack mayhem (The same just that features a map pack you have to buy) and conversion 
 (My less favorite) where the player has 6 lives, when depleting them the player converts to chimera 
 and if he dies he is out of the game.
  
  Just as a last note to online: If you happen to be a human character you will have a very advance 
 radar and the ability to crouch by tapping l2, if you happen to be a chimera you will lack an advance 
 radar system, but by tapping l2 you will enter rage mode, which will allow you to go faster, apply 
 more damage on melee attacks and see your enemies trough the walls. tough after a time this starts 
 consuming your life gauge and eventually (if you don't exit rage mode) you&acute; ll die.
  
  Resistance is worth a buy, a must have for all PS3 owners, and by the way, rumor has it They&acute; ll 
 be more than one Resistance game (Just play and see..) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 8:42 pm PT
Review:  As I see it, Resistance: Fall of Man is a great FPS. Of course it's graphics are great, but aside 
 from that, there are 30 levels in the storyline. Most FPS games only have about 10 levels making 
 Resistance much longer, which isn't quite a bad thing. There are 3 standard difficulties like most 
 games which are Easy, Intermediate and Hard. If the game is beaten once, you can unlock the 4th 
 difficulty Superhuman. Great for hardcore players who want to show what they can do. Multiplayer 
 mode is average based, nothing special here. Now here's my favorite part of the game and what makes 
 it so damn good. The weapons! Weapons in Resistance are very creative and go beyond limits of what 
 other weapons have showed in other FPS games. For example, one weapon shoots out giant balls that 
 can explode when you want them to. Another weapon can shoot like a turret gun in your own hands. 
 Another weapon --- blah, blah, blah. Overall, If your looking for a shooter game, Resistance is 
 definetely something to consider getting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjkowal
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  I loved this game. Having played Gears of War, I wound up liking this release better for the PS3. 
 The story line kept me hooked all the way to the end and occasionally made me jump out of my seat. 
 The sound design and acting was really solid, though I wish Hale was a little more interesting 
 in the cut aways. The action was typical FPS, but some of the weapons were unusual and smart and 
 really relevant to certain situations. The gameplay was a CHALLENGE. I died a LOT, and that was 
 just on medium hardness. The creatures get a lot more aggressive and you take a lot more damage 
 as you get closer to the big ending. I would say that the visuals we're solid. They weren't breakthrough, 
 but they were very good. I'd argue that GoW looked better, but there is a much more pronounced 
 depth of field in R: FoM, giving a more cinematic quality. Very entertaining all around. Highly 
 recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  Resistance was the first great selling title on the ps3. It is still the top selling game on the 
 ps3 now, although it is ready to be eclipsed by the release of Warhawk. Resistance features a great 
 story, and lagless fun online multiplayer and offline split screen and coop. The single player 
 of this game is intense. You play as Srgt. Nathan Hale who is part of the US. Ranger force that 
 is sent to England to help fight off the Chimera (alien like mutants of humans) The story has several 
 gripping features, and this game has awesome, sad, and mortifying cut scenes, these are actually 
 some of the best cut scenes I have seen in a video game since halo! The single player has absolutely 
 no bugs that I have found, and no one I know has ever reported any. As far as the multiplayer goes, 
 Resistance has a lagless dedicated server network that is owned by Sony Computer Entertainment. 
 Therefore you will be satisfied to know that the servers are never down unless a patch is being 
 rolled out. The multiplayer features mic chat and clan support, as well as letting you access your 
 friends list to invite friends to games. Resistance is more of a run and gun shooter, however splitting 
 up into squads will be more effective than running solo. The offline multiplayer is also great. 
 This will let you play 4 player split screen in various game modes, you can also play a 2 player 
 coop. which features all the missions and cut scenes and the same story as the single player. So 
 it isnt a watered down version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PriorChaos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 10:50 am PT
Review:  Resistence is indeed one of the greatest FPS's to date. High speed action, challenging AI. The 
 fact that the game will change opponent positions make's it impossible to predict. With amazing 
 visuals and immersing weapons creates a masterpiece. The massive online deathmatches and ranked 
 matches make it a superb play for online users. It offers what many FPS players look for and more. 
 Any PS3 owner should have this title in their collection. An engaging storyline keeps you curious 
 till the end. Offering Single player and Co-op Campaigns Also make this title great for something 
 to just hang out and play with your friends. Using the Six-axis controllers response to shake enemies 
 off of you or put your self out if your unfortunate enough to be lit aflame was a large step for 
 gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lawsu1t
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 2:59 am PT
Review:  Resistence fall of man is one of the best first person shooters on PS3. The storyline is intresting 
 and keeps you guessing untill the end. It has a learning curve of around half an hour the controls 
 are easy. it has four levels of difficulty superhuman is the hardest you unlock it after playing 
 and beating the campaign on hard. the weapons in this game are intresting because of their secound 
 functions the weapons are like no other. Gameplay: 9
  Sound: 8
  graphics: 9
  fun factor: 10
  overall: 9.5
  
  if you like area 51 then you sould definatly give this a 
 go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackconlon5
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:48 pm PT
Review:  this game is good for the ps3 it has a good reputation for its online but the 1st player mode is 
 too short like most of the games but i think this is a rad game i will give it a 8out of 10 but 
 it is good for its co op because it is just crazy and fun. the thing is it is to good but to bad 
 because they mostly rush there games and then they ruien it but if you like online you should get 
 this game because that is thy only thing that i am proud of that game rock dude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobbakemp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Not only does this game have a great range of weapons but it also has beautiful and believable 
 environments to cause chaos in. The only thing this game lacks in my opinion is online co-operative 
 story mode.
  Despite the fact that this game feels a handles just like every other FPS available, what really 
 sets this from the rest of the crowd is the A. I. you'll be fighting are both aggressive and quite 
 intelligent foe, unlike most games where the enemy face you and fire randomly, the Chimera a. k. a. 
 bad guys will try to flank you, set traps and snipe you from rooftops. This game is a prime example 
 of what the PS3 is really capable of. This is without a doubt one of the best FPS I have ever played. 
 Amazing multi-player both on and offline this game proves to be a must have for all PS3 owners.
 
  Z? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breackneckboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 11, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Resistance is an FPS in a plot that is a substitute to World War II (because it didn't happen in 
 the Resistance side of history) It has you in the shoes of a no-nonsense American soldier called 
 Nathan Hale. Basically a strange race called the Chimera suddenly appear out of nowhere and take 
 over the whole of Europe in two months. The Americans then send 5,000 U. S troops to help the British. Hale 
 is part of the second wave of the assault and then introduces you to a very much interesting opening 
 level that shows you the ropes. Don't worry about dying here. You won't lose anything. Only thing 
 that happens is that you have a full health bar again! After all the carnage, you seem to be the 
 only American soldier left.
  
  A few (a really very few!) vehicle sequences are thrown in, and they are a welcome excursion from 
 all the shooting on foot, as they are more powerful and you can run over your enemies instead of 
 wasting those precious bullets.
  
  Most of the campaign has you fighting most of the Chimeran alone. Not that it's bad, it just gets 
 really spooky like something out of Resident Evil. And you would just like some company once in 
 a while. But now and then, you would scratch your head and wonder, If Hale can single-handedly kill 
 all those monstrous beasts, then why did entire armies of a million men get killed? 
  
  The weapons here are competely unique just like in the Rachet and Clank series. The guns are all 
 fantastically designed and are completely believable and make sounds that totally match with the 
 gun. The shotgun sounds like a shotgun and the M5A2 Carbine rifle sounds just like it should sound 
 like. Its a game that lets you kill your enemy in a completely satisfying way! Like when you get 
 the sniper rifle, you can go slow-mo while zooming in, shoot a bad guy in the head and watch all 
 the blood fly and the alien go down in splendid slow-mo.
  
  All the levels look excellent and lots of objects can be destroyed in the environment. Bad thing 
 is, even though there is lots of cover, the Chimera would either shoot bullets that go though cover 
 or destroy your cover (i. e. cars would explode and broken walls will crumble apart from fire.)
  
  Sometimes you would just get sick of dying from the Chimera. After all, checkpoints are sparse, and 
 checpoints are, well, almost five minutes apart! But the battles eventually do get interesting, and 
 they make it a bit worth it to fight all of those 5 minutes of deja-vu.
  
  Oh, and the audio. The Chimera sometimes growl, soldiers cry for help, and the sound of gunshots are 
 all perfect and give a good atmosphere to the battlefield. In spooky levels where you fight alone, a 
 few frightening orchestral pieces are thrown in, and give a really good fright at times.
  
  Overall, Resistance has a lot of good points, and some bad that prevent it from getting a 10, but 
 it looks like Insomniac's second spin-off on First Person Shooters is an amazing sucess! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: monkey-squable
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 9:17 pm PT
Review:  im going to start out saying i dont have this game my freind does and we play it every time i go 
 over there, weve beaten about five times and we were talking today and i said hey lets right a review 
 so here we are. soooo lets start.
  
  Resistance fall of man, the work of insomniac games the creater of ratchet and clank series and 
 thats not a suprise since the cover had a big sticker on the front on the box said guns from the 
 creaters of ratchet and clank.
  
  if you like halo or half life then you will feel right at home .the enviorments are never bland 
 or boring for some reason evrey level feels diffrent than the other time you went through it. so 
 to close this review its a really good fps with some down falls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shieldsy09
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 9, 2007 11:10 am PT
Review:  Resistance follows an alternate past, in which there was no WWII, but an alien invasion. These 
 aliens known as Chimera infect the humans to turn them into their own species and slowly move their 
 way from conquering Russia to Europe and finally Britain, where the game is set.
  
  As what could be argued to be the PS3's only decent launch title, Resistance is a solid enjoyable 
 game. The controls are easy to use, and follow suit of all FPS games on consoles.
  
  The graphics are some of the best seen in the Launch Games, with detailed players and envrionments. 
 The large selection of alien influenced weapons mean the game is not just copying the generics 
 and has given each weapon its own characteristices, such as the Auger, which can shoot through 
 walls.
  
  The storyline is solid, with several plot twists along the way. The game takes you through many 
 cities in the UK, such as York and Manchester (where complaints were raised about the violence 
 occuring in Manchester Cathedral in the game) , all of which are revisitable as maps in the Multiplayer 
 experience.
  
  You play the games as Nathan Hale, an American soldier sent to save the British after the invasion 
 of the Chimera. The chimera are the alien race that have been taking over Russia and steadily spreading 
 throughout Europe before reaching Britain.
  
  Throughout the story you meet increasingly difficult types of the Chimera from ones with bog-standard 
 weapons to Chimera that don't possess any weapons but charge at you like bloody thirsty maniacs.
 
  
  Online, however, only the standard type of Chimera can be used. Online is where Resistance will 
 sap your time up once you have completed the main story and thankfully it is a solid performer. 
 Choosing from Ranked (official) or Unranked (private) games, you then have a selection of the usual 
 game modes, Team Deathmatch, Deathmatch and Capture the Flag.
  
  While it is fun and will keep you playing Resistance for a long time, it is by no means revolutionary. 
 One major annoyance to me is the option for One Hit Kills is almost always selected on Unranked 
 games and this makes playing Capture the Flag a right pain in the arse (cue camped players with 
 their guns pointing at their own flags waiting for an enemy) , but apart from that the online play 
 is mainly painfree. Thankfully lag is also non-existant.
  
  Whilst Resistance wont be played in a few years when the big guns come out, it is a solid shooter 
 to keep you tied over until then, with enjoyable story and online, it is ultimately the King of 
 the Launch games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacificjohn
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 9, 2007 8:32 am PT
Review:  There are several aspects to this game that I feel should take up a review: the gameplay, the multiplayer 
 online, and just the sheer story. First off is the gameplay. About the only word to describe it 
 is sheer dynamite. From the second you are dropped on the battlefield to the final boss battle, 
 the gameplay rarely ever gets dull. About the only way *not* to be impressed with the gameplay 
 is to be a rabid hater of first person shooters like this or simply to not have a pulse. Anyone 
 else should find this game more than enjoyable. Second up is the online multiplayer. This is the 
 aspect of the game that I can get lost on for hours! Several varieties of combat including capture 
 the flag, last man standing (Deathmatch) , team last man standing (Team Deathmatch) , and finally, 
 team assault (Breach) make up the majority of the online games. Every single one of them is fun 
 and I suggest anyone who doesn't have an online connection yet with their PS3 to get it just for 
 this. And finally, the story. The very first cutsequence has you clutching the controller for dear 
 life as you find out what little is known of the enemy. Every level after that, another cutscene 
 comes along that shows off the graphic brilliance of the PS3 and why I love this console (and game 
 also) . To sum it all up, simply looking at this game on a normal 480p television was still mind-blowing 
 and I would love nothing more than to hook it up to the largest HDTV out there to see what remnants 
 of my imagination would be left over after Resistance finished having its way with me. If you don't 
 own this game yet, make sure you get it the first chance you get or even put this review down and 
 go over to your local game store and purchase a copy. John 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MonkishGamer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  Playing Resistance Fall of Man for the PS3, I get several feelings. One of them is somewhat the 
 PS3's longevity. It can produce some pretty good games. Although I am known to be a PS3 hater. 
 Since this is a PS3 game, it is pretty solid in the tech department. The graphics are nice, the 
 sound and voice acting are solid, and this was my first run with the next-gen physics, so I had 
 a pretty good time writing my name on the wall with bullets. Basically, you play as Nathan Hale, 
 a man along with the other American troops that are sent to Europe to help out them (again) to 
 take out the alien Chimera. The weapons, being an Insomniac child, are as coolas ever, and are 
 the best part about the game. The game is pretty good in length, and provides an ok multiplayer. 
 You know, nothing like Halo. Overall, this game doesn't do anything like bring the FPS into next 
 gen, because Halo has done a pretty good job of that. However, if you're looking for a great game 
 for the PS3, go with Resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trojans_57
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  The game is hard knocks from beginning to end. It has loads of chimera that are ready to kill you, 
 with a couple other species of chimera that are fun to watch kill members of your team then he 
 turns to you and you blow it away. Online mode is the best feature to me. I have played online 
 so much that I go to bed dreaming about who I can own next. On online mode you start as a private 
 and work your way up to be a five star general or if you prefer a Supreme Commander . Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 8, 2007 10:17 pm PT
Review:  RFOM is a great 1st person shooter. Graphics are great. Game play is fun. Nothing really new added 
 to the genre, but what it does it does well. The campaign is a bit short, but multiplayer more 
 than makes up for it. Also after so many kill the Nazi's this was a new different take on the period. 
 The cutscecens were great, and storytelling OK. Many levels had a huge feel to them, but werent 
 overly large. Ending sets up nicely for a second game which we all know is coming. Hopefully they 
 can improve on what went right and have a really great game. Good all around game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tuckett-l
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a great game even though it does lack a bit of background information. Resistance 
 is a PS3 exclusive :) and shows what the next generation consoles can do. The frame rate is good 
 with few dips, loading times are not unbeareable and the graphics speak for themselves. If played 
 on the hardest difficulty it can be a very tactical game as well as being an out and out shooter. 
 The multiplayer is highly addictive and all will enjoy it. The different game modes add variety 
 and the new map packs are good but maybe should be free. Overall Resistance FOM shows what the 
 PS3 is capable of and is highly addictive on and offline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YankFreak
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Well while I personally do not own this game, I did beat it in a weekend... I seriously played non 
 stop. My hands were glued to the controller and my eyes riveted to the screen.
  
  For those who do know what this game is about its during WWII but instead of fighting the Nazis 
 you fight an alien race which is taking over the world. It has already taken over Russia and is 
 spreading westward towards France and England.
  
  You are a American Solider armed with a futuristic M5 assault rifle taking on these very ugly very 
 big and very noisy aliens. As you progress more weaponry is given to you, Hegdehog grenades, Alien 
 repeating blaster, a alien rail gun that fires through walls... all great fun.
  
  Anyway I wont tell any more secrets but I will tell you this there are many hidden letters/ documents 
 laying around... go find them unlock cool concept art etc. Also the are special tactics in the game 
 which will also unlock cool things... try to find THIS IS MY RIFLE, THIS IS MY GUN. Hint: You attack 
 a very big metal monster with only your M5 assault rifle...
  
  Have fun and BLOW EVERYTHING UP... oh and be careful of throwing grenades around, I became familiar 
 with the physics of explosions all too well.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Armeda
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 8, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  R: FoM is a very solid game with almost no problems at all. The online play is one of the best I've 
 seen this far with some nice rewards, match styles etc. The single player mode was also very good 
 and I give it a + because it can be completed in co-op. The story had its ups and downs. It was 
 very exciting, but it had too much jumping firstly you are in one city, than you are suddenly in 
 another one. The single player was a bit short. Only about 12 hours, but very entertaining 12 hours.
 
  
  There's not very much to say about R: FoM except that they really should make a sequel to this perfect 
 game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yankees_lover
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  over all this game is very good u should really get it but if this game never had online or the 
 online was crappy i would give this game a 7.5 to 8 because the campaine is good and all but it 
 does get boring. if u dont have online for your ps3 i say rent it first but if u do have online 
 this will be a really good buy and u will be happy that u got it. u know how most fps games online 
 has no stats or no rewards this game u want to keep playin becasue u want to get medals to get 
 u more stuff and gain levels and everything. so very good game also a great launch game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maddogg74
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I got Resistance: Fall of man when I got my PS3 when it was released in Australia in march and 
 I haven't stopped playing it since and have finished it about 30 times. The storyline was great 
 and the graphics are stunning. I played the game in multiplayer online and there is no lag at all 
 the new map packs are great and worth the download this is definitely a great game and is was worth 
 the time and money I spent on it I recommend the game to everyone who has a PS3.
  
  I cant wait for Resistance 2 if it comes out because this game was great and everyone who has played 
 it should agree with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS_4lyf
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  What makes this game good is that theres a different type of storyline to it then most other games.
 
  
  THE GOOD:
  Great Gameplay not to easy.
  Multilayer not bad.
  Co is alot of fun and the story line dosent change as if you were playing 1 player.
  
  THE 
 BAD:
  It needs to be more realistic.
  and the Six Aces ain't good at all.
  
  But overall it's better than a average game you get alot of fun out off it so this is why im ratting 
 this game 7.0 and you should rent this one first if it dident come with you PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer8001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  OK.... letz start off with the sound..
  
  1. SOUND -- 8 of 10/ fairly good 3d rendering, great action effetcts, perfect pitch,
  5.1 surround 
 sound .. sounds.. crisp.. sometimes cut-up.. due to the fast experince .. but at the end it sounds great.. for 
 a launch title without the best it still sounds fantastic... esspecially the explosions.. and voice 
 acting..8 out of 10
  
  
  2. ANIMATION -- 6.5 of 10/Explosions off the ground could be more realistic.. with spewing dirt.. but 
 it still connects to a great POW! explosion with minimal loss of distortion to the player.. but 
 a great LOL! I GOT YOU! type of explosion.... the photo gallery is fast and responsive with tons 
 of detailed HD
  pre-drawn WEAPONERY, VECHILE, SPIECIES, AND OTHER STUFF!.. in game faces look detailed under lighting 
 and shade.. eyes blink too!!
  
  fast response to movment, guns, and grenade launcherz! THE archetecure lookss very detailed -- from 
 the aspect of the gory blood, to the rune of the old rustic walls shinning in the light with a 
 slight glossy finish (much like a in the dark flash light on a biege tile....)
  
  3. CUSTIMIZATION -- 7 OF 10 /EVERYTHING FROM create clans... to character-  
 special details unlocked.. custom rankings... choose your game name... talk via headset...
  choose if u want normal vs. chimera, normal vs. normal, custom vs. chimera.. etc.
  
  4. ONLINE 
 AND THE FUN OF THE GAME!! -- 9 of 10/Resistance is that of a great everybody wants it game.. that 
 everyone should have!!... it iz very  with even a badge online 
 to signfy that u beat the game... strategic to elemnts of booby traps and sneaky enemys and bleive 
 it or not a great stealth game!!&gt; to conclude that it is a GREAT ONLINE GAME.... for the ps3 
 olny being out for almost a year,, it is very descent of a launch game... simply a must have..!! 
 RATED 9.5 OF 10 BY A GAMING REVIEW SITE... IGN OR GAMEINFORMER.... the online is very fast paced, due 
 to the game u chose... kill or be killed is the simple phrase.
  GREAT CLASSIC AND NEW MULTIPLAYER GAMES FOR ONLINE LIKE CAPTURE THE FLAG ,BREACH, ASSAULT, TEAM  
 upgradable firmware when devolper makes it avaliable... and global match making.... BUY LOCATIONS 
 AND OTHER STUFF VIA ==PSN (playstation network) .
  
  
  5. GRAPHIX -- 8 of 10/The reason resistance gets a 8 of 10 is because it is not a 1080 game but even 
 though 720p still looks nice and sharp.. but facial features look very detailed olny 15% of wat 
 the ps3 can do... WITH BLU RAY IT COULD OF SUPPORTED 1080I OR PROGRESSIVE..&amp; a tru array of 
 vivid detail.. the olny thing holding back that is TIME ... overall it is a great looking game!
 
  
  
  6. STORYLINE -- 8 of 10 the story line is fairly simple but exiciting .. cant see why HALO IS THE 
 BEST GAME .. but .. it is a good game about a soldeir etc. u kno that basis.. and the spieces of chimera 
 are comming in different forms to kill olny wats left.. ENGLAND itz getting eaten and KILLED EVERY 
 DAY! ... A basic plot and or movie storyline with little bits.. but overall appealing!..
  
  OVERALL ---I THNK U SHOULD GET THIS GAME, U WILL LIKE IT LIKE MICROSOFT LOVES HALO.. MAYBE NOT THAT 
 MUCH ACTUALLY.. THANX for reading ths!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miggi_Budo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Resistance will put you in the place and time of World War II, although it seems that WWII never 
 happened. If you are thinking: Oh no, another FPS WWII game! - don't worry, cause in this case, 
 Resistance has come up with something new. Your enemy are the aliens - or, even better, the Chimera. 
 So, you wont be using a Thompson or MP40... instead you ll be using plasma, ray and other guns from 
 the future . Speaking about the weapons, i need to say that the choice is huge, so everybody will 
 find some favorite weapon . The game play is great, and it ll take you about 10-15 hours to complete 
 the game... but believe me - its worth. Beside the single player game, you can also play Resistance 
 online, or split the screen to four parts like I did with my friend. This is so cool, you ll even 
 forget what time it is. You can choose between Humans and the Chimera. The Chimera are pretty cool, 
 cause they have the ability to look through the walls, but remember, while using this ability you 
 are loosing energy, so watch out. In this case, I recommend using a HDTV that is bigger than 32 
 , cause 4 player on the screen can be pretty tricky. One of the game modes i haven't mention is 
 Co-operative. Call a friend, get a second controller and play the game through co-operative. This 
 is pretty cool, since there are situations extra made for the (2) players, like driving vehicles. 
 Speaking about the vehicles, you ll get the chance to drive a buggy, tank and some kind of buggy 
 robots . All this is followed by great atmosphere - thanks to the sound and graphics. While the 
 sound is O. K., the graphical presentation is phenomenal (I repeat, this was a launch game!) . When 
 i first played the game, the graphics looked a bit washed out , but i got used to it (best example 
 for this case is CoD3) . Where ever you look, you ll see high-res textures and great attention to 
 detail. The A. I. is also great. On easy you wont have troubles, but every following stage up will 
 be harder and wont forgive your mistakes. The controls of Resistance is something i didn't like. 
 Every button is in use, but then, for some actions, you have to combine more buttons. For example, 
 changing weapons. It goes like this: you need to push the trigger button to call up a kind of bar. 
 There you ll see the weapons (talking about weapons, you have no limit, so you can carry as many 
 as you want) and you have to navigate to choose the gun you want (with heavy weapons its even hard... to 
 take the Bazooka or the Flamethrower, you have to push an extra button) . In action packed scenes, 
 you do not want to go through this, trust me. It is also a big pity that the game isn't using any 
 SIX AXIS support.
  Finally, Resistance is a great first person shooter every PS3 owner should get. If not for the 
 single player, get it because of the great multi player. Lets make something clear: Resistance 
 never tried to be a launch substitution for Killzone2. Resistance: Fall of Man is a game for itself, 
 with its own community, growing every day. I mean, Sony has put Resistance in the Starter Pack 
 PS3 bundle. That means something. Once again, Bravo! to Insomniac Games... I cant hardly wait to 
 play and see Resistance 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fishdalf
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Good
  + A solid gaming experience
  + New and inventive weapons
  + Accessible controls
 
  + A whole host of multiplayer modes
  
  The Bad
  - Single-player feels limited
  - Some graphical bugs
  - Solid but never excels
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is essentially a science-fiction shooter; developed by Insomniac games 
 (the guys that brought you the ever-popular ratchet and Clank series) . The game had a big responsibility 
 on its shoulders from the get-go, not only was it one of only a few launch titles Sony were hoping 
 would sell their hardware but it was also expected to fill the void that Killzones delay had left 
 behind. Based in an alternate 20th century you take the role of the intrepid Sgt Nathan Hale  
 part of the last resistance against a race of hostile creatures known as the Chimera. These foul 
 beasts were created as a result of biological experiments performed in Russia and as is usually 
 the case they soon broke out in search of world domination. Already over-run youre sent to England 
 in an attempt to stop the chaos from spiraling any further; in the hopes of finally putting an 
 end to their dastardly ways once and for all. As it is set in England youll visit famous cities 
 from throughout the country, from the sprawling citys of Manchester and London to the greener 
 pastures of Somerset, each one with their own unique look and feel.
  
  Youre aided along your journey by an impressive array of weapons, each one as useful and as creatively 
 brilliant as the next (surely you wouldnt have expected anything less from Insomniac right?) . 
 The Bullseye allows you to tag an enemy and then send a volley of fire their way no matter how 
 desperate they are to evade your fire. The Auger on the other hand lets you fire shots through 
 walls and other various objects, perhaps this guns best feature though is its secondary fire. 
 This grants you the ability to throw up a transparent wall that allows you to fire shots at your 
 opponent while theirs feebly rebound against it; unless of course they too are equipped with an 
 Auger of their very own. The ammo is also distributed quite cleverly throughout the entire campaign, 
 pushing you to discover your entire arsenal in all its glory.
  
  It should take anywhere from 10 to 12 hours to complete this 4 day campaign first time around and 
 upon completion youll unlock new weapons for your efforts, these can then be used when you play 
 through a second time around in the search of the games many unlockables. Even though the maps 
 are all pretty big, the single-player in particular feels pretty limited, proving a somewhat linear 
 experience with very few ways to attack the levels and the enemies. The controls feel tight and 
 responsive, beginners and veterans should feel right at home. The only gripe I have with them is 
 the way you have to shake your controller when an enemy attaches itself to you. It feels unnecessary, 
 almost tacked on, only there to incorporate some form of motion-based control.
  
  The games difficulty levels are pretty well-balanced, easy is easy, medium is medium and hard is 
 guess what? Yes its pretty damn hard. The AI is intelligent no matter what, you will see the Chimera 
 cleverly taking refuge behind an assortment of objects and even flanking you down when needs be. 
 The only thing that seems to change between difficulties is the effectiveness of their weapons.
 
  
  The graphics do a pretty good job, especially when you consider this is a launch title. It cant 
 compete with the likes of Motorstorm but can definitely hold its own against the majority of other 
 titles the system has to offer. The visuals really go some in creating a sense of atmosphere and 
 the transition from one setting to the next is done effortlessly. The cut-scenes between missions 
 are also implemented superbly well, matching the in-game graphics to a tee. The animations arent 
 bad either, especially those sported by the Chimera; who look absolutely devilish. Unfortunately 
 though there are a few problems underneath the games polished surface. If you get too close to 
 certain objects for example you may experience some crazy twitching. Also killing enemies can result 
 in some pretty bizarre deaths, such as them sticking halfway through walls or leaning against an 
 invisible surface. The environments arent utilized very well either, they sure look nice but hardly 
 any of it is destructible and the interactivity is almost non-existent. The only thing you will 
 ever use (besides weapons) is the odd switch; you arent even equipped with an action button.
 
  
  The audio supports the visuals nicely and helps bring the whole package together. The enemies and 
 the environments sound positively eerie and the soundtrack builds tension well. While you wont 
 necessarily be frightened as you play through, the game does a good job in creating a sense of 
 impending doom that will stay with you for some time.
  
  There are more multiplayer modes found here than one person could ever need (over 40 in total) , 
 with old favourites like deathmatch and capture-the-flag making an appearance plus bizarre new 
 ones that see you swap from soldier to Chimera as you play. Online supports up to 40 players with 
 little or no latency problems to speak of, plus theres also a full-on co-operative mode (offline 
 only) so theres plenty to keep you occupied.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man doesnt reinvent a genre, it doesnt even come close, instead it borrows 
 bits and pieces from an array of other shooters. The way you regenerate your health for example 
 is similar to that of Call of Duty, healing if you keep yourself out of trouble for long enough. 
 I guess you could also equate it to the energy shields found in Halo. While it wont win any awards 
 for originality; what it does do is provide an ultimately solid experience with an incredible weapons 
 package, great game design, accessible controls and more multiplayer modes than you can shake a 
 stick at. As a game in its own right Resistance is worthy of your cash, as a launch title Id 
 go as far to say its a must-buy.
  
  UPDATE: The game now offers a downloadable map pack for It's users via the PlayStation Network. 
 It only includes two maps in total and neither get used that often in online play, this is probably 
 more to do with lack of sales as oppose to poor level design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slionheart_8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a great FPS. It has everything a great FPS needs. Great story plot, great weapons, 
 great extras, great maps, great gameplay and great multiplayer. But what lets it down is its graphics. 
 The graphics are supposed to be revolutionary but its just ordinary. It has a large amount of weapons 
 to choose from. From a normal Carbine to a weapon that can sent out explosive balls of alien technology, 
 the Sapper. But it runs low on grenade types. It isn't a Halo beater but Halo doesn't beat this 
 either. Maybe Resistance 2 will beat Halo 2 and maybe Halo 3.
  
  Overall, great game, worth the money but could be worth more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teo_7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Great gameplay and graphics and sound and etc. but the greatest is the online mates!
  Really rocks! Up to 40 players.
  Just magnificent online mode.
  Great job from Insomniac, not 
 sth original or prototype but this combo makes this FPS a must have.
  It isnt for 8.6 only, come on gamespot, at least 9 I dont know what was you thinking about when 
 you rated this game.
  Anyway, it's really a great game and a must have for all PS3 owners.
  Oh, and don't forget that it has also an offline multiplayer and a cooperative mode so these elements 
 make RFOM definetely fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tman93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 7:17 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is the PS3's main launch game, made by a good company called Insomniac 
 Games, the makers of the Ratchet and Clank series if you not familiar. A good game, but is it worth 
 buying a PS3 for? Gameplay wise, this game is top notch. There is plenty of action here for a any 
 gamer. The PS3 controls can slow it down though, as the Six Axis isnt too good for FPS gaming. 
 Another thing is the AI, its actually quite good, I had a hard time taking them down a lot of 
 the times, not that that is a problem, who doesnt like there game a little difficult? This game 
 also has a great multiplayer mode that increases the gameplay ten-fold. This game isnt quite innovative 
 either, but has rock-solid gameplay. Finally, if you know Insomniac, the guns in these games are 
 amazing, Insomniac makes great gun in their games. The story is average. It really sets its self 
 up for a sequel, but it has quite a good story, it just isnt presented well, there are brief cut 
 scenes that tell the story which is something that need to be improved. The graphics are one of 
 this games only set backs. They do only look like a touched up PS2 game, its got some really bad 
 textures, and next to no physics system to note, only an occasional plate that you can shoot up, 
 and a body that moves slightly. Later on in the game it starts to impress, the snow levels are 
 the best, but there still, not that great for the PS3 hardware. The sound in this game is also, 
 not that spectacular, there is a couple good songs, but none of it is memorable, the gun sounds 
 are great though, this is Insomniac, of course there going to be good guns. The Multiplayer is 
 what makes this game good though. Servers can go up to 40 players, and the community, for the most 
 part, is good, and there arent any hackers I can tell. Its great fleshed out multiplayer that 
 can be played for hours and hours. This is the greatest feature in the game. In conclusion, Resistance 
 is the PS3's best launch game, its really a bang for your buck, and you will need many bucks to 
 play it. The gameplay and multiplayer is top notch. The story, sound, and graphics could use some 
 touching up, but are not major problems. This is an all around solid game that is fun, with more 
 work, could have been a masterpiece, so close PS3, so close. -tman93 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alt_version
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man was quite a pleasant surprise for me. Originally I had no intention of buying 
 it, in fact when I first got my Playstation 3 I didnt buy it. It was only after messing with my 
 new system for a few days that I downloaded the demo from the PSN store had my first crack at it. 
 RFoM is a shooter that really takes the shooter genre in a new direction. Is it revolutionary? 
 No. In fact what makes it so enjoyable is that it takes some of the best concepts from other shooters 
 and makes them enjoyably unique. I dont mean to imply that this game feels ripped off in any way 
 shape or form, quite the contrary in fact. It feels refreshingly original because it behaves so 
 differently and takes the player on a different path than any other current FPS while still using 
 the same core concepts that made modern FPS games what they are. I think first and foremost, RFoMs 
 game play needs to be addressed. When I first played the demo, I died about ten times in a row, 
 but for some reason I still desperately wanted to keep playing. I learned quickly that this is 
 not Halo and enemies do not go down easy in Resistance. Even the most common enemy can take and 
 give quite a beating. The player must learn to adapt to a new style of combat in order to get anywhere 
 in this game. But the rules are always changing because of the ingenious weapons and enemy types. 
 I hate to compare everything to Halo unfortunately Halo seems to be the overbearing shadow on all 
 FPS games, soooo, unlike Halo RFoM manages to create enemy types that require entirely different 
 tactics than one another and because you are carrying a host of weapons you (more often than not) 
 have the right weapon for the job. This game is from Insomniac Studios, the creators of Ratchet 
 and Clank and a lot of that personally rubs off on RFoM in a good way, particularly in the weapons 
 department. The player can hold everyone weapon at a time so when you walk into a street where 
 an enemy squad is well entrenched you can opt to blast away with your assault rifle, lob grenades, 
 fire missiles, snipe, or use any of the variety of special weapon functions to dispatch them. The 
 weapons above all else are very innovative and unique. They add a very tactical element to the 
 game, knowing what works best and how to use it can make or break you in this game. The second 
 thing I learned very quickly is that you need to be on your toes all the time in this game. Take 
 pot shots from cover when you can, because, while your health does regenerate to a certain extent, 
 standing out in the open is a sure way to get splattered. Another interesting component is the 
 world around the player, much of it is interactive. Cars littering the streets can be shot until 
 they catch fire and explode; glass has a very unique breaking effect, many times in the game you 
 will find yourself using the lay of the land to help you win a fight. All in all RFoMs game play 
 is refreshingly fast paced, exciting and challenging all at the same time. Even on Hard mode the 
 game is still possible, but you do receive quite a punishment trying to get through it. The multilayer 
 is also extremely fun because both sides have different abilities to help them out and because 
 the matches can be so large (up to 40 players) . There are also several different game types to 
 keep players interested as well un-lockables for winning and killing. Speaking of un-lockables, 
 RFoM has a long list of achievements or skill points the player can acquire by doing (or not doing) 
 little things throughout the levels, as well as allowing the player access to new weapons after 
 the beat the game once. All in all the game play is fantastic and in my opinion deserves nothing 
 less than a Ive played through the game three times fully at this point, and Im still not bored 
 with the game, in fact I keep finding fun new things to do and collectibles and skill points to 
 get. (10) .
  
  Graphically RFoM is a feast for the eyes, but they are not the best graphics available and there 
 are some oddities throughout the game. While I would have liked to see the game a little crisper 
 graphically, it does display in 720p which still makes it look quite remarkable though some textures 
 remain strangely bland looking and low resolution in even in 720p. Fire effects leave a little 
 to be desired as they look almost cartoon-ish, but that isnt something that the player really 
 has time to notice unless they stand and stare at a burning car (I did, I wont lie) . One of my 
 absolute favorite little effects in this game is the glass shattering. The glass is done in such 
 a way that sections will break depending on where the next bullet impacts. This is done in a very 
 realistic way that really adds something to the enjoyment of looking around after a battle and 
 seeing what happened to the world around you. Animations and character models are quite well done 
 and strike a nice blend between realistic and stylistic. Overall the graphics are a very sharp 
 presentation and really help make the game fun to play and explore and look at. There are some 
 things that stick out nonetheless but they are minor all in all, (9) . Sound, well the sound in 
 RFoM is what you would expect from any next generation game, it is appropriately balanced to be 
 able to hear the fighting and the dialogs (which I must admit is far and few between, most of the 
 story building is done during cut scenes between levels rather than in game) . There are some points 
 in the game in which the audio quality stands out, grenades going off behind you sound particularly 
 cool. High quality, sometimes surprising, overall it is just what you would want and expect. Resistance 
 is a game that delivers on all fronts, it has classic feel to it while still offering completely 
 new and compelling game play. Though not without its flaws it is a must own for any gamer. (9.5) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazelnutman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of those games that keeps on giving. Done with the single player? 
 Play it again for extra skins, difficulties, secrets, unlockables, and guns. Have buddies over? 
 Go through the solid single player mode with a buddy. Want to Auger your friend in Mexico? Go online 
 with up to 40 human players.
  
  When you start the single player campaign, you're thrust into a grim world where you'd wish the 
 second World War had actually taken place. Instead, the world is under attack from a mysterious 
 virus/invasion of alien-like monsters dubbed the 'Chimera'. You play in the shoes of Nathan Hale, 
 a soldier for the US Military who ends up surviving a Chimeran invasion during a mission to help 
 their England buds out. For some reason, he's immune to this virus and instead gains many of the 
 Chimeran traits such as regeneration and awesome glowing eyes. Throughout the story, you'll uncover 
 more about the mysterious virus as well as take a lovely tour around the lovely countrysides and 
 cities of England... with guns. Lots and lots of awesome guns.
  
  If you know Insomniac, then you must know about their weapon design. This FPS game boasts an impressive 
 array of exotic weapons - from standard-issue military rifles to crazy alien spike launchers. Some 
 of the weapons do feel useless however, letting the great ones shine and the weaker ones to sit 
 in your weapons select menu, looking cool but not being very effective. The crazier weapons include 
 a lock-on 'tagging' rifle, a rifle that lets you shoot through walls and create barriers, and grenades 
 that explode into a mess of spikes. These weapons are woven into the fabric of the game play quite 
 well.
  
  The level design is great for the most part, although you might get lost a few times due to smaller-scaled 
 switches and war-torn environmental paths. Also, the check-point system seems very inconsistent 
 - sometimes being there appropriately, and sometimes not being there at all. The environments are 
 beautiful with England looking ever-so-beautiful for a PlayStation 3 launch title. Many things 
 can be rendered at once with almost no slow downs.
  
  The sound us also up to par with the visuals. Although the soundtrack consists of only a few songs, 
 it gets the job done in motivating you for your next big battle. The voice acting is well done 
 - although I'm a sucker for English accents, so I wouldn't quote me on that. The radio chatter 
 and panic is perfectly placed - letting you know exactly what the situation calls for from you. 
 The explosions are great with shell-shock/deafening roars from the battlefield being well placed 
 and executed. Even the fictional weapons are believable thanks to the fantastic sound design.
 
  
  When the single player story is done with, you can move onto the multi-player components. If you're 
 not up for playing the same single-player campaign with a buddy, then you can take your skills 
 online with up to 40 players. Although there wouldn't be many playing nowadays, there can be up 
 to 40 players at the same time with no lag. The modes consist of the usual affair - DM, TDM, CTF, 
 etc. Unless you sprint a lot in multi-player, you're going to get you and your dog embarrassed. 
 It's fast-paced, good 'ol shooting fun.
  
  Overall, Insomniac has delivered another solid addition to their already stellar track record. 
 With solid shooting mechanics, great story, and stellar multi-player components, Resistance: Fall 
 of Man is a hit no matter which way you look at it.
  
  ~Hazelnutman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Richard-1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 12:47 am PT
Review:  It is an awsome game with mind blowing graphics, The best level is in Manchester when you first 
 fight a stalker. My favourite weapon was the hail storm because of the auro turret that you could 
 fire out of it. The best grenade was the air-fuel grenade because it lets loads of gas out and 
 then burns the chimera to death. My favourite type of chimera are the angels because it is more 
 of a challenge to kill something that is flying and spraying poison at you. I can truthly say that 
 Resistance; fall of man was one of the best games that i had ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 3:37 pm PT
Review:  8.6 i think is way to low to give to such a great game. In no way is this game, lacking. Its beautiful, 
 fun, intense, great variety, awesome weapons, great story, and so much more! This is definately 
 the best shooter i have ever played, it is also the first PS3 game i have owned (the first game 
 i have played on it was Genji: Days of the Blade) . Definately belongs in every PS3 owners' library 
 and if you ask me, paying $500 just for this game makes perfect sense. Anyone who misses out on 
 this fantastic experience, is like a major Halo player never getting Halo 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LiK
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:23 am PT
Review:  Resistance is an interesting FPS game with some good ideas but the execution is a bit uneven. I 
 was excited to try out Sony's potential killer app but it seems maybe my expectations were too 
 high.
  
  The first thing you'll notice are the graphics. While sharp and solid, the art direction is fairly 
 generic. The majority of the game is very reminiscent of other WW2 shooters such as Medal of Honor 
 and Call of Duty. There are a lot of browns and greens throughout the game except for a couple 
 of chapters. While it was novel in the beginning of the game (since it was populated with Chimera 
 instead of humans) , the levels looked fairly boring and generic as you progressed.
  
  Speaking of the Chimera, their designs were decent but too many of them look too similar which 
 made fighting them quickly tiring. There were only a few enemies that looked different and they 
 didn't appear a lot compared to the grunts. While people rave about the guns in the game, I didn't 
 find them that special or different than any other FPS games out there. They looked nice but the 
 animations for the guns weren't anything special. Overall, the design and art direction for the 
 game were fairly generic.
  
  The sound and music is pretty good. The voice acting is solid but there's nothing overly memorable 
 or outstanding about them. It's good not great. The music is decent with a lot of WW2 style military 
 music that you'd come to expect from a game of this type. But it's not very memorable just like 
 the voice acting. I was bit disappointed that the game didn't have any strong musical scores to 
 pull you into the game either.
  
  Now we have the main meat of the game; the gameplay. Resistance is a strange mix of all types FPS 
 games that any other fellow FPS player has seen or experienced. The main game feels like it was 
 inspired from games like the Medal of Honor/Call of Duty series. There are lots of battles with 
 fellow soldiers and explosions everywhere. Later in the game, we have claustrophobic levels with 
 a lot of shadows that is similar to Doom 3 including plenty of enemy scares. Finally, there are 
 some levels which were clearly inspired by the Halo series with its sci-fi motif and structures. 
 I can also list a few levels where it reminded me of games like the Half-Life series etc. You can 
 tell that Insomniac was heavily influenced by all those games when they were making this game.
 
  
  But all those various styles didn't really help the game meld together. Some levels were wildly 
 inconsistent with its length. Some levels ended in a few minutes while other sections lasted a 
 good amount of time before you hit a checkpoint. It's somewhat annoying and made the game either 
 too easy or too hard. The enemy AI is also fairly dumb. They would either rush you or pop in and 
 out behind cover. They were extremely predictable and very easy to dispatch once you remember their 
 spawn points. I wasn't too impressed with any of the enemies in the game at all. I also found the 
 guns to be overrated by other reviews. Only a few guns were interesting but I didn't find them 
 that unique or fun to play. Their secondary attacks weren't that useful for me compared to their 
 primary attacks.
  
  Finally, the boring story. While the aliens in WW2 premise was unique, the narrative felt uninspired 
 and uninteresting. The main character, Hale, is as generic as it gets and we hardly learn anything 
 about the rest of the few characters we meet along the way. None of the Chimera show any sort of 
 unique intelligence nor do they have any personalities. I was fairly disappointed with the story 
 overall. I wish they developed the characters more and I really wish they made Hale more interesting. 
 Couldn't they give us more background on the military and Chimera enemies? I guess not.
  
  The real winner is the multiplayer. Logging into games is a breeze and matches are fun and relatively 
 short. The various maps are well designed and the amount of players in these games are great. I 
 had no lag when I was playing and finding a game is very easy and quick. This is the main reason 
 why you would want to play this game. It's a lot more fun than the single player by a large margin. 
 You will not be disappointed.
  
  Overall, Resistance is fairly generic FPS game which tried to take in too many ideas and ended 
 up with a lot of inconsistent levels and gameplay. The story is weak, the characters are forgettable 
 and the entire experience is not very deep. I had to force myself to beat the single player simply 
 because the levels were sooo boring. The single player is worth checking out, but the multiplayer 
 is what saves Resistance from mediocrity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RockaWuzHur
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  This game was actually very good for a while. It was very innovative on Isomniacs part I'd have 
 never thought they'd make a game like this. Its not about a cute little lombax running around shooting 
 guns that are twice his size. Its about chimera coming to earth and trying to take over. Its a 
 great Idea but the only problem that I have is there is no replay value in the game whatsoever. 
 Online is not very good either its average at best. The maps are very good but the gameplay is 
 no different from any other FPS you've ever played. The weapons are incredible though, they're 
 like nothing I've ever seen. Its am okay game but not something to blow alot money on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I love spooky Games with scary sounds and scary Monsters. i loved the Spiders crawler s that come 
 out in sworms at you. Fall of man is a long game and thats good things at frist part of the Game 
 at times get s kind of old because of the same old fighters that come at you. You kill 15 then 
 move on kill 5 more then move on to the next part so the frist 5-6 levels in Fall of man same old 
 same old on fighters so they could of mixed things up some . Over all Fall of man is a great Game 
 and Fun it is one more Game i did buy for my PS3. The online play i did not like again to many 
 rude people so not for me. So if you have a PS3 go out and buy Fall of man hard to go wrong with 
 this Great Game thanks Mars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnFangs_Endes
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man, is a FPS, in the vein of WWII Shooter's, yet has a mild twist; instead 
 of WWII happening, creatures known as the Chimera emerged and took over most of Eurasia.
  
  You play the role of Sergeant Nathan Hale; the one-man-army who manages to all but single-handedly 
 turn the tide of battle wherever he may go. Why's That you ask? Well that's because most all those 
 who join alongside you in battle are killed within moment's of their arrival. It sort of gives 
 the sense in that: your allies are nothing but mere cannon-fodder.
  
  The AI can definitely give a decent challenge, and the fact that some of them can shoot through 
 walls doesn't help either. However that can be countered with the fact that you sometimes get to 
 the kind of location where you can slowly snipe the cooling tubes off of your foe's back, all the 
 while hearing them utter deformed curses at you.
  
  -
  
  -Gameplay: It truly has fun gameplay; whether it's throwing a Frag Grenade off of a doorway into 
 a room crowded to the breaking point with Hybrids, to randomly shooting the Hailstorm off of a 
 corner hoping you're hitting something and not just alerting the AI of your presence, to shaking 
 of a randomly sneaky Menial using the Sixaxis functionality, and throwing down a Back-Lash Grenade 
 and watching as the Chimera that see you start their own moronic suicide's.
  
  -
  
  -Graphics: It has great graphics for being a first generation title, are rarely has any frame-rate 
 problems. While it generally has the Artistic style of most WWII Shooter's, it show's off it's 
 own flair whenever in a Chimeran Facility or when using their own weaponry against them. The general 
 colour palette fits well with the setting, and sets a proper mood.
  
  -
  
  -Sound: It has good sound in most instance's from: The sound effect's like when you hear the bullet's 
 hitting right beside you when you duck for cover. to the clanking of metal against metal if you 
 manage to duck behind a plate once a spike-mine gets set off, and to the hearing of your own foot-steps 
 in an eerily quite facility moment's before being ambushed by a plethora of Chimera. To the musical 
 score; which is a good one, when it either comes to setting the appropriate mood for War, to surprise 
 attacks, and even for moment's where it may make you jump from your seat, as in the Cheshire Tunnel's.
 
  
  -
  
  -Value: The game is of good quality, and will likely become a discounted Greatest Hits title in 
 due time, thus increasing it's value. So if you like the FPS genre, and aren't deterred by getting 
 ahold of an older title, or you just want to play one of the good Playstation 3 launch titles, 
 this should atleast make your try-list.
  
  -
  
  -Tilt: I found it to be a fun and immersive game; occasionally letting myself get dragged into 
 the the game's world: either on purpose, or by accident (like in the Cheshire Tunnels) . The fact 
 that your allies die within moment's of you meeting them adds to the sensation that you're a one-man-war-machine, 
 and the rather large armory that you carry around with yourself helps to enforce this feeling. 
 It gives you a feel of dread for moving onto the next room, hoping that you may come across some 
 Human-Shields , only to be met with a small army of Leaper's chasing you though the former corridor's 
 as you try to shake them off, to the feel off curiosity through the Intelligence Reports you find 
 scattered all across the many battlefields.
  
  -
  
  I truly found this to be a fun game, and am still enjoying it whenever I play it. I honestly hope 
 that they would make a sequel for it at one point or another.
  
  =
  
  All-in-all, Insomniac has created a fun and immersive Universe in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is truly a nice way to kick of the PS3. Developed by Insominac (Ratchet) , 
 it was bound to be a great acheivement and it is. The game is set in 1951 Britain when a infected 
 and mutated race called the Chimera are waging war aganist the human race to take over the world. 
 The game follows Sgt. Nathan Hale an American Soldier who in the intial stages of the game gets 
 infected but has some kind of immunity to the virus. He goes through England fightning in different 
 battles with help from his British soldiers and contact from the regements leader a British female. 
 Gameplay: The gameplay is the key in this game, its to some degree perfect to handle. The sensitivity 
 is perfect and so are the controls. You start of with one gun but later on in the game you acquire 
 quite a few, some with alien technology. The game has a similar system to Killzone where you have 
 a primary fire (R1) and a secondary fire (L1) . Online is another key to this games success. You 
 just want to play game after game after game. You can play matches up to 40 players, where you 
 can choose from a variety of matches including: Deathmatch, Meltdown, Breach, Assualt etc. The 
 stat page gives you the 411 on your skill, clan, achievements and much more. Overall the gameplay 
 is excellent, and is the key in this games greatness. And its the gameplay that puts it aside from 
 any WWII game and really making it a modern yet enjoyable experience.
  Graphics: The graphics are excellent, throughout the game there are not alot of cut scenes, but 
 when they come they are not a big deal. They offer almost the same degree of graphics as the actual 
 in game graphics. Overall graphics arent mindblowing but certainly excellent. Concludng comments: 
 Resistance Fall of Man is a must to be checked out. Its gameplay is really great and perfect, with 
 a decent campaign and addictive online. The game is a great way to start your PS3 ownership of, 
 and if the campaign won't the online will certainly keep you busy for some time indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cheefyman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is probably the most exciting game that I have played for PS3. Resistance 
 is to PS3 as Gears of War is to XBOX 360. This game gets your adrenaline going and it keeps you 
 on your heels. This isnt a boring first person shooter and if you get this game then you are definitely 
 getting your moneys worth.
  
  Cooperative mode and campaign modes are great and the 40 man online play is awesome. Though the 
 maps may not be as graphically enhanced like a Gears of War, they are pretty good and the graphics 
 are awesome for a game that came out in 2006.
  
  All PS3 owners should get this game because it keeps you on the edge of your seat and doesnt let 
 you down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rage11
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  While I will say that the story of Resistance isn't the most exciting as Nathan Hale isn't as likeable 
 or carismatic as other similar video game characters, the game itself is quite amazing. This was 
 the first ever First-Person Shooter I have ever got myself into, and luckily it was very easy and 
 quick to adjust, get used to, and enjoy.
  
  This is the perfect game to play with friends with multi-player mode, with pretty good maps.
 
  
  The weapons are done perfectly in this game. The ones designed for the Chimera are very creative 
 and innovative. As is the difference in human abilities and Chimera abilities.
  
  One downfall in this game however, is the somewhat dull atomosphere, but it's hardly a problem 
 at all.
  
  The best feature on this game is no doubt the online play. Playing online is very addicting, and 
 just flat out fun. With great modes like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Conversion, Capture the Flag, 
 Breach and a few more along with the awesome maps, it's very hard to get yourself bored playing 
 online. We can only hope that Resistance leads the way for many more great games to play online 
 on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DragoXM
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 20, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a fist person shooter that has a great impact on the PLAYSTATION 3. Here are the 
 GOOD and the BAD points.
  
  THE GOOD
  -Graphics are very impressive
  -Sound is very powerful
  -Lots to achieve
  -Online is very addictive with holding up to 40 
 players
  -Lots of Guns to use
  -Game has replay value 
  -Replayable campaign pits you against an aggressive, fairly intelligent foe
  -Monsters are deadly 
 and frightening
  -4 player battles and story mode co-op are fun to play with mates
  -Custom characters and Online games
  
  THE BAD
  -The campaign's story and characters aren't 
 well developed 
  -Some glitches
  
  Graphics - 9
  Sound - 9
  Gameplay - 9
  Value - 10
  Tilt - 9
  
  HIGHLY RECOMEND THIS GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zishan200
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 19, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  one of greatest fps shooters i ever played . Resistance fall of man is great. The storyline is perfect 
 and unique and very well developped. story well put better than halo i would say Playing online 
 in Resistance is Great, one of the best onlines i had ever played on any console very great updateable 
 maps cool ranking and clans and stuff best shooter of next gen cnsole currently i would say. , 
 Resistance has outstanding visuals, and has NO frame rate issues, smokes look great, i would recommend 
 this game to any gamer out there if you have trouble.. PLAY 2 PLAYER VERY FUN! thats how my friend 
 and i beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iamdeaframbo
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  I have been playing on this game since Feberary and I really love it. If yall want to find me then 
 find me in Rain or 42o or my sn is Deaf_WarEagle23. We have 4 deaf people in our clan and we are 
 getting better and we are really in 42o for the life. Well, yall watch out on Next Level and they 
 are BEST! We are planning to beat best clans one day and we have been working so hard for it. Also, 
 I will never finish with resistance and it seems never be retired like Halo game. I can't wait 
 for resistance part 2 in Fall 2009. I am so excited about it. Have a good one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  .Resistance fall of man is great. The storyline is perfect and unique and very well developped, 
 and it feels like if you were playing Nathan Hale's (prtoagonist) role, it really takes you in.
 
  Gameplay in resistance is great, lots of weapons, unique weapons and really fun to fire them, 
 and all of them with two fire modes, this also includes grenades wich are also unique and fun.
 
  .Graphically speaking , Resistance has outstanding visuals, and has NO frame rate issues, smokes 
 look great, as well as chimera, you feel afraid of chimera. Cut scenes in the game makes you to 
 get in the game more and more.
  .Sound si good, specially the chimera sound , it makes you fell afraid.
  .Chimeras AI is great 
 , and they make whatever it takes to be safe and take you in.
  .Playing online in Resistance is Great, one of the best onlines i had ever played, you can be a 
 Chimera, or a soldier, with lots of customizations available, and they increase, if your millitary 
 range increases. Cinnection is easy an VERY fast. There are many games available.
  .In conclusion, resistance is a great single player and multiplayer that offers lot of action and 
 great stor. If you like shooters BUY IT, so far the best shooter on the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: squidney2k1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was touted as a killer app for the PS3's launch: A Halo killer, a Gears 
 of War killer etc.
  
  Well it's good, but it's not quite that good. While the gameplay is great, it has a few minor flaws 
 that keep it from getting a perfect score.
  
  The artificial intelligence is absolutely amazing. It is by far the best AI I've played with in 
 a console game to date, bar none. The feel of it channels initial reactions to playing Half-life 
 for the first time: Holy crap, did it just do that? No way, that Chimera flanked me??? (The Chimera 
 are the game's enemies) .
  
  A prime example: I was told to go take out the Chimera in a building. I move in, fighting my way 
 through. After dying a few times, I knew there were going to be Chimera waiting inside a door, 
 so I thought I'd wear them down with some hop 'n' pop firing. I was wrong. Once the Chimera knew 
 where I was, they circled around outside the building and came up and hit me from behind. I know 
 this, because after I died and reloaded, I used the exact same route to flank them: only to find 
 they had met me halfway while one came OUT the original door and hit me from behind.
  
  Yes, they're THAT good.
  
  And you'll be fighting a lot of them at a time. Channeling the Serious 
 Sam series, you'll be fighting in some instances ten and fifteen or more Chimera at a time, sometimes 
 more.
  
  Of course you're not fighting alone. Other soldiers are there with you. For the most part, they 
 don't share the skill that the enemy AI has, but to be honest, I never paid attention to it, nor 
 gave them a chance to find out how good their AI is. You won't miss it though: you'll be doing 
 most of the fighting during the game.
  
  And the weapon design is incredible: You'll have guns with rifle grenade launchers, guns that fire 
 homing tags that can target enemies for steady automatic fire, guns that can make your own energy 
 shield, guns that can be dual wielded.... I've been told the designers are the team that did Rachet 
 and Clank. I never played that game, but the weapon design definitely draws upon that.
  
  The level design is well done: It never quite feels like a maze, but it does feel sufficiently like 
 an occupied city.
  
  Only downside I've noticed so far: The graphics just aren't up to par. PS3 was touted as a graphical 
 powerhouse. Well Resistance is far from ugly, but if you're not playing on a HDTV on an HDMI cable, 
 you're not going to like how it looks. Interestingly enough, I had played Resistance BEFORE I played 
 Gears of War, and had compared Resistance's graphics to being slightly below those of some of the 
 prettier 360 games before Gears of War. However, there is a caveat to this: the graphics get MUCH 
 better as the game progresses. I don't really know why that is.
  
  Soundtrack is average. Not particularly bad, not awe inspiring. Sound effects are likewise, though 
 better than average.
  
  On a whole, I'd recommend this game as a definite buy, but if you have other games you'd rather 
 play first, by all means go to it. Just don't lose R: FOM in the shuffle... while it's not a killer 
 app , it's a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aspro73
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is not a remarkable game, except when it is. When I first played through 
 the first few minutes of Resistance I was impressed more with the capabilities of the PlayStation 
 3 than the game itself. As I walked through the game world there was smoke billowing in the distance, 
 explosions of fire, 5-7 enemies rushing toward me and not a sign of slow-down. It gave me a sign 
 of what the PS3 will be capable of if developers were to start making games specifically for te 
 PS3.
  
  Resistance is a paint-by-numbers FPS incorporating the best parts of many games that have preceded 
 it, just as Area 51 did in the last generation. given the lack of originality in the FPS genre 
 this is hardly surprising and I did not hold it against the game. It is capable, bug-free and for 
 the most part engaging.
  
  The only short fall of the game is the jeep-vehicle missions which appear to have been tacked-on, 
 or at least not as carefully reviewed for quality as the rest of the game. Though it does not affect 
 the gameplay the cut scenes are also deficient, they consist mostly of sepia-toned concept art 
 narrated-over. Not exactly engaging.
  
  if you have a PS3 and enjoy FPS games at the early stage of the console's life playing Resistance 
 is more of a requirement than a choice, but if you are ready this 2-3 years after the PS3 launch 
 there are no doubt better FPS games available for you to play. At least I hope so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolokowoh
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  First of all there is nothing bad too say about this game at all. It is not only the best first 
 person shooter ever, it is the best game ever. People have been waiting for a Halo killer. Well, 
 here it is. The best game ever has landed in PS3s everywhere and converted 360 owners into PS3 
 owners in seconds. Graphics are top notch. Sound is perfect. Weapons are the most innovative guns 
 ever in a first shooter. Now for the story. The story revolves around the Chimera and their creation 
 in alternate reality where WW2 never happened and an outbreak of Chimera took Europe by storm. 
 You are Nathan Hale, an American soldier, and you are fighting the Chimeran infection in England. 
 Long story short you are infected and must use your abilities to kill the host of Chimeran creatures 
 you come across. Enough about the story you say. The online on Resistance is not only perfect but 
 free. You have the classics like Deathmath and CTF, but you alway have Conversion and a few other 
 fun multi player modes. Resistance not only pwns Halo but it is better than any other game side 
 by side. IF YOU OWN THIS GAME BUY IT  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiNoRu808
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  Resistance is such a great game to enjoy especially for first time shooters. I enjoy shooters but 
 even if your not a hardcore first-person gamer like myself its still fun to play, watch and have 
 fun with. Beautiful graphics to go along with a solid performance gameplay wise. Highly recommend 
 this game for everyone to try. Maybe not the greatest shooter of all time but multiplayer is fun 
 also. The 40 player online something to checkout also. Intense play that will either make you or 
 break you. This game really surprised me about how good it is. Never would have thought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demonic_Dante-
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  At first it seems like any normal FPS your first weapons is the standard machine gun but as the 
 game goes on the weapons become more then additions to the gameplay but they can also alter the 
 gameplay as well the aguer for example can not only fire high powered shots but also can go through 
 walls and the alt fire can create a shield for you (Nearly every weapon has an alt fire) I have 
 never played and FPS with such addicting gameplay that no-one should pass up unless you despise 
 all FPS' on the market
  
  -The online is a hit and miss since you can't choose what to play your either human (who's class 
 can sprint, crouch and has much better radar ) or the Chimara (Who can see thru walls when activated 
 but will overheat and maybe stronger but are much bigger targets in the open)
  
  This remains in the top 5 of my Best FPS' of all time and will most likely stay that way 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JtAgentX
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 14, 2007 3:23 pm PT
Review:  First off, Action in this game is flawless. It's fast paced and you are constantly having your 
 hands at the controller and never putting this bad boy down. Another thing is that even though 
 the game is lower rated than the Gears of War Title on the 360, this game rarely has no glitches. 
 Yes, I mean it. No annoying little kids that super jump and chainsaw you with pistols. It's not 
 the best PS3 title. But it is decent. You should go pick this game up when you have the chance. 
 And for all you Russia War fans, that's where the game takes place. Along with the twist of aliens 
 taking over the world. I'm not ruining the rest!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Goibythebrewer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 13, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Intro Insomniac Games was founded in 1994, independently developing games for the Playstation while 
 retaining a high status as one of the best companies to work for in America for their relaxed environment, 
 flexible hours, yoga, Fragfest Fridays, movie nights, and indoor 7/11. This could be one of the 
 reasons it has had such success producing smash hit such as the Spyro the Dragon Series and  
 Ratchet and Clank, both of which are very clear cut plat former games which have, in a lot of 
 ways, set the bar for games of the same genre. Now at the beginning of 2007, with the release of 
 the violent and hardcore slugfest that is Resistance: Fall of Man, could we be seeing a new turn 
 for the once squeaky clean image of Insomniac? Resistance: Fall of Man is the first FPS game released 
 on the Playstation 3, it also happens to be the first look at Insomniac Games are going to fair 
 up in the Next-Gen universe of High Definition graphics and revolutionary new Physics Engines. 
 The player is forced to do battle with alien invasion forces which have over run Europe and are 
 now are Britain door-step. The game is set to be a real hit among FPS gamers but will it be remembered 
 as a definitive point in gaming history? Story Set in 1951, Resistance: FoM follows an alternate 
 history in which world war two never came to be and an era of peace follows The Great War. All 
 good and dandy until reports of a virus known as Chimera begin originating in Russia quickly 
 become apparent as Europe quickly falls and within a few year England is under siege and not holding 
 up to well to put it frankly. Enter Sgt. Nathan Hale, an American foot soldier thrown into the 
 war with Americas entry not knowing what effect he would have on the outcome, Obviously. The story 
 is actually set as a flashback told by British Intelligence agent Cpt. Rachel Parker and is actually 
 very nicely laid out so that the player really starts to see the story unfold from an on lookers 
 perspective in order for the obvious story to be laid out in front of the players eyes and give 
 a real sense of purpose in each mission. This being said though it does lead for a very linear 
 story line which follows very strict order the player is forced to face, I personally do think 
 this is also very well laid out so that you, as a gamer, dont spend any time having to deal with 
 missed items and hidden keys given you a good 10 hours of solid Gameplay that leaves you feeling 
 satisfied upon completion. Gameplay/Controls The controls on the game are very simple and only 
 take about 10-15 minutes before your blowing the heads of aliens with relative ease. Although the 
 controls are very standard FPS controls, the full arsenal of weapons brings a whole new light to 
 the tactics you use within the game mostly down to which type of enemy your up against which you 
 can usually guess by what ammo is lying on the ground before you get into the next area. The standard 
 rifle in the game is a very very efficient tool, 50 rounds per magazine semi or fully automatic 
 with a simple looking down the end of the barrel system of aiming which also comes with the nice 
 little surprise of a grenade launcher attached seemed to be my weapon of choice most of the way 
 throughout the game, rarely running out of ammo (Either Im a marksman or theres ammo everywhere) 
 but there are a lot of goodies in store for you as you proceed to the games conclusion Which actually 
 leads me nicely to the my next point, There are a really nice variety of enemies (and tactics that 
 go with the killing of) to really keep you on your toes, From your standard grunt who doesnt take 
 kindly to well placed shots to the head with your standard rifle, to dog like beast that seems 
 to get on with the shotgun like a slug to salt. But overall the creature we loved the most was 
 the simple worker/zombie thing that moves at walking pace with no ranged attack what so ever, pretty 
 much venerable to anything provided us with lots of giggles shooting there legs out or cracking 
 them upside the head with the butt of your rifle. If, on the other hand, you get grabbed by one 
 of the slippery devils who snuck up behind you, a quick shake of the motion sensitive controllers 
 is all it takes to send em to the ground in a bloody mess, a really nice use of the controllers 
 features although I found these encounters few and far between. At a few stages in the game you 
 are given the opportunity to driven in a small selection of vehicles, human and alien which are 
 very nicely spaced into the game so as your not doing them every other level but after running 
 a few miles against wave after wave of chimera you become appreciative of the change in pace. The 
 game is in no way a simple easy shoot-em up, at times it can be very difficult in fact, and these 
 sections will really break it up nicely Graphics Although the graphics wont leave your jaw hanging 
 from your skull, they are very detailed and the textures really keep a very war torn feel throughout 
 the whole game. Enough to keep the whole atmosphere engrossing and playable from every point of 
 view. The scenes change very quickly aswell, one minute your holding a square among your comrades 
 the next you are one your own storming Chimerian tunnels searching for that crippling blow that 
 you ever so deservedly need. Everything retains a very 1940-50s feel with everything from your 
 gun to the human vehicles with hints of what they are actually based on in our reality, all of 
 which have obviously been very well thought out and modeled beautifully Along side that the sounds 
 of each weapon are really satisfying aswell, the meaty thud of the Standard issue rifle firing 
 off round after round, the high pitched whine of chimerian Bullseye screaming its incredibly 
 slow shoots off in quick succession, leaves you with a distinct knowledge of whos shooting at 
 you and from where. My recommendation though, 5.1 surround sound, crank the volume up and get ready 
 to hit the deck. Although the musical score isnt exactly memorable, its orchestral symphonies 
 are well placed at key moments to give it that real blood bathy feel. Multiplayer Multiplayer aspects 
 of the game give you the standard online shoot-em ups modes online (Death-match / Team Death-Match 
 / CTF etc etc) playing with anywhere from 8 players to 40 players in an all out war scenarios set 
 in scenes based on events in the game, you can play as both Human and Chimera but both differ slightly 
 from the single player mode. You are also given a two player split screen co-operative version 
 of the single player campaign, basically its exactly the same as the single player mode just with 
 welltwo players. This does make the game easier in the sense that if one of you die the other 
 can revive you allowing the mad charges into the enemies to be that much more enjoyable Bad Points 
 The few things I will say about this game though, in the two player campaign the second player 
 with play as just a token character who in no point makes any appearance in the game other than 
 when you and your friend are playing, even to the extent that in the cut scenes the second player 
 completely disappears. Other than that most of the typical game is pretty much the same, not to 
 say that the locations wont keep you really interested but the basic concept is pretty much the 
 same throughout and a lot of aspects can be predicted Overall Overall I would really highly recommend 
 this game to any fun-loving FPS fan who has just got hold of a PS3 (to be honest though, with this 
 being the only FPS really out at the moment for the PS3 chances are they already got there hands 
 on it) I wouldnt call it a reason in itself to fork out for the Sonys latest console but it has 
 set the bar for everything else yet to come to base it on. All together I would say 8.5 out of 
 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MallratsJaySB
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember back when Killzone was announced for PS2? Do you remember how it was supposed to 
 be the Halo killer for Sony's system? Of course you do. However, when it was released, it barely 
 reached the mediocrity level. Sony still didn't have a first person shooter that could compete 
 with Halo. Now it does. As far as I'm concerned, Resistance: Fall of Man is the game that Killzone 
 was hyped to be. It can stand head to head with Halo as a great first person shooter in all aspects.
 
  
  Resistance takes place in an alternate universe where World War II never happened. Instead, an 
 alien race dubbed the Chimera invaded Earth and started to dispose of every human on the planet. 
 You play as Nathan Hale, a member of the United States Army that plans on stopping the Chimera 
 before they can take over North America. It seems like an impossible mission, but there's a catch. 
 You are infected by the Chimeran virus. So with extra abilities, such as health regeneration, you 
 set out to kill some aliens. The premise of this game is great. I've had enough of WWII games, 
 but this is a new fresh take on the time period that is long overdue. However, just like the other 
 WWII games, there isn't really much of a narrative. It's basically just briefings on what you need 
 to do. Just instead of taking out a German bunker, you'll be blowing up Chimeran hideouts. Plus, 
 there's a serious lack of cutscenes. It's mainly still pictures with a voice over talking about 
 what she knew about Hale. On top of that, the ending isn't everything it could be. I don't want 
 to ruin anything, but suffice it to say, there are more questions than answers. This game has such 
 an awesome premise for a great story, but they decided to do the bare minimum rather than create 
 an engaging and compelling story.
  
  I am truly blown away by the gameplay. I've played tons and tons of first person shooters over 
 the years, but this is one of the most violently entertaining I've played in a long time. On the 
 surface, it doesn't look that impressive. At the beginning of the game, you're running through 
 the same war torn environments you've seen countless times in other games and the guns aren't that 
 unique. However, as you play, you start to get some truly different guns from the Chimera including 
 one where you can tag your enemy, shoot in any direction, and almost guarantee a direct hit as 
 well as one that shoots through walls. These guns may make the game sound cheap and way too easy, 
 but on the contrary, remember that these guns are the Chimerans. So they have the same tricks up 
 their sleeves to unleash on you. Also, the environments get a lot better and start to deviate from 
 the normal WWII setting into some crazy alien settings.
  
  Of course, the cool guns and unique alien environments wouldn't be much without the correct pacing 
 and some awesome action. On this front, Resistance delivers in spades. The pacing in the game has 
 a great mix of fast paced shooting and slower tension filled walks. The game never particularly 
 tries to be scary per se, but the few times that you see a Chimeran out of the corner of your eye 
 only to look and see nothing there is awesome. When it isn't trying to build suspense with these 
 slower moments, the game constantly throws hordes and hordes of enemies in your direction to mow 
 you down. It gets rather intense in some sections of the game and it's never a cake walk. The AI 
 is usually very smart, taking cover when needed, shooting some covering fire, and flanking you. 
 However, they're not overly smart like in some games where they constantly know where you are no 
 matter what. For instance, let's say you're shooting from behind cover and a Chimeran is shooting 
 back at you across the field from behind cover. If you can slip out and away without him noticing, 
 he'll still shoot in that general direction while you can sneak around and put a bullet in the 
 back of his head. They're incredibly smart, but have weaknesses, just like real enemies would. 
 It's great.
  
  There are endless ways to kill these aliens. Outside of the usual guns, there are plenty of strategic 
 ways to take out a cluttered batch of enemies. You can throw grenades, mow them over with the various 
 vehicles you can drive, and even use their own technology and attacks against them. For example, 
 there is a flying enemy that picks up objects around the environment and throws them at you. One 
 time, he picked up a flammable barrel, I shot it, it exploded, and it instantly caught him on fire. 
 There are also some spheres that if shot will explode after a very brief delay. In one situation, 
 an enemy on a ledge was firing down at me. Underneath him was a vertical rack of three of those 
 spheres. I shot the middle one and it exploded which sent the top one flying up which in turn took 
 out the ledge under him sending him falling to his death. It's these types of moments that make 
 the game stand out and make it as entertaining as it is.
  
  Like I mentioned briefly before, you'll take control of various vehicles throughout your time playing. 
 Although it was nice to switch up the action a bit, they all seemed like more of an afterthought 
 than anything else. I literally finished one of those levels in about a minute which makes me think 
 that they wanted to inflate the game a little and threw in a badly planned out vehicle level. You'll 
 take control of a tank, which handles very poorly, the obvious Army vehicle with a turret gun, 
 and one of the Chimeran vehicles, which looks like a mechanical spider. It's not that these missions 
 can't be fun, but with the awesome gun play in the game, it's hard to justify the need for these 
 levels.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Playing this game really shows you how much better the visuals have 
 gotten since the last generation of consoles. I'm not much of a technical person, so I can't tell 
 you the specifics, but it evoked a sense of awe in me on more than one occasion. The characters 
 and enemies looked truly great and the surrounding chaos unfolding in the environment was a sight 
 to behold. The fact that there wasn't an iota of lag or noticeable clipping is just icing on the 
 cake.
  
  The audio is also rather impressive. The sound effects were terrific. The guns certainly can't 
 match the empirical sound of games like Medal of Honor or Call of Duty, but they succeeded when 
 they needed to. I also thought the voice acting was very good. Sure, there are very little cutscenes 
 and only one character has a substantial amount of dialogue, but the lines were still delivered 
 with talent. For one reason or another, I don't remember much of the musical score. It must not 
 have struck me in any way. It did pick up appropriately during intense firefights, but outside 
 of that, it didn't do much.
  
  Like I said before, I think this is the killer app to compete against Halo that Sony was hoping 
 Killzone would be. I enjoyed my time with the Halo games, but I never thought they were nearly 
 as good as people said they were, especially when it came to the single player experience. Resistance: 
 Fall of Man's single player is easily the most entertaining I've played since Painkiller. It's 
 well rounded, unique, balanced, visceral, violent, and well paced. Is it the best first person 
 shooter ever? No, certainly not. However, it's one of the most engaging to come around in a long 
 time. If you're looking for another WWII game, look elsewhere. But if you're looking for a different 
 take on that time period with some seriously intense action, you need look no further than Resistance: 
 Fall of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zell_Forever
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2007 9:22 am PT
Review:  When I got Resistance with the PS3 bonus pack a month ago, I was quite excited. I thought that 
 blasting aliens on the PS3 would be a somewhat different experience than blasting aliens on a PS2 
 or PC...
  
  When I started playing, I felt really disappointed.
  It seemed like Resistance would be nothing more than a clone of Half-Life 2, with endless shooting 
 for no real point.
  The story in the beginning was also atrocious, with 3 mega mistakes within the first 3 missions, 
 one of them being the woman saying something among the lines of the infected people were taken 
 to the Chimeran facility to be infected . WHAT?
  
  I was really dreading playing this game any more, with the terrible story and bland shooting action.
 
  Usually in a game, the beginning is pure awesomeness, but becomes repetitive and boring. It's 
 quite rare these days to keep its awesomeness throughout, but even rarer for a game to become better 
 as it progresses.
  How is this possible you ask? Well read on. I was shocked too.
  
  After a few missions in the game, you start getting new weapons and explosives that are REALLY 
 fun to play with. You will find yourself using the sapper mines to protect yourself against charging 
 mechanical monsters even, by building a wall of it, and then throwing air fuel grenades from afar 
 to take the baddies out.
  Apart from new weapons, you keep on encountering new forms of Chimera, which although become tougher 
 and meaner, are still reasonable in strength compared to the types of weapons you have.
  
  Back to the HL2-cloning issue, about half way into the game i felt like the similarities in the 
 two games really is an advantage for Resistance.
  Sure it might be a copy, but isn't every fps essentially a copy of fps' before it?
  And if something 
 works really well, as HL2 did, why not reuse it?
  You might think that it'll seem like HL2 Episode 1.5, and although the core elements are, you really 
 feel the atmosphere of post WWII England, occupied by nasty aliens.
  
  The story really comes together later in the game and you start feeling intrigued to find out more, 
 and who the hell are those other guys that you only here about and see their corpses? About half 
 way in the game, I thought ahh this must be the final mission because of the way they structured 
 it.
  But it wasn't, then 3 missions later I thought this is it for sure! . nope.
  Later on i thought ahh this is probably it, but i really would be happy if there were more missions 
 . Well, needless to say it continued a while, and I got to experience F. E. A. R. type elements that 
 were well incorporated into this game.
  
  Learning to use the weapons efficiently meant the difference between being the true master soldier 
 that Nathan Hale is, or being killed a few times until you know where to throw those nades at the 
 right moments to get past...
  Also, the different vehicles you could commandeer were truly fun!
  The tank in the first vehicle 
 mission sucked, press x to move, and shoot... But as I said, with the other elements of this game, 
 come to expect more later on!
  The jeep was absolute fun to drive, even though it wasn't Motorstorm, and placing the jeep in the 
 right places as you go on foot also is something you must do wisely, but helps a ton if done right.
 
  And the chimeran vehicles? SAY NO MORE! *heart*
  
  The graphics were truly shiny... as much as they could possibly be for an SDTV. And unlike Motorstorm, 
 the smallest writing was very legible. The framerate never game me problems, and the atmosphere 
 came to life with the excellent graphics, particle effect, and of course, sound.
  
  The multiplayer was also great fun, but expect a Halo-type environment out there. Angry kids with 
 mics screaming, and those messaging you with insults after a game because you killed them and they 
 are leet and you are noob.
  I haven't played alot of multiplayer online, but the time I spent was really fun. The different 
 modes are cool, and using the traits of the Chimera or Human to the max makes the experience so 
 much better.
  Such a great multiplayer only complements the extremely good single player making it a lethal combination.
 
  
  I am looking forward to Resistance 2, even if it's more of the same, because the ending was just 
 :O and the experience was amazing.
  Great job to Insomniac! You made yet another classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehcouches
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  A great Launch title! The Lag-free intense Multiplayer in this game is Top notch. Its fun but Can 
 get repetitive at times. Customization is Limited but still alright. The visual is a little dull 
 and the is not many Indoor online maps. Story Mode however kicks ass. The story is cool in its 
 own way but character development lacks. The enemy gets repetive as well and pretty much the whole 
 game is just a run and shoot tactic. Co-op mode is great as well! The facials in the game is fantastic 
 and the whole Picking from Chimera or Human on multiplayer is fun. Overall a a great but not super 
 game. Gets a little boring as well. Replay value is decent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lancerex6
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 12, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a FPS that cannot be passed on. This game is definitely a must buy for 
 all PS3 owners out there. Why?
  
  Firstly, as a launch game, this game has surpassed its graphical expectations. The Presentation 
 is good, but may seem to lack some color, as the game itself is sort of brownish. Frame rate is 
 very steady, but when theres too much going on and too many enemies on screen, there is definitely 
 a noticible slow down in frame/s.
  
  The story is very well delivered, it is very detailed and believable. When you are playing through 
 the single player, the story telling really grabs you in and set you down in the 1950's.
  
  The controls, what can I say, ITS PERFECT!
  
  Multiplayer, a major feature in the game. Online 
 is superb, but the offline multiplayer isn't as good, because there is no Bots!
  
  Overall... this game is a must get as said above. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is an amazing game, and the fact that it was a launch game for the PS3 makes 
 it all the more amazing. Without this game, it's fair to say that the PS3 would not have had a 
 killer exclusive at launch... all the way through Spring. The story line is great, although not 
 super original. Nathan Hale (the main character) could use more dialogue, but the cutscenes are 
 realistic and the narration is great. The weapons in the game are super original, but what else 
 would you expect from Insomniac? The action in this game makes for some of the best gameplay I've 
 ever experinced. I'm not even a huge fan of FPS, but this game is a great exception. One of the 
 best benefits of owning this game is the online action. Online multiplayer makes for hours upon 
 hours of fun. If you are skeptical to buy this game (which, if you own a PS3, you probably arent) 
 then download the demo from the PSN. I played through the demo 4 times in one day just because 
 I wasnt able to go buy the game yet. Some people are still anticipating the first killer app for 
 the PS3, and I have to assume these people have completely forgotten R: FOM. This game is incredible, 
 and alone is a reason to buy a PS3... if this is a launch title, I cant wait to play the sequel 
 after the PS3 is seasoned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grantiscool10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Okay first off, I dont own this game. I dont even own a ps3. But after pulling an all-nighter at 
 my cousin's house, I think Im worthy of writing a review of it right? So it's a kick ass game, 
 with a good, long single player. The graphics are amazing and it really pulls you in, especially 
 when you play it on a 60-or-so inch HDTV with surround sound. There are a S**TLOAD of different 
 weapons, and the game pauses when you are picking so you have a lot of time to pick, and theres 
 alternate fire, for all your beast weapons it packs an extra punch. I havent played the multiplayer, 
 but my uncle says its insane. The only problem i have is its kind of hard, and the story is kind 
 of hard to follow. Other than that, its near-perfect and a must-own. So go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NFD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  After paying &pound;40 ($80) for this game i played on the sinle player campaign and was rather 
 disapointed. The control scheme was good and it had ok graphics but it was not much better than 
 any FPS i had been on on the PS2.
  
  However the Multiplayer is superb, the online supports up to 40 players and you can customise the 
 game in many ways including weapons, maps, game mode etc etc. When you get playing you really feel 
 like your part of a war, hurling grenades into the enemy base, jumping from cover and showering 
 bullets onto an enemy with the shotgun and just generally fighting for your team. There is also 
 an option to do split screen MP which is also a lot of fun.
  
  My advice is don't buy this if you don't have your internet hooked up or to your PS3 because the 
 singleplayer is really not that good, but if you do have internet it is a good game to just join 
 a game and play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hassam7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  I can't belive my eyes this game is awsome and it has everything to be a great FPS and the story 
 is also amazing! The graphics are topnotch and are very attractive but things like the splitscreen 
 stop the game from being the numbuh 1 FPS!
  
  Besides that its an amazing FPS and you will enjoy the game right to the end. I still think that 
 Halo is the best FPS currently but eventually someone will take Microsoft down!
  
  Fall of man is def. a game worth every penny and thats a fact and if you like kicking alien butt 
 you'll love this game!
  
  
  
  
  Hassam7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1LowSDime
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  As soon as I got my PS3, I knew I had to get Resistance: Fall of Man. Needless to say, I was not 
 disappointed in my purchase. For anyone who is a fan of FPS games or someone wanting to delve into 
 them, this is a great game to do so.
  
  Gameplay
  A story and how the game is played can make or break a videogame. Resistance does a very good job 
 of becoming an all around, balanced game. The controls are easy to get used to after about 30 minutes 
 of play and presentation of the story is easy to follow and very engaging. It would have been nice 
 if the background of the story went a little bit deeper into the deal with the Chimera but it's 
 not to where you'll be discouraged by it. The story is still very good and entertaining and the 
 bits and pieces of intel you pick up help with the progression as well as the FMVs in between levels. 
 Speaking of levels, there are quite a number of them to play through, so you won't have to worry 
 about running out of shoot'em up fun. Weapons are basically the most essential part of any FPS 
 and you will come across at lot of weapons to choose from in this game. The added bonus to this 
 is that not only do you get to keep the weapons when you beat the game and start over, but you 
 also unlock some more to play with, although you will have to progress through the game for a little 
 bit to get them again . Add in three different types of grenades (Frag, Air-Fuel &amp; Hedgehog) 
 and you've got yourself a recipe for fun and destruction.
  
  Graphics
  Being on the PS3, you know that the visuals are going to be top notch and Resistance doesn't disappoint. 
 Each level is nicely detailed and definitely gives the feel of a war-torn environment. Plus, all 
 the levels are almost all interactive throughout: windows will pock-mark, crack, and then shatter 
 everytime they're shot, cars will get torn up and then explode when under heavy fire, and there 
 are some barrels that will explode when you shoot at them, which grants a nice detailed fiery explosion 
 upon doing so. Dust kicks up during all the right times and clouds of smoke from burning wreckage 
 definintely adds a nice touch. Other levels are in a wintery setting and even then the graphics 
 are superb and look very realistic. The weapons in the game are also decent to look at and not 
 one looks bland or like a drawn up box. The animation and attention to detail during reloading 
 is nice, smooth, and realistic. You'll suffer no slow down in gameplay during even the heaviest 
 of firefights. Firefights alone, especially later on in the game, are a treat for the eyes, as 
 you'll see Chimeran laser pulses flying through the air in red or blue trails and each bullet from 
 the Allied side gives off the likeness of traces, which adds a really cool touch to the game play. 
 As said before, this is the PS3, so the next-gen hardware really puts on an extremely good show 
 all around.
  
  Sound
  The sound in the game is nicely done and nothing comes across as generic. Each gunshot sounds different 
 and matches well with the weapon currently being shot, same goes for the different grenades when 
 they explode. If you have a home theater system, you'll get the most out of this game. The background 
 music adds a nice touch to climatic events and is never obtrusive. The voices of the Allied are 
 very convincing and the growls and inaudible grunts and groans of the Chimeran race is really well 
 done.
  
  Value
  Value is generally regarded as replay value and this game will net you some. Under the Extras section 
 is a list of Skill Points that can be gained by doing certain tasks, altho finding out what these 
 requirements are will probably require you to check out GameFAQs' website. Nevertheless, the small 
 want to go through the game again just to try out the new weapons and try to get the Skill Points 
 is another reason to go through the game again, as it is just plain fun.
  
  Summary
  Resistance: Fall of Man, being one of the first FPS games to hit the PS3, much less one of the 
 first games as well, is a game that will provide hours of enjoyment for the FPS gamer and probably 
 draw in a few that are new to the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: troy1155
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 12:48 am PT
Review:  The game story is a very well made and though story. The game mode EX easy-Hard is just what it 
 says and is a good example of the game itself. The online game is very addictive and it is almost 
 or better than the story mode for the game. The graphics of the game are pretty good although there 
 are some areas where it gets a little bit fuzzy but i would think that sooner or later they would 
 make a patch to down load for the game to fix those but as of now they have not. The added MAP 
 PACK 1 you can buy for the game for online play is not worth the money to buy it , there's not 
 enough people that own it and it is hard to play a game with those maps without other players. 
 overall the game is an excellent pick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellythapimp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 8, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  i went to blockbuster today and rented this game just to try it out, i didnt think it would be 
 so much fun, i usually dont like war types of games because they're just boring to me, but this 
 one is tha **** I cant stop playing it .. lol.. you gotta get this if you have a ps3. ps3 ps3 ps3
 
  ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 
 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 ps3 
 ps3 ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  When your first got your PS3 what was the first game you played?
  Mine was Resistance Fall of Man one of PS3 most poplurar game at the moment from the makers that 
 brought Spyro and Ratchet and Clank from the company Insomniac, they have made a great online and 
 first person shooter.
  Main story takes place after World War 2 when Russians cloused their boarders, everyone feared 
 they were developing a weapon of unpralleled power. Two months later the Chimera have taken over 
 Europe the last remains is in Britain where they must fight for there freedom and country. The 
 gameplay is almost the same as any other FPS game you'll get the hang of strieght away. Graphics 
 are brillient 1940's with British enviroments like York, London or Nottingham. Sound and voices 
 are propper British Cor Blimley . But the best thing about this game is Multiplayer Online where 
 you play other gamers around the World and ranking your soilder. There is also Deathmatch, capture 
 the flag, and many more that you know in other FPS games. Also you can buy the Multiplayer maps 
 on the PS shop which is at a cheap price. If you don't have this game yet go out and buy it. After 
 you finish story mode you'll be wondering is there gonna be a sequel? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgert
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  I just got my PS3 a week ago and decided to get R: FOM as a first game. Using the HDMI cable at 
 720P the game looks sharp (especially the glass shattering) but minor jaggies are there and the 
 textures don't seem to be so snazzy up close. My favorite part of RFOM was the excellent weapons. 
 After getting the carbine which you start with (which is effective throughout the game, at least 
 on medium) you quickly come across exotic weaponry such as the bullseye. Which you can use to shoot 
 a tag which acts as a homing point for the next number of regular shots. Throughout the game you'll 
 get a sniper, a gun that shoots through walls, a shotgun and other cool stuff. All of the weapons 
 feature a secondary fire which is always cool. The story is kinda weird and I didn't really get 
 into it but at least its there. I haven't got into the multiplayer that much yet but so fars its 
 been a lot of fun with up to 40 players duking it out across English locales. All in all RFOM was 
 a solid game that delivered on its weapons. 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  What an awesome game from Insomniac, previously pretty much only making ratchet and clank games, 
 to this!! quite a jump. I like R&amp; C, but this is really, really very good. The story is solid 
 as a rock, with great cut-scenes and an involving storyline to go with it, as well as the great 
 local play multiplayer, supporting up to 4 players, and the frankly mind-blowing online experience.
 
  I must admit to not having played a shooter online before this, but it rocks, and now i am hooked 
 =]
  BUY THIS GAME!!! In the U. K. it can now be bought for &pound;30 which has to be an awesome bargain. 
 Great job insomniac, great job.
  
  k_g 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvorgang
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 6:21 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was the perfect launch title for PS3. I believe it lived up to the hype 
 that was around it. First off, this game is careful in terms of design. The developers didn't take 
 too many risks with this game. That doesn't mean it made a bland game. By sticking to a solid formula 
 for FPSs, they created a solid game. The graphics were very good. The best looking parts of the 
 game would have to be the character details and the Chimera vehicles (ex, the ships that carried 
 the little bugs and all) , but most of the environments looked decent. A personal favorite of mine 
 was the snow effects towards the end of the game.
  
  What makes this game really stand out though are it's weapons. Every weapon has a secondary feature. 
 Most people will probably pick the Bullseye as the favorite weapon because its secondary feature 
 is a bullet lock on no matter where u shoot from. My personal favorite is the Auger. Not only does 
 it shoot through walls, but its secondary feature is to create a shield in front of you that only 
 an Auger can penetrate. The games multiplayer is a blast too. This game shows that the PSN CAN 
 rival Xbox Live. And with 40 player matches, you will be sure to have a blast. If you're expecting 
 a halo 2 experience with multiplayer, don't. Its a great thing to play once you're done with single 
 player. The game is fairly long (at least it seems that way) . There are 30 levels in the game. 
 It should take the average player roughly 15-20 hours to beat. There is an incentive to play the 
 game again after you do beat it. Not all the weapons will be available on the first playthrough, 
 but once you start the second playthrough, you will unlock them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowlink-wii
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  this is the best game ever that is currently on the PS3. as this game take you to a parallel world 
 if modern and old. were old school weapons meet new school. The game keeps you on the edge of your 
 sofa. the Ai is there to do one thing only kill you and stop any way necessery and boy does it 
 do it job. but fear not young super tropper. you are given a big amount of old school weapon like 
 carbine and shotgun and your new school weapon like the bullseye and auger to take down your enemy. this 
 game gives you awsome graphic and sound for a lunch tittle. this game is not for the weak or who 
 lack pation. as the Ai will kill you alot, alot , and alot especially on superhuman as bullets will 
 follow you. this is a on good game kick in alot of time on single campain and replay is always a 
 must. THE ONLINE ROCKS the online is intense but need more stages and more features. sure your usual 
 thing are there CTF, deathmatch and TDM but it leaves you wating more. this game has few tiny problems 
 but rest is pure gold baby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  this is a great game for thouse who are going to buy a ps3! not just because it is an exelent shooter 
 but also includes a story asif it where read strait from a novel. in 1950 rumors of experiments 
 and city destruction leaked out of russia, it happened to be mutants known only as chimeran, they 
 invaded london destroying nearly every building and killing or mutating every person they could 
 find, but when the americans send troops into london to help a load of mysteries pile up about 
 the mutants. the visual in not up to scrach as other games but it has a huge campaign mode with 
 30 missions each taking atleast half an hour. in conclusion if you are considering getting a ps3... 
 GET THIS GAME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell-Fire21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 5:50 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is the FPS launch title for the PS3 by Insomniac. You've read all the nice reviews about 
 it, and rightfully so. However they fail to touch on these particular things: although you've defeated 
 the game with great weapon selections, brilliantly designs levels, advanced A. I and trial and error, 
 you won't be rewarded with something that'll draw you back to the game -- at least as far as the 
 campaign mode is concerned. Skill points amount to Concept Art Packs and MP skins... which doesn't 
 mean much when 11 Hybrids are breathing down your neck and you're getting shot through the walls. 
 You'd like to have some body armor or anything to give you some tactical advantage in the field, 
 but it doesn't happen. Don't get me wrong you'll shoot just fine, all controls are fine and active, 
 gameplay is fluid, framerate is awesome, but single player campaign to work for skill points and 
 be rewarded with something you can't USE on the second go-around means low-replayability. Unless 
 you have lots of friends for the extensive Multiplayer (which is nice with Chimera vs. Humans) , 
 I'm not sure anyone would want to get shot at and die continuously to work for skill points that 
 won't serve them any good. Great game, but lacking heavily in rewards. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardcore_gamer1
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 3, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I've been wanting to play this game for a long time and when I got the ps3 i decided to go rent 
 this game. I was surprised this game was pretty bad. It wasn't even fun and all I'm doing the whole 
 time is shooting the same guy over and over again. The weapons aren't even that great to keep me 
 interested in the game. The graphics were alright I guess. I didn't get to play this game on online 
 so i don't know what to say about that. The story was boring. Which sucks is that the controllers 
 don't even rumble and when Sony does come out with controllers that rumble I don't think this game 
 supports it. But overall I would suggest not to play this game just forget about it but if you 
 really want to then rent it before you buy it so you don't waste 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 06lhilton
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  When choosing my Ps3 bundle in chips i was greatly annoyed that they all contained another crappy 
 genric Fps, Resistance : Fall of Man,
  Upon finally choosing a bundle i decided that i would trade in Fom then and there, there's no way 
 i'm going to like this 
  When i tried to trade it in the man workign said that they dont do cash trades this early, i would 
 have to wait another 3 hours, screw that i thought and walked out.
  
  When i arrived home i ripped open my Ps3 and immediatley hooked it up downstairs to the Hdtv, I 
 played on Motorstorm and Virtua Fighter 5 for days, but alas i had worn them out, completed them 
 both, what to do now? 
  There was Fom left, i unwrapped the box and carefully slid the disc into the Ps3's shiny mouth,
 
  
  This game was better than what i would have ever dared to imagine, i was actually enjoying a Fps! 
 for the first time in my life,
  
  The Gameplay in Fom is quite mediocre, nothing makes it stand out from other Fps, the vehicle sections 
 are a nice break from the non-stop action which is experienced from start to end in this game,
 
  There is a very nice selection of guns, from the Assault Rifle, which i found myself using nearly 
 all of the way through, to the Rpg, the guns are nothing spectacular, theres no innovative guns 
 in there, nothing which would make you say 'ohhh', or 'ahhhh, but they get the job done and make 
 things fun along the way,
  
  Graphically this game is amazing, the lighting effects are beautiful, along with the particle effects, 
 this game shines, graphically, in all aspects.
  The sound is spot on, the music is always used to full effect, wether you're being warned of an 
 oncoming attack or being told that the slaughter is over, for now, either way it fits the mood 
 perfect.
  
  This game lasts a long time, there's plenty to do and will keep you entertained for a good month 
 or so, although saying that there is not much replay value, after completion nothing compelled 
 me to go through and do it all again, except Co-op Mode, which is a blast with friends (excuse 
 the pun)
  
  The game isnt the easiest game i've played, nor is it the hardest, it sits somewhere in the middle, 
 snuggled between the two, you'll die plenty of times, but not eneough to make you frustrated.
 
  The checkpoints can be placed a little too far apart sometimes, causing annoyance when you have 
 to re-do 30 minutes of a level just because you didnt notice something behind you.
  
  Overall, if you own a Ps3 then this game is a must have, it is easily one of the stronger titles 
 from the Ps3's weak launch line up, its just plain fun from start to finish,
  it changed my mind about Fps and may change your's too, you might as well give it a try, with most 
 bundles including this game, what have you got to lose? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetroidFreak800
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 10:12 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are really good. They have good textures and design. These aren't some of the best 
 but there really good.
  
  The sound is good . The main menu music is an issue though. It is so repetitive I wanted to mute 
 the t. v. half the time. Other than that it's great though.
  
  The tilt is really good. Nathan (you) is really easy to control. No bad controls or anything. There 
 actually really good.
  
  The value is really good. Lots of time will be spent online and the campign is excellent. So overall 
 if your a shooter fan this is a must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionRising
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man, the greatest video game to grace the Playstation 3's launch lineup. In 
 fact, it's the only game to actually GRACE the launch. But of course that's only my opinion.
  
  Fall of Man is a first person shooter that exceeds all expectations required in a great FPS. 
 It can proudly stand up there in the spotlight with Halo and Call of Duty.
  
  STORY
  The story of Resistance is definitely unique. The Chimeran (The enemies in the game.) virus spreads 
 throughout Asia and Europe in the early 1900s, changing the course of history so that World War 
 II never took place. The game starts in the 1950s (People thought that the whole WWII never happening 
 thing was false because the game starts in the 50s and WWII was in the 40s. Well, the Chimera have 
 been around since 1914, when they changed history, so there you have it.) The Chimera were once 
 humans who have been infected and converted. There are these large spider-like machines called 
 Goliaths that launch Spires. Each Spire contains beetle-like Chimera called Crawlers that do the 
 infecting. After it has done its job, the Crawler dies. One Spire that's shot has enough Crawlers 
 to infect thousands of humans, but a Goliath never shoots only one. The jellyfish Chimera, called 
 Carriers, carry the bodies of the infected to conversion centers to speed up the process of the 
 human turning into the Chimera.
  
  The game starts in England, and that's where it ends, too. Nathan Hale, a US soldier sent with 
 others as reinforcements against the Chimera, ends up getting infected. He lives, though. You'll 
 have to play to get the rest...
  
  GRAPHICS
  The PS3 is capable of some amazing things, and that includes wondrous graphics. Whether you're 
 playing this in 480i or anything higher (Which I recommend.) , it's going to turn out beautiful. 
 The character models are extremely detailed, and the environments are stunning. 'Nuff said.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  Gameplay is probably the most important part of a video game. If a game doesn't 
 play well, it's pretty much worthless. Fortunately, Fall of Man does play well. When I first started 
 taking down the Chimera, I thought to myself, I haven't had this much fun since I played F. E. A. R. 
 on my PC. F. E. A. R. was a great game, and I loved it down to the core. It's gameplay was awesome, 
 so if Resistance made me have as much fun as F. E. A. R. did, it's definitely something.
  
  Resistance plays ALMOST like a typical first person shooter, and at first, I thought it would. 
 But the weapons really spice up the game, as Game Informer magazine stated, Each weapon has it's 
 own personality. Now please read the last sentence in the GRAPHICS section of this review.
  
  If you don't have your PS3 hooked up to an internet connection to play online, you're really 
 missing out. If the campaign doesn't appeal to you as much as it did, online is the way to go. 
 Online consists of two different kinds of matches: Unranked and Ranked. In Unranked, you can join 
 or host a game. You can set the match type and the preferences. Now all you have to do is wait 
 a few seconds for someone to join. In Ranked, the game finds a match for you that has people with 
 the same skill level as you playing. Playing Ranked matches nets you experience points which go 
 to increasing your rank (Which starts at Private and goes all the way to Supreme Commander.) . As 
 you increase in rank, you unlock new items and skins to customize your online character. And of 
 course, you can form clans and parties to easily play with your friends.
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  The main reason that I would play this game again is to achieve all of the skill points and complete 
 the game on all difficulties. Through many hours of killing enemies and trying not to die, myself, 
 I succeeded. Good luck to you.
  
  FINAL SCORE - 8.5/10
  If you are a Playstation 3 owner and don't have Resistance: Fall of Man, I strongly recommend you 
 getting it. It is a great FPS to start out the next generation of gaming, and it's worth every 
 penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: josekillz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  From the start of the campaign youre put on a intense battle vs the chimera wich are the enemy 
 aliens whot seem to have some of the best a. i I have ever seen in games. This game is very good 
 on all aspects alot of action on sp and alot of fun on mp and can't forget to mention the amazing 
 weapons and online ranks that are fun to achieve wich are also rewarding because as you advance 
 in rank you will unlock diffrent character clothing and accesories to make youre online character 
 look more of youre liking so if youre looking for a good shooter on the ps3 look no more RFOM will 
 deliver on almost everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radx800pro
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 1, 2007 12:50 am PT
Review:  All I hear is Resistance this and Resistance that!! What a let down! Yea I know, It's a FPS so 
 you get what you pay for... NOT. For Next gen, this doesn't come close to what's already out on 
 the 360. The colors are dull and washed out and the charachter looks unremarkable as well. The 
 cutscenes are very underwhelming and usually black and white.
  
  My bigest beef is the repetitiveness of it all. After you play through the first 3-4 levels you've 
 seen and played everything the game has to offer. I found myself looking up the Walkthrough guide 
 to see if I was close to the finish just to find I wasn't even half way yet and I'd had enough. 
 Multiplayer adds a little spice to it because it's less predictable and pretty much blows away 
 the single player campaign.
  
  The should have released this as a Multiplayer exclusive game from the beginning because the SP 
 Campaign is a joke. And PLEASE PS3, start using the hardware to make better looking games!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikingsfan2772
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  insomniac brings its amazing talent to the ps3 in one of the greatest launch titles i've ever seen. 
 this game is hands down better than gears of war. This game has a 30 hour storyline which could 
 be longer depending on difficulty plus if you play the game again there are like 5 new weapons 
 which makes it all worth it. the online is really great and is embraced by ps3 owners everywhere. 
 This game is an underapreciated halo killer and the fact that people don't play the game and judge 
 to be mediocre makes me laugh at them for missing out at such an amazing game that you'll play 
 for a long time and await that sequel. MAN this game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeDi2004
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Three Years ago I was playing games better than this, both technically and graphically, I also 
 found a better storyline the last time I picked my nose!
  
  Aren't we so lucky that the Americans can save us again, with their 1950s technology that rivals 
 modern day equipment, I personally found it amusing that the Americans came up with the concept 
 of an Assault Rifle all by themselves, when the technology was really taken from the Germans in 
 1945.
  I have to hand it to the Creators... they really know their history, If its not modern day plastic 
 roadsigns in 1950s Manchester its the V-22 Osprey Transport plane that has only recently entered 
 service!
  
  I thought I would give this game a chance and play on through the first level, the ground flat 
 and undetailed, and the foliage looked like something out of Doom, I saw less pixels than the original 
 Mario Bros. After all the hype over this game it did not live up to the expectations of the PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stunner_prince
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 5:13 am PT
Review:  i believe this must be the first game for most ps3 owners. well i can't say that its a bad choice 
 too. but the developers could have put the same effort that they put on weapons on game-play. can't 
 compete with games like gears of war which has blind shooting, chase cam etc. I'm sure they can achieve 
 an awesome result if their is an sequel. graphics is good. but we can't interact much with environment. design 
 wise its excellent. storyline is really good but the slide show presentation have been avoided. skill 
 rewards and bonus unlocks are innovative. they unlock concept art and also new weapons once u beat 
 the game. co-op is also good. level design is on of the best i have seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salamancecool
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 3:45 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is the best game out at the moment for the PS3 and a must buy for everyone. 
 The single player is great, nice and long with different diffuliculty levels for you to choose. 
 The graphics are also quite nice with some great shaders and textures.
  
  But its the multiplayer where this game shines. With 40 player having a deathmatch not even halo 
 stands up too the frantic gameplay this game delivers. With loads of weapons and maps, plus a great 
 progressive ranking system similar to the battlefield games, it will be a long time before you 
 get bored with this amazing game.
  
  Definite buy for any PS3 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assesoffire
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay - 9/10
  It's a FPS, that basically it, but it's pulled off amazingly. There are some vehicle sections and 
 some really memorable battles. I think you need to take cover more than other FPSs, but I'm not 
 sure. With all the amazing weapons, you'll always be finding new ways of killing those chimeran 
 scum.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Best. Graphics. Evar. Maybe I it's because I haven't played any 360, apart from a few minutes in 
 shops. I may be comparing this to PS2 games, as that's what I've lived on for years. These graphics 
 blow you away. I zoomed into a chimera corpse's head and was like woooooah, next-gen. 
  There's this one level, and it's all built up with chimeran technology, it's all spikey and metal 
 everywhere, it's amazing in 720p. Even on a SDTV, you'll need to pick up your jaw off the floor, 
 then have some major surgery on your eyes. Then more surgery on your p***s, because you'll be so 
 turned on, because it's t3h s3cks.
  
  Sound - 8/10
  I don't pay much attention to the sound, but hearing the chimera screech as you boom headshot is 
 great. The environment sounds are good too, like smashing windows and stuff.
  Also, when there is a group of crawlers (small, spider-like enemies) , you can hear them all hissing 
 and squealing at the same time. It's makes you crap yourself.
  
  Storyline - 8/10
  As good as FPS storylines come. The chimera are aliens, they were going to take over the world, 
 but they got quarantined in Russia. They've escaped and have arrived in the UK, it's up to Sergeant 
 Hale to save the world or whatever. There's some crap about Hale becoming infected, but I haven't 
 completed it, so I can't really tell you how that goes.
  It's a decent enough storyline, better than most FPSs, it's hardly Final Fantasy or Shenmue, but 
 it'll do.
  
  Control - 9/10
  Excellent. It seems pretty standard at first, R1 to shoot (or is it R2? I can't remember) . Two 
 analogue sticks to move and move the camera. X to interact with an object and stuff. What really 
 sets it aside, even if it's a tiny feature, is shaking the controller. There's these enemies that 
 come at you really slowly, they're unarmed, but they pounce on you and bite you. You shake the 
 controller at this point to smack them in the face with the end of your gun. They could have used 
 motion sensing more though, for melee attacks or something.
  
  Special Section Alert!
  Weapons - 10/10
  Weapons get their own section when it comes to Resistance. There's the usual 
 gun you start with, it's a normal assault rifle, pretty standard. Then you pick up a Bullseye, 
 this is the main gun used by the aliens. It has a cool secondary fire, it's a tag. You fire a tag 
 at something, a wall, an enemy, then blast loads of normal fire at it. If you tagged an enemy, 
 the bullets will all be dragged towards the tag, meaning you can be a bit more reckless. If you 
 tagged a wall, you can fire a s**tload at it, it'll swirl around the tag, awaiting further instruction, 
 then you fire another tag at an enemy, and all the bullets that were swirling around fly at the 
 enemy at once, killing them, hard. There's also the auger, it can shoot through walls, and it's 
 secondary fire is a shield. I don't use the auger much as it's too slow to fire through walls. 
 There are other weapons like a sniper rifle, rocket launcher, chaingun-esque thing.
  There's a really cool grenade, the hedgehog, it fires metal spikes all over the place, very useful 
 for clearing rooms and stuff.
  The weapons are brilliant. If you thought Black was gun-porn, you haven't played this.
  
  Overall 
 - 9/10
  This game rocks. It's shooting aliens at it's finest. The weapons alone could sell this game to 
 me. Combining the cool guns with the next-gen graphics makes this a must-have for anyone with a 
 PS3 and anyone even considering one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  although alot of shooters, to me, seem kinda the same, this one follows suit. theres no added dimension 
 of gameplay, it's just run and gun. it feels like medal of honor with aliens, no big deal. granted 
 the graphics are nice, the interface and level progression are pretty good, the storyline really 
 falls short. there is just nothing about this game that stands out from any other, its just another 
 run of the mill shooter just to show off what the ps3 is more than capable of upon the consoles 
 release. i honestly dont see what people see in this game. is it that everyone just loves any and 
 every shooter that much? or are they obsessed with any game that can go online. i have not tried 
 the multiplayer yet, but based on the gameplay from the single player, im sure its nothing special. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man Review
  
  Pros:
  
  + Great Graphics - R: FOM has great graphics for a launch title. The environments are detailed, 
 the humans and the Chimera look great. The graphics while great are nothing ground breaking.
  
  + Multiplayer - Weather playing online or co-op this game has a great multiplayer experience. 
 The offline multiplayer features a co-op mode as well as split screen action. Online play is amazing. 
 The game supports up to 40 players in a single room. With a variety of multi-player modes and dedicated 
 servers the game online multiplayer experience is second to none on the Playstation 3.
  
  + Great Campaign - While the campaign is not very long (10-12 hours on easy) it is a very intensive 
 campaign. You will be fighting in ruined cities, underground, in Chimera towers, on open fields, 
 in close quarters. The campaign is well worth playing.
  
  + Great Controls - this game has great controls. It also supports PS3's SIXAXIS control functions. 
 The controls are pretty solid.
  
  + Solid AI - The Chimera are not stupid, they will use cover, retreat, attack in numbers. The AI 
 is very good but still balanced.
  
  Cons:
  
  - Repetitive - As with most FPS this game will get repetitive after a bit. - Unrealistic - The 
 game is horribly unrealistic. You can get hit 10 times, hide behind a barrier, and recover your 
 health. Closing:
  
  - The game is overall very good. It is a killer app for the PS3 and is definetly worth the purchase. 
 It has solid gameplay and an amazing multiplayer experience. If your looking for a game that will 
 keep you occupied for a couple of months before PS3's other killer apps come out this is the game 
 to get. Its not perfect, but its a solid experience. If you have a PS3 this is a game to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I'm a big FPS fan, and to date Resistance is in my top 3. Why? Because the gameplay might not be 
 that original but since they took a peice of every major FPS hit out there to date, it blends it 
 all together very well. And usually i'm all about Multi with FPS, RFOM actually had me interested 
 in playing the story. The best thing I like about it is, one level will be all out war in almost 
 like a WW II enviroment, with explosions going off, dirt flying up in the air right beside you, 
 then the next level your inching around corners in a dark spooky building not knowing how you got 
 there or where your at. And the multiplayer is just awesome, very rare do you see lag, nice options 
 to pick your outfits and what you look like and a full page of achievements to unlock to brag about, 
 like a 10 killing spree without dying, or a 100 kills with all weapons... it gives you something 
 to aim for. Only downfall I've seen is the voice chat sucks, usually cuts out, or BG noise is too 
 loud.
  And sometimes it stops working all together and you have to reset the game in order to get your 
 mic to work again. Although I've heard this has been fixed with a recent patch im not too sure 
 because I rendered the Mic useless since I mainly play FFA. I highly recommend this game to any 
 FPS fan whether it be a single player fan or a multi fan.
  
  The Down low:
  Great weapons, great online, got bored of it in maybe 6 months, default sensitivity feels natural, 
 a game to play for 3 months straight... get bored of it... then 3 months later have an urge to play 
 it again for another 3 months straight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaKierad
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Kierad Loves: Brilliant online options and ranking system, great variety of weapons, good story, 
 brilliant and varied enemy design, intelligent enemy A. I, chaotic action without a hitch in the 
 frame rate.
  Kierad Hates: brings nothing new to the table, stages are a bit linear, textures and environments 
 look a bit brown and plain in places, Ending leaves a lot to be desired, no online Co-op.
  
  Lets be honest, the PS3 has not yet established a great line-up of games like its competition. 
 But to say that it does not have any decent games is just wrong, as one great launch day game stands 
 out from the rest is Resistance: Fall of man. Although it does nothing particularly original or 
 does not reinvent the genre, it does happen to be an extremely polished and satisfying FPS and 
 the best of the First party titles to date.
  
  Resistance is an alternative time FPS where World War 2 never happened and all of Europe was invaded 
 by an alien species called the Chimera, who originated from Russia. Now Britain is the last European 
 country holding off against the Chimeran Forces in a last bid attempt to wipe them out. You play 
 as Nathan Hale, an American soldier whose American Squad mates are massacred by the Chimerans upon 
 arrival. Hale is the only survivor but has been infected by the Chimeran Virus. Throughout the 
 campaign you will see the effects that the virus takes on Hale as he battles through famous landmarks 
 in England.
  
  Gameplay wise Resistance is not much different from others in the Genre. It does not try anything 
 new but the shooting is so polished and tweak that it plays like a dream. The game borrows a lot 
 from the best such as health regeneration similar to the Halo franchise, driving sections like 
 Halo, Chaotic action like Call of Duty and enemies that Rival Half Lifes. Resistance feels very 
 much like Call of Duty, fast paced chaotic action with hundreds of things happening without a drop 
 of frame rate to be seen, which is a real great technical achievement in any game never mind a 
 launch title game. The enemies are not your dumbass every soldiers either. The chimera comes in 
 all shapes and all act intelligently to whats happening on the battlefield. For example normal 
 Hybrids come in pacts and use their numbers to advantage. They will also take cover when necessary 
 and throw grenades when you decide to take cover. The enemy design makes you take a different approach 
 to each type of Chimera whether it is a gray jack or a widow maker, you will need to find a different 
 strategy to take them down. However stages are pretty linear which means there is not always different 
 ways to approach a problem.
  
  The weapons are the real stars of the show. Insomniac have shown with Ratchet and Clank that they 
 know how to make weapons fun and interesting, and Resistance is no exception. Every weapon has 
 a primary fire and a secondary fire so the bulls eye is primarily a Chimeran machine gun but its 
 secondary fire tags enemies so you can shoot around objects or to hit very fast moving enemies. 
 While the LARK rocket launchers secondary fire can stop a rocket in mid flight and change direction. 
 There are plenty of weapons during first play through and plenty more after you have completed 
 the campaign.
  
  Graphically the Game is not the best looking Next-Gen game available but it is probably one of 
 the greatest technical achievements this gen so far. Character models are pretty detailed and bodies 
 lie their after being killed. Lets no forget that there are as many as 40 enemies and allies on 
 screen at once without any slowdown, not to mention the great physics and eplosions. The downsides 
 are that textures are awful bland and murky which means that t is not super colourful like Halo 
 or Half Life, but thats what gives the game its own authentic dirty look, as war is not supposed 
 to be happy and colourful is it.
  
  Online is phenomenal. 40 player deathmatches are brilliant with a handful of other match types 
 like meltdown and Breach, which keep it interesting. The best part is the ranking system which 
 gives you points and medals for all your online achievements such as 2 points for an assist and 
 10 for killing. The more points you get the more ranks you advance and the more option s you get 
 for crafting your online character. The medal system is really good for showing off your skills 
 and how you play online, online itself can keep you hooked for months after the single player campaign. 
 The one and only feature they should have put in the game was online Co-op, which would have made 
 this a must have game.
  
  But apart from these minor hiccups this is a great package and a promising start for Sonys lunge 
 into crafting a great Playstation exclusive FPS that can stand up to the likes of Halo.
  
  Graphics : 9
  Sound : 8
  Gameplay : 8
  Value : 9
  Tilt Value : 8
  
  Best BIt : 40 player 
 online ranked deathmatches 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  lately this is one of the only good games for the ps3. it still has it's 60 price tag. and quite 
 frankly I would say that it's worth it. the atmoshere of the game is great, and the chimera are 
 such a great enemy. multiplayer has stayed solid so far. This was the launch game for the ps3 and 
 most fps can't compare to this. i think most of it's sucess it the fact that there arn't that many 
 great multiplayer games out right now. but until another massively multiplayer game comes out for 
 the ps3, it makes me proud to own a ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooman214
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any PS3 owner out there. It was one of the first games that I got 
 for the system. First off, the gameplay is ridiculously fun. From the beginning to end the game 
 is fun. Like all of Insomniac's games, the single-player is fun and worth playing over again and 
 again for the heck of it and/or to get the skill points to unlock a cool new feature to the game. 
 The multiplayer is just as fun if not funner. It's addicting to play Team Deathmatches and Assault/Breach 
 matches for what seems like forever. The custom games is where I'm usually at now adays and sometimes 
 you can find me playing some ranked matches. The only thing is that it would cool to play co-op 
 online but it doesn't bother me that much cause the rest of the game makes up for it in the end. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haydar21101990
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Resistance :fall of man is first game i played on ps3 and its wonderful first person shooter game 
 which got the different element like single &amp; online mode and the co-op mode also which is 
 nice vand fun to play it with your friends . . . First thing is the single mode and the story about 
 the virus who spread in europe start with russia and peaople start to get infetced and transform 
 into a new creatures called the chiemara and u take the control of nathen hale a us soldier who 
 sent with his army to fight chiemara so its nice story also the single play mode is countain a 
 lot of action and excitement when you use the different weapons and also the vehciles to fight 
 the chimara . . . Second mode is the oniline and Resistance : FOM considered one of the best game 
 in online mode on ps3 for now cuz its fast , fun and packed with action you can try a new weapons 
 in the onling mode and play with chimara character and use their own powers , also there is the 
 clans in the online so you can join any clan and talk with different people and play with friends 
 , co - op mode is coll split screen to play with friend and beat the levels in story mode . . . 
 i think that Resistance : fall of man would be a nice start for anyone who will but PS3 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoA_Spinalcord
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:14 am PT
Review:  One of the best online games on PS3 to date. With clans and much more you will enjoy it :)
  An awsome story and very nice Co-Op. Get this game!
  
  The Chrimera are awsome and you actually 
 feel that you are there fighting the SOB's!
  With Capture the Flag, Deathmatchs, Assult etc Online is the best feature of the game. You can 
 have clans and it a great socilasier.
  A few kids play online and happen to have microphones. They are the reason it is not 10 because 
 they may ruin your experience with Racism or just bad team killing.
  
  But it is a game that any PS3 owner should own! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D1rk-Knight
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  when the first time I heard about this game &amp; how it awesome &amp; fun, I went to the gamespot 
 web site &amp; take a look on the images from the game, I was disappointed because I thought it 
 was another Medal Of Honor.
  But when I download the video &amp; saw the game in action I told myself, man this is the game 
 that you been searching for, then I bought it.
  When I start to play I felt like I was dreaming, because the graphic were great the story was excellent 
 the weapons were unique &amp; stylish.
  what I really loved in this game is the weapons I never see similar to it, each one has primary 
 &amp; secondary fire.
  Also the single player mode has a lot of fun.
  In the end this game worth the money &amp; the time.
  
  Great start Insomniac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KenpachiSama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  Okay. I know I gave this a high review for this reason; Resistance has all of the qualities the 
 original Halo had (except a MUCH better story) , and the graphics were absolutely beautiful. Knowing 
 that it did lack in certain areas, I didn't let it bother me too much. As a launch game, I wasn't 
 expecting a whole lot out of it in the first place. Now, even 9 months later, Resistance is still 
 the game to play when we feel like gunning each other down and getting a good laugh out of it. 
 Lots of fun and lots to do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBoss712
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Using the old rating system: Gameplay 9 - Graphics 9 - Sound 8 - Value 9 - Tilt 10. Overall: 9.2
 
  
  Resistance takes place in England 1951 but it all began in Russia in the 1930's when the first 
 reports of the chimera started surfacing. Russia tried to keep the chimera a secret but in 1949 
 they launched an attack that overwhelmed Europe. Two years later the Americans launched an assault 
 attack on England, in that assault was a Sergeant named Nathan Hale which is the main character. 
 Thats when the game starts and throughout the next four days you will be traveling all around 
 England fighting the chimera.
  
  The campaign is a ton of fun, there are 11 chapters and each one is divided into three sections. 
 There will be close quarters and open level battles. The chimera are a great opponent, they are 
 aggressive, try to overrun you with their cheer numbers, have great aim and do many other basic 
 things very well like taking cover, they might not react that well to grenades but thats what 
 makes using grenades so much fun, theres nothing more satisfying than throwing one at a group 
 of enemies and the explosion sending them flying into the air or set a room on fire full of chimera 
 and seeing them burn. The weapons are the highlight of the game, theres a great variety and they 
 all feel and sound powerful, there are standard weapons like machineguns and shoguns but there 
 are many others unique to this game, each one has alternate fire. You wont find toys like these 
 anywhere else. There are no boss battles but there are some huge battles and challenging enemies 
 which are just as good . There are vehicles sequences, unfortunately they are short but offer a 
 refreshing change of pace, driving the Jeep is lots of fun and its perfect for running chimera 
 over.
  
  The multiplayer is what will keep you busy for the most part once you finish the campaign. Theres 
 an extensive tracking system and many medals to earn. You also advance in rank by earning experience 
 points, each time you level up you get new items and accessories to change the look of your character. 
 Online play has many modes like your typical Deathmatch, capture the flag but it also has some 
 modes unique to resistance like Meltdown and Breach. There are 11 maps and online supports up to 
 40 players. Each map has difference versions that differ in size, the size of the map depends in 
 the number of players, its a smart way to keep the action constant. The development team is constantly 
 adding new features and improving online play. There are already two new maps on the PSN store 
 that you can buy and there are more on the way. Lag problems are rare so online play is very smooth.
 
  
  The visuals are spectacular, the environments design varies in each chapter. One of the most impressive 
 aspects is how much action and amount of enemies you see on screen at once without ever having 
 a frame drop or slow down problem.
  
  The story is interesting and its one of the best I have seen in a FPS, its told by long narrative 
 pieces and short cut-scenes, you also find intel info throughout the game, they are very well written 
 and help build the game atmosphere. I would have liked to see more character development, the game 
 only introduces three or four characters and the main character Nathan Hale doesnt talk much, 
 it would have been nice to know more about them. The weapons, explosions sound superb but the music 
 usually doesnt stands out, thats something I would have liked to see more work put into.
  
  The game has a good replay value, I dont know exactly how long it takes to beat it but Im 
 guessing around 12 hours which is a decent length for a FPS but there are more than enough reasons 
 to go back a give the campaign a second and even a third try. One reason is once you finish the 
 campaign for the first time you are rewarded with five new weapons which is more than enough to 
 make you go back just to try out your new toys. Other reason is co-op, great for playing with friends, 
 unfortunately its only offline. Resistance might not have Achievements points but it has something 
 far better called Skill points which actually rewards with some cool extras unlike achievements.
 
  
  Anyone that has a PS3 or likes FPS should definitely check out Resistance. I have already finished 
 the campaign three times without counting the many other times I have finished each chapter separately, 
 have spent numerous hours playing online and I still cant get enough of this game, there is nothing 
 more fun than fighting wave after wave of chimera. Looking forward to the sequel and Im very excited 
 about it, many things are still unknown about the Chimera true origins so I definitely want to 
 find out more about it and cant wait to see what new weapons Insomniac is going to come out with. 
 Thanks for reading and I hope you find my review helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3beatsxbox360
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Resistance : Fall of Man . . . One of the BEST FPS ever to be seen ! Resistance Fall of Man is 
 the best Ps3 game out at the moment ! It has many good features and + points such as : great online 
 play, including games that can hold 40 people !!! and amazingly there is still no lagg !!! Also 
 there are loads of weapons for campaign mode and online play and u can hold them all at once !!! 
 And there is a rank for how good your own person is and when you get a certain amount of exp you 
 unlock new stuff e. g. - skins such as : black-ops / x-rays, cloven (unlockable) , american, american 
 camo, american dirt, british, british brick, british green, command, commando camo, cammando leather, 
 shirtless, pilot, winters, carpwright, etc etc .... and last of all nathan hail. u can also unlock 
 backpacks etc ..... these skins dont give you any advantages they are mainly for looks. overall 
 this is a amazing game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woodsy1991
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  -Resistance Fall of Man-
  
  Well RFOM is created by Insomniac Games, and if you are a fan of First Person Shooters, this is 
 a must have game. This game is particularly impressive because of the fantastic Multiplayer function 
 which can hold a game of up to 40 Players. But first the storyline, In the Campaign mode, which 
 can also be played with friend, is left untold and I would have liked to have known the mysteries 
 of the Chimera, Cloven, and the Black Ops that you find dead on your way through the game. The 
 Game is set in 1951 and you play as the American Soldier named Sgt Nathan Hale, your in Britain, 
 which is under attack from the Chimera, From the beginning of the game you discover that the Chimera 
 have taken all of Europe and most of Asia, by the time the Americans help relieve the British soldiers 
 the highly graphically detailed environments have already been taken by the Chimera and left in 
 a mess. Sgt Hale is the only American to survive as he appears to have some sort of resistance 
 to the virus. The Game has a quick learning curve of about 30 minutes if not less. The Length on 
 the Default difficulty on One Player Mode would maybe take you 10 hours, and about 6-7 if youre 
 playing the Campaign on Two Player Mode, so this game has got some good length to it, and what 
 is great about this game is you will want to play it again, there are also secrets to discover 
 in the game which you can recover as intel so youd probably want to collect those that you have 
 missed. As you complete certain stages through the game you find yourself battling the Chimera 
 in 12 different locations such as London and Manchester, these Locations contain between 2-3 levels 
 in each, and once youve completed the game you feel that you have accomplished a lot. The Game 
 could have used the Sixaxis more but the vast amount of weapons you get to use and different environments 
 you find make up for it, after you have completed the game once you can find five new weapons to 
 use in the game. The Multiplayer in this game is very impressive, with many different game modes 
 such as the traditional Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag, but the game has its 
 own modes such as Breach, and Meltdown. Another great thing about this game is that you can unlock 
 new skins as you rank up after gaining experience whilst playing online. There are some very popular 
 skins where you have to complete the game in Superhuman mode which can only be unlocked after 
 you complete the game on Hard Difficulty so you are encouraged to play the story much more. Also 
 with the Multiplayer you can play as the Chimera who have the amazing ability to see enemies through 
 walls, but only temporarily, which makes the online much more fun. I thoroughly enjoyed this game 
 and if for those of you who have played this game youd would most likely agree with me, and the 
 story left untold leaves a doorway for a sequel which I am looking forward to. Thank You! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakep123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 2:35 am PT
Review:  Resistance is one of the FPS ive ever seen or played... the story line is not the best with a kinda 
 dissapointing ending but the its still deffiatnly worth playing... the thing that makes this game 
 so great is its multiplayer and online gameplay... Online Resistance is wana the best games seen 
 to date.. it never has problems it supports huge numbers and awesome levels and will keep u entertained 
 for hours... the ranking system and configurations are awesome and I am just as pleased with this 
 as halo or any other FPS... though its not in 1080 it looks great and the enviorments are reals 
 as can be.... the multiplayer and cooperative missions are just another great feature to this game... 
 i am very pleased with Fall of man to the point where if there is a sequal i will buy it the day 
 it comes out... this game has done nothing but impress everyone i have shown it too and will continue 
 to give me hours of fun for the time to come.. the weapons are great, the addition of new levels 
 via the playstation network is genious and the online play is dam near flawless.... if u like FPS 
 get this, if u dont, get this and u will still have fun, i have a buddy who doesnt even play shooting 
 games and he played this with me for awile... If u have a blutooth or chatting device and are competive 
 then this game will appeal to u weather not u like these kind of games or not... i am extremly 
 happy with this purchase and beleive its another thing that gives ps3 its edge as an exclusive 
 cause yea we might not have halo, but this is just as fun and also has better online and multiplayer 
 gameplay.... the storyline and cutscenes are entertaining enough to keep u glued until u beat it 
 and i am dying for a sequal.... Insomniac made this game great and should continue the series for 
 antoher great sony exclusive..... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  good
  great action
  intense levels
  lots of levels great sound
  superb graphics
  better than most fps that ive played
  
  bad
  can get frustating
  can get annoying replay 
 value isnt no walk in the park
  
  so this was a pretty fun and intense game and one of best fps ive played. its not as good as my 
 other 2 ps3 games but still fantastic!!!!! lots of levels but its lacking a good replay value. 
 id replay on a boring day but not as much as my other games. overall it was a fun game that id 
 request to any fan of the ps3 or fps fans!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stormbringa
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  After playing God of War on PS2, I doubted that I would rate any any other game a 10/10 in the 
 action/adventure category. You see I'm a hard core RPG player with little interest in FPS or action 
 adventure. I bought this game only because everyone told me that its amongst the best launch titles 
 on PS3.
  As with all FPS, you are battling aliens (or are they? hmmm) to save the planet (actually read 
 ol' mother England) . The visuals are smooth with no glitches, the sound is awesome. Game play is 
 great. Controls are the best one can have via a controller (I've always preferred the keyboard-mouse 
 combo for FPS) . Most importantly, the game ranks high on the fun factor.
  The game has exceeded my expectations in every way. There is so much replay value plus the online 
 multi player simply rocks. True value for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 18, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  If this game was to beat Halo or its sequel, then I will eat my hat. But seeing how it doesn't 
 - in anyway - I can still keep onto my hat.
  
  This game is as generic as they come. It's also quite boring, with no excitement or sense of awe 
 that Halo had. And seeing how Halo is over 5 years old, and this being a next-gen console game, 
 that kind of says it all. I. e. this game isn't as good as Halo. At all in any way, what so ever. 
 Why? Brings nothing new to the genre, the joypad isn't that well suited to the FPS genre and it's 
 so old fashioned. In fact, I will say that it wouldn't feel out of place on the PSOne. I suppose 
 there is fun to be had from this title. But the A. I is so pathetically stupid and painfully embarrassing, 
 it makes you question your investment in supposedly, the most powerful home console on the planet. 
 Even Halo, on the last gen Xbox, had believable A. I that trounces what's on offer here. It's quite 
 piss poor really when you think about it.
  
  Resistance lacks any interesting qualities in its art direction. It's so bland, grey, dull, uninspired 
 and tepid. Yeah, the game looks okay in places, that is, until you notice the repetition. Enemies 
 all look the same, and there's nothing to them to make them stand out. They're as ordinary and 
 boring as they come. Ooh, they're aliens, but it's nothing you haven't seen before. Even the level 
 design is atrocious. You think you're in a massive battlefield. But look closer and you can see 
 how the developers have cleverly made it look bigger than it actually is. You're always forced 
 down one path, you're almost hand led. I suppose this is okay, but the set pieces lack any excitement 
 or interesting qualities.
  
  The game has a Hollywood style score, with some okay voice acting. Generic sound effects and snarls 
 from the aliens. Eh, it's okay I suppose.
  
  The game is reasonably lengthy. The campaign is about ten hours, and the game has split screen 
 co-op. It's not that great to be honest. And the game also has online multiplayer. However, it's 
 missing the community component that has made Xbox Live so great. It's not nice not being able 
 to talk to your friends properly without going through great lengths.
  
  Obviously, if you have a PS3 you should buy this game because there's not many FPS' for the machine. 
 I would personally recommend The Darkness or Rainbow Six Vegas over this because both titles deliver 
 quality to the genre. This however, is so generic and bland that I can't recommend it.
  
  Still makes me laugh when people thought this was a Halo beater... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersight00
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  I have never played a first-person shooter where i was so compelled to continue even through lack 
 of sleep, most of the games it is just walk through a level killing everything in your wake. There 
 is really nothing new in the game play aside from using the SIX AXIS to shake off grappling enemies 
 but the computer AI is good at flushing you out, if stay in one place for to long by flanking or 
 throwing explosives at or near you. The multilayer standard for a first-person shooter from what 
 i can see. But there is a choice of doing the whole campaign with a friend which seems to be the 
 same story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rakuho
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  *This is not an overly detailed review, but has important game play aspects.
  
  I never like to spoil the story of the game in my reviews and it's not really my job to do so anyway 
 :) so Ill head straight into the core of the game, game play.
  
  This R: FOM doesn't re-invent the shooter by all means, but there are special elements to this title 
 that make it stand out among the FPS genre. Stand out so well, in fact, that I would consider it 
 one of the best.
  
  The campaign mode is original and lengthy. Nothing truly amazing, but then again, we don't play 
 shooter for the story, now do we?
  
  The game hosts a variety of familiar and original weapons that are used in type-specific ways, 
 to achieve the same goal, pawn J. From conventional machine guns, bazookas, and snipers to flamethrowers, 
 weapons that go through walls, ones that bounce of solid objects, grenades that shoot spikes in 
 all directions, Resistance has it all.
  
  And now R: FOM's saving grace, not that it needed it, the multiplayer. First Ill start with that 
 some of the weapons that you get to use in story mode aren't used in multiplayer. Thats a bad 
 and a good thing if you knew what the weapons do. In short, some weapons are really cheap and would 
 net easy kills without much skill at all. With that aside, let's get started on the good stuff. 
 The online lobby is one of the best I've seen, with easy-to-find ranked matches from all over the 
 globe and fun custom matches, which allow the creator to tweak the game play as much as he/she 
 wants, even enable 1 hit kills. The connection is very good, with practically no drops, thanks 
 to Sony's excellent servers, naturally. The game play matches are very fast-pace (you are also 
 allowed to run, opposite to the story mode) and can hold up to 40 players. Although the game's 
 been out for a while the online community is as strong as ever, and if you're a PS3 owner and love 
 a good FPS you probably already have this game but if you're PS3 owner who wants to try a shooter 
 but is still unsure if R: FOM is for you, all I have to say is 'go to the store and grab yourself 
 a copy,' because I was a skeptic too and this game made me appreciate the shooter genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spiredcrescent
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 15, 2007 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Resistance would be the reason for buying a PS3. Other than a cheap blu ray player. The game feels 
 like a child spawn of halo and black. The single player is just great, and co-op is not lacking. 
 Your in a post WW2 world with way past WW2 guns. The vibe of feeling powerful against a much stronger 
 foe is here, as you blast away enormous spider mechs, and just plain ol giant monster. It seems 
 this is the answer to the 360's Gears of War. The sounds are like a battlefield with the occasional 
 screech or roar of an alien attempting ot destroy you. Although the ps3 is more powerful, the graphics 
 look like they could be done on 360 as well. Multiplayer online does need work considering they 
 need to involve vehicles for their large maps. Other than that, this would be Playstaion enthusiasts 
 answer for the FPS onlsaught that microsoft seems to be going with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00kadir
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2007 8:11 am PT
Review:  Trust me, i hated/despised this game, before i played it...
  
  Well, i went to buy me a ps3. My bro wanted resistance, but after all the comments people made 
 about it on youtube etc, i was thrown off and convinced that it was ajust a cheap game that i would 
 get bored of and throw away after a while. I really thought the gameplay images wre crap and so 
 called people reviews were so -ve i was thrown off and believed it, and if anything, did the same 
 as the haters, and bashed it and opposed it, without even playing it. But based on images, videos 
 and other ppl.
  
  So i was forced to buy it by bro, AND THANK GOD i did. otherwise i dno whgt i wud be playing atm. 
 I have ninjja gaiden, oblivion, rainbow 6, the darkness etc. But the co-op on resistance and the 
 multiplayer is just too fun and brings u back always :)
  
  The maps are awesome, going thru a range of diffrnt and beautiful British Scenery!
  
  And the 
 car and tank bit was a bonus bit of fun ;p tbh this game owns. And is prob one of the best fps 
 ive played, amongst CoD, F. E. A. R, HL2, this is amongst the top.
  
  Best launch title n all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cenamena
Rating: 8.2
Date: Aug 14, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  this is your typical FPS but with a twist. it's set in england. hurray. that's one of the reasons 
 why i think this game is good. another reason is the guns. sure you've got the standerd arsenal of 
 weapons like the machine gun or the shotgun. but there's a sniper rifle that can slow down time 
 or a sapper that shoot out exploding bubbles. the enemies may not be the brightest bunch but there 
 are sme beasties thar don't need decent AI to kill you. and the length of the campaign is good enough 
 to last you a couple of days and that's only on one difficulty. but this game has it's downsides. the 
 plot is thin and dull. sometimes it can be impossible to fight off the hordes of enemies that is 
 thrown at you. and some of the enemies take ages to kill. not many boss battles either (although 
 all the large enemies seem like mini-bosses anyway) . multiplayer is a brawl.40 player matches is 
 incredible but can sometimes it can get out of hand and seems like you can't get a kill because 
 everybody else is already dead. all i can say is if you have a ps3 then you should try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino213
Rating: 8.6
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  This is a 1st person shooter with a twist. Youre in the same time period of world war 2 but youre 
 not shooting germans youre shooting the Chimera. The chimera are a mutated alien race made in Russia. 
 They took over Russia and eventually most of the world including Britan. Yikes.
  You play as American soldier Nathan Hale trying to destroy this race along with some British soldiers 
 and save the world. You'll be trekking all over England killing aliens along the way, whether youre 
 in one of their dark underground bases all alone or on a bloody battlefield with an army behind 
 you.
  I'll start with the weapons first. There are many weapons in this game. There's youre standard 
 carbine and human weapon and there's your standard evil alien weapons. I say the alien weapons 
 are better. Some can shoot through solid objects, while some shoot sticky blobs of goo that explode 
 upon contact. Each weapon has a secondary fire as well, provided to turn the tide of battle if things 
 get hairy. There are also some vehicles to control. A tank, a halo-like jeep with a turret and 
 a chimeran vehicle called the stalker.
  The enemies of the game vary in size, shape and strength. There may be a simple chimeran foot soldier 
 but could soon be backed up by upgraded version of that enemy with better weapons. And these alien 
 dont go down easy. It could tahe several rounds to take down a specific enemy.
  The graphics are stunning with interacteble enviroments with great detail.
  Sound is good with 
 in-game radio messages popping up clearly.
  Storyline is not too good since there aren't much characters but it is still interesting.
  The 
 multiplayer is something to gawp at. With classic games such as deathmatch, capture the flag and 
 team deathmatch along with some new additions you'll be satisfied for hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slaygo
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Awesome shooter for the Playstation 3. My very first game and it is one that I will replay many 
 times and a great story.. Very fun sci fi game with a mature rating. I love playing this game the 
 weapons are cool and the story is very good. The action is non stop and the enemys are very cool 
 with alot of different ones. The online is very good and the diffuiculty levels are easy medium 
 and hard and superhuman . Im very glad I bought this game and will keep playing this game for real 
 long time. They have a cooperative story mode to play with a friend. How cool is that ? If you 
 like firt person shooters this is one to get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pisto89
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 13, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man was created by insominiac games... also today this team can create another 
 good videogame...
  
  Let's start talking about the strongest part... the IMMERSION... resistance is completely redesigned 
 by developers to create a different type of immersion sensation inside the game... unlike the previously 
 titles now we have a game similar at doom3 or something like as... we must to defeat chimera's legions 
 to reconquer entirely the old england and to do this we must go on to shoot the different type 
 of chimera with the biggest WEAPON! The graphic is good, we have a lot of ai movements in single 
 arena and this create the classic immersion like as call of duty's series.... we have all type 
 of shader effects... but without a high definition textures... maybe because the team didn't knowed 
 exploit the really potential of play station 3 or maybe because cell processor is too hard to program... 
 The audio in some closed places is well builded to create immersion like as doom3 ... but is spoiled 
 but the constatly apparitions of chimera, when we go out we remember the old call of duty's soundtrack.
 
  
  The multiplayer's connection is really good and the maps are great! the research system of match 
 is really good because you can find similar player to you and this help the game to increase the 
 funny...
  
  i can say that this game is good but with some minor problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 191
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 12, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  If you love atmospheric first person shooters, this games does fit the bill really well. The graphics 
 are very good, the sound is amazing and the gameplay itself is really fun and challenging.
  
  The crazy weapons do make the game even better and add a new depth of stategy to the gameplay. 
 When you finish the campaign the first time you will unlock new weapons to use the second time 
 through and those weapons are even crazier.
  
  The online of the game is also excellent, it is fun to play and it is free. There is almost no 
 voice chat but if you are like me, that is a good thing. R: FoM online is just a fun blast fest 
 with no need to talk to people like on live.
  
  If you are in doubt whether to buy a PS3 or not, i can only recommend you do because this FPS is 
 simply great and well worth the investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalhead164
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 11, 2007 10:57 am PT
Review:  Resistance is my favorite game on the PS3 now and once you play it you will understand why. This 
 is a reaaly fun game this saved the PS3 in it's time of need and that is what really made the sales 
 go up. The gameplay is great and, though this game gets some getting used to. Insomniac games really 
 worked hard on this game and it is obvious that this game was not a rush. The graphics are good 
 not great though they could have made a few adjustments like making the picture a bit more clear. 
 This game is not like your average shooters, in Resistance you have a health bar and the enemies 
 that you fight are not easy to shoot down at all and you fight bosses. This game is creative the 
 wepons are new, and the multiplayer is cool. You have a huge variety of wepons at your arsenal 
 and it is hard to get bored on this amazing FPS. Your teamates do not do all of you job for you 
 they don't kill every single opponent for you, you acually get a challenge on this game. This is 
 a really fun game and a definet buy for your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MorkkiTH
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man is great fps game on playstation 3. It brings you amazing graphics and 
 great story which is interesting and very entertaining. You start an American soldier that is come 
 to England helps english soldiers to fight chimera named enemies. It doesn't take long time to 
 story get you interested and it will start very quickly. Firstly you are fighting on different 
 English cities or just outside of cities. When story goes on you are starting to get more sci-fi 
 kind of places. This could be done very poorly but this game doesn't let you down even when you 
 are going to these sci-fi kinds of places. Like almost all fps games there is couple of vehicle 
 levels where you can drive tank, spider robot (like I call it) or jeep. These are done pretty well 
 which was little bit surprise for me. When you pass example easy difficulty level you get more 
 weapons on your next try for harder difficulty.
  
  What I could say about graphics. Graphics are amazing. It's really good looking and sharp. Character 
 models are done great and environments also look great. Sounds are also done very well. Sounds 
 of explosions and gunfire sounds just right. Voice actors also did do well. Every character sounded 
 just right. Almost everything feels just right in this game. If you are PS3 owner and love fps 
 games. Buy Resistance: Fall Of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorillaz_3230
Rating: 9.2
Date: Aug 10, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  I thought that this game would be crumby, due to it being a launch title, however i was very wrong.
 
  
  I find that i always want to complete the game before going online, and ROFM was no exception.
 
  
  The thing that i love about this game is the replay value. You dont just finish it once, then put 
 it back in it's box... The game has things like unlockables and collectables, like extra content 
 (weapons etc) .
  
  So after i had completed it to it's full extent, which took me longer than any other game i have 
 ever played, i decided to go online.
  
  I thought that the online wouldn't be great, because of my bad experience wwith other older PS 
 FPS, but once again i was wrong.
  
  The onlineis incredibly good, ranging to many different map types, and up to 40 players!
  
 
  It is most definately a must have for a PS3 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aldebaran91
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great game. the best shooter game that i have
  However, anybody who has taken the time to really play this game will tell you how beautiful it 
 really is. The graphics are amazing. There is terrific detail in just about every little thing, 
 and your field of vision is always large and clear. The sound is nothing special, but it's nothing 
 bad, either. The controls are just about perfect, with all the buttons seeming to correspond to 
 the most natural action. The gameplay is fast and furious for the most part, but there are some 
 stages where the popular (and sometimes boring) tunnel shooting comes in to play. These stages, 
 however, just make you thirst more for the battle stages. The levels with the big battles against 
 swarms of enemies are some of the most enjoyable I have ever played, and the replay value of these 
 specific stages is high.
  What really puts Resistance up there, though, are the weapons. This game has the most amazing arsenal 
 of weapons I've ever seen. There are three different grenades (basic frag, basic incendiary, and 
 an awesome Hedgehog grenade that sends large metal spikes flying in all directions) and each has 
 its own specific strengths and weaknesses. The guns are awesome, from the alien machine gun with 
 the homing device to the rocket launcher that lets you readjust your shot while the rocket suspends 
 itself in the air.
  The bad guys are original and varied, there are a few vehicles that are fun, and the multi-player, 
 both online and off, is fantastic. Any person considered to be a fan of FPS games should pick this 
 one up as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegito1669
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 9, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  This game is a wonderful shooter. It was was my second game for the Playstation 3. (The first was 
 Call of Duty 3) . If you play this game, you must have an HDTV. Along with the HDTV the visuals 
 are stunning. After you kill a Chimera (enemy0 you should zoom in on their face, and take a look 
 at all the details. Resistance: Fall of Man also has a great asortment of weapons and stages. I 
 don't know if I can list the guns off the top of my head, but there is the Carbine, Bullseye, Bullseye 
 2, Laark, Auger, Auger 2, Rosemore, Dragon, Fryre, and thats about all I can remember of the top 
 of my head. As for grenages, there are 4 first is the regular grenade, and it does what a regular 
 grenade should. Then is the Air Fuel grenages, which emits gas into the surrounding area, then 
 the gas burns into flames! And then there is the hedgehog (my personal favorite) , it is a bomb 
 with spikes, when it blows up it sendsthe spikes flying in all directions. The last one Is an exclusive 
 to Campaign Mode. The Backlash grenade! And as it says in the name, this grenade reflects all weapons 
 attacks back a the shooter (excluding grenades) . This grenades puts up a pretty big forcefield 
 that protects you. At first I was wondering why shooters have so many guns if all they do is kill 
 the same. But in Resistance the guns all have different ways of killing enemies. For example, the 
 Auger has the ability to kill enemies through walls, and has a shield that you can put up at will. 
 The Bulleyes have a tag system, this is when you tag the enemy and then every shot fired hits the 
 tagged target. The Fryre, this gun a sniper, but the special ability is awesome, it has the power 
 to slow down time! That along with the zoom you can kill your enemy anyway you want. The storyline 
 of Fall of Man, is great, but I wont talk to much about it. Let's just say it was a possible alternate 
 reality. But surelly you will enjoy the story. As for online gameplay. This is a wonderfull feature. 
 You can create online clans and have wars, or play free-4-all. The maximum amount of players per 
 game is forty. Most of the stages in the online gameplay feature were not in the Campaign Mode, 
 so it is definitely worth playing. The controls for the game is pretty much the same as any shooter, 
 so don't worry about have trouble playing the game, its easy! So if you have a PS3 and don't have 
 Resistance: Fall of Man, your crazy, this is one of the best games for the PS3. You need to get 
 off your lazy butt and go buy or rent this game.
  
  
  ---------A. K. A. Dhyan ---------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoscheese
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2007 4:05 am PT
Review:  This game is for all those Call of Duty fans out there. Insomniac have basically stripped the great 
 WWII shooter of it's Germans and put in some pretty cool aliens instead, but they keep the great 
 atmospheric appearance that C. O. D games had.
  The imagination of some of the weapons is amazing where say the humans would be carrying shotguns 
 and the like whereas the Chimera (aliens) would be carrying a much more souped up arsenal.
  One of the main features is the massive 40 player battles which see a number of teams battle it 
 out or the sensational free for all where you need all your wits about you.
  So if you own a PS3 and liked the C. O. D series this is a game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jay_k3
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  I know that I'm pretty late on the review for this game, but I love playing it. I have one friend 
 who has a ps3 and I play his ps3 more than he does. This game is awesome especially online. You 
 basically fight against aliens during the world war 2 era. You are based in England and this is 
 the place where all the action is. The battles in this game are very hard to describe and it shows 
 how excellent this game is on the PS3. The graphics and the physics in this game are much different 
 compared to other consoles. The graphics is similar to the standards of the 360, but the physics 
 have more definition. This game is pretty exciting and the gamplay is awesome. Personally this 
 game is a must have for anyone who has a ps3. This game truly shows how awesome the ps3 is and 
 I am excited for other shooters that come out for the playstation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Wow... just plain wow...
  When i got my PS3 i chose RFOM and i was impressed. The first scenes showed me amazing graphics 
 and promises of action in every level. The single player game is immersive and long enough to satisfy. 
 the enemy A. I. is smart and makes most FPS A. I. look like a bunch of flashlights flashing on and 
 off, with no real goal in life. The storyline is pretty intense but the gameplay isn't very imaginable, 
 However, the weapons are great! i love all of them. i expected a great arsenal of weapons because 
 of Ratchet and Clank and i got more than i wanted! and man am i ever impressed. The Vehicles are 
 also great but i wish you could use em in the multiplayer. and speaking of multiplayer, man is 
 it ever intense. guns firing from every direction and explosions everywhere. The game sometimes 
 gets difficult in some points but after you pass them, you get a great feel of achievment.
  I love this game and im pretty sure you would too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xmaster888
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man has got o be the best first person shooter i have ever played so far. The 
 graphics are astounding and very realistic. The story is excellent, very thorough and with some 
 nice plot twists. The game has the plot of a very good movie, futuristic thiller. The game has 
 a wide choice of weapons to choose from from human weapons to alien weapons. Each are specialised 
 and there are always lots of options to take down your enemy.
  
  What I like about the game is the enemies. Although hard to take down you'll find that they are 
 very inteligent and they don't mess around. With this difficulty the game challenges you to be 
 on your toes and it is this challenge that really adds to the great gameplay. There is also a wide 
 array of enemies that only get stronger as the game goes on. The game also has a lot of unexpected 
 enemies popping out of nowhere. The game really gets you to be carefull as in all cases, if you 
 run into a firefight, you will die in seconds. The game also has a good atmosphere and good sound 
 and that helps you locate your enemies or even hear if you're going to run into an ambush.
  
  It also has good multiplayer support both online and offline. The maps can be as big or as 
 small as yo want them to be and you can instantly be familiar with them if you play the campaign. 
 The only thing i would criticise is the difficulty. But overall a very good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kainscionofbala
Rating: 9.1
Date: Aug 5, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  Now Resistance: Fall of man is a good game. That I think kicks gears of wars ass online. Resistance: 
 Fall of man has No/ hardly any lag online that I have seen so far, and I'm running my PS3 wireless 
 at the moment. Team Death Match is very good. But I don't like capture the flag as some jerk-off 
 will always keep the opposing flag right near your base and not drop it in. Even though you only 
 have 1 point, and need the extra just to secure your lead. Now I do enjoy single player, but I 
 do have a problem with co-op mode which makes my score for this a 9.1 (wanted it a 9 but I stand 
 by the gameplay etc scores I gave it) not a 9.9 and that's there are no more enemies. You have 
 an extra person controlled Character but no more enemies it isn't more difficult nothing. I actually 
 got further with my friend than I did on my own. Anyway I have no more to add at this time. In 
 conclusion R: F. O. M. is a great game which you should all buy. Thanks for reading :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth_rules
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  What are my reasons?
  
  First of all, the gameplay ... when you start to play the game, the first few minutes show you 
 the basics of the controls : shooting, throwing grenades and hitting the nonhuman soldiers, etc. 
 The game is commonly base on the instinct of the soldier aka the player to finish his mission with 
 a lot of dead behind him. Through the entire game, you learn you use your instinct when you hide, 
 sneak or kill some of the bad guys. The gameplay was very easy once you past the first fifteen 
 minutes.
  
  Second of all, the story ... what so great about going on a war versus alien-looking soldiers? 
 They're not even human.... That's where I say that there's a reason to every war, even this one. 
 As you play through the game, you learn things about these "monstrer soldiers", things like : Why 
 are they so many? Were they human? etc. In overall, I can say that the game often scared me because 
 the story was so immersive and great.
  
  Third of all, the sounds ... what can I say regarding this aspect? I think that the story wouldn't 
 be great if there wasn't any background music. The kind of music that scares the crap out of you 
 every time you walk near a corner or in a dark place. Most of the time I've played this game, I 
 was in the dark. So I couldn't fully focus all of my attention on the game because the music made 
 the game looks so real. To conclude this part, I can say that the music was very good and makes 
 the story more immersive and great.
  
  Fourth of all, the graphics... I'll be short.... the visual aspects were the most amazing, wonderful, etc... 
 I've saw in my life of FPS gamer. This game has the best graphics for a war versus alien-looking 
 soldiers game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sa_mccormick
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  I played the demo for Resistance Fall of Man (RFoM) at a friends house and died almost straight 
 away, which didnt bode well for a long time FPS fan! Despite this, RFoM still remained the title 
 I wanted in the PS3 bundles on offer.
  
  Now that Ive played the full version, I am happy to report that the difficulty level is spot on; 
 it is just difficult enough to provide a bit of tension when youre playing, which adds to the 
 experience. This game will punish you if you wade in all of the time; this is just right for those 
 who like to move from cover to cover and methodically clear an area. Thankfully, enemies do not 
 regenerate.
  
  The environments in the game arent jaw-dropping, but sharp, believable and pretty decent. I would 
 show this game to non-PS3 owner and not feel ashamed. The guns feel the business: they do a pleasing 
 amount of damage to your enemies and sound great, although, the enemies arent a push over and 
 wont fall with just one bullet!
  
  My only gripe with RFoM is that there is very little to do other than shoot, and there always seems 
 to be only one path to take: all other doors are closed and your character can not open them.
 
  
  In conclusion, this is a pretty good FPS, which more than fills the gap before the big titles, 
 like Killzone 2, Black 2, are released next year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drbob33
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Well, I finally got around to getting a PS3, so of course I had to pick up this game. I don't think 
 its terribly revolutionary, but it's certainly a lot of fun.
  
  Good: Graphics are sharp and colorful. Weapons are well done and fun to use. 40 player online play 
 is SWEET. Campaign is well thought out and has solid pacing. It's challenging and fun from start 
 to finish.
  
  Bad: Sound is less than stellar. Story doesn't make a whole lot of sense (I still don't know what 
 exactly a Chimera is...) . Lack of rumble sucks. Shaking sixaxis feels weird if you play the Wii 
 at all.
  
  Verdict: Definite buy. Great multiplayer community even over a year after release. Solid campaign 
 for a shooter and excellent fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeyfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Ok ill just say it, at first i didnt want to buy the game all i thought it was, is just another 
 game were u shoot monster and i already own doom3 so w. e but them my gf bought it for me and O_O 
 wow THANK GOD she did.
  
  The story is really good, the enemies are pretty much the same ones but cuz of the guns and stuff 
 its always awesome. so the campaing is really good and its challenging and it makes you ready for 
 the real reason peoples buy this game and thats for the online play.
  
  The online game really made me go back to think of halo 1 DAMN that was awesome but this game doesnt 
 really act like halo thats y its its own game (good stuff) . Although its not like halo its pretty 
 damn awesome :D well i think so. You have to keep moving and know how to aim and hope your faster 
 then everyone else.
  
  What i hate about this game is that if you dont know anything about how to play and you go and 
 play online, people will OWN you. KEEP MOVING AND YOU'LL HAVE FUN (online i mean)
  
  If you have a friend over, this game is pretty awesome :D ... not halo or goldeneye but its still 
 one of the best ones out there. Im sure that if you give it some time and a good go at it, you'll 
 love it. My user name online is thefrankster16. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiCe1ner
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I recommend it to EVERYONE with a ps3. Everyone Please get to me on my ps3 id. TurkSemzz and add 
 me as a friend on ps3 and gamespot. this game is worth the time. and i look forward in playing 
 some of you on the internet. insomniac and sony are good. the graphics in this game is very well 
 completed and the online play is to. im new to the ps3 so please add me on my ps3 id and/or gamespot. 
 thanks. this website is now pissing me off because it says i have to put at least 100 words and 
 this is my first review so i just wrote some stupid stuff to fill the hundred words so basically 
 dont read the rest of the review because its nothing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man_wit_munny
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  simply incredible, this game is probably one of the greatest first person shooters of all time, 
 right up there with Call of Duty and Rainbow Six Vegas, this is definately one of the best reasons 
 to buy a PS3, the insane graphics make you feel like you are actually in a chimerin base, the AI 
 is not a let down either, the AI willl take cover when needed and will use whatever weapons you 
 would probalby use in the same situation and react like you would react, all in all this is a great 
 game, as to its 360 counterpart, Gears of War, I say screw Gears and get Resistance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LinkinPark1992
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is by far the best game for the ps3. It is an instant classic for the ps3. 
 Its graphics and game play rival other popular games, such as Gears of War and Tom Clancy's Rainbow 
 Six Vegas. Resistance has the best on line play I have ever seen. With the option to choose any 
 type of game (map, # of players, game type, weapons, # of rounds, and many other options) you would 
 like, it allows you to do whatever you want. This game is a great value and should be bought by 
 anyone who has the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Smooth, open, very warlike, great weapons, the coolist sniper rifle effects i have seen. No framerate 
 issues, loads well, kind of reminds you a bit like Half Life with out all the puzzles, just straight 
 forward shooting with somewhat destructable envirements. Its only drawback is that is not quite 
 next gen looking but doesnt take away from all the fun! Occasional crash but not frequent.. Now 
 we just need more games for the PS3..
  
  RECOMMENDATION; A MUST BUY ! xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx xxx x x x x x x x 
 x x x x x x x x x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradley7777
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 29, 2007 2:26 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great game. It has everything a FPS should have in its genre, intense 
 combat scenes, moderate horror and a whole bunch of special weapons. In the game you play as Seargant 
 Nathan Hale, a Yank who has come to help the British fight against the Chimera, a alien race who 
 came out of Russia and thought 'I've got an idea, lets destroy the Earth'. After obliterating Europe, 
 they invade good'ol Britian. This is when you come in, you have to save Britain from the Chimera 
 menace. The playability is great for the price. When you clock it you geta message saying 'You 
 have unlocked new weapons, play through the game again to acess them', so if you thought playing 
 it the first time round was a doddle, this time is gonna be a vacation. The other things that are 
 good are the intel you get. Some you will unlock automatically, like when you find a new weapon 
 or discover a new type of menace. Others you will have to find. There is also a point system. If 
 you do something cool e. g kill five Chimera with fire you will get skill points. When you keep 
 doing stuff like this you can unlock stuff. The lowlights are that at some points it can get boring 
 e. g you could go through a level just doing the same thing like going from on point to the other 
 and it encourages you to turn it off. Overall summary, a great game for die hard FPS fans, but 
 if you're not, don't bother 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MAJORMOIST
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 4:59 pm PT
Review:  The game has an awesome storyline, awesome graphics, and great AI enemies. If you like shooters 
 ,then give your system a jumpstart with this one. One neat aspect is the innovation of the weaponry 
 . There's a gun that you tag a enemy with a censor and no matter where they run, they can't hide, 
 cause when you start blazing them they're gonners --Your bullets will go around walls until it 
 finds that implanted censor. Also there's a grenade that looks like a hedgehog. When it explodes, 
 get out of the way ,cause spikes deploy all over the room stabbing anything in their path . Visuals 
 of the aliens is terrific. They look all slimy and real up close. Also, don't forget to stop and 
 take a look at your enviroments, cause they might be the best ones on any console right now. Online 
 supports 32 players and I've experienced no lag. However, better be on your A- game or your toast. 
 Comes in second to Gears of War ,but not too far behind it. Teamwork is the key to winning this 
 game. Overall, there's no reason not to buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wardy08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 28, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Well I spent all those hours queuing to buy my Playstation 3 on release day, I knew I was in for 
 a treat when I got my first 2 games, Resistance and Motorstorm, now I will raise my hands and say 
 I spent my first 5 days playing Motorstorm constantly, leaving my Resistance to Gather Dust, how 
 could I be so stupid, I finally decided to put it into the console for the first time, and I am 
 glad to say Resistance stole my ps3 shooter virginity. I began a new campaign and I was blown away 
 by the sheer excellence of the game play, the explosions look realistic and with the right sound 
 system, you feel right in the action, and then the first meeting, Human Vs Chimera. I Must Say 
 the Chimera were excellently designed and gave you the feeling that this is a shooter like no other 
 you have never experienced. The sound of the bullets emptying from my clip gave me an immense sense 
 of self satisfaction, as the Chimera met their maker I couldnt help but think this is the best 
 game I have ever played, The Storyline is so unique you have to wonder where the idea came from, 
 I found that unlike most games this never becomes repetitive as it seems to add new characters 
 to the fray at just the right moment, the newer harder enemies also make the challenge increase, 
 after 8 hours of play I decided to try the joy off online as it had thrilled me with Motorstorm, 
 I signed on, and joined a Team Deathmatch in what is now my favourite map Manchester, I stood in 
 a Abandoned Building with my sniper rifle picking off members of the opposing team like shooting 
 fish in a barrel, it was then that I realised how important it is to Team Deathmatch to have a 
 partner to help you, I saw a fast approaching enemy who ran into an alleyway, I kept my eyes peeled 
 not realising that while he had all of my attention, someone had got onto my floor and gave me 
 a blast to the head with a shotgun which shot me out of the window, and as I fell I saw the hiding 
 man run from the spot, now that was clever, I now always make sure to have aid if I want to snipe, 
 I am now into the game so much that I play it everyday, well I think I have said enough, go out 
 and get the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Troymaster12
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 6:00 pm PT
Review:  simply incredible, this game is probably one of the greatest first person shooters of all time, 
 right up there with Call of Duty and Rainbow Six Vegas, this is definately one of the best reasons 
 to buy a PS3, the insane graphics make you feel like you are actually in a chimerin base, the AI 
 is not a let down either, the AI willl take cover when needed and will use whatever weapons you 
 would probalby use in the same situation and react like you would react, all in all this is a great 
 game, as to its 360 counterpart, Gears of War, I say screw Gears and get Resistance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HK-47-M4
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the few games that saved the PS3's launch lineup. There is a 
 reason why it sold 2 Million copies: It's just fun to play. The co-op mode allows you to play with 
 a friend which adds to the fun. The onlline mode is great and has an awesome matchmaking system. 
 It also supports a whopping 40 players online. The only downside to the whole gameplay experience 
 is that their is no co-op availableo online.
  
  The graphics and sound are above average and are very nicely done in this game. This game is well 
 worth your money and any gamer should enjoy it. My advice: GET THIS GAME IT JUST PLAIN OUT ROCKS. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freelancer223
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is the game that brought to the world of first person shooters; I never really liked 
 this style of games before and when I brought my PS3 there werent many games out for it that interested 
 me so I thought that I might as well have this and try it out, and luckily I really enjoyed this 
 game since I first played it, I just got hooked on it and its a lot better than the other game 
 that I brought (Genji  waste of time) . The AI in this game is very good as, they act as they would 
 if you were playing real life people, taking cover, moving and attacking when the time is right. 
 Another good point about the game is that tense atmospheres that are created when playing the game 
 it feels like your actually there and you dont know where to turn as their could be an enemy anywhere 
 and everywhere. The storyline is fairly interesting it could have been done better but thats nothing 
 really. The online modes are brilliant and you have many modes such as free for all, team death 
 match and team objective. Which means that you can have a variety of different modes when playing 
 with friends and potential friends. The online modes can hold up to 40 players in one match which 
 allows for some serious gun fighting, there are also customisable levels that you can play if you 
 want to play with your own rules. A problem that I have found with the Resistance online is that 
 the communication is not done that well, I dont know if its due t the game or that people just 
 want to talk on this game but people just dont communicate with others like I have found on other 
 PS3 games online. If you want a quality FPS to either play solo or online then this is the game 
 that you should add to your PS3 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marvelrocks
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 26, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  As I said before, it isn't a revolutionary, flawless, or even superb game, but it's still, mad, 
 bloody, furious sci-fi action. But its lack of innovation and refinement is fortunately compensated 
 by a solid and fun execution of the predominant gameplay elements in most first-person shooters. 
 And just as with the gameplay, it relies on the typical premise of Save the Earth from alien invaders! 
 And it tries to be original by taking place in the 1940's or 50's of an alternate version of Earth 
 where World War 2 never happened. So at least we've got to give them credit for the unique setting. 
 And the cutscenes make it even more believable. Gameplay, as I've already repeated two tedious 
 times, offers the tried-and-true mechanics of most FPS's: get from point A to point B, kill (or 
 more specifically, shoot) any monster that gets in your way, avoid any obstacles or traps, and 
 pass parts of the missions in vehicles. And those same mechanics are simpleton, though a bit clunky. 
 (I needed my friend's help all the time just to survive!) Detract from the experience with complicated 
 and un-strategically placed controls. I didn't even know which button I needed to press to shoot 
 the scumbags trying to blow my brains. The mission structure is linear and scripted, so even while 
 the levels are fun and intense, they aren't anything special. You (and your partner, if you're 
 playing cooperative) must move through the environments and survive the different trials (with 
 those same recycled gameplay mechanics) that the malevolous Chimeras (the aliens that try to convert 
 humanity to their species) impose on you. Coop-wise, it basically plays the same, with the exceptions 
 that the 2 people playing can work as a team (obviously) and that if one player is killed, the 
 other must survive for a specified amount of seconds you or him/her resucitates. If you want to 
 double the fun and lessen the difficulty, I highly recommend you
  coop over single-player. Another problem, besides the scarcity of originality and creativity, that 
 keeps me from giving this game a higher rating, is that the Chimeras, and the creatures that are 
 on their side, simply behave like fast and aggressive drones trying to kill you instead of adapting 
 their strategies and patterns to what you do, taking away any possible strategic element. And online, 
 even if the multiplayer alows for up to 40 people to battle each other at the same time, is a bit 
 of a bummer concerning how flawed the PS3's internet features are compared to Xbox Live, Nintendo 
 wi-Fi and opera. Now let's talk about the graphics. While being a technical showcase for the PS3, 
 Resistance looks muddy and excessively sharp. Thanks to that, you have trouble seeing what's happening 
 on-screen. The framerate is only slight smooth, and I could swear I saw more fluid animations in 
 the menus and loading screens! And it isn't the most beautiful or deatailed game on the system, 
 either (launch games aren't supposed to be killer now, do they?) . Even so, Resistance's visuals 
 are suitable enough for PS3 standards and movie special effects. The sound is great, with the realistic 
 human voice-overs and monster cries that the Chimera emit. But I don't think they perfectly match 
 Hollywood quality yet. Add to the sound flaws the fact that the musical scores are forgettable 
 and absent from core gameplay. Overall, Resistance: Fall of Man is a solid and fun start for the 
 PS3, but better games are already here. I especially recommend Ninja Gaiden Sigma, Rainbow Six 
 Vegas and The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. (This review was written by marvelrocks' older brother. 
 He lent me his account. And by the way, since my family doesn't have the money for that overrated 
 and overpriced system, I played the game at my friend's house.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Yes, Resistance: Fall of Man is that good. I know, I didn't expect it either. It was decent at 
 E3, and with all the hype surrounding Gears of War I almost forgot about Resistance. Yeah, that 
 was a mistake.
  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the best first person shooters on any system. Graphically, it 
 was everything one could expect from a next gen title, killer models, intense textures, lots of 
 effects. The score is better than any sci-fi movie I've seen lately, and the concept is pure genius. 
 People love WWII shooters, people love aliens... hmmm, put them together and presto! You have one 
 of the most original FPS stories to date.
  
  Of course it isn't all about the eye and ear candy (which tastes oh, so sweet) , Resistance plays 
 like a dream. The controls are tight and there isn't a hint of frame rate or animation issues (Gears 
 I'm looking at you!) . The huge variety of human and alien weapons keep things interesting. Every 
 weapon has a primary and alt fire, and, unlike Halo you can cary more than two around. The weapon 
 that stole our hearts is the alien Auger. It's primary fire goes through walls and objects, gaining 
 strength as it does, and the alt fir throws up a force shield, the only downside is when a pod 
 of aliens shows up with them and your cover means nothing.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a killer single player game, but online, it simply dominates. First, 
 let me remind you that it's free to play online. Rankings, matchmaking, all of it is free. Second 
 you get six maps, a ton of game modes, and can fight up to 39 other people. Yes, 40 person battles, 
 and it runs without a hitch.
  
  Very rarely does a launch title deserve this much praise. Yet, aside from one little glitch, I 
 could occasionally walk through fallen enemies, I cannot find fault with this game. Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is what every FPS should be, excellent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sean-carsner
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2007 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man, a PS3 exclusive, shows off the PS3's blueray technology by putting in a 
 lot of content such as the number of levels and weapons. Resistance takes place during the time 
 period of WWII and a raid of mutants break out of Russia to basically take over the world. You 
 are given the opportunity to play through the eyes of Nathan Hale, an american soldier whos ready 
 for combat 24/7 and wont take no for an answer. Your job as Nathan Hale is to fight along side 
 the british and help take out the mutants, known as the chimera.
  
  Since Resistance is made by Insomniac games, there are going to be a wide variety of weapons, both 
 chimeran and human, each with an alternate fire. Like the Bullseye, the main chimeran weapon, has 
 an ability to shoot a homing device that would cause every shot you take to go straight to the 
 homing device. Or like the Rossmore, a powerful shotgun, than gives you a choice of shooting 1 
 or 2 shells at once. As you progress in the game you may also come across turrets you could be 
 in or getting into a tank while coming across different kinds of chimeran. You could also find 
 documents that explain more about the chimeran. Unfortunately, there wasnt much personality shown 
 in the characters as we hoped.
  
  And yes, there is a co-op mode that allows you to go through the story with a friend. There is 
 also a multiplayer mode that allows you to play on or offline against or with friends. Online, 
 you can play with up to 40 people, wich can make very challenging matches.
  
  Resistance Fall of Man, overall, is a very good game and recommended to all PS3 owners who like 
 first person shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superiorNilly
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The first game I played when I got my PS3, and definitely one of the best FPS's ive played so far. 
 You can just simply pick this up and start playing. Although it can be quite difficult at times 
 you'll be blowing up chimera in no time. The gameplay is fun, the graphics are great and the story 
 is well told throughout the game. Never has an FPS been so fun and rewarding as Resistance: Fall 
 of man. The main campaign lasted me atleast 18 - 20 hours and many hours are still spent playing 
 the multiplayer which supports up to 40 players. If you have a PS3 and don't own this game. Go 
 buy it!, and i'll see you online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joesonhorses
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  on 7/22/07 i got a ps3 and bought resistance. i played it for like an hour and a half and fell 
 in love with it. this is the best ps3 game i have played so far. if you buy a ps3 your first game 
 should be resistance fall of man. this game is the one reason why you should have a ps3. if you 
 play this game for at least 10 minutes you are going to get addicted to it. the guns are amazing, 
 the alians (chimara) are cool, and the gameplay is awsome. this game will make you think about buying 
 a 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jared_Vegeta
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a first person shooter developed by Insomniac, the same company that 
 brought you the Ratchet and Clank series. Resistance takes place in an alternate reality during 
 the 1950s in which WWII never happened. Instead, an alien race known as the Chimera have invaded 
 Europe. Russia is the first to fall and pretty soon most of Europe is gone. The UK is the last 
 to fall and is pretty much where the game comes in. You play as Nathan Hale, a US soldier sent 
 over to Europe to help fight off the invasion of the Chimera. The only thing is that the Americans 
 have no idea what to expect upon arriving in the UK. The games single player will take you on a 
 decently lengthy campaign through various places throughout Europe. The locations range from tight 
 underground bunkers to snowy cities.
  The game play is fairly standard in Resistance. R1 is used to fire the weapons primary function 
 while L1 will launch the weapons secondary function. One of the unique aspects of the game is 
 the weapons themselves. There are six different weapons the first time through the campaign and 
 each of these weapons packs their own unique secondary function. The Auger is a gun that can shoot 
 though walls and its secondary function creates a temporary shield that blocks bullets. There is 
 also the standard sniper rifle that has the ability to slow time down when zoomed in for a limited 
 amount of time. There is the standard shot gun that has a more powerful alternate fire as well. 
 But the two guns that you will be primarily using are the Carbine and the Bullseye. The Carbine 
 is the standard infantry assault rifle that packs a grenade launcher on it. Its accurate and does 
 good damage and plenty of ammo is provided for it. The Bullseye is kind of like the Chimeras main 
 assault rifle. It shoots out plasma type bullets with a very high rate of fire. What is interesting, 
 and becomes extremely useful, is the Bullseyes secondary tagging ammunition. These allow you to 
 tag and enemy and then pretty much unleash as many shots as necessary that will track the enemy 
 down and mostly destroy them. At first, this concept may seem a bit lame because it sounds like 
 your putting no effort into killing the enemy. But when the bullets start flying, this comes in 
 handy being able to kill enemies while staying concealed behind cover. There are also a handful 
 of other weapons that arent used as much throughout the game. There is the rocket launcher that 
 you will really only want to use in certain situations and pretty neat Hailstorm gun that shoots 
 out needles that will ricochet off surfaces. But these guns certainly dont get as much use.
  There are quite a few different types of enemies that you face off against throughout the game. 
 However, the most standard are the standard Hybrids. Theyre usually always equipped with the Bullseye 
 and can be taken down with a few well placed shots. There are also some other almost generic type 
 Chimera that you will encounter, such as these face hugger type creatures, giant Chimera that wield 
 powerful rocket type launchers, and a few melee only class. There are also these worker type guys 
 that dont carry any guns, but will walk at you looking creepy and, if allowed to get close enough, 
 will jump on your face and start biting you. However, the problem with these guys is they will 
 literally walk at you until they are within a foot of you to make their attacks. So they really 
 pose no threat considering they hardly ever attack. And then there is my favorite of them all, 
 the Gray Daddy. This guys a long limbed, weaponless Chimera that will come running at you trying 
 to claw you. He is pretty creepy. Just something about them that make the scary. Overall, the Chimera 
 are a pretty awesome race that has their share of cool aliens which really makes fighting them 
 that much more fun.
  Lastly, the story of the game is told as a recap by a female British soldier who had a few encounters 
 with Hale. She recaps the story from her perspective which gives a pretty neat mysterious feel 
 to the story, considering she has to make guesses at what exactly Hale does when he went to these 
 different places. The story itself follows Hale as he tries to take down the Chimera singly handily. 
 After getting infected by the Chimera, he gains some of their attributes which allows him to rise 
 above the other soldiers. The plot is pretty standard defending off aliens plot, but it really 
 sets the game up to bring you to awesome locations. What is more interesting about the games plot 
 is the stuff that isnt mentioned in cut scenes, but rather is found in documents laying around 
 in levels. These documents reveal information about a secret organization that is enemies with 
 both humans and the Chimera. You dont really find out a whole lot about them, but you get little 
 hints and can feel that they will play a huge role in the games sequel, provided there is one. 
 You also pick up information about what exactly the Chimera are and how they work, which I found 
 to be really interesting. The story does seem to be missing a few plot details here and there, 
 but its not really that effective on the game fun factor. One last note is how Resistance looks 
 and sounds. All the weapons have a unique sound for both their primary and secondary fire. There 
 is also some really good voice acting throughout the game as well, hearing soldiers yelling stuff 
 on the battlefield is pretty cool and well done. Graphically, the game is pleasure to look at. 
 While they certainly wont blow you away, they do look nice and polished.
  Overall, Resistance: Fall of Man is a great first person shooter. From its somewhat tried and true 
 game play to its unique weapons and enemies, Resistance is a must for those PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DebitMann
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 22, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game Revolves around the idea of What If? It takes place during the 1940's during World War 
 2, and what a world war has it become. A mysterious life form called the Chimera have began to 
 take over cites and shortly Takes over all of Russia. You jump into the action as the Chimera begin 
 an attempt at Europe. Right off the bat, you can tell the weapons are unique, you are blessed with 
 an all purpose machine gun (Carbine) and soon come across the deadly, but not so accurate Bullseye (Chimeran 
 Standard Weapon) . This game plays well and looks great.
  
  Pros: Good Graphics for launch title, Great assortment of Weapons, as expected from insomniac (The 
 developers of Ratchet and Clank series) , Smart AI, Online Ranking system and award system, As you 
 upgrade in multiplayer online you can earn Certain add ons to customize your individual appearance, 
 the story is engaging and almost seems as if it happened in real life, Co-op storyline game play, 
 the Auger is awesome!
  
  Cons: it is just a launch title, Load times between chapters in a level are troublesome, not enough 
 free roam and makes you take a certain direction to get somewhere usually ending you up in the 
 middle of a 10 on 1 onslaught of yellow bullets, SIXAXIS almost plays no meaningful role, Machine 
 gun doesn't fire as fast as a machine gun should, You cannot choose which game you want to play 
 while online.
  
  Overall: This game is great and i am still playing it, online is really fun, as well as the Co-op 
 story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_FreaK
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 22, 2007 12:00 am PT
Review:  The best FPS I've ever played in my life. Made me appreciate the graffix in my own eyes. In 720p 
 it was amazing just that the floor was a bit shinny, well aliens always wax floors, lol. The action 
 is the best part. The sixaxis was used to smack opponents with the gun or shake them off, sixaxis 
 never got in the way of game play. Amazing weapons. You can find varities of human and alien weapons 
 in the battle field. The enemys were never too easy just right and the missions were crazy and 
 it had an amazing story line. I have to say this is one of PS3's Greatest Hits. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:02 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game even though it is probably one of the most generic sci-fi shooters i have 
 ever played. most of the weapons are unique and fun, and i like how each one can do 2 things. sure 
 there aren't any pistols, but trust me you wont miss them.
  in one player most of the time its kill all the enemies and get to the end... which ya can be lame, 
 but the ai and difficulty of the hybrids make it challenging and fun. plus there is an occasional 
 really big fat enemy that you have to kill that will probably get a woopin on you if you dont load 
 up on ammo and grenades. biggest thing for me is lack of good music or really any music. msot of 
 the time its quiet, and im big on music so that bothered me
  1 player mode: 8.5
  
  the online and multiplayer is what makes or breaks this game. and it makes it!
  i have never 
 played ANY pvp game that allows 40 ppl IN GAME at once without the slightest sign of lag on wi-fi. 
 i thought for sure the frame rate was gonna crap out and it was gonna just dc me after 5 min but 
 it was just like playing the real game against people. the one thing that sort of bothers me is 
 the amount of health you have, and no respawn invincability. in most games u cant just mow people 
 down with the machine gun unless your really good at aiming, but in this it is very easy too because 
 you and everyone else has so little health.
  it isnt like halo where u play to 7 or 15 kills, more like you play to about 60-100 kills, which 
 i found very unique, but it works because killing and dying is so much quicker than halo.
  online mode:9.5
  
  for an fps, very average. for an overall game, very fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  If youre looking for a reason to jump in and get wet with the Playstation 3, Resistance: Fall 
 of Man may be just what you need. With a year so packed to the gills with first-person shooters, 
 releasing one toward the end is a risky endeavor  you had better be prepared to convince a lot 
 of skeptics that your product is better than what theyre already playing. Luckily, Resistance 
 manages to do just that, providing a relatively lengthy and viscerally-charged single player campaign 
 along with a fast-paced and extremely entertaining multiplayer component. The fact that it also 
 looks and sounds terrific also gives the Playstation 3 hardware a chance to stretch its legs and 
 prove itself in a competitive market. Resistance ends up being a superb production from top to 
 bottom, and the few faults it does have are very forgivable in the midst of its sheer fun factor.
 
  
  During the games fifteen hour-or-so single player, youll take on the role of Nathan Hale, an 
 American soldier sent to aid the British in their last stand at London. However, in this early 
 twentieth century setting, you wont be fighting off the Nazis and Hitlers war machine. Resistance 
 plays off of its alternate history in which World War II never happened. Unfortunately, a race 
 of ugly, spider-like creatures known as The Chimera invade Earth, quickly sacking Russia and just 
 about all of Europe, and its up to you to set things right. Its an interesting bit of fiction 
 thats supplemented with some decent lore strewn across the length of the game. Its certainly 
 not as in-depth as it could be  especially when it comes to Hale, our hero, about whom we know 
 next to nothing by games end. Overall, its a job well done in regards to Resistances story.
 
  
  Youd probably assume that being humanitys last hope is a pretty tough gig. Youd assume correctly. 
 Its likely that youll die fast and hard in the beginning stretches of the game, especially since 
 your health regeneration system (take cover for a few seconds to recharge your health) doesnt 
 come into play until a bit later. The game presents itself as giving the player much more run-and-gun 
 action than other, more methodical games like Gears of War  and it does  but youll learn quickly 
 that playing lazy is tantamount to swift death. The Chimera are as tough as they are ugly, and 
 youll need to pump them full of lead real good before they finally kick the bucket. Theyre also 
 able to do just as much damage to you as you can to them, so youll need quick reflexes and situational 
 awareness (finding cover, using alternate routes to flank enemies) to champion Resistance, especially 
 during the final showdowns in the heart of London.
  
  Resistance is made by Insomniac Games, who are responsible for the Ratchet and Clank series. Conceptually 
 these two games couldnt be more different; however, one thing has made the transition to Resistance 
  off-the-wall weapon designs. You begin the game with a pretty basic assault rifle, complete with 
 grenade launcher attachment; but youll quickly run into some of the impressive Chimeran weaponry, 
 chief among them the Bullseye rifle. This weapon shoots bursts of energy that are, at first, largely 
 inaccurate; however, the alternate fire allows you to tag an enemy with a tracking device. All 
 subsequent shots from the Bullseye will home on this tracker, allowing you to do crazy stuff like 
 shoot around corners. Another Chimeran gun, the Auger, allows you to throw up shields that block 
 bullets and damage enemies that pass through. In addition to these more fantastical weapons are 
 the requisite shotguns, long-range rifles, et cetera.
  
  A lot of what you see in Resistance seems pretty unremarkable on paper; youll be engaging in a 
 number of pitches battles against the Chimera, typically resulting in some kind of new menace being 
 introduced to bookend any particularly spectacular fracas (although youll usually be fighting 
 the upright, humanoid Chimera known as the hybrids) . Youll occasionally jump into a vehicle and 
 bombard large groups of enemies with relative ease. However, with its unique setting and genuinely 
 exciting pace, Resistances campaign manages to offset a lot of its familiarity.
  
  Multiplayer doesnt quite differentiate itself as well as the single player does, though it still 
 manages to be an exciting and genuinely enjoyable addition to the game. You get some pretty basic 
 options like free-for-all, team death match, a meltdown mode in which youll need to capture 
 and defend point on a map, and other such options shooter fans will be familiar with. The big draw 
 of playing these modes inside of Resistance is that you can have up to 40 players in a single match; 
 and thankfully, lag doesnt seem to be much of an issue for most players.
  
  You can also choose whether to play as the human or the Chimerans during multiplayer. The differences 
 arent huge; humans are a bit faster and get to use radar, while Chimera soldiers can activate 
 an ability to deal more damage and see through walls. In the end, neither of the sides strengths 
 will make much of a difference in the tide of battle, since the game moves so fast online that 
 foresight of your enemies whereabouts isnt really required to play successfully.
  
  Online or off, Resistance has a great presentation that proves the Playstation 3 is a worthy contender 
 on the market. Although the artistry of the games visuals arent all that inspired, the game has 
 a crisp, detailed look that runs smoothly despite the cluttered, chaotic battles youll be indulging 
 in. The game has a very sepia-toned look to it that works with the wartime themes, as well. The 
 character designs of the Chimera are the keynote of the visuals; the creepy, spider-like features 
 and bump-mapped, slimy exteriors made them a memorable and menacing enemy.
  
  Audio is also great. With loud weapon fire, tons of desperate battle cries ringing throughout the 
 levels, and some good voice acting, the war feels alive and frantic. The orchestral score works 
 well too, though its not nearly as memorable as the rest of the audios performance.
  
  In short, Resistance: Fall of Man is definitely the type of game prospectors of the Playstation 
 3 will want to check out as soon as they can. Although the first thing you notice about the game 
 will be its terrific, crisp visuals and booming audio, its the frenetic, well-paced gunplay that 
 will hook you and keep you coming back. Even after finishing the games challenging single-player, 
 its forty-man multiplayer component awaits you to keep the fun coming. This is certainly one of 
 the best reasons to own Sonys new system thus far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TomN0
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 21, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  This is my first proper review so if its crap u know why lol. You might think that Resistance fall 
 of man is just another 1st person shooter. However Its 40 player online and gripping storyline 
 makes this game, in my eyes, stand out from every other 1st person out there. Story- The story 
 is basically that a group of aliens, called the chimera, come from nowhere and took over all of 
 europe. You are an american Nathen Hail who has come over, with the american army, to help the British 
 try to stop the chimera. Throughout the story you find more and more about the alien cretures and 
 leaves you with with a puzzling story. Online- This is where the game really shines. Upto 40 ppl 
 on one map, which is apsolutely crazy but nethertheless fun. Itsalso has its own kind of achevments 
 well medals in fact andare quite fun to earn. You go up in rank the more you play and unlock skins 
 and other bits as you do. There are 2 kinds of games to enter Ranked and custom. Obviously the 
 ranked matches are to increse your rank and the custom matches are well custom. Then out of them 
 there are other game types from your orignal Deathmatch and Team deathmatch to the games unique 
 modes such as Breach and Assult. In breach you battle through your enemys base and destroy these 
 power condures. With next gen graphic and amazing soundsthis game is a must have for Ps3 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mountain_duwe
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  The campaign is engaging, the story is interesting and there's a chance for sequels. Chimera are 
 a great enemy and something that should be hailed more often than not. WWII era + alien lifeforms/monsters 
 = great fun all the time.
  
  The gameplay is like any other great FPS, nothing revolutionary. Online play is fun, entertaining 
 and exciting.
  
  Nathan Hale = solid main character.
  
  Replayability is through the roof with multiplayer fun and recent and future map packs.
  
  
 Overall, a very good game, and an awesome launch title. Would love to see sequels in the future 
 and advancements made, would love to see Insomniac take more advantage of the PS3's hardware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GIJesse77
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  I do a real crisp and detailed review of this game so If you would like to know very exact details, 
 please read on. If not, sorry you spent the time to load this page.
  
  This game takes place back in the 50's, mainly just the year of 51 since it spans over a week, 
 and the world has skipped World War 2 because of some outer planetary virus has come in at Russia 
 and has spread all over Europe. You play this Character Nathan Hale who is sent from America to 
 help battle the virus in Britain. Later on, the character will learn that the virus is called the 
 Chimera and spread the virus by taking humans through a method of releasing a bunch of bugs to 
 infect them and turning them into Chimeran at conversion centers. The plot is good and background 
 to what has happened is told mainly through Intel Dossiers you pickup throughout the game which 
 will give insights told by soldiers battling the chimera or maps of chimeran installations and 
 such. The plot doesn't stay static, it will twist and turn and surprise, though, most happens not 
 while ingame but through the narration of this British woman that Hale meets in which whom she 
 grows a lot of interest into. They did leave some open areas of mystery as you will encounter strangely 
 uniformed soldiers and such. One question to Hale's past develops right at the beginning when he 
 picks up a picture of someone and looks emotionally into it. Now that I have told you the plot, 
 let me tell you about the rest of the game. First off, the graphics. The graphics in the game, 
 and I'm sure of, do not represent the total processing power of the PS3, don't get mistaken. The 
 graphics seem to be basic with no special lighting techniques or graphical processors, just painted 
 textures and regular models. It feels like a PS2 game with some Direct X 9 crap thrown in here 
 and there. One thing that puzzles me about the graphics is that in some levels when you turn on 
 your flashlight, it just lights things up and in others, it casts shadows from objects, mainly 
 in the indoor levels. When you do play the levels where the flashlight casts shadows, the game 
 looks real good because they are real detailed and softened. Thats about the only special graphical 
 thing in the game. This game is definantley not the best graphics game around , but is one of the 
 most funnest. This game is fun! Its a blast from the beginning, all the way to the end. The mood 
 of the gameplay changes a lot too like once you will be battling a big unit of chimeran in these 
 large open areas, the next you will be flying through the dark halls of an overtaken base. Its 
 also very long in which it took me a couple days to beat. When you beat it, it feels like you've 
 been through a lot. The mechanics are simple and good. You shoot, duck, cover and jump. Your basic 
 and good FPS controls which make it simple and easy to play. What mostly defines the actions is 
 the guns you get to wield. They are fun too! You get the basic machine gun that fires grenades, 
 shotgun that double blasts, Flame thrower which can also charge up a blast, rocket launcher, and 
 sniper rifle which can slow down time. Then you got the crazy guns in which one that can shoot 
 through walls and make a cover barrier, one that tags enemies and fires all the bullets at them, 
 and another can lay out mines that you can detonate. There are also more that have different functions. 
 Its good because the way the guns are held in your inventory is that you pick them up and hold 
 onto them forever. You get about, lets say, 12 different guns at once. I can tell you though now, 
 the ones you mostly will be using is the machine gun, the shotgun, and the bullseye. You will find 
 yourself using these as a combination in battles. You can use the machine gun for targets far away, 
 then when they are in plain sight, use the bullseye to tag and kill them, then when they are right 
 next to you, pull the shotgun out and blast them in one shot (or two) . This game just keeps this 
 going and going and never seems to get old. One complaint I have though is that most of the guns 
 shoot with projectiles so they will travel slower than real bullets. This is the reason why you 
 will be using the Machine gun a lot since the bullets travel the fastest than any of the other 
 guns ( excluding the Sniper) . The sniper in this game is different from others. The alternative 
 fire ion it can slow down time to allow you more time to get an accurate shot. Another complaint 
 I have is that you don't get a lot of ammo for all the guns. This will cause you to develop strategies 
 and combinations in switching through all the guns for various situations. The health done in the 
 game is a bit new. You get 4 bars that at the beginning of the game, they just empty upon harm. 
 Later on you will get slightly infected in which you will be able to regenerate a bar if there 
 is a fraction of it gone. If a bar empties, it stays empty unless you can find some health that 
 fills just on bar back up. There are a lot of different enemies in this game and most of them require 
 bullet hosing. The most simplest of the enemies, the Hybrid, requires a lot of hits to take down. 
 I guess its good that I tell you that to never slow down your firing, just keep shooting and unloading 
 bullets. Anyways, the enemies in the game change size a lot too. I don't remember the names of 
 them but there is One that reminds me of a tall and skinny basket ball player in which they run 
 at you and melee attack. Then there are these really small ones that come in swarms kind of like 
 the flood in Halo. However difficult the enemies are, you will definantley notice the number of 
 onscreen enemies. There are lots of them and it gets difficult because they are also hard to kill. 
 I could count about 20 onscreen and there still be more behind me or somewhere else. This is a 
 real co-op playable game since it will require a buddy to help you out with some of the levels 
 on the harder difficulty. The AI of the Enemies varies on what they can do. For the little ones, 
 they simply run at you and bite you, but for the human like hybrids, they will take cover and flank 
 you and such. They aren't too smart but neither too dumb. Like I said, just simple and good. To 
 describe your allies, in which you will also get a lot of too, they are much like the marines in 
 Halo, down to just they way they move. They shout orders to each other, they will make comments 
 about the situation, and they will maneuver and take cover and such, a little like the enemies 
 but only more humanly fluent. The controls are nice and solid. The analog is real sensitive and 
 will move fast and slick like a mouse for a PC game. Aiming is pretty easy and solid, though, sometimes 
 when trying to accurately focus on a faraway enemy, you will tend slide to the left or right too 
 far sometimes. The pace is fast and moving, again, kind of like Halo. Thats just a thing, it feels 
 like halo. If you 've played Halo, this game doesn't feel too different. Even the frame rate runs 
 on the same as Halo. What I'm saying is that the shooting action and feeling you get from playing 
 a game like Halo, or even Call of duty, you get that same feeling in this game. This game is just 
 your average, fun, solid, simple FPS that doesn't do anything too special ,other than the amazing 
 arsenal of weapons you get, or do anything too complicated. A problem with the graphics in hoping 
 that I would get the most out of PS3, though, gameplay majorly makes up for that. I'm really impressed 
 that this was a launch game and it sets a bright future for the PS3. Hope the review was good enough 
 to answer any of your doubts. Get the game, it will keep you busy for a long time.
  
  BTW, I can tell you right now that judging by the ending, there is most definantley going to be 
 a sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crystalmethod
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 11:26 pm PT
Review:  I came into the PS3 world looking for an ultimate app for launch and through the hype I decided 
 to buy Resistance. It's an ok game, but it wasn't even good enough to let me want to play through 
 the whole thing.
  
  Resistance initially starts off fun, but then as you play through the levels; each one becomes 
 more and more boring in my opinion and eventually I really didn't see the point of getting to the 
 end. The story is pretty mediocre; an alien invasion comes down onto Earth; wow is all i can sarcasticly. 
 It's really generic and quite tiring for that matter shooting the same enemies again and again; 
 there isn't all that much variation. So that's basically the single-player game; it's a good shooter 
 for the time you can hold out with it but by far it's not the best game you would have played all 
 year.
  
  The online is the only thing that suggests to me that I haven't wasted all my money on resistance. 
 It kept me occupied for hours and I'm still playing it today; however only because there aren't 
 any other decent FPS online games on the ps3 yet; so you could say I'm just playing it for the 
 sake of it. But it does have a pretty decent online.
  
  As you can see, I'm not very enthusiastic about Resistance; and it's pretty hard to write a review 
 for something that's not all that brilliant... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pointer99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 20, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Resistance=Awesome
  
  A game set in 1941= seen that before, played that before
  A game with aliens= seen that before, played that before
  A game set in 1941 with aliens and 
 amazing guns= never seen before EVER
  
  Single player
  The single player mode has 9 different sections and over 25 levels.
  The weapons in the game 
 are genius. Theres your standard carbine and frag grenade but then theres the chimera and cloven 
 weapons. Im saying nothing about this u will just have to buy the game and find out.
  
  Multi player
  When playing online there is 2 different types of games u can play. Ranked or custom 
 games. Ranked games are normal timed games with only a cerain amount of ammo. Custom games are 
 games created by other players. These games can be modified by putting only sniper rifles or unlimited 
 ammo. There are also 60 different ranks online.
  buy this game!!!!!
  challenge me to a game online at 'rocket747'
  if u have any questions on resistance email me 
 at 'connor_747@hotmail. co. uk' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boy_Man07
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:49 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great game, with great graphics and great weapons. It features many 
 detailed weapons, believable environments, beautiful explosions and amazing battles. There are 
 some problems, though. The main character, Nathan Hale... well, you don't get to know much things 
 about him and his personality. Furthermore, there are some cool enemies, but most of the time, 
 you'll fight against the same enemy (the basic alien with a basic weapon) ; so, the game may get 
 a bit boring and repetitive after some time. The story is O. K. for a first person shooter. The 
 Chimera are killing everybody in the planet and you need to fight against the Chimera and try to 
 save the planet. In the beginning of the game, you are told that you're the only survivor of the 
 battle in Europe. In the middle of the game, you ask yourself how you're the only survivor and 
 how the Chimera dominated Europe... see, you alone kill thousands and thousands of Chimera. Whatever, 
 this is the thing: you have to kill the Chimera to save the world and the humans. That's it. You'll 
 discover more things about the Chimera and their invasion, but almost nothing more.
  
  Graphics: amazing! it's so good to break a window and to see something exploding...
  Sound: great!
 
  Gameplay: it's the usual gameplay of the best first person shooter games... what is not a bad thing! 
 Resistance: Fall of Man delivers an incredible feeling. It's so good to kill those bastards... and 
 the weapons you use throughout the game are also great! A great shooter, just on the Playstation 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 9:23 am PT
Review:  1st person shooters are not my favorate type of game but i decided to try this out anyways since 
 it got such good reviews and overall i was a bit disappointed. It played like your typical shooter 
 but i found it was too repetitive. It seemed like the same bad guys were coming at you all the 
 time and there were not enough boss fights. The graphics and sound were great. Even though i have 
 not quite yet finished the game, i found it to be short. Ive been playing this with a friend in 
 two player mode and once we beat it, i probably wouldn't pick it up again. If you're into 1st person 
 shooters id recommend it but if you havent got it already, wait for a price drop or buy it used. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seebeeman
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 19, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  this game is awesome and i will tell you why i think its great
  
  Gameplay:9 of 10
  the reason i gave the gameplay a 9 is because the gameplay is way better than i thought it would 
 be. there are 8 different weapons to choose from which range from the light machine gun the bullseye 
 to the larrkk which is a bazooka. the story mode could have been a bit longer but besides that the 
 gameplay rocks.
  
  Graphics: 10 of 10
  The graphics are the highlight of this game, they must have put a ton of work into the graphics 
 because your enemies look extremely realistic.
  
  Sound: 9 of 10
  The sound in this game is superb. From the sounds of the guns to the sounds that come out of your 
 enemies.
  
  Value: 9 of 10
  This game is worth 69.99 because it is a great game and i would have even payed 10 more dollars 
 if that had been the price.
  
  Tilt: 9 of 10
  The tilt in this game is good. the frame rate doesn't screw up even when your in a huge battle.
 
  
  All in all this game is worth 69.99 and even worth getting a ps3 over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: webproserv
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2007 5:31 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man (RFOM) is a title that launched with the PS3 back in November of 2006 and 
 is still the only great title out for the PS3. The graphics are not as sharp as they were on Perfect 
 Dark: Zero when it launched with the 360 in November of 2005 but I must say this is a great start 
 for the PS3 as Perfect Dark was for the 360. The Gameplay is absolutly frantic, there really is 
 never a dull moment in the game. It will keep you coming back time and time again. The multiplayer 
 sports 40 players online which is large considering that the most the 360 handles is 32 with Call 
 of Duty 3 and then again Call of Duty 3 for the PS3 only supports 24 players online, hmmm. Anyway 
 the multiplayer is great fun so if your a fan of multiplayer FPS's then this is your game and only 
 game for the PS3 to enjoy. This is a complete package you get a great single player experience 
 and a very fun multiplayer that will have you playing this game over and over again. http://GameWired. spaces. live. com 
 Review by: Paul Megara GameWired. spaces. live. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaGlide
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 19, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is probably considered the most own title when owning a playstation 3 and 
 I played and it is, The game runs smoothly throughout the game and the story is about your this 
 dude army guy who's a complete savage in fighting against this new type of enemy called the Chimera. 
 Its really cool looking at the different settings like Manchester b/c the game takes place in England 
 and you travel all over in a 4 day period to make a Final Stand. The shooting controls feel right 
 at home once you begin to play. The innovative use is unique b/c when an enemy grabs you, you have 
 to shake the controllers to whack them off which is tight. The enemys are annoying cuz there hella 
 smart and they never miss a shot but it just adds a challenge. The variety is good. My favorite 
 thing is the weapon selection. The game uses new ideas like a gun that shoots through cover and 
 also shoots a shield to protect you. The story is really awesome.
  
  The online play is phenominal. Thers two races when you play ranked . One is the chimera that has 
 its own abilities like rage mode. The humans also have an advantage with their abilities b/c they 
 have a more complexed radar systems.
  
  Anyway the games is like Halo but for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zantam03
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jul 17, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  Awesome - that's how I described the game after seeing the first screen shots and hearing the first 
 bits of information since it's E3 debut some years ago.
  
  Not worth 60,- - is how I would probably describe the game right now.
  
  Why?
  
  Looking 
 at the screen shots and reading all sorts of official information being released prior to the release 
 of the game I expected a very story based offline mode. However, for some reason the game just 
 feels rushed and it plays that way too. The story mode is being told by one of the main characters 
 in a way as if it already happened, therefore it's lacking details.
  
  Another thing that disappointed me were the missions itself. Shooting and killing Chimera is all 
 you do, not even something simple like looking for a key to unlock a certain door, no, just shooting, 
 shooting and shooting, which isn't even much of a challenge when getting accustomed to the game.
 
  
  The best part of the game has to be the online part, however, this too is far from flawless.
 
  
  The online mode consists of 2 different classed type of matches; ranked matches and unranked matches. 
 If you want to rank up you'll have to play ranked matches. If you just want to play for fun you 
 can play unranked matches.
  
  I'll continue reviewing the online mode using 'ranked matches' because of being able to rank up 
 there and it's basically what the online part of the game is made for.
  
  When you will want to play a ranked match you'll notice you can't select a map. The map will be 
 selected for you, so if you want to play your favorite map, you'll just have to be lucky. On the 
 other hand, you can select what kind of game mode you would like to play, well, kind of. You can 
 select to play alone (the game will then select a Deathmatch or Survivor game mode) . Furthermore 
 you can select to play a TDM or a Team Mission (the game will select a Capture the Flag game, a 
 Meltdown game or Breach game for you)
  
  Another thing I didn't like was the skill required to play this game. Which is none. All you need 
 to know is the map. Being good at aiming isn't all that important, because of a couple of things:
 
  
  1&gt; The weapons - rocket launchers, shotguns, 50mm frags are very easy to use and don't require 
 any skill in terms of aiming.
  
  2&gt; Chimera can look through walls - yep, the chimera can look through walls, meaning they can 
 spot humans when they are about to run around the corner. Simply select the shotgun and when they 
 run around the corner *boom* a free kill. Humans do have the ability to spot the Chimera on the 
 map, when they are close, but it doesn't work as easy as just looking through the wall.
  
  3&gt; The Bullseye - the standard Chimera weapon. In close combat it's easy to use because of the 
 bullets not going very accurate towards it's target. From far away you'll just have to press L1 
 to lock on to a target, when this is done the game will aim for you, no further skill is required.
 
  
  On the other hand, I did like the sniper. Sniping battles are fun. The game is also very tactical, 
 because of the big maps. Good players dont win you a clanwar, but good tactics do. Overall, I'd 
 say this game is for everyone who likes 3D shooters. Age doesn't really matter, as does skill. 
 You'll always find a gun to your liking. The only players that probably won't like the game that 
 much are the serious online gamers, people who want to accomplish many things on a game, including 
 being one of the best. Rocket Launchers, Shotguns, The Bullseye and 50mm frags are probably the 
 most used weapons, and no matter how good you are, even the worst players can kill you with these 
 very frequently used weapons. Wait for a price drop so you can buy it for 20 or 30, but I recommend 
 you stay away from it while it's still 60,- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillzdatkill
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 4:23 am PT
Review:  well the online is just awsome because you can play up to 40 people in a room and the online is 
 very smooth and intense. In story mode the characters don't have any emotions or feelings. Although 
 the game was pretty fun, i think it could have been better. Overall i think people should get this 
 game because the will never get bored of the multiplayer online for good. l l l l l l l l l l l 
 l l l l l l ll l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l l 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karpediiem
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Needs to have a more in depth storyline that people can get lost in. They need to build on the 
 details of the graphics, build on the sound, and create a strategic form of fighting that each 
 player could adapt to in thier own individual way. Thier is alot of potential in this game and 
 I would like to see some issues addressed in part 2, especially online co-op play. Each chimera 
 should have a certain weekpoint that should be taken advantage off whenever they are alone. There 
 should be diifferent chimeras that are loner fighters and wolf pack type fighters that could use 
 thier numbers to flank you. Thier should be stun grenade missions, that require some form of stealth, 
 if you kill a chimera they let out a screem that alerts the others, so you have to put them to 
 sleep or knock them out. There should be underwater missions, where there is a race of chimera 
 that can survive underwater. This game should have different angles so that it is not just point 
 and shoot on every level. They shoul also have puzzle missions, where you have to figure out what 
 the chimeras are up too. These puzzles should be random on different levels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gladmoring
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:17 pm PT
Review:  Ressistance was the first game I bought on my ps3 and it is still my favorite. With a solid length 
 campain and spectacular multiplayer, you will play for hours. Ressistance is a great value, has 
 great gameplay and is easily one of my most favorite games. Well done Insomniac! If you have a 
 ps3, then you should have this game, if you don't thenn whats wrong with you! If your still are 
 not sure of buy it the atleast rent it.
  If you hate FPS games then don't bother with this one. The bad is The characters in the storyline 
 could have been developed more and multiplayer can be overwhelming for beginner since to 40 player 
 online matched. There also could have been more themed-music throughout the campain.
  Overall- Well Done/amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Bomberman
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:05 am PT
Review:  Insomaniac's Resistance Fall Of Man was One of the PS3's first hits. It's an FPS game with good 
 looking graphics, cool weapons and it has a nice online multiplayer in it. But they did made some 
 minor and a few major mistakes.
  
  First of all the graphics of the game are pretty good, the maps look good, especially snow maps. 
 The textures are nice (except the fire which should have been improved a lot.) and the effects 
 look good. The weapons of the game are freaking awesome there is original weapons like machine 
 gun and sniper. There is four kinds of grenades which is cool. Then there is these strange weapons 
 like Sapper which shoots bubbles and Auger that shoots lasers that go through walls, which I think 
 is very cool 'cause it resembles me of the Ratchet and Clank series. In Resistance you can destroy 
 lot of environment, no you can&amp;#8217; t blow up houses or destroy anything that comes in your 
 way, but still there is plenty of things that you can destroy in this game, It could've been improved 
 a lot but it's fun. The Difficulty of the game is just right, even though Chimeras too often just 
 run to you like they just wanted to be killed, they can be very challenging. It's nearly impossible 
 to survive if you don't take cover sometimes. Of course Chimeras know to take cover sometimes too, 
 although even if the chimeras took cover you can just throw grenade at them and the problem is 
 solved 'cause Chimeras very and I mean very seldom dodge grenades which is stupid I mean come on 
 they are monsters that see through walls and run with awesome speed, but they can't dodge a grenade!? 
 What nonsense! Chimeras can be very though if you let them come near you I mean Chimera's melee 
 attacks are so freaking powerful! Even if you have full health after Chimera hits you with melee 
 attack you lose &frac34; of your health. Anyway it's hard to beat the game without dyeing a few 
 times and that's good, games must have some difficulty.
  There isn't many different enemies in the game, there isn't anything but chimeras of different 
 sizes and weapons, well that's okay 'cause this game is all about kick some chimera ass, but I 
 think they should have used a bit more imagination when they made the enemies.
  
  The story isn't the best thing in this game, game tells about the 2. world war. Russians accidentally 
 failed laboratory experiment and made Chimera. Chimeras started to conquer Europe little by little. 
 Soon Chimeras conquered Europe, except UK which chimera couldn't conquer so easily but it wouldn't 
 take long before Chimera took over UK ass well. So the English ask help from... AMERICA! what a 
 surprise I know. So American soldiers came to help. One of the soldiers was Nathan Hale who is 
 the main character of the game. Okay im not going to tell story further'cause I get tired telling 
 you about **** story and I might accidentally give spoilers. Anyway they should have improved the 
 story.
  
  Playing in online is awesome, one game can even have 40 players in it and thanks to the latest 
 update online game is now global so you can go and challenge people from all over the world, even 
 from Japan which I don't recommend &amp;#8216; cause Japanese will kick your ass. But there is one 
 very big problem in the online game! Where is the music!? Yeah that's right there is no music in 
 the online game, they had music in campaign mode so why didn't they put music in the online game! 
 Okay there isn't much music in this game and the music of the game is pretty bad if you think about 
 it, but still there weren't any reason to not to put music there. What were they thinking!? I mean 
 it's tedious to play when there is no music. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCrazy22r
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 15, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  Was and still is the good way that sony started off thier ps3 Franchise, 100x better than the xbox 
 launch games GO SONY! I got lucky on my ps3 because i got it on the first launch and let me tell 
 you it was pretty cool story but maybe another time. I bought Resistance along with Fightnight 
 3 and Resistance is a kick ass game, and like i said compared to the xbox launch titles you know 
 who #1 is. Resistance is an all around shooter with all the elements into 1. Game play is fun going 
 through mobs of aliens watching their blood/goo splatter is great. The online play is fun too. 
 Theirs brawls were theirs 40 players and its everyone for themselves its insane. Theirs other modes 
 as well. The graphics are good not the best of course but with that start i cant imagine what later 
 games will look like :) The sound is alright they could of added more KABOOOMS! More gore and carnage 
 what the players want. Over all its a good shooting game and if you like shooters and you have 
 a ps3 look no further you wont be disappointed till other ones come out but you will probably be 
 playing online most of the time than the actual campaign mode. I seen a lot of players online who 
 have not even started campaign and just playing online. SO HAVE FUN AND KILL SOME PEEPS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dentui
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 15, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  The fact that there is a ranking system and you can join any game that is playing and that supports 
 40 players online just makes it the tip of the iceberg. there are a lot of ways you can have fun 
 in this game but the fact that it does not support online Co-Op takes some ratings of this very 
 well developed game. but over all i got to admit this game is amazing and people that are giving 
 it low scores i can see they have not played. to bad for them because they are missing out on a 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arcanum
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Everything about Resistance: Fall of Man has a polished feel to it, from the actual game play, 
 to the game menus. It all flows and seems to fit nicely together. While the story isn't too deep, 
 it does a nice job of leading you through the missions and leaves you wanting more. Resistance 
 has a slight horror feel to it that I liked a lot, and on more than one occasion I was startled 
 as I played. Resistance is a great FPS for the Playstation 3!
  
  Gameplay: The Sixaxis control setup is well thought out and does not take long to get used to. 
 Occasionally you will be able to use one of its advanced features (shaking) , which is cool. The 
 levels / missions are well laid out and varied. On the easy setting (which I just completed) there 
 was plenty of stuff available for you to pick up. There is a decent amount of varied foes for you 
 to take out and the artificial intelligence for the most part is very good. Several nice and unexpected 
 twists add to the overall game play.
  
  Graphics: The game is rendered very very nicely. Even on my 35 SD TV the game looks GREAT. Again, 
 polished comes to mind, all the levels / missions have nice graphics; everything in the game looks 
 good. When you shoot at a window, it gets a bullet hole and cracks the glass, if you shoot it again, 
 the window will shatter. See a car.... shoot it, blow out the windows, then shoot at the gas tank 
 and set the car ablaze, always nice when a foe is near! use your melee attack on a pool table and 
 the balls roll around. The visuals of your sniper rifle zoomed in at full and with your concentration 
 have a great effect as well. It all adds up to great graphics.
  
  Sound: The sound is well done in Resistance. The surround sound is great, and the weapon sounds 
 add a nice effect to the game. It's also nice that there is not a lot of music playing as you are 
 sneaking around / running on your mission. Some music is there, when it needs to be. Value: This 
 game has some replay ability for the single player campaign, for a couple of reasons. First I would 
 like to get more skill points, so that I can unlock more of the rewards. I was able to unlock the 
 first two rewards, which are concept art. The first being mostly uncolored pencil drawings, and 
 the second being much nicer color drawings, which I liked a lot. There are several more reward 
 levels, and I would like to see those! Another reason is a couple of locations such as Cheddar 
 Gorge, you drive a Jeep. That Jeep is so fun to drive; I can see myself going back to that mission, 
 just to jump the thing, lol. I have not played any of the multi-player, so nothing to say about 
 that aspect of Resistance.
  
  Tilt: I wanted to get this game in the 9 range, I think it deserves that! This game Rocks! If you 
 have a PS3 and like first person shooters then this is an excellent game to add to your collection! 
 I'd go so far as to say a must have for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Typhyn
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 14, 2007 8:57 am PT
Review:  I wasn't going to get Resistance: Fall of Man with my PS3 at launch, it was only when Oblivion 
 got delayed that I decided to purchase Resistance along side Motorstorm. I'm glad I did.
  
  Imagine World War 2 never happened, instead alien hybrid Chimera things burst out of Russia and 
 invaded Europe, you play as Nathan Hale, and American soldier trying to prevent the enemy completely 
 taking over Britain. Near the start of the story you find Hale is resistance to the Chimeran virus. 
 Don't be put of by the grim story, it is actually engaging and not as scary as it could be.
  
  The single player is great, the compelling story will likely keep you playing until the end. 
 Even on easy you'll probably struggle on you're first play through and as the game gets progressively 
 tougher towards the end you'll find yourself looking at the black and white death screen more often 
 than not, but the forgiving checkpoint system allows you to try again without getting -too- annoyed.
 
  
  The locations are sometimes brilliant, the first Manchester level that has you and a large number 
 of comrads charging down though the ruins of the city of Manchester, through hoards of Chimera 
 and onto the cathedral in the distance is and epic battle. It's the level that basically says look 
 what we can do with this . Good stuff. The locations loose the interest in the middle of the story, 
 generic tunnels and dark rooms, in which you're on your own, don't add anything new and exciting 
 but it picks up again when you reach the last nine or ten levels; after completing these going 
 back to the first levels again seem ridiculously easy.
  
  Once the main story is over, the game certainly isn't. You've got skill points to collect, unlocking 
 artwork, videos and online skins. To get these you must finish certain, unknown, objectives - kill 
 3 chimera with one grenade, or finish a level in under 4 minutes. There's also intel which is scattered 
 around levels and can be collected to fill in gaps in the immersive story. Then there's the weapons, 
 they're great first time though, a cross between alien and human technology; so you have the rifle 
 and shotgun, but also auger that shoots through walls and hailstorm that bounces of walls. These 
 are great first time through, but you find more on your second playthrough. It took me over a month 
 before I realised how use the rocket launcher to best effect.
  
  The graphics are good, the sound suitable and the gameplay solid. But what will keep you coming 
 back for more is the online mode. The occasional glitch is insignifgant when you're fighting a 
 40 player deathmatch, or going 20 vs 20 trying to take out the other teams nodes. This is complemented 
 nicely by the small 4 on 4 capture the flags, winning easily is fun and loosing quickly is annoying 
 but the best games are those that a close, lasting almost an hour for both rounds in team games 
 they can be a mix of patience and sheer luck that keeps it interesting.
  
  After a high number of round the online games may begin to get tiresome, but going for another 
 medal or the next rank will keep you coming back for more. Joining a good clan will also extend 
 the lifespan of the game, especially if they use headsets, as you work out tactics and ways of 
 winning, and slowly become better.
  
  As for downloadable content, currently there's only one new map pack available, it's a good map 
 but not enough people own them yet, there's rarely a game that uses the new maps to their full 
 size (40 players) which is a bit of a disappointment.
  
  If you've got a ps3 but don't yet have Resistance I would recommend getting it, it doesn't do anything 
 perfectly, but it does nothing wrong. I'll be getting the sequel and can't see me not playing this 
 game over the next few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrus151
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  a super start for the ps3... i was highly amazed from the start... the graphics are a solid game 
 for the ps3 and it gets you right in the mood for some action... you begin to start off with a pimp 
 soldier named hale... he is quite a man of mystery but what i like most and that he almost never 
 says anything... gives the whole story more of an appeal... and not to mention the sound fits right 
 in with the game giving you a faced pace to the killing scenes.... when ur fighting 5 of the aliens 
 and you head shooting them all with the battle rifle it makes a great appeal to most gamers... the 
 game is packed with a deep story and is one i would reccomend not missing.... if you buy a ps3 and 
 are new to it... start out with this one cause it gets you in the mood for some serious hours of 
 fun gameplay.... we reppin thetas, thetas, thetas, sergerent hale would say! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 13, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  After holding out, I finally picked up a PS3 and with it, my first game for it, Resistance Fall 
 of Man. After hearing so many good things about it, it was time to check it out for myself.
  
  My first impression of the game was, wow, the graphics look great . There is a great amount 
 of detail paid to most objects in the game. The character models and weapons receive the most amount 
 of detail. When viewing a dead Chimeran close-up, the detail of their faces, clothes, cooling packs, 
 all of it looks outstanding. The environments look great overall also, although some places and 
 things look run-of-the-mill and repetitive.
  
  The sound is great throughout the game. There are some very good atmospheric sounds that will give 
 you chills, and the music in intense musics keeps it intense. Sound effects sound great and accurate.
 
  
  The story is another point in the game that stands out. Not only is Resistance a great FPS, but 
 it has a very good story to accompany it. You see pretty early where the story is going to lead, 
 but there's some nice twists along the way. Here's the part I was worried about... Multi-player. 
 After having played Halo 2 and using this as a multi-player comparison, I wasn't sure how RFOM 
 would stack up. Fortunately I was more than impressed. The game supports up to 40 player deathmatches, 
 along with quite a few different and expansive maps. The online works great and I have not experienced 
 any lag with people-packed matches. The online community is pretty large and I've never run into 
 a problem finding enough people for a match. I really like RFOM's stat tracker. As you play ranked 
 matches, the game will award you medals for certain things you do such as multiple kills, grenade 
 kills, headshots, melee kills, etc. All of this is tracked in your character profile. Accuracy, 
 best/worst weapon, deaths, kills, all of this is also tracked and is a pretty cool indication of 
 how you've been playing or improving.
  
  Overall, I really don't have any gripes with Resistance other than some areas looking a little 
 plain. Everything in the game is executed exceptionally well and should keep you entertained well 
 after the single-player campaign with how good the online feature is. If you own a PS3 I would 
 highly recommend buying this one. If you don't own a PS3, this one is a reason to buy one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sora250
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  With the ps3 launch last November, we got Resistance: Fall of Man which is the best ps3 out right 
 now but can this compare to other first person shooter like the godly halo, lets find out.
  
  Story: You are Nathan Hale, a U. S army ranger, in a world where the world did not experience 
 World War II, the Great Depression, or the rise of Communism in Russia. your mission is to defeat 
 a race called the Chimera before they take over the world with their own race. The story from start 
 to finish will make you want to find out what next with a great ending but I won't say what happens. 
 It feels very different from your run of the mill WW2 shooter which give this section an eight.
 
  
  Graphics For the next gen system, Resistance Fall of man is great. The pictures are clear and give 
 out a lot of detail which allows you to see everything. It will give you the feeling like if you 
 were really there with Nathan hale but there one problem, the game does not give out full 1080 
 P HD support and only goes up to 720 P which is kind of a let down but still worth looking at even 
 if it does not have 1080 P
  
  Sound The Voice acting is great. They sound like they are in a war with no proof that they are 
 going to live to see the end. When there is music, it get you into the game which is great. Nothing 
 really goes wrong in this section
  
  game play This is the best part of Resistance: Fall of man. The main of this game is single player 
 mode which takes you though the story of Nathan hale as he fights to save the world. You start 
 off with only 1 weapon but as you progress thought the game, you get a lot more weapons to use 
 against the Chimera along with getting skills points for doing different things to unlock items. 
 You can also use your hands to attack them but that no fun right? For multi player, you have three 
 different options. First, you can play co op mode with a friend, second player being another guy 
 not important to the story. This mode is really underrated and not seen in most games but this 
 mode can be really fun if you don't have a friend that sucks at the game. Your second option is 
 a normal death match up to four players. It just the normal who score highest wins. Your last option 
 is to play the robust on line mode. With up to 40 players, you can play in ranked or non ranked 
 matches to see who is the best. As you play ranked matches, the game keep track of everything you 
 did on line and with this, you can get on line medals which people will see when they look at your 
 profile. Along with this, you level up which can get you new items. With over 6 game play modes 
 from death match to bleach, there a lot of different things to do on line. Overall here, the game 
 play is one of the best if not the best in a ps3 game.
  
  In the end: If you have a ps3 and want the best game on it, then Resistance Fall of man is the 
 best choice but if you are not into first person shooter than rent it but this is a great ps3 game 
 that should not be overlooked.
  
  overall score: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 7.4
Date: Jul 12, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a game that borrows very heavily from other games such as gears of war, resident 
 evil, halflife, etc...
  
  The graphics in this game is good but there are some things that you can spot that looks like last 
 gen. graphics. However, its not bad for a opening title of the ps3. The gameplay is the same as 
 any FPS out there in the gaming world. Nothing different, but it is weird how a game that is set 
 in the 1950s can have such advanced technology in weaponry and machinery. *Weird* The sounds in 
 the game are great. Gunfire is convincing and voice acting is good. Multiplayer isn't that great 
 and seems a little bland and dull. Online is typical. Overall, this game is worth your money but 
 it wouldn't hurt to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 11, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of shooters except for Call of Duty and old-school Medal of Honor. But I will 
 admit that the WWII shooter genre is a little overcrowded. That being said, Resistance is a WWII-ish 
 shooter, and does a great job of bringing something new to the table. The game is, essentially, 
 an H. G. Wells' War of the Worlds scenario (like the book, not the Tom Cruise movie) . Set several 
 years after the end of WWII, aliens have invaded and couquered all of Europe save for Britain through 
 the use of a virus that infects humans and mutates them into alien soldiers, and you are an American 
 soldier who just so happens to have an innate resistance to the virus (hence, the title) and instead 
 find that it has granted you enhanced abilities. OK, so the setup is kinda far-fetched and a little 
 cliche, but still falls into the cool category. One of the highlights of the game is the weapons. 
 It seems that the developers did a great job of making sure that each weapon in the game felt unique 
 and had a very specific set of useful applications. Each gun had a primary fire and a secondary 
 ability, so that just about every imaginable type of weapon was implemented in some way. Weapon 
 abilities ranged from having the simple U. S. assault rifle with a standard granade launcher, to 
 the alien's scatter-shooting rifle with a homing 'tag' feature, to a sniper rifle that could slow 
 down time (due to your character's enhanced reflexes and senses) , to a gun that could shoot through 
 walls gaining power with each obstacle it passes through until hitting a 'soft' target, to a heavy 
 machine gun with bullets that bounced off walls and could fire an 'auto turrett' that was extremely 
 useful for quickly clearing out enclosed rooms of virtually any size or shape. Grenades, however, 
 felt extremely ineffective (except for the really cool hedgehog grenades) and were almost pointless 
 to use.
  
  What really sets this game apart, however, is how immersive the story and gameplay actually are. 
 Action is generally pretty fast, but broken up with segments of little-to-no action. And these 
 slower segments do an excellent job of creating tension in ways that most FPS games just can't 
 do very well. Some parts of the game reminded me a lot of Doom 3, and other parts reminded me of 
 Silent Hill and Resident Evil.
  
  Since the enemies are aliens with extraordinary healing abilities, you should expect to have to 
 unload a lot of ammo into them, and some times, headshots don't even seem to be effective in taking 
 them down. Which is really irritating and feels like a cheap way to make the game a bit harder 
 than it needs to be. Boss battles are pretty cool (if you can call them boss battles) in that they 
 are usually fairly tactical encounters that require you to attack the boss's weak spot relatively 
 few times to destroy it. This is quite a relief from the typical boss fights that are just very 
 large, obscenely powerful monsters that you just have to unload tons of ammo into it to kill it.
 
  
  The co-op multiplayer mode is also really dissapointing since the whole story was written for a 
 single player, and the addition of the second player is completely unnaccounted for in the narrative 
 and thus feels very tacked on and akward. Multiplayer is fun, but with a little more work and some 
 rewrites to the story narrative and cutscenes, it could have been really cool.
  
  ! -- Spoilers Here -- !
  I also thought the ending of the game was kind of neat, in that there 
 is NO final boss. Instead, you have to shoot several small tubes in the alien's central reactor 
 core, which is defended by a whole legion of enemy troops. I thought this was cool, since it made 
 sense, and spares the player from having to sit through some stupid boss fight that just requires 
 to to shoot the boss several dozen times with a rocket launcher.
  ! -- End Spoilers -- !
  
  Overall, the game is very good, and I highly recommend it to anybody who owns a PS3, especially 
 if you enjoy shooters or any games that generate suspense. This one will definitely get the adrenaline 
 pumping! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wlgtiby67
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 10, 2007 12:32 am PT
Review:  I'm guessing everyone has played through a few first person shooters by now and probably aren't 
 too enticed about another. And as odd as it may sound to combine a WWII game with aliens, it surprisingly 
 turns out pretty well. The story mode takes a good ten or so hours depending on the difficulty 
 and keeps you intrigued enough to continue through all of it. It changes the enemies up just enough 
 but by the time you finish through all of it you have to wonder what the heck you were shooting 
 at half of the time. Maybe a few more variations in enemies would have been a nicer touch but perhaps 
 keeping them similar keeps the game together more so as an enemy race. There is however a nice 
 transition to a halo effect with vehicles except don't get too worked up when there's a lack there 
 of in multi-player. The controls are a typical console shooter for the most part. Weapons don't 
 disappoint either but get used to them because after awhile there won't be any new ones to look 
 forward to. If you haven't seen the game and its graphics know that you won't be let down. Don't 
 expect any breath taking visuals however; wait for those games later this year but Resistance is 
 a good step for anyone transitioning from those antique PS2's. It's going to run you a hefty $60 
 but it's one of the only good games on the PS3 so far. You should get your money's worth as the 
 multi-player will keep you going after you dry tired of the story and the little replay value it 
 has. If you have a PS3 and don't own this game, you should. There are few things wrong with this 
 game making it a clear buy if you own a PS3 or are thinking of owning one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndru01
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 9, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the closest that PS3 will probably come to Halo until Haze appears. R: FoM tries to be a 
 hybrid between Halo, WW2 FPSs and a bit of Gears of War thrown in. In some R: FoM areas it does 
 very well. It has smart foes, very nice graphics and a good offline cooperative multiplayer mode. 
 Some of the weapons have been done many times in other FPS games (sniper rifle, machine gun, grenades, 
 etc) , but R: FoM has some very interesting new ones (eg Bullseye, Sapper, Hailstorm, Auger, Fuel-Air 
 grenade) . There are some nice vehicles, too, but I wish there were more - especially the tank! 
 The online multi playermode is good, too (and free to play in Australia courtesy of Sony) . Unfortunately, 
 the story line is unoriginal and almost completely incidental to the game play. In fact, some of 
 the cut scenes early in the game break up the tension too much and I found myself skipping through 
 most of them. Half-Life did a much better job of integrating gameplay and story line. Annoyingly, 
 there is no lean function and the crouch function is only activated by holding down the L2 button, 
 which gets annoying. The crouch should have been a toggle like was available in Gun. I think the 
 designers attempted to create a game that cherrypicked the best elements of current generation 
 FPS without adding a lot to the genre. I think that R: FoM will probably be remembered for its new 
 weapons, graphics and multiplayer modes but also for the sin of being derivative in a game genre 
 that is at risk of becoming stale.
  
  Overall, I think that R: FoM is worth purchasing by early adopters of the PS3 who are looking to 
 stretch some of its capabilities with a FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coldfusion123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  The game in my opinion is one of ps3 best so far it has a fast learning curve and it has a good 
 and easy to understand gameplay but one of its cons is that in some levels there are no checkpoint 
 sso if you reach the end of a level and someone kills you you will have to start all over againg 
 and that is really frustrating at some points of the gam, the ggraphics are uncomparable it has 
 great graphics and it is really difficult to beat for now and overall the game is a good fun war 
 game with a good story line that makes it more that just a game you become the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellhound1990
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 9, 2007 11:00 am PT
Review:  singleplayer:
  
  THE BAD
  
  well i played the game out in less than 10 hours on medium and i really didn't have the war feeling, the 
 problem is that your fellow allied soldiers just die too fast and that they aren't really smart. 
 however your enemy's are much stronger and have more health, so iff you just go out of a battle 
 and don't do anything then it's only a way of seconds and then there are only chimera left. the 
 second thing is that there aren't really many explosions or chaotic effects in the game just like 
 houses getting blown up or airplanes seeing collapsing just like in the first level and it's really 
 just in the first level.
  the last thing that i have to say is that there isen't any gore so you can't shoot arms or leggs 
 off an enemy but that's not really a problem.
  
  THE GOOD: the graphics just look wonderfull, and maby there aren't any buildings getting blowed 
 up just the city and parts of london look chaotic and destroyed because of the war.
  the good thing are the graphics, just everything looks wonderfull
  and have great details just 
 like iff you shoot the window you see every part of the window falling off or see grutches in it. 
 also iff you use a grenade or something you see chairs or other things flying in the air and this 
 really looks beautiful
  
  you also have many crazy weapons at your disposal and in one word they look AWESOME.
  
  Multiplayer.
 
  
  the multiplayer is one of the best apsects in this game you can chose from capture the flag too 
 team battle there really are many options in the multiplayer.
  the fun thing about doing the multiplayer is that you can have promotion and unlock more things 
 just like medals or assortiments so you can change costums and other things. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 9, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a sci-fi FPS thast follows an alternate history where WW2 never happened 
 and aliens have invaded earth on the 1950's.
  
  As I started playing I actually felt cold sweat at the total waste of 60 I had just commited, 
 I found the game a completely generic shooter. That lasted about 20 minutes.
  
  Then, all of a sudden, I was flooded with waves upon waves of great features and quality and it 
 turns out this is one of the best shooters I ever played.
  
  Graphics are exccellent, nothing of bad I can really point out, sound is effective, even if not 
 spectacular and gameplay is an exccelent mesh of little bits of other shooters, fortunately, it's 
 a mesh of only GREAT bits of other shooters.
  
  I particularly like the physics engine that really brings the battles to life and the entire ambiance 
 and presentation is polished to perfection.
  Weapons are varied and have very interesting alternate fire modes that open up a great array of 
 tactical possibilities.
  
  The game is not particularly long, but it really motivates you to play again since not only it 
 is great fun but there are great deals of content to be unlocked, including new weapons!
  
  A must buy for any PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 7:08 pm PT
Review:  Sony's Launch Title Action FPS Shooter dubbed Gears Of War Copy by some X360 Lovers would have 
 you crawling up the wall with excitement...
  
  Resistance is set in an alternate WWII setting, a virus known as the Chimeran Virus was sealed 
 for a decade in Russia, in three months it consumed Europe then the final invasion on the UK through 
 the channels began and slowly the Brittish lost, Finally the game kicks of where the British are 
 launching a final fight for liberation and of cause the Yanks being you are inbound to help out 
 giving them sweet as tanks and weapons... oh and plenty of soldiers to get killed...
  
  The game is a ground up FPS that feels like a cross between Call Of Duty and Killzone and the controls 
 are easy to use and occasionally use the Motion Sensing feature aka SIXAXIS... this is basically 
 whenever you get Grabbed or burned its time to shake that controller... oh and did i mention it 
 works online too...
  
  Resistance Offers a Co-op Campaign that is not online but they make up for it with their 40 Player 
 Online mode... that surely is a frag fest never before seen on a home console...
  
  Until recently the game was region only multiplayer but after many demands i myself being one of 
 them... Insomniac created GLOBAL servers... oh and a nifty map pack too...
  
  Sony's Survival horror action shooter Resistance is a must have for the PS3 and it is well worth 
 the price tag. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Bladez
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 6:12 pm PT
Review:  OK let's get started with another cookie cutter WWII shooter. You kill a bunch of Nazis. The end. 
 Ha, just kidding! It may look like a WWII shooter considering the setting but that war never got 
 started due to an invasion of those pesky aliens, the Chimera. These dudes pack a mean infection 
 and it has been spreading through Europe. A this virus is infecting and killing half of Europe, 
 the good ol' USA is called for some backup. You are Nathan Hale and you are starred here to crawl 
 through corridors and battlefields to fill any Chimeran threat full of lead. Or Bullseye energy 
 slugs. 
  
  Knowing famed game developer company Insomniac was constructing the game, I knew it couldn't lack 
 in the gameplay department. Moving, shooting, and ducking never feels this fluid. And you will 
 need that fluidity when a bunch a Steelheads come knocking. There are some intense battlefield 
 scenes here. Every one of them is a blast (literally) . And that blast will be coming from your 
 gun. Which gun? It's hard to choose because there are so many unique firearms here in play. The 
 rate of aquiring weapons is paced nicely and multiple playthrough offer new toys. You can shoot 
 through walls, richochet bullets, set organic mines, tag people, and flame just to name a few. 
 Gameplay, in short, is key in this game and is executed perfectly. 
  
  Games are fun to look at (duh) and Resistance is no exception. This game looks pretty good and 
 utilizes the graphics chip in the PS3 more than any other launch title. Although I have got to 
 say, if you are playing in SD you are missing out. HD does look significantly better and you can 
 tell that it was meant to be played in this fashion. Explosions dazzle your eyes and weapons effect 
 look great. Every Chimera is creepy and evokes a sort of scary vibe as you shoot them down. Something 
 minor but extremely cool was how the glass breaks. It breaks in a hyper-realsistic fashion that 
 it makes you want to break more windows in the game because it looks great. Although the game looks 
 great, the draw distance isn't as good. It isn't bad but it is still noticeable. Just think, this 
 game is a lauch title and still looks great. It seems hard to top. 
  
  Your ears also won't be disappointed. Voice acting is said in a good way, but the fact that there 
 isn't that much hinders the experience a bit. The explosions really feel and look very beautiful. 
 When you are unloading clip after clip at a gigantic Stalker or Widowmaker, the music is right 
 intact and ramps up along with the action. It sets the frantic mood when needed and the creepy 
 mood when needed. The "creepy mood" music really get you when you are corridor crawling. The screeches 
 that it emits made me jump more times than I will admit. You will often find yourself walking agonizingly 
 slow so you won't get suprised. I loved the effects from the weapons and you will too. The sounds 
 for the real and fictional weapons sound like they should and I really admire that. 
  
  Since the PS3 library is on the slim side (as for now...) Resistance won't leave the Blu-Ray drive 
 in the near future. As for the single player, multiple playthoughs are encouraged for unlocking 
 skins in multiplayer and weapons in single player. Skill points also help here. For example one 
 of them is shooting dart board targets with your sniper rifle. They range all over the place and 
 are very fun to "achieve" (take a hint Sony...) . Single player is a jolly ol' time but the real 
 attactiveness here in the multiplayer. Multiplayer is the real deal and the funnest part of the 
 game. Sniping a fool or stealth killing and noob isn't more exciting any where else. I gotta admit, 
 I follow my stats in mulitplayer. It is kind of hard not to, considering that they are very well 
 tracked. You even get ribbons for smaller things (like 3 kills in a row without dying) and medals 
 for biggers things (killing 10 people in a row without dying) . These become VERY addicting to get 
 and you find yourself using specific weapons to achieve them. If you don't DSL, you simply won't 
 get the most out of this experience, but you can play locally with a pal or co-op through story 
 mode. The only gripe is that I would wish that you could play online co-op through the campaign. 
 I still have fun playing this and so will you. 
  
  While shooting aliens isn't new by any means, it is rarely presented so perfectly. But all is forgiven, 
 given on how well produced this game is and how fun it is to play. Insomniac is known to to put 
 incredible amounts of polish in all of their products. 
  
  At the end of the day, this is a great game and must be picked up if you own Sony's newest platform. 
 Six hundred dollars might seem steep but with a launch title like this, you have to be curious 
 to what the future will hold for this system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9469
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 6, 2007 12:29 am PT
Review:  This game is everything you want from a first person shooter and has to be the best PS3 launch 
 game and still one of the best on the console.
  it has a great single player campaign which keeps you intrigued with its interesting and folding 
 story. you can even enjoy this experience the game with a friends in co-op mode which is a bonus.
 
  The physics and AI intelligence is great and adds an extra challenge to the game and makes the 
 game play feel realistic and rewarding.
  the online multiplayer is very well done with great maps which vary in style and several great 
 modes to play in. The game how ever doesn't have split screen multiplayer which some people have 
 been wondering. The online has also got a great ranking system which motivates you to spend countless 
 hours to reach the next rank and unlock new character clothes and accessories. This game has definitely 
 captured the next gen feel with good graphics and smooth gameplay. This game is my favorite PS3 
 game so far and is a must buy for EVERY PS3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merch
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:26 pm PT
Review:  resistance was the only worth while ps3 launch title and its still one of the top games next to 
 ninja gaiden.
  its a great war game that takes place in a nother reality where u fight the alien race the chimera.
 
  
  pros:
  greatest fps on the ps3 right now the ai seens pretty advanced on the higher difficulties
  looks 
 visualy great
  the weapons are a vast arsenal of human or chimera weapons.
  40 man multiplayer going on here.
  has a lot of replayablility
  
  cons:
  the 2 player co 
 op could use some work there were some glitches in the game but overall it was ok and sometimes 
 u would get kiked off the online play for no reason but they fixed that already.
  
  difficulty depends but i will put it on hard
  learning curve about 15 mins
  over 40 hours playing 
 it even though my ps3 is at my bros house now.
  its amaizing for a launch title
  8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DryvBy2
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  +Beautiful graphics and sounds. Very pleasant to play through.
  +40 player multi-player. With no lag?! Yes.
  -Games with giant aliens and machines require gore.
 
  -Lacks leaning on the wall tricks a la Gears of War/Rainbow Six: Vegas.
  
  I honestly didn't give this game any thought when I first heard about it. I didn't even want to 
 buy a PlayStation 3 for the obvious reason of the price. But eventually, I pulled out the ol' Best 
 Buy credit card and bought one, along with a copy of Resistance at a local game trading store called 
 Special FX. It took me a few days to actually get away from the PS2 games I missed out on while 
 the PS2 was owning all in the previous system wars, but I finally sat down and started playing. 
 And I loved it.
  
  The game is set in the era of World War II, but before World War II has even started, alien creatures 
 have risen up from no where and have started killing off everyone. They're known as the Chimera 
 and they're tearing their way all the way to the United Kingdom. That's where an American soldier 
 comes into play, named Nathan Hale. You're sent to help the UK Soldiers fight off the Chimera before 
 Europe is no more. The story is broken into segments of amazing looking cinematics, pieced together 
 with black and white pictures of the areas and maps that you'll be fighting in. It's narrated by 
 a soldier you encounter while escaping a Chimera prison, as she tells her side of what's going 
 on between battles.
  
  The graphics in the game are definitely great. One thing I noticed is zooming into a characters 
 ugly head doesn't mean up close and ugly textures. Zooming in to a character's face actually allows 
 you to see more of the texture even more clearly. Aside from just pretty textures, the game has 
 a nice particle effect limit with dust and sparks. The geometry of the levels are just as amazing 
 as everything else. Some of the levels and the amount of detail had me thinking how powerful the 
 PlayStation 3 really is. I never ran into a laggy portion of the game, or even a stutter. The audio 
 is great, too. The guns are really loud, and the voice acting is really well done.
  
  The controls are typical for a shooter. You move around with the two analog sticks, fire with the 
 right trigger, and alternative fire with the left. The one thing that sets it apart from the others 
 is the Sixaxis controls. They're not a key role in the game, but having something with the controller 
 options is nice. One instance of using the function is when a character grabs you (much like the 
 zombie-like Chimeras that choke you) , you can swing your controller around, as if struggling, and 
 butt the creature off. It's a little thing, but it adds a bit more to the game.
  
  The multiplayer is really impressive. There's several different modes to play, such as deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, co-op campaign, and a few new modes called conversion , meltdown , and breach 
 . Conversion is much like a last man standing game, while meltdown and breach are played out as 
 objective capturing game modes. What's really great is the different character classes are actually 
 different. It's not just a skin or anything; it's really different. Humans are faster and have 
 a radar system for detecting friends and foes. Chimeras don't have radars and are a bit bigger, 
 but they have the ability to go into a rage mode which helps them statistically, as well as the 
 advantage to see through walls. Playing on ranked servers will give you the ability to earn badges, 
 which is always fun. My favorite part about the multiplayer is the ability to do 40 players online... 
 without lag! It really beats doing 8 player matches in some multiplayer games.
  
  If you have a PlayStation 3, then you've probably played it. If you haven't played a PlayStation 
 3, and claim They're's no games for it! , well, then obviously you haven't seen one of the best 
 first-person shooters either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sal1903
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 5:46 am PT
Review:  I got my PS3 a week ago and it came with RFOM. At first I didn't think it would be much because 
 most launch titles I've played previously hasn't been the greatest. But I'm really enjoying RFOM, 
 it has a pretty good single player campaign and story, but what really shines is the awesome online 
 multiplayer, it is smooth and works great and lots of challenging players out there believe me. 
 Overall a great first game for me, I'm sure there will be more to come. So all you first person 
 shooter fans, you should give this a go, I'm sure you will enjoy it as much as I did. GO PS3!!!!!, 
 can't wait for MGS4: Guns Of The Patriots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marikan
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is one of those rare games which grabs you from the first minute. Using 
 the HDMI cable makes the good graphics brilliant. During the gameplay you will notice that the 
 developers had made a great job in changing the game's pace. One chapter you are in a battlefield 
 with everything exploding and tons of aliens are around you to shoot while the next chapter takes 
 you into narrow hallways where you can experience a nice and quite alien killing.
  
  The weapon selection is quite good. Once you get a handle on each weapon and its features you can 
 play more efficiently and the game becomes more fun. Co-op mode is also lots of fun. It plays smoothly 
 even there is 20+ characters on the screen. The healing action of co-op teammates is useful but 
 it makes the co-op mode quite easy. Nevertheless I recommend a co-op play with a friend. You will 
 have a blast. And finally the multiplayer. The multiplayer online could be frustrating at the beginning 
 as you get killed within seconds by the experienced players, you need lots of practice. You also 
 need to start from the right game choice. I recommend manchster sniper games for some time alone 
 or a team deathmatch in Grimsby will do for some fast action practice. Either way if you stick 
 to your teammates you tend to stay alive a lot longer. I have experienced slight problems during 
 multiplayer as I would be kicked out off the game because of network problems, after I have installed 
 the 1.82 update for PS3 and also the FOM update I experinced absolutely none. All in all this a 
 great launch game for PS3. It will keep you busy couple of weeks with its single player scenario, 
 and will keep you busy months with its online multiplayer action. I recommed each and every PS3 
 owner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KennYx7140
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 8:48 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got for my new Ps3 and it was definitely All it's cracked up to be. The 
 graphics are great and it has great value. I felt the game play was similar to other shooters though 
 which kind of took away the experience I was looking for. Also the online play is great and really 
 easy to get a match in so there isn't that much sitting and waiting. The online play is worldwide 
 to so you will be able to test your skills against the rest of the world and not just the servers 
 located in your area. All in all it is still a superb game and a must buy for Ps3 owners! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csqwared
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:57 pm PT
Review:  If You Own A PS3 And You Don't Own A Copy Of Resistance... Whats Wrong With You?! Go Out And Get 
 It, The Online Is Great Considering It's A Launch Game. And The Weapons Are Unique. The One Set 
 Back Is That Some People Don't Use Their Mics Online. But I Think People Exagerate, I Usually Find 
 At Least 1 Person Per Room To Talk To. Graphics Are Excellent, Story Is Awesome, And Controls Are 
 Great. They Could Have Done More With Offline Battlefield Mode Though. And With The New Global 
 Server You Can Play With Europeans, Americans, And Asian People. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheWestCoastDon
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 3, 2007 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is a great shooter that combines an interesting story with great gameplay 
 and great graphics which make it an amazing experience.
  
  The Story: In the story WWII never happened and as soon as WWI ended these species called the Chimera 
 suddenly appeared out of nowhere. They took over Russia whithin days and continued destroying countrys 
 with ease. As part of a plan to fight agianst these alien creatures, the U. S. sends its army to 
 London in order to fight and put up a resistance. You play as Nathan Hall and fight your way through 
 swarms of creatures to save the world.
  
  Gameplay: The shooter is very fun, its simple and easy to use. The weapons make for a sweet ride 
 throughout the game. Fighting your way through all these aliens is a lot of fun to do and it easy 
 to enjoy.
  
  Sound: The sound is great and it makes the weapons, explosions all the more better
  
  Overall: 
 This is a great fun game especially if you like shooters. If you have a PS3 this is a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  When you first boot up Resistance: Fall of Man you are met by some of the blandest menu screens 
 you'll ever see. Normally this would indicate that the game to follow would be mediocre and tedious 
 but that certainly isn't the case here.
  
  Graphically, while not as astounding as other PS3 launch titles (such as F1: Championship Edition) , 
 Resistance makes good use of the new hardware. While the environmental textures are somewhat lacking, 
 the character models are truely breath-taking, reaching a level only matched by Half Life 2. The 
 other thing which Resistance does well in the graphics department is the sense of scale during 
 set-piece sequences. Some of the larger, more open spaces are filled with incredible structures 
 which could have been lifted straight from a Hollywood sci-fi movie, such is their magnificent 
 design.
  
  The gameplay though in Resistance is fairly generic. The whole game is basically run and gun. What 
 stops this from being truely dreadful is the ingenious weapon designs, particularly the Chimera's 
 (or the aliens') weapons. The weapons turn what would otherwise be a farily generic shooter into 
 a much more in-depth experience.
  
  Online, the game supports massive 40 player battles - the most ever seen on a console game. For 
 most part these are tremendous fun. However, you're not going to get addicted to them like would 
 playing Halo, simply because there is so little voice chat (the PS3 requires you to buy a BlueTooth 
 headset) and the same maps are often repeated again and again.
  
  Overall, Resistance: Fall of Man is decent FPS game with great weapon designs and a fairly lenghy 
 campaign, which can also be played in split-screen co-op (though not online) . Don't expect to be 
 completely blown away by it though. The gameplay itself is fairly simple and the online won't keep 
 you going for too long. That said, if you enjoy FPS games then you'll still have a fantastic time 
 playing Resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chain_Strike
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  This is a solid game. Since these are the creators of R&amp; C so I wouldn't be surprised. Anyways 
 this game is probably one fo the best PS3 games to date. The stroyline for it is excellent very 
 nice. The graphics..... HOLY HELL unreal blows my mind into pieces. The places you see in this game 
 are better then fantastic especially where in one part with the tank (can't reember the naem, it's 
 near the end of the game) but ya awesome in every way. The charcters are very well done. The Ally 
 AI is not bad but could be better for example, if your shooting at a chimera or your setting up 
 a trap and your ally walks right into it kinda makes me mad sometimes. The sound is really superb, 
 top notch. Now the enemies these chimera are something to wonder about in my case. They are farily 
 intelligent and have a variety of weapons at their disposal (which you can also use) . I haven't 
 played online yet but I think im gona be in for a real ride when I do play online. So if your looking 
 for a nice solid action FPS gmae then this is it. Did I mention that it can hold up to 40 players 
 online? which is always nice. The more the merrier lol! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo9204
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Resistance is one of those games that never let you do anything else for a long time. Its amazing 
 story line, plethora of unlockables, free and huge (40 person) maps. I mean wow. The weapons are 
 just amazing. You can go old school with human weapons like the carbine, rossmore shotgun, L23 
 Fareye (sniper) , or use Chimeran warfare like the wall penetrating Auger or the electrifing Arc 
 Charger. Amazing level designs and character option in online makes the game so deep. With so many 
 different game types, its hard to get bored of this game, especially with the addition of the new 
 maps. Only thing it needs is online coop. This game should be the first choice for PS3 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:42 am PT
Review:  i got this game when it frist come out and i gve it 8 .9. but now im giveng it 9.9. it the best 
 fist person shooter iv played to date .frist ofall its an hard game to complate .wich u wont ? 
 it has lot of repaly value once u done the game and start aging .thers moor cool weapons u can 
 use and when u finish the game on hard it gose on to supper human. the game has got soom cool boss 
 .but the best fing about this game is the cool weapons u get to use. they will be some of the best 
 weapons u will ever use in eny game i think its a long game to complate for a frist person shooter 
 .challenging for the palyer to finish. the story mode good has well its got some cool set piece 
 s . some of the aliens are cool u get to use vehicles has well .but to be honst ther just basic 
 but the jeep is cool .graphics wise is realy good with ome cool weather effect s . u . can all 
 so do the game story mode with a friend .the multi player for the game is the best on ps3. u can 
 play with up to 40 players at a time in death match team death match and catch a flag meltdown 
 and so on . this is my frist review . hope it was helpfull buy this game its the best on ps3 t 
 date buy it / 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darklinuxmaster
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2007 7:29 am PT
Review:  O. K. this game is so un believably fun and it is worth every penny of its cost!, The multy player 
 is awesome because it lets you do the whole story with 2 players, the first time i played this 
 I knew i was going to be addicted!!! I always thought halo was a good fps but this game is better! 
 you can get all these cool weapons and kill aliens, what is better than that? the graphics are 
 breath taking so this game is a MUST HAVE to all F. P. S fans!!! and check out all my other reviews!!! 
 this game is an instant classic !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Postlik
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: great weapons and smart AI give a great experience. Could have used a cover mechanic.
 
  
  Graphics: Clean and sharp, great art direction, not something mindblowing though.
  
  Sound: Regular FPS sound- drums and saxophones. The shooting sounds great.
  
  Value: A pretty 
 long story mode, backed up by achievement points give great replay value. The online is just an 
 example of how multiplayer should be- just perfect (40 players) .
  
  Tilt: The theme ,art direction and weapons are very original. Shame the gameplay is'nt. This is 
 a great game and I see it as a must-have for all PS3 owners. Though if you do'nt like first person 
 shooters, this one wo'nt change your minds because of the common gameplay mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Johal360
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  This games soo coool I think its much better than oblivion, this game didnt deserve a 9 but that 
 doesnt mean this game sucks!   
 ****
  
  And you willl have a lot of fun because campagn has a nice story and the multiplayer looks great 
 :D
  
  YOU WILL LOVE IT !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!1
  
   
 DDDDDDDDDDDDDDD DD D D DD DD DDSDS SAD SAD AS SADASDA SD ASDASDQWER EWR WER WR WERWER WE EWR EWR 
 WER WE WERWE WER WER EWRWERWEREWR H H H H H HUHUIH J J J JJ J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J J 
 J J J 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is a very unique setting for a FPS. We've all seen the WWII's, the modern tactical combats, 
 the sci-fi's. But Resistance breaks the mould. It is set in the 1940's. During what would have 
 been WWII. But WWII never happened. Instead, an alien race known as the Chimera invades Asia, then 
 moves into Europe and eventually into the United Kingdom. Thats where America jumps in, and our 
 hero. He is sent in as a regular army soldier to help stop this invasion. As it turns out, he becomes 
 one of the sole survivors. So Resistance is a solid game for the PS3. THE first solid entry into 
 the PS3 library. So it is/was a must have for early owners of the console. The graphics are very 
 good, not overwhelming. The gameplay is tight, and the sound is great. Its a little on the hard 
 side, which is good. And when u beat the game the first time around, you unlock a whole new selection 
 of guns for the second go-around. Great replay value. The online play isnt all that great. I havent 
 spent much time on it. It doesnt change anything. Just shoot people on the other side. I guess 
 it does that well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  Everything You Need to Know About the Fall of Man (*Very In depth) 
  Resistance Fall Of Man: How did they do it?
  
  Where Am I?
  Consider yourself in the middle 
 of a battle field where two huge metal spiders are crawling around a snowy city while an opposing 
 enemy throws a grenade sending hundreds of needles in every direction. Some piercing its own allies 
 and others killing your comrades. You take your gun raise it at the enemy spider and before you 
 can even get off a shot the metal giant have already turned its turrets on you as well as the other 
 30 to 40 chimera in the general vicinity. You start firing aimlessly while stepping backwards throwing 
 an air fuel grenade which emits a large area of gas into the air around a squad of 5-10 chimera. 
 The gas then lights and the entire squad are burned black while the stalkers slowly walk through 
 the smoke. You then take out another weapon in your ever expanding arsenal and use the alternate 
 fire to create an electric barrier in front of you. The Stalkers Ammo is repelled off of the electrical 
 shield while you turn around and run into an abandoned house hold. From their, you get behind a 
 cracked brick wall and begin to fire your weapons shots directly through the bricks and into the 
 cockpit of the robotic spider. You look to your left and you see Laark ammo on the floor. Loading 
 your cannon you hide behind the wall and wait for the fire to stop. The stalkers turret has overheated 
 and you take this opportunity to come peak your head outside the window and fire off two rockets 
 directly into the body of the beast. It explodes, filling the air with smoke and metal legs all 
 over the disassembled city block. Immediately you see a golden shine on the ceiling above you. 
 Natural Instincts force you to take four steps backward as golden beams of light drip from the 
 ceiling like rain. Quickly using the same munitions you fire your own shots into the ceiling and 
 suddenly things are oddly silent. It then takes you less then a second to analyze what's going 
 on. Coming to the realization that you have dozens of chimera outside of the building shooting 
 inwards, an auger carrying chimera on the second floor of your supposed safe spot, and now a large 
 organic spider breaking open a fence to your left spewing large bubbles of acid. You think about 
 your comrades and if it's possible they could help, but to your dismay you see that they're all 
 busy holding off the western front where even more chimera and another stalker waits...
  
  Story
  These are the types of situations that Resistance constantly puts you into during the 
 campaign and all need to be handled strategically based on the weapons that you carry. How much 
 you may or may not like the story of Resistance is up to your personal preference really. If you 
 enjoy being a detective and finding clues to further explain a rather cryptic storyline then this 
 game is perfect for you. But on the other hand if you like stories that reveal everything straight 
 up and puts everything on the table then this story may not be for you. Basically instead of World 
 War II occurring many events that did not happen in our own reality lead up to a large scale chimeran 
 attack beginning in Russia to eventually snowball its way to Britain. The only place in Europe 
 the Chimera has yet to either convert or completely destroy. Now chimera's origins, reasons for 
 attack and relations to another strange yet unseen group are explained somewhat in the story, but 
 you'll find most of this information through Intel somewhat hidden within each stage. Nathan Hale 
 the stories hero came from Americas attempt to help out Europe in this growingly impossible war. 
 As the story gets to the halfway point of the first level something strange happens to Hale, which 
 results in him gaining the positive attributes of your average chimeran soldier. One being regenerative 
 powers due to the Chimera's high metabolism, and the other is increasingly fast reflexes and reactions. 
 The story is well put together and done in a History Channel Esque way of narration by a British 
 female commanding officer.
  
  Game Play
  The game play mechanics are of course that of your average first person shooter. The default controls 
 (everything is customizable) have you shooting with R1. Secondary fire is done with L1, while L2 
 is for crouching and R2 is for either bringing up a weapon switch menu by holding down the button 
 or a quick switch by simply tapping it. During the single player campaign the game pauses when 
 you hold down R2 to change your weapons, but if you play Co op through the campaign, then the pause 
 is taken off meaning less time to really sit and think what weapon is best for that certain scenario. 
 Controls are tight and you'll never see a bullet fly past your head and still damage you or the 
 other way around. Your fire will show its affect on the chimera wherever your bullet pierces skin, 
 clothing, or armor. Resistance also offers more then one way to handle the various battles and 
 you find yourself actually using every means of attack you obtain out of pure necessity. It's too 
 many times in shooters where I find myself using only one weapon exclusively when I have an array 
 of weapons under my belt, but luckily Insomniac has addressed this problem by including weapons 
 that are all useful. Don't let the standard Assault Rifle, Shotgun, and sniper rifle fool you. 
 There is a healthy supply of weaponry here and all are fun, useful and highly original. Each gun 
 has a good purpose and it's up to you as Nathan Hale to really figure what each gun is best for 
 and trust me... each gun will either save you on many various occasions or provide you with an experience 
 you will never forget.
  
  As for other game play features. Resistance offers offline cooperative play with a friend, which 
 adjusts the difficulty level by adding more enemies, tougher AI, and other surprises. An offline 
 death match providing matches for up to 4 players. Unfortunately there are no bots in this game 
 so you will have to venture online for the famed 40 player battles everyone's been talking about. 
 Oh and trust me you don't want to miss out on the online play. I don't want to spoil anything from 
 the game, but there are also vehicles. Vehicles that are extremely easy to use and provide the 
 player with a whole lot of fun. Basically things get intense and that's what Resistance will be 
 known for to the players who have completed the game.
  
  FrameRate?
  As for lag and glitches, I must say I've seen close to none. Actually I've never experienced lag, 
 but if I must say something negative then I'll say that your comrades Ai could use some work. They 
 are not nearly as intelligent as your enemies and they more or less are cannon fodder. The game 
 offers things called Hero Moments where you can actually save a soldiers life, but eventually they 
 will most likely die anyway.
  
  Environment
  Now the environments are always different with every level and provide the player with an experience 
 that will not only cause complete immersion, but also make them look in awe as snow falls and over 
 40 soldiers battle it out on a burned and close to completely destroyed avenue. At the same time 
 large metal spiders trot around trees and over rubble. Now I've yet to see level designs this impressive 
 in a long time, and the variations in level designs are increasingly impressive as well. You will 
 start the game with two levels very similar to what you'd expect to see in a World War II game, 
 but immediately after that you will be thrust into a dark and claustrophobic abandoned pier covered 
 in smog and alien architecture. The game can be completely quiet then down the hallway of a dark 
 corridor a shadow will sprint by. The game will let out a suspenseful screech and from there you 
 will be left in silence. You will actually be afraid to turn corners and the game does a great 
 job of creating these growing emotions through its various battlefields. Levels span from huge 
 all out wars in a destroyed city, to abandoned military bases where a flashlight is needed simply 
 to navigate its long hallways and disturbing laboratories. I mean you even get to walk through 
 dark subway cars with some being at weird angles providing a very cool level.
  
  The sounds of explosions and footsteps further your immersion into the game. You will hear faint 
 screams in the smaller areas and lines of huge explosions from the larger maps. Sound will often 
 save your life as well as each gun makes a specific noise that will basically let you know someone's 
 there and they're using a specific gun giving you time to choose the right weapon to take down 
 this opposing threat.
  
  Graphics are not bad at all due to the games environments. But sometimes you will likely notice 
 some textures looking rather simplistic compared to the rest of the games beautiful scenery. Character 
 models are amazing, but sometimes these piles of pebbles just look so jagged that I want to take 
 a pencil and shade the poor rocks in myself. Anyway, other then the very rare low textured pile 
 of rocks you will stand in awe at the presentation of the battlefields and claustrophobic indoor 
 fights. In my opinion I see the graphics getting better and better as the game progresses. Each 
 level is more visually stunning then the last and the game simply becomes more and more exciting 
 as you continue on the 10 to 15 hour journey.
  
  Negatives
  Negatives. Every game has them and this one doesn't get by without a few cuts and bruises. Now 
 if I were to sit here and name off every fault Resistance has then I'd simply be nit picking. Because 
 honestly this game doesn't have many faults. But I must name some for the sake of this review and 
 I'll try my best to list them here. Okay so your comrades Ai is plain dumb. They barely help you 
 at all, except for the fact they sometimes direct enemy fire away from you for about a split second. 
 The graphics are not the best in the industry and the lack of online cooperative play brings a 
 tear to my eye. This games campaign would shine brighter then the sun if it had online cooperative. 
 It almost seems like it could have been a need and not a simple want. And last, but not least the 
 hybrids, although always seeming to put up a different fight are used a bit much throughout the 
 game. They are definitely a fun enemy to fight, but Insomniac could have used more of its huge 
 variety of enemies during the single player.
  
  Are you going to want to play this over?
  Replay ability... The game is definitely one you'll want to show off to your friends. This is the 
 type of game that you will invite a friend over to try and complete the co op campaign with. It 
 is highly addictive and will provoke you to replay the game the moment you finish the last level. 
 It actually includes hidden weapons that were not available on your first play through and other 
 information that could help you learn more about the games story line. Another reason to the games 
 replay ability is it's interesting and fun to use weaponry. Even the grenades are extremely fun. 
 I won't go into details about the guns, but I will say that every gun is worth using and each have 
 a purpose. You could certainly choose to the go through the game on easy with the standard assault 
 rifles, but if you wanted to try the game on medium or any of the other higher difficulties then 
 you will without a doubt sit down and learn exactly how to use these weapons that mean the difference 
 between life and death. Simply learning the uses of each gun adds replay value, and on top of that 
 you get more guns after playing through a second time. Every weapon has a secondary fire option 
 and often times help make the gun what it is. On top of the awesome weaponry, you will discover 
 that the Ai is not stupid. They will duck behind cover and in some cases flank you and your squad 
 or cooperative partner. You will not be able to sit behind cover forever because they will have 
 one chimera shoot the place where you might want to stick your head out to fire while another chimeran 
 soldier runs behind you and beats you down with his rifle. I also was in many firefights where 
 the enemy would throw an unprecedented amount of grenades. I continued to die pathetically, but 
 instead of becoming frustrated with the game I was actually excited instead.
  
  Online
  A huge factor about Resistance that really makes the game stand out, is the online portion. Insomniac 
 really pulled out all the stops here and created a game that could keep you busy for weeks, let 
 alone months and possibly years to come. There are two types of online games, ranked and unranked. 
 Battles fought from the beginning of a match, which most of the time consists of two rounds give 
 the player experience points that help him level up to different ranks allowing the player to unlock 
 multiple helmets, heads, skins, accessories and more to individualize your online avatar. Modes?
 
  There are 6 modes of play including Breach, which is a 40 man game about capturing nodes closer 
 to the opposing team's reactor so that you can spawn closer every time you die so that you can 
 eventually destroy your target. Meltdown, which is a smaller version of breach. Conversion, a spin 
 on the standard death match mode where every player starts as a human, and if you are killed then 
 you re spawn as a chimer then if you die from there its over. Team Death match, which is your standard 
 kill anyone on the opposing team and gain points from simply taking out your target or assisting 
 others in taking out a target. Death match, which is the same as team death match except your alone. 
 And last, but not least Capture the Flag, which has one team try to capture the flag and bring 
 it back to their own base. In the unranked games, all those modes are customizable with the ability 
 to take certain guns out of the mix, adjust the amount of points it takes to win, decide whether 
 you want humans vs. chimera, chimera vs. chimera, humans vs. humans, or even humans and chimera, 
 vs. humans and chimera. Maps
  The maps can also be scaled to be large or small depending on the amount of players in a game. 
 Maps range from allowing 8, 16, 32 and 40. Humans and Chimera have different abilities that are 
 activated with the L2 button. Humans can sprint by tapping the L2 button, but they have no aimer 
 during the sprint, while Chimera can go into a rage mode that allows them to see life forms in 
 the shape of glowing purple silhouettes through walls and other barriers. Humans also have a radar 
 that allows them to see enemies on the map, while chimera's firepower increases when they go into 
 rage mode, but overheat and lose life if they stay in rage mode too long.
  Balance?
  The game is wonderfully balanced and I've used many guns online in many different ways to counter 
 many guns that I thought were cheap, but turned out to have weaknesses. I've also had situations 
 where I thought I was being cheap to only discover that someone had used a gun that I thought was 
 weak to completely dominate me. Resistance Players often say that the Chimera's rage make it very 
 difficult for a human to win in a gun fight due to the Chimera's increase in firepower, but while 
 the Chimera may be strong in rage mode, the humans have infinite sprint meaning a very easy time 
 in capture the flag games or other modes that require moving a large distance. Chimera start the 
 match out with the standard alien rifle which has poor accuracy unless you hit the enemy with a 
 tag, which usually creates instant death for those hit by it, while the humans start off with the 
 carbine assault rifle, which is more accurate, fires from a longer range, does more damage to chimera, 
 but has a lower firing rate then the chimeran rifle and less ammo per clip.
  Lag?
  I've yet to encounter lag no matter what size game I am in, or how many explosions or players are 
 on the screen at once. The only strange things I've seen are of people standing still and taking 
 more shots then normal before they die, but that's pretty much it. You won't see lag players or 
 glitchers exposing any flaws, and so far everything has gone well.
  Online Features
  Match making is done through ranked games and playing with friends is extremely easy with the games 
 party system. You can create a party of your friends (up to 20 players) or other players, then 
 move from one game to another, while dragging all the members of your party with you and on to 
 your own team. It's a great feature and has been very useful so far. The game also has an extremely 
 detailed stat tracking book, which allows you to look at your best weapon, worst weapon, various 
 ribbons and medals you've earned and how many times you've earned them (headshots, melee kills 
 etc.) , in game achievements like who beat the campaign, obtaining 100 kills with a certain gun 
 etc., shots fired of a particular gun, kills with that gun, accuracy of that gun, and many more. 
 After a game you can also see who you were killed the most by and who you killed the most of. There 
 is also a list of players you've recently played with so you can easily send a friend invite just 
 in case you forgot to do so after the game. Voice chat is very clear due to Insomniac paying Voice 
 Age to increase the audio of the headset chatting, and so far the community seems to be growing 
 at a slow, but progressive pace. This game online is simply fun and addicting as well with huge 
 very detailed maps offering 11 locations, but completely different when scaled down. Some portions 
 of the smaller maps aren't even on the larger 40 player maps, so if you were to actually count 
 the areas it'd be about 20 or so. Games are often very intense and spawn killing isn't a huge problem 
 as of yet. You almost never feel crowded even with the 40 players and downloadable content is supposed 
 to be on its way. Final Thoughts
  Overall Resistance is a must play game whether you have a ps3 or not. The game is actually pretty 
 fun in cooperative play and offers enough difficult situations to have you and your friend thinking 
 of new ways to attack a scenario that was seemingly impossible just moments before. The guns are 
 all useful and original along with levels and enemies that further help put those guns to good 
 use. The vehicle portions of the Campaign are simple at first, but later become just as difficult 
 as a fire fight, but in some cases even more intense then what you thought the game could achieve. 
 Resistance is great for newcomers to the FPS genre and for those of you that are FPS veterans I 
 say you have a lot of fun just waiting to be played. Don't be fooled by the beginning, because 
 the game does pick up and it does so in the best way possible. Resistance takes many little influences 
 from other great First Person shooters you've played in the past, but adds a whole lot more with 
 some of the most intense battles you might have ever seen. In fact, I've yet to see another game 
 that has as much going on at once in a game without lag as Resistance does almost flawlessly in 
 some of its major battles. I highly recommend this game and believe it should be enjoyed by all 
 gamers. If you're not an FPS fan then play it with a friend who is. You will have fun just being 
 on the ride, and if you are a hardcore FPS fan then give this game a shot. Go from start to finish 
 because not a single part of this game should be missed by the audience Insomniac tried so hard 
 to impress. Graphics:
  Amazing graphics, which are put to the limit during some of the largest and intense battles I've 
 ever experienced in an FPS.
  9/10
  
  Game Play:
  Guns that are amazingly original and fun to use, plus a game that puts you in situations that actually 
 needs them.
  9/10
  
  Environment:
  Jaw dropping stages and sounds (or lack of) , create a sense of immersion strong enough to make 
 you jump from fright and uncontrollable excitement.
  10/10
  
  Replay ability:
  With a huge amount of unlockable guns, concept art books, and more. Who needs a collectors edition. 
 And with an online game like Resistance you could be busy for months.
  10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolegend35
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  when i first played resistance i was expecting halo, fast action huge battles crucial use of melee 
 and grenades and colourful visuals ,so after months of hearing the hype i walked away a little 
 bit dissapointed true its an excellent shooter but it just seems like a copy of halo which failed. 
 the lack of vechiles really makes the game a lot less exciting from the start and it seems like 
 the developers didnt make use of the 50gb disk memory which shows in the shortage of weopens true 
 the hedgehog grenade is extremly satisfying and things like cars dismantling relisticly is cool 
 but in the end it becomes boring and just another over hyped first person shooter which doesnt 
 add anyyhing to the genre and will be forgotton in a years time. hopefully the sequel if there 
 is one will include vechiles and more guns to add more to the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSboy
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  The game is a pretty awesome fps... The storyline is great the graphics are great and the sound 
 is awesome. At the beggining you won't be so addicted to the game, but as you progress you become 
 more and more addicted to it's storyline and gameplay!! The weapons are the most innovative weapons 
 in a game, there is a great variety and every weapon has a special first and secondary fire mode!! Online 
 it's on of the best for a console! you will spend many hours playing online with this game!! So for 
 a first generation ps3 game resistance should not be missed!!! The graphics in the game are great 
 but not superb. There are times that you will be really impressed by the graphics and times that 
 are not that great. Sound is awesome!!! Weapons sounds, special effects, voice acting, all are great!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tda503
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:34 am PT
Review:  my first impression of this game was that it was going to be pretty good. i was right. i've been 
 playing this game for about a week, and i think that its pretty fun. This is a fast paced game, 
 meaning its not like doom 3 where the enemy makes a scream or noise and then it attacks, your enemys 
 just pop out and attack. weapons are cool. as you progress thoughout the game. as your going along 
 you get guns like the auger that the gun is designed to shoot through walls (good for you when your 
 using it, but alot of the time you will get mad because there shooting you though your cover...) 
 the story line is ok.... but its still a fun game to play, and takes a while to beat. if your looking 
 for a game to fill your time and is fun, then buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: miningguy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  Im sure you all have played a WWII game whethert it is Call of Duty or Metal of Honor but now this 
 game has a new twist to it. Instead of the Axis taking over, ailens take over. The aliens are called 
 The Chimera. Your job as Nathan Hale is to keep them from reaching the US coast line. The story 
 of this game is pretty good but could be much better. Overall the game play is really good ofline 
 and also online. The online features up to 40players on various maps. Most maps have bigger and 
 smaller maps for 8, 16, 26, and 40ppl. You can play as a Human or as The Chimera. There is a ranking 
 system like RB6: VEGAS which uses millitary ranks. One of my favorite features is a clan list for 
 clan battles and also for gamebattles or any other site that will use Resistence for clan battles. 
 When the cutsceens for the story mode come up they usualy have great voice acting and also have 
 amazing movment by Nathan Hale and also some other characters too. Overall this game is great and 
 will give you a new story to WWII (Finally) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GPSnake03
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:00 am PT
Review:  Resistance: fall of man is one of the best games that I have play . The chimeran threat began in 
 Russia The origin of the virus is unknown, but its effects were devastating and wift. I n the 1930s 
 reports of biological experiments began leaking out of russia, then reports of villages destroyed 
 overnight, then entire cities. We feared the Russians had developeda eapopn of unparalleled power. 
 The truth was far wore. The Chimera stayed sealed within Russia for over a decade . Then, in 1949, 
 they launched an attack that overwhelmed all of Europr in a matter of weeks. For several months 
 thay thought that England was safe but in October 1950 tha chimera burrowed under tha channel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colem1234
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Firing up Resistance: Fall of Man, I was cautiously optomistic as to what we were about to play. 
 After all, I have never been a huge fan of any genre other sport, although wanting to branch out 
 into other genres. Myself and my flatmate initially played the co-op mode and it took our breath 
 away. At times, some collossal battles took place which left our hearts pounding. This continued 
 throughout the whole story mode and is certainly one of the best I have played on any console.
 
  
  The online mode is, also, excellent. A wealth of different game modes awaits you once you connect 
 through to the servers, and there are always plenty of people to battle with too. From 40-man death-matches 
 to team games of capture the flag and other such games. The action is always chaotic, and at times, 
 brilliantly frustrating (I mean this in the sense that when you die a lot online, as i tend to 
 do, its frustrating but only wants to make you a better player in the long run so you can do it 
 to others) .
  
  The sound is incredible, adding an awesome atmosphere to the outstanding gameplay. Along with the 
 superb graphics, this makes the whole experience one that you'll want to come back to again and 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcxps3
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:04 am PT
Review:  I have never been a fan of the fps genre but i do enjoy classics like Goldeneye and Perfect Dark. 
 With teh PS3 launch Resistance was obviously the premier game and it delivers on nearly every level. 
 The Sinlge player campaign is long, lengthy, and a blast to play either with a buddy or alone. 
 The Graphics portary the erry alternate reality of Britain unbelivably and the story presents u 
 with a great mix of Creepy Crawls and epic shoot outs. THe multiplayer is awesome online. witht 
 plenty of match options and levels to choose from alongside a 40 person per game limit the multiplayer 
 can get intense and more importantly fun. Inssomniac has created a spectacular game and i only 
 see two flaws. The first is the Story and characters arent as fleshed out as tthey should be which 
 is a bummer because theire was so much potential for an awesome tale. Hopefully that will be fixed 
 with the expected sequel. Second the graphics dont look so hot on an SDTV so upgrade to HD pronto.
 
  
  The weapons here steal the show by being so dierse balanced and creative. All the elements combine 
 to make a truly awesom game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blackjack141
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 9, 2008 11:24 pm PT
Review:  This game showed me that playstation 3 was back in the game and i was astonished at how well this 
 game was handeled. It was higly addicted and was a good first person shooters. One of the best 
 things were the weapons ranging from homing bullets to bullrts that could go through walls. In 
 the game it actually felt like you were fighting for your country and aliens were attacking. graphics 
 and movement were Exceptional and online was astounding. The only thing it needed was co-op online 
 and it would be the best game
  
  Overall I thought this game was brilliant and i will play it again 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnps3
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2007 6:14 pm PT
Review:  No doubt, if you have a PLAYSTATION3, you must have this game. The best shooter I've ever played... 
 with great multiplayer. The graphics are 100% realistic, if you shoot a window the glass breaks 
 perfectly, it's beautiful. The gameplay is awesome too, very easy to shoot. The sound is another 
 great thing in this game, it has wonderful effects, the creatures screaming, the sound of your 
 bullets hitting walls, doors, windows.... PERFECT.
  It's a must have for any PS3 owner. No doubt that this game will be a classic and will not be forgotten. 
 I can't wait for the next Resistance.... Don't believe what some fanboys says about this game... 
 rent it or buy it, you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarioKolev
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a game which has successfully kick-started the PS3 era and will not 
 be soon forgotten. This game is what many call an instant classic. Undoubtedly, the game has every 
 single necessary element that needs to be present in a fantastic first-person shooter. The thing 
 that makes the game outstanding is the fact that it has more than just those elements. It goes 
 beyond the ordinary FPS and brings innovative weapons, a great storyline, and remarkablyy amusing 
 multiplayer action. The only possible improvement that can be made to this game is the ability 
 to play split-screen online with up to 4 players (guests) . Overall, this game has boosted the sales 
 of the PS3 tremendously and has every quality that attracts even the mildest FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toni_xhoni
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  the first time i popped in resistance on my ps3 i was totally amazed!! cool interface, awesome graphics 
 and beautiful cinematics. this game totally dropped my jaw.
  it has an awesome singleplayer mode which can last you 20 hours long!
  but what totally rocked 
 my world was the multiplayer. you can challenge up to 40 players own or get owned. youv got deathmatch, king 
 of the hill, capture the and more.
  whats also awesome about this game is that you use the tilt controls, which for example if the chimera 
 jumps on you, you got to shake the controller to knock it off of you.
  so if you have a ps3 and truly find out what hi def is all about go get resistance its a true killer 
 app! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:46 pm PT
Review:  Resistance was the first great game on the PS3. It was a launch title. That graphics are very good 
 on my SDTV. The game play is awesome with all the fun weapons you expect from Insomniac. The sound 
 is very good and you hear the Chimera swear sometimes. The value is awesome with a great story 
 mode and a superb online mode. Online has kept me hooked for months. It can be hard or easy, depending 
 on what you set the difficulty too. My tilt is 10 because I love it so much. This is not a rent. 
 It is an amazing buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadow2k6
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 25, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a first-person shooter and its also a launch title for the Playstation 
 3 but either as a launch title or a first-person shooter its a great game.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man was developed by Insomniac Games the same developer behind Spyro the Dragon 
 and the more recent Ratchet and Clank series. Resistance is a big change for the developer since 
 their past game have been pretty kid-friendly but with Resistance as a mature-rated game it has 
 a more gritty and mature feel then their other games.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man has a single player campaign that runs up to 12 hours so it is longer then 
 most FPS campaigns . However at some parts you start to think they could of took some parts out, 
 since it does drag out. Either way the campaign is great even though some parts tend to drag out. 
 The story to put it bluntly is humans agaisn't a mutation which has taken over Russia and most 
 of Europe and now is trying to take over England. You can only play with another person in the 
 campaign with splitscreen co-operative.
  
  The multiplayer is really well done. You can play up to 1-4 players in a multiplayer game via splitscreen 
 or you can play with up to 1-40 players in a online match via the Playstation Network. There is 
 a wide variety of maps so it doesn't get repetitive plus Insomniac Games can always put out new 
 maps as download content. Online wise the game shines with the Halo 2-esque matchmaking. You either 
 go in matchmaking (where it puts you in a ranked game with people of similiar skill) or you can 
 go in optimatch and search for a game that is unranked. There is also a clan system where you can 
 make a clan and invite people to it and there is also a friends list where you can invite people 
 to your game or lobby. Either way if your going to play multiplayer by splitscreen or online the 
 multiplayer experience is great.
  
  The overall feeling of Resistance: Fall of man is great and it will last you a long time thanks 
 to the multiplayer and the campaign will last you a while too. Resistance is definetely a great 
 game to get for your Playstation 3 if your a fan of First-Person Shooters or if you just want a 
 great game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bow_hammer17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:52 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a sweet a$$ FPS for the PS3. This game was my first game that I picked 
 up and it still has a high replay value. Ive seen better graphics on Elder Scrolls, but this isnt 
 Elder Scrolls now is it. The game play is very good, I would compare it to Halo. The weapons that 
 you get are whip a$$. They all are sweet in there own way. The online is, my god, kick a$$ too. 
 With up 40 players online, and unloclable skins, I say RFOM is a must get for those PS3 owns. This 
 game is just fun to play over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM_00
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 24, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Resistance isn't too much of an original shooter, but it's pretty good in its execution and a lot 
 of the weapons are interesting, fun to play around with, and useful. The graphics in the game aren't 
 really too good, but they serve their purpose. I do enjoy the sounds of the different weapons and 
 the voice acting is great for a FPS. The single player in the game isn't too long, but the story 
 is interesting the first time you play it and co-op is really fun especially on the hardest difficulty. 
 Multi-player is where it really shines though. I'm old-school and still like the traditional split-screen 
 multiplayer which is really fun and online is great too. You can get a lot of people in one map 
 and the weapons all have their special uses online (except the flamethrower which sucks) . Overall 
 I love this game single or multi player and i'm still playing it a couple months after buying it 
 so its got pretty good longevity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link5y5
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 24, 2007 2:45 pm PT
Review:  All the weapons in the game were really cool. The Graphics are really good for a PS3 game. This 
 was one of the first games i got for the PS3, but after single player mode, i got really bored 
 of it. The story mode seemed kind of short to me and it could have been better. The weapon selections 
 were large. You could choose a shotgun, rocketl launcher, carbine, and many more. There were many 
 good monsters to kill and a big variety. I recommend to get this game, unless u dont have internet 
 access, then it would be boring without multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chikkkenbutt
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:03 am PT
Review:  When i first picked up the controller, i was so freggin excited cause i knew this was going to 
 be a great game. and it totallly blew me away. the graphics were breathtaking, but the thing i 
 loved the most about this game was the pace. It was too fast. everything was in a blur and i just 
 had to think on my feet. the ai of my opponents was amazing and because of that i was able to find 
 a challenge. it was creepy as hell (i would not recommend playing it at night when alone) but other 
 than that it was gr8. i would've liked to get more opportunities to reload and recieve more ammo, 
 and it would've been nice if i had ai soldiers to back me up. i mean, what's the point of being 
 in the army if there is no army. it was just basically u and urself. But moving lets go on to something 
 that i expected nothing less from from one of my fav my companies, insomniac: THE WEAPONS. now, 
 i know a lot of ppl say that resistance could've had more originality with creating the monsters 
 and whatnot, but if u pay attention, u'll see that the weapons counter that facet completely. who 
 would think of a gun that would cre8 a freggin shield right in front of u and have bullets that 
 can travel through objects to hit it's target? i mean really. come on now. where have u ever seen 
 that in a game?
  
  Furthermore, this game is highly addictive, i have no idea y they call it resistance cuz i couldn't 
 resist playin this thing for hours on end. i just cant get over the immersive and crazy world this 
 game presents. There is so little reaction time but just enough to get through the game in one 
 piece. It's what i like to call: perfect timing. ur tryin to kill one dude while avoiding another, 
 and having to worry about another one trying to bomb u. in short, this game gives u an amazing 
 adrenaline rush. The best fps ive ever played. period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abdool
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 24, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  will ....... what to say about this game. Insomniac had did it again, with games like ratchet and 
 clunk and now with resistance. I will say people must play this game before smashing buttons while 
 playing Halo3. The game's scenario is beyond imagination with an enjoyable storyline about an alien 
 race suddenly invading all of Europe and winning the fight against Mankind.
  
  The game's graphics are the best on the PS3 with Oblivion graphics of course so it is one step 
 forward for the PS3. Sounds are sure to make you enjoy the game and the storyline. If you own a 
 PS3 Then don't miss this masterpiece alongside Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anamosa41
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 23, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  This is the probably the best shooter I have played too. This game packs non-stop-action and a 
 lot of fun. If you already don't know what you do in this game I'll explain. 1930s Britain feared 
 that Russia was developing weapon of mass destruction because they weren't hearing anything at 
 all from the Russians. They were soon going to find out the truth was far worse. What was going 
 wrong was the Russians were testing a specimen that created (From living beings) a creature called 
 Chimera . To put this in a nutshell the Chimera came from Russia and invaded all of Europe in a 
 matter of weeks and the Americans try to help Britain fend off the Chimera.
  
  Now for the gameplay.
  
  Sound- The sounds in the game are superb. Every footstep has a different 
 sound depending on what you are steping on. the explosions sound realistic and the guns all have 
 sound that fit them.
  
  Graphics- The graphics a pretty good but not earth shattering. But still good. The trees move like 
 they should and the guns reflect light very well. Overall the graphics deserve a 9.
  
  Online- The online is SO good! There are so many choices you can make in it. When creating a game 
 you can choose what weapons you want, how big do you want the battlefeied, do you want just humans 
 in the game or do you want people vs chimera and stuff like that. If I could rate the online part 
 on the game it would be a 10.
  
  Overall this is a great game and I would highly recommend you buying it. The only thing I would 
 change is the cursing in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2007 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I never thought that I would have actually enjoyed this game as much as I do right now. The graphics 
 are amazing. The water looks cool, but there aren't no effects. But everything besides that looks 
 amazing. This game has the BEST looking broken glass ever lol. The sounds of bullets flying past 
 your head and explosions are amazing. The voice acting is pretty good too. The story isn't amazing, 
 but it is really good with many twists. The atmosphere in this game changes all the time from a 
 lot of heart pumping action to quiet, creepy parts of the game. The enemies are truly disgusting 
 and graphically look amazing. Most importantly, the gameplay is really good. There are no frame 
 rate issues and the hit boxes are almost perfect. The weapons in this game are well-developed and 
 looks excellent. There are many extras in this game that add to the replay value, along with the 
 online play. This game supports up to 40 people on the Playstation network! There is hardly any 
 lag in any of the games and every game is exciting. If anyone has a Playstation 3 I definitely 
 recommend that you buy this game (which pretty much everyone did lol) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best on ps3 and it makes a good start to the PS3 with months of gameplay 
 and online. This game will still holds up today all and will be remembered as one of ps3's most 
 classic games. This is one of the best games I've ever played for the PS3.
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gameplay 8.5/10- It is hard for games to have both a good story and online, most games either 
 have a good story but bad online and others a bad story but good online but this game balances 
 both out perfectly that if you don't have online it will still be a great experience. It offers 
 a fairly decent-lengthed story with a few interesting unlockables. In story mode, it is fun to 
 kill dozens of different Chimera and a pretty good story too with online that is great where you 
 get ranked according to your points earned in different modes. The online offers tons of different 
 modes which are all fun where you can be man or chimera. It runs very smoothly and just offers 
 so much of a variety of abilities and stats. However there is still room for improvement which 
 will come in Resistance 2 such as slightly lacking campaign, bosses, and enemy types, online also 
 needs a slight more variety of weapons and chimera types. 
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Graphics 8/10- People complaign they didn't take full advantage of the ps3's graphic prossosor, 
 but although dated, these graphics aren't that bad. Sure they look like advanced PS2, but this 
 was over 2 years ago, and back then the PS3 was hard to decode. It is still better than a lot of 
 current game's graphics. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound 9/10- This is also better than they say with excellent weapon and explosion sound and good 
 voice-overs and creepy music. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value 9/10- With online and trying to get all the secrets this game should last a long time. It 
 is a great game and launch title. Like I said before it is one to be remembered
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  This game should last a long time and is one of the greatest. It has one of the greatest online 
 systems and a great story and hopefully will see another in a year or so. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dylan9999
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 22, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It was made by the same makers of ratchet and clank, and you can clearly 
 see that some of the fun and game play has rubbed off onto this game. The main game has a good 
 story; of how Asia and Europe had beed infected by a virus that turned people into creatures that 
 wanted to dominate the earth and american troops are sent to England to help the English defeat 
 these cratures. You are sargent in the American army called Haig and you are infected by the virus 
 but instead of turning into a chimera you turn into a stronger form of human that can heal itself. 
 This game is quite addictive and you might find it frustrating when you keep on trying and trying 
 to beat one level without succeeding.
  this game also has an excellent multiplayer and online multiplayer.
  In other words its a game 
 worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntiTripleSix
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 5:11 pm PT
Review:  PROS
  
  - Solid Shooting Mechanics
  - Lots of Enemies
  - Cool Guns
  - Worth Beating
  - Replayable
  - Last Cutscene Has Interesting Cliffhanger (Now Can't Wait 
 For Sequel)
  - Very Smart Enemy
  - Intelligence Gathered And Documents
  - Alternate Fire On EVERY Weapon
  
  CONS
  
  - I Hate Enemies Wielding The Auger Gun
  
 - Linear Levels
  - Trial And Error
  - Few Checkpoints
  - Allies Get In The Way Alot
  - Lack Of Boss Fights
  - Lack Of Resolve (Who Are The Cloven? Why Is Hale Resistant?)
  - Vehicle 
 Sequences Aren't The Greatest
  - Strictly A Run-And-Gun Shooter
  
  MULTIPLAYER
  
  + Lots Of Maps
  + Challenging
  + Fun Modes
  
  - Little Time To Text Chat
  - Lack Of 40 
 Player Servers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trker91
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 21, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I just got around to finishing Resistance: Fall of Man and figured I might as well give a review. 
 Overall it was a pleasant experience and a solid all around game. The Positive: Graphics are top 
 quality and the art style is refreshing ( think call of duty meets sci-fi ) . Solid shooter with 
 good multi-player. The Negative: Story presentation never pulled me in. Resistance is the story 
 of Nathan Hale, a US soldier fighting in Europe against a mysterious species called Chimera. The 
 Chimera are spreading across Europe and Asia so the US sends forces to Europe to help the Brits 
 make a last stand. In this alternate universe WWII never happens. Game-play is solid with its share 
 of good and bad. Your main opposition ( the main Chimera soldiers ) is fast, aggressive, and fun 
 to duel with. Enemy heavy equipment ( tank like stuff ) are cool. You will contend with more Chimera 
 during the game and they can best be described as fluff. One enemy ( Engineers or something like 
 that ) has the gameplay equivalent of zombies. They move slow and a fast melee is all you need 
 to kill them as they line up to walk into the butt of your rifle. You will carry a vast assortment 
 of weapons with limited ammunition. This will force you to Change your weapons often in order to 
 use the right weapon for the job at hand. Your never just going through the motions in Resistance 
 as your enemy will keep you on your toes. If you waste the ammo of proprietary weapons like the 
 auger ( ammo passes through solid surface ) you can find yourself in trouble. Overall firefights 
 are fun and engaging. The health system tends to slow the action a bit. You have four small units 
 of energy that will regenerate when partially spent, but when fully spent can only be replaced 
 by picking up canisters. These health units are small and go fast in combat so you will need to 
 look around for canisters after clearing each area. You will die more than a few times during the 
 campaign. If you make a mistake its hard to recover, but the checkpoint system is forgiving. Can 
 you see the catch 22 here? The lack of health brings great firefights, but slows you from getting 
 to your next. The story of Resistance is told mostly by narrated stills. A good concept that is 
 poorly executed. Why, you ask? The narator is an English woman who's soft voice belongs in a children's 
 story. Linda Hunt from God of War she is not! Overall the story just didn't pull me in and make 
 me want to find out more. The musical score fits with the gameplay and visual style. In the end 
 The graphics and gameplay are good enough to make this a definite recommendation. The campaign 
 has replay value and online multi-player could certainly pull you in for at least a short time. 
 The story is the most notable variable that keeps Resistance from greatness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nflking4691
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 21, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  I think that resistance was an all around great game. Ive played alot of shooters in my day and 
 I think its better than gears of war. The campaign for resistance is about 3 times longer than 
 gears, and its more exciting. In resistance you get thrown into emerse battlefields fighting off 
 the chamera. After I played gears at my friends house i was dissipointed, so we went back to playing 
 vegas. It DOES matter though, which kind of shooter you like. Resistance is a 1st person shooter, 
 and Gears is a 3rd person shooter. Even though they are very different, I found Resistance to be 
 more exciting and fun. They both have nice graphics ,but cmon the 40 player online, and great story 
 in Resistance makes it a kick ass game, especially being a launch title! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cutmymilk411
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 20, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is an amazing feat of the potential of the PS3. This game reminds us why 
 we shelled out 600+ dollars for a game console. Its hard to believe the developers of the Ratchet 
 and Clank series could bring us a game with plenty of visceral action and blood and gore with room 
 left for an amazing story. Its true this game borrows from other games like Call Of Duty and Half 
 Life but with no disrespect for these games Resistance often surpasses them. Resistance starts 
 with an opening cinematic explaining a mysterious alien race known as the Chimera and how they 
 are spreading like a plague all over Europe in a past where WWII never happened. The game takes 
 place just a little while after the real WWII ended. This is where the main character (a soldier 
 from the American army sent to England to help assist in the ever gloom-ing battle against the 
 Chimera) named Nathan Hale comes in. This is also where the game starts (and lasts a nice 15 hours) . 
 The multiplayer is fast and frenetic Death-match style with a gaggle of modes and character customization 
 options. It also happens to support up to 40 players. There are two distinct races to play from 
 including the humans and the chimera with their own distinct abilities. In the end, Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is a great PS3 game every one should own even if they dont like fps's. Although not 
 everything with this game is perfect as the could have spruced up the graphics, tweaked the sound 
 and fleshed the story a little more. All in all this game is superb and a must own
  game for the PS3! -cutmymilk411 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tonychicago
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 20, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  great game you know what i mean tons of fun you know what i mean worth every penny that you pay 
 you know what i mean its a must have ps3 game you know what i mean you can just fall in love with 
 this game you know what i mean the graphics are superb and i mean good in this game you know what 
 i mean sound is great too you know what i mean gameplay is superb too its so worth the price you 
 pay for this game you know what i mean its not a superb hard game you know what i mean but what 
 ever its still a solid game you know what i mean its maybe an 9 hour long game you know what i 
 mean but what ever its still fun whale its lasted you know what i mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_ano
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 19, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  this really is a great game to play. having a interesting story to work with the game really keeps 
 you playing to see what will happen. at the start of each level there is a woman who gives a brief 
 description of what happens in the level but doesn't exactly tell you. she has obviously survived 
 the attack and is telling the story which you play out. each time she speaks she tells a little 
 more of the story but still doesn't give away the big secret until you actually come across it 
 in the game itself.
  
  the graphics are quite good and the characters are very well detailed, the levels are quite long 
 with a lot of objects placed all over the maps. all the maps are pretty well laid out giving you 
 plenty of places to get cover. overall the graphics and detail are very good but still lack the 
 shading that gears of war had.
  
  there is a lot of great weapons like the usual machine guns and rocket launcher to the auger which 
 shoots through walls. the best thing about all the weapons in this game is they all have a second 
 function other than shoot, 1 of the best being the tag that the bullseye has, you shoot the tag 
 onto an enemy and when you shoot that gun all the bullets will lock onto the enemy.
  
  game play is very easy to get used to and is just the basic ps2 fps controls R1 and L1 to fire. 
 the ai are extremely good in this they take a fierce amount of shots to take down and to make it 
 even harder the ai are smart! they will take cover when needed they will rush you and will hit 
 you with their gun. there is a good few different types of enemy's the main 1 you come across are 
 the hybrids which just have a bullseye and hedgehog grenades. along with the usual running around 
 you can take control of a few vehicles like a tank and truck with a heavy gun mounted on the back. 
 unfortunately you don't find these lying around in the online games.
  
  playing online is a lot of fun. when you get into big games where there is just killing all over. 
 online play is very hard sinse there is a lot of people there who have been playing a lot. it takes 
 some time to get the hang of it and once you do its fun to be earning medals and badges 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousmatty
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:57 pm PT
Review:  This may be the single greatest launch game. microsoft had halo and nintendo always had a mario 
 or zelda to launch and this is right up there with them. Resistance goes back to some old school 
 shooting with all the bells and whistles of the amazing machine known as the ps3. I shutter to 
 think of what games will be in 10 years from now when the ps3 is still running strong. A must have 
 in the ps3 collection and an instant classic. The gameplay is simple and the amount of action running 
 smoothly on screen at once is a glimspe into the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hells_Sentry
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 5:51 am PT
Review:  One of the few great games for the Play station 3, this provides amazing game play and incredible 
 physics. The number of possibilities at hand when the player fully understands the laws of the 
 weapons in the game are endless. From taking cover behind your auger shield, to burning the skin 
 right off your enemies with an air-fuel grenade, this game offers endless variety and re-play value. 
 The graphics and sound are virtually flawless providing an intimate gaming experience. However, 
 the multi player is a bit lack lustre. The larger maps are a treat to experience a very large field, 
 however, finding a full game to experience the ultimate shoot-em up mulitplayer is difficult to 
 find. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sedin44
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 16, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  Resistance is an amazing shooter that will keep you playing for hours. With its struggling game 
 library, the PS3 is in desperate need of some strong and entertaining games. In this sense Resistance 
 does not fail. To begin with the single player mode is very well done. The Chimeras have pretty 
 decent AI and can pose a significant challenge and some of the harder modes. The game also has 
 plenty of good weapons. The typical shotgun, machine gun and boozoka as well as some more interesting 
 ones. One such weapon is the bullseye that can lock on to enemies and take out enemies quite easily. 
 The story itself is also pretty good; however, it often feels like a COD or Medal of Honor with 
 an alien substituting the enemies. The multiplayer is the best part of this game. There is a nice 
 variety of styles as well as sizes. Some are all out blood baths such as nottingham while others 
 are much larger and require a little more stealth. You also can choose to play in 3 modes, ffa, 
 team deathmatch and team objective. Overall all 3 modes are great and add more variety to an already 
 great game.
  
  Graphics wise this game is strong, especially for a launch title. The game looks amazing as it 
 plays in 720p. Overall this game is amazing for a launch title and one that no PS3 gamer should 
 miss out on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mightyboosh13
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jun 15, 2007 3:48 am PT
Review:  This is a very decent FPS though it is slightly generic and really does feel shallow at times.
 
  The game has some amazing weapons that are a lot of fun to use. I'm not sure I like the way the 
 weapons are handed to you in the single player but non the less they are neat looking and most 
 are very useful.
  
  For me as with many this game looks and even more so feels very similar to COD but with aliens. 
 Bad thing it is not. Does it work, yes and no. The look of the games at times is breath-taking 
 and other times some things just look plain ugly.
  The single player is a mixed affair. It starts fairly decent then loses its way in the middle and 
 then picks up towards the end. Its a decent length game and just right for casuals.
  In comparison to something like COD2/3, I'd say I prefered RFOM's single player to Call OF Duty 
 3's single player but not as much as Call of Duty 2.
  The single player is a great step for the sequel but no opening day classic like (Half Life, Halo 
 CE, Perfect Dark, MoH or Far Cry.)
  
  Multiplayer is a mixed bag and in my opinion it is gonna take any newbie sometime with RFOM before 
 they get into or enjoy it online. Its fairly crazy and not in a (Unreal/Quake) cool way but a bit 
 of a mess.
  The maps are fairly decent but nothing amazing by any standards. Many people playing and loving 
 RFOM online are delighting it so much due to their skills at the game and pawning eveybody else.
 
  
  The online section needs balancing and maybe shifting to 16-24 player or a re-direction in game 
 modes and map styles.
  Anybody playing CS, Unreal, Quake, Battlefield, Halo 2, COD, Socom among others will see that RFOM 
 does need a whole lot of tweaks.
  I'm sure the sequel will have multiplayer improvements.
  
  Overall its a well-rounded game.
  If you love FPS this is a must own game.
  I'm a little 
 negative on the online affairs but thats coz I found the game un-inviting and fairly in-balanced. 
 I'm sure others will disagree but anybody new to the scene or late to RFOM's party will find the 
 online section quite annoying and difficult. Good start though... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delol
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 1:33 am PT
Review:  Gameplay -near perfection .The only if is the shortage of ammunition in some parts of the game
 
  
  Graphics- excellent for a launching title yet we must expect better from a next gen console .This 
 is in fact one of the biggest problems of PS3 :so far there are no games that full fill the console 
 capacities
  
  Sound- the best part of the game absolutely imaculated. It give us the will to instantly go the 
 near acessory shop and buy the best sound system avaylable
  
  Value- If you are a shooter fan you must have it , even if you dont like too much the gender go 
 for it and admire the remarkable capacities of the ps3
  
  Negative-I confess that i was expecting more ,an heavenly touch, that could launch this game to 
 the AAA hall of fame: i have the impression that if insoniac goes to a seqel then we can have here 
 an &acute;&acute; Halo killer`` 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AncientDragon4
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 14, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  This is a game you need to start your collection for PS3 it has good
  graphics and sound. The Single player is awesome and Online
  even better 32 people can play Also 
 has a Clan Option and
  Buddy list etc. And you can design how you look to. Good maps
  also gamemodes Cooperative Mode you and your friend can
  play together singer player. Deathmatch 
 team deathmatch
  meltdown breach capture the flag and conversion. It also
  have ranks online. Its a good game for people just starting
  out in gaming and for the advance 
 user. It has Mature
  rating though. But good game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SumerianDaemon
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  Giving you just a little taste of what the PlayStation 3 can do, this game is pure fun. The graphics 
 are more than up to date, in fact stunning! Campaign mode lived up to the expectations and i can 
 say that the cooperative mode has offered me and my friends alot of fun! I ve finished the game 
 4 times until now and im still not bored to play the stages again!
  
  Online multiplayer via console was a new experience for me and resistance made it wonderfull. Many 
 modes many servers NO lag! Note that my connection is only 1MBs.
  
  The only negative point which i expected in advance was the use of a controller for an FPS.... We 
 need keaboard and mouse support not only for gameplay but also for communication! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Galaxybear
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 13, 2007 2:49 pm PT
Review:  FPS's is one ofthose gaming categories that gets flooded with entries, far too many of which are 
 crap. Every now and then an FPS comes along that gets everything right, adn this is one of them.
 
  
  The graphics look great, and actual envvioprments (blown to bits) always look better then fake 
 ones IMO
  
  Sound is convincing, nuff said
  
  Gun selection is not just fun but actually well balanced, making multiplayer a blast, meanwhile 
 single player is stands alone with a story line ludicrous enough that being a sole gunman seems 
 conceivable but interesting enough that I enjoy the cutscenes, alot.
  
  Basically the games nails everything an FPS should have without adding any new gameplay mechanics 
 that would hinder replay value but using the traditional elemnts to achieve a novel experience, 
 becasue apart from the excellent gun roster, the story allows you to feel like a BA MF while blowning 
 away enemies with a far better AI then I have come to expect, but justifiable dumber than a person, 
 beacuse they aren't people, in a bombed out england of antiquety. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slayervorge3000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Now I do not own a PlayStation3 and I don't own this game but I have played it at a friends how 
 and this game rocks. I still haven't finished it yet but pretty darn close.
  
  The Graphics in this game are amazing. Its fun to watch whats next in the movies in this game. 
 The sound is good and the gameplay is good. Its just an awesome game for an awesome console (wait 
 I still this 360 is better though) .
  
  I just have to say that this game is a must play game. Don't have a PS3 then bug your friends mom 
 to play there game or whatever. This game is the coolest and the best from Sony, never knew that 
 Sony make games so good like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricardo_gil
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 13, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man changes the course of history in witch World War II never happened!! Instead, 
 Europe has been taken over by monsters witch origin is unknown, named Chimerians.
  You play as an American Sergeant, named Nathan Hale, sent over to England to help turn the tide 
 of war. The storyline is good. It will induce you until the end (witch was quite poor actually...) . 
 The storyline is just something to back the game up and to avoid making it boring while you play 
 trough the campaign.
  The gameplay is very good, a little hard for starters but nothing that one can get used too. Some 
 basic functions aren't available in the game tough, (like hiding behind cover and sprinting, yet, 
 this last function is available in online mode) something that sometimes would come in handy, especially 
 because there are lots of Chimerians to run and hide from... The SixAxis wireless motion is also 
 compatible with the game in some small occasions but that make the game look even sharper. Those 
 occasions are, for example, if you get caught by flames you need to shake the controller as fast 
 as you can to put these out. Something small but interesting that gives you the feeling you are 
 the one inside the game. Insomniac also made a great job with the game weapons. They are very unique 
 weapons, and those common to most FPS (First Person Shooter) games, like the Shotgun and the Rocket 
 Launcher. But other weapons are well designed and very creative. There is a weapon that is able 
 to fire radiation shots trough walls and every time the radiation burst crosses a wall it becomes 
 stronger!! Then there is also a weapon that fires electric beams, very useful in close quarters 
 combat. Then there are the usual carbines and snipers too. All weapons have also a secondary fire. 
 The Chimerians main weapon secondary fire is a marker that if attached to a body, all bullets that 
 are fired will go right at the marker by themselves. Something very useful but sometimes useless 
 because if the enemy hides behind cover in the meantime, all shots will drive directly at the protection. 
 All weapons will be of use during the game, but its up to the players to find what kind of weapons 
 they like and use them wisely. Mastering all weapons will be something that will happen throughout 
 the game.
  Graphics look great!! These really are the next-generation graphics, even tough the game can only 
 offer HD 720p image resolution, these are already superb graphics, and there will most likely be 
 no need for the HD 1080p image resolution.
  The sound is what you would expect from a FPS (First Person Shooter) . There are some good sounds 
 effects and voices (Nathan Hale doesn't speak much actually) , but nothing out of the ordinary here.
 
  The game A. I. (Artificial Intelligence) is above the average. Enemies know how to flank, take 
 cover, flush you out (mostly using grenades) and retreat from battle. They will do everything possible 
 to keep themselves alive and to take you and your team soldiers out of action, even if that means 
 one Chimerian must make a suicide attack to gain ground to his comrades.
  But where Resistance really has done a great work is in its replay value!! The game offer a 1 player 
 campaign mode, a 2-4 players campaign mode and a 2-40 players online mode!!
  The online mode seems to run smoothly even with a maximum of 40 players at the same time!! The 
 game modes are the usual ones you find on a FPS (First Person Shooter) game: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, 
 Capture the Flag, Assault... Players can also create their own unique characters and they will 
 eventually earn new items by wining some matches online. They can also create or join clans, earn 
 medals and eventually raise in the ranking.
  Resistance is betting a lot on the online mode and to prove that, there are the updates that Insomniac 
 Games is making, that offer new kinds of game modes and that fix glitches (that are very rare) .
 
  Resistance is a game worth buying, either if you are a fan or not. It will keep you entertained 
 for a long time, something that the Chimerians are very good at...
  
  Name: Resistance: Fall of Man.
  Developer: Insomniac Games.
  First Release Date: Nov 11, 2006
 
  First Release Region: Japan
  Distribution: Retail 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillet00
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 13, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  I did like this game, i mean for one of the first on the PS3 it was good, but not what i would 
 expect from a 2005 first person shooter. It's fun but its the same thing though the whole game 
 shoot, reload, repeat, i need something that has more deph tto it personally. i love first person 
 shooters but this one was out there and didn't really grip the player in anyway. the only thing 
 that i like abuot the game was the lenght, it took some hours to beat the dan thing but it wasnt 
 hard to beat when you got there. Ok so it took me like 20 minutes to beat the last level but that 
 it and thats because i suck at levels that make you shoot things that don't shoot at you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FollowTheLeader
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  The cutscenes look nice enough. But the In game graphics for the most part lacks the wow factor. 
 Its just fine, no more no less. A little disappointing for a hit NEXT GEN game. Physics are little, 
 to non existant here.
  
  Gameplay is good. Weapons are the highlight of it. Good number, good feel and design. The A. I. 
 is impressive, and will give you a run for your money. They duck and run, dont go down easy.... so 
 you will use your weapons! Sound flows with the overall theme and game. Few vehicle missions, the 
 jeep one especially fine. Drives well.
  
  This is not a story FPS, although there is one, and there are cutcenes, they are insignificant 
 for the most part. Multiplayer is the meat of the game here. There are a good number of players 
 online, so it makes the game more fun. There are no slowdowns, everything runs smooth. A lot of 
 modes, including the favorite deathmatch and CTF. Some character custtomization. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordank23
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  First all, just to clear the air I have the Xbox360, the ps3 and wii cause I'm a dork. Ok, so I'm 
 not trying to push any systems just so you know. Now first off I think this is the best FPS of 
 all Generations other the PC. I'm REALLY REALLY enjoying this title, I'm about 15 hours in, I'm 
 not sure how long it is but I feel I'm getting towards the end soon. The game begins with a very 
 interesting opening story wise, the story grabbed me right from the get-go. I don't think I need 
 to explain it as It's been explained a million times. Lets just say its an alternate universe 1950's. 
 A virus (like the resident evil virus) spread in europe and it has spread acrossed europe. That's 
 the quick of it. Here is what is interesting about Fall of Man. It starts out boring, at least 
 it did for me. Read on.
  
  The first level's are what I find to be sort of weak. About 20mins in and I was thinking to myself, 
 man this is not so great. The level design and the feeling of WW2 been there done that was just 
 hard not to dismiss, then it happens. I won't tell you what for spoilers sake, but an event happens 
 and from there on in you pick up a new weapon and the levels become smart and fun. The story picks 
 up and you are on a ride you won't wanna get of. The weapons as said before are FUN. There different 
 and they keep things interesting. THe level design is FUN and interesting. There are choke holds 
 in levels that will give you a bit of a challenge and then there are these open ended area's that 
 are pure cinematic bliss.
  
  IT is true that this game feels like its a mix of Call of Duty, Halo, Half-life 1 and 2 and even 
 Doom 3. However, for me anyway it doesn't feel like little parts put together but an experience 
 well blended. I've not had this much FUN for whatever reason in those games as I've had with this. 
 REALLY. It has that IT factor for me, perhaps its the Design and Story that gets me. I really like 
 the setting and it makes the whole difference for me. I think its also the old stype run and GUN, 
 yet the weapon selection brings a new sort of tactile aproach while run and gunning.
  
  The gfx start out as EH. This is what i mean, when you first start playing you WILL NOT go OMG 
 AMAZING. You will go, there cool but nothing great. Then the game gets going and they GFX get better 
 and better as you progress. It REALLy comes down to cities not looking as good as Indoors and grassy 
 areas. Its the buildings that just don't work well GFX in this title, but the lighting is good 
 to GREAT. The smoke/fog is GREAT. The setting and design is AWESOME. Little things pop out at you 
 after playing for awhile, like destructible enviroments. In many games its stuck in your face, 
 features such as. COVER, and DESTRUCTABLE enviroments. In Fall of man it's not, its just part of 
 the world. You will notice buildings and windows and barracades falling apart from gunfire only 
 after playing for awhile. It's little things like that, that make the game interesting from a immersion 
 standpoint. Perhaps this review is a little scatter brained, because Resistance is hard to explain 
 for me. It is A Generic no frills run and gun FPS. Yet, its much more then that, but that much 
 more is that IT factor that can't be described. It is not TRUELY next gen, but its not LAST GEN 
 either it's middle gen :) . However, while playing I NEVER SAID man I wish they added this or MAN 
 I wish they took that out, it has that perfect balance, atleast for me. Look, gears is great, its 
 def next gen in many ways, but a FPS will always be an FPS, andyou can't change that. Resistance 
 is GREAT but it too is a FPS a more old school FPS but it is a FPS. I loved Gears I love this but 
 for whatever reason I love this a bit more. Quickly Multiplayer is not for me in these types of 
 games. I know that people will probably love it but I'm more into the tactile multiplayer games 
 like R6: Vegas on the 360. I've not played around enough with Mplayer to rightfully right any review 
 on it.
  
  Finally that IT might also be the controller, as I'm looing at my 360 controller and my ps controller 
 I grew up more on the PS controller and I'm finding I'm enjoying shooters more on it. I'm not trying 
 to get into that boring ps vs xbox fight because right now 360 has MANY more and MUCH better games 
 overall, but the 1 GREAT game on the ps3 is this game and its better thenm most 360 games righ 
 tnow for me. Until mass effect (plug plug LOL) .
  
  O. K. finally second try. In closing, RFOM is the best next-gen FPS in my opinion. Good-great gfx, 
 GOOD- Great music and SOUND. Good-Great Story. Good-great Control. GREAT Level Design. Basically 
 is as well balanced as they come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heydawg321
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 11, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man review by HeyDawg321
  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  
  I will split my review 
 into the single player portion and the online portion.
  
  Single Player
  ------------------
  Gameplay - This game plays fantastic. The control is smoothe and fluid and 
 it runs at a locked 60FPS (Frames per second) i'm told. You shake the SIxaxis when enemies grab 
 you in order to rifle-butt them off of you, which is kind of cool, the same works for when your 
 on fire. Throwing grenades is a little awkward I find as the grenades tend to overshoot wherever 
 you think they will go. To compensate for this, I tend to aim too close and than they don't do 
 anything either. It's one of the few gripes I have with the game.
  
  Graphics - The game looks amazing and runs amazing due to the 60FPS. The effects are really nice 
 and the rag doll physics when you hit an enemy with a LAARK missle (Resistance's rocket launcher) 
 is really cool and kind of funny. You will walk through places and be able to push objects around 
 or break things entirely. The character models are also quite nice. However, it suffers from some 
 muddy textures up close. This brings it down a notch.
  
  Sound - The game sounds really well, the explosions and the gunfire is nice. However, the game 
 suffers from a lack of explosiveness as I put it. Even though everything sounds spot on, it really 
 lacks that really defining sound that makes it really feel like your firing that gun/weapon. Few 
 games are able to do this and overall the sound is good, but not tremendous.
  
  Value
  --------
  
  To understand the value of this game, I'm assuming your reading this to find out 
 whether this game is worth a $60.00 purchase, and it most definately is. The single player campaign 
 is fairly long for a first person shooter, and it gives you incentive to play it again as once 
 you complete it, you unlock new weapons and you have the option to try and find all the intel pieces.
 
  
  If that's not exactly your cup of tea, you can go online. Online functionality for this game is 
 great. You play in fast and frenzied matchups where you shoot first, shoot some more and than probably 
 die. It's pretty hectic, and you kind of wish it had some more strategy to it, but it's fun as 
 hell nonetheless. The online portion does have clan support, although I find that EVERYONE is in 
 a clan, and not many people do much talking, so it's rather pointless. I have logged in over 50 
 hours of online play and I plan to play more. It keeps track of all your stats and I recommend 
 you go to MyResistance. net if your serious about the online play.
  
  Tilt
  ---- I gave this game a 9 for tilt as it is a cool shooter with a fairly good story. The story 
 is original and the shooting is fun, but it does nothing special to make it worth too far over 
 a 9.1. However what it does do, it does very well and this is the MUST HAVE game of the PS3. Games 
 being likened to Halo 3 are all too often, but I like to think this is hopefully PS3's Halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjyunaff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of man. An idea that man might one day become extinct. Although this is a frequently 
 played on subject, this game takes this theme to the next level. With the genius masterminds working 
 over at the headquarters of Insomniac Games, these skilled developers have successfully put together 
 a game that revolves around originality and a whole new system of an action packed thriller game. 
 They use new weapons and new monsters to kick up the intensity level. They seem to creatively link 
 one thing to another which makes the plot line even more fun to follow along with. This game takes 
 Call of Duty and combines it with an alien shooter to make a key element in video gaming, which 
 is something different. This being exactly what it does, it proves to be a great lineup in the 
 beginning of great games to come to the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bombbay12345
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 9, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Did you think you had to wait years until you get a amazing app? Not so, PS3 owners got theirs 
 right when they purchased their PS3. Resistance is by far the most impressive PS3 game yet and 
 delivers amazing single player (and Co-op) , revolutionary multiplayer, and stellar gameplay. However 
 it's not like many other shooters, it seperates itself from the pack. It may look like any other 
 Call of Duty or Medal of Honor game however your not fighting nazis. In July 1951, the Chimera 
 have overran Europe. Originating from Russia, the Chimera have moved into western Europe infecting 
 it's people with a deadly virus. This virus changes them into monsters... with guns. WWII never 
 occurs but cities still fall. In the middle of this you take on the role of Nathan Hale, an American 
 who has just joined British's last defence. However Nathan hides something from his british friends 
 and attempts to uncover the chimeran secrets with the british. So begins Fall of Man's storyline 
 (a bit of a... complex one) with a narrative with talented voice-actors, detailed stills of events 
 that occur, and multiple cutscenes. The plot dosn't have the most surprising story (in fact it's 
 really predictable, think of all the alien movies and games you've seen) although it plays out 
 well and has a few interesting characters. By the time you get into the game in it's 13 hour or 
 so length you'll probably be compelled to find out what happens at the end (even if it's a little 
 predictable and confusing) . The first reason why the plot works well is because of the atmosphere. 
 The world around Hale is creepy and it has a few little scares and dark hallways. Resistance keeps 
 you alert at all times because of this and you'll never be able to relax. As the farther into the 
 game you get the farther away you get from a typical human world. The atmosphere and plot are made 
 even better because of the graphics and although they aren't the most amazing they are quite impressive. 
 Frame-rate dosn't fall anywhere no matter how many chimerans are on the screen at once (and believe 
 me... theres a lot) . Plus, there are millions of different kinds of interactive enemies and allies 
 such as the many different kind of chimeran and different soldiers, tanks, stalkers, mines plus 
 explosions, debris and plenty of other things that occur with crazy frequency. Every chapter is 
 different too, you can always tell what chapter your in even if the texture isn't top notch (even 
 though it's still impressive) . Of course, the gameplay is the most important part of Resistance, 
 and Resistance has that covered.
  Resistance is a lot like Timesplitter in gameplay. The enemies are quick and they test your reflexes 
 and how well you can cover yourself. The controls work well and even though there isn't much of 
 the motion sensors they still work well too. Insomniac also shows how heavy and light objects are 
 in the game as tables and chairs can be easily knocked over and maybe even used for some cover 
 (although it's pretty bad) . Some of the sixaxis controls however do work well. Such as shaking 
 off a menial or fanning of fires on your face. Of course though the real kick-ass part of the game 
 is the weapons. IT'S DEVELOPED BY INSOMNIAC, what do you expect? No matter if it's the British 
 standered gun or some crazy alien weapon that can shoot through walls there is always something 
 to shoot at. And even better, you'll have to use all your weapons at some point or another. Expect 
 a sniper rifle, a machine gun that's bullets bounce of surfaces, a standered assault rifle and 
 even a mine launcher that shoots out organic explody balls (yep) . Although, these weapons would 
 be all put to waste unless you didn't have something to shoot at. The enemies in Resistance are 
 tough and the AI can be challenging at times. The AI reminded me a little bit of FEAR. The AI can 
 take cover, change positions, crawl on walls and team up with other monsters to kill you and your 
 british friends. Even though the AI isn't as amazing as FEAR, their reactions are timed well and 
 work to their advantage. A few of the early levels however have the AI waiting to get shot at though. 
 As I mentioned before there are a huge variety of enemies too, from creepy crawlys to giant flying 
 octupus' (yep) . The multiplayer just might gurantee a perfect ten out of this one because it's 
 simply incredible. You can choose from multiple locations and enjoy a 40 player game with-out any 
 frame rate issues. You can even scale down the size if you want a different maximum. You are able 
 to choose from the humans and the chimeran and each have a different unique ability. You can also 
 change the rules to make it more enjoyable to your taste. Although there is more than just custamazation 
 and 40 person play, it was crazy maps, trackable stats, rankings, clans with up to 200 members, 
 and several different modes. It's kinda like Ratchet &amp; Clank if you think about it. The different 
 modes include deathmatch, breach, meltdown, team deathmatch, conversion, and capture the flag. 
 Friends can even play Co-op on single player too by split-screen or play up to a four player match 
 on one system too.
  Resistance ended up being an amazing time however there were a few... disapointments. Sometimes 
 when your done fighting to get to the next part of fighting you have to walk there and sometimes 
 it takes a little while, it just gets a little boring however it's not something severe. Besides 
 that it may give you a breather it seems to extend the stage for longer than it should be. Another 
 thing is that the vehicles are so incredibly powerful that I've found that I've never died in a 
 vehicle stage. The vehicle your in just seems to stomp over the enemie's face with-out taking any 
 damage. It's hard to even die sometimes. Even if your in a vehicle and your fighting another vehicle 
 of the same kind you can just murder it with ease. Including the fact of off-line co-op and the 
 ending disapointment (a la Halo 2) this is less than perfect game. However, Resistance dosn't have 
 to be perfect to be fun, and it is fun... a lot of fun. Resistance is crazy ride from start to finish. 
 Epic boss battles, crazy weapons, changing scenery, and simple cinematics are a few of the reasons 
 Resistance is as good as it is. Although above everything, the multiplayer stands out the most. 
 This game is must have for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesslyssiee
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 9, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is/was a launch game for the PS3. Everyone knows that. It; s a first person shooter that 
 takes place in the times of World War 2. Suddenly, the Chimera invaded earth and you play as an 
 American soldier. The story isn't all that great and seems like an excuse to have you kick some 
 alien butt with a crazy, bulky, and satisfying collection of weapons. The single player campaign 
 isn't going to revolutionize the FPS industry by any means. However, it takes elements from other 
 first person shoorers that made them successful and makes them just as good, if not, better. The 
 online is fabulous, but the occasional disconnections can be a nuisance. Minor things aside, Resistance 
 delivers what you would want in an FPS. Good graphics, intense gunfighting, and good multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samleon05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:46 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man is the PS3's debut game. It shows off the amazing graphics we look forward 
 to seeing on the PS3 but graphics are one thing, just what makes this game so good. Well it bring 
 amazing AI, deadly weapons and fast paced constant action. You'll be thrown into large scale battles 
 that seem impossible as you are only one guy but with the unique weapons at your disposable you 
 will make it through. The AI is amazing as they work together to make sure you die, they hit you 
 when up close, shoot at you the moment they spot you and use cover as well. The controls are quite 
 simple and take little to no effort to master for a satisfying play through the game. What's an 
 FPS without online, up to 40 players and with that many and the guns in this game you know you'll 
 be killing and getting killed alot. At first i was sceptic about online but it does grow on you 
 especially when you get tired of the solo campaign. The solo campaign does offer some length because 
 you will die a few times and it will force you to thing differently when playing the stages. At 
 most i'd say it'd take maybe 10-12hrs counting death rate but you'll probably play it over for 
 the unlockable weapons you get. I'll only mention my favorite gun the AUGER (as not to spoil it 
 for those who didn't play it) that shoots through solid surfaces and become more powerful passing 
 through them. it also shoots an energy shield which offers protection and a good firing spot. With 
 all that i think Resistance is an incredibly detailed, action filled FPS that should be picked 
 up by all PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: canteenssol
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistence is good game especially for being one of the first out for PS3, but it could be better 
 in the multiplayer aspect. The multiplayer aspect is also lacking because of PS3's poor use of 
 this feature through out the system. it could be better with also a little bit more in-depth story. 
 It seems the same story just keeps pushing on throughout the game nothing ever changes from cut 
 scene to cut scene. The game also seems to be missing the fun aspect during multiplayer, as in 
 its gets old fast. Also the quality of the maps are not that all impressive. As far in weapon in 
 the game there is nice varietion, they did a real good job with those. This game is good if you 
 like big run and gun type battles, espcially online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _DeatH-MetaL_
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 9:00 am PT
Review:  this game is simply amazing for a launch title! this game is a must have for ps3 or fps addicts. 
 the single player is great and does a great job to get you familiar with the controls and gets 
 you new outfits for your online account. the single player is average.
  
  now the multiplayer is where the game shines 40 players online at once for a match!! and its so 
 far never lagged for me which is amazing. create your own games or go on ranked or custom games. 
 ranked games help you higher your rank thus earning you more outfits which makes it more addictive. 
 Definitely to go in the top ten awesome FPS online games!
  
  Sound: amazing hardly any music but i think that helps. you can hear the chimera roaring which 
 is awesome.
  
  Graphics: these are awesome but nothing that really blows you away. partly because developers are 
 still not too familiar with the power. but there spot on.
  
  Gameplay: wow its simply awesome and addictive! online will blow you away and will keep you hooked 
 for a long time
  
  overall if you have the ps3 and dont hate FPS too much you should definitely buy this 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  In Resistance: Fall of Man you are Nathan Hale an american soldier sent to help stop the chimera 
 invasion. It all began in Russia somehow the chimera began speading at a very rapid rate and soon 
 controlled all of russian territory but then the invasion stopped and all was quiet for a while. 
 As everyone else prepared suddenly in a single strike chimera invaded all of Europe and took it 
 in little time with this great offensive the world was at war. People thought the UK was safe for 
 now but they soon found otherwise your story begins as american forces who due to isolating themselves 
 know little to nothing about the threat of the chimera storm into the UK to help what little forces 
 are left and push back the chimera.
  
  The story of Resistance is mediocre at best it is the classic world war II-ish scenario exept instead 
 of battleing soldiers and tanks you are shooting chimeran mutants and horrible creatures. Although 
 the story may be fairly limp and very mysterious to no suprise when you are shooting, smashing, 
 or blowing up chimera it is still a blast. Like most FPS's the storyline has little to no effect 
 on the gameplay since all you really are doing is killing things without mercy and enjoying it.
 
  
  Now onto the important part of Resistance, the gameplay as you traverse the various levels of the 
 campaign you will find yourself with a unique arsenal with many guns that all have there own uses 
 and occasions. The wide variety of weapons to choose from and blast your enemies with adds alot 
 of entertainment into the game from chargeing in with your shotgun or machine gun, snipeing off 
 foes with your sniper rifle, or casual bombarding your enemies with flames, grenades, or auto-turrets 
 it keeps quite a significant amount of fun. Not only do you have you guns to combat with every 
 weapons you can use you also can hit them with the but of your gun to knock them off balance and 
 do a nice chunk of damage, also you have a decent variety of grenades to blow up your foes all 
 with different uses.
  
  Graphics in Resistance look fantastic as you might have guessed, showing what the early release 
 titles on the PS3 are capable of it gives you great landscapes, realistic violence and models, 
 and a wide variety of other impressive features. If you are looking for an FPS with next-gen graphics 
 you have found one although me myself could care less about graphics in most cases it doesn't mean 
 that i don't like to see the amazing PS3 graphics at work. Although it does not provide multiplayer 
 without online capabilities the multiplayer online is very good and fun with the wide selection 
 of well made levels and arsenal.
  
  If you are looking for a fun FPS with great graphics and good entertainment value then this game 
 is for you although if you are looking for a good storyline and interesting characters i would 
 say look elsewhere. Resistance: Fall of Man like the usual FPS is made for a decent campaign and 
 good multiplayer with great graphics and it delivers quite well i rate it 8.6 out of 10 and if 
 you have a PS3 i would suggest that you try out Resistance: Fall of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Men lets you play as Nathan Hale, you'll be defending England in the game as 
 a evil alien race called the Chimera will be attacking Earth.
  
  World War II didn't happen, the invasion of aliens did, lets get it on!
  
  Gameplay/AI:
  
 Insomniac Games (maker of Ratchet and Clank) made some great weird weapons for us, you'll get you're 
 basic SPAS 12 and Assault rifle you'd expect from Earth, and the weirdest gun you'd expect from 
 other planets, so you get a gun which can shoot thru walls, a mine that shoots hundreds of needles 
 in any direction and a gun that makes a shield where a few select bullets can penetrate thru.
 
  
  This game has alot of CoD, it has lots of teammates running around you and they stand up for theirself 
 and don't die that easily, the same doesn't count for Chimera, they'll duck but won't step away 
 from grenades, they'll mostly take strafes in all directions possible to dodge bullets, but will 
 die alot eitherway.
  
  Their are also vehicles, jeeps are bullet-resistant and tanks are impossible to destroy.
  
 
  Graphics:
  The games detail is amazing, from the huge open-world envoriments you'll step in, or the weird 
 Chimera-beasts and its weapon.
  
  Chimera's all look the same, but sometimes they vary in lenght or what weapon they carry, humans 
 have alot of detail in both clothes and facial features, weapons look.. strange.. so do their attacks.
 
  
  The towns and city's you'll play in look like GoW city's, everything is demolished, it looks like 
 a junkyard-acolypse instead of England back in 194X.
  
  Architecture from Chimera is really Alien-ish, from the high-tech barricades to devices they wear, 
 it'll let you scream ''CHEESEBALL ALIEN''.
  
  Multiplayer:
  This game is all about the multiplayer, and even though I find the Motorstorm multiplayer more 
 addictive then this multiplayer, the game has some hefty multiplayer going on, you'll be able to 
 play as humans and chimera, which each one having other weapon-selections that are also taken out 
 CoD.
  
  There are you're basic modes you'll have for MP aswel.
  
  Is it a good FPS:
  Great launchtitle, nothing really bad in the game, its a game PS3 owners should own in a nutshell. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dgral
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 4, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: the gameplay was incredible. There was never a quiet moment in the game. There was great 
 weapon variety so you could find a lot of ways to kill the chimera. There was also a surprising 
 number of weapons you could choose from. Graphics: These graphics just blew me away. The lighting 
 was terrific. The chimera looked so beautiful yet of course scary. All of the characters looked so 
 well done it's hard to describe. Sound: The music made you feel as if you were about to go to war. The 
 voice acting was great and the chimera sounded like aliens [of course] . Everything just sounded like 
 it would in real life. Value: I have had this game for six months and I am still playing it like 
 crazy. The online will keep you busy for a long time. FPS fans will play the story over and over 
 again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nailerr
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  I have little else to add to what has been said about this game aside this; the free demo on Playstation 
 Network does not do this game justice. It really takes around four hours of play before you get 
 to the good stuff and this is just not available in the demo, the game does nothing new but what 
 it does do it does well. Once you get back to the old idea of 'taking cover' by only moving behind 
 something it becomes a lot easier to play, Gears of war and Rainbow Six Vegas have spoiled up on 
 this aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielcapo5000
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 2, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  This game was the first game I played for the ps3 it was my firts game, and the first time I play 
 it I was so excited an d wanted to play it all the time now I have it for 2 and a half months a 
 even though I have more games I play resistance every week and Ive passed it 4 times and I'm going 
 for the fifth!...
  
  I played cooperative mode with my cousin the first time I passed it and the other three times I 
 beat it was in campaign mode, after that I play deadmatch when my friends come to my house, I really 
 enjoy this game and I hope there is a second part!... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolgamer6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 10:33 pm PT
Review:  First of all this was one of the best fps I have ever played. When I first played this game the 
 graphics were so good I was speechless. In this game you take the role of Sergeant Hale and you 
 are force to fight alien threats set in the year 1951, where WW2 never happened. The weapons in 
 this game are some of the greatest I have ever seen in any game which can be used in this game 
 be defeat your enemies. The on-line was probably the best I have ever seen in a game. With up to 
 40 people playing on one map it can get very crazy. The single player can last you a very long 
 time to. With 3 difficulties, new weapons to unlock every time you beat it, and a option to play 
 co-op this alone could last you 30 hours. If you are planing to buy a PS3 make this game your first 
 as you will not regret that choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman643
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 1, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  all around the game is amazing. the story line is a new creative thought. nothing like it was done 
 before and they nailed it. the 1 play or co-op is very solid and the online play is even better. 
 this is a must have for the PS3. it gets even better when you can have up to teams of 20 online 
 which creates a real sense of being on a batle filed because you can die at any point any where 
 with any weapon. this adds fun to the game knowing that you ahve to play tha tmuch better to make 
 sure you have that lil exta edge on the opposing team. its simple and quick to learn how to play 
 which meens jsut about anyone can just pick it up and start to play. its one of the most enjoyable 
 experences ive had on any system ive played on which meens all of them out there right now by far 
 this game is on the top or right next to it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Avc4eva
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 1, 2007 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I am not a fan of the PS3 but as soon as i got into this game i was stunned by the graphics they 
 are vibrant and well textured, the amount of features put into this game is simply great you have 
 a online capability with people across the world, Multi-player Offline battles with friends, and 
 with single-player or cooperative campaign with a story that is simply fantastic.
  
  The Good: Great graphics, lots of fun, many weapons to get your hands on, great multiplayer capabilities, 
 great storyline, great sound FX. Amazing Ai functions were the enemy are as clever as you, easy 
 playability get straight into the game, after completing the main campaign on Hard you unlock the 
 option of Super Human were you unlock many other great weapons.
  
  The Bad: Characters aren't developed in story, not many different enemys.
  
  The Bottom Line: 
 Resistance: Fall of Man is a great fps that anyone that owns a PS3 Should definetly try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WindyCityFlyer
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  Well I really did enjoy this game especially online. Its insane up to 40 people at once. It really 
 was frustrating in the beging for me since i wasnt that good lol. As for the campaign i enjoyed 
 as well. The is addicting, well at least for me. I went through the twice. The gameplay was fantastic 
 and the graphics were stunning. I really did love the game. I heard rumors that there will be resistance 
 2 ,which is great. This has to be one of the best lauch games ive ever bought. I do recommend this 
 game to anyone who enjoy shooter game. It is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindauer21
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  As of now this is the best game for the PS3 because of the online play. But by november this will 
 be on nobodys Now Playing List . Some improvments to make For the Next Resistance (If there is 
 one) would be better online play and less campaign because nobody likes that stuff besides Chad 
 Warden. This game would be a lot better if the headsets for the ps3 would be less expensive because 
 it is a lot better with a microphone. As of now this is the best game for the PS3 because of the 
 online play. But by november this will be on nobodys Now Playing List . Some improvments to make 
 For the Next Resistance (If there is one) would be better online play and less campaign because 
 nobody likes that stuff besides Chad Warden. This game would be a lot better if the headsets for 
 the ps3 would be less expensive because it is a lot better with a microphone. As of now this is 
 the best game for the PS3 because of the online play. But by november this will be on nobodys Now 
 Playing List . Some improvments to make For the Next Resistance (If there is one) would be better 
 online play and less campaign because nobody likes that stuff besides Chad Warden. This game would 
 be a lot better if the headsets for the ps3 would be less expensive because it is a lot better 
 with a microphone. As of now this is the best game for the PS3 because of the online play. But by 
 november this will be on nobodys Now Playing List . Some improvments to make For the Next Resistance 
 (If there is one) would be better online play and less campaign because nobody likes that stuff 
 besides Chad Warden. This game would be a lot better if the headsets for the ps3 would be less expensive 
 because it is a lot better with a microphone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OGTiago
Rating: 9
Date: May 31, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  After I've been playing the game extensively, I'll give you an honest, truthful review.
  
  Gameplay - The gameplay is superb. What make the game play so amazing is the weapons. Each weapon 
 is unique, and is required for certain situations. You'll experience about half way through the 
 game that the variety and uniqueness of the weapons is very much required and incredibly useful. 
 Each weapon provides a new experience, and that is something that lends itself well to establishing 
 a name for itself in this genre. Thanks to the unique weapons, the game really has a unique feel 
 everytime you play it. My personal favourite weapon is the bulleye, I like to tag enemies and watch 
 the bullets fly over to them automatically.
  
  Issues about the AI can be seen here, but that happens with every game. Beside a few odd stand 
 stills here and there, the AI is actually pretty good. They do take cover when needed, and rush 
 when needed. They melee if you get within range, and step away if attempt to rush and melee them. 
 They do adapt to your play; so if you are standing in one spot and just staying still, they will 
 flank you, or do the same, giving the game a real life feeling. It pays to keep moving in the game.
 
  
  It very much is a run and gun shooter, although that is something Insomniac meant to do. Vehicles 
 are in the game, and they are fun while they last. Vehicular moments don't last all that long, 
 but when you do get them, it is extremely fun, just wish there was more of it. Pacing is a little 
 odd, but you'll experience more of the games atmosphere better this way. Going from a huge fight 
 to walking in a creeping corridor experiencing the ever changing world for a little bit is cool. 
 Another cool thing is hero moments, which you rarely notice at all. You can save a guy, or let 
 a guy die if you want. And it helps and is quite cool to play it looking for those. In all, the 
 weapons are enough reason to play this game, and they'll keep you coming back for more.
  
  Graphics - Very underrated. The game isn't going to blow you away, but it does look fantastic, 
 and better than most next gen games on any console. Lighting is extremely good, and physics add 
 a good omph to the games visuals. Detail on the enemies is incredible, as is the animation. Atmosphere 
 is wonderful and very freaky.
  
  Another amazing aspect to graphics is the particle effects. Smoke looks like smoke, and just looks 
 fantastic. Grenades look good when going off, and really pack a punch. Gun bursts look great and 
 really look real for that type of weapon. And perhaps the most impressive thing about the graphics, 
 is the absolutely amazing draw distance. It really gives the game a sense of scale, and believability. 
 The world feels huge, and real, and that is extremely important. Had this game not had the draw 
 distance and atmosphere is does, it just wouldn't be the same game.
  
  Textures aren't the most detailed, but they get the job done, and when not focusing in on them, 
 look fantastic. All this comes together in one of the most smooth experiences in the history of 
 gaming. No matter what happens in the game, the framerate sticks and 30FPS. Hundreds of bullets, 
 and explosions, dozens of Chimera and humans, with physics and voice acting doing there thing, 
 with tons of AI calculation and draw distance effect, the game is absurdly smooth, and never drops 
 a hitch.
  
  Sound - Perhaps one of the best audio experiences in gaming. Voice is superb, and really lend a 
 sense of humanity, and humility to them. Sound effects like explosions and gun shots sound real, 
 and visceral. Each have a unique property to them that really gives the game a great feeling. Tons 
 of screaming and yelling in the game, to radio chatter all when fighting, coupled with sounds effect 
 left and right, gives for an amazing audio experience, and a perfect example of the next generation 
 of sound. Despite what people say, sound is extremely important in a game... Music is good when 
 heard, but there isn't a lot of it sadly.
  
  Multiplayer - Now the meat and potatoes of the game. I'll say it right now... one of the best multiplayer 
 experiences in gaming. 40-man battles in large, epic maps are insanely fun, and do provide an ample 
 opportunity for team play, which is required in a lot of the modes, like team deathmatch, and especially 
 Breach and Meltdown, two of the coolest modes. I'm sure a lot of you know about the modes, so I 
 won't explain them here, but they are fantastic. As you play ranked matches, you level up, and 
 can unlock different things for your character, along with a ton of stats to look at, and I mean 
 a ton... Anything you can think of, its probably there.
  
  You also get offline multiplayer, with up to four people splitscreen, and two player co-op, which 
 is fantastic. The game actually gets harder with another player, so that is always welcome, and 
 a great thing. Offline, its the same as online, but with four people.
  
  Matchmaking is awesome, and really does a good job of matching you up with appropriate people. 
 One of the best aspects to multiplayer, is that is NEVER LAGS! I've never once in my entire time 
 playing online in 40 person matches, or smaller, seen a hitch in the framerate or lag. Amazing. 
 I could go on and on about multiplayer, but I think you get the idea... ITS ONE OF THE BEST, and 
 it SHOULD NOT BE MISSED... PERIOD! Its sad this wasn't given the attention is deserves. Far better 
 than most online experiences of any console, and yes, that game. One thing they could improve are 
 the maps, they are okay, but there are not enough and they are quite linear.
  
  Story - This game has a great story. You are Sgt. Nathan Hale, or the US Rangers. You are sent 
 in to stop the Chimera, in a time where WWII never happened, but your squad is wiped out, and killed. 
 You, however, are not. The Chimera, and race on unknown origin has emerged from Russia, laying 
 waste to absolutely everything in its path. After you go missing, its up to you to show yourself 
 again, and retake Great Britain, and drive the Chimera back. Good luck.
  
  That is the story, and that's just the small bit of it. Its a great story, and breath of fresh 
 air in the FPS genre. If you want even more story, head to Insomniacs Resistance website, and you'll 
 get a ton of great info and backstory. Wonderful job on a great story Insomniac. Not like your 
 average alien shooter.
  
  Value - After you beat the game, you unlock some new weapons, and even some of the great Insomniac 
 unlockables and humour, which is always a bonus. Multiplayer can last forever, and is extremely 
 fun and lasting. Single player is worth a replay on hard mode, for a severe challenge. Great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrison91
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 7, 2007 11:32 am PT
Review:  while this is ps3 best looking launch title and best playing aswell dont just buy the console and 
 just one game (like i did) it may be fun for a while there are beter fps's (time spliters) it gets 
 old as all games do.
  
  the online mode is fun for a while unlocking uniforms and killing people you havnt meet the story 
 finished quite fast even on hard mode ,but it is just a launch title be fair.
  
  on of the selling points of the game was the fancy wepons. i just prefer wepons i'm used to ike 
 a simple machine gun and a shoutgun (thay are in the game) but all the alien guns take some geting 
 used to because you dont know what there strenghts are you have to practice before charging into 
 battle i'd just prefer to get a machine gun a charge into battle thats why i might get call of 
 duty 3 it's just more fun killing natzi's than aliens and the sixaxis could have been use more 
 for vehicles and stuff
  
  and they could have put some vehicles in the multiplayer it would have been fun runing over you 
 freinds.
  
  plus the geography is all wrong in the cutseens and their isnt really anything special for a fps 
 in this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 30, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  I live in Europe and well this was a launch title. I must say i am impressed. Usually launch titles 
 arent really good when there competing with the clock. So in the end its always not up to scratch 
 or is not fully finished. This game however has proven that launch titles can be great.
  
  The only real sci-fi game i have played apart from this is the incredible Half-life. So i was really 
 trying to compare the differences between them.
  
  Graphics: Awesome some of the best around really helps to build the atmosphere and the action. 
 Think about it when launch titles are made the graphics are usually bad but at the time we think 
 there amazing if thats the same with the ps3 think how good the graphics will be in 2 years time. 
 Only bad thing about the graphics are it just looks too dull in places. Sound: Great guns sound 
 cool enemies dying sound cool. Vehicles are cool.
  
  Realism/physics: Well there ok. I knocked a corps into a river no splash... no sound no nothing. 
 Some other physics are good though like the enemies have actually got quite a bit of wits. Also 
 the ragdoll effects are great.
  
  Gameplay. Ok time to get serious. Fun for about 3 days. Then overly repetetive i havent actually 
 finished the main game. Of course the online is absolutel brilliant top notch. It actually saves 
 the game. Its not repetetive because of the game modes and also the awards and badges. The online 
 i superb but offline eh its ok.
  
  Overall: A good launch title which devoured the competition offline seems a bit like a bonus. 40 
 player online sound good? get this then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: E_x_i_l_e
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 23, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man, is an immersive shooter straight from Insomniac Games. With Insomniac's 
 track record of unique, immersive gameplay, and their creative arsenal of weaponry, Resistance 
 is a fast-paced first person shooter that surely delivers.
  
  You play as Nathan Hale, a U. S. Soldier caught up in a war between the humans and the virus Chimera. 
 The narrative in Resistance helps fill you in on the story as you progress through the game. Along 
 with that, there is hidden intel scattered throughout the 10-12 hour long campaign that give you 
 more of a back story to everything. The story is nice and immersive, and keeps you wanting to know 
 more, and gives you the What will happen next? feeling.
  
  The gameplay is fairly generic like most shooters on the market. However, Insomniac and their creative 
 development team have managed to throw a really unique twist in to the gameplay: The weapons. The 
 weapons in Resistance are by far some of the best, most unique in any shooter to date. These weapons 
 come with pretty neat secondary fire modes that can give you a more strategic advantage over the 
 enemy if used correctly. For example, the Auger is one of the many unique weapons in this game. 
 It can fire through walls! As the rounds pass through each new wall, it becomes more powerful. 
 This can help take enemies down by surprise and completely eliminate the need to take them on head 
 to head. The secondary fire on the Auger deploys a shield that not only works in conjunction to 
 your primary fire but can be used for defensive or evasive tactics if you're in a bind and will 
 also hurt enemies running through it. The graphics in Resistance are good, but not mind blowing. 
 The world does look believable enough and is very well done. The tone of the game really makes 
 you feel like you're in World War II, just with an infectious twist. There are several environments 
 that have a more sci-fi-esque feel to them as well. Not only do the environments look good, but 
 the character models do as well. The animations are smooth, and there's rarely ever a hitch in 
 the framerate, if at all. It's quite a feat for so much going on on the screen at a time, especially 
 during the massive 40 player multiplayer matches.
  
  It's online definately adds to the game, though lacking any cooperative mode online, it still provides 
 an excellent, well polished, up to 40-player-at-a-time experience. There's the standard deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, a last man standing mode called Conversion, Breach, Assault, Capture the Flag, 
 and Meltdown. All of which are great fun. The gameplay online is very stable, with very little 
 lag. Resistance truly shines in its multiplayer.
  
  Now, to wrap this review up, the game sounds great, it's easy to pick up and play, has great replay 
 value due to the skill points you can unlock, the multiplayer, co-op, etc. If you're a fan of shooters 
 and love a fun online experience as well, Resistance is definately a game to pick up. It's without 
 a doubt a must own for early adopters to the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Tricko
Rating: 9.4
Date: Aug 1, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man, is a great game with fantastic campaign mode with co-op mode and single 
 mode it really shows its Amazing A. I with the elite hybrids flanking and the hybrids taking cover 
 and blindfire shooting. Another quality about the campaign is its sevrel difficulties which you 
 can really tell as you proceed through them.
  The multiplayer is probably the games best quality with its 40 player online compatabilities and 
 its offline multiplayer. The online feature has a nice touch to it with the personal book of badges 
 medals (very much like a different version of X-box 360 gamerpoints but for one game) it realy 
 lets you see the abilities of the player you are with or against. Also the change your characters 
 appearence must be commented on.
  Another thing about this game is the incredibly inventive weapons such as the Auger which has a 
 secondary fire of a sheild and its normal fire that can drive throgh walls very usefull.
  Although this game is good there are various things i would have liked to see;
  3rd person
 
  The way that characters die just is'nt good as there body is very stiff unless you melee them.
 
  
  Overall it is a great game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alastor424
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It has it's flaws.. but there are many few.
  
  In Resistance: Fall of man, you play as an American soldier by the name of Nathan Hale. He is a 
 rather quiet soldier. He doesn't say much.
  
  In the beginning of the game, you are thrown into a Chimeran invasion along with several troops 
 by your side.
  
  The Chimera are rather.. disturbing creatures... you can find out why by playing the game.
  
 
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in this game is just like any other shooter, but there's a different feel to it. The 
 gameplay is much like Ratchet &amp; Clank (Resistance is made by Insomniac, the same designers) , 
 only, this game has blood and horrific creatures. As you play, you acquire new guns, many are types 
 of guns you've never seen before, nor could imagine. Upon collecting these guns, they add upon 
 your inventory, when you hold down the Weapon Switch button, a ring of guns appear (much like Ratchet 
 &amp; Clank's weapon system) , or you can toggle weapons by tapping the same button. The guns switching 
 adds more of an action feel to the game because you may try to switch the gun during a major gun 
 battle depending on the situation you're in. Resistance is more of a run and gun game than a duck 
 and cover. Although you may take cover, the Chimera will most likely move in to engage you, or 
 in some cases, they'll flank. Or sometimes you'll duck behind cover and the enemy can still shoot 
 the tip of your head. The life-system isn't bad. You have 4 quarters of life to live off of. After 
 the first act in the game, if you've taken little damage, you can find cover and your health will 
 regenerate to the nearest quarter.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics for this game are quite impressive. The soldiers look awesome and if you look in their 
 eyes, they will actually look back at you. The evironment is great as well.
  
  Sound:
  The sound is great. The designers selected good noises for how each gun is used, and it sounds 
 great. Some of the voicing is good, but it could be better.
  
  Multiplayer:
  This game has amazing multiplayer. You can either fight in huge online battles, or play with 1 
 to 4 friends in a one-on-one offline match or play with 1 on a offline co-op campaign. Upon playing 
 online ranked matches, you level up your soldier, unlocking him new clothes, skins and accessories 
 to battle with. Leveling up your soldier can be very addicting. The maps in this game are awesome. 
 For instance, there is a town that is connected to a forest and a little fort. Co-op is even more 
 fun than playing by yourself. The second player plays as another soldier, though he is not even 
 acknowledged, which really annoys me because that happens a lot in games now.
  
  Replay-Value:
  This game has excellent replay-value. After you've completed campaign, you unlock 
 new things, making replaying it even more fun. And you can also play on a harder difficulty, and 
 you may get frustrated at times because it's so hard. It never gets old playing co-op with somebody, 
 especially on the hardest difficulty.
  
  Overall:
  Resistance: Fall of Man is an excellent FPS, it has great multiplayer, as well as an excellent 
 single player. It is definately worth it's price. Buy this game and have fun completing it and 
 building your stats in online ranked, and unranked matches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ice-vanilla
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 27, 2007 9:54 pm PT
Review:  An awesome first person shooter for your PS3. Its got a thrilling story, with great graphics. 
 Not to mention an amazing multiplayer. In the game you are Nathan Hale, in a world where WWII never 
 happened. You are sent to Britain to combat the Chimera, a vicious super-virus killing off the 
 human population and using its victims to spread itself and its causewhich happens to be spreading 
 itself!!!!! The game may not have eye popping graphics but the effects in the gameplay make up 
 for its lack of color. Battlefield explosions are intense and amazing. Muzzle flashes from weapons 
 look astounding. Battles with the chimera are pretty intense and chaotic, not to mention awesome!!! 
 Weapon sounds are amazing, just as good as any other FPS available. Now the feature that I LOVE 
 in the game. The multiplayer mode! If youve ever played with the 40 player limit filled youll 
 know what Im talking about. The entire battlefield is crazy and fights are intense. Soon youll 
 find yourself shooting any moving object!!! Overall Resistance is one of the best FPSes available 
 for the PS3. With its chaotic battles, great sound and spectacular multiplayer this is an experience 
 you wouldnt wanna miss!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kjhutto
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 27, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Premise: World War II never happened. Instead a supervirus begins killing off the human population 
 and then uses it's victums to spread itself and fight for it's cause (To spread itself)
  
  Graphics: Nothing to spectacular in terms of what most people would think of graphics, in fact 
 its actually pretty dull. But the effects in the gameplay are what make up for a lack of color 
 and really ambient lighting. The muzzle flashes from every weapon are amazing, the explosions intense. 
 In the Chimera gernades in which razor sharp pins go everywhere, its amazing that it can process 
 where every needle is going while an intense firefight is going on in which all bullets are tracers 
 and you can see them. That's something, even though it is next gen, you have to respect if not 
 admire.
  
  Sound: Weapons sounds are amazing, but no more than any of the other best first person shooters 
 on the market. If your a fan of FPS, then you know what your in for. That said, it still is very 
 intense firing that carbine and you will feel it. As long as you dont expect revolutionary sound, 
 you shouldn't be disappointed.
  
  Multiplayer: The multiplayer feature of Reisistance has the potential to be crazy and chaotic if 
 the 40 player limit is filled, it just gets crazy and you find yourself shooting at anything that 
 moves. It's a blast to play.
  
  Bottomline: With chaotic, intense shooting action, great sound and unbelieveable weapons; Reisistance 
 fall of man is an experience that should not be missed, despite not bringing anything incredibly 
 new to the table. It belongs in any Playstation 3 owner's starting line up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhantomKills
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2007 8:15 am PT
Review:  Well to be honest, this game did not blow my mind, theres nothing revolutionary about the game, 
 and nothing overly impressive, but there is a something this game is and thats, FUN, i was never 
 bored with the game play, the weapons are fun to use, and each serve indispensable when there use 
 is needed, although some weapons at first seemed really useless, until you find the right use for 
 them. the graphics are great and the snow and surroundings looked very realistic, the difficulty 
 was just right, some parts i had to do several times, but i rather have a challenge than run by 
 the level. i never felt like any map was overly easy to finish. The AI is one thing that did impress 
 me, they moved outta the way when i shot at them , they took cover and tried to flank, there aim 
 was right on, and did not give you a chance to just run and gun, if you did you were dead for sure, 
 you need to cover. the length of the game was just right also, with a good amount of hours needed 
 to finish the game. they also added some variety, by being able to drive tanks, jeeps and enemy 
 vehicles which was nice change of pace at times. the ended was also not disappointing which was 
 a great relief after a great game play. but it doesnt stop there, the multiplayer is fun and constantly 
 being supported the creators with new patches, fixes, and soon to be released map packs. i gave 
 this game a 8.5, cause not many games are 10's and 9's will have to be something special, but this 
 game is for sure a must have and a must play with anyone with a ps3, you will not be disappointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StOcKoHeArTs
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2007 3:21 am PT
Review:  You are nathan hale a soilder of th U. S army coming to britian (yes Britian can you believe it!) 
 To help defeat the Chimera But Hale is different to ordinary men so the story unravls across your 
 battle beween life and death.
  
  Gameplay 10 : Easy to use gameplay with wicked weapons, grenades and enimies its very very brill.
 
  
  Graphic's 10 : The graphics are amazing ther is detail in everything! a very good lauch title.
 
  
  Sound 10 : Good voice acting wep sounds and music is the best!
  
  Value : Had it for a month still not completed it (gone on everyday) and the multiplayer is SICK!!! 
 40 players - 20v20 or free for all capture the flag everything!!!!
  
  Overall 10 : A brill, amazing FPS with the graphic's, gameplay, sound and the multiplayer this is 
 the best FPS on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overwhelminglyD
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 26, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Currently, Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the best, if not the best, title on the PS3. As one 
 who has already beaten the campaign mode twice (hard, and then superhuman) , I can vouch that the 
 campaign mode is exceptional.
  
  The campaign mode takes you through several levels as you slowly fight your way to London to destroy 
 the queen-like Angel Chimera (the bad guys ) , or in other words, the main Chimeran brain. Throughout 
 your journey, you will encounter numerous Chimera in different forms (dependent on their stage 
 in life) . Also, you will find new weapons as you progress through the game. The weapons, reminiscient 
 of Insomniac Games' Ratchet and Clank, include an Auger Rifle (shoots through solid objects, as 
 to hit a foe behind a bunker/wall/etc) , Reapers (available only on the second time you run campaign; 
 dual-wielding pistol-like weapons that individually target enemies automatically) , backlash grenades 
 (also only available on your second campaign run; beastly force-field grenade - best grenade in 
 game-awesome) , and other unique weapons.
  
  As for multiplayer, it's not the best for a 1st-person shooter, but it's still decent. The 40-player 
 online can be fun for a while, but will get old and obnoxious fast. Some of the better and cooler 
 weapons are removed for multiplayer, but that's understandable due to their unfairness.
  
  As far as the graphics go, they aren't the best that the PS3 will be able to offer, in fact, they 
 are not even as good as what the Xbox 360 can offer, but as far as being a game released the same 
 day as the PS3, what more can you expect? The physics in the game are great, and nearly everything 
 in interactive - here you can clearly see the next-gen capabilities.
  
  As a whole, Resistance: Fall of Man is definitely a game worth buying, or atleast renting. It might 
 not stand strong against the respectable titles coming out in fall, but it'll probably be a game 
 we're still playing year from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gmecbe
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 25, 2007 7:30 am PT
Review:  When i played this game i thought that it was going to be better than what it was. Dont get me 
 wrong the game is good but its missing that top gamplay to really keep me gripped. Once i completed 
 the game i knew that i would probably never pick the game up again and that is what i find dissapointing 
 about it. The graphics are the usual PS3 impressive graphics and has very good visuals with character 
 and structure detail being top class. However a few points that lets this game down i feel one 
 of them was the story. The story is about a virus starting in russia and then spreads across the 
 world which i imagine must mutate humans, since this was very vague and not clear you really have 
 to jump to conclusions since the writers could not be bothered to explain what this virus actually 
 does but i guess you have to use your imagination. The story is probably the most disappointing 
 thing about the whole game and for me it is one of the most important things for a game like this. 
 I just get the feeling that the writers couldn't be bothered with it. The most annoying thing is 
 that when your character becomes infected at the start of the game they never explain what this 
 means or what will happen to you and i find that very frustrating that there was no colclusion 
 to this part of the story. The actual game however is slightly better. Shooting these aliens or 
 whatever they are classed as adds all of the fun to the game. Overall i enjoyed playing the game 
 and enjoying actually doing the levels and seeing those graphics but overall i probably will never 
 pick up this game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shaunyboi2006
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 25, 2007 12:26 am PT
Review:  Resistance I believe is a strong title for the PS3 but does not compare to the great games that 
 Xbox 360 have been publishing. I feel the gameplay doesn't draw you into the game and not as affective 
 as games such as GOW or even Halo 2. The story is pretty basic while the story mode does not offer 
 a lot of cut scenes to show off the console's potential. Although the A. I within the game is very 
 good, enemies will spot you far away and will continue to fire at you, if you take cover then they 
 will move in on you to get a much closer shot. I believe if the developer spent more time on this 
 game then they would have a very strong title but on the whole I doubt we wont be seeing any STRONG 
 titles for the PS3 until late this year/2008.
  
  Playstation really need to start bringing out games soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rocket1988
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 24, 2007 10:43 pm PT
Review:  An interesting game, but it wasn't anything i've never seen. I mean the story mode is a lot better 
 than the usual first person shooter, great story and ambitious ending. This is gonna be a great 
 trilogy, i just expected better weapons from the guys who brought you rachet and clank. They were 
 good but i just expected more. The graphics are amazing and i love the sound. The online play really 
 shines and is as addicting as any FPS. The thing i will look for in the next resistance is maybe 
 some more weapons and an air or water mission would be cool, instead of the battlefield and underground 
 missions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 24, 2007 5:13 pm PT
Review:  i got this game for christmas and i was just so excited to play it, and when i started playing 
 i was addicted! this game is a little bit like halo, but it is way better and has way better graphics, 
 and also better online play. The gun selection is very good. the graphics are good, and the gameplay 
 is good also. you could barely find any flaws.. lol. ok the campaign mode and online play are both 
 amazing and never get boring (my opinion) what i am saying is this game will keep you busy for 
 a while because of the online play. OK this is a a really really good game, and i f you own a ps3 
 you should go buy this game or at least give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  this is it the tone of the ps3 and it is set this game is fun uh i mean wow ur name is nathan hale 
 u r really some sort of super human american soldier and ur killing these aliens called the chimera 
 u battle many differnt types of them my personal favirote is the titan i diegras u also get a huge 
 arsenal of guns alien guns and human if u want to unlock all guns u have to play the 2 times through 
 wich is great cause the story mode is great. now for the flaw even though u fight a lot of aliens 
 the primary one u figh r the hybrids it get a little reptitve but thats the only flaw. so yet again 
 if u like war games violence or sci fi get this game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 24, 2007 3:31 pm PT
Review:  Welcome to Next Generation gaming, Resistance is the Gears of War of Playstation 3. Incredible 
 graphics, great and lengthy storyline, great multiplayer, awesome weapons, great on and offline 
 gameplay, This game is better than gears of war, and i can prove it. Storyline is much longer, 
 more weapons, better multiplayer, graphics on both games are great, and gears gets boring after 
 a while, and if you dont have xbox live, it'll get REALLY boring, the story is too short, but Resistance's 
 storyline is great, lengthy, detailed, and just fun. If you own a PS3, THEN GO BUY THIS GAME RIGHT 
 NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn08
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  When first picking up the controller to Resistance all I thought was wow. I'm finally going to 
 play. My mind raced as I jumped into single player. Let me tell you about the story.
  
  Your name is Nathan Hale. Your with the United States Army Rangers. You've been sent to Europe 
 to fight something so brutal and unknown you may not know what you've gotten yourself into. Your 
 enemy... The Chimera... An alien breed we know nothing about. Or at least you know nothing about. 
 Your mission... Is unclear and you fight your way to find a solution to the fall of man kind. The 
 single player mode is incredible. It will have you hooked from the start. You know your playing 
 a great game when you feel as though you can't put the controller down. The extremely large campaign 
 will have you hooked. It may take you up to a week just to beat it on normal. However, if your 
 up for the challenge you can go at it again on hard and superhuman which have new weapons for you 
 to use and interact with. This makes the second play through a lot more fun and worth playing again. 
 When you finish or are at least finished for the moment (because the single player is so good) 
 you can head on into online play. A jaw dropping moment was playing my first 40 person game. You 
 feel as though you are in an actual war-zone. Finding a game you want in unranked rooms is easy. 
 However if your going for the scoreboard, your going to have to adapt to randomly placed ranked 
 games which in a way is good and challenges you as a player. However it can get frustrating at 
 times. Overall the game is spectacular and well worth the money. The game never gets old and will 
 have you playing long after the story ends. So I advise you to join the fight and enlist in the 
 Chimeran War Today... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 21, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Someone tell how we can the Carbine have a grenade launcher in World War 2 when it isnt even invented 
 yet?! And how the hell can the Human Helicopters be more advanced then us when we didnt even have 
 Proppelers let alone Hover Jets!!!
  Game is by Insomniac... Really Reliable! Ratchet and Clank Rocked!
  and of course Insomniac's 
 specialty making Unique weapons.
  Singleplayer is has some decent level design and sometimes an all out war or you go alone against 
 all these Chimera! and the best part is the AI. The are freakin smart I cant even tell where they 
 go after a corner until they ambush me!
  Multiplater...1 word... Awsome. I mean what else? its 40 Players and NO lag!
  Its a PC dream if 
 it really had no lag. Sad part they didnt add all the weapons to Multiplayer just some with 3 Grenades 
 or was it 2? All I know is they didnt add the Backlash Grenade which I liked so much T-T Speaking 
 of Backlash where did Halo3 get their Ideal of Buble Shield &gt;.&gt;
  Overall its one of those PS3 Must Have! or you'll hate yourself and kick yourself right in you 
 ass 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dynomitemasta
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 21, 2007 11:02 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on launch day with my PS3. I have to say I was definitely a bit underwelmed. 
 It just didn't seem to live up to all of the hype surrounding it.
  First off I must say that I never thought that rumble was a big deal or really mattered that much, 
 until it was taken away. I miss it dearly. Now the visuals aren't what I would call truly next-gen 
 and almost seem like a fantastic PS2 game, nothing revolutionary there, they just seem a bit more 
 shiny, polished and detailed, but not to the point in which I say WOW . The controller hinders 
 the experience as well, I will get a 3rd party controller as soon as they make a kick-ass one. 
 They could have done more with the load-times as well. A map?, what's that. The sound is also kind 
 of glitchy at best, when you change weapons it goes completely silent. A lot of little things like 
 that really bothered me. Maybe Gears has forever spoiled me but, it's time to take the game to 
 the next level guys. For a launch title, it's fine but it definitely won't go down in history as 
 one of Sony's finest moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FaiThFul066
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is one of the best games I have ever played (and I have played a lot of 
 games.)
  
  You have probably heard a lot of talk about this game and this game rocks! Graphics: Amazing graphics. 
 People have different faces, it isn't 40 of the same people running around. Blood is good when 
 you shoot a chimera (enemy) in the head with the Far-eye (sniper rifle) . Buildings and weapons 
 are very detailed. Sound: great sound. Chilling noises in dark corridors. Chimera growl and shriek 
 sometimes which is pretty cool. Guns have great sound while shooting. Storyline: Awesome storyline. 
 It keeps you interested and is highly addictive. No mission is boring. I can't possibly fit everything 
 awesome about this game in this review.
  Trust me this game is awesome if it wasn't I would not have said so, and I wouldn't have spent 
 the time writing this review.
  *HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS GAME* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 8.8
Date: May 20, 2007 12:30 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man Is a game with a run and gun feel, excellent presentation, a real sense of 
 scale and realistic level design that takes place in an alternate universe where WWI, WWII and communism 
 in Russia never happenned. You play as Nathan Hale. He's an American soldier that talks rarely and 
 the narrator is a European female soldier. Your enemies are called the Chimera. There are many types 
 of them but it seems that the Chimeran Hybrids are the most numerous of them all and you'll encounter 
 many of them in the game. There are few parts in the game where you get to ride some vehicles. It's 
 very fun when you get to ride them and you can use some crazy weapons and alternate fires that 
 are fun to use. Resistance: Fall of Man is an awesome game that combines the best aspects of other 
 great games in one great package that's worth your money and time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: owskie
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  I will break mine down like the score is done. Gameplay: i would give it a 9 only because its not 
 perfect nothing is ever perfect, but this get so close, so many games have easy to kill enemies, 
 but this game truly puts you agains some tough ones. Then there is online gameplay where it gets 
 even better the maps are fun, although i would like some way to tell my team from the other in 
 a better way, only form long distances tho. Graphics: this one i give a 9. this is a great looking 
 game. and for it being a launch title is even better great everything is well detailed.
  
  Sound: 8, sound was really good all the guns sounded pretty good, as you walk in an area you can 
 hear the enemy make their weird sounds you can just tell your in for a fight.
  
  Value: 8. Now this is an amazing game but it is just a FPS there will be others, it doenst bring 
 too much new things to the table.
  
  Tilt: I highly recomend this game to any ps3 owners out there. unless you are underage cause then 
 your parents get mad that your killing. then they get in a fit and take away the system we all 
 dont want that so wait till your of age. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellknight6
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Pro: New twist on a old setting, 40 player online, great multiplayer, fun single player, ranking 
 system ,friends list and clan support
  
  Cons: Been there Done that kinda fell, mediocre graphics, and gets boring after a while
  
  
 Resistance is by far one of the best ps3 launch titles and first person shooters. It was no halo 
 killer like most people thought it would but it does have great gameplay and multiplayer.
  
  Resistance feels like halo, call of duty, and half-life combined into one game. It has very 
 good frame rates for how much stuff is going on at once (armies of soldiers/aliens, explosions, 
 and gun fights) but to keep good frame rates they had to lower the quality of the graphics.
  
  I like the run and gun gameplay and the amount of weapons (and all the alt fires) . The game 
 is linear (it leads you down a path the whole game) but the action keeps you on the edge of your 
 seat and all the weapons make it very fun.
  
  The multiplayer is the best part of this game, 40 PLAYER ONLINE LAG FREE, clan support, mic support, 
 ranking system, stats, and updates. Let me start off by saying the multiplayer is worth the 60 
 bucks. You may think the game might be unbalanced with chimera vs. humans but it is very well balanced 
 humans have unlimited run and chimera have berserk (more speed, more powerful, and can see through 
 walls) but after a while you start to overheat and lose health. There's a bunch of maps small to 
 large, all different. 40 PLAYERS ONLINE IS AWESOME and very fun. This game SUPPORTS HEADSETS but 
 not very many people have mic's.
  
  All in all this is a well put together launch title and it's well worth the money but make sure 
 you have online or you wont play it very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caslipknot
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 13, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a terrific game, one that probably won't ever get the proper recognition 
 because of the rest of the weak PS3 launch titles. However, anybody who has taken the time to really 
 play this game will tell you how beautiful it really is. The graphics are amazing. There is terrific 
 detail in just about every little thing, and your field of vision is always large and clear. The 
 sound is nothing special, but it's nothing bad, either. The controls are just about perfect, with 
 all the buttons seeming to correspond to the most natural action. The gameplay is fast and furious 
 for the most part, but there are some stages where the popular (and sometimes boring) tunnel shooting 
 comes in to play. These stages, however, just make you thirst more for the battle stages. The levels 
 with the big battles against swarms of enemies are some of the most enjoyable I have ever played, 
 and the replay value of these specific stages is high.
  What really puts Resistance up there, though, are the weapons. This game has the most amazing arsenal 
 of weapons I've ever seen. There are three different grenades (basic frag, basic incendiary, and 
 an awesome Hedgehog grenade that sends large metal spikes flying in all directions) and each has 
 its own specific strengths and weaknesses. The guns are awesome, from the alien machine gun with 
 the homing device to the rocket launcher that lets you readjust your shot while the rocket suspends 
 itself in the air.
  The bad guys are original and varied, there are a few vehicles that are fun, and the multi-player, 
 both online and off, is fantastic. Any person considered to be a fan of FPS games should pick this 
 one up as soon as possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xantiriad
Rating: 7.3
Date: May 13, 2007 7:43 am PT
Review:  Pros: Set in England; good weapons; 40 player online!; uses PS Network (friends list)
  Cons: Derivative; mediocre graphics; missing some magic 
  
  Resistance Fall of Man is one of 
 two PS3 only launch titles, and as such is an important game for Sony. First generation games on 
 a new console are always troublesome and often never achieve players' high expectations; it is 
 often a couple of years before a platform gets it's Gears . This was never truer than of the PS3 
 and Resistance - Fall of Man.
  
  Resistance plays very much like Timesplitters in that the controls are ultra responsive and twitchy, 
 whilst the environments and textures are clearly optimised for a very high framerate rather than 
 sheer beauty. This can make the game feel plastic and the streets of York, in particular, look 
 very angular and flat.
  
  The run and gun gameplay is good fun and the array of weapons is very interesting; there are some 
 whacky ideas explored. The problem is that, with the exception of the weapons, you have played 
 this game many times before; Resistance borrows too much from the likes of Half Life and FEAR and 
 ends up feeling very stale, very early.
  
  The saving grace is the brilliant, lag free (dedicated servers, no peer-to-peer) , 40 player online 
 which is just _awesome_. It made made better for the fact that very few people have headsets (none 
 packaged with PS3, although any bluetooth headset will work) , so annoying septics are at a minimum.
 
  
  There is quite a lot of game for the money and the investment in Resistance is worth it for the 
 multiplayer alone. It is just a shame that Resistance Fall of Man in single player, looks and feels 
 like a run of the mill Half Life meets Timesplitters hybrid. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Plate
Rating: 8
Date: May 12, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was one the big-ish releases of last year &amp; the one most was looking 
 forward too when it launched with the PS3.
  
  I have played this game for acouple of months now, playing through the story, Multiplayer &amp; 
 getting a general feel for the game &amp; Sonys new console.
  
  The game starts promising with good action straight out with the usual FPS set-up, run &amp; gun 
 action as you try to blast through the Chimera, the story to the game is quite well done with some 
 interesting senarios playing out although i would have liked the lead (Hale) to have had more lines 
 to speak because he stays silent through most of the cut-scences just making faces LOL &amp; theres 
 quite a few of them, it will take you about 10 or so hours to complete the story but there is reason 
 to play again with harder difficulties to challange, a ponits game that you earn for killing three 
 Chimera in a row or somthing like that, which in tern leads to more Weapons becoming avaliable 
 &amp; new player models in Multiplayer which is cool.
  
  Grapics for the game are pretty decent with the lighting &amp; facial animation looking great but 
 i just feel that the PS3 can offer more &amp; i'm sure it will in coming months as developers figure 
 out the consoles make-up.
  
  Sound for the game is what you would expect with all Guns &amp; greandes sounding great, voice 
 acting is well done &amp; doesnt sound forced, Chimera sound good too.
  
  The true fun &amp; last appeal is in the multiplayer with matchs like Death Match, Team Death Match, 
 Capture the flag &amp; Meltdown, it also pits you against player of similar skill to start off 
 with so new people to multiplayer won't be thrown in with a group of Elites, that is untill you 
 have earned the right ranks &amp; stats to challange them. The only thing about on-line with Resistance: 
 Fall of Man that i didn't like was the quit feature, particularly in Team Death Match where fellow 
 gamers can just leave you with your pants down, i mean you can just quit with now effect to your 
 Wins or loses stats (come on guys/girls we could have turned it around lol) .
  
  Overall a decent game &amp; one i would not hesitate to recommend to FPS fans or people just looking 
 for a good multiplayer game, not to mention its one of few good PS3 games at the moment, roll on 
 the holiday season i say LOL. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captainstringer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 8:42 am PT
Review:  best game i have ever played it's worth the money without doubt because u just want to keep killing 
 everyone repeat online to you get 20 kills very additive and the graphics are stunning if just 
 got a ps3 like i did you must buy it for 40 player online play when room full gets more differcult 
 which makes the online excellent because there is gun fire everywhere so you need to move all the 
 time and press triangle and whack somone on the head with the end of gun and then move on to next 
 enemey watch out for grenades as they normally going everywhere.
  When playing singleplayer basically enemey work the same they normally come in front of you in 
 formation so you need to shoot there face or on the back where tubes are and there down if u got 
 a shotgun they die instanceley with a face shot the game has awesome story and great levels you 
 getting playing untill you master all weapons and become unstoppable Plz Kick Kids Offline With 
 There Spawn Rape they Ruin The Online Game also there is never any LAG . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zguess
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2007 10:05 am PT
Review:  You're walking along with your AI soldier accomplices when suddenly you get ambushed by a S. talker, 
 a metalic mechanized next-gen robot. After some intence shooting, a hoarde of chimeran soldiers 
 ambush you, meanwhile you are trying to fight of a giant spider who is killing all of your soldiers. 
 Suddenly you see flashes of yellow lights on the walls your first instinct is to shoot them. After 
 realizing that it does nothing the lights fly right at you and it's clear that a weapon caused 
 them to be there. With a few grenades you manage to take out a metalhead who shoots through any 
 and all solid objects, to find a wounderfuly done cutsceene waiting for you. Thats the type of 
 action which exists in Resistance: Fall of Man. The story creates a suspenceful atmosfere with 
 gorgeous level design and great AI. Graphics are mind blowing for a launch title, and pearsoaly 
 overall, I believe that this game beats Gears of War any day. Defenitly recomend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mankind7
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 7, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  I brought this game with my PS3, I look back and it was the best choice I could make! Really, if 
 you like FPS's and in the same time you need something new you gonna like this game. In Resistance 
 you got a giant variety of weapons, you got old school weapons, you got futuristic weapons and 
 all you need to end the Chimeran domination, I'm talking about tanks and other heavily armed vehicles. 
 The storie is also great, in general, for now its the best damn FPS you can play for PS3, so if 
 you got one, run, don't walk, and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RSCNAVYSPAZ
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 6, 2007 10:38 pm PT
Review:  Resistance may seem kind of boring, since you have played FPS games before, they are all pretty 
 repeative. I have gotten bored of most FPS games. but I got this as my first PS3 game, I have to 
 say, it is great. both Single player and Online are awesome, the enemys on single player, can aim 
 pretty good too, you actually have to take cover behind objects, not just run and gun, you actually 
 have to worry about getting shot. Graphics: Amazing, I have never played a game with better graphics. 
 The faces of the enemy, windows that have been shot, explosions, fire, all of it looks so cool. 
 Sound: is pretty nice too, the sound of guns, explosions, the enemy when you shoot them :S Gameplay: 
 Is great too. the controls are very easy, like all FPS games, R1 is shoot, L2 is crouch, which 
 you need to do quiet often. Its not just on foot, some parts of the story, you can get into tanks, 
 jeeps, and all sorts of vehicles.
  
  (I want to put more into this reveiw, but I am using my PS3 to post this, which limits me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SulimanItachi2
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2007 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of man is a great launch. It is a great FPS with a deep plot. Aliens the Chimerian 
 take over parts of Europe. Nathan HAle an American goes to help the war. The gameplay is great. 
 The Graphics are not that great. The detail is not to much. The online is spectacular. There is 
 free for all , deathmatch, team and capture the flag. In online you can face 40 people at once 
 and the maps are huge. The single player is very nice too the wepons are very interesting especially 
 the Bullseye. The other weapns don't get that much ammo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danl1386
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 5, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  When the PS3 came out, I wasn't sold on this game at all. It seemed like just another alien shooting 
 game which didn't spark my interest. Due to many of the games I've wanted to get being delayed, 
 I decided to buy it off e-bay and play it until a new game I wanted came out.
  
  The first time I popped it into the PS3 I realized how wrong I had been before playing the game. 
 This game is incredible. The graphics are great, gameplay is easy to understand, weapons are amazing 
 and very original.
  
  I really don't have any complaints about the game. I wish it would have been put in 1080p, but 
 I guess that would bet he only real complaint. Despite not being in 1080p the graphics are still 
 pretty solid. I'm hoping with the sequel they'll improve a little bit, but it'd be hard to make 
 them much better than they already are.
  
  Gameplay is a lot of fun. It's easy to get started. The variety of weapons and basically 2 available 
 ways of firing in wach weapon make it a ton of fun to progress through the levels and find new 
 guns. The game is challenging enough to make it a lot of fun but not too challenging to make it 
 nearly impossible to get through levels.
  
  The online play is incredible and it never gets old. The variety of maps and weapons always makes 
 it fun to play while the rankings make it fun to see how you've progressed through your time playing.
 
  
  In short, I would recommend this game to anyone who buys a PS3. If you don't think it's worth the 
 $60 new then jump on e-bay or go to a used game store and buy it for $40. It is a worthwhile purchase!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimdagamer
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 6:46 pm PT
Review:  The single player is a blast the first time around. Between the unbelievable firefights between 
 what seems like hundreds of men to the cold, dark, gut wrenching, creepy moments of solitary, this 
 game is fun. Though after youve beaten the single player you wont find much need to go back and 
 play it again. Thats why theirs online. There are all the standards, death match, capture the 
 flag and such. Not to mention the addictive 40-player muiltyplayer. With good player tracking, 
 full microphone capability and great graphics, I cant believe this is a launch title. I think 
 R: FOM could hold itself up a year or two into the life of the PS3. The fact is that this game is 
 fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinnoT
Rating: 7.7
Date: May 3, 2007 6:54 am PT
Review:  Resistance is the biggest release title for the PS3 alongside Motorstorm.
  And with that said I dont expect it to be anything special with it being a release title. Resistance 
 doesnt dissapoint there, its nothing special. Just a run of the mill FPS.
  You play the role of an american soldier sent to Engand to help out with the defence of the country 
 from the invasion of aliens called the Chimera . And throughout the game single handedly repell 
 the whole invasion force.
  There isnt much of a story to be honest. You generally just go from area to area killing everything 
 that isnt human. The firefights are pretty hectic and enemies can pop up from pretty much anywhere, 
 if you run in like an idiot you are sure to die.
  
  The game is good overall. Graphics are bright and vibrant. There isnt a jagged edge in sight and 
 the characters move well and look realistic. The AI is pretty good, the enemies will move forward 
 and flank you, theyll also fall back when hurt and try to generally stay alive. At some points 
 in the game there are times that you control different vehicles.. these are a welcome break from 
 the usual grind of FPS'ing, but the problem is these parts of the game arent very good. They seem 
 like an afterthought. The one part there this game beats most games Ive ever seen... are the glass 
 effects.. yes, glass. Thats it. Other than minor shortcomings this is a solid FPS which wont really 
 make you overly happy with it, or overly sad. its just a forgetable FPS to be honest. If youre 
 gonna get a PS3 within the next few months then make sure you pick this up, if you get one when 
 other games have come out then getting this game would be pretty pointless.
  
  If youre gonna get a PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotsauceyguy
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 2, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  Considering that this game had no time to let consumers figure out what they like, this is a fantastic 
 game. And the storyline is fantastic and incredibly well researched. Please check out Resistance: Fall 
 of Man's website. The graphics are increbible and in high def. The freaky sounds that are utilized 
 throughout the game make the game all the more realistic. And Insomniac games continues to make 
 useful an innovative weapons. Such as the auger, which has the ability to tunnel through walls. 
 And the enemies in the game (the chimera) are scarier than monsters found in some of the best horror 
 movies. And as in a good movie the game leaves with a cliffhanging scene making you want more. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniRicanJunie
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  now we all know who has this game know its very action-packed because every where you go is action 
 like blam next room blam the weapons were real creative and the graphics were outstanding but they 
 should of had more use out of the controller then just shaking off fire or anything that sticks 
 on you but overall this is a good game but the story line could of been better but the weirdest 
 thing when i was playing the first time was the skill points because this thing would pop up and 
 say something and im like what is this so as i played on it got easier and i understood it better. 
 the onlineperspective of the game is very genius cause you have ranks and room joins its just like 
 socom but better graphics its fun online but after playing it day after day it gets less fun then 
 the first time you played. Isnt it true? but if reach the surpreme thats pretty much it you could 
 stop or when you get all the medals cause it doesnt ge any more fun then that but the game overall 
 is good but their should of been gor like the head pops of when you shoot it but even though their 
 are minor flaws this is a very decent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rock231992
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2007 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is is so much fun why???? I will tell you why. The story mode for this game is good but 
 on online is much more better. Because you can make your very own soldier. And I mean change his 
 clothes, face, helmet and many many more. On online you can get get ribbons to gain medal's nd when 
 you kill players online you get EXP to gain levels to unlock clothes, face, helmet and many many 
 more. The gameplay is a bit like Halo. The graphics for this game is very good but sometimes funny 
 {If you know what I mean????} . I give this a 9.6 out of 10 {Rock231992 sign out} 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Daniel_Thori
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 2, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I bought the PS3 march 23th here in europe and the games that i had to look forward to was motorstorm 
 and COD3, both average games.. but wtf i sold cod3 and bought resistance.. and it is the best fps 
 i have ever played! i hope that resistance will be with us a long time and that they will make 
 a big fat series with resistance games, and the multiplayer online mode is awesome to! gosh i am 
 like a heroin addict, i am scoring some resistance instead :D hhehe :D best game on the ps3 yet! 
 // Daniel Thorisson Icelandic maniac that lives in sweden! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skat137321
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 2, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Every little thing in this game is just amazing, beginning with the story which it's told in a 
 way you can't miss it, continuing with the gameplay and ending with the amazing graphics and sounds. 
 The sepia effect in the game creates the perfect atmosphere for fighting the Chimera and the continous 
 invasion of the Chimera doesn't allow you to put the controller down and take a break. One of the 
 key features of this game is the continous action which can really give you the feeling that there 
 actually is an invasion and you must stop it somehow. I must admit that I never thought that a 
 shooter can be so entertaining on the console, but R: FoM proved me wrong. The best thing about 
 the game is that once you finished the campaign for the first time you can replay it using new 
 weapons and if you are tired of playing offline you can go anytime online to compete with other 
 players around the world in the classical Unreal Tournament modes. Resistance: Fall of Man is a 
 game that you should not miss in case you own a PlayStation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawg49
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 9:10 pm PT
Review:  Resistence is one of those great first person shooters from insomniac games. This game is mostly 
 a throwback to first person shooters because insomniacs first first person shooter was a title 
 known a disruptor that was released when the ps1 was new in the market.
  
  This game has you playing a nathan hale who was once a soldier but gets infected by the chimera 
 virus and sets out during early 1950's to fight this race of creatures. What impressed me more 
 then anything was the creature creation. It was very unique and all the types you fight throughout 
 the adventure is overwhelming. I could go on with all the cool monsters but that would take up 
 alot of time to do.
  
  The weapons was also very unique as well. You get rocket launchers all the way to the chimera invented 
 guns to use against them. All of the weapons were very useful in different situations. Now the 
 quality of the game is what interrested me. The whole chimera invasion during the world war 2 era 
 is very well crafted and it was cool seeing the cinematics unfold as if it was told through an 
 old documentary.
  
  The graphics were well crafted too. Seeing this game playing in a 720 P ratio with an HDMI cable 
 is just amazing. The quality of the environments and creatures as well as weapons were outstounding. Also 
 the sound was great as well and was cleverly designed.
  
  The only thing I didnt like is that it ends and that theres no online for the co op mode and the 
 multiplayer doesnt have vehicular combat. Another thing is that at some points when you die by 
 getting overpowered by chimera creatures it can get frustrating especially when you dont have a 
 checkpoint
  
  .If you have ps3 then get this one because theres no other game out there like it yet for ps 3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snake12511
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 1, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  The best thing about Resistance: Fall of Man, is just about everything. Resistance has a great 
 storyline that makes you want to finish the Campaign the moment you start it.
  The graphics in the game are unbelievable everything and everyone looks so real, the action in 
 the game is intense because the A. I in Resistance is unlike anything i have ever seen from a console 
 game plus the guns are i joy to use.
  The reason why i love this game is it's online play, i love playing team Deathmatch and talking 
 to the other player at the same time, i also love the way you can setup a clan and just have fun 
 play it online.
  
  GET IT......... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JordGJ
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 1, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is an exciting action game that successfully combines many of the best qualities from 
 other great first-person shooters with its own spectacular visuals and a few novel twists. The 
 Good: Rock-solid design borrows the best aspects from the best first-person shooters; outstanding 
 presentation, featuring great weapons and believable environments; replayable campaign pits you 
 against an aggressive, fairly intelligent foe; fully featured multiplayer mode offers good variety 
 and supports up to 40 players. The Bad: Derivative visual style and gameplay is well crafted but 
 mostly unoriginal; the campaign's story and characters aren't well developed; two-player cooperative 
 mode isn't available online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukasN82
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 1, 2007 6:13 am PT
Review:  Alright, ps3's first FPS, first of all I would like to say that FPS are not my type of games or 
 at least until recently, Resistance is an exception, for it will keep you on your seat and keeps 
 you busy for hours. A very interesting concept, takes place around the 50's and yet have the feel 
 of 21st century and beyond. But what makes this game more fun than it looks is the weapons, from 
 shotguns to bullseye to hedgehogs, my fav (sorta pincushion that expands once thrown) The graphics 
 are slightly blend, but its a lauch game so this might change, the sound is amazing, matches everything 
 on the environment. Now comes the multiplayer, online is awesome, you'll earn points to lv, medals 
 to show off and ranking. Modes are from CTF, DM, TM, and so on. So start preparing for you will 
 be in for a wild ride! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gluonzabo
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 3, 2007 5:10 am PT
Review:  The best first person shooter I have ever played, this game has incredible graphics and sounds 
 that makes you feel like you are in your own movie.
  The graphics are the best graphics I've seen, the monsters looks awesome, and the level design 
 is just fantastic.
  
  The graphics are so much better and sharper then lots of first person shooters and the sounds makes 
 a great atmosphere,
  The gameplay is awesome too, you can play with many weapons that you collect during the game. The 
 controller makes the game even more realistic.
  
  You can actually shake the controller and it makes the monster get off of you while it's eating 
 you.
  The game is sometimes surprising with monsters from nowhere so it might be scary but I like it.........
 
  if you're thinking about getting a ps3 you should get this game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 9
Date: May 28, 2008 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man is Brilliant. Its one of the best games I have ever played on. It has a 
 great story, good graphics, epic gameplay and has everything a FPS should have. Graphics: Shows 
 you the true graphics of what the Next Generation Console is really like 9/10
  The gameplay is really fun and has intense action. You get a great varity of guns from the Bullseye 
 to the Reapers to the Carbone to the LAARK.
  You also get a varity of Grenades and get to ride a tank, a jeep, and of course the Stalker. The 
 graphics are good for the PS3s first game and the story is just what you would expect. Full of 
 twists and turns which lead at the end to a cliff hanger.
  If your a fan of FPS and just got a PS3 you will certainly enjoy this classic shooter.
  When 
 Resistance 2 comes out its going to be like the PS3s Halo
  My final rating is 9.2/10 PS3s first great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is an amazing first-person shooter for the PS3, and what I would say to 
 be the best game for the console yet. Although it's no Gears of War , it's still a great game to 
 play, either single-player, co-op, or just online with some friends. Not like other war games where 
 some missions are based off of stealth, or where you may only kill a few people every level, Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is a fast-paced game with trouble around every corner. The graphics are vivid, and 
 the sound is sharp. The only problem is the game becomes bland and dull rather quick, so you may 
 want to rent it before you go out and spend $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AntDaGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  This game has it all great online play, great offline play, Mutliplayer Campaigns offline. Its 
 just amazing. The graphics and details are very rich. The storyline is great. It mixes the Usual 
 combat games with a dose of drama and horror in this sci-fi action like game. It can scare you 
 and give you unbelievable war scenes at the same time. Just get this game its a must have on the 
 PS3. Makes a good first game. This game is also updatable and gets updates on different game modes 
 from time to time. Some matches are team some are vs free for all matches. Deathmatches will be 
 a favorite as you can respawn over and over during a time fram most points wins. The more points 
 you get will give you experience points for your online character which will move you up in rank. 
 Rank allows your character to be more durable in battle.
  
  Just Get IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpha11123
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I played this masterpice at a friends house and the next day I went out and bought a PS3 just so 
 I could play it! The more I play it, the more I like it! I have been playing online for about 3 
 months straight and I still can't get enough, I've never played a such a great game like before 
 this in my life! I'd say the best thing about this game is the online community. It has everything 
 you might need. Also, clans make the entire online community more competitive and exciting. I guess 
 I can expect the same thing with Resistance 2: Rise of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3kid1994
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 30, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  If you're going to make a first-person shooter, you might as well take aim to deliver the best 
 of what this style of gaming has to offer. That's what Ratchet &amp; Clank developer Insomniac 
 Games must have done with Resistance: Fall of Man. One of the most highly anticipated titles in 
 the PlayStation 3 launch lineup, Resistance is a technically impressive, well-designed, intense 
 action game that unmistakably draws inspiration from some of the finest recent examples of similar 
 games. Resistance doesn't attempt anything wildly different than other first-person shooters out 
 there, but by offering a strong selection of interesting weapons, plenty of ruthless foes to shoot 
 them at, good level design, and an excellent presentation, it accomplishes what most such games 
 fail to do. A fully featured multiplayer mode for up to 40 players rounds out an exciting campaign 
 in what's an all-around great effort and a promising example of what the PlayStation 3 can do. 
 Nathan Hale's got no time for chitchat. He'll combat the Chimera almost single-handedly in Resistance's 
 action-packed campaign. Resistance takes place in a grim alternate reality in which World War II 
 never happened, yet something possibly even worse happened instead. As political tensions run high 
 in the middle of the 20th century, a monstrous race of horrifying creatures suddenly shows up and 
 starts killing everyone. Initially presumed to be a Russian biological weapon, this fiendish species 
 is known as the Chimera. It quickly overwhelms Asia and most of Europe before it focuses attention 
 on the United Kingdom. In the game, you play as a no-nonsense American soldier named Nathan Hale, 
 who is sent in to reinforce the UK's defenses. A brush with death early on gives Hale a unique 
 perspective of his foe and, before long, he's lone-wolfing it against the worst that the Chimera 
 has to offer. As Hale, you'll blast your way through the devastated streets of England and also 
 find yourself deep within the enemy's own territory as you struggle to survive and turn the tide 
 of a losing battle. The story is told from the perspective of a different officer who briefly interacts 
 with Hale during his missions against a seemingly unstoppable enemy. Her solemn narration is easy 
 enough to follow but not particularly engaging because by her own admission, she doesn't really 
 know what's going on in Hale's head or what's going on with the Chimera. Brief but nicely done 
 cinematic cutscenes using the game's 3D engine at least serve to give Nathan Hale a believably 
 concerned look between battles. Still black-and-white images and charts that are made to look as 
 if they could have come from the early '50s also help set the mood and premise of each level in 
 the game's more than 10 main stages. However, the story in Resistance is there mostly to justify 
 a number of fairly conventional, though very well done, first-person shooter battles. You'll learn 
 a bit about the Chimera as you fight, and there's some resolution once you finally finish the campaign 
 after countless grueling shoot-outs. But Hale's character is never developed and he almost never 
 speaks, and the plot has some noticeable gaps. Ultimately, this is a game whose personality mostly 
 comes across when you're shooting something. The Chimera and their ugly spider-like features make 
 them easy to hate straightaway. Resistance controls just like other first-person shooters on consoles. 
 You use the two analog sticks to move and aim, while the left and right shoulder buttons trigger 
 your weapon's primary and alternate firing modes. The game takes a few small liberties with certain 
 conventions, but none that will substantially change how you'll play it if you're used to playing 
 similar stuff. Some of these tweaks to the formula have to do with how you recover your health 
 between shoot-outs. In Resistance's campaign, your health bar is divided up into four quadrants, 
 which automatically recharges up to the nearest quadrant if you avoid getting hit for a little 
 while. This isn't quite like what's become trendy because of games such as the sequels to Halo 
 or Call of Duty, in which your health recharges completely between firefights. Here, when your 
 health is low, you can still survive the typical encounter but you'll really need to be on your 
 guard. Also, unlike in those games, Resistance lets you pick up and carry each new weapon you find, 
 which may not seem as realistic as having room for only a few guns, but it means you get an increasingly 
 powerful, all-purpose arsenal at your disposal. The game transparently saves your progress as you 
 fight through the campaign and uses a checkpoint system in mid-mission. Checkpoints can be fairly 
 sparse at times, creating tension and the need to replay some tough battles repeatedly. But because 
 the combat is dynamic and exciting, having to do this usually isn't a bad thing. However, the game 
 does get almost punishingly hard near the end at the default difficulty setting, forcing a little 
 too much trial and error. There's an easier and a harder difficulty setting as well. Conventional 
 shooter controls that are matched with some unconventional weapons and unusually good graphics 
 make Resistance feel familiar but distinct. It's worth noting that the motion sensor in the PS3's 
 stock Sixaxis controller is put to limited but oddly likable use in this game. For instance, there's 
 this one ghoulish Chimera creature that attempts to sidle up to you and grab you by the throat. 
 Should you let this happen, you can shake the controller to break free from its grip. Because this 
 effect is used sparingly, it's surprising and effective. In multiplayer matches, you might also 
 catch fire if you're torched by an enemy flamethrower. You can't stop, drop, and roll, but by shaking 
 the Sixaxis, you can put the flames out. It's a simple, fairly intuitive way to make you feel a 
 bit more connected to what's happening onscreen. What helps to distinguish Resistance from other 
 first-person shooters is the quality of its weapon design, its enemy artificial intelligence, and 
 its presentation. While these aspects of the game are not substantially different or vastly superior 
 to what's been done before, they're right up there with the best of what such games have had to 
 offer. Resistance doesn't include any real-world weaponry but lets you brandish an impressive variety 
 of powerful make-believe automatics and energy weapons, many of which have imaginative alternate-firing 
 modes. Your starting weapon, a powerful rapid-firing rifle with a 50-round clip and a mounted grenade 
 launcher, will be a mainstay throughout the campaign. You'll also quickly find the Chimeran equivalent, 
 called the bullseye. This is an energy rifle that has the unique ability to fire homing beacons, 
 which causes all of your bullets to zero in on those beacons. So it's possible for you to tag an 
 enemy, then step behind cover and fire straight into the air as those shots automatically change 
 trajectory to find their mark. Another remarkable weapon is the auger, a massive rifle whose shots 
 burrow straight through solid surfaces, making them very difficult to evade. Better yet, the auger 
 can form an energy barrier to protect the user against incoming fire. You'll gain a real appreciation 
 for this fearsome weapon during the campaign. Not all of the weapons are noteworthy because the 
 lineup includes your fairly typical shotgun, sniper rifle, rocket launcher, and so on. Interestingly, 
 when you finish the campaign for the first time, you'll unlock some additional weapons that you 
 can find if you go through it again. You can also find these in the game's multiplayer mode. If 
 there's an issue with the game's guns, it's that you wind up depending on the first two weapons 
 most of the time. Each of these weapons is a fairly standard point-and-shoot affair, so it's perfectly 
 effective to just stick a target in your reticle and go full-auto on it. Resistance definitely 
 has more of a run-and-gun feel to it than a deliberately paced, tactical shooter. However, you 
 still need to inch your way into enemy territory. You'll also need to use grenades to disrupt enemy 
 formations because getting surrounded by your enemies brings swift death and a visit back to the 
 nearest checkpoint. Resistance winds up feeling quite a bit like the Halo games in how it balances 
 a simple, action-packed style of shooting with a basic need to frequently take a defensive position 
 and wait for opportunities against entrenched foes. The chimera aptly fit the profile of your typically 
 ugly, nasty monstrous menace. The game presents the Chimera as a virtually unstoppable foe, while 
 Nathan Hale seems uniquely capable of surviving their attacks. In reality, they're not quite as 
 tough as they look -- some concentrated gunfire will bring any of them down eventually. You'll also 
 pick up on how heavily injured Chimera troopers tend to stagger to their knees, which is the perfect 
 time for you to finish them off and the wrong time to move on to the next target. You'll face a 
 variety of Chimera during the course of the game, including some very predictable spider-like things 
 that burst forth from egg sacs and rush you mindlessly. The vast majority of the time, however, 
 you'll be fighting squads of Chimeran hybrids. Typically armed with bullseye rifles, these soldiers 
 are quite effective at using cover, as well as flanking and rushing tactics. They'll also flush 
 you out of hiding with one of their hedgehog grenades, which send deadly needles flying in every 
 direction when they explode. Fighting against the hybrids grows to feel a bit monotonous in spots 
 because they're by far the most common type of foe you'll face. Yet it's a testament to the quality 
 of the game's artificial intelligence and presentation that battling these forces is often quite 
 thrilling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yugular
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 26, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  R: FoM turns out a good opportunity to enjoy a good one for shooter in first person in the new 
 console of Sony. It is a very dynamic game with many changes of style which causes that it is difficult 
 to become bored until finishing it. That yes, a point to take care of in a possible sequel is more 
 the one of its level of difficulty, as before we commented, by the different fluctuation that exists 
 between its levels. The initial phase where they begin to tell history us is quite complicated 
 for an average player until we gained the ability to regenerate the vitality of the personage, 
 falling this until the minimum. This stays thus until arriving approximately at 50% of game where 
 such enemy with the same arms they are much more hard that at the outset to act of more intelligent 
 form and to shoot many more bullets than initially, being from here where really the diversion 
 begins. One of these initial phases is the one that we can prove in demo of PlayStation Store, 
 which can do that any player who throws a look to him he removes an idea different from which the 
 complete game offers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gimlifn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 25, 2007 11:46 pm PT
Review:  To start off I have played gears of war alot and decided this game would be a good shooter to try 
 on the PS3. The graphics on this game are great, the explosions of grenades and the flying of chimera 
 bodies is very realistic and not as much a joke such as on Gears of War which everything just blows 
 to bits. The main strong point in this game is the different weaponry and the actually interesting 
 story line. The story is a substitute for if WWII had never happened and that makes it interesting 
 in itself. The graphics are very good and are a real strong point in the game but the place where 
 Resistance falls short is in the way you play the game and the format of the game, its very similar 
 to Call of Duty games only better weapons, graphics, and storyline. I would definately reccomend 
 this game to any PS3 user, also the online multiplayer is very good with no lag and the maps are 
 quite enjoyable to play on. Good game but not the amazing FPS changer that everyone expected, but 
 after all it is a launch title and in that respect it is a really good game and should not be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StanBlocker
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 25, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Every console launch needs a game that shows what the new machine is capable of. With that in mind 
 Resistance Fall of Man from Insomniac Games was Sony's big launch hope. A first-person shooter 
 set in an alternate history where WW2 didn't happen and an alien race has invaded earth, Resistance 
 features solid next-gen visuals, tight gameplay and some great online support. At around the middle 
 of this alternate 20th Century a vile alien race known as the Chimera invades earth and starts 
 killing off humans. You play as Nathan Hale, an 'all guns blazing' American soldier who is sent 
 over to the UK in order to bolster British defences against the growing Chimera threat. Throughout 
 the game you move across the British Isles, taking on the alien scum and delving deeper into the 
 inner workings of their race.
  
  Coming from the development studio behind Ratchet &amp; Clank, weapons unsurprisingly play a big 
 part in Resistance. Although set in a time that would usually prevent the use of technologically 
 advanced weapons, Insomniac's decision to create a fictional history has allowed them to be rather 
 experimental. You'll run into some standard looking firearms, but most cater for the sci-fi crowd, 
 featuring primary and secondary fire modes that often verge on genius. There's a certain amount 
 of fun to be gained by discovering some of the more exotic weapons yourself, but I can't review 
 the game without mentioning the awesome fuel grenades - throw one into a crowded area and watch 
 as gas spreads before igniting and torching all caught in the explosion. There are so many weapons 
 that it's unlikely you'll get to use them all fully on your first run through and new weapons can 
 be used once you've beaten the game for the first time. Enemies, too, vary quite wildly, from the 
 small and scurrying to the large and powerful.
  
  All this would count for nothing if the gameplay didn't hold up, but thankfully it does. Compared 
 to classic console shooters like Halo and Gears of War, Resistance is a much faster game, and feels 
 far closer to older PC titles in terms of pacing. Enemies can be taken out in numerous ways and 
 the AI is competent, but Resistance comes to life in set pieces. You get less original 'wow' moments, 
 the kind you get in AI focussed titles like F. E. A. R., but the campaign is never dull and throws 
 more and more at you until it's all over. Difficulty levels rarely spike unfairly, but on occasion 
 a checkpoint placement will force you to replay a fairly lengthy section numerous times. On the 
 whole, though, Resistance is challenging but rarely annoying.
  
  If there's one area that lets Resistance down it's the way the story and campaign is structured. 
 There is a story that runs throughout the entire game, told through cutscenes, but it's the way 
 levels end that causes the problems. You'll be fighting off enemies, perhaps even blasting through 
 barriers in a tank, and then the screen will blur and it'll be the end of the level. At times the 
 end will come rather out of the blue, at points where you're having fun and expecting an intense 
 shoot-out or similar. When the screen blurs and you're shown a cutscene this excitement is shot 
 in the foot. It's something that might not bother some players, but it makes the game feel rather 
 disjointed.
  
  Being one of Sony's key titles you'd expect Resistance to lead the pack in terms of presentation 
 and it certainly doesn't disappoint, although it won't excite Xbox 360 gamers as much as PlayStation 
 fans who have chosen the PS3 as their debut next-gen console. The game has a unique look due to 
 the real-world setting that's been mixed with alien technology. Alien structures litter war-torn 
 towns and cities, and the sense of scale in some areas is astounding. The setting might be based 
 in reality, but so many fresh ideas have gone into the design that it feels completely original. 
 When you do finish the single-player campaign (playable in split-screen co-op too) , which will 
 take a little longer than you probably expect, Resistance includes a fully featured online multiplayer 
 mode to get stuck into. Sony's online service still lacks many of Xbox Live's leading features, 
 but 40-player online matches can't be sniffed at. Because of this large player limit the maps on 
 offer vary quite wildly in size, with some catering for smaller 8-16 player games while others 
 have to house the full 40 players.
  
  As well as standard detahmatch, team deathmatch and capture the flag game types, Resistance bolsters 
 its online offering with 'Conversion', a mode not too dissimilar to last man standing-style game 
 modes from other shooters, and two assault modes. These two modes make players battle for control 
 points in the map and will feel familiar to players of Unreal Tournament's Onslaught game mode. 
 The Chimera is also a playable race online, and they have their own specific nuances, making them 
 more than simply another model skin. Matchmaking and general multiplayer features are excellent 
 too, with ranked and unranked matches, clan support, friends list and a party system for playing 
 with a group of friends. While all these features would have been better had they been built into 
 the PlayStation 3 online service as a whole, Insomniac should still be applauded for including 
 such thorough online support and functionality.
  
  Resistance is unlikely to be remembered as fondly as shooters that will arrive later in the PlayStation 
 3's life, but as a launch game it ticks all the boxes. It looks great, features an action packed 
 campaign, includes some splendid online support and generally points towards a great future for 
 action games on the system. If you're picking up a PlayStation 3 Resistance Fall of Man should 
 be high on your must buy list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spectrual92
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great release for the PS3. It have its pros and cons but overall the 
 game is fun and has a great lasting value.
  
  Pros: The game was very fun to play and there are many great and innovative ideas for weapons and 
 enemies. The enemies were smart overall and responsive. One of the highlights off this game is 
 the multiplay action. The many styles of multiplayer, size of the servers, and amount of people 
 playing all add up to make a really intense online multiplayer experiance. The graphics were nice 
 and playing Resistance with the volume pumped up can really immerse you into the gaming experiance. 
 The single player missions were very fun and the amount of action going on all at once really helps 
 make a more fun and immersive playing field.
  
  Cons: Although I took the time to separate the missions and take this game a little more slowly 
 than I ussually do, to most of the gamers these days this game would have been short. Although 
 the graphics were nice they could have been better. Although you can tell its a next-gen title, 
 it still doesn't seems like it was too much over last-gen and didn't really meet next-gen expectations. 
 The game also didn't seem interactable enough internally and externally. Internally, yes, you can 
 shoot things and they explode but it didn't seem like it was any different than most FPS. Externally, 
 the sixaxis controls seemed a bit tacked on.
  
  Overall: Resistance is definatly a game to have in your collection, but if you want good sixaxis 
 control, superb graphics that make you get off your feet, or being interactable with the game then 
 take a second thought of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastershake341
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 23, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is great .Great graphics, story, music, and online play. I wish there were more online 
 maps, characters, weapons. You should buy this game. Fun weapons to play with and large areas and 
 fun areas to use them in. People should share this game with their friends and they should play 
 this game with their freinds. Anyone who plays this game will enjoy this game. People should play 
 the story mode and play online. This game is the perfect game for a birthday gift or any kind of 
 gift or buy this game at anytime. Buy this game immediatly and as soon as possible. This game is 
 one of the best games out there on the market and it is worth the price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino-sideras
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 23, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  resistance: fall of man is a brilliant game overall and totally worth buying but here are some 
 bad features..
  
  The Good:
  
  Great online, keeps you playing for ages
  Great variety of good weapons
  Co-operative is very good, most games lack that
  
  The Bad:
 
  Graphics aint all that, explosions of bombs etc dont impress me at all
  Visuals of characters are still better in the cutscenes then gameplay
  Graphics not developed 
 enough for the ps3's potential
  
  Although there are these bad points i still enjoy the game but also looking for another great FPS 
 that offers the same features but with better graphics and visuals. its a great game but not the 
 best and i feel with a little more time they could have made this game not only a great game but 
 a fantastic one up in the 9 ratings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pete5506
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  All last week my friend let me use his ps3 and I almost spent all my time playing this game. Resistance: 
 Fall of Man, is the best game out on the ps3 right now. This game has everything a person who loves 
 fps wants. With a super fun and sorta long story, lots of guns, and lots of things to shoot. This 
 game has some of the best graphics I have ever seen and I love my PC and my 360 but I have to say 
 this game tops them both graphics wise. The gameplay was good not what I am use to, since it is 
 a ps3 controller and not the 360. The sound was the best part I could hear everything I wanted 
 to just fine. If I had to go out and buy this game I would even with the 60$ dollor price tag. 
 Now I am not a ps3 person but playing this game has changed my mine about the ps3 and now I have 
 to go out and get one just to play this game. THanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongeidiot_ss2
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2007 11:00 pm PT
Review:  This Insomniac Game Is really Great.
  
  Summary : The Game Is Resisitance Fall Of Man. It Includes A great Storyline , Intense Action , 
 Great Gameplay and Alot Of Stuff that has brought me to happiness by Buying This Game.
  
  Awards : Right Now All I know That It Won An Award For Best shooter game in the PS3.
  
  StoryLine 
 : You Must Fight Creatures Called The Chimera .
  You Are Nathan Hale A Sergeant in the 1st Regiment Of the United States Army Rangers. Your Objective 
 Is to Destroy The Chimera Virus Before It Conquers the World.
  
  Sound : The Loud Explosions , The Bullets Being Shot I don't even Have to Explain more but just 
 to Say The Sound Is Great.
  
  Value : Buy This A True PS3 Gamer Should Buy This. Graphics : The Graphics hmmmmm Yes The Graphics 
 Are Great Think About it ITS THE PS3!! Online Multiplayer : There Is alot of fun and action Cause 
 The Limit Of The No of player is 40!!
  There are Ranking levels To Keep YOu Coming Back to play resistance fall of man.
  There are alot 
 of Medals For you to Be Awarded like The Helping Hand Medal.
  Badges.... The Are Alot Of Badge Awards Like The Auger Master badge.
  
  Conclusion : I Highly 
 Recommend You Getting this game for the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enriquecruz
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 20, 2007 7:38 am PT
Review:  This game is great and if you are a PS3 onwer this is a must-have since its is the best game out 
 there for now.
  The game is great in evry aspect you see the graphics are stunning, although there are some stray 
 lowres texture here and there but besisdes that the graphical presentation is amazing.
  The sound and voces are good and they fit well within the game.
  The game play is good but it 
 isnt innovative, it uses the good sutff from most of the FPS games already out ther wich ius great 
 but on its own it doesent give much new.
  Finally the multiplayer wich is astonishing since it gives you the chan to play with 40 people 
 onlin eat the same time, the multiplayer is virtually lag free and it gives the game much more 
 playing time onces youve finished the single player campain.
  To summarize, if you are a play station owner looking for the best game out there look no more, 
 this is IT 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DI3HARDGAM3R
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 17, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  The PS3 has only been out a half a year and this game has come out on top. It is one of the best 
 launch games for any system and is highly addictive and worth the money. The graphics are just 
 about perfect and highly detailed just what you would expect on PS3. So far, the online play is 
 much better than expected. The maximum amount of players per room is forty which is a lot compared 
 to many games that play online. I have not experienced any lag even in a full room. The single 
 player is fairly long and hard at times; takes about 15-20 hours to beat depending on the difficulty 
 setting. The replay value is high in my opinion since the online has many maps to play. I don't 
 think I have even played them all yet. The single player game is worth playing for a second time 
 if you beat it, but I probably wouldn't play it again after two times. I love the variety of guns 
 you get to use in the game and you unlock new guns after you beat the game. My only complaint is, 
 although it is minor, it would be nice to see Sony add some downloadable content for the game since 
 it was so popular and there aren't many things to download on the PS store for add ons to games. 
 A fantastic game that can't be missed. I play the game all the time, so if you want to add me as 
 a buddy and play, my PS username is:
  xX_GAM3_B0Y_Xx (the o in boy is a zero) Final score- 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samyyo1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 11, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  lets just take a second... breathe... and WOW
  that game was better than expected.
  i seriously could not believe how good it was.
  Best sound ive ever heard in a game. Well first 
 of all, the first level you play on doesnt have that much action going on, well it does, but once 
 u see the later levels, youl know what i mean,
  Ai is really intelligent. really sick guns. and deffinately. not too easy. First time i played was 
 on medium difficulty, and it was pretty challenging
  the best aspect of this game. is the multiplayer. its INCREDIBLE!!!
  deffinately shows off the 
 systems power.40 people shooting at eachother in all directions can be a be pretty intense. the 
 game NEVER LAGS.
  i dont understand how, but even if ur playing online on a slow internet connection, its still fast.
 
  For any noobs at this game. Play the story mode before playing the online mode (great practice)
 
  
  So the game starts you out as nathan hale, a soldier, bla bla bla... and hes basicaly the best on 
 the team. but, hes just an ordinary (American) foot soldier. who can definately be spared. but with 
 time, proves himself, and shows that he can whoop chimeran ass.
  The story mode starts very straight forward, u get off of a plane, and go straight into action, clashing 
 with Hybrid chimera.
  
  The game is deffinately worth everypenny. It was the first game i ever got for ps3, and i was really 
 impressed
  
  Overall its just a really fun experience. Please let me know what u think of this review, since 
 im 14 ,hoping for some positive feedback lol CAUTION. SLIGHT SPOILER
  ******
  *****
  ****
  ***
  **
  *
  By the way this game ended, im definately expecting a sequal 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 16, 2007 6:29 pm PT
Review:  I just finished playing this, my first game for my new PS3, and it was a great time. It probably 
 took me about 20 hours total (on easy) or about 10 days real time to play thru the single player 
 campaign.
  
  It was the first game in a long time where I actually woke up early to get a level in before I 
 had to leave for work. They really managed to hook me and draw me into playing almost non-stop.
 
  
  Technically it was great, no complaints about the controls. The story was pretty good, but it could 
 have been deeper and a little more fleshed out. It was a little too obvious they were setting things 
 up for a sequel.
  
  I guess my only complaint was I just didn't feel very connected to my almost mute character. It 
 would have been nicer to see him talk or act a little more than the silent brooding character they 
 created for us to play. He made a couple of grunts, that took me a while to realize it was my character, 
 but that was about it.
  
  It could have also been just a little bit longer for $60, I was kind of surprised I was at the 
 end already when it was over.
  
  But I just really enjoyed the Can't Stop Playing gameplay, and really look forward to a sequel.
 
  
  I even played a couple games on online deathmatch, something I never really enjoy, and it was a 
 lot of fun, and easy to jump into here.
  
  In Summary, the best, and first, game I've played on the PS3 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xaovagon
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:10 pm PT
Review:  the day i got my PS3 i was estatic and then i got Resistance fall of man as the first game the 
 following day, and when i first played it i was surrounded by marines screaming at me and a helicopter 
 blowing up over my head....
  and then the next 3 days i played it until it was beat, then i beat it 3 more times and on super 
 human mode. and i would have to conclude that Resistance Fall of man delivers. and it took the 
 360 a year to get the awesome Gears of war, and right on launch sony gave us an amazing game. and 
 it has awesome graphics, tons o guns, and a game that will keep you playing for hours Sony Rocks!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer07
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 15, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, I bought my PS3 back on February 16, 2007, I knew for a fact that one game I would pick up 
 for sure was Resistance: Fall of Man. I thought First person shooters would never make it on a 
 play station system. From the first person shooters I have played on the Play station and the play 
 station 2. They were not that good. Resistance for surely proved me wrong. The many positives for 
 this game included the story, very good and the game length is very good, keeps you busy for hours. 
 The weapons, it was made by the people who made Ratchet and clank so you know you are in for a 
 treat. The enemies and A. I is also very well done. the only down side for me is the multi player, 
 for me it just got very boring and bland after a while. At first the multi player is very fun, 
 supporting up to 40 players. I just found other games with better multi player. I started my next 
 generation life with the X box 360 so I am very into achievement points, so when i stated playing 
 this I was happy to see that there was skill points that you get that act just like achievement 
 points. So, over all every PS3 owner has played this game, so I am just adding to this game's fire! 
 it's a great game and anyone can pick up and play this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meme15220
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:34 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man Is simply put, the best fpp I have ever played. When I first poped Resistane 
 in my new ps3, I never would of known I'd be addicted for the next four months. The first player 
 game is hardly shallow as history the history books gets re-written, you will find yourself in 
 many different envioments, picking up extemely well thought out weapons, and a whole lot more. 
 The online multiplayer will not fall short of your expectations either. Infact, it will prbably 
 exeed them. This game is absolutly amazing, and definitly should not be over looked. The best launch 
 tile ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pdizzie
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:20 am PT
Review:  This is a top notch video game, it's lengthy, fun, has an extremely enjoyable multiplayer aspect 
 and a deep and involving storyline that'll keep you playing through out the night. I would not 
 have imagined in a million years Gamespot giving this game less than Gears Of War, especially seeing 
 as GOW is short and less involving and that's one more reason why Blu Ray will win. Anyway, this 
 game is THE game to own if you have a Playstation 3, Gorgeous visual effects serenade you as you 
 use the cleverly designed weapons getting stunning results. The campaign mode keeps you playing 
 trough it over and over again, it seldom tends to bore you. The only reason that this game did'nt 
 get a 10 was because it tends to overwhelm you too much with intimidating enemies that are overly 
 difficult to defea twhich sometimes tend to slow the game to a crawl as you get more and more frustrated. 
 This game gets a well deserved 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3gamer123
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 21, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  At first glance the game does look and feel like a Call of Duty (CoD) game; only difference is 
 that it takes place during the 20th century in a alternate universe where the world is being ravaged 
 by an alien invasion courtesy of a hostile race called the Chimera whose soul aim is ... you guessed 
 it, world domination and its upto Sgt. Nathan Hale ...
  
  Not only does FoM look like a CoD game but it even plays like one to a certain extent (except you 
 have butt ugly aliens instead of annoying Nazis) where youll fight wave after wave of hostile 
 Chimera who come in different shapes and sizes (from your run of the mill grunts to weird spider 
 like creatures and lots more) . While this may sound pretty simple on paper, playing the game like 
 John Rambo will get you killed before you know it; this game is tough (even on medium difficulty) 
 since the Chimera arent fuelled by your standard brain dead AI found in most shooters today; they 
 will duck, take cover, flank and do their level best to make your life a living hell. But anyway 
 buy it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrngod
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the game that made me convince myself it was ok to buy a PS3 in January after the launch. 
 For the most part I am happy with my decision. This game is not a classic in my opinion. Good, 
 but not classic.
  
  Resistance is a great game and the perfect example of what any company would want to launch along 
 side their console. It looks next-gen and packs in a lot of fun, but it just doesn't quite capture 
 the entire feeling for what I was expecting next-gen to be.
  
  Let me start off with the good stuff, then I will commence with the trashing. For starters this 
 game looks fantastic. The textures are really nice, the animation quality is great, and the style 
 throughout the game is consistent and really well done. Setting a One man vs. the alien horde game 
 during the WWII era could have been done really badly. Insomniac got a lot of the feeling that 
 you get in the recent WWII shooters and still managed to mix in some typical alien blasting carnage 
 without going completely out of whack or overboard.
  
  My absolutely #1 favorite thing about this game is the story. The in engine cutscenes mixed with 
 1940's style artwork is done extremely well. If it weren't for the story I might not have finished 
 this game. I had to see how it ended. In between significant fights there is almost always some 
 sort of story progression via a female narrator that is explaining her perspective on what she 
 knows about the main character. The story makes sense, isn't too convaluted and keeps pace with 
 the gameplay. Even my girlfriend would stop what she was doing to watch the story portions anytime 
 they came up.
  
  The gameplay itself is pretty solid. The key to having a good FPS is having good weapons to use. 
 Insomniac seems to have carved out a nice reputation for weapon crafting through their Ratchet 
 and Clank series, and this tradition continues into Resistance. Each weapon feels unique and like 
 it has a specific purpose. Every single weapon will be utilized quite well at different points 
 in the game. Take out any of these weapons, and certain spots in the game would be dramatically 
 more difficult, to the point that I probably would have given up. Every time I got stuck at some 
 point the frustration would roll in and then I would stop and ask myself which weapon I hadn't 
 tried yet. Almost every single time this is what would help me get through.
  
  All of the weapons are equiped with a secondary mode of fire that is mapped to the L1 button. The 
 marine machine gun launches grenades, and the alien equivalent launches a tag that attracts any 
 regular shots to it for a short time. Shooting around corners = way freakin cool. At first it's 
 a little tough to get used to tagging things, but once you get the hang of it you will use it all 
 the time. This is especially helpful for those few targets that only sit still long enough to get 
 one shot off (the tag) and would otherwise be impossible to keep aimed on.
  
  The grenades are even creative. There are three times. One is the typical frag (boring) . Another 
 is called the Hedgehog (pretty cool) , and the 3rd is the Airfuel grenades (Way freakin cool) . The 
 Hedgehogs explode and shoot spikes in every direction all around them. For the most part they function 
 a lot like the frag grenades in that they do damage all around them, but they look cool when they 
 do it. The airfuel grenades stick to whatever the land on, walls included, spray a greenish cloud 
 of gas into the air, and then light the gas on fire. The effect is quite cool, and extremely satisfying 
 to throw into a crowd of enemies. I got a rush each and every single time I threw one. I always 
 knew how many I had and would always save them for the perfect time.
  
  The sound in this game is really good. If you are lucky to have surround sound you will get quite 
 a benefit out of it since the directional audio is done so well. Each weapon also sounds very unique 
 and practically replaces the Sixaxis' lack of rumble. The alien's rifle especially gets this accross. 
 The sound that comes along with shooting it really fills in the gap that rumble left behind when 
 it disappeared.
  
  
  The single player campaign is pretty lengthy. There are around a dozen or so chapters that are 
 all split up into a handful of stretches of gameplay. The story progresses quite a bit between 
 chapters, but also has progression between sections. You start off the first level in a very typical 
 looking WWII type shooter level, and by the end you are deeply immersed in the alien architecture 
 and settings. The levels all have a pretty unique feel to them and are laid out just right for 
 this type of game. However about 60% of the way through the game the gameplay starts to get a bit 
 old. At this point you will have aquired almost all of the weapons, and the seen just about all 
 the enemies will ever throw at you, save for a few surprises in the very last stretch of the game. 
 Overall about 20% of the gameplay could have been trimmed and not really missed. I managed to get 
 over 20 hours of game time in, and this is more then enough to keep me happy with a single player 
 game.
  
  There are collectables in this game as well. How could a game get released and not have collectables? 
 Throughout the game there are pieces of Intel that you pick up. Sometimes they are just a little 
 bit of the linear trail, and sometimes they are right in the middle of it. The reward you get for 
 collecting them is a little tidbit of story progression that isn't directly required for the main 
 story line. A lot of them just provide clues as to what the Chimera (the alien dudes) have done 
 to get into the situation that the game sets up. They are a nice touch to the overall game, and 
 add a little extra layer of excitement whenever you find a new one.
  
  Some complaints about the level design are the level of interaction with the environments. Sure 
 there are elevators and doors and stuff like that, but that's about it. You spend a good chunk 
 of the game walking past all kinds of crazy alien buildings but don't really get to interact with 
 them too much. And when you do, like driving the alien spider tanks, it just feels half baked. 
 None of the non-FPS sections of the game feel up to par with the rest of the game. They simply 
 feel out of place. There are a few driving sequences that are really short, and very clunky. The 
 jeep driving in the game is just horrible and should have been removed. This is the kind of interaction 
 I was referring to a bit earlier, but there isn't enough of it, and what is there, is done poorly.
 
  
  Another major missing aspect of environmental interaction would be the lack of distructable objects. 
 Seems a bit pre-last-gen to have nothing explode when hit by a rocket. Maybe this would have been 
 added if the game had more time in development,, maybe not. This type of thing seems like it should 
 be standard in all next-gen games.
  
  Another lacking aspect of this game is what happens to the enemies when you kill them. Sure blowing 
 them up and blasting their faces (that's trademarked kids) is a ton of fun, but each and every 
 enemy dies the same way. They just slump to the ground. Maybe a grenade throws them up in the air 
 a bit, but after that gravity takes over and they slump to the ground in somewhat of an odd manner. 
 When you shoot your targets you will see some blood splatter, but it feels half-baked and nothing 
 actually explodes. Sniping enemies in the head produces a short burst of blood, then they slump 
 right to the ground, head intact. Not cool. I am a huge fan of animation in games, which is different 
 then graphics, and when I see half-baked animation I just get dissapointed.
  
  The mutliplayer is pretty good as well. If you are a fan of online FPS games then this will feel 
 right about in the middle of the wide range of FPS games available. The pacing is right between 
 Halo 2 and Unreal Tournament. Pretty fast, but not mindblowinglyomgIdied6times fast. The multiplayer 
 maps are sometimes ripped right out of the single player campaign. A few are also simply structured 
 to capture the feel of a particular level, but do not match them exactly. Overall they are a lot 
 of fun. Good luck finding anyone else using a headset though. The end result means a lot of run 
 and gunning, and very little team effort.
  
  You may be wondering why I scored a 7 for value after saying the game was a bit long. A few reasons 
 really. Most of which being that this is supposed to be a next-gen game, and it was priced accordingly 
 ($60 ding!!) . However it didn't quite carry through with the next-gen promises. If I am going to 
 be paying extra for a next-gen game, AND buying a big phatty console to play it on, I better get 
 some next-gen goodness through and through. Unfortunately this is not the case. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NavySeal-103
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 22, 2007 7:39 am PT
Review:  Ok... so Resistance fall of man is one of the first games what came to PS3. Resistance fall of 
 man has good graphics and sounds. What can be boring in this game is that it's just one regular 
 first person shooter game with awesome graphics. This game is just like KillZone or Halo but I 
 think that Resistance fall of man is more mysterious than many other first person shooter games. 
 Story is ok but it coud be better. Resistance fall of man is all most a game called ''single man 
 army'' but in the game you will find big battles with your allies. The game has many weapons and 
 your able to carry all of them ! There are many interesting weapons and every weapon has secondary 
 fire. I think there is about 30 weapon and about 5 grenade sorry when I have bad memory xD. Multiplayer 
 offers a lot. There are enough maps and game modes. So if you have a PS3 or about to get one and 
 you don't know what to buy Resistance fall of man is THE game for you. Of course if you like shooting 
 games :)
  About the difficulty game is easy with easy and with normal it's fun to play but you need to be 
 careful... and with hard you need to keep your head down and think before act. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untainted
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  This games has it akll great graphics a good story mode, buckets of guns and loads of neat ideas. 
 It takes a step bck from some of the more tactical based shooters of late and obviously takles 
 it's cue from games like Doom 3 and prey. where it supercedes those games is in terms of it's graphical 
 achievments and the intelligence of the enemy AI. The multiplayer is also evident of having gone 
 back to it's roots with fast responsive controls and an itchy trigger finger taking precedence 
 over knowing each map backwards. If this had come out before GoW no doubt we would be seeing 9 and 
 ten scores, unfortunately some of the impact of the games visulas have suffered. Too many pale 
 knobbly aliens and war torn streets maybe?
  
  Still this is a game that has a lot of depth and will keep you going long after you've lapped rockhopper 
 on Motorstorm for the ninth time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carterhc
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 11, 2007 9:27 am PT
Review:  this is the first came i played on the PS3 and well i was really please with my experience
  
  gamplay 8/10
  the game was really well paced with introduction to certain areas of the game 
 and a good balance between tactical situations and all out bombardments. The health bar might seem 
 old, but gives me more of a realistic touch than anything graphics 9/10
  i was pretty impressed with the graphics, but it was not the best that ive seen. Still it was at 
 the top of my list. The whole feel and color of the game made the graphics feel alot better if 
 they went with no tint
  
  control 8/10
  after learning to use the large amounts of guns collected, this game takes off, R2 button to open 
 up a guns menu is nice to have. Other than that more generic controls, which still works greats.
 
  
  storyline 8/10
  no WW2, well here comes the chimera, this felt like a story built out of world war 2. instead of 
 shooting nazi's you shoot ugly, tough chimera. The story seemed a bit reused as a evil empire tries 
 to take over, but it runs pretty well and interesting as you playing Hale. Did i feel like i was 
 Hale, NO. the gameplay needed somin more than just spawning another member in co-op without adding 
 him to the story. did i feel like i was in a war, YES.
  
  best feature
  guns arsenal, WOW, i think this is the best arsenal of guns and grenades i have used in any game. 
 the lock on chimera gun, the hedgehog grenade, the auger wow every gun is a new experience. The 
 health bar might seem a step back from a fading red screen in health, but it totally adds another 
 element to the game. WIth only regenerating to one of the 4 bars. This makes the game alot mor 
 realistic, now you just cant go on a rampage, shoot like a maniac retreat, gain full health and 
 do it all other again.
  
  for a first person shooter, which i tend to shy away from, i am very pleased with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WeiCaoCao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 10:40 pm PT
Review:  i have played many first person shooters from the bond games- even the first couple Turok games. 
 They where always fun at parties and stuff but resistance is amazing. I almost switched from Sony 
 to Microsoft to get the halo games but i played resistance at- go figure a best buy and forgot 
 all about the 360. knowing id regret not getting the ps3 this game literally sealed the deal for 
 the ps3. i cant compare it to anything else. halo is great and all but im into ww2 shooters big 
 time and even though this one is latter it still has the feel of those games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgray187
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  Seriously the last 1st person shooter that I played was Turok for the N64. I don't know what other 
 shooters are like but I know that this is an impressive game. I thought the games visuals are just 
 amazing. The story is awesome and I just loved this game. I was a little afraid to buy it for fear 
 that i wouldn't enjoy it but this game is simply awesome. Its not too hard and not too easy. Its 
 very fun and somewhat addicting. Its a great first person shooter. Its a game that you can play 
 over and over and not tire of it. I recommend it to any shooter fan. This game does make the PS3 
 worth buying. Great graphics, great story, almost perfect difficulty. great sound and music for the 
 type of shooter. Awesome weapons and enemies. Great game period. A must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JaySin8706
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:48 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty good. The graphics are what you would a expect from the high end playstation 
 3 ( i only played it in 480p, not sure what it would look like in HD) . The gameplay is solid and 
 has a somewhat interesting story. I like the whole alternate history concept where world war 2 
 never happend. The storyline does have some points where it can seem a little dull, but honestly 
 who plays first person shoters for the storyline. The action in this game is intense. The ememy 
 A. I. is extremely intelligent and they often you flanking tatics so it makes you think a little 
 bit about how you are going to approach a fire firefight. The online rules, (what can i say, 40 
 player multi-player that is virtually lag free.) Some of the maps for online are gigantic and make 
 the game a real blast to play with 40 players. All in all this a great game that any playstation 
 3 owner should play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goGators154
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 2, 2007 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay- The gameplay is great, you can carry up to I think around 14 or 16 weapons at one time, 
 the weapon selection is very vast and very good. This is a mix of Halo 2 and Call of Duty 2 style 
 combat, especially with the vehicles you use which I personally love running over the Chimera and 
 pumping them full of led. It's a first person shooter with a great story and an unbelievable campaign 
 that's the best campaign i've ever played. The multiplayer is also very unique in it's own ways 
 with up to 40 people in one map and it's an all out war.
  
  Graphics- These are the best graphics out right now on any console or any game up to date. It makes 
 my regular TV look like a plasma screen TV.
  
  Sound- The sounds are also well done with the Chimera falling to the ground making many alien noises, 
 it makes you feel like your right in the thick of the battle.
  
  Value- My opinion is it's at the right price ($60.00) .
  
  Reviewers Tilt- Resistance Fall of 
 Man has gotten good reviews but i think it deserves more than an 8.6, 8.7 and an 8.8.
  
  Overall- Overall this is a great addition to the PS3 and will help the PS3 in many ways, and is 
 a must buy for all PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulimanitachi
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 10, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  Let me start off that this game does not have such great graphics but great gameplay. The story 
 is wonderful as you are Nathen Hale in 1948 a vius takes over Europe and the Americans go there 
 and help the British. The gameplay it is a nice FPS there are many types of weapons some of them 
 you can never find ammo. Online the online does not lag is fun. It has team deathmath, deathmatch, 
 and capture the base. You get to be a Chiamenian or Human. Oh yes each had diffrent abilties. The 
 co-op is nice too. But the games does not have online co-op. I reccomend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mez777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This an absolutley great game the story is thpught put very well and the diffrent types of guns 
 and enemies keeps u interested. with insomniac u know ur getting a great game but this just put 
 it over the top this game is a great FPS that gets rid of WWII and instead puts these creaturs 
 called chimerea that took over all of europe and asia and the U. S. is the last hope of survival. 
 The main charchter is nathan hale. u have to go as nathan hale and find a way to stop the chimerea. 
 this game is one of the must buys for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrinceBowser
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2007 6:30 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY: This has some stop-and-pop people. Just use L2 to duck behind cover. campaign is amazing. 
 AI was smart challenging and the weapons helped. Nice controls and using more options feels better. 
 ONLINE: This is where Resistance shines. It has team deathmatch AND normal deathmatch for 40 people 
 online. Who wants CTF to have 40 people online. knowone. so who cares. Weapons are put to good 
 use by scattering them or starting with up to 2- or all 8 weapons online at a time. The stats are 
 awesome and give you a feel on where to improve. EX: Less deaths, more kills with one weapon etc.
 
  Clan are awesome and the idea of squads was brilliant. Respawning next to a friend is awesome.
 
  EX: while playing CTF on somerset my friends hide in the canyon and wait for me to respond if 
 I died.
  GRAPHICS: Polished detailed and gorgeous graphiccs.
  SOUND: Each gun has an alien or a real sound. Main menu music is slow suspense which matches and 
 sounds awesome on an HD 1080i or p tv.
  VALUE: You will play campaign at max 6 times but online can keep people hooked for a thousand hours. 
 People have played over 2000 rounds and rounds are 15 minutes or higher usually. 2000x15=30000 
 minutes. OMFG. thats a lot. someone has played 5000 rounds. at tops 2 of them. TILT: An Fps that 
 feels right. give you options to how sensitive you want it.
  
  If you want to add me to your friend list I am Snoho. P. S. Dont make fun of my name. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrYpTiC_SnAke
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 9, 2007 7:05 am PT
Review:  In this wonderful game you play as a man named Sgt. Nathan Hale. About 20 minutes into the game 
 you are infected with the chimeran virus and gain special powers such as healing etc. The single 
 player will take you a good 12-13 hours maybe more and I loved every minute of it, You start with 
 the default weapon named the Carbine, its arguably the best weapon n the game. And later on you 
 acquire chimeran weapons. Their are drivable vehicles in this game you drive 3 in the singleplayer. 
 A jeep with a turret, A chemerian STALKER which is the best and a Tank. The framrate in this game 
 is great and I highly recc\ommend playing on a HD tv while it looks good on a standered display 
 it looks spectacular on HD display. The sound in this game is awesome you can hear the chimeran 
 soldiers going huAAH and the hurl of bullets coming from your gun. Nothing more than the satisfying 
 sound of gunfire. Now to the online aspect. You can make your own character choose his clothing 
 etc. You start as a private and you can work your way up to supreme commander the highest rank 
 in the game. The best thing about this game is it has no lag and 40 player support
  some games there wont even be an ounce of lag. The game modes consist of team deathmatch: your 
 team must kill the other team deathmatch: every man for himself capture the flag: you and your 
 team must capture other teams flag breach: you and your team must capture and hold other teams 
 nodes Conversion: you have to lives one as a human and one as a chimera survive!! Overall resistance 
 is a superb game which I highly recommend to ps3 owners My review : 9.6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:45 am PT
Review:  A great game with some exciting action!
  
  Resistance : fall of man is set just after world war two the story is how alien lifeforms called 
 the chimera are attacking the human race destroying everything in there path the games is a great 
 first person shooter with of course great graphics because its on the ps3 the controls are easy 
 to get round and the story is generally interesting you will end up switching it of at one in the 
 morning and still wanting to play more.
  
  In conclusion i think this game is great and is worth the money just another reason to get a ps3 
 rather than a wii or 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkfame
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 9, 2007 5:57 am PT
Review:  This is a good launch title, both graphically and gameplay wise. I know we'll see more graphically 
 impressive games like this on the platform, but for a 1st generation and launch title it's very 
 good. I've played through the whole single player campaign without noticing a single framerate 
 drop, so this game plays really smooth. I'm one of those people you could call framerate-sensitive 
 , as I often notice drops which other people don't. At times, there is a lot going on in the game. 
 You'll see many enemies at once on screen and particles flying everywhere. But enough about the 
 technical stuff, let's talk about the game itself. The single player campaign is rather long, and 
 you'll explore everything from bombed cities to alien underground tunnels. Considering this is 
 a first-person-shooter the story around the game is decent. Basically World War 2 never happened, 
 but an alien form called the Chimera has invaded earth. Your job is to fight back as the role of 
 Nathan Hale. The game has quite a few interesting weapons with alternate fire functions. To give 
 you one example, there is a weapon called The Auger. It has the ability to fire through walls and 
 with alternate fire you can set up a force field which blocks all incoming attacks except the Auger 
 itself (which lets you fire through the force field, but also enemies with an Auger to hit you) . 
 As I stated it has the ability to fire through walls, but walls and obstacles delays the bullet 
 a few seconds and you'll be able to see it penetrate through the wall on the other side. This gives 
 you enough time to dodge it if you see it in time. As the artificial intelligence is rather challenging 
 in the game it never becomes boring and adds replay value. Also when you've completed the campaign 
 once, you can replay it and you'll discover even more new weapons on your second run. Moving over 
 to multiplayer part, which plays a big part of the game. It's the first console game to ever support 
 up to 40 players at once, and it plays totally lag free. As you play ranked online matches, you 
 will gain experience which unlocks new soldier outfits you can wear. You will also move up in rank, 
 and see other players rank in the game. Each player has their own character sheet with detailed 
 statistics. In multiplayer you can also play as the Chimera race, which temporary gains the ability 
 to see through walls. If you combine that ability with The Auger your enemies will never find a 
 safe place to hide. The multiplayer mode also has clan support and the ability to form a party 
 to play together with buddies in the game. I would recommend this game to anyone with a PS3 who 
 enjoys first-person-shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthammers
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 9, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is superb and would reccomend it to any fan of first person shooters or even just action 
 games. The realism is great and the number of different missions, aliens and weapons is extensive. 
 Also wonderful attention to detail is great with things such as windows breaking one by one or 
 comrades dying and falling where they are. The cross between traditional war game and alien infested 
 land is a good mix and provides a really good PS3 alternative to Gears of War. Just owning a PS3 
 is exciting and with quite a small number of release games its refreshing to have a great shooter 
 to play when released, hopefully it picks up and a Gears of War VS Resistance FOM review is around 
 the corner soon, as I am a great fan of both games. Great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DV2THEFOX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:41 am PT
Review:  With the title i mean that the game is reeeeally hard.. warning..
  
  Graphics: Plug in your favourite HDMI cable to ya favourite HD Ready/HD FULL Sony BRAVIA TV and 
 enjoy an almost realistic world in your eyes.. best i've seen my  
 smoke and details, etc.. simply reaching the expert/perfect.
  
  Sound: Great music, thou mostly it's quiet... the sound FX's are kinda real (play it on one of those 
 Home Cinema speakers and be in the war) .. THE MAIN CHARACTER SPEAKS!!!!!!! (Something we were missing 
 since HALF LIFE 2 XD)
  
  Gameplay: Easy to know controller, thou some weapons, when you get 'em, needs a better explanation 
 of the use of their main/2ndary attacks (atleast a video would've helped..) ... only 1 SIXAXIS move 
 that you won't use much (Move it Forward/Backward when burning in Multiplayer or when an enemy 
 wants to hug you in the campaign mode.
  
  Difficulty: Hard point... hide, shoot, hide and shoot... you'll get a hard time trying to get forward 
 in the game knowing your enemies's position and weak points... thou there's some environment help 
 (no spoiler on what ;) ) .
  
  OVERALL: First PS3 game you should get, no matter ya a FPS Freak or a newbie into this kind of games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmlope
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2007 1:31 am PT
Review:  Even if you don't like first action shooters you migth like to give it a shot to this game. The 
 campaign mode is correct, different to all the the WWII shooters games. The history of the campaign 
 is DIFFERENT one, that is you don't have to fight against German troops. Indeed ypu fight fight 
 against a kind Genetic modified humans . Graphics are O. K better than on any PS2 first person shooter. 
 To say there O. K doesn't meen they couldn't be better. PS3 brings the opprtunitty to work better 
 on those graphics. Other thing is the included ON LINE Mode. Where you have many options. Up to 
 40 players in one game... where action is shure to catch you. If you begin on the PS3 platform 
 this game is one of the best offers you'll find for the moment. Don't miss it. I'm not very found 
 of first action shooters but this game is worth the try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: norgewhop
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of man is by far the best first person shooter I have ever played, and I think 
 I have had a crack at hundreds. The length of the game is amazing, I thought I was in the final 
 battle about three times, only to find the game just kept on going. The storyline is tight and 
 lengthy, the assortment of bad guys is vast... from scorpion-like creatures to warped, morbid dog-like 
 things. The assortment of weapons is great! You have traditional weapons from earth, plus a variety 
 of alien weapons... some of which are just plain freaky, and every weapon has a first and secondary 
 fire, i. e: bullets and missile launcher, any more would be spoiling the great feeling you get when 
 you find a new weapon as the game pauses and you get a screen telling you all about it, secondary 
 fire is sometimes awesome! There is also plenty of side things to keep you interested, like gathering 
 intel and getting reward points for doing various things... unlocking pictures and videos. This 
 game took me ages to finally finish, but when I did, I had a 5 minute break and then started from 
 the beginning again... by that time I had forgotten the map of the first stage! HIGHLY RECOMMENDED! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: face1
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Resistance : fall of man is set just after world war two the story is how alien lifeforms called 
 the chimera are attacking the human race destroying everything in there path the games is a great 
 first person shooter with of course great graphics because its on the ps3 the controls are easy 
 to get round and the story is generally interesting you will end up switching it of at one in the 
 morning and still wanting to play more.
  
  In conclusion i think this game is great and is worth the money just another reason to get a ps3 
 rather than a wii or 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a very good game despite the some what bad graphics.
  
  What I mean with bad graphics, is not that it sucks, but that it's like a PC game from 2003. Comparing 
 it with Call of Duty 2 or Gears of War, COD2 and GOW owns Resistance.
  
  The sound is great, with cool music as you slay the alien Chimera.
  
  Also, some missions at 
 first, were a little boring, I thought that an alien invasion would lead to much bigger battles, 
 but you are mostly on your own and killing small groups of aliens.
  
  The question in the game, like the mystery of the chimera and other, are not being answered, but 
 I hope that the prequel Rise of Man will enlighten us on these.
  
  Resistance is a pretty good game, and it is worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ResidentEvil-
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is very interesting game and it's definitely one of the best PS3 European 
 launch games. The game takes place in the 1950's decade and the story starts when a strange Chimera-monster 
 begins to conquer Asia, Soviet Union and Europe. Chimera army manage this excellently so the world 
 is now danger.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man's hero is USA soldier named Nathan Hale. After a little complication, he 
 realise that he is still alive but Chimera-virus is in his body. He gets also an extra powers which 
 means that one man can save the world.
  
  Gameplay is great. Resistance's controls are just as great as you can expect. The game has great 
 weapon collection. There are pistols but also strong weapons and grenades. Artificial intelligence 
 is very good so Chimera's are very smart. Charging is a bad choice because you usually die if you 
 want to charge. Covers are important and I recommend that.
  
  Online game is also very good. Online game contains traditional deathmatches and also a few extra 
 modes so playing doesn't end after completing the campaign. In the network you can play with 40 
 other players! The game has also a two-player Co-op mode and it's a good bonus mode.
  
  The game's biggest problem is that the game hasn't really much original ideas. Insomniac wanted 
 lots of original ideas but I didn't notice really much special things. But the game has everything 
 what a good FPS-game needs and a lots of extra things. Great gameplay, interesting campaign, really 
 good online game and impressive graphics. This is one of the best FPS-games that I have ever played!
 
  
  THE GOOD
  +Superb graphics
  +Interesting fields
  +Amazing sound effects
  +Great online game
  
  THE BAD
  -Only a few original idea 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biglewiss
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is an outstanding game that combines old world war levels with futuristic alien technology. 
 There is a great variety in level design and the graphics look great. Its a must own game for any 
 person looking for a solid fps!
  
  Gameplay: Very good variety in weapons. All of the controls for the game work very well and feel 
 smooth. Challenging AI that put up on a good fight on the harder difficulties. Really fun 40-player 
 online thats a blast to play.
  
  Graphics: The graphics look really good and involve lots of detail to the environment, close and 
 far away. Character models are impressive but nothing too amazing. The chimera look great and the 
 vehicles are also very impressive.
  
  Sound: Great audio effects and voice acting is well done. Nothing really musical though, it could 
 use some music that fits the mood.
  
  Value: About 10 to 15 hours in the single player campaign. co-op play is a blast with a friend 
 and online multiplayer is really fun. the campaign is replayable and gives you incentives like 
 extra weapons and unlockable secrets.
  
  Reviewer's Tilt: Very hard to put down once you start playing. The story is interesting and keeps 
 you coming back. Fun controls and the chimera just feel great to kill! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floyd0481
Rating: 7.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up a PS3 and of course, the best game the system has to offer to date. Well, 
 that's my out dated opinion as I am in Russia it sometimes takes a bit of time for games to filter 
 through to us. Anyway, I got the game out of the box and into the machine. I am playing in full 
 HD or as full as you can get and from the hype I was expecting something great. The video presentation 
 doesn't really deserve to be slammed but it doesn't deserve to be praised either. However, the 
 game play is smooth. I am not very good at FPS so I found the game quite challenging. The single 
 player campaign is quite short but for me that's ok as I don't have much skill at these types of 
 games so, the shorter the better as I can finish the game quickly and put it on the shelf with 
 a sense of accomplishment. I really didn't get that experience playing through this one so I don't 
 see myself playing through it again anytime soon. The sound is good and the story holds it's own 
 but , nothing spectacular. If you are thinking of buying this game, try it out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SmilerAl
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:31 am PT
Review:  Well first off I reckon that Resistance - Fall of Man - is a fantastic game and should not be missed 
 by any PS3 owner's.
  The game play is fun and smooth with a decent arsenal of guns and grenades and with lots of different 
 fire modes with the guns leads to hundreds of ways to kill Chimera, Pus the AI in this game is 
 best Iv'e ever seen too.
  Graphics were also very good if not better then Gears of War and with a HDMI cable as well they 
 just keep getting better.
  The sound was good as well with realistic gun sounds and grunts made by the Chimera.
  The story 
 in the game is not as good as it seems tho as in short words it's just, Chimera come from Russia, 
 Take over Europe Come to GB, Sends over American soldiers, You fight as one SIMPLE.
  Although one fun part about the story is, WHO are the Cloven ? They are mentioned in Info files 
 and you see weird human body scatted around the game but nothing else is seen.
  The game doesn't very detail your player or any one eles in the game it goes on more about bloody 
 Chimrea then any thing eles
  All in all its a great game with every penny spent on it and if you haven't got it but have a PS3 
 download a free demo some where ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:07 am PT
Review:  I never was a great fan of FPSs. I had played some James Bond, but that was it. Until I played 
 Timesplitters last year. I suddenly got addicted to FPSs. I knew that one on the PS3 would be really 
 good, so I looked into one. And I found: Resistance came out as the best in many reviews.
  
  After playing on the game for a good 6 hours, I really think that this is an excellent game. 
 So far, I have found no glitches at all, which is rare in shooting games. There is just something 
 about it that really appeals to me.
  
  Starting off with the story line. It is very clever. Basically, as I'm sure you know, the game 
 is set in the 1950s, but WWII never happened. Instead, an army of aliens have started taking over 
 Asia and Europe. This did sound very farfetched to mke originally, but Insomniac have pulled it 
 off.
  
  Although I haven't played much multiplayer on it, I have come to two opposite statements about 
 it. Firstly, multiplayer is set in HUGE areas, bigger than any other multiplayer FPS I've ever 
 seen. Secondly, the multiplayer doesn't have AI, as far as I know, which can really make it boring 
 when there are two of you in a huge level. Nevertheless, it is fantastic.
  
  To be honest, it isn't that different. Everything in the game has been done before, and so there 
 are very little new ideas put into it. However, it is the combination of these that make Resistance: 
 Fall of Man stand out from the other PS3 release games. For example, the levels are 1950s levels, 
 and look old-fashioned, but the weapons look like something out of Star Wars. It's a clever mix, 
 that surprisingly works well.
  
  Insomniac made Spyro, and Ratchet and Clank, which are both platformers. The jump from these types 
 of games, to a First Person Shooter is probably very hard, and so the game, at some points plays 
 like a platformer. There is quite a lot of jumping, and certain weapons, which come out of the 
 floor, and fire like a shock-wave that you have to jump over. To me, this is very Platformer style, 
 but, it works well.
  
  The entire game works well. From the detail of the smashing glass (which is incredible!) and the 
 impressively built levels, to the fast action gameplay that follows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackle2071
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 11:08 pm PT
Review:  what can i say about R: FOM that has not been said a dozen times over (postive and negative) . Well 
 i want to keep this short! The Single Player in the game really does beat the lving crap out of 
 Halo 2's IMO ( playing as the the arbiter was really stupid and i really dont give a crap about 
 the covenant! I just want to kill as the MC!) The Single Player in this game has some great jump 
 out of your seat moments and some really great fire fights. With pretty good A. I. to boot! the 
 game is fairly long and has plenty of great moments and once you beat it , if you choose to play 
 again and beat the game in HARD and SUPERHUMAN you get some new and fun weapons to tool around 
 with! which brings me to the Weapons! the real star of any FPS, and R: FOM has them in spades! all 
 the guns are exstreamly fun to play around with! Which brings me to the Multiplayer! If you are 
 a vetren of Halo's Multiplayer. then this game will not reall do you any justice. Most Non Ranked 
 games are almost always 1 hit kill matches with Snipers or All Weapons (which just turns into one 
 big rocket fest) . The Ranked matches are ok but are small and the game pleged with Cheaters and 
 Glitchers ! So in closing Insomniac did a fantastic job with this game it awesome! i loved evry 
 moment of it! just needs some better multiplayer to really make this game shine! if you are a fan 
 of FPS's and own a PS3 this should not be missed!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thrall897
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 6:09 am PT
Review:  BTW this is my first review.
  
  Pros: Awesome Multi-player, wicked enemies and campaign replay value.
  
  Cons: Short campaign, 
 not the best characters.
  
  Single-player:
  I found the campaign in resistance far too short, it lasted around 6 hours, add another 2 if you 
 look for all the intels. The story is great, though your character Nathan Hale doesn't really talk 
 much. I still enjoyed playing through the campaign on Medium and Hard difficulties even though 
 you can basically remember where all the enemies are hiding. I think the Chimera are a superbly 
 designed race, maybe the scariest, creepiest alien race I have seen in a game.
  
  Multi-player:
  Multi-player is just awesome, the whole ranking system is perfect. Playing MP 
 with 40 people with no lag is insane. The levels are designed to look destroyed and gritty, and 
 guess what, they do!
  
  Overall I give this game a 8.9 GREAT!
  
  PSN: LilDeamon (add me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznhayato7
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  If you own a Playstation 3, please read this review and buy Resistance: Fall of Man as soon as 
 possible. Resistance: Fall of Man (RFOM) is a unique shooter in its own ways. It has an interesting 
 story, addicting gameplay, and incredible weapons. The story has an odd characteristic for a first 
 person shooter. The events take place in 1951 and has futuristc weapons. On top of that, the story 
 includes some horror which can scare you enough to make you shiver every time you pull the trigger. 
 As for its weapons, Resistance offers awesome capabilities with each one. The only bad thing that 
 can be said about the weapons is that some weapons in the campaign mode are excluded in multiplayer 
 mode. Also, some of the weapon capabilities are stripped from the multiplayer mode as well. For 
 example, the L23 Faireye (Sniper Rifle) has a slow motion feature that allows for easier headshots. 
 In multiplayer mode, the Faireye has a new feature that allows for automatic zoom, similar to that 
 of the Halo sniper rifle zoom (Some gamers like that zoom better) . As for graphics, the visuals 
 in Resistance are exceptional. They may not be top notch, but for a launch title, the graphics 
 are good enough to be considered next gen . However, the textures in the game could have been better, 
 but according to some sources, the developers of the game did not focus on textures due to the 
 amount of time they had to complete the game and the technological limitations they had with the 
 engine they used. Aside from the graphics, the online multiplayer of the game is just incredible. 
 The online section of this game offers very fun gameplay that is comparable to that of games played 
 on Xbox Live, which is very rare on Playstation titles. While some people may not consider Resistance 
 to be a Halo Killer , it is definitely a good alternative to Halo 2, just in case you are bored 
 of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 6:59 pm PT
Review:  To begin things off you play as Nathan Hale, he's the main man. The story concentrates on the creatures 
 that are trying to take over the world. Most of the story is learning about the creatures, what 
 they do and how they survive. It actually makes the story really interesting. Ok so, now on the 
 the game play. GOOD THINGS: the game is a first person shooter, and the action is non stop, no 
 puzzles or back tracking to break up the action and to waste your time. The action is very intense, 
 sometimes you have a lot of impossible odds. such as you going up against 20 people at once. and 
 these moments are really awesome how they have made them look and feel. The sound in the game is 
 really good, with loads of action going on around you , you are able to hear it. The graphics are 
 pretty darn impressive, the explosives are great. The weapons and creatures, that you deal with 
 are new and not the same ole same. The weapons are a big part of the game with their own abalities, 
 might remind you of other games. It has a real go co-op mode that great with friends. A lot of 
 more games need co-op modes, it jsut makes it more fun to play it with other people. BAD THINGS: 
 other than the price, there is not anything that I found bad about the game. I really enjoyed it. 
 OVERALL: If you have A PS3 and you are looking for a great game and you happen to have a little 
 money left after purchasing the PS3 and need a game, then this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stuna12345
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 5, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  THIS GAME HAS A REMARKABLE STORY, THE GRAPHICS ARE GREAT AND OFFLINE AND ONLINE MULTIPLAYER IS 
 SUPERB. HOWEVER AFTER BEATING THE GAME ON EASY , MEDIUM AND HALF WAY THREW HARD THIS GAME WILL 
 GET EXTREMLY BORING. fOR EXAMPLE GOING THREW THE MOTIONS OF A REGULAR MISSION KILL ABOUT TEN ALLIENS, 
 LOOK FOR HEALTH, WHERE THE HEALTH IS U MUST KILL ABOUT ANOTHER 5 ALLIENS NOW U HAVE HEALTH NOW 
 THOOSE STUPID SPIDERS COME, ABOUT A MILLION OF THEM, OK NOW YOUR ABOUT HALF WAY THREW A MISSION 
 . 90 percent of all missions in the game are like this. TOO MUCH OF THE SAME THING . NOT ENOUGH 
 BOSSES, AND THE ONLY TIME THEY WOULD SWICH THINGS UP WOULD ONLY BE FOR HALF A MISSION LIKE WHEN 
 UR WITH THE BRITISH SOLIDER IN THE CONVOY. AND THE TANK IN THE BEGINIG OF THE GAME. HOWEVER I KNOW 
 THIS WAS A LAUNCH TITLE BUT MAYBE THEY RUSHED IT A LITTLE IT COULD HAVE BEEN LONGER AND MORE CUT 
 SEENS DONT GET ME WRONG BUT I LOVE IT OVER ALL JUST CANT BE BIAS YOU KNOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riorio99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 5, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Now then, Resistance: Fall of Man, the PS3's premiere launch game. Like Halo and Super Mario before 
 it, it has raised the bar for every single game on the new system on day one. This immense shooter 
 makes a change from a game being set in the future or WW2 and tells the tale of a different timeline. 
 To quote Official PS2 magazine UK Good news, WW2 never happened, bad news: Britain was invaded 
 by aliens in the 1950's. The incredible visuals are nothing short of spectacular and the moment 
 a wierd mutant alien spider thing jumped at my face I actually fell backwards. This game is the 
 perfect buy for any PS3 owners and is a major reason to go and buy one right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 5.8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:48 pm PT
Review:  Created by Insomniac, the team behind the famous Ratchet &amp; Clank series, has a go at creating 
 a first-person shooter. Potentially, what should be fun is scouring Britain trying to get rid of 
 the alien menace by using futuristic weapons, which are a blast to use. It's just a shame that 
 it isn't very fun.
  
  You play as the very mystyrious American called Nathe Hale who's task is to destroy the 6-eyed 
 freaks that would like to take over Earth. He'll visit familier cities and towns such as York, 
 Bristol and London. He has comrades aiding him in his not so easy fight against the enemy. At the 
 start of the game, Hale will only have one weapon at his disposel, but throughout the levels he'll 
 find other geniously designed killing tools.
  
  The weapons vary from shotguns and rocket launchers to sniper rifles and machine guns. And these 
 arn't any ordinary weapons either; they have special abilities. For example; the sniper rifle, 
 or the Fareye as the game calls it, can slow down time and the Hailstorms bullets bounce off of 
 surfaces. Shiny, slick and powerful, just how the guns should be.
  
  The enemies, though incredibly detailed, are just boring to kill. They range from small, but sometimes 
 deadly 'Rollers' to huge, angry 'Berserker' like creatures. But most of the time, the game will 
 put you up against the 'Hybrid'. These are the average, boring and most common of the enemies. 
 There are no tactics in Resistance: Fall of Man. All you've got to remember is Shoot it, and it'll 
 die , and there's not much reason to take cover, as running straight out into the heat of battle 
 and killing the enemies quicker isn't dangerous at all because the aliens need some more target 
 practice and Hale regenerates his health anyway. The only fun and different enemy; the Widowmaker 
 is only encountered during the final levels of the game.
  
  The gameplay is very hard and sometimes just feels cheap. The levels are littered with traps, that 
 activate when you walk near them, which you'll need to avoid because they are very damaging. But 
 once you've gotten so far since you last checkpoint and get killed by one of these traps, you can't 
 help but feel like the game is getting cheap on you. What adds to the difficulty is the very clever 
 A. I which duck behind cover, run away from grenades and flank you.
  
  Most of the time you'll be hearing the grunts of the ugly creatures. But the blast of the shotgun 
 is a nicer sound to hear. You'll also listen in on the screams of your allies calling for back-up.
 
  
  Even though your allies die way to easily, they can also be life savers in lot's of circumstances 
 throughout the game. They'll follow you and be first to shoot against anything non-human coming 
 your way.
  
  What really stands out in Resistance: Fall of Man is the online. 40, that's right, 40 player battles 
 are outstanding. You'll recieve alot more satisfaction from killing the real people than the offline 
 chumps. And surpisingly, there's zero lag.
  
  The graphics don't stand out much but they are nicely detailed, but other games currently on the 
 PS3 look alot better. Their nothing to write home about. Most of the time you'll be staring into 
 the many different shades of brown that exist in Resistance.
  
  Overall, Resistance: Fall of Man is a average first-person shooter, that doesn't bring anything 
 new to the mix except a well thought out plot. The enemies are boring and the difficulty is over-the-top 
 hard which adds to the frustration. Only consider a purchase if you have access to online, which 
 outshines almost any other PlayStation 3 game in it's intense battles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rhys1elliott
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 4, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game shows off some of the ps3's hardware with some amazing graphics and textures, which is 
 very good for a launch game. I would call it the Perfect Dark Zero of the PS3 but that would be 
 an understatement, this game is much better. I found the story to be very interesting. Hey look 
 it's a German, oops nah it's only an alien, wait a minute, DIE! Jokes aside this is a bout a soldier 
 who gets infected, but doesnt show many signs of infection, that's I'm saying.
  
  There is a huge selection of weapons to chose from from the standard weapons like rocket launchers 
 and snipers to Augers and hedgehog grenades, it quit impressive really. The only is awesome, a 
 bit too crazy at times, but generally a blast. And the campaign is pretty lengthy. The online reminded 
 me a bit of Halo really.
  
  Okay time for the drawbacks, the controls are a bit sloppy compared to other FPS' and online is 
 often the case of person who spawns in the best place gets the most points. But other than those 
 minor problems this is a great game, that anyones would like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surviver101play
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is the best game ever. Resistance is such a good game because of the contols. 
 Another big selling point for resistance is the 40 man online play. The maps are very big and you 
 will never get bourd with the online play. Everywhere you look you see bullets flying everywere. 
 The wepons in resistance are fantastic. There is always a specill move you can do with each wepon. 
 Even after the first time you beat this game they have all new wepons you can play with the next 
 time you play this game. BEST PS3 GAME EVER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NextGen86
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Although Resistance: Fall of Man does not offer anything innovative to the genre, it still is a 
 great game. Since Insomniac Games is best known for their crazy weapons, R: FoM does not disappoint; 
 each weapon was very fun to use because of its secondary functions. A lengthy and somewhat difficult 
 single-player campaign mixed with an entertaining storyline created a fine gaming experience, but 
 playing online is where this game really shines. What shocked me the most is that you can play 
 20 vs. 20 with NO lag whatsoever. However, I did find it irritating that many of the matches include 
 one-hit kills... personally, those kind of matches are not fun for me. A must-own title for any 
 PS3 owner, R: FoM foreshadows a great future for Sony's latest system... hopefully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harrybob13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  resistance: fall of man is a great game, it has a good single player, co-op and online. there are 
 many creatures ranging from small crawlers to stalkers who are easily double your hight.
  
  there are many weapons which include a rocket launcher (L209 LARK) a shotgun (ROSSMORE 236) and a 
 sniper rifle (L23 FAYERE) but theres also the obvious assault rifle (M5A2 CARBINE)
  there are of course grenades.
  
  in some missions there are many allies on your team but on 
 others you have to go in on your own both can be very fun. the story is not massive but it is very 
 fun and once you complete it you can run through it again and unlock a whole new set of weapons (while 
 keeping the original) .
  
  resistance is a great game that is definitely worth buying at the price it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix14
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 4, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  Resistance is one of the reasons i bought the system. Ever since i first read abobut it i knew 
 it was going to be a great game, and i can honestly say with out playing the other two reason i 
 bought PS3 i got my monies worth. This game is great, it's not just a run and shoot game you actually 
 have to use stragegy in your attack. Another thing that makes this game so good is that your opponents 
 are smart. They dont just stand there and get shot or get blown up, they'll move out of the way 
 and take cover. This game have a wide variety of weapons which all have advantages in certain situations. 
 Every weapon has a secondary fire option that is usful when your in a jam. Mastering these weapons 
 is key for online play. Online play is plan fun. I havent dont any objective games online yet but 
 the slayer is extemely fun and worth paying for (even though it's free) All in all this is a great 
 game and a must have if you're a playstation 3 owner. Honestly in my opinion it's worth buying 
 the system just for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pumba_James
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 4, 2007 5:21 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man, one of the highly anticipated debut games to be released on the Playstation 
 3, is an experience that can be summed up in one word, solid. Insomniac Games played clever and 
 created a game that just couldn't be well, bad. This one has all the basic essentials that could 
 be expected from a top-notch First Person Shooter: an unoriginal yet surprisingly interesting storyline; 
 challenging and satisfying gameplay; fun and addictive multiplayer; a vicious and ugly enemy; and 
 a vast array of cool weapons to kill them with. Resistance is the game that everybody buys and 
 that everybody likes not because its revolutionary but because its a game that is accessible and 
 friendly (think a mix of Halo 2 and Black) . Resistance: Fall of Man is a excellent way to enjoy 
 (and make you love) your shiny new PS3. Hate it or Love it, without the hate part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wenzke
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man has been placed in a difficult situation. It is the flag bearer for an 
 entire new console, and in that capacity, it has been heaped with almost comically exagerated expectations. 
 This opens the game up to crushing criticism as well.
  
  IN R: FOM, you play as Nathan Hale, a US soldier who has been sent to the UK as part of an aide 
 contingent in 1951. It seems that a freakishly deformed horde, known as the chimera, have rawled 
 out of the earth and begun colonizing it. The epidemic started in Russia, and has now spread across 
 the continent. This has prevented WW2 from ever happening. IN a last desperate attempt for salvation, 
 the British have offered up novel intel to the Americans in return for aid. You will proceed through 
 30 chapters, over about 15 hours of gameplay, in order to experience the epic three days of the 
 US intervention. The detials of this are best left for you to discover, but let it simply be said 
 that the story is typical, somewhat by the numbers apocolyptic fare. It is, however, very well 
 told, and engrossing enough that you will want to see it to the end.
  
  The controls are solid, tight and responsive. They follow the same default FPS control scheme that 
 most console FPS use these days. The enemy AI is adaptive and resourceful, and the multiple difficulty 
 levels allow the gamer to tailor the experience to your own tastes.
  
  The levels are nicely varied, ranging from chaotic massive battlefields, to eerie creepy corridor 
 crawls. The pacing is also well done, with just enough time to catch your breath between ferocious 
 battles.
  
  The sound and graphic design are solid. True to the setting of the game, this looks and feels very 
 similar to other WW2 FPS on the market, with muted color palates and all sorts of pings and bangs 
 from the various and assundry ordinance. The hole in the graphical armor is in the textures. Often 
 terrain is obviously flat slopes with a few bushes added on it to make it look pretty. While this 
 is a nice looking game, it does not live up to the high end graphics games of the new generation.
 
  
  Special mention must be made of the weapons and multiplayer aspects of R: FOM. The weapons, as you'd 
 expect from the people who brought you Ratchet and Clank, are impressive. In addition to standrad 
 RPG, Flamethrower and machine gun, you will also find a needle like rail gun, a gun that shoots 
 through walls, and a gun that lays biological mines. Often the difference between a difficult fire 
 fight and a walk in the park is being able to figure out the right gun for the job.
  
  As for the multiplayer, well, its excellent. Lag free games abound, 2-40 players, and multiple 
 game types are avialable. Whether you are looking for a pick-up and go deathmatch, or a tactical 
 game of breach, this game delivers. The presence of two distinct factions (humans and chimera) 
 with unique strengths and weaknesses only adds to the replay value.
  
  To say that this is the best PS3 launch title is to sell it short. R: FOM serves as an excellent 
 summation of the state of FPS on consoles. It provides everything that is currently available in 
 a console FPS in one tight, well refind package. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steven141
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 3, 2007 11:31 am PT
Review:  Insomniac have managed to make a very successful and spectacular game. This is one of the first 
 games that were released for the PS3 showing it off.
  
  The game takes places in the early 1950's in britain where you play as Nathan Hale, an american 
 soldier sent to liberate britain from the clutches of the chimera who invaded and captured europe 
 within a few months from the moment they escaped from Russia which had closed its borders trying 
 to contain the problem but were unsuccessful, letting the world find out of th terrible secret 
 the country had been trying to cover up. You start with a scene seeing a helicopter exploding and 
 you begin your journey from there fighting (and hopefully winning) your battle against the chimera. 
 The story is taken from the point of view of a british woman that met Hale and is suspicious of 
 him since he obtained chimeran traits from being infected but surviving.
  
  Resistance: FoM makes use of the sixaxis (the PS3 controller) motion sensing capability although 
 it is not widely used in the game you can shake it to get creatures off you if they grab onto you 
 or if on multiplayer and some kind person decides your cold and sets your on fire you can shake 
 the sixaxis to put the flames out. When you start playing for the first time you will notice that 
 the health bar is divided into 4 parts so if you are damaged all four bars will not just recharge 
 you will have to pick up the yellow containers that are scattered around the map as are weapons 
 and ammo. You can also carry about 8 weapons (not including grenades) which can be VERY useful 
 if you happen to run out of ammoin a main gun or have an army of low hybrids chasing you the sapper 
 will become very useful instead of using up ammo from main weaponry such as the bullseye or M5A2 
 carbine.
  
  Insomniac have made a very good job of the AI, the AI is the same on every difficulty setting, 
 the only difference is the number of enemies and where they are placed. You will often find the 
 chimera surprising you, jumping out at you and ambushing you, also when in battle you will often 
 be frustrated at them since they fire at you and then quickly hide behind a wall or another object. 
 Also when walking about you will often hear something you have stepped on, this too adds to the 
 effect and atmosphere the game produces.
  
  The multiplayer is a main feature for this game and you will find yourself playing on it a lot. 
 There are various maps and game types for multiplayer (deathmatch, capture the flag etc) in which 
 you can play as a human or chimera. The humans work in the same manner as in the campaign although 
 you wont play as Hale unless you get a lot of skill points. The chimera work a lot differently, 
 for one they are taller and more ugly than humans, also if you press L2/R2 (i forgot which) you 
 go into fury mode where you can run faster and even see humans through walls but be careful, if 
 you stay in fury mode for too long it will begin to drain your health so best not to use fury mod 
 for too long but dont worry it will be useable again in a short amount of time. There are also 
 character sheets in which you can see your official/unofficial stats of your online battles and 
 you could also add buddies to see if they are online and also join the ingame, note: buddies are 
 different from the PSN-IDs you add on the home page of the playstation.
  
  This is a great game to play and i recommend it to any PS3 owner to add to their collection of 
 future titles for the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aikou_X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Resistance is one of the main titles that was released at the ps3 launch day, exciting many sony 
 fan boys and pissing off wii and 360 owners due to the fact that it was EXCLUSIVE (mind the capitals) .
 
  
  So is Resistance really as good as its all hyped up to be?
  Resistance takes place in a alternate world war 2 universe. Instead of countries fighting other 
 countries, an alien race called the chimera takes over most of Asia and Europe and England is the 
 last line of defense, (you know.. your typical sci fi war story) . So the United States (AGAIN) 
 comes to save the day and sends in the troops to backup there fellow English and fight the horde 
 of chimera waiting for them.. the story's pretty bland and you really wont get into the characters. 
 Remember the days of standing infront of the pc screen playing doom and going BOOM.. HEADSHOT.. 
 YEAH OWNAGE YOU SON OF A !@#$% in english terms that is - yeah.. take that i just shot you in the 
 head you female dog . Resistance goes back to its fps roots and presents a raw, awesome and polished 
 game.
  
  Graphics are a blast in 1080 resolution but expect to find a few blurry textures on a normal tv, 
 (even on 720) . The games nice and shiny, and running on sony's new technology gives it a big boost 
 in the atmospheric section. The game has a really vast mix of landscapes, ranging from war torn 
 cities, grassy hills and dense jungles. The chimera, are scary in they're own right, and when killed 
 are just waiting to be looked at. The character models are great and the cut scenes are just as 
 good.
  
  Expect to find your typical war sounds, bells and whistles in this game. bullets flying past and 
 explosions in the far distance. A nice orchestral soundtrack is jammed into the game, but maybe 
 a rock song thrown in now and then would beef up the action
  
  The game plays well - its easy to pick up and learn and has a solid premise in how it welcomes 
 new people to the fps scene. Chimera are smart - very smart. You'll see them take cover and call 
 for backup - even try and hide and take you when your back is turned. Lucky the sensing motion 
 isnt used to well.. because if this game turned out to be Wii-ish.. good god that wouldve been 
 awful (see the review for red steel and farcry for wii)
  
  Online is really what keeps this game alive - I've experienced no lag and being a chimera was a 
 really exciting and fun experience. The lobby is good and the ranking are well thought out. Overall 
 Resistance is a must for ps3 owners looking for they're first playstation next gen fps title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4dragonscasino
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:43 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a game that has been hpyed about since it was annoucned in dark times of the empire... 
 anyway when i played ..... snor im sleepy gonna go bed. To save time Im gonna just cut staright 
 to the purple monkey dish washer.
  
  Resistance is an awesome FPS with great gameplay, but i felt it was kinda the same as othes when 
 you were byself. But when you had an army of men with you, it felt as if a real war and not a crapy 
 one when your a one man army. GET REAL! besides that the story! THE story was real let down, i 
 wanted to know why, how but instead i got excuses and short cut scenes and thrown satright into 
 another battle.
  
  Resistance has a great online interface which is easy to use and connects you in a matter of seconds. 
 Great play with chat and no lag... yey anyway
  
  I love my PS3 and i like this game good game for a laucnh and should keep you busy for those other 
 games, while you wait dream, think and live metal gear solid for that will show the Boom shaka 
 laka of the PS3.
  
  Biasm aside i heard the 360 overheats and does not have the power to Boom shaka laka, The Wii you 
 say that cant even say HD, good games or Boom shaka laka. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex1889
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 3, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Not too shabby for a game that is supposed to be the flagship for the PS3. I am not a big fan of 
 Call of Duty, as I didn't think it was violent enough, and find the WWII weapons boring, so Resistance 
 is quite refreshing. Indeed the graphics are not worth purchasing the system for. The background 
 artwork is exceptional indeed, and while the graphics are good,.
  
  I would say, too, that about half of the general environment is destructible. I would prefer a 
 bit more realism in this area. When I hit a wall with a tank, I want it to fall down, and not bounce 
 the tank off it. The AI is fantastic. The Chimera indeed have their moments, but for the most part 
 they don't always stand around and get shot. What I enjoyed most about the gameplay occurs during 
 the large-scale battles taking place in the streets. There is so much chaos and confusion going 
 on that it really simulates a large-scale firefight. You don't feel as if you're the focal point. 
 Not all of the AI is coming to get you - pockets of enemies are doing battle with other human bots. 
 You can pick off Chimera that are engaged with other humans before getting shot at, and friendly 
 firecan be a common occurence. Overall, I was impressed with the game. I hope that more shooters 
 come out soon, as the world is waiting with baited breath for Killzone 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achilles438
Rating: 9.3
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  I remember the times when I was playing halo with my friends on a big 52 inch tv.... it was really 
 fun and I enjoyed the matches we had together. Now that those days are gone, i wanted to relive 
 them in a way and I can now with this game. This game has alot of unique weapons to choose from 
 to wreck destruction on your enemy, which I love. There are gernades, rocket launchers and all 
 types of machine guns and weapons to use. I like the flamethrower alot and also the ability to 
 shake the controller to get the fire off of you. In other games, once you got burned, your done. 
 The single player campaign was nice. Some say you dont learn enough about the main character, but 
 this is what i think; Who cares? I knew enough about what he was there to do, which was to assist 
 the English in destroying the Chimera any way possible. I didnt get this game to hear a biography 
 on the guy, I just wanted him to blast as many of the enemy as possible. And getting a look at 
 those creatures, I wanted to destroy them all.... really. Those are some ugly monsters, and they 
 deserved every bullet, rocket, flametoss, gernade, etc.. i have thrown at them so far. But i kinda 
 wished there was a Super boss at the end to fight besides the Angel. But i guess that is really 
 the only issue that I had with the game. And the multiplayer like i said is awsome. There is an 
 awards system, a stats sheet which to keep all the data in, and a command structure with clans 
 to join. It takes a long time to reach the officer corps in this game. I think they should have 
 made it a bit more military realistic and put something like, when they sign up for the first time, 
 if they havent completed the single player on hard, then they will be enlisted, if they have they 
 would be an officer. I think that would better resemble the military command structure. But overall, 
 i have enjoyed the pwnage I have dished out to many people online, from blowing people across the 
 land with rocket launchers, to the very funny melee kill, this game has everything im looking for 
 in a first person shooter. I have heard Gears of War is similar to this, but im in no hurry to 
 get it while i have this game.. and I advise if you have the bucks for a ps3, this game is a must 
 have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyvor
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 2, 2007 4:49 pm PT
Review:  The European PS3 launch would have been, quite frankly, a damp squib for me, if it had not been 
 for this, and 1 other, game. I found myself bitterly disappointed that the PS2 compatibility had 
 been removed as, being a massive fan of the Pro Evolution Soccer series, I've had to resort to 
 keeping my PS2 hooked up to my TV in order to play my favourite game, rather than go back to playing 
 Pro Ev 1..
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man, however, has made me see the light. I had wanted to get this game since 
 I read the first previews on Gamespot, which, although not exactly showering all aspects of the 
 game with praise, included a phrase which has now become very dear to my heart.... Split-Screen 
 Co-Op !
  
  My brother and I are avid gamers, and regularly get together for a drink and a go on the Playstation, 
 but FPS games have always been a no-go as they were single player only, and it gets kinda dull 
 watching after a while, regardless of how gruesome the action is!
  
  Then along comes the PS3 and Resistance. Excellent graphics that integrate seemlessly with the 
 cut scenes (to the point where you can easily be forgiven for not realising that the level has 
 started) and near-constant, adrenaline pumping action throughout, with some cool, bad-ass lookin' 
 weapons and bad-ass lookin' aliens to boot.. Throw in the split-screen co-op mode, which, by the 
 way, causes no slow-down whatsoever, and you have a game more than fit to grace this mightiest 
 of gaming machines.
  
  OK, so the developer could have spent a little time giving us more story, and a bit more dialogue 
 from the main character, but lets think for a second; it's a first person shooter, in which a mysterious 
 alien horde descends upon mankind, tears it to pieces and spits out what it can't chew. Do you 
 wanna talk about it, or do you wanna go shove a grenade up a Chimera's you-know-what? I, for one, 
 choose the second option. Did the original DOOM game have a story? Hell no, you just killed pixelated 
 demons, end of. Yet it's still thought of as THE classic FPS (though my personal taste leans more 
 toward Duke Nukem, Rip 'em a new one! ) . I sincerely hope there will be a follow-up seeing Sgt 
 Hale wandering into Russia and putting his boot where the Chimera really don't want it. And I'll 
 even add my own colourful dialogue if necessary!
  
  If you're not a fan of racing games, like me, and you own a PS3, this is, without a doubt, THE 
 PS3 launch title and you want this game. If you own a PS3 and enjoy sharing firefiighting, exploding, 
 alien-bashing games with your family and friends, without the need to analyse your oponents' motives, 
 you NEED this game.
  
  Get it.
  
  Now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man, a game that is worth noting for all Ps3 owners around the world. Why? 
 Not only does it have both great Single and Multiplayer gameplay, but it's packed full of wonderous 
 creatures, geletan smooth controls, and an envious bunch of creative weapons at your disposal. 
 If you're looking for some great campaigns and a good single player experiance, this is the game 
 for you, it contains a decent length quest and really gets your heart pumping. Prefer multiplayer? 
 This game supports 40 players per server, a first in console FPS, and contains thrilling multiplayer 
 explosions. Heck, try both. This is an absolute must for all Ps3 owners and FPS geeks alike.
  
  The single player campaign is great and can be reviewed as a B experiance. It tells a story 
 of a lone survivor from the US army, battling off Chimeras, a race of invading aliens, with an 
 arsernal of weapons. The single player experiance is great and shows the capacity at which FPS 
 immersion can climb to. Although the graphics are basically a Ps2 on heavy steroids with a decent 
 TV this games graphics will still look good.
  
  Graphics aren't this games key point though. The gameplay is. The multiplayer is a complete riot, 
 facing 40 players with no slow down online is FPS heaven. Right off you notice the nice audio as 
 your allies scream for help while bullets whiz through your bloody hands. The audio only helps 
 the gameplay at which you have a huge arsernal of weapons at your disposal, all with silky smooth 
 aiming and controls. All the weaponbs are different, and it requires you to use all the skills 
 you have. The gameplay, although it isn't totally unique, gives you the same experiance as smashing 
 Halo 2, Call Of Duty 3, and Medal Of Honor all together, then rip-roaring through it in one hour. 
 It feels good.
  
  The character designs and weapon designs are ambitous and never before seen in any FPS to date, 
 and although some points of the game aren't as good as it's hype, it still delivers some good experiance, 
 wether single player or multiplayer.
  
  The question is though: Is it the true Halo Killer? The answer is No. Although the controls and 
 character designs are on par (or better) , and the weapons are better, it still isn't as good for 
 some. Nevertheless this game will quench the thirst of FPS geeks all ove rthe world. Who cares 
 if it's not Halo 2? It's pretty damn close. Don't resist, just play and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pherstothelee
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 2, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  When I got my PS3, the first instinct was to buy this game along with the system, as it was for 
 everybody. Is this the killer app for the PS3? Is this game worth the 600 bucks one would shell 
 out for the system? Would this game be seen any differently if it wouldn't have to sell the PS3? 
 Find out my answers to these questions now.
  
  For this review, I'm going to set aside the fact that this is the killer app for the PS3 as described 
 by just about anyone, and just review Resistance as a game. The singleplayer campaign feels very 
 nice as you are thrown into a great story, and it's even more fun if you grab a friend and play 
 though the co-op mode. This was one of the few shooters that I actually wanted to play more of 
 solely because of the story. What seems weird though is that the second player is not mentioned 
 throughout the story which makes the parts where Nathan Hale is supposed to be alone quite weird. 
 The multiplayer is just as if not better than the singleplayer action. Ranked games are arranged 
 nicely so that no one can get into a room by themselves without the game being unranked. Also, 
 the ranked games are very fast when it comes to getting one started. One gripe I have is in the 
 rooms for eight and sixteen players, players have the tendency to spawn right on top of each other 
 and it all feels pretty crowded.
  
  The graphics in Resistance look nice, but I think that for a game that should be showcasing the 
 PS3's power, the graphics should have blown me away, but they didn't. I liked the detail on the 
 faces of the soldiers and the Chimera, but there was little detail on things like grass and the 
 environment itself. One of the things that I really liked was the physics engine. I am still mesmerized 
 by the physics and I constantly melee various objects to watch them fly across the room, and one 
 instance led me to meleeing an object that just so happened to be a Chimeran bomb that explodes 
 when damaged, which hurt me a little, but I was very impressed with the physics. I was also impressed 
 with the amount of soldiers on the screen at once. At some points in the game, such as the epic 
 battle in Manchester, there will be tons of human and Chimeran soldiers on the screen with no slowdown, 
 so although the graphics weren't all that impressive, they were better than PS2 quality and the 
 other aspects of graphics were applied very well.
  
  It's very hard for me to judge the sound in the game since I don't have surround sound, but I'll 
 give it a shot. The sound was okay in some parts and great in others. The voice acting could have 
 been a little better. Most of the voice acting was just a bunch of British soldiers yelling commands, 
 and the narrator sounded like she was reading from a piece of paper. There is some great voice 
 acting behind Nathan Hale, but he rarely talks, so it isn't really noticed. On the other end, the 
 gun sounds are great. Since every gun has different abilities, the sounds really needed to be different 
 so one would know what they were up against. This is applied great as the sounds between each gun 
 are very different, and I can usually figure out what gun is being used before it's too late.
 
  
  This game will last you a long time if you don't rush through it. There are many pickups to find 
 and a second run through is required to get some other weapons. You can't get around this by playing 
 multiplayer, because those weapons are never included in offline or online multiplayer. Speaking 
 of multiplayer, that is really where the game shines. One could bring a friend with them for the 
 co-op mode of the campaign or play through the ranking system which shows who is better than whom. 
 Even if you've already ranked up all the way, everyone should still be playing until May, when 
 the Europeans and Americans can prove their worth when the worldwide servers are opened.
  
  The big selling point of Resistance was the design of the game, mainly the weapons. The weapons 
 are great in the game. Every weapon has it's main fire, usually with a cool attribute, and then 
 a secondary fire, which provides a way to exploit this attribute. The basic gun is the Carbine, 
 which is just a machine gun. It's secondary fire is a grenade launcher. The Bullseye is the Chimeran 
 starting weapon, and it's secondary fire is a tag that allows all bullets to hit the tagged target. 
 One other gun of note is the Auger, which can shoot through any wall. The secondary fire is a shield 
 that you can shoot through, but your opponent can't, unless of course they have an Auger. The setting 
 is the usual: war torn, apocalyptic, World War II era, blown up churches. We've seen all this before, 
 but it works, and you can't argue with that. You're even fighting Germans here, except in Resistance, 
 they've been converted to the familiar Chimeran death dealers.
  
  With a great story, incredible multiplayer, intelligent design, and the fun/rage/I'm shooting stuff 
 factor, Resistance is the title to get for the PS3. Is this the killer app? No. Is this worth $600? 
 No. Is it a solid game plagued by these assumptions? Yes. Resistance is just a game living in the 
 shadow of its expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim-pagey
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 8, 2007 12:42 pm PT
Review:  This game is is just the right difficulty and is worth the money.
  
  it has great graphics and great gameplay. The music is not that great, during every mission so far 
 ive geard the same background music at least twice.
  
  The story line, is great but at some pojnts it is a bit silly, for example the character you play 
 is the only person who survives an a swarm off bugs attack. Also he is the only one who does not 
 get locked in a cell to be transormed into a chimera, how you escape it does not tell.
  
  I have completed the game and the end is great, you finally defeat the chimera.
  Going online 
 is also great and is worth playing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanDiff
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:22 am PT
Review:  It is the best shooter ever!
  I played it, completed it, then again, Now I'm playing it again but on hard.
  There is co-op, 
 online multiplayer with 40 people, Vehicles such as a jeep, army tank and a giant robot spider called 
 a stalker- you can drive them all!
  If you have A PS3 buy it, If you dont you should buy a PS3 for this game!
  It really is a great 
 game.
  I must have played atleast 100 hours including online, but I still need to unlock more uniforms, 
 get more medals etc.
  And by the way, play somerset online with 40 people... you will want to play it all day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ready2freeze
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 1, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I have played almost every game that is out on PS3. But this game is special.
  It gives u this feeling or reality. the guns are so detailed and so is the environment. But all 
 good games have some disadvantages.
  
  Even if u choose the Easy way, there are some missions that are really hard and u would start imagining 
 them in hard mode.
  
  The Checkpoint way is also not very fair, for some checkpoints you have to go a faaaaar and loooong 
 way. and if u die at the edge, too bad.
  
  The environment feels real, the sounds feel real and the best thing of all, the story line is so 
 exciting.
  
  I advise all lovers of FPS to buy this game for PS3.
  
  It will 'BLOW' your minds off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Musclassia
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 4:34 am PT
Review:  The launch of a next-generation (or now, current-gen) console is always highly anticipated. Will 
 it be worth the hype? Is it the best console? People can often make firm conclusions after one 
 game. This was the star of the launch line-up. What is my opinion at the moment? Launch titles 
 are never as good as what is to follow, but based on this, people can be cautiously optimistic 
 of PS3's future.
  
  Gameplay: Having only played the single-player campaign and yet to ventrue online, I cannot write 
 about what online is like. In single-player mode, we follow Nathan Hale, a US seargent sent over 
 to help Britain against the Chimera, an alien race who have invaded and taken over all of Europe, 
 and now Britain. You fight through Notttingham, Manchester, York, Cheddar Gorge and London, among 
 other locations in Britain. The locations are very vaguely similar to their real-life counterparts, 
 and serve as battlefields for the resistance against the Chimera. Some of the locations are wide-open 
 battlefield, some are urban street fightouts, and some are ventures through tunnels and buildings. 
 The closed locations of the tunnels and buildings build a sense of claustrophobia, not knowing 
 where the chimera will strike, and which type it will be. The locations are all excellent for FPS 
 battles. The Chimera come in man shapes, sizes and difficulty, and are good enemies in places, 
 some smart (using cover or closing you down) , and some are dumb (strolling out in the open in your 
 direction, open for the slaughter) . And finally, weapons. In terms of grenades, you get a standard 
 frag, and then a 'hedgehog', that shoots metal 'spines' in all directions in the vicinity, and 
 the air-fuel grenade, which is a cool version of a molotov. Then the weapons include a standard 
 carbine, a gun which can be used as a standard SMG, but can also shoot tags which all following 
 bullets will home in on, no matter what direction you shoot, a rapid-fire gun, a sniper rifle that 
 can slow down time temporarily, a gun that shoots cluster mines (and is rubbish IMO) , andan RPG. 
 All the guns, enemies, and locations form together into solid, if not awesome, gameplay.
  
  Graphics: A bit disappointing, having got used to seeing trailers for GTHD, MGS4 and Killzone, 
 but they couldn't have been shown on PS2, which locations, enemies and such all looking great.
 
  
  Sound: Gunfire sounds all give off cool sounds, voice-acting is excellent, and ambient sounds build 
 up a horror element in dark, confined locations.
  
  So, all in all, a top-notch, if not spectacular, entrance from PS3. Let's hope for more of this 
 quality.
  
  Score: 8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2sink
Rating: 4.6
Date: Apr 1, 2007 1:51 am PT
Review:  Good concept for a game but the presintation sucks! The game is litterly filled with problems from 
 the get go and where are the supposed stunning graphics i've only have my ps3 for about a month 
 now and im really regreting it. It really seems like anything that is worth playing on this system 
 is on another system. And WTF is with the LOAD TIMES! I wish I had of stuck with my 360... but 
 on the upside of this; being probley ps3's best game right now ( and im not kidding, look at the 
 score Im giving it here) that isn't on another system; the sound is actually really great but other 
 than that is game, even on a HD tv is just plain dull... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackleech
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 1, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  The single-player campaign, while well executed, is extremely cliched and also rather short. In 
 fact, it's possible to complete the game in less than 10 hours. However, fortunately, online gameplay 
 is much better and can get addictive.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  The graphics in Resistance are really impressive, especially the detail level when it comes to 
 environmental objects like vegetation and buildings. The character models (especially the ones 
 for the Chimera) are impressive as well.
  
  Sound: 8/10
  The sound and music are pretty alright - nothing noteworthy.
  
  Value: 8/10
  Even on the 
 hardest difficulty level, the single-player part is quite easy (compared to other games like FEAR) . 
 The only reasons one will replay it are the extra unlocked weapons and getting skill points for 
 multiplayer goodies. The plethora of medals and ribbons available for multiplayer also makes it 
 addictive to stat-concerned players.
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  Given how heavily this game was advertised, you'd expect more from it, but unfortunately the game 
 does not meet expectations.
  
  Good:
  The environments are immersive and the level design makes it seem like you're really in the battlefield.
 
  
  Bad:
  There is nothing original or really striking about the game, so it feels like one of those generic 
 alien shooters.
  
  Who Should Play:
  PS3 owners should definitely get this game, it's one of the best there is for the console right 
 now. Potential: +-0/10
  Insomniac Games does not seem to have any intentions of providing game extras.
  
  Conclusion:
 
  Resistance almost seems like a more multiplayer focussed game, given the brevity of the single 
 player portion. If you think there are other games you enjoy more (or aren't interested in online 
 player) , just rent Resistance, don't bother buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrdnpain
Rating: 7.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  I like the game overall, having completed about 60% of it so far, it's a well thought out FPS title 
 with plenty to offer all types of gamers.
  
  Graphics
  
  Overall, the graphics in Resistance are decent, they remind me strongly of Half Life 2 and also 
 seem to borrow some style from COD and other war-time titles. Textures generally look nice from 
 a distance, but there are certainly some shortcomings when you have a closer look. Many of the 
 environments look a little bit rushed, with the majority of all 'ground/floor' textures often looking 
 rough, repetitive and unoriginal. Lighting is well thought out, and the torch does come in handy 
 here and there, though not to the extent seen in Doom 3.
  
  Anti-aliasing is as discouraging as seen in a number of other (current generation) PS3 games. I 
 won't be impressed if games still have the dreaded 'jaggies' in a years time. In fact, I'll be 
 moving back to PC games if the overall game quality isn't keeping up with PC platform games.
  
  Audio
  
  I'm not an audio buff, but I found all of the sound effects pretty good, and the 
 score to be equally decent. I have to say that the game didn't have the same suspense or intensity 
 that I've had before with FPS titles such as HL2 or even GoW.
  
  Storyline
  
  Again, the title does feel quite rushed and the storyline is a little lacking, with only snippets 
 of information provided at the end/beginning of each level, and not much by way of cut scenes/climax 
 while in play.
  
  Gameplay
  
  I enjoyed much of the game play, although, it isn't as dynamic or unique as GoW but you can duck 
 and 'dodge' much of the gun fire while in play - which in some respects is quite unrealistic, but 
 helps to give players a fighting chance.
  
  Weapons
  
  The stand-out feature of the game is probably the nice range of very unique weapons, that make 
 good use of the processing power available on the PS3 cell system. It has to be seen to be believed, 
 but these weapons are 'smart' and deadly.
  
  Other points:
  
  AI is decent, but I found the difficulty scales from being quite easy through the first few hours 
 of play and becomes much more difficult as larger groups of enemies are all trying to blast away 
 at you - it's all a bit disappointing. The truth is, they haven't made it harder by making the 
 enemies more intelligent, but just added more enemies to kill. I haven't yet seen an enemy try 
 to shoot a barrel to blow me up or interact with the environment to cause my character harm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_pickle
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  The game is awesome but need better multiplayer service. It always puts me in the losing team. 
 Guns are too powerful but don't take wrong! I am a great player since socom 1 to assault! Really 
 is no point on team conversion because of the gun being too powerful. Single player is great. The 
 graphics ore great and the gameplay. Resistance is much of a testing you skill game because of 
 the weapon. Socom was better. It had vehicles to pick from! Resistance was my favorite game till 
 the godfather for ps3 and motorstorm!! I don't really play too much Resistance anymore. Great game 
 dough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: papasmurf786
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 31, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The gameplay is great the idea of having old school guns that everybody has seen before 
 but then also adding awesome new guns that are revolutionary is amazing. Like being able to tag 
 your opponent with the bullseye. Or shooting through walls with an auger. Weapons are great all 
 around. Plus the feature of solid AI esspecialy in the harder difficulties. Is great.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are top notch. It really shows what the PS3 can do while still using about 
 1/2 of its capabilitys. If you got HD it is mindblowing but even if you don't it is still breathtaking.
 
  
  Sound: Full fluid sound that is very realistic and makes you feel like you are actually firing 
 the gun.
  
  Online Play: One of the best online games out there. 40 players with no lag. Ranks which progess 
 over time. Also many skins and other accesories to trick out your soldier. Plus a large online 
 community to play with. Also the varitey of games are great with the orginal meltdown mode. The 
 game is top notch as is highly recommened for anyone with a ps3. The game is fun and keeps you 
 playing for months and months. And the great online play is icing on the cake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 30, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  When the Playstation 3 launched back November 17, 2006, most of the games it launched with were 
 crap. Most of them were already on Xbox 360 and looked better on it like Call of Duty 3. And the 
 few exclusive we did have were crappy for the most part like Genji and Untold Legends. There wasn't 
 really a reason to get a Playstation 3 at the time. That is if it weren't for Resistance: Fall 
 of Man.
  Resistance: Fall of Man is truly the saving grace of the Playstation 3 launch. This game showed 
 what a good launch game should be like. Sure, for the most part, it didn't become as popular as 
 Gears of War per say, because of GoW's graphics and because there were very few PS3's, but in my 
 eyes, this game is light years better than Gears of War. While Resistance may not have had visuals 
 that trump Gears of Wars in any way, shape or form, they were good nonetheless. When you compare 
 it to one of Xbox 360's launch games like Call of Duty 2, you can see how much better Resistance 
 looks. The games does a very good job of showing texture on the skin of the Chimera and you can 
 tell their skin is almost reptilian. The lighting is done decently but nothing spectacular. The 
 game does provide and excellent framerate that never falters (unless you go out of bounds) . Also, 
 another nice thing i noticed about the game is how the glass breaks. It breaks so beautifully, 
 something I have never seen in any other game (not even Gears) .
  The sound of the game is just phenomenal however. I have it hooked up to my stereo and its fantastic. 
 You can hear the Chimera talking in the floor above you plotting to kill you. The sound of bullets 
 as they go zooming passed your head. All of it is fantastic, including the voice acting. They really 
 do a good job of capturing the mood of the story and keeping you interested the whole time.
  This is another great thing about Resistance. It features a great, mysterious story that I think 
 is a must in all BIG shooters. You want to watch each cutscene to make sure that you keep up with 
 the story. And the end of the story is just great, although a little bit predictable.
  The gameplay of the game is the same basic gameplay of all FPSs. The nice thing about it however 
 is that if you don't like how the control are setup, you can change them to almost any reasonable 
 configuration. Also, the Chimera are some of the smartest, if not the smartest, enemies i have 
 ever faced. They will attack without showing mercy and if their first plan fails they will talk 
 amongst themselves and conduct another. This really makes the game hard because you have to constantly 
 stay one step ahead of the Chimera. This brings me to my next point. This game is hard. While its 
 not Devil May Cry 3, it is challenging. Medium mode will provide a nice challenge, but Hard mode 
 is what will really start to push you to the edge. Sure, the game starts off just a little bit 
 hard, but by the end, you will be seeing almost constant black and white screens followed by Nathan 
 Hale hitting the floor. Its a bit frustrating, but the end result is well worth it.
  Also, the game offers some nice replay value because after you beat it, you can play it again and 
 unlock a couple of new weapons. This is cool, but most of the weapons are pretty useless. Also, 
 if you beat the game on hard, you will unlock Superhuman mode which will really test your skills. 
 And if you beat that you will unlock either the Black Ops or Black Ops w/ Skull costume (depending 
 how many skill points you have) for use in online play.
  While the story mode is fun and offers some nice replay value, what you'll really spend your time 
 doing after you beat the 15 hour or so campaign is playing online multiplayer. And boy is it online 
 multiplayer. Up to 40 people online which is a console record as far as I know. It also offers 
 about 8 different forms of playing with Ranked and Custom Matches. This game also has a rank system 
 that works in Military Ranking and you unlock medals and badges for doing things like headshots 
 or 100 kills with the Bullseye. This offers great replay value to the online play. However, the 
 best thing in the game in my opinion is the weapon selection. The guns are incredible like the 
 Auger that can shoot through walls and kill your opponents. Awsome! The weapons are amazing.
  If you have a PS3, then you pretty much have no choice but to buy this game. Honestly, its the 
 best FPS I've played in a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeMphiZ
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a title, alof of times announced as a next generation title and a highlight! for 
 the new console.... I have to play Resistance isent that special or is doing somethin absolutely 
 best but what the game does it does it pretty well! the story is fine and told pretty good, from 
 the start to the end you will get really good level design with a fair playstyle, new weapons new 
 enemies and new level characteristics... and like i said, the game doing everything very good, 
 not amazing or fantastic but just pretty good. good to great looking graphics, nice and fair level 
 design. some cool not onyl 08/15 weapons, well told story, and atmosphere through the whole game. 
 Finally insomniac did a impressive job for their first ego-shooter and resistance is a great game 
 for a start and wont dismiss someone who buy it for his new console.
  
  + atmosphere
  + good2great graphics without any lowframe problems (like call of duty for example has)
  + story
 
  + leveldesign
  + dirt and some level effects looks cool
  
  - graphics could be better for a next generation title
  - weapons dont change so much
  - sound/music 
 could be a bit better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azuroc
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan of FPS'. I tend to stick with RPG and Action games, but Resistance is a solid exception 
 just like Goldeneye was in its prime. The game is very much a traditional FPS, but done well. The 
 last FPS I played was Halo 2, and it did not impress me very much. Resistance was great in comparison, 
 it took me back to the glory days of Goldeneye and multiplayer matches with my comrades. I would 
 have to say that Resistance's strongest attribute is its speed and response. Halo always felt clunky 
 and sloppy, but Resistance feels very polished and refined. Some of the areas could've used some 
 graphical refinement, but all in all, the gameplay is perfect.
  
  I don't like getting into the details of the game mechanics and such cause you can either read 
 that in the gamespot review.
  
  I will say that every PS3 owner should have this game because I can see it becoming a returning 
 franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricardo -- Diaz
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 1:45 am PT
Review:  Nothing new and almost everything old.
  Weapons are fun if not spectacular. Each have a secondary fire mode.
  AI is not perfect, in fact 
 its functional.
  Game can be hard at times, especially if you try and ruch things hoewever plenty of pick ups along 
 the way including health and amo.
  To keep things interested you collect more weapons as you go along.
  
  Graphics are crisp and 
 detailed even if the level design is a little bland.
  The draw distance can be very large in scope at times. Your mainly set down a limited path in the 
 chosen direction the game moves forward.
  
  Not a lenghty game but long enough to hold your interest. The sound is nothing special being repetetive 
 throughout. You can control a jeep, tank and a walking shooting robot creature.
  
  Your team do little to help you but is impressive to see them running along side you but wears 
 thin leaving you on your own most of the time later in the game.
  
  The gamplay is fast without the aming being completely accurate and involves you moving about a 
 lot to dodge incoming fire.
  
  Its a great ps3 launch game and a start of a great new franchise even if it is similar to every 
 other shooter out there.
  The story is good to watch and makes you want to play. At times the levels can be interesting but 
 never really go beyond that leaving it a little flat.
  
  A great shooter that does the shooting well and some fun to be had with the weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:28 pm PT
Review:  With the mass amount of hype around this game, I was let down by the Single player, but picked 
 up by the amazing Multi-Player.
  
  The Campaign is simple, maybe a 2 time more replay value, but nothing more. Story is same as heard 
 millions of times over with a few twists and turns but nothing out of the park extradorniary. The 
 real game starts with the Mutli-Player.
  
  Like in some other games, you gain ranks and uniforms based on how your combat and skill. With 
 up to 40 players on a map at once, there is action on every second on every battle. Mostly played 
 on Free-For-All and Team Deathmatch, it also features a die twice battle which is fun but can get 
 boring when it comes down to the last few and all they do is sit. Glad to see they will be coming 
 out with new maps and different game versions in the future because after countless times ranking 
 up to the maps and not many clan battles going on due to the fact that not to many people own headsets 
 and can only send messages until more own microphones and headsets.
  
  This is another game that if you own something like Halo 2 there isn't a large reason to buy it 
 if you don't like going online; but it is hard to find a new good first person shooter that handels 
 as many people on a map and constant killing. It isn't a game that pushes the PS3, but was the 
 best launch title they had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hawkeye_33
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  Nothing to new here. Ive been there done all that stuff in games like Halo Half Life and quake. 
 Just seemed so ripped off this game. Pretty nice graphics and multiplayer is cool But it was a 
 pretty easy game. 10-12hrs tops. In the end I just felt Blah about the game cause It was just the 
 same old stuff with nothing new. But its worth checking out. Once you beat it though doesnt really 
 have much replay value after that. Thats where the multiplayer shines. But if your not big into 
 Multiplayer then tough luck I guess. Just wait for a solid FPS to come out like Unreal 2007 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WisconsinBatman
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 28, 2007 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I don't have an awful lot to say about this game that is groundbreaking or overly exciting, except 
 it is a good game.
  
  It's a fun aspect, not knowing anything about the game, putting it in, and finding out that Europe 
 has been over run with alien-like creatures. Oh yeah, and its WW2 era!
  
  So lets see, I've got WW2 era guns, the bad guys have futuristic guns that can lock on an enemy 
 (the same way the gun in The Fifth Element worked) , shoot through walls, and do a number of other 
 wacky and cool things too. But wait! The WW2 guns also seem to pack a punch, so it's not unbalanced! 
 Sweet!
  
  Sadly though, it doesn't stand out other then that in comparison to other good first person shooters. 
 The controls are good, the graphics are what are to be expected from a next-gen system, and the 
 sound is standard.
  
  But this is defiantly not a bad thing. This game being an early generation game only shows what 
 the system will be capable of in the future. Just remember the game Summoner for the PS2, not to 
 standout, but it was just the first step on the ladder for RPGs. I expect there will be an excellent, 
 intuitive sequel coming out sometime within the next year, which will raise the bar on this treaded 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Nothing new and almost everything old.
  Weapons are fun if not spectacular. Each have a secondary fire mode.
  AI is not perfect.
  Game 
 can be hard at times, especially if you try and rush things, hoewever, plenty of pick ups along 
 the way including health and ammo.
  To keep things interested you collect more weapons as you go along.
  
  Graphics are crisp and 
 detailed even if the level design is a little bland.
  The draw distance can be very large in scope at times. You're mainly set down a limited path in 
 the chosen direction the game wants to move you forward.
  
  Not a lenghty game but long enough to hold your interest. The sound is nothing special being repetetive 
 throughout. You can control a jeep, tank and a walking shooting robot creature.
  
  Your team do little to help you but is impressive to see them running along side you but wears 
 thin, leaving you on your own most of the time later in the game.
  
  The gamplay is fast without the aming being completely accurate and involves you moving about a 
 lot to dodge incoming fire. This would go hand in had with the less than perfect enemy A. I.
  
  Resistance is a great PS3 launch game and a start of a great new franchise, even if it is similar 
 to every other shooter out there.
  The story is good to watch and makes you want to play. At times the levels can be interesting but 
 never really go beyond that, leaving it a little stale.
  
  A great shooter that does the shooting well and some fun to be had with the weapons. A pat on the 
 back for insomniac games crafting a fine shooter with some ideas from they're Ratchet & Clank games, 
 i. e, the familiarity in weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  What I really liked about this game was the various creative weapons they came up with. Weapons 
 that can shoot through walls, shields that only your shots can go through, richocet bullets, spiked 
 grenades, etc. It was refreshing to see new weapons. They spent some time developing a story which 
 was nice. The graphics in the game are good, I wouldn't say Gears of War good by any means, but 
 still lots of cool looking levels and creatures in the game. Reminds me of half-life 2 and call 
 of duty mixed into one. There is also very good replay value since new weapons become available 
 after you pass it the first time, so you can play through the game again with a whole new assortment 
 of weapons. This was a brilliant idea. Co-op is not available online, only as a split screen. This 
 really hurt in terms of an overall score. The multiplayer is very well developed offering experience 
 points to move up in rank. It keeps track of many stats along the way. You can join a clan and 
 set up clan matches, play ranked games, or just play for fun. Many different options to choose 
 from. Overall, this game was fun to play. I would have preferred online co-op, but single player 
 was still a lot of fun. The replay value should keep you busy for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenny_2469
Rating: 7.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:54 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I ever played on Playstation 3. Due to all the hype of this game, I was 
 expecting something along the lines of Gears of War style gameplay. Of course the first thing I 
 noticed was the online play, the online play will keep you busy for quite some time. I also noticed 
 the graphics were very smooth and detailed. The characters were very well done. Resistance has 
 a fair story line that is pretty easy to go along with. As for noticing anything else, thats about 
 where it ended for me. I have to say at first this game was very exciting to play; the levels were 
 well designed, it sounded like a realistic environment, but after playing the campaign mode for 
 a few hours I got very sick of it. It all seemed the same. It seemed as if I were fighting the 
 same creatures over and over and over again. The weapons weren't changing and I just became bored 
 with the campaign mode. Positives:
  
  +Online Play
  
  +Great Graphics +Good Sound Effects
  
  +Nice Story Line
  
  +It's a decent game for the 
 PS3
  
  Negatives:
  
  -Repetitive Gamplay
  
  -Re-Occuring Enemies Over And Over And Over
  
  -Weak Weapon Selection
  
  Overall this is 
 a good game for the Playstation 3, but I think it could have been much better with a couple small 
 changes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alucard7321
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh another war game... World War 2 eh? Yea... fun times fun times.... silly Private Ryan.... silly 
 Meg Ryan.... WHAT!? Aliens?! We're fighting Aliens?!
  
  Yea, i guess we are, shame the alien invasion in the alternative reality of Earth's World War 2 
 isn't as fun as it was hyped up to be.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Ok... now... i hate console shoot em up games. Why? Because to be honest you control your perspective 
 with another analogue stick... which to be honest... isn't accurate.. so much so they have to give 
 you an auto-lock on, my point proven.
  
  Guns are fine, i read reviews about them, hearing the overly excited UK journalist froathing at 
 the mouth at the fluidity and kick of the Bullseye gun. However, then i realised something crucial:
 
  
  UK SUCKS FOR GUNS!!! Look at what our army uses nowadays for example.... joke weaponary. Anyhow 
 moving on:
  
  So guns.... some are fun, and thats a SMALL some unfortunatly. The shotgun felt like i was shooting 
 out of a baseball bat or something surreal. The M14 is satisfying to use to a point, the bullseye 
 is o-k. Everything else is a yawn... to be honest i thought they would have come up with better 
 ideas for weaponary since an advanced alien race has invaded the planet so.... shouldn't the weapons 
 be more fun aswell as deadlier???? Ok... maybe not more fun, but still...
  
  Level design... its ok... to be honest, its a bit boring... quite unimaginative. Honestly... alien 
 invasion where aliens capture humans and turn them into aliens.... hmm... what other shoot em up 
 game is like this?
  
  *cough* QUAKE 4...
  
  Yes INDEED! But Quake 4 was more fun! How? Better weapons and level design thats how! Also enemies 
 were more varied but unfortunatly just as stupid as the ones in this game.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Beautiful i have to say.... even though most of the game is very brown. Its not a colourful 
 game however you can see how the graphics shine in certain points in this game. Though i do feel 
 its been hyped a bit too freaking much in this department by various tabloids. Netherless, its 
 still excellent.
  
  Sound:
  
  Worse soundtrack ever. Honestly, who do they hire for these games? Jeremy Soule the idiot who did 
 Oblivion?!.... Honestly... they think nowadays they can get away with doing a 3 second snare drum 
 roll with trombone and timpani riff and then deem it dramatic - Pathetic.
  
  General sound FX is good, not great. Weapons sounds are o-k. Voice acting is so english is almost 
 funny :)
  
  Value:
  
  Lets see. You have Half Life 2 and its excellent Episode 1, you have Quake 4 and you also have 
 recently S. T. A. L. K. E. R. To be honest what i'm saying is that in the world of FPS, this game holds 
 nothing against the latter mentioned.
  
  Half Life 2 has unparelled level and script design.
  Quake 4 has wonderful and fun weapons and 
 enemies to kill.
  S. T. A. L. K. E. R has in-depth story and realistic weapon physics aswell as a good blend of horror 
 and sci fi .
  
  To be honest my point is. If your a long time FPS player like me, this will be a passing moment 
 in the many moments of better momenets that should be aknowledged.
  
  To be honest its like Halo in the same sense. Its a launch title, one that everyone knows its going 
 to get higher than 7 marks by most tabloids. Halo was average and forever will be, marred by the 
 same gameplay problems this game has and unoriginal content and flimsy level design: (yep, big 
 open area enviroments doesn't justify its a better game e. g Halo.... i mean Serious Sam did it and 
 that was a better game than Halo &gt;_&gt; )
  
  Its got its good points and bad points. Good being its graphics, its bad being that its cloaking 
 in a veil of hype that it offers nothing to the FPS genre that has already been done before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deathbringerjmc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  This was the second game i ever played for the ps3 and i wasn't disappointed now i did die a few 
 times at the start mainly because i forgot which i like inverted or not but that aside this games 
 is fun with great looking environments and great game play it is a solid FPS,
  As for the story goes in most FPS games story's can be no existent but here it runs wild with cut 
 scene and narrative bits between every thing this helps you get whats going on behind the guns 
 and fire and don't forget the blood oh man is there blood.
  This game is like playing a darker half life 2 with a mix of war of the worlds in part it can get 
 pretty crazy when you got UK solders running next to you with the chimera running at ya with explosions 
 and fire and broken buildings all around you find your self not really breathing and right on the 
 edge of your seat.
  
  to sum this game up its a must own for the PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snaretrap745
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 27, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  eh. not much to this game. same 1st person shooter we've all seen. it's basically just halo meets 
 doom 3 meets resident evil meets call of duty (for the war aspect) . the graphics are pretty good, 
 but don't even touch on what the ps3 is capable of. vehicle physics suck. i can drive on rocks 
 at an 80 degree angle no prob, and the jeep never rolls or turns upside down. i guess just buy 
 it and play it until something better comes out.
  
  i will say, however, that 40 person multiplayer is pretty sweet (the only reason i give tilt a 
 9) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eliteshooter
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game is probrally the best FPS you'll find out there for the PS3
  
  Gameplay: Fun. The gameplay is ..... alright i could say. But single player isnt that fun. The 
 reson why i gave the gameplay a 9 was cause of the online play. If it had no multiplayer this game 
 would be in my trash right now. Graphics: WOW. The graphics was just wicked its like the best looking 
 game i've seen for rhe PS3 ( not including oblivion) .
  
  Sound: Nice. The sound aint bad. You know me i hate Starwars. The bullseye gun sounded almost exacally 
 like the Starwars laser blaster thingy majigy. But overall the sound was pretty good. Value: Meh. 
 if your looking for a good FPS game this is it ( for now.....) but if you dont mind playing RPG 
 or Racing try to get Oblivion for the PS3 or MotorStorm for the PS3
  
  Good Job Insomniac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock_around83
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  Though it resembles Half Life alot, the storyline and action makes it a great ps3 game. plus it 
 has a new concept about 'what our world could have been'!
  
  I also thought its not much different from Gears of War either only its always first person and 
 not 3rd. The guns are new and look quite futuristic but since its the 1940's they still have a 
 sort of olden day weapons touch like the wooden handles, old shot guns etc, but other guns like 
 the auger look very futuristic!
  
  The graphics are great but not everything is destructive enough, little blood comes out of the 
 enemy, headshots require 2, blasts not big enough though the shotgun is impresive.
  
  Though the storyline lacks something, the online play makes it worth while, and it is the strongest 
 attribute of the game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 7.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:21 pm PT
Review:  If you have a PS3 R: FOM is a must have its probably the best game in the PS3s ugly, small libary 
 of games. As my first next gen games the graphics will make your jaws drop, that's a garuntee. But 
 R: FOM lacks in everything else. The player doesent know hardly anything about the character there 
 are plaing as (he only speaks less than 10 sentances in the actual game) The actual gameplay and 
 playing enviroments do start to get repepitive and the producers DID NOT keep there promise of 
 'fully destructable enviroments' or 'a non linear storyplot', which is a huge letdown for such a 
 great game. Bad parts over! R: FOM does have intresting exciting scenes where you fight hordes of 
 crawlers or a huge ogre like beast known as a titan. But that only takes up 3-5% of gameplay the 
 reat is just chimera, chimera, chimera. like a mentioned it does get really boring on occasion. But 
 its good enough for a game which i would buy a sequel to. Online play on resistance is one of its 
 most strongest parts. its fun, smooth and not TOO complicated. Best game on PS3? Definately, but it 
 will easily be surpassed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpriego76
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  I have played most of the current PS3 game line up so far and this is bar none the top game of 
 the list. No matter how many times you beat the game, it never gets old. My only complain is that 
 the game's difficulty is not evenly distributed. Some levels are ridiculously hard even at the 
 easy level. The check point system of saving the game is also unfair at times. it will sometimes 
 make you go a loong way before you get a save. if you die in between, you got to go a long way 
 back and try again! However, this is just a handful of missions and for the most part it is OK 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hallgren
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 27, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  The best part about this game is how well paced it is. There was never a time where i felt the 
 game dragged or slowed down at all. The gameplay was great as there were many different paths to 
 confront your enemies whether it be head on or by flanking them. This adds great depth to the gameplay. 
 The other great aspect of this game is your arsenal of weapons. I don't think insomniac can make 
 a game without having a ton of weapons at your disposal to use. Each weapon adds it's own unique 
 aspect to the gameplay. The story was good with a nice little tease at the end that screams sequel 
 to you. The online experience was great as well and ran very smoothly! All in all this was a great 
 game that is easy to recommend to anyone with a PS3!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  Ok just so you know i am playing Resistance on my PS3 that is in my room with a noname brand SDTV 
 but it still looks amazing it really is a well consturcted game with a solid story that immerses 
 you i have only had my PS3 for 4 going on 5 days now and every chance i get i am playing Resistance 
 instead of doing homework (i'm in VCE or year 11 and should be focusing on work) . Anyway from the 
 very first mission you see the amazing graphics and some physics at work when a chimeran rocket 
 hits the transport you just hoped out of and it comes crashing to the ground in a great ball of 
 flames and heat effects, now thats annother thing Resistance does well if you are in transition 
 from PS2 or XBOX1 to PS3 and play Resistance you will be amazed even if you are playing on a SDTV 
 (it also looks particularly good on a HD projector =] ) . now we have all heard about the massive 
 online and the no lag claims well i have been playing online and played my first 28 player game 
 yesterday (its hard to find a 40 player game in australia right now) and it was completly lag free 
 and smooth it was a really uplifting online experience. now if you are into little details that 
 seem insignificant to some people (like me) then resistance is for you for instaence if you were 
 to shoot at a window in say a PS2 FPS the glass would just shatter even if you only shoot one bullet, 
 in resistance however you shoot at a window it will make a bullet like crack in the glass if you 
 keep shooting the window pieces will fall out after a few more bullets it will shatter just like 
 a real window. now the chimera are particularly nasty who hate humans so if your like me you will 
 want to shoot at their kneecaps to give them a particularly painfull death if you do shoot them 
 in the caps their legs will buckle and they will slump to the ground rather patheticly. i'm not 
 going to talk much about the story line cos i dont want to give anything away so this is where 
 i will end it pretty much if you own a PS3 or are thinking of owning one you NEED Resistance: Fall 
 of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skillzdatkillz0
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 26, 2007 12:01 am PT
Review:  Let me sum this up quickly,
  Resistance is the launch title I was always going to get. I saw it as something to simply tide 
 me over until games like LittleBigPlanet and MGS4 came out. I was delighted then when I began to 
 play and found myself immersed in such a high-quality game. The game play itself is great, with 
 imaginative weapons and a delicate balance of rushing and finding cover to survive. Online is hassle-free 
 and lots of fun, with no lag to complain of and no lack of servers to play on, even though the 
 game had only been released for 1 day in Australia when I first played it. Weapons are well refined 
 and require a certain degree of skill and mastery.
  All in all this game is a must-have for ps3 owners everywhere and, with internet enabled, one i 
 can see myself playing for a very long time to come..
  Skillz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GearsOfWar2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 11:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing for any one with a PS3!!! Resistance takes place in a grim alternate reality 
 in which World War II never happened, yet something possibly even worse happened instead. As political 
 tensions run high in the middle of the 20th century, a monstrous race of horrifying creatures suddenly 
 shows up and starts killing everyone. Initially presumed to be a Russian biological weapon, this 
 fiendish species is known as the Chimera. It quickly overwhelms Asia and most of Europe before 
 it focuses attention on the United Kingdom. In the game, you play as a no-nonsense American soldier 
 named Nathan Hale, who is sent in to reinforce the UK's defenses. A brush with death early on gives 
 Hale a unique perspective of his foe and, before long, he's lone-wolfing it against the worst that 
 the Chimera has to offer. As Hale, you'll blast your way through the devastated streets of England 
 and also find yourself deep within the enemy's own territory as you struggle to survive and turn 
 the tide of a losing battle. The story is told from the perspective of a different officer who 
 briefly interacts with Hale during his missions against a seemingly unstoppable enemy. Her solemn 
 narration is easy enough to follow but not particularly engaging because by her own admission, 
 she doesn't really know what's going on in Hale's head or what's going on with the Chimera. Brief 
 but nicely done cinematic cutscenes using the game's 3D engine at least serve to give Nathan Hale 
 a believably concerned look between battles. Still black-and-white images and charts that are made 
 to look as if they could have come from the early '50s also help set the mood and premise of each 
 level in the game's more than 10 main stages. However, the story in Resistance is there mostly 
 to justify a number of fairly conventional, though very well done, first-person shooter battles. 
 You'll learn a bit about the Chimera as you fight, and there's some resolution once you finally 
 finish the campaign after countless grueling shoot-outs. But Hale's character is never developed 
 and he almost never speaks, and the plot has some noticeable gaps. Ultimately, this is a game whose 
 personality mostly comes across when you're shooting something. The Chimera and their ugly spider-like 
 features make them easy to hate straightaway 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the best launch titles of the PS3. It uses most of the console's 
 key features such as the motion sensor in close combat. The gameplay is totally addictive and one 
 true adrenaline rush. Players much choose their weapons carefully according to ever-changing combat 
 scenarios. The sound and graphics are just amazing and unprecedented. The storyline is very interesting 
 and original. Players get to understand the story much better as they pick up intel documents and 
 play over and over. Multiplayer is awesome although it doesn't hold anything innovative. Overall, 
 this is a new instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: loud_mouth_94
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  This has to be the best game for the PS3 so far. It never gets boring no matter how many times 
 you play it. The graphics are great and the game play is awesome. Not to mention that it has got 
 some of the most unique kick butt weapons that you will ever see. The game play is truly intense. 
 You never find yourself getting bored no matter how many times or how long you play it. I was definitely 
 not disappointed in buying this game. Anyone who owns a PS3 and likes first person shooters should 
 definitely look into buying this game if they don't already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElSatanno
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 25, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  When it comes to first-person shooters, theres a very high bar which separates the excellent from 
 the simply mediocre. A combination of sharp graphics, interesting weapons, intelligent AI, and 
 clever level design are usually at the top of the list. Fortunately for Sony and Insomniac, Resistance: 
 Fall of Man meets these requirements with room to spare. While the game doesnt break new ground 
 in any spectacular fashion, it delivers an outstanding experience by all counts. A comprehensive 
 and user-friendly online mode round out the package to make Resistance: Fall of Man a game which 
 virtually no PS3 gamer should be without.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man takes place in a fictional take on post-WW2 Britain, where the remnants 
 of the British army are fighting a losing battle against the Chimera, a hideous race of creatures 
 which apparently originated somewhere in Communist Russia as part of a failed biological warfare 
 experiment. You play as Nathan Hale, a US Army sergeant deployed to Britain as part of the US attempt 
 to aid the Brits in exchange for a secret weapon. While Hale says very little over the course of 
 the game, (a liberal estimate would be five lines of dialogue in total) the story is mostly told 
 through a series of still montages narrated by Rachel Parker, the head of British Intelligence, 
 whom youll meet early on in the story. These montages offer a nice bit of verisimilitude, as all 
 the photos that accompany the narration are presented in sepia tones, and tactical maps are presented 
 to show troop movements, giving the whole thing an authentic historical feel. But since you never 
 encounter battles of more than about 15 combatants in total, things feel more like modern combat 
 engagements than Battle of Normandy-sized assaults.
  
  From the get-go, Resistance throws you in the middle of things. Newcomers to FPS games may find 
 things challenging, but not frustratingly so. Even on the easy difficulty, your opponents are no 
 pushovers. In fact, most of your enemies are quick, clever, and merciless. They will take cover 
 and pop out to fire at you, work in teams to attempt to flank you, flush you out with grenades, 
 and often simply rush in and beat you to death with a couple of melee strikes. Other enemies make 
 use of their mobility and leap or run about before attacking from an advantageous position. No 
 one is going to accuse the AI of genius, but its built well enough that you wont feel like youre 
 shooting fish in a barrel. Whats more is that each variety of Chimera behaves like youd expect 
 it to. So the basic Hybrid soldier generally fights in a duck-and-shoot manner, and the more heavily 
 armed Steelheads tend to unload their clips at you without hesitation. Ironically, your computer 
 allies are not nearly as resourceful or accurate as your foes, but still manage to not be totally 
 worthless. Maybe this is why Europe fell so rapidly to the Chimera? At any rate, while the battles 
 are fairly straightforward, the generally high level of toughness the Chimera exhibit make firefights 
 rather exciting affairs. Resistance also makes clever use of the Sixaxis controller, as shaking 
 it will dislodge enemies who have grabbed onto you, swat flames out, or knock off enemy weapons 
 stuck to you.
  
  At several different points in the game, youll find yourself behind the wheel (or whatever) of 
 a couple different vehicles. The stages that use them often go from foot to vehicle and again, 
 which is really a good thing, since these sequences arent terribly interesting compared to the 
 rest of the game. For better or worse, they tend to be quite short, so if you hate driving around, 
 you wont be forced to do it for too long.
  
  There are a sizable assortment of weapons which youll collect at preset points in your fight, 
 and Insomniac has used their creative talents to the fullest, creating an arsenal which holds plenty 
 of interesting surprises for even veteran gamers. You start off with the M5A2 carbine, a handy 
 assault rifle with an under-slung 40mm grenade launcher. This baby is accurate and has a rapid 
 rate-of-fire, making it a solid weapon throughout the entire game. This is a nice contrast from 
 many other FPS games where your initial loadout quickly becomes obsolete. Fairly early on youll 
 also grab the Chimeran Bullseye assault rifle which sports a faster rate-of-fire and larger magazine 
 than the M5A2, but loses accuracy over range much faster. However the alternate fire mode launches 
 a tag beacon which causes all of your shots to home in on the target, even to the point of making 
 90 degree turns around corners. Youll quickly find this to be a frighteningly efficient way of 
 taking out opponents from behind cover. Another fun example is the Hailstorm, a weapon which fires 
 a stream of needle-like projectiles which ricochet off walls, or can alternately launch a full 
 clip into the air as a stationary drone which auto-targets enemies. Youll end up making good use 
 of almost all the weapons you find as well, since your enemies come in lots of different varieties 
 and never alone. In addition, once you finish the game, youll unlock a handful of new weapons 
 to find on subsequent play-throughs.
  
  All the gunfire and explosions sound top-notch as well, making fighting very engaging. Lots of 
 authentic-sounding effects, like bullets smashing into concrete and breaking glass, along with 
 the jingle of straps and buckles as characters move around render the atmosphere very convincing. 
 Moreover theres a lot of chatter from both sides, and your consistently doomed allies display 
 a fair bit of personality before they meet their ends. Theres not a lot of music in R: FoM, which 
 consists mostly of atmospheric background pieces outside of combat. Of course, the bulk of the 
 game does happen in combat, and the score accentuates the tension nicely. That is, when you can 
 manage to hear it over the chaos going on around you.
  
  There are ten different levels that youll tear up on your way to the end of the game, and while 
 they certainly do an exemplary job of portraying a war-torn country, most stages end up looking 
 rather grey and bland. The indoor levels arent shelled-out like the countryside so theres more 
 color there. Thats not to say there isnt plenty to look at in all locales, as the clarity of 
 all the textures really shows the power of the PS3 well. Every surface is presented in convincing 
 detail which holds up no matter how close you look. The indoor lighting is used to particularly 
 good effect to provide a rather creepy, moody tone to everything. Obviously, this is war, so expect 
 lots of explosions and smoke to fill the screen, sometimes obscuring your view like it would in 
 a real firefight. One particularly impressive environmental touch, albeit minor, is how realistically 
 glass reacts to gunfire. There are no pre-rendered glass fracture images short of blowing the whole 
 pane out, and though you may not find many opportunities to enjoy this little tidbit, it is there.
 
  
  Likewise, the character models exhibit a fantastic amount of detail and expressiveness. Despite 
 the fact that all your battle buddies look fairly similar, the Chimera come in various shapes and 
 sizes, and all of them are suitably monstrous. Zooming in with your trusty sniper rifle allows 
 you to briefly appreciate the level of detail that goes into every enemy before you picking them 
 off. Just as with the environments, other characters look fleshy and life-like up close. Getting 
 chomped by Menials, the unarmed shuffling variety of Chimera, offers you an unpleasant look into 
 their mouths, for example. It seems a bit odd by contrast that downed enemies often come to rest 
 in rather unnatural looking positions, and the smaller enemies burst into chunks whether shot, 
 burned, or smacked with a rifle butt.
  
  The main campaign can be played solo or cooperatively in split-screen, and will take about 15-20 
 hours to complete on the medium difficulty level. The chapters are actually fairly short in and 
 of themselves, but take more time to complete since youll probably end up dying several times 
 before learning where your enemies come from. As mentioned earlier, finishing the game once unlocks 
 new weapons, as well as higher difficulty levels. Also along the way, youll probably end up earning 
 skill points for completing certain tasks in each area, which automatically unlock even more goodies. 
 There are lots of these skill points, and some are extremely challenging, offering good replay 
 value as you attempt to get every one.
  
  Of course no FPS would be complete without multi-player support. R: FoM offers up to four players 
 in split-screen, or up to an impressive forty online. There are a wealth of options for multiplayer, 
 and they all perform virtually lag-free, online or off. The maps are very well-designed, and almost 
 all of them can be scaled through various sizes to accommodate differently sized groups. You get 
 the standard Deathmatch, Capture the Flag, and Arena (called Conversion) modes, all in solo and 
 team flavors. Conversion has a unique twist on the arena recipe, as you begin as a human, but upon 
 dying, respawn as a Chimera for another chance. Insomniac also ginned up two new team modes for 
 Resistance, called Breach and Meltdown. In Meltdown, teams compete to attack their opponents cooling 
 nodes, which raises the temperature of the teams central reactor core. Destroy all the nodes, 
 and your opponents reactor will overheat, granting you victory. In Breach, the nodes make an appearance 
 again, but this time as respawn points which you can use when killed; the objective is to attack 
 your opponents core directly.
  
  Resistance packs a colossal amount of online stat-tracking, which ties directly into a staggering 
 amount of medals, ribbons, and unlockable skins. Racking up these prizes is made easier and more 
 enjoyable by an automated matchmaking system which attempts to put you into games with other players 
 of similar ability. Of course, depending on time of day, you may (and often will) end up with very 
 high-level players who dominate the game anyway.
  
  Theres very little to complain about with this game. For first-generation PS3, and indeed among 
 all FPS games, Resistance nails just about everything you could ask for. Whats more important, 
 its simply crazy fun to play. The bottom line is that Resistance: Fall of Man is a must-have title, 
 and is going to be a very hard act to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matrixman03
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 25, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  I've finally dove into the next generation of video games and I went with Sony once again. The 
 second I opened the box I knew that the PS3 was going to be something special.
  
  Well, I set up my black monolith and inserted my very first blu-ray disc... Resistance: Fall of 
 Man. Gameplay: The assortment of weapons is nice, yet I seemed to rely on my basic arsenal during 
 most of the fights. The game is like a combination of Half Life, Halo, and Quake. The health mechanic 
 and vehicle gameplay is very similar to the Halo series. The enemies and their technology reminds 
 me of Quake, and some of the crawling enemies remind me of the head crabs from Half Life 2.
  
  Graphics: This is my first next gen game and I have to say that I'm impressed. The frame rate 
 is fantastic and everything looks great. I know a lot of reviewers complained that it is a very 
 brown game, which is true. The colors in each environment are very dreary and war like. Don't expect 
 anything out of a page of Far Cry when it comes to atmosphere.
  
  Sound is definitely one of the game's strong points. Weapons, enemy cries, explosions, and fellow 
 soldiers really create a war like experience. Value: This is one of the PS3 games available that 
 you HAVE to own. If by chance you have a PS3 and neglected to get this game... well then pick it 
 up! If you do not own a PS3, then this is the first game you should pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: markt63
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:14 pm PT
Review:  the is the first game i have played on the ps3 and i can honestly say its amazing , right from 
 the start your eyes are wide open nearly as much asyour mouth the full motion video is excellent 
 , but when it opens the screen up and continues as the game you wont believe it the graphics are 
 mind blowing in every detail , the enemy ai is as good as it gets , i have seen comparrisons to 
 halo , gear of war ect on the 360 , yes there good but they are miles behind this in every respect 
 . gears of war is like all 360 fps shooters same thing kills all enemies i e button bashing , not 
 here they hide better try and flank you , trick you rush you the full lot its amazing buy it now 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  In advance, I only have 3 hours of play with this game.
  
  Resistance is a solid game, but not the behemoth that Sony hyped it up to be. A 9.0 This is not.
 
  
  In general, the graphics are only average for a next generation game. It looks about as good as 
 Perfect Dark Zero in terms of quality and performance, though the art style is decidedly better. 
 It should be said that this game is hideous on a low definition TV. Sound is ugly. The weapons 
 are boring and have nothing particularly distinctive, squad chatter is circa Call of Duty 1, and 
 surround sound has a nasty tendency to get mixed up.
  
  While most of my time was spent in multiplayer, I can safely say that what time was spent in single 
 player was a disappointment. Simply put, the story is more far-fetched than Gears. There is nothing 
 here that has not been seen before. It's too easy and too boring. The weapons are cool, but the 
 startling lack of any one distinctive weapon bugs me. Look to Halo if you want solid single player.
 
  
  Multiplayer fairs better. The action is fast and furious, and the gameplay very well balanced. 
 That said, I already have encountered cheating on an epic scale, lag on an unbelievable scale, 
 and not nearly enough people use their mikes. This game would be better served on Xbox Live.
  
  Resistance is a solid game on a good system, but the PS3 is still in need of a Killer App. 
 This is not it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2007 1:10 am PT
Review:  The best first person shooter I have ever played, this game has incredible graphics and sounds 
 that makes you feel like you are in your own movie.
  The graphics are the best graphics I've seen, the monsters looks awesome, and the level design 
 is just fantastic.
  
  The graphics are so much better and sharper then lots of first person shooters and the sounds makes 
 a great atmosphere,
  The gameplay is awesome too, you can play with many weapons that you collect during the game. The 
 controller makes the game even more realistic.
  
  You can actually shake the controller and it makes the monster get off of you while it's eating 
 you.
  The game is sometimes surprising with monsters from nowhere so it might be scary but I like it.........
 
  if you're thinking about getting a ps3 you should get this game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitchgray187
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  In all honesty this is the first shooter game I have played since Duke Nukem 3D. So I don't know 
 what many other 1st person shooters are like anymore. But I felt that this game was amazing. It's 
 not too hard or too easy. It has incredible graphics and a great story line. This game is just awesome. 
 It's not perfect but I think it is an amazing shooter game. It's really fun. I never once got frustrated 
 with it. I enjoy playing it everytime. So far the only problems I see with the game is once or 
 twice an enemy froze on me. And the fact that there is no blood. When you shoot an enemy there 
 should be blood splatters and pools of blood. Other than that I love this game and recommend it 
 for any 1st person shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sullivan_
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 23, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  I just got myself a ps3 and this was the first game I thought of getting and I have to say that 
 it was a great buy. Resistance: Fall of Man is an awesome FPS. The graphics very well done, the 
 sound is amazing and the gameplay is very easy to learn.
  
  The game takes place in 1951 in a world without WWII. From the story we learn that the Chimera, 
 a race created by a virus which supposely originated in Russia have pretty much tore apart most 
 of Europe. You take the role of an american soldier trying to defeat the Chimera. There are plenty 
 of awesome weapons and the level designs are stunning. You will find yourself having a lot of fun 
 while on a battlefield. The sounds and visuals make the battle seem very realistic. The enemys 
 are challenging but not too difficult and it is a fairly long game. Take my word for it, if your 
 looking for a good FPS and you have a PS3 than Resistance: Fall of Man is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetombradyhate
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is an amazing game. Anyone who owns a PS3 must get this game. First I'll dissect the 
 five aspects that gamespot asks us to rate then I will talk about some other things.
  
  Gameplay: Gamespot is right when it says it doesn't change or reinvent the FPS genre, but what 
 it does do is match the previous best. Its nothing new but it is still amazing. The only part of 
 gameplay that is different is the fact that it has very interesting and not so standard weapons. 
 The weapons are definitely a strong point in the game. Some examples of the unique weapons are: 
 a gun that can shoot through walls and deploy a shield/wall in front of you, a grenade that shoots 
 little spikes out in every direction, and a gun in which you can tag an enemy and then bullets 
 are attracted to them.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very good. I do not have an HDTV so I am not viewing them in the best 
 quality but they are still great.
  
  Sound: The sound is good. All the guns shooting an grenades are nice. If you play online the standard 
 resistance music may get repetitive.
  
  Value: The game is definitely valuable. There is so much to do. I have put well over 200 hours 
 into the game online by my estimations plus the campaign mode. Speaking of the campaign mode there 
 are 30 levels. The campaign is no short one that you can beta in under 10 hours. On the other hand 
 it is no epic, but I would say I put in over 15 hours to beat the game. Plus with multiple difficulty 
 levels it has replay value.
  
  Tilt: This game is a must own for any PS3 owner simply put.
  
  Story/Plot: The story of Resistance 
 is interesting; it is both a strong and weak part of the game. The general story of Resistance 
 is incredibly interesting. There are many different types of Chimera and there is a good amount 
 of detail on them. The whole general concept is intriguing. But the flaw of the story is when it 
 is actually put into action. You are only introduced to a few human characters and the ones that 
 you are arent developed particularly well. When your done playing this game you dont feel attached 
 to any of the characters and you feel like you barely know any of them beyond basic attributes.
 
  
  Online: The online play is spectacular. Gameplay is enjoyable with varying sizes of games, and 
 varying types. The game has ranked and unranked games, both have their stats tracked but unranked 
 is a customizable less serious mode. When you pick a ranked game you pick between three options: 
 Free For All, Team Death match, and Team Objective. Free For All contains death match and conversion. 
 Most of the time you play death match. Conversion is a game in which you only have 2 lives, and 
 you get points for kills and time stayed alive. Team Death Match is self explanatory. Team Objective 
 consists of Capture the Flag, Meltdown, and Breech. Capture the Flag is self explanatory. Meltdown 
 is a mode where you capture nodes and when you gain more nodes then your enemy your enemies reactor 
 will go down, when it is gone you win. Breech is like Meltdown in the fact that you capture nodes 
 to be used as spawning points but in order to win you must go into the other teams base and shoot 
 their reactor until it is destroyed. Two new modes, team conversion and assault will also be introduced 
 during the next update.
  Another great aspect of the online mode is the great stat tracking. As said before statistics are 
 tracked in both ranked and unranked games. Not only are simple things like kills and deaths are 
 tracked but there are loads of other things like, kills with each gun, stealth kills, target bombers 
 ect. But Resistance does not only track stats it has ribbons and medals for the player to strive 
 for. Ribbons are easily attained, you get them for doings stuff such as: 3 kill spree, 5 kill spree, 
 multiple kills, capture a flag, capture a node, kill a flag carrier ect. The game tracks how many 
 time you get these and most rounds you will get at least one ribbon, in objective mode you may 
 get a great deal of them (5-10 is easily reachable) . Medals are tougher things to achieve which 
 you only get once. Some medals include: 10 kill spree,, 20 kill spree, beat the offline mode, a 
 separate medal for each weapon you get 100 kills with as well as an additional one for getting 
 100 kills with all weapons, 1,000 games played, ect.
  
  AI: The AI on the offline mode is good but also has a flaw. The AI overall is very good in my opinion. 
 The Chimera are sometimes unpredictable. Many times they sneak up to you when your fighting masses 
 of them. The flaw in my opinion is the fact that when you are fighting a chimera long distance 
 they do jump out from behind and back into cover in a very basic and repetitive way.
  
  FINAL THOUGHTS:
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a must own for anyone than owns a PS3 with amazing 
 offline and online play, and is one of the top games released in 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 21, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  The most hyped PS3 launch title was Resistance: Fall of Man. And there's no wonder why it was the 
 most hyped.
  
  Insomniac games creators of Ratchet and Clank decided to do a more mature shooter and that was 
 surly a great idea. What makes Resistance so unique from the other first person shooters is it's 
 weapons. Everyone knows the Ratchet and Clank games are all about the weapons. But, there's alot 
 of very new and just plain out amazing weapons in Resistance. There's the usual shotgun but there 
 is also many more like the Bullseye gun. With the bullseye gun, you can shot a tag on a enemy and 
 shoot any where you want and it will hit the enemy. There's also the auger which shoots through 
 walls and is more powerful coming out the other end of the wall. Resistance has many unique weapons 
 but there's just a couple of them. There's even unique grenades in this game. There's one grenade 
 that that shoots spikes out of it. There's also a grenade that fire explodes from. Some grenade 
 will even have you jumping and ducting to not get hit by them. Therefore, this game has amazing 
 weapons of all kinds.
  
  The story is a very good story. The creatures (the Chimera) show up and start killing everybody 
 in sight. It kills Asia and most of Europe before it learns about the United Kingdom. Your Nathan 
 Hale and you have to fight and shoot alot and try to keep alive. You go into the enemies territory 
 alot to learn more about the Chimera. The story in Resistance is a very well written and suspenseful 
 story.
  
  The missions are mixed up pretty good. In some missions your be fighting your way through the environments 
 with your gun and in other missions your be driving around killing Chimeras. You drive tanks throughout 
 the streets sometimes to kill the Chimeras or you just drive a regular car and kill Chimera. The 
 game also has a good mix of environments to kill Chimera in. In some missions your be in the streets 
 and in other missions your be in landscape and other places in nature. The Chimera are very intelligent 
 and the game has good AI. Your be dying alot while playing this game when you start playing it, 
 it will take awhile to get use to the difficulty. But, it's good that the Chimera are smart. If 
 you keep on shooting a Chimera it will eventually go down. There's many different types of Chimera's. 
 There's your typical type that your always shooting. But, there's also a type that has no gun but 
 if it gets close enogh to you it will jump on you and try to bite your neck off. There's also a 
 spider-type chimera that walks really fast and will jump toward you if they get close enough. Another 
 kind is this very tall Chimera that takes a long time to kill. Then there's this dog type of chimera 
 that will charge toward you. But, there is the usual boss battles which are pretty challenging 
 but they are fun.
  
  Playing Co-op with friends is a blast. You can play through the whole game wuth a friend, similar 
 to halo 2. There's alot of action and fun while playing the game with friends.
  
  The graphics in Resistance are quite impressive. The game has beautiful textures and lighting effects. 
 The lighting effects are very good. For example, in some levels the power is out so your lurking 
 around in the dark and when your outside there's pretty lighting effects too that just look stunning. 
 The Chimera look excellent and look like a real life like alien who wants to kill. You and Nathan 
 Hale looks very life-like like a real human.
  
  The sound in this game is excellent. When you are killing the Chimera the guns sound great. The 
 game has very good voice acting, makes the game feel more like a movie. The Chimera sound excellent 
 when they are coming toward you. And the quiet environment sounds perfect. The music in Resistance 
 is pretty good. It picks up when your in a huge gun battle.
  
  Resistance has great value. You always be coming back waiting to kill more Chimera. You get addicted 
 to killing the Chimera. You would just want to play more levels because the game is just excellent. 
 But, compared to other titles and games this game just feels the same and just another first person 
 shooter. But, the game is still a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McAleece
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  This Was Game I Bought With My PS3. I Set Time Off Of Work. Made My Trip To The Beer Store &amp; 
 Other Game - enhansing Stuff I Will Say The Game Is Rock Sollid, Smoth &amp; The Controlls Are 
 Perfect.
  Their Are Interesting Bosses That Take More Then A Few Point Blank ShotGun Blasts to Finish Off. 
 **Co-Op**, Being A PC -Man This Adds Many Points. Now. That Being Said, The Story Line Although 
 Kind-of Origional Is One Of The Top Ten Worst In My Kind Of Big Game Collection. Watching The StoryLine 
 Cut-Scenes After Playing The Levels With My Friend, Reminded Me Of Pulling Mixed Emotions Written 
 On Paper &amp; Stuck In Someons Hat. Funny. Stuptid. Mad. JawDropping Rediculious. etc. Games Need 
 Many Things To Give Them The Honour Of Holding Anytihng Above An 8.0 And Unfortunatly This Game 
 Does Not Have Enough. Its A Decent Game &amp; One Of The First FPS For The PS3, But If You Half 
 To Groan &amp; Fall Asleep During Play Time. Well .... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tzlofy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  The best first person shooter I have ever played, this game has the most incredible graphics and 
 sounds that make you feel like you are in a movie.
  The graphics are the best graphics I've seen, they made the monsters so real.
  The graphics are 
 so much better and sharper then lots of first person shooters and the sounds make a great atmosphere.
 
  The gameplay is awesome too, you can play with many weapons that you collect during the game. 
 The controller makes the game more realistic.
  You can actually shake the controller and it makes the monster get off of you while it's eating 
 you.
  The game is sometimes surprising with monsters from nowhere so it might be scary but I like it.........
 
  if you're thinking about getting a ps3 you should get this game !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grego714
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  I picked up my PS3 last week finally !! And the BIG decision was .. What game to get first ? Well 
 I saw the G4 video review and decided to get Resistance Fall of Man (RFM) and was not disappointed 
 ! After tweaking the resolution on my LCD screen and thru the PS3... this game looks GREAT in 720p..! 
 I think it has all that we want from FPS games... a bit from Call of Duty, Prey, a bit from Doom, 
 a bit from even Halo.. but what makes this even a greater game is the story combined with the graphics 
 ! When I walked into the Cathedral.... I felt like I was really in an English Church ! I am only 
 through about the first 10 levels or save points... but I can tell you that this game is a well 
 balanced, well paced, and well thought out game. The shooting doesn't leave you burned out as in 
 some other FPS games.
  I never felt frustrated about having to re-start after dying because the checkpoints are well paced..
 
  Go for the Gusto.. as there are health bottles scattered throughout the game.. sometimes the health 
 issue can challenge but for the most part... you regenerate your health quickly... I am looking forward 
 to the ending of this game as I am sure it will be amazing..! This game re-affirms my decision 
 to go with the PS3... the online play is Great too ! (and Free)
  I am playing this game at medium and it so far has been a good level for novice to advanced FPSers..! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poio1982
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:58 am PT
Review:  Ok lets see.... its hard, because this game is very exiting, i personal preffer the 3rd person 
 shooters, but i really like this one, the Ammo is frickin amazing, the graphics are really good, 
 i dont like to much cooperative games so this one is perfect for me. also what i most like of this 
 game was the fights on the outside of the buildings the open battle field area is just amazing 
 a total enviorement of a real war, see your buddies died and things like that make this more real 
 more than geras of war im afraid to say a veredict but i will concluse with the next.
  
  Inside Fights and scenarios: Gears Of War
  Outside Fights and scenarios: Resistance
  
  Weapons: 
 Resistance
  Dificulty: Gears of War
  
  History: Both
  Ending: Both
  
  Enemies: Resistance
  Final Boss: Gears of War (defenetly General RAAM is a Son of a beach)
 
  
  GamePlay: Gears of War
  Tanks, Jeeps, and all the stuff you can ride on: Resistance
  
  Graphics: Hard to say sometimes Resistance other than Gears of War.
  
  Well this is what 
 i think....
  
  ****FINAL VEREDICT****
  
  Buy both of them! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonicstriker
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:00 am PT
Review:  I have never been much of an old school Call of Duty type shooter fan till I played this game it 
 has a lot of Call of Duty game play in it but with futuristic weapons and much crazier online. 
 There are a lot of things missing from this game yet it makes up for them in others. I like that 
 you can enter a match and no two will ever be a like. RFoM has a lot of different types of matches 
 ranging from capture the flag to free for all. I have found that team Deathmatch is the best, with 
 infinite ammo. I played the mall with infinite ammo and it was by far the craziest match I had 
 ever been in, in any online game. I am happy to say this is one of my top favorite games I have 
 played on a next generation console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 27, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  Quite simply, one of the best all around shooters that I have ever played. The graphics are not 
 superb, but are still a great start for the PS3. Game play is where this baby shines.... simply 
 superior gameplay.
  
  The A. I. is some of the absolute BEST that you will see so far this gen. Quite simply, the Chimera 
 make for a very formidable and relentless enemy in this game. The weapon selection and weapon features 
 are superb as well for causing mass destruction. The levels are well designed, and the story is 
 very captivating. The music, when there is any, completely creates an atmosphere of impending doom. 
 Just a brutal, no holds barred, all out WAR game.... period. You know.... the good stuff that all 
 REAL shooter fans CRAVE.
  
  Give me this game over Gears of Graphics, errrr I mean War, any day, lol. Seriously, Gears is a 
 great game, with more beautiful graphics, but Resistance is at the least a great looking game, 
 but with a MUCH longer campaign, FAR superior A. I., better weapon selection and features, and just 
 a better all around story and game in general.
  
  Resistance will end up being a Playstation classic series, and one of the best shooter series of 
 all time. No doubt about it. Simply CANNOT WAIT for Resistance 2. Cannot recommend this one any 
 higher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathan1274
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Well now,
  
  I finally finished this game. Hard to do when you are playing so many games. So now I can give 
 you my honest opinion. Being that this was a launch title, I give it two thumbs up! The game was 
 intense at times yet very exciting. I found the graphics to be quite lovely, the story solid. The 
 Ending, well.... At any rate it was a good solid launch game for the PS3. Not quite Gears of War 
 but definatly on the right track. Here is my break down
  
  Graphics:
  Smooth lovely to look at, the character figures are quite well done and so is the background
 
  
  Sound: Very important to me to be drawn in. RFM does an excellent job at bringing me into the fold
 
  
  Playability: easy to pickup and start buckin'
  
  Value: Yeah I can see myself going through this again, then again maybe not. Its a mood game . 
 You have to be in the mood to play this one
  
  Overall: great presentation, solid gameplay woderful sound, beautiful graphics, im sure it makes 
 X360 fan boys want to throw up. Pick this up if you have not already, If they come with a part 
 2 which I am sure they will, its definately one to reserve. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Symphonycometh
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:05 pm PT
Review:  Not only is this my first PS3 game I acutually played, but its my first time of playing a shooter... and 
 trying to beat it...
  
  Wows all the way:
  
  -Scares guranteed.
  -Evil shootouts guranteed.
  -Lag free-guranteed.
  -Crazy online play-guaranteed.
  -Pretty 
 graphics-even on SDTV- Guranteed.
  
  What's not guranteed.
  
  -An easy time...: (
  -Fair shootouts at times...
  -Love for your fellow comrades or chimeras...
  -Loading times...
 
  -Being headache free.
  -Being scare free...
  -A good story... or at least one that explains and goes into more...
  
  However, the gameplay 
 and music makes up for the story, so its all forgiven here. And this is coming from an RPG fan.
 
  
  If you want a good start for your PS3-this is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luieburger
Rating: 5.3
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:55 am PT
Review:  I was extremely disappointed with Resistance. The game fell behind in a lot of areas. Of course 
 I'm a big fan of the Halo and Half Life games so I am accustomed to a high quality FPS experience. 
 Resistance did not cut it by any means. I got so bored with it I had to leave. The graphics, even 
 though they were on a PS3 were sad. Grainy 3D images are painful to watch. This was on a TV that 
 makes Tekken 5 look fabulous.
  
  The storyline was dull. The only storyline is that there is a war against mutants from Russia. 
 And... surely enough you spend the game fighting mutants... from Russia. And... you keep fighting 
 mutants. From Russia. Hardly any boss action at all. I spent the whole game crouched just sneaking 
 around cars taking out the same aliens over and over. Sometimes they had a machine gun nest, or 
 other tricks. But it was all the same. Sneak around and kill aliens. Even though technically you 
 are in a heated battlefield with lots of soldiers, the best thing to do is still sneak around. 
 I played most of the game in super hard mode and it was still not much of a challenge. The only 
 skill required to play this game is the ability to aim with an analog stick.
  
  This game is not worth it, even from the bargain bin in 2 years. Hopefully the PS3 will make some 
 mentionable games in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maxfoster75
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 19, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  In roughly 25 years of video-gaming I've been hooked on exactly 4 FPS games: Genetic Species (way 
 back on the Amiga) , Half-Life, the original Red Faction, and now, Resistance: Fall of Man. Needless 
 to say, shooters aren't really my thing. For starters, I'm really really bad at playing them. Secondly, 
 all action and no story just doesn't do it for me. While Resistance isn't nearly as big on story 
 as the other three games I mentioned, it does draw you in and give you a substantial sense of grim 
 atmosphere.
  
  Using what can only be described as very high production values, Insomniac has created a frighteningly 
 realistic world in which Europe has been overrun by Chimera. As the hero, it's up to you (and a 
 buddy if you have a second controller) to save the people of the world from a fate worse than death 
 by blasting, bombing, and sniping your way through rubble-strewn streets, gutted subways, and menacing 
 alien architectures. The game is full of a good mix of heart-pumping shootouts, over-the-edge warzone 
 sequences, and even a few hair-raising surprise attacks thrown in for good measure. The environments 
 give you plenty of natural cover, and the efficiency of your opponents means you'll be peeking 
 out from behind it on a regular basis.
  
  Graphically, the world of Nathan Hale is stunning. Granted, when it comes to graphics comparisons, 
 I run a low-end PC that struggles to keep up with my PS2, so I'm not particularly aware of what 
 the new age of game graphics is. Nevertheless, I run Resistance on a 23 SDTV and I can't get over 
 the detail in the imagery, from enemy models to shattering glass to the awesome draw-distance the 
 likes of which I've never seen before. If I had to fault one aspect of the graphics it would be 
 in the animation of the human models. It looks as though Insomniac was able to get the textures 
 up to a phenomenal quality but didn't try to push the movements of the soldiers beyond the same 
 old set of motions we've all seen for years. Gestures look wooden, and this sticks out to me, maybe 
 all the more because everything around these digital warriors looks so convincing. Nevertheless, 
 it barely detracts from the game.
  
  Of course, Resistance offers so much more than its campaign (which, for the record, is even more 
 fun with a friend playing cooperatively!) . I've never been big into online play, but I found within 
 minutes of my first foray into the online world of Resistance, and despite my uncharted levels 
 of FPS suck, that I had almost stopped playing the story mode of the game altogether! The action 
 is fast-paced and the lobby system seems very good to me. I don't know how well it compares to 
 the competition in these aspects, but if I can have so much fun the way it is then I won't offer 
 any complaints at all.
  
  All in all, Resistance: Fall of Man was more than just a must-have launch title.. it's a bona fide 
 great game. If you like FPS I can only imagine you'd love this game, and even if you don't, if 
 you own a PS3 you'd do yourself a disservice to miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sk8erBoy1993
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 19, 2007 9:32 am PT
Review:  This game has alot of wonders in it. The wepon system is ok but the weapons are so good. Online 
 play is amazing. There are alot of diffrent levels to play on and alot of people usually playing. 
 Gameplay is very good. it has an amazing story to it with twists to the story you also can play 
 campaign mode a second time to get extra weapons the reaper ect. The graphics are crisp and clear. 
 The sound is great. You payed $60 for a game that is extraordinary. Its an all around shooter that 
 cant get any better. This is one amazing shooter game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8.7
Date: Mar 18, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Variety of unique and fun weapons. Interesting plot. Solid co-op campaign and online 
 multiplayer. Amazing post-apocalyptic visuals.
  
  THE BAD: Limited special abilities. Campaign is too straight forward and by the book. No co-op 
 online multiplayer off one PS3.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is an addicting first-person shooter that shows the PS3's tremendous potential.
 
  
  GAMEPLAY is exceptional. It is up to American soldier, Nathan Hale, and his unnamed sidekick (when 
 playing co-op) to save the world from the invading alien race known as the Chimera. These extraterrestrial 
 beings attacked without warning devastating most of Europe and Asia. After Hale survives a Chimeran 
 attack, he becomes a hybrid of the two species gaining special abilities like health regeneration.
 
  
  Moving over to the weapons in Resistance, they're a real treat. There are nearly a dozen different 
 human and alien artillery that all have their unique attributes. Hale starts off with a M5A2 which 
 is a standard machine gun with grenade launcher. However, he soon picks up a whole slew of other 
 interesting weapons like the Chierman Auger that can shoot through walls and generate force fields 
 for protection or the Fareye sniper rifle that can slow down time for precise head shots. There 
 are also a variety of hand grenades like the Hedgehog Grenade that can shoot out hundreds of spikes 
 upon impact or the Air-fuel Grenade that emits explosive gas burning everything in range.
  
  The single or co-op campaign is fairly lengthy (about less than 10 hours) with several settings 
 of difficulty each offering rewards after completion. The online multiplayer is also quite developed 
 with many different modes. There are the usual deathmatch and team deathmatch modes as well as 
 capture the flag and base assault modes. Each team plays as humans or Chimeras and switches species 
 at the end of the round. Humans can run for longer periods of time without any penalty and can 
 use a radar while the Chimeras can go into a superpower rage allowing them to see through objects. 
 However, if this rage is left on too long, health will begin to deplete at a frightening rate. 
 What's more, it is easy to join a room and relatively fast to connect. There is a maximum of 40 
 players per game and there is also a neat ranking system. Based of how well a player does, ranking 
 levels increase unlocking new gear. It's a fun addition with an incentive to continue playing to 
 hone skills.
  
  GRAPHICS are excellent. Resistance's visuals are top notch and really puts the player into a war-frenzy 
 atmosphere. The environments are richly detailed and bring on a creepy Resident Evil ambiance. 
 Furthermore, the Chimera designs are interesting all with their own levels of repulsive ugliness.
 
  
  SOUND is outstanding. From the exciting music to the intense sound effects, the audio gets the 
 job done. The shots and explosions really heighten the experience and put the player in the middle 
 of the carnage. Solid voice acting and fantastic alien grunts and moans accompany the rest of the 
 madness.
  
  VALUE is great. Although the single or co-op campaign can be completed in a weekend, there is a 
 lot of replay value in the online multiplayer. The action is fast and gratifying enough to play 
 for hours at a time. There is also some fun to be had playing with friends in offline multiplayer 
 so long as there are enough PS3 controllers to go around.
  
  OVERALL Resistance: Fall of Man is an excellent first-person shooter not without some flaws, but 
 the satisfying co-op campaign and online multiplayer more than make up for any imperfections. Resistance 
 comes highly recommended to anyone looking for a solid shooter on the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashier
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This game was an excellent choice to release with the PS3. Its gameplay is great and a challenge 
 to play on harder difficulties. Controls are easy to get use too. Its a game you can play over 
 and over with your friends. Co-Op is a must for games like these and the multi-player options are 
 excellent. The only thing that would make the game better is being able to bring your friends into 
 the muli-player online with you from one counsil or system linking with muliple systems for multiplayer 
 at home without going online. Hope to see these options added in future games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a1454
Rating: 6.2
Date: Mar 17, 2007 4:22 am PT
Review:  Okay, maybe I sucked, but I wasn't able to even get pass the first 4 check points on easy difficulty. 
 Using two thumb stick to control a first person shooter game is already a torture, facing enemies 
 this fast with only thumb sticks is just rediculous.
  
  If you are a hardcore PC FPS game lover, and you think Halo is hard enough, don't get this game, 
 or you might end up sitting there wondering what's the point.
  
  Besides this problem, this game still has many aspect that I have to agree with gamespot's review, 
 its graphic is very well done specially on color rendition and lighting, its control is fairly 
 intuitive compare to other console based FPS game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper52
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 22, 2007 12:19 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best game for the ps3 so far this game is n fps. It will take you anywhere from 
 8-15 hours online play is the big factor 20 on 20 battles pwns if you have a ps3 get this game 
 single player is great to i find myself go back to single player over and over in online you can 
 play ranked and unranked games witch is really nice i think team death match is the best mode ctf 
 if not that good and the other modes are good but team death match is the best and you can get 
 medals and badges in online by doing things to earn them witch is nice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey17
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 15, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Okay RFOM isnt one of those lowsey launch shooters out there to make some quick cash. RFOM is one 
 of those shooters that every PS3 owner will be playing years from now. Stunning graphics and awesome 
 gameplay make this a must have for every ps3 owner. In my eyes this is the best ps3 game out there 
 right now. The story is strong and every time you think your on the last level there is always 
 another one to keep you going. The multiplayer is one of the strong points of the game, i love 
 playing online, and trying to move up in rank. Overall i think the game is in the same league as 
 Gears of War for the Xbox 360 and having played both i feel that RFOM is the better game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Erg_the_Noid
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 15, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Great control, good gameplay, involving story development.
  
  A lot of people poo-poo'ed this title, probably because it carried the high expectations of an 
 otherwise unsuccessful Sony product launch.
  
  It may not be the serial console-seller like a GTA or MGS title would be, but it is not to be overlooked.
 
  
  Fans of the Ratchet and Clank series will see very thin similarities from creator Insomniac Studios. 
 From the array of weapons (arranged in a cyclic pop-up menu) to the design of later levels, where 
 there are some platforming elements involved. Also, there are skill points for various feats that 
 you can apply to unlockable content (just like in R&amp; C) .
  
  Replayability factor is high, since there is a new set of weapons that are unlocked only after 
 beating the game! Plus, looking for hidden files, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: indycolts112
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  i thought this game was the best game ever made easily. the story is the best ive ever seen it 
 was like a great book were you cant put it down this is honestly the first time i have ever cared 
 about watching the cutscense and paying attention to the story, another thing about this game is 
 i never play one player i ONLY play this game on coop with my friend it makes the game 100X funner 
 especcily when you beat the game i had a blast completing this game its just so fun cause about 
 half way you know techniques and you do things like always (for example when there was eggs for 
 the small fast little spider things i used the zapper on it while my friend stayed back or when 
 there was a tunnel or a new place the person with the least helth always first health went first 
 theres just so many fun things and its a great experience thats hard to explain ... there isnt one 
 single bad thing about this game and hands down deserves awards for everything i just LOVE THIS 
 GAME 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwishiwasrich
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  ok this game it one of my favorites i love first person shooters and this one is great. the wepons 
 add fun to the game because the are different from the ones in use to because i play cod a bit 
 and the wepons in cod are standered where these wepons go thur wall and tag. the online is good 
 its lag free and 40 player. i h8 that they changed it to humans vs humans and chimara . chimara. 
 alos the lvls are short they just cut off and you go to a new map i just want to stay at the same 
 map longer because i want it to load will i get a drink then play for like 30 till it changes lvl. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starcrooze
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a fairly good buy. It has very good elements and best type of online play to date. 
 The single player is simply amazing. The Artificial Intelligence is pretty darn advanced and will 
 actually trick you while you are playing. Such as, when you know that a chimera is behind a car 
 and you run up the left side to kill him/her/it, it will actually quicly circle around your right 
 side to ambush you. Thus, you best watch your back, these AI's are good. Next, the storyline is 
 sort of normal yet still immersive. The storyline isn't something thats completely new or creative 
 that another game of movie had already came up with already, but thats alright because the rest 
 makes up for it. The weapons in this game are, by far, the most creative, attractive, and just 
 simply awsome i have ever seen in a game before. Take the auger for example: The auger is sort 
 of an energy rifle that can shoot through stuff. Such as, you can shoot an energy ball at a wall 
 and it will come out the other side. However when it does this, the energy gets stronger and you 
 will inflict more damage. However the alternate fire fires a shield that will temporarily block 
 all incoming fire from weapons except from the auger as well as grenades (you can go right through 
 the shield) .
  
  Next, the multiplayer is awsome, however it could have been EVEN better had Sony made their network 
 and friends system better. You can choose any server you want which run different maps of serveral 
 different multiplayer type of games - Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Breach, Meltdown ( i think there 
 might be like 1 more i think im missing) . In the end, if for some odd reason you STILL dont own 
 this game, just go do you yourself a favor and buy it because 99% of us are not dissapointed with 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bajabbers
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 12, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This is easily one of my favorite games ever. The story line is very well developed and you get 
 immersed in the game. The graphics are good, especially for a release title game. Online though 
 is where its at with this game. The lobby is pretty well done and easy to navigate through which 
 makes it even more enjoyable. The gameplay, both online and offline is extremely fun. I have had 
 this game since I got my PS3 in early December of 2006, and I am still playing to date, it just 
 doesn't get old. It will be a game that is very popular for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: total_chaos5
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 12, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  a very fun gam great AI you can run but you cant hide they find you no matter were you are which 
 makes this game hard, don't waste your time on normal go straight to har if you beat normal you 
 get nothing beating hard unlocks super human then if you beat that you unlocke all sorts of things 
 online. the only bad thing on this game is glitching everybody knows every glitch and there so 
 easy to get into, the purposely made them its so obvious you get into a glitch and there's all 
 these building and sniping spots like come on thats so unfair to use games that play a fair game. 
 great graphics and they really put the cell to use instead of like you and your guys just shooting 
 in just one big battle there are many battles going on. well this is a great game ond worth the 
 money i recommend you buy this that why i rate this 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: culley1414
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the best PS3 game out there. Great story and gameplay which prevented me from 
 putting down the game. Possibly one of the best games I've ever played. Awesome multiplayer also 
 helps make this game great. The two downfalls were that computer allies weren't very helpful at 
 all and the vehicle portions could have been better. I can't wait for Resistance: 2 which appears 
 to be in the make. Hale is among the video game character elite. The creativeness of the alternate 
 timeline also helped make this game superb. Still, every time I see the Chimera hybrids or whatever, 
 they give me the creeps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stl_rams28
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 10, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Insomniac strays from their popular platforming franchise Ratchet and Clank to bring us a look 
 at a grisly alternate universe with humankind teetering on the brink of extinction. The Good: A 
 great single player campaign that will keep you busy for days on end, AI is surprisingly good, 
 skill points give the game a good replay value, SIXAXIS controller is implemented very well, Online 
 is where the game truly shines with a ranking system that fits you in with other players with the 
 same skill level. The Bad: The only problem here is that the characters aren't deeply developed, 
 which leaves the player wanting a little more out of the characters. The Summary: Even when you 
 finish the game, you'll find yourself striving to achieve top rank online and trying to get all 
 of the medals and ribbons and customizing your soldier for online battle. Online gives this game 
 a stellar replay value and will keep you coming back for more. It's not what you would expect from 
 a launch game, and that's a very good thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedsSox86
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 10, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Do you own a PS3? If so then Hopefully you have Resistance. If not then you should probably stop 
 reading this right now and go pick it up to start playing. This launch title is a brilliant centerpiece 
 for first few months of the Playstation 3's lifespan. With great graphics, stellar sound, and gripping 
 gameplay, Resistance: Fall of Man is an excellent title to help show off what the PS3 can do right 
 out of the box. The levels are expansive, and entertaining as their is a decent amount of destructability 
 to the environment (turn up the volume and shoot at a couple of windows if you want to see and 
 hear a thing of beauty) . Also, if you have a surround sound system hooked up, this title uses surround 
 sound like few other games i have played. As soon as you play through the massive battle in Manchester 
 in surround sound, you will know exactly what i am talking about. As for the gameplay, the difficulty 
 is just right as you can adjust it according to your skill level and there is enough difference 
 in difficulties to keep just about everyone challenged and interested. the controls are fantastic. 
 As a matter of fact my only complaint about the controls is the weapon selection process in the 
 multiplayer modes, but this is an exceptionally small complaint. The variety of weaponsis perhaps 
 the largest and most entertaining you will ever find in a shooter, (blasters that shoot around, 
 or through walls, and a sniper rifle that slows time, anyone?) , and you actually have a reason 
 to use each of the weapons at different intervals multiple times throughout the game. Similarly, 
 the multiplayer is unrivaled in it's scope. I have never encountered a game that allows so many 
 people plays such a visually stunning, and facepaced game with zero lag time. Even after you have 
 finished playing through the story mode two or three times, you will always be in the mood to hop 
 online and play against 39 other guys in some of the grandest, most eyefetching maps ever made. 
 Many have complained that this isn't a groundbreaking game in terms of originality. And To an extent 
 I agree. If you want something new out of a shooter, this is probably not the place to go as it 
 essentially takes the best parts of all shooters and melds them together into to a single game. 
 But I believe this is where the game gets its value. Insomniac doesn't waste time or effort trying 
 to break major ground and develop something paople have never seen before. Instead they use all 
 that they (and millions of others) loved from the shooters we have come to know, and combine them 
 to make a single first person shooter that effectively entertains and helps to show off a system 
 with a clear lack of showcase launch titles. So, if you are looking for a game that looks good, 
 sounds great and feels like the shooters you have loved in the past, Get up and buy Resistance 
 as soon as you can, it is one of the few games out there worth the 60 bucks, and one which will 
 not disappoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjf249
Rating: 8.9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 11:56 am PT
Review:  The launch of Sony's next-generation console was met with demand, hype, and a plethora of criticism, 
 but despite the fact that the PlayStation 3's launch line-up was subpar in many ways -- didn't stop 
 the talented developer's of Insomniac Games to at least come out with a game that may have comforted 
 those who decided to shell out $600 for the new console. Resistance: Fall of Man is easily the 
 best launch game for the PS3 -- taking several gameplay elements, and cliche's of other shooters, 
 while adding it's own unique twists, and weapons. In the end you come up with a solid first-person 
 shooter, that shouldn't be missed by anyone who considers themselves a fan of the genre.
  
  The game's story takes place in an ill-fated alternative world, where World War II never took place, 
 but in the end it was for the worse, as the Chimera -- a species of horrifying creatures who's intelligence 
 and tactics are far superior to humans. It was believed that the Chimera was a Russian biological 
 experiment, until the race captured most of Asia, and Europe sending the world in turmoil, despair, 
 and hopelessness. You are put into the shoes of an American soldier, Nathan Hale -- who you know 
 little about, except the fact that he has a penchant for gunning down Chimeras. Throughout the 
 games spectacular level designs, Hale will fight through some of the most difficult battles in 
 the game, where he'll find himself alone most of the time. Suffice to say, Hale isn't just your 
 typical soldier, as he will encounter and be outnumbered throughout his vicious campaign to stop 
 the onslaught of the Chimera, as it sets its sites on the United Kingdom. The game's presentation, 
 which is mostly still-pictures, and officer with eerie sound that integrates well with the games 
 atmosphere, and occasional cinematics to lure you into the games main story. The woman's voice 
 fits well -- although offers very little insight on Hale's background, nor does it tell many details 
 of the Chimera's background. The mood is set flawlessly as it seems as if it could have occurred 
 near the 1950s, through it's black and white, and the 3D cinematics does a fantastic job of depicting 
 Hale's mood, and restlessness throughout the game, while also showing off the type of character 
 he is. While Insomniac did a fairly decent job on depicting, and setting the tone for the game -- 
 it failed in one aspect by poorly developing Hale's character, as an 'all-guns-no-talk' attitude, 
 and the dialogue with Hale is strictly limited, since he barely speaks throughout the game.
  
  The game's control aren't that much different that what you'd expect from a typical first-person 
 shooter, as you move, and aim with the dual-analog sticks, fire your primary and secondary weapons 
 by pressing L1, or R1. Sony's Sixaxis control offers a unique way to interact with the on screen 
 action, but in the end it's used sparingly, and while it's a good addition, since you'll need to 
 shake off your opponent in close quarters, it doesn't offer anything but a basic addition to the 
 controls. The game auto-saves as you progress through the campaign, where you'll meet Chimera's 
 in battle -- often groups of two or three at some points, and you'll also meet a dozen during some 
 of the game's big battles, where you'll be aided by your fellow comrades. The game's broke up into 
 10 missions, where you'll fight on the streets of Britain, Chimera conversion centers, and mountain 
 like terrain where you'll take the fight to the Chimera. As you progress you'll hear your fellow 
 men and the games presentation add a great deal into making you believe -- that the Chimera are 
 unstoppable army.
  
  Insomniac's biggest achievement had to be the games artificial intelligence, since the Chimera 
 are after all -- nearly unstoppable and capturing most of Asia, and Europe is a strong testament 
 to that statement. As you fight the Chimera in close-quarter combat, and on the streets you'll 
 easily get the impression that they are intelligent, powerful, and emphasize teamwork. They'll 
 find cover, throw grenades, and anything to snuff you out of your hiding zone. Some of the battles 
 most intense firefights will leave you with the sense of caution on entering rooms, and being careful 
 on not rushing your attack to defeat the enemy. To sum it up shortly -- while it's common in modern 
 day first-person shooters to have great artificial intelligence, Resistance delivers a solid job 
 of conveying a superior race that's breathing down your neck, and if you don't take caution in 
 these battles throughout the game -- your as good as dead.
  
  Insomniac was behind the PlayStation 2's spectacular Ratchet and Clank series, and it's no surprised 
 that Ratchet and Clank featured unique weapons -- so does Insomniacs debut on the PlayStation 3. 
 The game offers a variety of weapons -- including energy weapons, such as the bullseye, which is 
 equivalent to the rapid-fire rifle you'll brandish early on in the game. The game also includes 
 your typical automatic, and basic weapons, such as the shotgun, sniper-rifle, rocket launcher, 
 which will play a huge role in being successful against the Chimera. Some of the noteworthy weapons 
 include the the Chimeran based auger which can shoot through walls, in case the next-room has an 
 overwhelming force that would be too much to handle alone. To coincide with Resistance's unique 
 weapons, are land-based vehicles which will be used sparingly, and are rather basic vehicles such 
 as jeep, or a tank to progress through some of the game's tough levels, and will be essential you 
 use to vehicles like when Hale is up against dozens of stalkers. While it's very limited, it's 
 a nice change of pace to the game.
  
  The game's multi-player is very similar to those found on standard first-person games, and doesn't 
 do anything that changes the scope of things, as you'll be able to battle with other gamers in 
 all out 40-player deathmatch, but includes 8-player, and 16-player for a much more organized form 
 of warfare. The games basic modes -- are all here including deathmatch, capture the flag, and a 
 no holds barred 'conversion', 'meltdown', and 'breach'. The variety is solid, and fun if you have 
 a few people to play with. In fact, you can also play on-line cooperative play and go through the 
 game's solid campaign mode. Don't be surprised if you find yourself playing more on-line, as you'll 
 be able to keep track of friends and gain accomplishment of your on-line destruction.
  
  The game's graphics are done very well -- while it doesn't come near the macabre unleashed in Gears 
 of War, it does a very well job of presenting the atmosphere of the game, and setting the tone. 
 The physics are done just fine, although sometimes its a bit too unrealistic. The Chimera look 
 great, and so does their counterparts, as they all move realistic, and with fluidity. The game's 
 explosions are also worth noting, as you'll detonate barrels and set a blaze, and some of the graphical 
 effects like the hedgehog grenades does a great job of depicting danger, as hundreds of tiny-like 
 needles swarm through the air. The game's level design is also a great accomplishment as it showcases 
 the PlayStation 3's graphical abilities by showing a war-torn European landscape. The lightning 
 effects are done well, and overall the attention to detail and the use of the in-game engine incorporates 
 will with the cinematic cutscenes.
  
  Resistance's sound is done just as well as the graphics, but in the end doesn't translate as good 
 as it could have. The game's voice-acting is done well, but on Hale's behalf it falls short due 
 to short, and poor dialogue. The game's other sounds like the explosions are done magnificently 
 well, and the sound of your guns, really give it a powerful jolt to them, as you'll blast away 
 at the Chimera. The grunts of the Chimera give an intimidating appearance, as they snoop around 
 corners and you'll almost certainly hear there arrival. All in all Resistance does a fine job on 
 most of the aspects, but ultimately falls short on the voice-acting.
  
  Resistance Fall of Man, as aforementioned before is undoubtedly the best game thus far the PlayStation 
 3 has out, and whether or not it's justification for you to go and buy Sony's next-generation system 
 is clearly up to you -- but if you consider yourself a first-person fan, you'll undoubtedly agree 
 that Resistance is a finely-tuned game, that is similar to many first-person shooters on the market, 
 but one that offers some of it's own unique twists, weapons, and atmosphere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bloud222
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2007 9:35 am PT
Review:  My wife and I love this game! We are now playing it for our second time, we got it when we got 
 our PS3 in December. The graphics are great and the game play is a lot of fun. People must remember 
 though this is more of a shoot-em up game rather than real tactical first-person combat. But thats 
 the fun! Also love the audio in this game, you can actually hear monster grumbling around a corner 
 when you are in a quite building or room. What to do then? Toss in a grenade! Listen if my wife 
 is into to its got to be great! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ultimate-Playa
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 9, 2007 2:50 am PT
Review:  Once I started up this baby, I was impressed by it's opening. Started the campaign mode immendantly, 
 a cool opening movie about how did the Chimereans took over the world and bs...
  
  Multiplayer's pretty fun with 40 players online but the negative is theres no vehicles to call 
 up on. Campaign is completely worthwhile and very satsifying to finish the campaign. the storyline 
 is incredible too. The graphics are okay, for next-gen. the explosion effects are very minimal 
 and underachieved, of grenades and artillery. Lame too. They coulda had done better and used ALL 
 eight cores instead just two. It is my belief that the PS3 is a sleeping dragon waiting to be awakened, 
 something far better than GeOW graphics and PS3's horsepower will be used to fuel gameplay and 
 storyline of all future generation games. I don't like to write long reviews. like those gamespot 
 guys does so my grammar will be broken and terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derangedmnky420
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 8, 2007 7:12 pm PT
Review:  played it at my friends house, it was alright but way over rated pretty good game, i dont feel 
 like writing a review about it though so im gunna copy and paste this again and again pretty good 
 game, i dont feel like writing a review about it though so im gunna copy and paste this again and 
 again pretty good game, i dont feel like writing a review about it though so im gunna copy and 
 paste this again and again pretty good game, i dont feel like writing a review about it though 
 so im gunna copy and paste this again and again pretty good game, i dont feel like writing a review 
 about it though so im gunna copy and paste this again and again pretty good game, i dont feel like 
 writing a review about it though so im gunna copy and paste this again and again pretty good game, 
 i dont feel like writing a review about it though so im gunna copy and paste this again and again 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udavcak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 8, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man is an amazing game with wonderful graphics. The story so-far is pretty strong 
 with hints of your character being somewhat of a Chimeran creature. The game delivers weapons will 
 immensive power and textures that look amazing. The creatures (Chimera) and the AI are very intellegent 
 on Hard mode and give you a challenge. The maps are somewhat different. Oh my gosh! The multiplayer 
 is absolutely addictive and so much fun. The only bad side of the single player is the lack of 
 enough checkpoints. The gameplay is sweet. The multiplayer lacks a really good ranking system and 
 advantages and disadvantages from being a Chimera versus a human. I think this is another Half-Life 
 or maybe a Doom either way it is something good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game never gets old, you can play for hours on end and always come back wanting more. The 
 first time playing through the story i thought it was getting quite difficult but now im going 
 through on hard and it doesnt seem too bad. The levels are all pretty big and the story is a decent 
 length to which is great. But the best part about this game is the online mode, at first it was 
 all about deathmatches and then it was team deathmatch, now its capture the flag, i tell ya theres 
 so many different ways to play that you just cant get sick of it. one thing id like to see changed 
 is that some people have found glitches and it can make some online games very aggrivating, other 
 then that i cant complain. its really a perfect game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: METALgearJES
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  The PS3's killer app? Yup, it sure is. Resistance: Fall of Man truly delivers an action filled 
 experience. The gameplay is your standard FPS affair. But what sets this FPS from others is the 
 weapon selection. Weapons have always been Insomniac's signature style, Ratchet and Clank anyone? 
 Weapons are very unique and each one has it special fire-mode which makes you say, Dude, that 
 was awesome. Despite this game coming out around the same time as Gears of War and despite the 
 fact that they are both shooters, they should not be compared. Both games offer a great experience 
 but are different nonetheless. Resistance is more of your run-of-the-mill run and gun FPS. The 
 graphics are very good, but not spectacular. For a first generation game though, they are quite 
 amazing. The guns have great detail and the monsters look great. The levels are designed well but 
 nothing like you will see in Gears of War. The sound is great as well. If you have a great surround 
 sound set-up, it will sound great. Unfortunately it does not support Dolby Digital, just THX which 
 can be a bummer for those who do not have Linear PCM capable receivers with HDMI inputs. Resistance 
 features lossless audio (LPCM) which is a big plus for high tech junkies with great with your HD 
 setups. The story is pretty good considering the history of most FPSs. It is just enough to keep 
 you interested. The game is narrated mostly through still shots and in game cut scenes. The game 
 really excels in its multi-player. The game features co-op as well as up to 40 players online. 
 The online matches vary from standard death match to other modes like CTF. What is amazing is that 
 it is 40 players online and there is absolutely no lag. The online experience is pretty standard, 
 nothing jaw-dropping but it executed perfectly.
  
  Overall, this game is great. This is the best game available for the PS3. Resistance really does 
 not do anything amazingly different than other FPSs but nonetheless, it truly delivers a next-gen 
 experience on your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: relentleslegend
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 10, 2007 7:10 pm PT
Review:  when i first played this game i turned it off within the first 20 min. i was dissapointed so bad, 
 but after not playing my ps3 for 2 weeks i decided to just play it again and not waste the 7 bills 
 i paid for it. (including warranty) . after plAYing co-op, i was satisfied and now i play it alot 
 mainly online. i have beat the game 4 times and it never seems to die3 down like sum off the games 
 i own on the 360. this game is cool since whenever u throw and hit some one with a grenade, it 
 explodes. everytime you do something like a stealth kill or targetbomber and many more, you get 
 ribbons and medals. like g. o. w. the game is based on points. for every kill u get u get 10 points. 
 so if u have crappy people on ur team, and u lose , u still level up for ur actions. all in all 
 , this game is a good game compared to the opening games of the 360. ( perfect dark) . i guess it 
 took me some time to get used to resistance since ive always been an xbox person but if you love 
 the ps2 .. ull love the ps3 and resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: electric_90
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  this game is the best game ever. amazing graphics and awesome gameplay and BEST ONLINE EVER!!!!! 
 this game never gets old either. and I am tired of all you stupid 360 fans crying to us cuz u know 
 the PS3 is better. u r so immature to just go on ps3 games and rate them 0 stars and try to make 
 the 360 sound sooooo much better. yes the 360 is a great system but the PS3 is newer and has better 
 graphics and newer technology. and don't comeback with wawawa we got gears of war. well this game 
 right here tied GOW for game of the month so it must be pretty good too huh?? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: games_king
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  In Resistance: Fall of Man, the U. S. and Britain band together in a last-ditch effort to save Europe 
 and Asia from a horrific scourge. In mere decades, the Chimera  a species of unknown origin propagating 
 a virus that converts other life forms into more Chimera  has overrun Russia and all of Europe. 
 Humanitys hope for survival is slim, and the tide of the battle rests on the shoulders of U. S. 
 Army Ranger, Sgt. Nathan Hale.
  
  Players dive into a deep frightening story that rewrites the 20th century and pits the United States 
 and Britain against a horrific species of unknown origin. Encounter a wide variety of fluidly moving 
 characters and creatures that exhibit more sophisticated behaviors and interact with their environments 
 more realistically. Greater processing power on PLAYSTATION 3 and Blu-ray Disc technology enables 
 more immersive visual and sound effects that heighten the chaos of large-scale warfare. A powerful 
 rendering engine allows a greater variety of highly detailed and interactive environments for a 
 console FPS experience, including large battlefields and sprawling military command centers. Engaging 
 single player campaign, a co-operative mode and one of the most complete multiplayer offerings 
 in a console game. Insomniac Games has combined its passion for creating exotic weapons and vehicles 
 with a proprietary physics system to create a unique human and alien arsenal. I Resistance: Fall 
 of Man har Amerikanere og Engelskmenn sl&aring; tt seg sammen i et siste fors&oslash; k p&aring; 
 &aring; redd Europa og Asia fra en grusom straff. I flere ti&aring; r han Chimeraene, en rase av 
 ukjent opprinnelse som har plantet et virus som konverterer andre livsformer til Chimeraer, overkj&oslash; rt 
 Russland og hele Europa. Menneskehetens h&aring; p for &aring; overleve er lite, og krigens utfall 
 hviler p&aring; skuldrene til U. S. Army Ranger, Sgt. Nathan Hale.
  
  Du tar del i en sv&aelig; rt skremmende historie. Karakterer og fiender i spillet beveger seg naturtro, 
 og p&aring; virker omgivelsene p&aring; en meget realistisk m&aring; te. Den overlegne datakraften 
 i PS3 og Blu-ray teknologien s&oslash; rger for en imponerende kvalitet p&aring; lyd og bilde, noe 
 som &oslash; ker spillerens innlevelse. Engasjerende enspiller kampanje, samarbeidsmodus og en av 
 de mest komplette flerspiller l&oslash; sningene i et konsollspill noensinne. Utvikleren Insomniac 
 Games har laget en arsenal av eksotiske v&aring; pen og kj&oslash; ret&oslash; y for &aring; skape 
 den optimale atmosf&aelig; ren. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapstickick12
Rating: 8.8
Date: Mar 7, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man Review
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Every new 
 gaming console has their killer games at launch. The Xbox 360 had Call of Duty 2 and the Wii had 
 The Legend of Zelda: Twilight Princess. Well the killer launch game for the Playstation 3 was hands 
 down Resistance: Fall of Man. Resistance was first announced well over a year ago and ever since 
 the first interview with Insomniac Games the fans been going nuts. Well guess what.... Its finally 
 here but did it make a big impact that Sony wanted?
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man takes place in a alternate reality which World War II never exsisted. Most 
 of the outdoor levels looks almost identical from a Call of Duty game. Resistance's story.... well 
 it really doesnt have a engaging story after all. You play as a character named Nathan Hale and 
 you are basically trying to save the world from these creatures that are called the Chimera. The 
 Chimera was suppose to be a biological weapon for the Russians but somehow they escaped and they 
 are taking over all of Asia and Europe. The U. S. Army was called into action to help the U. K. before 
 the Chimera spread anymore.
  
  Now what makes the single player expierence so memorable is the weapons. Oh man some of the guns 
 you get in Resistance are some of the best detailed and most satisfying results I have ever seen 
 in any type of shooter to date. You start off with a basic assault rifle then you get the Chimeras 
 primary weapon and eventually you get my personal favorite.... The flame thrower. The flame thrower 
 in Resistance is deffidently worth talking about. You have two modes of fire with it. You have 
 the basic flame which everyone is familiar with then you have the flame rounds. If you hold down 
 L1 for a certain amount of time your flame thrower will charge up. Now when you release it a HUGE 
 amount of flames fly across the map. If you get hit with the flame thrower, you have a chance to 
 put it out which is kinda cool. You basically do the stop drop and roll method. haha. But anyways 
 the single player to this game is deffidently worth checking out.
  
  Another very good plus to the single player is the AI. Your teammates and the enemy AI is really 
 top notch. I honestly havent seen a better AI in any game out there. They are smart. They know 
 when to move. They know when to stay behind cover and they know how to flank the opposing team. 
 Even on the lowest difficulty setting the enemy AI is still tough. The only bad thing about the 
 enemy AI is there might be a few of them stuck someplace so then the cut scene after that objective 
 wont trigger. Also, there are a few bugs that need to be worked out but nothing to bad.
  
  The last thing I must mention about the offline component is the Co Op. You can play the whole 
 campaign with a buddy in split screen Co Op which is awesome. But it kinda hurts how there isnt 
 any Co Op online. You also have the standard four player split screen deathmatch options as well.
 
  
  The online of Resistance: Fall of Man is where the game really shines. You can have up to 40 player 
 online matches in either the matchmaking (ranked matches) or the custom games (unranked matches) . 
 Now you must be saying what about if there is 10 people in a room. Dont be afraid. Insomniac Games 
 took that into consideration and each map you can set the size to. There are four sizes to each 
 map so you can set it accordingly. Resistance online plays almost like Halo 2 and Call of Duty 
 online. Your health regenerates after a certain amount of time while not being hit. There is full 
 clan support for up to 40 players on the roster and the in game options are amazing. You have the 
 basic channel which you need to push a button to talk or you can switch to one of the squad channels 
 and have it open mic. I been playing this game online for over two months now and I havent seen 
 any type of lag or framerate problems at all which is remarkable when there is 40 players in a 
 room.
  
  The graphics to Resistance is nothing more than spectacular only if you have a HDTV. Resistance 
 supports up to 720p and everything looks spot on. The lighting effects, the guns, the animations, 
 the scenary, and the people look dead on. Now if you dont have a HDTV there is a lot of drawbacks. 
 The game looks a little choppy from time to time and some buildings look muddy and mushy. Its almost 
 like a step up from the PS2 but a step backwards from the PS3. Its in the middle somewhere.
  
  The sound in the game is relitivley good. The guns sounds like guns for the most part. Nothing 
 to exciting. The voice acting is mildly above average but Nathan Hale is a guy of few words. The 
 suspensful music sometimes gets in the way of whats really going on in the game.
  
  Is Resistance: Fall of Man worth buying? Yes by god it is. If you have a PS3 and havent got this 
 game by now there is deffidently something wrong with you. If you havent got YOUR PS3 yet, this 
 is the first game you better buy for it. Period.
  
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  Gameplay- 
 8.9.... Overall very good. A few bugs in the single player that you will notice.
  
  Sound- 8.2........... Alot of gunfire. Nice explosion sounds...... Flame thrower sounds scary in 
 a good way. Some cheesy voices. Graphics- 8.5...... In HD they are dead on but in standard deffinition 
 there really needs A LOT of work but it still looks nice.
  
  Replay- 9...... The online multiplayer is where it shines but no online Co Op hurts alot.
  
 
  Overall (Not Average) - 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HellsChampion
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 6, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of man! One of the greatest epic shooters out there! A 100% chance there will be 
 a sequel to this amazing first person! Where should I start! Its just an amazing game! Once you 
 take the control in your hands, you will know its a great buy! Okay lets start the review shall 
 we.
  
  Graphics- THe most important factor to the game and to the Ps3! That graphics are simply amazing! 
 You wouldn't think sony could ever pull this off! The monsters look incredible! The war seen looks 
 just as good! The guns have all the details you can possibly want! The blood looks really sick 
 and the freaky monsters that come running out of little tiny holes! Wow don't get me started! This 
 games has the greatest graphics on the Ps3 so far!
  
  Gameplay- A. i is a huge part to game play . Which this game really does have! The A. i is is fantastic! 
 The monsters think so fast that it makes your heart pump! The game design is practically like every 
 shooter with the R1 to shoot and the square to reload. The gameplay also uses the Six axis remote 
 well. Like for instance if a monster grabbs you, you can shake the controller to throw the butt 
 ragg off you. Lmao. 
  
  Sound- What can I say. It sounds like you are near what is actually taking place in the game. Simply 
 amazing! But, they could have added some dramatized music to make it look much more tense. Its 
 still amazing though.
  
  Tilt- this game has alot of things you can go through to make it alot more fun. That game also 
 has 3 different mode of difficulty... then again, which game doesn't. Lol. You can also earn skill 
 points to boost your online identity. Multiplayer death match isn't all that great unless you have 
 4 player ready to knock each others head's off but cooparative multiplayer mode is great! 
  
  Value- This game is a must Buy! You can't have a Ps3 with out it! End of disscussion, thank 
 you for reading the review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EtherTwilight
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  It's 1951 on earth in an alternate reality. Russia has gone silent. In time, all of Europe except 
 for England follows suit. Reports range from strange sights in the sky, to stories of entire cities 
 being razed in mere days.
  
  You take control of Nathan Hale, an American soldier en-route to England to deliver a prototype 
 weapon. Though its contents are secret, and the goings-on of the classifeid war you're about to 
 become instrumental in are unknown, you know that if Russia and Europe have fallen, it certainly 
 can't be good.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man starts with quite a bang. You begin in an Osprey-like aircraft which gets 
 shot down over a city in England, and so begins your long and bloody journey through the hordes 
 of an abominable race known as the Chimera. Once you're on the ground, your commanding officer 
 beckons you to stay on him, and you meet these creatures head on.
  
  The first thing that strikes about the Chimera is that they're ugly. Their standard Infantry unit, 
 known as a Hybrid, is a six-eyed insectoid-humanoid thing with a hosed apparatus on its back, and 
 a rapid-fire pulse-rifle in its hands known as the Bullseye, the primary weapon of Chimeran units.
 
  
  As would be expected, you'll be relying a lot on both human and Chimeran technology for means of 
 war, as well as a couple instances of unknown origin - Despite claims made in the game's intelligence 
 documents that are picked up as you progress through the game, as well as pick up new weapons and 
 engage new enemies.
  
  Though the game takes place in a realistic feeling 1950s setting, as far as the environments and 
 uniforms are concerned, the technology is far from 1950s, and in certain cases exceeds even current 
 technology.
  
  The starting weapon, for example, the M5A2 carbine rifle, is a general all purpose assault rifle 
 with a fifty round magazine and underslung 40mm single-shot, breach loaded grenade launcher. As 
 far as primary weapons in first-person shooters go, it's easily one of the more useful, accurate, 
 powerful when fired at the right spots, and well rounded with its zoom capability coupled with 
 the grenade launcher. You'll also get access to a couple oldies, like frag grenades, a rocket launcher, 
 and a shotgun, to some more interesting incarnations of Insomniac's, such as a Hedgehog grenade 
 that fires a series of spines outward when it detonates, a rifle whose rounds can drill through 
 walls and obstacles, and an ion-cannon that can arc off targets, progressively getting stronger 
 the more it arcs - Thus its name, the Arc Charger.
  
  Though shooters now tend to take a two or three weapon approach and limit what else you can carry, 
 Resistance instead goes the tried and true Doom route. You can carry all of the weapons at once 
 - for sake of curiosity and completion: M5A2 Carbine Rifle, Bullseye, Auger Battle Rifle, L11-2 
 Dragon Flamethrower, L2 LAARK Light Anti-Armor Rocket Launcher, L23 Fareye Sniper Rifle, Rossmore 
 236 Shotgun, Reaper, XR-003 Sapper, Hailstorm, Arc Charger, and Splitter. That's a fairly robust 
 availability of weapons - four of which aren't available on the first playthrough, but are instead 
 unlocked the first time the game is beaten, and accessed on further play-throughs, a neat idea. 
 You can also carry up to five each of the four grenade types in the game, Fragmentation Grenades, 
 Hedgehog, Air-Fuel (basically a canister that releases flammable vapor, then ignites said vapor) , 
 and an interesting Backlash Grenade, which damages only Chimeran units and reflects their energy 
 weapons back at them, which is also unlocked by beating the game.
  
  Though there's a wide variety of weapons to choose from, all of them save a couple have their uses, 
 and will see strong use in your entire repetoire. Ammo for most of the weapons is rather plentiful, 
 as are grenades, so you never feel like you can't mess around with the weapons. However you'll 
 have trouble finding ammo for just a couple of the weapons - Particularly the Hailstorm, which 
 is an albeit rather powerful automatic rifle whose subsonic rounds ricochet off walls until they 
 find soft tissue, its alternate fire shoots the entire clip and dispenses it as an auto-turret. 
 Thankfully, however, the weapons are well-designed and fun to use, even if you'll mostly be using 
 the standard assault rifle and Bullseye for most of the campaign.
  
  As Hale wades through the Chimera, very early on in the game he becomes infected by the Chimera, 
 which heightens his healing abilities. If you read that, it's not a spoiler once you're fifteen 
 minutes into the game. The health in the campaign works in quarters, in that each quarter of your 
 life is its own health bar that can regenerate. You can regenerate each quarter, but not beyond 
 it. In other words, if you lose 10% of your health, you can take cover and wait it out, and your 
 health will come back. If you lose 25% of your health, then that first quarter is gone, and you'll 
 have to find a health pack somewhere in the level, or hope you don't screw up too badly.
  
  Chances are, however, that you might, as much of Resistance's pace is fairly menacing. Though you're 
 outfitted well, the Chimera have sheer numbers on their side, and like to utilize cover. As stated, 
 most of Resistance is popping out from your own cover to take some shots at a Chimera who just 
 jumped out from theirs, only to jump back into your cover to avoid being hit by their shots. There 
 are a number of close quarters situations, including other Chimeran strains that don't rely on 
 weapons, but rather get in your face and claw you tactics, which is well suited and heighten the 
 combat further.
  
  Beyond the typical gun-toting and claw-having units, you'll also have to do battle against some 
 vehicles, as well as what's best described as an organic tank, which are probably some of the more 
 intense combat experiences to be had in Resistance. The primary Chimera tank is known as a Stalker, 
 which is basically one of those spider-tanks that you've probably seen in some sci-fi movie. The 
 organic tank is actually just a huge spider that spits globules of exploding tissue. Gross! And 
 quite damaging.
  
  You'll also get to hop into some vehicles of your own, including a jeep and tank, but these offer 
 less exhilarating experiences than the standard combat in Resistance. While the jeep is outfitted 
 with a machine gun, you'll mostly be doing the driving, relying on your computer controlled ally 
 to do the shooting. Battles where you control a tank become rather boring, as the tank has infinite 
 ammo and plows through even the most powerful Chimeran units and armor with ease - Which will make 
 you wonder how mankind is losing so badly with such power armor at its disposal.
  
  The control scheme for everything in Resistance is extremely fluid to any FPS fan, and is instantly 
 mastered. If, however, something in the controls isn't to your liking, you can remap any of the 
 commands to any of the other buttons - Outside of the D-pad, due to constraints with the sniper 
 rifle's scope controls - allowing for complete customization for individual players, which is far 
 too often ignored in console FPS. Aiming, switching weapons, and all the other commands are highly 
 responsive, although the single player mode offers no use of the Playstation 3's SIXAXIS tilt, 
 though it sees minor, although engaging use, in the online aspect, such as shaking the controller 
 furiously to shake off Bullseye tags, being on fire, or having an air-fuel grenade attached to 
 you.
  
  Up to forty players can compete in official ranked matches which the game's servers match players 
 up against one another based on stats, or in unranked, player created and controlled matches. There 
 are a number of modes available, although for ranked games, you can choose Deathmatch style (Which 
 is by yourself Deathmatch, and Conversion, which you start as human, die, respawn as Chimera, die, 
 then you're out, last man standing wins) Team Deathmatch - which is only that mode, and finally 
 Team Objective, which includes Capture the Flag, Meltdown - A mode where players battle over controlling 
 more nodes than their opponents to cause their reactor to overheat - and Breach, which has nodes 
 like in meltdown that each team can capture, defend, and lose, but also a reactor that has to be 
 assaulted and destroyed to win the match. Controlling more nodes grants benefits to the team controlling 
 them, like weapon spawns around their reactor or auto-turrets. And even with forty players and 
 all that hectic combat, the game suffers from virtually no lag, which is quite an achievement.
 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man, though not reinventing the genre, certainly delivers just about everything 
 you want from a FPS. Great weapons, a solid single player, and a varied yet socially based online 
 experience all come together to make Resistance one of the better first-person shooters this reviewer 
 has played - And trust me, I've played a lot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frank84239
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2007 4:17 pm PT
Review:  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck 
 is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck 
 is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck 
 is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck 
 is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck 
 is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck is so tight
  young buck is tight his new song get buck 
 is so tight 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 5, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  From the moment you hit start to the end of your campaign this game is just plain fun and hectic 
 action with several levels that leave you actually breathing a sigh of relief once you kill your 
 enemy as if you've just won a testing battle. The gameplay is crisp and the default controls are 
 perfect. The weapons are great and creative as you'd expect from the people behind Ratchet &amp; 
 Clank. There's a good variety in every aspect of the game... level layout, weapons, difficulty and 
 the AI can get downright freaky (the first time one of the chimera ducked behind cover and then 
 flanked me from the side or behind made me stop and think did they actually just... na couldn't 
 be. )
  
  Online is great with support for up to 40 players and if you have someone to play throught the 
 campaign in co-op mode with then that's even better. The game also allows for you to make the difficulty 
 what wish... from fairly challenging to Jesus Christ can i get some back up out here! The graphics 
 are stunning... especially for a launch title. It makes me drool at the possibilities for the future. 
 I've played through the campaign several times to unlock even more weapons and done my share of 
 killing online and can't wait for new dowloadable content this month and in May. The story is good 
 but the ending leaves something to be desired. Perhaps simply a set up for a sequel but it's still 
 good enough to get motivated to figure out just what happened to the man protagonist in the story. 
 Bottom line... the best game available on the PS3 to date. Sign me up for part 2. If you haven't 
 played this game you're missing out on one hell of a gaming experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatebugers
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 5, 2007 9:54 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was the game to have for the PS3 at it's launch, and one could say that 
 it was the only worthwhile game to have for it. While that is a debate best left for fanboys in 
 SW, R: FOM is still a great FPS, giving a mixture of familiar and novel ideas to make one hell of 
 a game for the PS3.
  Set in war-torn England in the 1940's, Resistance pits you, a solitary soldier named Nathan Hale 
 against a seemingly never-ending stream of alien soldiers. These aliens, known as the Chimera, 
 work like body snatchers by taking humans and processing them into their own race. Soon, Hale gets 
 infected himself, but is mysteriously immune (at least for a while) to the infection.
  The story is presented in between-level narration by a female soldier that Hale meets along he 
 way. While the story isn't as fleshed out as it should be, and Hale isn't exactly the most fully 
 represented character in video game history, Resistance's story pedals along to keep the game moving 
 and never gets in the way.
  In the game, you start out in some big cities of England, and go through many different environments, 
 both above ground and under. This constant change of scenery keep the pace and tensions high, since 
 you really never know what's coming up next. For the most part, you'll be squaring off against 
 the Hybrids, a human-like form that has incredible AI. If you throw a grenade they dive away from 
 it. They'll take cover, they'll flank, and they'll swarm to overwhelm you, making each gunfight 
 complex and entertaining. On occasion, you'll run into other creatures, like dozens of spider-like 
 jumping scorpion things, or huge giants wielding artillery cannons.
  To deal with the enemies, you have quite an arsenal. Unlike a lot of FPS games, each gun has a 
 very specific use, thanks to the creativity of the Ratchet and Clank devs at Insomniac. To take 
 care of enemies charging at you, you can lay down sapper mines, which are bulbous exploding orbs 
 that detonate by touch. Just run into a room full of guys? Well take out the Hailstorm and use 
 it's secondary fire, shooting out the rest of the clip as an automatic turret. The grenades are 
 just as useful, because while there is the usual frag grenade, there is the hedgehog that shoots 
 out 20 or so spines in every direction, or the air-fuel grenade that sets the immediate area ablaze.
 
  As for multiplayer, you can do offline co-op or online games for up to 40 people. Both are really 
 awesome, considering the co-op gives you more enemies than the single play, making it more of a 
 challenge. But the online is when multiplayer really shines. There are tons of maps, all of which 
 are fun and easy to get accustomed to. Also, besides the standard FPS modes like deathmatch and 
 CTF, there are modes like meltdown, where you have to take control of nodes around the map for 
 enough time to overheat your enemies' base, (similar to Battlefield's conquest mode) .
  All-in-all, Resistance gives a great experience that has plenty of memorable moments that will 
 not disappoint. Even after completing the game's 10+ hour campaign, you are compelled to do it 
 again because not only do you want to complete all the side tasks and find everything secret, new 
 weapons are unlocked the second time arund, giving a huge replay vlue. While it might not have 
 lived up to the unholy hype it received, it's definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 22, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a seriously awesome game. There's absolutely no doubt about that. With 
 amazing visuals, a captivating single-player campaign, and great, intense, shooting action, there's 
 really not much you could possibly ask for. Throughout the game, you will fight the Chimera, who 
 are basically freaky alien creatures that are taking over Europe, and you must stop them. With 
 a wide veriety of guns, weapons, and vehicles, Resistance provides you with just enough to fight 
 off the ferocious Chimera, which, in fact, is always difficult to do. Overall, Resistance has a 
 lengthy, captivating single-player campaign that will keep you playing for hours and hours to come. 
 Gameplay Score: 9 Gameplay in Resistance is extraordinary, and works extremely well. Controls work 
 perfectly. Gameplay is always very exciting, and always keeps you at the edge of your seat. Very 
 well done. Graphics Score: 9 The Graphics are truly superb, and compared to other PS3 games, are 
 the best by far. Great textures, rich color, realistic in almost every way-buildings look great, 
 people look great, and even the Chimera look great! Once again, very well done. Sound Score: 10 
 The Sound is perfect. Great voice acting, amazing sound affects, such as guns firing, and explosions. 
 Couldn't possibly be better. Value Score: 9 Very High Value. The game was very well done, and deserves 
 a huge applause. Worth every single penny of that $60 you spend. Reviewer's Tilt: 9 Overall, Resistance 
 is a highly impressive game by all means, and should not be missed. Excellent gameplay, graphics, 
 and sound add up to be a truly extraordinary game. Get Resistance! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedragon99
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 4, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  One lonely night at home I decided to play this at my African American Friend's House. The first 
 level, and immersive realism cause you to wish you were no longer the succulent fetus inside of 
 a womb, instead you wish to break free and slughter the entire human race with futuristic weapons.
 
  
  Campaign is nowhere near as much fun, excitement, and time consuming excellency as the multiplayer, 
 online mode is. The excitement of 40 poeple kicking the piss out of each other prostates is certainly 
 orgasmic, and delicious for the eyes. This game totally changed my mind of purchasing a second 
 360 and rather exchanged that thought for a PS3 induced one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kronz070
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 3, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  This so far is the only title I own for the PS3, definitely immersive game play. The two player 
 story mode is freak'n great, how many other games have that ... uh, not to many. I'm a huge fan 
 of all the Ratchet &amp; Clank games also, so being developed by the same people, I knew this game 
 would not disapoint. You don't just beat this game and call it quits ... oh no, you get better 
 weapons to pick up the second time round. Not only that but when you complete the game in different 
 diffuculty settings you unlock sweet costumes on-line. I don't know of anyone that has been disapointed 
 by this game in any way. I only have a CRT TV but the graphics are still stunning, I find myself 
 just looking at all the detail that went into the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Sniper99-
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 3, 2007 12:59 pm PT
Review:  This is THE game you need for your brand new shiny PS3! The graphics are crisp and clear, especially 
 if you have a nice HDTV. All of the aliens are well detailed, and show off some of the PS3's graphical 
 horsepower. The gameplay is great. There is variety, sometimes you have to just go Rambo style, 
 other times you have to take cover and try to sneak a few shots in. The driving levels in my opnion 
 were really great. It's nothing revolutionary though. The sound is great, with different Alien 
 screams and your team-mates voice crackling through your radio. The multiplayer is great fun, with 
 up to 40 people and NO LAG!!. Overall, if you have a PS3, you need to get this game, it's just 
 too much fun to pass up:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2007 1:20 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is certainly the best PS3 title to date, offering a first person shooter with extensive 
 and creative weaponry and challenging and unique A. I. that bring it above that one FPS and into 
 the great category.
  Not to mention the Battlefield-inspired online play, that allows users to go up in ranks as they 
 kill more enemies online (Up to 30 in some games) and earn costume rewards for their characters 
 and receive neat little messages from the Resistance staff promoting you.
  Resistance isn't flashy, but it never bogs down, there is no lag online, and the creative weaponry 
 (primarily the Bullseye and the Air-Fuel and Hedgehog Grenades) allow for an ever changing experience. 
 The vast levels add depth to the game, and never allow it to become boring or shallow.
  Overall, this game gets a 9 for its commitment to the tried-and-true but effective methods of the 
 first person shooter, and brings with it a creative new edge and an intriguing storyline that keeps 
 you in the action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxshenron
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 1, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  There are very few launch games that really make you see how good launch games can be. Of course, 
 there are those few exceptions like Super Mario 64 and Halo which were and still are incredible, 
 but its still not too often. When the Xbox 360 launched in 2005, there was really no game that 
 made the console stand out. However, the Playstation 3 does have that one game.
  The game, of course, is Resistance: Fall of Man. Resistance: Fall of Man does everything a first 
 person shooter should do right. The story in the game is top notch and you will want to watch the 
 cutscenes just to follow along with the story. However, that isn't were the game really shines. 
 The true highlight of the game is the gameplay. Resistance is one of the most chaotic first person 
 shooters i have ever seen. There is almost always immense action on screen and the Playstation 
 3 handles it well. One of the great things about the gameplay is the controls and by that i mean 
 that you can basically choose your own controls. Just about any way you want to set up your control 
 configuration you can. The thing about this game that left me the most amazed however, is the A. I. 
 The Chimera are just some of the smartest foes i have faced in any game period. They always seem 
 to know where you are and create new stratagies to kill you constantly. You'll find that they'll 
 very often outsmart you. Another awsome feature about the game are the weapons. Since this game 
 is from Insomniac Games, the people behind Ratchet and Clank, you'll find many similarities to 
 that. All the weapons have a unique feature that makes the game more interseting. For example, 
 the sniper rifle lets you slow down time by pressing L1 ( or whatever button you choose to be your 
 secondary fire button) which is great because it is easy headshots which are essential especially 
 at the end of the game. This brings me to another point. This game gets hard. For the most part, 
 its not too horribly bad that you'll be throwing your control on the ground and cursing out the 
 game, no. But it does get progressively harder. New enemies appear every couple of levels and by 
 the end, the standart Chimera arent even around anymore. Another great thing about this game is 
 the multiplayer. It features up to 40-players online which is a console achievement as far as i 
 know. This too can be a little hard at first but after playing for an hour or two you start to 
 get the hang of it. While the 40 person online matches are fun, it isnt the greatest online multiplayer 
 ever. That slightly hurts the value of the game but not much because the single player itself has 
 replay value to unlock new weapons and skill points. However, even so you'll be a little bored 
 of it after you beat it once. Another not so great part of the game are the graphics. While they 
 aren't bad persay, when compared to a game like Call of Duty 2 which was a launch game for 360, 
 they certainly are not the best either when compared to something like Gears of War. However, they 
 are still very respectable graphics and the game makes up for it with an incredible framerate. 
 Resistance: Fall of Man is just an amazing game that is a must buy for anyone who has a PS3 and 
 is reason enough to go out and buy a PS3. This game will keep you busy for about 15 hours with 
 the single player and several hours more with its fun multiplayer.
  
  PSN ID: Totaldefense0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eLLiptiX
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 28, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  I recently just purchased my PS3 2 days ago. Along with it, I had read that Resistence: Fall of 
 Man was the highest ranked games yet for it, so I chose it to be my first game for my baby. Think 
 back to the time when X-Box first came out, and forever changed the FPS genre with Halo. Definately 
 that system's best game (probably as far as 360's concerned as well) . I'm not saying that this 
 game sets a new standard, but it is definately worth the buy. I wouldn't suggest buying a PS3 solely 
 for this game, but beleive me when I say that PS3 has a huge potential growth in the future. This 
 review wil simply be compared to Halo because to date, Halo is still X-Box's best game (by majority 
 scale, not mine)
  
  Gameplay: This game plays like your typical FPS. Analog sticks to move... triggers to shoot.. What 
 sets it aside from most shooters is that it may be a little more difficult. Even on the easy difficulty, 
 you will still spend most of your time ducking for cover waiting for your health to re-generate... yes 
 re-generate. I know it sounds a lot like Halo, but there arent any energy shields in this gold 
 nugget. Unlike that game, you really can't rush attack as easily. For me that aspect really added 
 because you really have to strategize nearly everything.
  
  Graphics: The beginning of the game doesn't say a whole lot. Visuals can be compared to Call of 
 Duty for the 360. Not to say thats bad, but trust me, as you immerse into the game, the later levels 
 are amazing. Especially the alien environments. I'm not convinced that these graphics are to the 
 fullest of the PS3's true potential. But from what I see, I am extremely excited to see what comes 
 around in the future.
  
  Sound: Sound is a category that always seems to be my lowest score in every game. No matter what 
 the title. The sound is not terrible... in fact its pretty convincing. I'm just a huuuuuge critic 
 when it comes to it. Possibly biased. I really don't have much to say about this. But to the average 
 gaming, the sound is up there amongst all quality titles.
  
  Value: I highly beleive that there will be a TON of good FPS's for the PS3 in the future, but for 
 right now, this is definately the best title. The multiplayer is pretty fun as well. Though not 
 as popular as Halo, it is still very comparible. And in my opinion, it runs at least 3 times smoother. 
 (360)
  
  All in all, I highly recommend this game if you are starting out with this great system. You won't 
 be dissapointed 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AssKick-U-Lator
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is extremely fast paced, so if you need to take your time with every move, this is not 
 the game for you.
  
  Right from the beginning you will find yourself in the middle of action with bullets flying everywhere. 
 Gun in hand, run in and start droppin bodies! there isnt a ton of strategy needed in the game aside 
 from that. just keep your eyes peeled for enemies at all times and never let down your guard.
 
  
  This is a pretty difficult game. even easy mode will be a challenge for a lot of people, but challenge 
 is a good thing in a game like this.
  
  online plays just like campaign mode, except instead of accomplishing tasks, you're pumping lead 
 (and other various substances depending on the gun) into other people online.
  
  controls are simple but things like grenades will take some time to get used to, still, a VERY 
 fun game that should definately be played by all with a PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombiegod1982
Rating: 7.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 1:06 am PT
Review:  HIT
  + Better A. I. than most First Person Shooters
  + Special attention to little details on the field
  + Interesting storyline
  
  MISS
  - 
 Does nothing to set it apart from other FPS games
  - Rather short campain
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  When the Playstation 
 3 launched on November 17, 2006, one of the most anticipated titles to be released exclusively 
 alongside Sony's third console was Insomniac's Resistance: Fall of Man. Resistance: Fall of Man's 
 story is set in an alternate reality... a world where World War II never took place. Instead, an 
 alien race known as the Chimera mysteriously appear and attempt to wipe out the entire human race. 
 You will assume the role of Nathan Hale, an American soldier sent in to reinforce the defenses 
 of the United Kingdom. Hale will quickly realize what he's up against with this new alien threat 
 after his unit becomes infected with the Chimera virus... Resistance plays pretty much like any 
 other first-person shooter out there today. Movement is executed by using the left analog stick 
 while aiming your weapon is performed with the use of the right analog stick. To aim, you need 
 only click in the R3 button (right analog stick) . Primary and secondary fire is mapped to the R1 
 and L1 buttons, respectively. The R2 button will allow you to cycle through your available weaponry. 
 The L2 button will position you into a crouching stance. Throwing grenades can be performed by 
 pressing the Circle button. Up and Down on the directional pad will allow you to choose between 
 available types of grenades. Finally, jumping is executed with the X button. In a unique feature 
 added with the Sixaxis controller, you can shake the controller up and down to break free from 
 an enemy's grasp. Throughout the course of the game, military vehicles will be at your disposal 
 to aid you in bringing down the larger versions of the Chimera. On top of the main campain mode, 
 Fall of Man offers a handful of online multiplayer modes, such as: Deathmatch, Meltdown, Node and 
 Breach... all for up to 40 players. Resistance takes some great features from other first-person 
 shooter titles and mixes them all together for an interesting experience, but nothing that hasn't 
 already been done before... or a few dozen times, for that matter. One of the main things that 
 Resistance has going for it is the enemy A. I. Artificial intelligence in Fall of Man is quite possibly 
 some of the best out of any other first-person shooter out there today. The enemies literally catch 
 on to your actions if you perform the same tactics over and over again, resulting in you actually 
 having to think your way through the game instead of just running and gunning. Visually, Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is extremely impressive. A lot of care goes into almost every single minor detail of 
 the game. Blinking, shadow effects... pupils even dialate accordingly with the lighting. On the 
 battlefield, great attention to detail can be noticed through windows. If a bullet hits a window, 
 the window will splinter up before shattering. The character models also look impressive and rather 
 life-like. Textures look very realistic... from materials that make up a tank... right down to 
 the rocks on the streets. Everything is given fair treatment. In what seems like a very promsing 
 game in terms of actual gameplay, the sound department of Resistance leaves behind something to 
 still be desired. One would think that an exclusive game trying to show the power of the Playstation 
 3 would be able to deliver a little better in the sound quality and level themes. However, don't 
 get the wrong idea. Resistance does sound very good on it's on merit, but again, it's nothing that 
 hasn't already been heard in every other first-person shooter. The sound of stray bullets bouncing 
 around will likely have you running for cover from time to time, which is actually a nice touch.
 
  
  Like your typical FPS, Resistance doesn't boast an extremely long campain mode. The bulk of the 
 game can be completed in 8 - 10 hours easily. It should be noted, however, that multiple playthroughs 
 will earn you some nifty prizes. For instance, beating the game on Hard will give you the Superhuman 
 difficulty mode. Skins can be unlocked by completing the game on Superhuman difficulty. In addition, 
 4 different weapons and 1 new style of grenade can be unlocked by completing the game on any set 
 difficulty. Overall, Resistance offers a lot more unlockables than most FPS games.
  
  While I will openly admit that I am no fan of the Playstation 3, I must say that I enjoyed my sit-down 
 time with this game. The advanced A. I. provided an interesting experience in each stage and the 
 cutscenes, while not particularly lengthy, provide a great deal of detail to what's going on around 
 you and in the overall story. All-in-all, whether you're a fan of the Playstation 3 or not... or 
 whether you think there's no game out there better than Halo... I highly recommend giving this 
 game the benefit of a doubt and try it, if only just for a few minutes. While it may not change 
 your mind, you will walk away from it having played a title that has the potential to possibly 
 set the first-person shooter genre on fire. Hopefully a sequel is lined up to correct the mistakes 
 made by this game and give us a truely perfect experience.
  
  The scorecard results: (via www. enterthezombiegod. com)
  8 (Concept)
  8 (Gameplay)
  9 (Visuals)
 
  7 (Sound)
  7.5 (Value)
  8 (Tilt)
  FINAL SCORE - 7.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: foxtrot89
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 26, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Well, Resistance is Insomniac's first next-gen game and it is amazing!!! It is Insomniac's first 
 game that doesnt include dragons and furry guys (not including Disruptor) and is a darker, more 
 mature game than any other Insomniac game. It has amazing graphics, 720p with very few errors, 
 no real music except for some levels and sound effects that are perfect for the game. Aliens muttering 
 and screaming, guns blazing, barrels explodin, its all good. The campaign spans 30 levels with 
 4 difficulty ratings (one secret) . The story is like this, Sergeant Nathan Hale is sent by the 
 U. S. Army Rangers to assist Britain in their war with an unknown threat. Like any Insomniac game 
 it has insane weaponry (guns that shoot through walls, grenades that explode into sharp needles 
 etc) and skill points. This game is as amazing is everyone said it would be at least in my eyes.
 
  
  By foxtrot89 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Madden_Master44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 26, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of man is a first-person shooter that takes place in the future. You have to fight 
 crazy looking aliens and it is so satisfying to see their blood squirt out on every shot.
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. Once you start playing, you can't put your controller down. It's 
 so fun to shoot these aliens.
  
  The multiplayer gameplay is even better. It's so insane when there are 40 people in one game. It's 
 just like one giant explosion.
  
  The game sounds great as well. The shots sound great when they hit certain objects like the rebel, 
 and brick.
  
  The graphics in this game are good but not great. The aliens look really cool, but their edges 
 are not perfectly smooth.
  
  So, if you're looking for a great shooter to go with that shiney new PS3, I recommend Resistance: 
 Fall of Man over all others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: james97015
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 24, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  One of the best fps that I have ever played. In the league of Black, Halo, Doom. I would highly 
 recommend this to anyone. Fan of fps genre or not this is easily one of the smoothest, graphically 
 intense, and story griping games I have played in a long time. As the breakout game for the ps3, 
 this really hit the nail on the head.
  
  Pros:
  High detail, fully interactive environment
  Fast paced action
  Great Story Board
  Ease of 
 control
  AI was good and challenging
  Online games are great, some of the best I have ever been on
  
  Cons:
  Lost all saved data 
 after beating the game 3 times, had to redo everything
  Biggest Gripe Large explosions are lacking in shock and awe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetelite62
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 9:05 am PT
Review:  Definitely a good game. Much better than any Xbox 360 launch title. However, this pales in comparison 
 to something like Gears of War. Almost seems like a bad port of Half Life 2. If you plan on buying 
 a PS3 just for this, I wouldn't recommend paying 600 dollars to play this, but if you already have 
 a PS3, then this is the game to get. I would like this game a lot more if I hadn't played Gears 
 of War and Half-Life 2 first. A lot of variety of in the multiplayer online, this will keep you 
 busy for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: predator1015
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 22, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Insomniac is well known to be one of sony's best freinds. After they came out with ratchet: deadlocked, 
 they switched their attention to the playstation 3. they decided to have a go at a first person 
 shooter. This shooter is a wonderful game that did an exelent job with sticking to the FPS basics 
 and adding in their own signature styles for the best game of it's kind since Halo 2.
  
  The gameplay in this game consists of two types of levels. One of these types is mostly outdoors 
 and really gives you the sense that your part of a massive war against unsurmountable odds. The 
 other type of level may sometimes remind you of quake or doom. with eerily designed paths and many 
 different types of monsters ready to jump out at you at any second. Both of these types of levels 
 make the game feel fresh and different at every turn. But the stars of the show isn't the levels, 
 It's the weapons. From sniper rifles that can slow down time to guns that can shoot through wall 
 to a rocket launcher that can stop itself in midair and either re-aim itself or split into a whole 
 bunch of mini rockets. These weapons will help to even the odds as you encounter enemies in numbers 
 that even seasoned FPS players will be surprised at. But what really shines out about the gameplay 
 as a whole is the multiplayer. with up to forty players online at once (a console game record) 
 there are many massive battles going on all the time. The maps however are a little too big. even 
 with all forty players you may have to travel a distance to find anybody to kill with the exeption 
 of a map called notingam. You won't see as many weapons in multiplayer and there are a few to many 
 glitches (one of wich is intentional, PM me to find out what it is) but the amount of modes and 
 the fantastic ranking up system makes this multiplayer a must-play
  
  The sound of the game has nothing at all wrong with it. with exelent voice acting and a different 
 sound for every weapon. however it would be nice to have a little more depth in the sound. like 
 being a able to hear gunshots off in the distance rather than having to be close to whoever's shooting 
 to hear most of the shots. but othr that that there is nothing wrong with the sound.
  
  The graphics are the most dissapointing aspect of this game. yes they look next gen and the drawback 
 distance is exelent but with only 720p support (insomniac promised 1080p at the beginning) and 
 the textures not holding up at close distances the graphics could be better. however the amount 
 of detail that was packed into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxx9
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 21, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  Really , this is the game you should have when you buy a PS3
  
  The graphics are perfect , really next-gen graphics
  everything is so clear and beautyfull ... 
 and it's not a boring War game because you fight also with aliens and thats very fun , better then 
 fighting with normal people ... thats my opinion
  
  The gameplay is great , very playable ....
  
  The sound is outstanding ... very good
  
 
  The story is also great and original ...
  
  I play this game every day ... it's so fun ...
  
  Just buy it if you wanna buy a PS3 ....
 
  
  Bye .... see you soon ....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Capthemfoos
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 27, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  This game is well built and had a great story line. Multiplayer is great but who needs 40 player. 
 Thats just plain dumb. Weapons are great, but its not possile for a human to carry all 8 or so 
 weapons on his back. HD graphics make the Chimera look amazing, but the humans look plasticy. Good 
 game, bad delivery. Overall, nothing special, just another FPS to be added to your shelf. Nothing 
 to compare gears of war to, but kudos to insomniac for delivering okay in such a tight situation. 
 PS3 will regret this launch, but Resistance brightened its day and added a glimmer of hope to PS3's 
 horizon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rahzel54
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:45 am PT
Review:  Resistance is one of the best FPS's i've played in a while. the single player campaign is decently 
 long. theres good replay value with skill points and unlackable weapons, and various difficulty 
 settings.
  
  the online is very intese with up to 40 people. theres stat tracking for ranked and unranked games 
 (separate) as well as a friends and clan system. there is virtually no lag, even with 40 people 
 in a server.
  
  the graphics are good, but not the greatest. some of the levels look quite amazing with far draw 
 distances, hectic battles, and not once did i notice any slow downs. all in all, resistance is 
 a great looking first gen game.
  
  there are many weapons and grenades in resistance, and you will find them as you play along through 
 the campaign. each has a secondary trigger and some are very fun to play with. and as i said before, 
 once you beat the campaign, you will unlock other weapons.
  
  overall, resistance is a great game, definitely one of the best launch titles to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  When I bought my Playstation 3, I also picked up Resistance: Fall of Man. The guys who made the 
 Ratchet and Clank series what it is and they are well known for making some incredibly inventive 
 weapons created this game. First person shooters have become something of a stagnant genre, with 
 very few surprises to be had. After some time playing Resistance, I came to realize that this game 
 doesnt revolutionize the genre but it does bring a breath of fresh air along with it. This is 
 especially true considering that it is another world war two-era game, but due to the quirks of 
 the story, it has a unique and very interesting feel to it. Oddly enough for an FPS, even the storyline 
 for this game is fairly interesting. Due to the invasion of an alien force, called the Chimera, 
 into Russia during the 1930s but by the 1950s all of Europe was in dire straits from a full-scale 
 assault by these invaders. You will step into the shoes of Lt. Nathan Hale, a member of the United 
 States Army and your typical mostly quiet hero. When they come to England to assist in the fight 
 against the monstrous Chimera, he is the lone survivor out of his entire platoon. Resistance: Fall 
 of Man follows this brave soldier through a number of areas, traveling across England with the 
 British army trying to assist them in breaking the Chimeras dominance over this land. The story 
 isnt the most engrossing, but it pushes the plot along well enough that I found myself always 
 wondering what crazy thing was going to happen next. Right off the bat, I will admit to the fact 
 that I found the initial control setup somewhat cumbersome and not the easiest to use. Luckily, 
 you can fully customize your controls, letting you put pretty much any control on any of the buttons. 
 There will be little in the way of surprises to be had in what you can actually do: jumping, shooting, 
 tossing grenades, whipping enemies with your weapons, reloading and zooming in to snipe enemies, 
 all are here. The controls are very responsive and this is good as the enemies are fairly hard 
 to kill and taking cover is very important in this game. Charging around and killing the enemies 
 willy-nilly is not going to work for this game. It is very important that you use the scattered 
 objects to hide behind and pick your moments to take out the enemy. Mind you, this is nowhere near 
 as important as it is in Gears of War, but careful use of your weapons and the environment are 
 all key to your survival. This becomes especially true against the enemy Stalkers, giant insect 
 shaped tanks that will cut you down in no time flat. Also, your character regenerates if not hurt 
 for a short time, so avoiding damage becomes even more important to survival, especially since 
 you dont have much health to begin with. One of the most important, and distinguishing, features 
 of Resistance is that of the weaponry. While you will find the usual culprits, such as a rifle, 
 shotgun, sniper rifle, frag grenade and rocket launcher, there is also a nice variety of other 
 weapons to be found and used to unleash havoc on your foes. From a device that lays land mines 
 of a sort, a weapon that can shoot straight through walls and two really cool grenades; the hedgehog, 
 which floats above the air for a moment after it lands, before exploding and hurling razor sharp 
 spikes in all directions or the air fuel grenades, which release a flammable gas into the air where 
 they land before igniting and saturating the area with flames. One of the most interesting things 
 about this game is that the enemies use the unfair weapons as well, such as the aforementioned 
 Augur that shoots straight through walls. You will regularly have this gun turned on you, leaving 
 you nowhere to hide. To top that off, all of the weapons have alternate fires, which makes them 
 even more interesting to use, even the weapons we have seen in hundreds of games by now. For example, 
 the rifle is your basic rapid fire weapon that still maintains good precision, but with a tap on 
 the alternate fire button you can fire a rifle mounted grenade launcher at your enemies or the 
 sniper rifle, which can actually slow time down for a short time so you can line up head shots 
 more efficiently. Its a pretty spectacular variety to some boring weapons. But most impressive 
 is the Bullseye, the Chimeran version of the rifle. This gun is pretty powerful, able to unload 
 a lot of ammunition into an enemy force very fast, but the cost for this is that they are highly 
 inaccurate shots. But when you use the alternate fire to shoot an enemy, you will hit them with 
 a tag from the gun. With this tag, all of your next shots will be homed right in on the tagged 
 target. This will allow you to tag someone, hide behind a wall and shoot around a corner or over 
 the wall to hit the enemy. Its really cool and impressive to watch. Graphically this game is a 
 powerhouse with a huge amount of attention having been paid to fine details. The environments are 
 all incredibly well detailed and most of it is highly destroyable. I dont think it has ever been 
 this much fun to blow up a car or to shoot glass and watch it shatter. All of the characters and 
 enemies are also incredibly well animated although the rag doll physics of dead enemies are somewhat 
 suspect at times. Enemies will fall and stay propped up in the oddest positions. But this will 
 be readily forgiven the first time you try to shoot one of the enemies and accidentally shoot out 
 one of their cooling cables on their back. Watching it whip around, spraying cool air about is 
 pretty awesome. The audio in this game is really very good as well. The chaos of the battlefield 
 is readily apparent when you are listening to your men screaming and yelling while the Chimeran 
 beasts are yelling in their growling tongue and exchanging gunfire while mortar shells blow up 
 around you. Its a bit much to take in at first, but the more it happens, the more you can appreciate 
 it. There are a lot of nice little sound effect touches, such as a really rare one when you are 
 fighting a Stalker, the giant Chimeran tanks. If you hide right on the other side of a wall and 
 it launches a missile at you, the explosion on the other side of the wall will make you temporarily 
 deaf. A ringing sound will be heard and the sounds of the battlefield, gunfire and bombs alike, 
 will be muffled and muted to your hearing. Its an awesome touch for those chaotic scenes. I dont 
 think I can recommend this game enough to anyone who is a fan of chaotic first person shooters. 
 You will not play many first person shooters that feel this fresh and new. Admittedly this game 
 doesnt do anything to really anything to redefine the genre, but it is hard to argue with a game 
 that does what others have done, but perfects it. There arent many games this good and I cant 
 recommend this one enough.
  
  Pros: Fast and frantic gunfights, enemies are smart but not overly so and an interesting storyline 
 that leaves you wonder what crazy thing is going to happen next.
  
  Cons: This game is very challenging at times which can put off some people, many of the weapons 
 are fairly useless except for cool factor and there are only a few enemy types to fight.
  
  Score: 9
  
  Recommendation: This is a must own for any PS3 owners who are looking for a 
 GOOD launch title. If you are even remotely interested in first person shooters, buy this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 19, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Good: Stunning graphics; many unique weapons to use; intense single player campaign; solid story 
 line; 40 players online; headset support for online.
  
  Bad: Very linear single player; barely anyone has headsets online; music isn't present in noticeable 
 areas; plot is a little corny.
  
  
  In Resistance the world has been taken over. Most of it is under control of the Chimera. It is 
 a disease that makes humans into mutated aliens. You play as a soldier fighting against them. Right 
 as the story is uncovered its almost laughable. A disease that turns humans into aliens, its really 
 corny, which is a downfall because the developers miss their goal to make it a gritty game. Right 
 when you start playing you'll notice it feels straight out of Call of Duty. It blatantly rips off 
 numerous great shooters, complete copy off. And that is what makes it so good. It takes the succeeding 
 parts of good games and mixes them together to make a solid shooter, nothing amazing, no technical 
 breakthrough, just solid. As you start you fight legions of Chimera, which is also pretty laughable 
 because its another one of those games where a single man takes down an entire army, this theme 
 is getting quite cliche and annoying. So when your playing, you will fight these gruesome looking 
 creatures, there are many different types of Chimera, but they rarely come out. You'll mainly be 
 fighting the same old breed. But there are some seriously bad ass aliens. There are these spiders 
 that look just like the things from Alien. There are these weird looking Chimera that look like 
 Gollum from Lord of The Rings, there are sinister looking ones with long legs, the list goes on.
 
  
  The guns in the game are awesome. There is this grenade that shoots out spines everywhere, theres 
 a gun called the Hail Storm which launches multiple shells out at extremely fast rate of fire, 
 and the rounds ricochet off the walls. The amount of guns is one of the truly amazing parts of 
 the game.
  
  The graphics are very good. They aren't the type that will blow you away at first glance, but they 
 are great. There are some really amazing highlights and some bland parts, for example, some of 
 the environment looks pretty shoddy, but it makes it all up by having some really amazing parts, 
 like the snow falling from the sky. It looks so realistic that you will literally be amazed. The 
 game has its moments in graphical power: It puts Lost Planet to shame, but at the same time is 
 overshadowed by Gears of War.
  
  The music is alright, but is non-existent in noticeable places. Its rare, and when its there, its 
 pretty good. Overall this game is no comparison to Gears of War, which is where it was going for, 
 it wasn't meant to be an amazing game, its just a solid shooter that doesn't require thinking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 19, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  do u hate lag?
  then this is the multiplayer game for you.
  
  I dont get why people say this game has bad grachics because it sure doesnt, DONT COMPARE IT TO 
 GEARS OF WAR because PS3 has only BEEN OUT FOR FEW MONTHS!!!!!!!!!
  
  so the gameplay can be VERY annoyin and EXTREMELY HARD sometimes even on easy....
  This game 
 has levels that jsut wanna make u crush ur ps3 but the multiplayer makes u forget about everything 
 because it is VERY GOOD.
  i have never seen a better multiplayer experience on a CONSUL then this game.
  PLZ DO NOT COMAPARE 
 TO COMPUTERS GAME.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 19, 2007 2:19 am PT
Review:  Single Player: I was not going to even play this game when it came out. I for one HATE first person 
 shooters. I was constantly told that the story was a great that I should atleast try it. So I did, 
 and I loved it! This game had everything you diid for a good story. Although your character (Nathon 
 Hale) does not say much. The idea of this game is so original and fun that I found myself addicted 
 to playing it for hours at a time. Seeing the cities slowly change from human to alien through 
 out the game was great and gave a feel of what might really happen if we were all but taken over.
 
  The guns were all cool, exspecialy the Bullseye. Although I did not care for that some of the 
 futuristic guns were made by British and Americans as prototypes . I think those few guns would 
 have been better off being like the other futuristic guns and be alien made. All in all I love 
 this game and the story delivered all I was told it would. The only real problem I have is the 
 jumping, but that is not enough to take away from what this game does in positive.
  
  Multi Player: I have never had so much fun playing a game online. It is far better then any shooter 
 I have played. I just hope that Resistance sets the bar for all future PS3 shooters online. There 
 is no lag and no glitching, that alone makes the game enjoyable to play. Also with all the different 
 game plays of Capture the flag, Team Deathmatch and plain Deathmatch.
  
  Good work all around Insomniac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 18, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I started playing this game with the cables that came with my PS3...... which don't support Hi-Def 
 (which I don't understand why they're not included) and Resistance was pretty fun........ but today 
 I got my Hi-Def cables and it made all the difference in the world. Resistance the fall of man 
 is an incredible game that has to be played on Hi-Def to really appreciate it. I'm really impressed 
 with the multiplayer online. Much improved over the PS2's online capabilities. The 20+ player deathmatches 
 are insane!!! I like to customize it though to a max of about 12 players so you can think a little. 
 The single player campaign is really fun. Fast action. Great weapons. TAking me a while to get 
 used to the controller. It's very light and no rumble. Resistance is a must-have game. Get it fools! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sauska_sun
Rating: 9.2
Date: Feb 18, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  If you have a ps3 and u dont have this game then your missing out entirely. Best online game ive 
 ever played and good replay value. If u beat the game you can always go back and play the levels 
 you liked. But if you do beat story mode theres still online there which is still a BLAST. Good 
 guns and different variety makes it a good game to play. Basic modes are just like most of the 
 modes in most online games. Levels are so big that you will probly get lost but you will probly 
 incounter a enimie or a teammate. Secendary fire so that u can fire 2 different attacks from the 
 gun. Different species and different abilitys. Chimara can see through walls and go in rage mode 
 were they move faster and have stronger attacks. Humans can only run but they can look on your 
 map to see were all your temates and enimes are. I would suggest u get this game if you have a 
 ps3 it will be worth your money and a good buy and make sure you get online so you can play 40 
 player online witch is the best part of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjoe
Rating: 5.7
Date: Feb 17, 2007 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Sorta... good. Nothing groundbreaking in gameplay department, in fact the game's mechanic gets 
 old quick... aim, shoot, aim, shoot, run, shoot more! On the other hand, the biggest magnet is 
 its good presentation, however it does not seem to use all PS3's raw power to the fullest. Replay 
 value suffers a little bit, especially in Single player mode. Shooting randomly at your enemies 
 can be very boring at times, but the real fun starts if you play coop with your buds. Bottom line, 
 expect something more spectacular in the near future. Killzone will soon be our best bet, SCEA 
 has done pretty good job nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karanmadan
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 17, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is the best game out of the PS3 so far. But that isn't saying much considering 
 not many games are out to begin with. The sound added so much to the game, i got scared everytime 
 a monster growled or popped out.
  
  Resistance isn't an innovative FPS, but it takes all the good parts of an FPS and combines it, 
 making it one of the best FPS to ever exist. The campaign was relatively easy, but it is a lot 
 more fun when playing co-op.
  
  The multiplayer online is the best since halo 2 online. You can choose between human and Chimera 
 and each have there own abilities. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demoman314
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man lies in the wake of many other disastarous First Person Shooters, the only 
 difference? This one is an amazing adventure with a long campaign and many unlockables, with its 
 own graphics theme and revolutionary change the past setting.
  
  GRAPHICS: Amazing, simply put. They are glitch free with a very live environment and great looking 
 characters. Everytime you see your teamates, you should run up to them and look them in the eye, 
 why? Because when you do they will look right back at you. Every thing looks great! Its not Havok, 
 and its not the Unreal engine. It is the Resistance Engine running a great looking game where the 
 graphics only get progressively better as you advance through the game. The guns, enemies, environment, 
 allies, smoke, explosions, fragmentations, and basically everything looks almost flawless! An amazing 
 graphical feat!
  
  SOUND: Flawless, amazing. Remember Medal of Honor and its amazing sound quality? This game beats 
 that. There is constantly the sounds of war going on around you. It really sends you in for the 
 ride of your life.
  
  VALUE: This game will last for you for a long time if not for forever. The multiplayer is endless 
 and constantly leaves you haing fun, and the single player is around 10-15 hours long with really 
 fun levels that will elave you wanting to play more and more.
  
  GAMEPLAY: What do you want? Shooting, explosions, battle screams, flying bodies, death, mayhem, 
 destruction, lots of weapons, blood, charred bodies, fire, and more and more intense fire fights... well 
 you have all of that with a few cinematics thrown in also. Amazing FPS gameplay that will leave 
 you stunned for days after your first playthrough.
  
  OVERALL: A fantastic game that keeps you guessing from the very beginning. The story is amazing 
 with a surprise ending, and lots of mysterious events taking place throughout the entire game. 
 They already have a RFOM 2 planned and that will not let down either im sure! Buy this one as soon 
 as you get a Playstation 3. Its endless, huge, and fantastic. Thank you for reading this and please 
 buy this game for your own sake and get down to killing off thousands and thousands of the Chimeran 
 Armada! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cloudstrife145
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 17, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game is one of the best first-person shooter games i've ever played. It's very reallistic, 
 and very fun to play. The challenge is greatly high, but my brother and I defeated the game yesterday. 
 GAMEPLAY: Very similar to any other FPS out there, but there are lots of weapons to use in this 
 good game. It's also nice to see a FPS which has aliens as enemies, instead of humans. 9/10
  
  GRAPHICS: Very good graphics. It seems when you play, it's like the cinematics itself. But 
 the cinematics is a tad bit better. Anyway, the graphics are awesome you can see anything clearly. 
 Very colorful, and very metallic.
  10/10
  
  SOUND: Nice. Very clear, very original, and very war-like music. 8/10
  
  VALUE: This game is 
 a great game. But not that much of a good game. I would still recommend you readers to buy this 
 good game. 8/10
  
  TILT: Anyway, gameplay, graphics, sound, and value are all high. So this game is averagely an awesome 
 game. This game is a really cool FPS, I recommend you people to buy it. 9/10
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------
  
  The Good: The Sci-Finess, 
 the good graphics, various weapons, challenging, the strategy needed to kill certain hordes of 
 enemies, the awards when finding a certain amount of intel. Also, the AI of the game is really 
 high! Which makes it really fun and reallistic!
  
  The Bad: Needs more story to it. A very boring main character. Needs more cooler soundtracks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tehpiecemaker
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 16, 2007 1:21 am PT
Review:  This game, being my first and only game for the PS3 right now, did not disappoint. While not the 
 best, it's an awesome FPS game, with action at every turn. Set in a War of the Worlds like scenario, 
 with plenty of guns and grenades at hand, shooting down hordes of chimera never ceases to be fun. 
 While the later stages can be a pain in the butt, with chimera continuously surrounding you every 
 minute, it's the challenge that keeps the game entertaining. The graphics and gameplay are awesome, 
 and overall the game has lived up to the hype. Resistance, is a masterpiece, with features taken 
 from many other classic FPS games, making it a must-have for anyone even remotely interested in 
 the FPS genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy681
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2007 3:41 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is a first person shooter from Insomniac games. Made by the SCEA. It is 
 a great game to have and really inspires you to enjoy first person shooters. This is an original. 
 The storyline lacks a little excitement, but the weapons are top notch. The graphics are crisp 
 and clean even if you dont have an HDTV. Online is also fun and exciting. If you have the PS3 just 
 get this game. Its the best game out on the PS3 by far and its fun for anyone. Its very easy to 
 pick up even if you've never owned a first person shooter and there is no reason why you should 
 not pick it up from your local store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coneman1
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 13, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  I believe this game shows just how well the PS3 kicks it in the Technology department, but I know 
 this is just the tip of the iceberg to what's in store in the future. But back to the Game, Resistance 
 Fall of Man will keep your heart racing from the minute you start the game, The storyline is a 
 great change from the regular futuristic story. I really like how the 1940's and 50's Technology 
 has been changed so we have a look at how it could have been if technology had been say 60 years 
 ahead of time. The Chimera are a really different kind of enemy with the coolest types of weapons, 
 and yes you yourself will be armed with some really awesome firepower too. The storyline is easy 
 to stay with and understand and it's cutaways between the action just give you enough time to rest 
 your fingers a bit before your back into the game again. I'm not going to give away any of the 
 game play action, but I think there maybe a sequel in the future. And I can't wait to play it! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH2FaN12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 13, 2007 4:08 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is great because of its online action. There are many different types of 
 games you can play including deathmatch, conversion, breach, and meltdown. Single player is very 
 challenging (unless you put it on easy) and can be very fun for you and your friends. If you are 
 the owner of a PS3, you cannot pass this amazing game up. It is definately the best launch game 
 for the PS3 and will probably one of the best for years to come. I rated this game a 9.5 for obvious 
 reasons and it should probably get an even higher ranking that. This game should be rated higher 
 than what gs rated it and is worth your $59.99. If you don't have this game or PS3, go out and 
 buy them both because they will give you hours of intense gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: R_vs_B_ownz
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 13, 2007 8:39 am PT
Review:  *Play Resistance: Fall of Man in game video*
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is nothing short of a superb game, not only that it is also a launch title 
 for the most powerful console on the market. Taking place in an alternate reality where WWII never 
 got started because of biological experiements the Russians were conduction. This unleashed a horrid 
 race of super-strong, super-smart, creatures named the Chimera. In a few years they had destroyed 
 the whole of Russia, and then the launched an attack on a wall the Russians had built to keep the 
 Chimera out of neighboring nations. They then overwhelmed the whole of Europe in a few months, 
 except for England. Then they burrowed under the English Channel and destroyed all of Britian in 
 a matter of weeks. That's where you come in, you play a Sergent of the U. S. Army Rangers, Nathan 
 Hale, and you must stop this mennace before they have a chance to strike America.
  
  Lets get to the big department since this is on the PS3, the graphics. This game preforms well 
 on standard definition, but is only a slight improvement. High definition does look much better, 
 but it is nowhere near the somewhat overstated promises made by Sony. The weapons are one thing 
 Insomniac has been known for from the Ratchet and Clank series. There is everything to the standard 
 carbine, to dual wielding pistols called Reapers, that throw a new twist into the tactic by allowing 
 for each weapon to track is own seperate enemy. There is also quite possibly the most inventive 
 gun the genre has seen since the Gravity Gun in Half-Life 2, the Auger, which can shoot through 
 solid objects and gets stronger when it comes out the other side. Not only that, it can also erect 
 a shield which only Auger rounds can fire through.
  
  Multiplayer matches in the game can be very intense with up to 40 players. In a multiplayer match, 
 each team plays as a different race, the humans, and the hybrids. The humans can sprint, and see 
 enemies and allies on the map depending on game type and nodes captured. The hybrids meanwhile 
 can see through solid objects, and can enter a rage mode where they deal more damage with weapons, 
 and fire spouts from their backs. If they stay in rage mode too long, they will start to take damage.
 
  
  Considering that to play this game you need to own a $500 console, it doesn't get too high up there 
 when it comes down to value. Considering exactly what you are getting though, it is well worth 
 it.
  
  Insomniac has also thrown in some of their comedic charm into the game with skill points you earn 
 for doing certain objectives not listed in missions. For example, one of my favorites is, Why are 
 these candles screaming? which is only obtained after setting eight hybrids ablaze in the course 
 of 30 seconds.
  
  There is also a wide variety of enemies in the game. From the increadibly immense, to the more 
 humanoid, to the almost spider-like. They will have you thinking, What next? at almost every moment.
 
  
  All around Resistance: Fall of Man, is a great game, and a must have if you are going to buy Sony's 
 newest console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grognard
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 12, 2007 6:45 am PT
Review:  RFOM is a game all FPS fans have played numerous times before. You take on the role of a silent, 
 brooding soldier against an invasion of alien hordes in an alternate reality WWI-era shooter. Yeah, 
 it doesn't sound very original and it really isn't.
  
  However, the game benefits from a tremendous level of polish (particularly for a launch title) , 
 strong level design, and solid game mechanics. Where the game does offer a degree of originality, 
 and allows players a bit of creativity, is with the unique weapons. While the levels are fairly 
 linear, the wide variety of weapons allows you to approach many levels in slightly different ways.
 
  
  The graphics are quite impressive for a launch game and include all of the bells and whistles one 
 expects from this generation. However, the overall design is far too reminiscent of Half-Life 2 
 and there were many times I felt like I was playing that game instead.
  
  The sound is also done quite well (particularly the ambient effects) and the soundtrack does a 
 good job of contributing to the dramatic atmosphere. The game stumbles a bit in having you really 
 care about the character though and just seems to lack a soul. I don't know if this is because 
 of the narrated story structure which intrinsically takes away the sense you're making a difference 
 (since the story is already told) or if there is something more intangible creating this effect.
 
  
  There is a decent length single player campaign with can be played (with three difficulty settings) 
 and once a level is completed it remains unlocked so you can go back and play it again. The game 
 encourages replaying levels with the use of Skill Points which are handed out for performing specific 
 actions within a particular level. These Skill Points are used to unlock bonus items (artwork, 
 etc.) . There is also a co-op, split-screen campaign mode which is enjoyable but feels a bit like 
 an afterthought as none of the cutscenes include the second character. The online offers are far 
 more robust (but lack offline bots) and can handle a large number of players with minimal lag. 
 This may be due to the fact that I have yet to hear anyone use voicechat though, which would eat 
 up quite a bit more bandwidth. While the online features of the PS3 are far behind those of the 
 360, the solid gameplay mechanics allow for an enjoyable online experience nonetheless and the 
 game tracks and ranks your online persona well.
  
  I strongly recommend this game to any FPS fan as it represents a strong value (both on and offline) 
 and is certainly the best PS3 launch title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jasonfinger
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 11, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I put this game in and was excited because of all the Hype. I started playing and 
 this is what I thought. The beginning level sets a really good pace, I mean there is a chopper 
 flying around, people getting blown up, and you and your group are just charging your butts off. 
 The action was good in the first level but I notice that it kind of drifts away. The story is very 
 good but there is only a few scenes with some hardcore action. Action to me is not just me and 
 my foes fighting till the end of the level. Action to me is CRAP BLOWING UP AROUND, AIR SUPPORT 
 FLYING AROUND, PEOPLE RUNNING, PEOPLE DYEING, MATTER CRUMBLING OR GETTING BLOWN UP, BODY PARTS 
 FLYING AROUND!!! That to me is action. Don't get me wrong, the game is very fun. It reminds me 
 of a cross between Call of Duty and Gears of War (not the gameplay of gears of War but the idea 
 is so very close but not if you get my drift) . Sound is great and multiplayer is fun except if 
 you have like 40 people and its hard to last 5 seconds without dyeing. All in all its a great game. 
 Could have been a whole lot more, but a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dom_boi14
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  The only reason ive played this is because me friend got a ps3 and fall of man heres the thing 
 fall of man has some sweet weapons and some sweet mech thing also that hedgehog granade is pretty 
 sweet to but when you get to the on-line play is just way to much. 20 on 20 is insane because by 
 the time you find a enemy you would of got shoot be another enemy or your 3 dudes on your team 
 took your kill so its just to much. the other thing in the story the first or so level is cool 
 when millions of thos mini spider thing attack looks cool but how the hell are you going to take 
 them all out with a friggen machine gun are you friggen crazy you tell me how, tell me how.
  well other than the bad stuff this game is sweet and it has to be the best title out for the PS3 
 right now so enjoy it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bondps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  Usualy gamers have to wait months apon months before they have a great game come to ther system 
 and steal the show. But PS3 gamers got their great game on launch day. If ther is any game worth 
 the $600 PS3 price tag it is Resistance: Fall of Man. There is not anything negative to say about 
 this game. It's unbelievable that a launch game is this fantastic. The game has it all. A great 
 campaign mode which leaves you wanting to play it over and over again untill you have beatin the 
 game 10 times. Although the campaign leaves you with many questions about the story. Once you have 
 beatin the game you HAVE to try the online play. With 40 player maps and remarkably with no lag, 
 it is a great experience. The maps almost always fill up. The online play will test your skills 
 against people all over the world. With a freind list, downloadable content and clans you are sure 
 to feel right at home. Also Resistance has a great offline multiplayer, your sure to have fun with 
 your freinds beating them down with a Laark. All in all this game is fantastic BUY IT! PLAY IT! 
 BEAT IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VigoSOC
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  IMO, it started out a little slowly, but Resistance really seemed to get better and better to me. 
 I thought the various guns were mixed very well and made for some great strategic choices. I wouldn't 
 have minded having a few choices for mines, but it wasn't something that really hampered gameplay 
 in any way. The graphics were very clean with very little Aliasing -- if at all. Some more reds and 
 other colors would have been nice as the scenery looked at little bland in the color department 
 at times. Still, that isn't to take any excitement away from the generally fast paced action.
 
  
  I liked the way the monsters were mixed and varied at times and I thought the plot in general was 
 very interesting and compelling. I just finished playing this game last night, and I want to play 
 it again as the strategy part lends itself to different choices a second time around.
  
  I thought the sound and particle effects were very well done and reasonably convincing. IMO, if 
 you buy a PS3 and can only afford 1 game to start with, this would not be a bad choice for anyone 
 who even remotely enjoys an FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 10, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Whenever a new console launches there is usually one title that either defines the system or easily 
 becomes the killer app. Resistance is clearly the #1 title for the PS3 at launch. Insomniac, the 
 developers behind the Spyro and Ratchet and Clank series, go back to their roots with Resistance 
 since their first title for the PS1 was a game called Disruptor. While Resistance doesnt change 
 or add anything new to the FPS genre or present CG quality visuals, it is still one of the best 
 FPS games to have been released in the past few years.
  
  Resistance revolves around the invasion by the Chimera, a species of unknown origin that have spread 
 from Russia to the U. K. The Chimera is a force to be reckoned with and can infect humans to replenish 
 their forces. You take the role of Nathan Hale, an American soldier sent to England to combat the 
 Chimera. Hale and his squad are infected by the Chimera shortly after landing in England with Hale 
 being the only survivor. From there the story revolves around the mystery as to why Hale hasnt 
 changed into a Chimera and where the Chimera come from. While most action or FPS games, such as 
 Gears of War, present a slim story Resistance offers a deep story that is presented in an interesting 
 fashion. At the start and end of each level a cinema, told occasionally through black &amp; white 
 still images, cues the player as to the background of the Chimera as well as to the players current 
 location. While these cut scenes are not long they do a good of advancing the story and keeping 
 the player informed.
  
  As with any launch game the graphics are an important factor. When compared to Gears of War Resistance 
 may not look that good, but for a launch game the visuals are quite good and extremely polished. 
 Resistance has excellent art design along with a variety of locales ranging from the war torn streets 
 of Manchester, Chimeran controlled fish canneries and the pits of Chimeran tunnels. The art design 
 of the levels is one of the games strongest points since it keeps the game fresh and interesting. 
 The excellent art design is also carried over to the Chimeran enemies and human soldiers. Both 
 have various details such as swaying backpacks or air hissing out of tubes on their backs. Another 
 strong visual point is the various effects of the weapons. Some weapons shoot fire, emit shields, 
 and electricity. The various effects of the weapons both show off the visuals of the game along 
 with keeping game interesting. In the end Resistance may not be the tour de force of the PS3s 
 graphical power but it does make an impact as a launch title.
  
  If you play Resistance and expect revolutionary gameplay such as physics based combat or a unique 
 covering system then Resistance offers none of that. Instead Resistance is an old fashioned straight 
 forward FPS. Its a standard linear game but every aspect of the game is top notch. The level design 
 is good and overall the game is challenging when playing on the standard medium difficulty setting. 
 The Chimera will take cover as well as follow you to certain areas. When playing Resistance there 
 are times when its best to go full force into an environment, while other times you need to take 
 the area on strategically, taking on each enemy encounter at a time. Occasionally there are some 
 vehicle portions of the game. Expect to control both a tank and a jeep. These vehicle portions 
 are a bit short but are fun and are a break from the intense combat. One thing Resistance does 
 well is presenting showcase moments. There are quite a few moments in the game that are a bit unexpected 
 as well as shocking. Seeing dozens of Chimera crawlers cascading down a city building and homing 
 in on your position is quite cool and a bit of a shock since its an unexpected moment. Resistance 
 also has some really cool showpiece levels that make you feel that youre in a battlefield. The 
 Manchester level is the best example of this since the area is war torn with dilapidated buildings. 
 In this level the Chimera forces are at full force and there are dozens of soldiers on the battlefield. 
 Insomniac manages to continue this trend of showpiece moments and encounters through the games 
 30 level single player campaign which should take most around 8 hours to complete. Resistance doesnt 
 offer anything new in terms of gameplay but it does stand up to and surpass the recent FPS hits 
 of the past few years.
  
  Another key aspect of the game is the weapons. Insomniac is best known for their crazy weapons 
 in the Ratchet and Clank series and they continue that tradition with Resistance. There is a wide 
 variety of weapons ranging from both human and Chimera. All the weapons have either an alternate 
 fire or weapon. For example the Bullseye alt function is firing a homing tag that will return fire 
 to the tagged enemy despite where youre pointing the gun. Another example is the Auger which fires 
 through walls and its alt function is projecting a temporary shield in front of you. All the weapons 
 are interesting and all have unique traits and rates of fire. Not all weapons are unlocked during 
 your first play through so its encouraged that you play again to unlock some of the crazier weapons.
 
  
  As with any FPS game the controls are an important part. If youre playing a breakneck game that 
 requires precision but the controls are poor then that will completely ruin the game. Happily Resistance 
 has excellent controls. Control with the analog sticks is sharp and the speed of movement is perfect. 
 Using the new L2 and R2 buttons for secondary command are fine and the overall control layout is 
 perfect. Resistance also utilizes the Sixaxis control of the PS3 controller. When playing in single 
 player you can shake the controller when an enemy attacks you to shake them off. The Sixaxis is 
 also used in the multiplayer part of the game. When tagged by an enemies weapon shaking the controller 
 with shake the weapons tag off you. The same shaking mechanic is used when youre on fire. While 
 the Sixaxis control is not that deep it is still interesting and doesnt feel tacked on.
  
  Resistance also offers top notch audio. Both the music and voice acting is varied and very professional. 
 There isnt a lot of in game chatter but during the cut scenes the voice acting is on par with 
 other story driven games and certainly surpassed Gears of War. The music is also excellent and 
 really immerses the player into the game.
  
  FPS games are known for the multiplayer modes. In some cases this can either make or break a game. 
 Thankfully Resistance has a good amount of modes both old and new. There are a total of 5 multiplayer 
 modes. They include, deathwatch, team deathmatch, capture the flag, Meltdown, and Breach. Meltdown 
 and Breach both revolve around destroying an enemys base and taking over it. These modes along 
 with the others are interesting and make for fun matches. The various maps for the MP modes are 
 based off levels found in the single plater game. Of course these maps are slightly different and 
 offer key positions if youre into sniping or straight up shooting. Most importantly there is no 
 lag in the game and finding a match is easy. Resistance also offers good stat tracking along with 
 ranking the player based on their performance. By playing ranked matches the player can get various 
 ribbons and medals based off certain achievements such as melee kills, head shots, and multiple 
 kills. This is a good way off offering achievements since PS3 online offers no achievements points. 
 Resistance does include co-op play but its only offline via splitscreen. There is no online co-op 
 which is the only downside to the game.
  
  In the end Resistance may not be a revolutionary game but it does make a major impact as a launch 
 title. Its an old school shooter that will surely engage old school players and new players. If 
 you like a story driven FPS that also has deep multi-player modes then Resistance is the game to 
 own if you have a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 31, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Its no Gears of War but it definitely has gotten my attention. Interesting story, almost no loading 
 screens and non stop excitement. I like the AI and the immersive gameplay that really sucks you 
 in. The weapons make the game both difficult and fun. A great game for the PS3. Very long levels 
 and very few story sequences to bore you, and when there is story its short. The enemy in this 
 game is intriguing and gives me the feeling of Quake 4 mixed with a lil Halo and Call of Duty. 
 All games that I love. I love how they made the characters move and look like they did. Specifically 
 I was impressed at how the mouth movements move to the accent of the character. The attention to 
 detail and lack of any discernable bugs or glitches really impressed me. Great 3d mapping and clipping 
 is non existent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulimanhustler
Rating: 9.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 5:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is very hot. So many weapons and enemys. There are alot of leavels and is a 12 hour game. 
 Gears is a 3 hour game. This has so much action and the story is terrific. The graphics are also 
 very good. Multiplayer allows 40 people. ANd co-op is nice too. The gamehas alot of detail. It 
 is a hard game especally if you pick superhuman took me over 5 days to defeat. The cons are that 
 the game's online is doesn nt have too many options. I reccomend but it is M for mature. It has 
 no cursing only intense blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: internetsdave
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 9, 2007 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is an all-around solid first-person shooter with great sound, a great story, excellent 
 visuals, and more. The team at Insomniac have captured everything that I like about the genre in 
 to one package that delivers exactly what I expect from all games: fun. For far too long the industry's 
 been shipping out innovative tripe like Gears of War that is highly praised because if impressive 
 visuals and some gimmicky aspect that gets old 10 minutes in to the game, but lacks anything that 
 even remotely resembles fun. Resistance bucks that trend by going back to the FPS roots and making 
 a single-player game that's fun to play not just once, but multiple times and multiplayer that's 
 actually worth getting online for.
  
  In Resistance: Fall of Man you play Sgt. Nathan Hale, sole survivor of an American landing in Britain 
 attempting to repel the horrible hordes of the Chimera. The Chimera are an alien threat that originated 
 from somewhere in Russia (with a nod and a wink towards Tunguska) and has spread devastation and 
 chaos throughout Russia and Europe. The game takes place in the 1950's on an alternate history 
 Earth where WWII never happened. The technology of the age is roughly what was seen in the late 
 40's, but with something of a sci-fi influence thanks to the Chimera. See, the Chimera infect human 
 bodies which then mutate in to the bad guys you fight. They don't tell you much more than that, 
 perhaps paving the way for sequels...
  
  The gameplay in resistance is pretty standard for FPSes, you can run, crouch, jump, shoot, and 
 smack foes with a melee attack, so if you've played one FPS, you'll pick up on this really quickly. 
 The game does, however, take advantage of the power of the PS3 and puts a lot of action on the 
 screen. There was one level where it was me and about 10 or so AI allies rushing down a hill and 
 attacking a large number of Chimeran forces with no hardware-related slowdown. In addition to this, 
 the maps are large, with diverse terrain and optional paths that can lead to handy rewards. You 
 never need to duck to get around the terrain, but ducking does come in handy if you wish to avoid 
 enemy fire. And speaking of, the AI in this game is quite smart. They'll stick together, move to 
 cover, and fire from advantageous positions. They'll even throw grenades if they're having hitting 
 you behind cover. However, cover doesn't always stay as cover. In some cases, it's destroyable, 
 but the enemy and their advanced technology allows them to field a weapon that actually penetrates 
 cover. Fortunately, you get an indication that you're just about to get blasted wich allows you 
 to move. Unfortunately, often times the enemy will try to herd you out from behind said cover where 
 you're easier to hit. However, this weapon does make multiplayer a whole lot more interesting.
 
  
  Multiplayer in Resistance: Fall of Man comes in two forms. In one form, you can buddy up with an 
 amigo to plow through the single player, which kind of makes the whole sole survivor thing a bit 
 silly, but the story doesn't seem to care and I don't think you will either. In the other form, 
 you can play online in free-for-all or team-based games using all of the weapons from the single-player 
 campaign. Getting online is both easy and fast, allowing you to join up with your friends, manage 
 a clan, or just hop on to the first available server. The multiplayer modes bring nothing new to 
 the table, but are solidly executed deathmatch and take-and-hold formulas.
  
  All in all, it's a well execute FPS that serves as a graphical and audio introduction to the system. 
 With more games like this, the PS3 will stand a chance against the competition.
  
  Dave's Arbitrary Rating: Die Hard and a bag of chips out of Die Hard - It's nothing new, but it's 
 a solid working of the forumla. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:15 am PT
Review:  At first when i played this game, i dident have any fun. then, I went online and had BUCKETS of 
 fun! (yes, i kno, i said BUCKETS) . But now, after playing for awhile, im just bored. The story is 
 horrible, at the start anway, gets much better later on and dont kno how i could stand playign 
 the begginging of it. The online is amazing, 40 PEOPLE and lots of things to do and wont get repetative 
 for awhile. This game is amazing and i think that it saved the PlayStation 3's HORRIBLE launch. 
 This is a great game and shwos that playstation 3 has the power to make great games even at the 
 start or its life. If it werent for this game, i wouldent be playing FPS, this is the first one 
 i liked ^.^.
  
  I rate the cover a 8/10, its a nice cover but not much going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingalphagold
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:26 pm PT
Review:  The game is about aliens invading Earth during the 1940s-1950s. This is the alternative time line 
 where WWII never happened, but something else did. The Chimera are the aliens which invade Earth. 
 They have taken Asia and most of Europe. Now they invading Britain. You play as Nathan Hale, an 
 American who was sent to aid the Brits. The game takes you through all over England. The gameplay 
 is awesome. You will be put against dozen of enemies, so much that you'll lose count. But luckily 
 there are powerful weapons at your disposal. Each has it's own special function. The graphics of 
 the game is well done, but it's not the best looking shooter out there. The sound is also excellent, 
 but again, not the best. Also, after you finished the campaign, there's the great multiplayer. 
 The multi-player is really fun, with no problems such as frame-rate at all. The only down side 
 is that there is barely anyone with headsets because they are expensive, especially the Blue-Tooth 
 ones. Resistance is an all in all Outstanding game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikesass117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man (Resistance for short) is a great all out action FPS based in England 1951. 
 You are Nathan Hale an American soldier sent over to Europe to clean up the mess. You get infected 
 by these bugs and gain the Kamairan (or however you spell it) power of health regeneration. Any 
 way to the actual game itself, Resistance is a past based shooter that has the gameplay combonation 
 of the best FPS' on the market. The games framerate is amazing and you never get any lag. The use 
 of the SIXAXIS controller is pretty neat also. You need to shake it when an alien grabs your neck 
 and you are released from their grasp if you shake 'em off. In Resistance, you get some awesome 
 weapons and really uber grenades like the Hedghog Grenade. This grenade is composed of needles 
 and when it blows up, it launches the needles everywhere and your enemies are killed (take that 
 Gears) . To sum it all up, Resistance: Fall Of Man is a must buy for anyone who doesn't have it 
 if they have a PS3 but if you don't, it is worth the time saving up $500-$600 for a PS3 and this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: immemyself2
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 7, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Upside:
  At times breathtaking especially in HD mode. The sound had me looking behind me a few times, they 
 did a great job on atmosphere. The story telling was very good which I wasn't expecting. Downside: 
 I felt like I was walking down one tunnel all the way to the end. Even though the graphics and 
 sound were wonderful, it got to be a little boring at times. It probably doesn't help that I played 
 Gears of War for the first time the same day which deserves a very high score. I couldn't rate 
 Fall of Man below an 8 but I couldn't rate it above an 8 either. I would have hoped for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord_DoDo56
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Upon buying my PS3 I looked around on the web for a good game to buy and that would have a great 
 online play. While searching I saw this game and knew it would be a great game for my PS3. The 
 game is great, I mean it really is great. The story is pretty interesting and held me over for 
 about 4 different levels of difficulty. Yes, I have played Resistence on Easy, medium, Hard, and 
 Superhuman. Although I am not the uber-pwnerer of console games I could still hold my own when 
 in Superhuman. Replay value isn't that great but heck what game doesn't have ok replay value. Overall 
 it's an awesome game and the online play makes up fr the replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leimaster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Feb 7, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is definitely worth playing and buying. If you have a ps3, it is one of the only four 
 launch games worth buying. The other 3 are madden, ridge racer, and Call of Duty 3. In this game, 
 the game play is great, there are almost no glitches. The only reason i'm saying almost is because 
 there might be a glitch but i haven't found one. The game has 3 difficulty settings. If you suck 
 at games and have never played an FPS, then easy will be a tiny bit challenging. But if you aren't 
 FPS-handicapped, the game has other difficulties to challenge you. If you beat hard, you get the 
 superhuman difficulty. This adds to the replay value. This game has extremely high replay value. 
 If you beat the game, you can unlock extra weapons for your second playthrough. There are also 
 extra objectives you can do called skill points. Doing something skillful like killing a certain 
 amount of people with one grenade gives you a skill point. You can use these skill points to unlock 
 skins for online play. The graphics for this game are incredible. Its what you can expect from 
 a 600 dollar system. The only downside to the gameplay is that sometimes, there are boring indoor 
 levels that, for some reason, make you not feel like playing the game. The game is pretty linear, 
 but only during these bad levels. Most of the time you don't even notice. The sound is also great. 
 Each weapon has great sound effects. They suit the weapon very well: the carbine (machine gun) has 
 a loud expected machine gun sound while the bullseye (the alien machine gun) has a low laser-ish 
 sound. To add to the realistic-ism, when the auger (heavy gun whose bullets can go through walls) 
 shoots through walls, the sound changes as the shot goes through. The enemies also have the expected 
 grunts and yells and during the cutscenes, the voice acting isn't bad and gets you interested in 
 the plot. The online play is probably the best FPS online game there is. You have ranks, can make 
 clans, chat, and get together with friends. However, there is no online co-op. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rstankos
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 16, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Being a Metal Gear Solid, and Unreal Tournament guy, the control system was tough to master. Very 
 similar to Black. Not unmanageable, just very different. The graphics and sound are top notch. 
 And I don't even have an HDTV yet. Just hooked to my TV. Get it! Wish the online mode had more 
 choices to pick your individual games and groups (like UT2K4.) Hopefully, they'll make some patches 
 available in the near future. The intro sets up the game nicely, and gets you into it. Wonder what 
 kind of hard drive hit it would cost to get a level editor? ( Come on guys, I've said everything 
 and why you want me to write more stuff to come up with a hundred words is baloney. )
  
  PS (4/16/08) - Had to mark this down, because in the last year, some really great games have come 
 my way. Still, I'm a big fan of FPS. So check out Drakes Fortune, and Warhawk. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sithlordJ
Rating: 8.2
Date: Feb 6, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  If you are one of those special few who did get a PS3, chances are you already own this game. I 
 am talking about Resistance: Fall of Man.
  
  The premise of the game is an interesting one: instead of WWII, humanity suffered the attack of 
 the Chimera. The Chimera are a race of monsters that came from Russia. They&acute; ve got high-tech 
 weapons, they are more powerful than humans, they can infect humans to increase their numbers, 
 and they are kicking humanity&acute; s ass. Enter Nathan Hale, an American soldier sent to Britain 
 to help them against the Chimeras. He&acute; s a normal human, except when he becomes infected by 
 the Chimeras, instead of turning one of them gets their powers including regeneration.
  
  You&acute; ll be dissapointed, however that the story is not well developed. Nathan Hale speaks 
 a line or two in the whole. Most of the backstory will come from documents . These collectibles 
 range from war diaries to diagrams, and are truly nice.
  
  But this doesn&acute; t really matter, as the plot in an FPS is like the plot in a porn movie: it 
 serves as an excuse to explain what you&acute; re really wanting. The main reason in Resistance 
 would be to present the Chimera. These come in over ten forms, albeit some very similar to others, 
 with different abilities and conducts. The basic one is the hybrid, which is the equivalent of 
 a human soldier in your average WWII shooter. You&acute; ll find these all through the game. But 
 there are also beings such as creepy alien-esque spiders and a stretched, huge and unarmed hybrid.
 
  
  All these types of enemies yield for different ways to kill them, which in turn yields for different 
 kinds of weapons. Now pay attention, because this is where Resistance stands out the most.
  
  Insomniac seemed to put a lot of work in your arsenal. Almost every weapon has two effects, 
 the second activated with L1 (you shoot with R1) . You want to stop a missile in mid-air? You can 
 do that. You wish to tag an enemy so all your bullets hit him? You can do that, too. There even 
 is a weapon that goes past walls and other non-organic objects.
  
  Another unique thing is your life. It is divided in 4 quadrants, and it will heal but only to fill 
 the current quadrant. So if you have 62%, it will heal up to 75%.
  
  The control scheme is satisfactory, too. Resistance plays it safe and basicly rips off the normal 
 FPS control you have been using for years. I doubt I even need to detail it, so I won&acute; t. 
 All you need to know is that you will wage war in Britain as you have done in, say, outer space.
 
  
  And it will be a cool war, you know? You will go across ruined cities, a coversion factory (where 
 they transform humans into Chimeras) sewers, tunnels, the open field, and a Chimera tower before 
 you get to London, where you fight an awesome battle. All these places, particularly the cities 
 look spectacular and have a more than passable design. The graphics overall look great, too, though 
 there are some muddy parts here and there.
  
  Yet where Resistance truly shines is not in the campaign, single or cooperative (which, sadly, 
 does not feature online play) , but in the online multiplayer.
  
  This mode has many modes, such as the obligatory deathmatch or the original conversion, and supports 
 up to 40 players, and a very effective ranked and achievements system. Not only that, but in unranked 
 mode you can make a lot of stuff, like, for example, infinite ammo.
  
  You don&acute; t know madness until you have played a 40 people match with all the weapons from 
 the start at 200% power and infinite ammo. BANG!
  
  Another Resistance-only feature is the ability to play as either a human or Chimera.
  
  The 
 Chimera start with the Bullseye, which is less accurate than the human rifle but can tag the enemies 
 as I have mentioned before. They are big and bulky so they are easier targets. But more importantly, 
 the Chimeras can enter Rage Mode, which works as thermical goggles. This allows them to see enemies 
 through walls, but also makes them stronger and faster. Yet, if they stay in this mode, they can&acute; t 
 heal and will start to lose health after a while. The humans start with the trusty rifle. There 
 natural abilities include ducking, and being able to enter a pseudomode to run faster at the cost 
 of accuracy, which they can activate or deactivate at every time. What really makes human special, 
 however, is that you can customize your human -- and the higher your rank, the more you can customize 
 them.
  
  They are pretty balanced, though I prefer humans. What really gives a race an edge is the map on 
 which you are playing. Rage mode is specially useful in dim or forested areas.
  
  In the end, Resistance will not pass on to history (thanks in no small part to Gears of War) , but 
 it will not be forgotten by who plays it, either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: David_I
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 6, 2007 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Compared with all the shooters I'd played is for much the best, perhaps I haven't play much at 
 all, but it has a good balance, it is not only a nice graphics game, you can tell that it is not 
 a game rushed to be delivered at the launch date. Many different challenges to overcome including 
 the ability of other owners around the world.
  
  I personally enjoy it the most online because you have many options to choose. From an instant 
 action all against all to a customized scenario created by anyone. The team games are also pretty 
 fun, you can feel the support of others in order to achieve the goal of the challenge.
  
  As far as I have played it in campaign mode, there is a part that reminded me the frontal combat 
 in call of duty, pretty fun and tough.
  
  The only 2 things that I did not like about it is that the corpses follow always the same pattern, 
 the tend to look and be found alike (some of them even have the same tattoos) , and some of the 
 things that you can interact with have no logic, for example you can break a bottle and only the 
 middle part will fall, but no game is perfect. In a way this game means a lot for being my first 
 experience with the long awaited ps3. I know by experience that the first games do not exploit 
 the full capacity of the console and if this is the case, I can not imagine what will be coming 
 a year from now.
  
  If you are thinking if it's worth the 60 bucks you bet it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer12222
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 7, 2007 11:45 am PT
Review:  10/10 Graphics: HD Graphics bring the game to life and add realism.
  
  10/10: Gameplay: Nice 40 player multiplayer and Realism yet again.
  
  Everything else is just 
 AWESOME YOU need to go out buy yourself a PS3 i got one and i wasn't complaning about the price 
 because the online is free.
  this game is so awesome i hope they make Resistance: Fall Of Man 2 soon i can't wait. With all the 
 guns and vehicles you can use this game should be game of the year. Best PS3 game out there i order 
 you now to go out and buy this game.
  
  The Good: Everything The Bad: Nothing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MikeinSC2
Rating: 8.3
Date: Feb 5, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is the newest offering from Insomniac games, the company behind the stellar 
 Ratchet and Clank titles. And while this game is a good FPS, it is not close to being the company's 
 best offering. True, it is the only game even worth owning on the PS3 at this point, but when you 
 look at the competition, that is faint praise indeed.
  
  Graphically, the game is bipolar at best. The outdoor environments look quite good. The first few 
 levels give you an impressive level of chaos, anarchy, and well-done visuals. Not as well done 
 as other titles out there, mind you, but well-done visuals nonetheless. Then you get stuck in tunnel 
 hell for a large chunk of time and the game's visuals in this portion of the game do not look dramatically 
 dissimilar from a well-done PS2 game, but clearly not something you'd expect from the powerhouse 
 next-gen system playing it. Extremely linear pathways in dark corridors with blase backgrounds 
 is not quite the end-all, be-all of great gaming many people feel it is.
  
  The enemies tend to look the same. None of them are hideous, but they all look so similar without 
 few variations. Now, in a game like F. E. A. R, that is explained away in that the enemies are, by 
 and large, clones. There is no excuse for that here. Some of the enemies are quite impressive and 
 the action moves fast enough to make one not notice the cookie-cutter vibe of the enemies. The 
 AI hardly seems impressive as the enemies have a nasty tendency of just sitting there, hoping to 
 kill you before you can kill them. Flanking and the like is seldom seen by the enemies, and that 
 is unfortunate.
  
  Now, the weaponry is where the game shines. Insomniac has the Midas touch with gaming weaponry 
 and this title is no different. The Bullseye was an absolute favorite of mine during the game as 
 it proved itself to be a thoroughly indispensable piece of artillery. The Auger was a great concept, 
 but it's usefulness, to me, was limited in comparison to other weaponry. Others like the LAARK 
 had ammo that was so scarce they were nigh useless. But the weaponry really was well made and it 
 alone turned the game from just another FPS to a rather good FPS .
  
  All things being equal, Resistance is a rather good FPS. The PS3 will easily have better ones (F. E. A. R 
 and Half-Life 2 are both planned and both are better) , but this is a fun diversion and is something 
 of a first step in the process of making the spending of $600 on this system nearly justifiable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverKeyMan
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:18 pm PT
Review:  Best selection of weapons in a FPS to date!
  Cooperative story mode, with an engrossing story!
  Addictive multiplayer, with a wide range of 
 levels!
  
  By far the best game I've played on PS3 or Wii to date, and the best FPS I've played since GoldenEye 
 on N64. I'm most impressed by the weapon selections, and how well they balance out in multiplayer.
 
  
  Auger - Ability to create a shield and shoot through it, but as a result you are stationary and 
 an easy target for anyone with the Lark, another Auger, or a handful of gernades.
  
  Lark - Typical bazooka, but with only two shots, this gun isn't the best primary weapon to use.
 
  
  Bullseye- Ability to tag targets, and have all your bullets bend towards your target makes this 
 gun ideal for close combat (with the typical FPS circling maneuver) , but horrible against someone 
 with the Auger (all bullest bend into the shield) .
  
  Many more weapons, but these are my favorites, by far.
  
  After owning this game since Thanksgiving, 
 I still play it 3x a week on multiplayer. I highly recommend this game to anyone with a PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csadhoo
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  I have only been playing this game today and I like it more than Gears of War! I have both a 360 
 and PS3 and I'm having more fun with my PS3. Xbox 360 was good for multiplayer but man, the PS3 
 online was flawless! No lag no disconnections nothing! The problem is that the players have no 
 headsets which can be a problem for me since I'm used to using a headset for the 360. After a while 
 I'll probably be used to it though. The game is really intense, the story is amazing and the weapons 
 are amazing. I like it when you have to shake the controller because it gets really intense and 
 then you start getting an adrenaline rush (well I did.) This is a must buy for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 7:49 am PT
Review:  As far as FPS are concerned this is the best i've played in a long time. The only thing I could 
 ask for on top of it is a longer story. A game like this is worth having a story 30 hours long. 
 Graphics are the best I've seen as of yet, with the detail of the dead bodies zoomed in and it 
 almost looks real. The fluidness of movement and use of the sixis is great. I do wish you could 
 use it more, but shacking off enemies is fun. I love how realistic the environment looks too from 
 the the detail on side walks, blocks etc. I'm happy that it didn't have extreamly vulgar language 
 as well. Personally, I believe great games can be made without harsh language. I believe this game 
 holds great value and hope to for a franchise of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonpugh
Rating: 8.6
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:31 pm PT
Review:  When I first fired up this game, it didn't seem to be anything special. As I played through it, 
 that all changed. This game is simply amazing. There are visuals that set it apart from anything 
 I've seen on a console. As an example, the glass windows in the game break realistically. I know 
 it's just a little thing but to me this is what next-gen consoles should be doing. Allowing interaction 
 with your surroundings is a must in current games. Tons of items being tossed around from explosions. 
 There are also a decent variety of weapons in the game. None of them too original but they are 
 still fun to use. Most notable are the air-gas grenades which spew out gas then ignite, burning 
 any enemies in the fire. It was my favorite to use but you couldn't find them enough. Most disappointing 
 was the standard frag grenade. The explosions seemed weak. Like a firecracker. Also when I found 
 the hedgehog grenades I was really hoping that they would pin someone to the walls. I was disappointed 
 to see they didn't work as expected.
  
  The enemies are smart. They understand when to take cover and when to charge you. Actually I was 
 very impressed by the AI. I really never played a game, with the exception of HALO, where the enemies 
 were that smart. Sometimes I felt like I was playing against human players.
  
  Overall I highly recommend this game. Those who have played HALO will see too many similarities 
 between them. To me they took a bunch of already great ideas from different games and compressed 
 them in to Resistance, which isn't a bad thing, just a little unoriginal. If you own a PS3 and 
 love FPS's then this is a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: somma_cronic
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  When I first got Playstation 3 this is the first game I got, I wasn't sure whether I should get 
 Call of Duty 3 of this. After I got this game, I realized I made the right choice. Resistance brings 
 gamers an intense gaming experience that incorperates both the trates of a WWII game, and an Alien 
 Shooter game. What I really like about this game is that there's always something happening, even 
 if your not doing it. For instance, in alot of missions aliens and other humans are constantly 
 fighting eachother, people are dieing and explosions are happening all around you. Alot unlike 
 other games which I like also, is that it's very realistic, other than the fact that there's aliens 
 doing a mass attack and trying to take over the world, but other than that bodies don't disapear, 
 alot of buildings\cars\boxes\etc. are destructable, and it has a great story line that guides you 
 through exactly what is happening. The graphics are also amazing, if you zoom in to any object 
 or person, you can see every single little detail and its in great clear quality. The online in 
 this game is also very intense, and if anyone says PSN isn't a good online service, get this game 
 and it will prove you wrong. You can play with up to 40 people online in one game, you can make 
 a clan for you and your buddies, your skill points grow as you play, you win new costumes, and 
 medals as you play. Also, after you beat this game once you just have to beat it again, and beating 
 it isn't quick to beat (like GoW: 1 Hour!!) it should actually take you around 10 hours to beat 
 this game on easy, and up to 20 hours to beat this game on hard! Plus after you beat it, you can 
 also beat it in coop mode, or you can just play online because thats surely addicting. Overall, 
 this game is well worth the money, because it takes time to beat, its great graphics, the gameplay 
 and the storyline are great, and it has alot of extras to do after you beat the game. Hope this 
 review helped someone...!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 8.7
Date: Feb 2, 2007 2:03 am PT
Review:  Resistance: fall of man was either a must buy to those who bought a console at launch or a must 
 rent for those who had no more money to buy a game. (ps3 price tag)
  
  Story (from GS) - American soldier named Nathan Hale, who is sent in to reinforce the UK's defenses. 
 A brush with death early on gives Hale a unique perspective of his foe and, before long, he's lone-wolfing 
 it against the worst that the Chimera has to offer.
  
  Gameplay  easy control setting (manual config) allows you to make the most of this game. The L2 
 and R2 buttons are sensitive though and you might do something you might not want to do. AI in 
 the game for most is tacky but good enough to notice what strategy they try to use on you. Sound 
 and Visuals in the game are what should be. On a HDTV you will get your moneys worth.
  
  Online  This is what makes this game so good. Always rooms to play in, patches have fixed certain 
 lag issues and an overall good time with other people. Multiple options of types of matches and 
 many users have a Bluetooth headset so the myth of nobody having a headset is not true.
  
  overall - Can't go wrong if you do buy this game since its the best out there now, but I didn't 
 so I will tell you MUST RENT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorky_yorkie
Rating: 9.4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 12:04 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man takes everything you have ever loved about FPS games and meshed it all 
 together. Personally I think the games only true downfall would be the games lack of online co-op 
 play. In all honesty, this game should not look as good as it does being a launch game. I will 
 say right now that this game is in every way the king of FPS games right now, as far as consoles 
 are concerned that is. The enemies, the weapons, the A. I. the story, the graphics, the sound (both 
 music and ambient) all come together for a powerful experience. If you want a game that looks great 
 in SD and AMAZING in HD then this game is a must buy for you as well. If you own a Playstation 
 3 and want a great game then I would easily recommend this game as it more than a good launch title... it's 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  to put it simply, this game is just plain fun. it may not be all complex or anything out of the 
 ordinary, but who doesnt love blasting these crazy looking alien creatures to shreds? There is 
 tons of cool guns that you can use and grenades as well. The characters could have been a bit better 
 developed, and the sound isnt all that great. along with that the story line is a bit wacky. but 
 in a game like this the story line really doesnt matter, you will soon forget about it for the 
 most part after ur playing the great game. they use the SIXAXIS controller well in this game too, 
 its lots of fun when the alines jump on you you just shake the controller, which at first feels 
 unnatural, but its pretty cool. The graphics look great in full HD and the mulitplayer is great. 
 This is a must buy for the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-tek
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  This is my first PS3 game, and I'm having a lot of fun with it. Unique weapons from the makers 
 of Ratchet Clank - wonderful. Some actually show off PS3's power in a way. The Sapper ( a mine-launcher 
 which the mines are blobs of goo) have a little personality. The hailstorm's (gatling gun's) rounds 
 reflect off of walls and some fire off in different directions. The Hedgehog grenade (best weapon 
 evar) produces hundreds of foot-long needles which look awesome and some hit, some miss. The LAARK's 
 Air Brake system breaks away form the ol' rocket launcher cliche a little. Story is boring at first 
 (I just wanted to play mostly) , but it does improve throughout. I spent a long time in the alien's 
 building sctructures - the futuristic textures had me entranced. Also, the game's graphics improve 
 and the AI of the Chimera gets pretty smart in my opinion - a little too smart for Easy difficulty. 
 Back to graphics, I have to say I'm very impressed. I 've played 360 too, and PS3's games seem 
 to have more color, which I prefer. The Chimera's faces are very detailed, and so ugly it's beautiful. 
 The gun in your hand has good shine and detail to it as well. Some wall textures are beautiful, 
 some aren't. Same with the ground textures. Once again, All the Chimera's structures are BEAUTIFUL. 
 Online is also fun - plenty of options for the matches. Only about 5 different types of matches 
 - No problem for me, I'm a Deathmatch/ Team Deathmatch kind of guy anyway. Personally, I recommend 
 the One-Hit-Kill Shotgun-Only Deathmatch.
  
  Conclusion - If you have a PS3, get this game. Wonderful launch title. Great game, but not one 
 of the greatest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hot909guy69
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 31, 2007 9:34 am PT
Review:  graphics are awsome, story is very cool, multiplayer is fast n fun, the ending rocks a la aliens 
 and leaves you wanting more... i just really cant say enough good stuff about it...
  
  One really sweet point, are the wepons, they are very varied. Ofcourse there are your typical, 
 shotgun etc... but some are very cool, like the XR-003 Sapper: The XR-003 Sapper mine launcher 
 is believed by British Intelligence to be a product of secret US weapons programs. Pressing R1 
 fires a stream of organic cluster mines. Each mine is encased in a living cell similar to those 
 used by the Widowmaker. The mines stick to most surfaces, including each other. In combat, the 
 Sapper can be used most effectively by setting large cluster mine traps for ambushing Chimera. 
 Aiming at a mine and pressing L1 will detonate the targeted mine. Other mines within the blast 
 radius will also explode. Holding L1 detonates all mines in the vicinity. 
  
  The only bad thing really is that I really wanted the story to be expanded just a bit more that 
 the charicters are brought out a lil more detailed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ssj3masenko
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 31, 2007 8:05 am PT
Review:  If you want a few hours of a good clean shootout, this is your game. It's stunning visuals, as well 
 as audio, makes it a must buy. The enemy AI are relatively intelligent, making a nice matchup for 
 you. The online multiplayer feature is almost flawless, letting you play in classic Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, A mode called Conversion, where after you lose a life, you switch to the opposite race, and 
 afterwards are eliminated. Also there are 3 others, Breach, Meltdown, and Capture the flag. The game 
 in Story Mode [Campaign] gives you GREAT weapons. The first you start with is the M5A2 Carbine, a 
 standard gun that rapid fires, and has two grenades that are launchable on top. In One Player, on 
 the Medium difficulty, you also get the Reapers, in the beginning after about five minutes of play. The 
 reapers are Dual pistols, using L1 to fire the left, and R1 to fire the right. The plot is original, and 
 easy to latch onto. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_GundamRX78
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 30, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I've heard a lot about the PS3 game Resistance: Fall of Mankind . Many people I heard and reviews 
 I read said it was a great game. I was doubtful, though. I like FPS's just as much as the next 
 gamer, but lately it's seemed many FPS games were severly lacking. So I was skeptical about just 
 how good Fall of Mankind really could be.
  After playing it I was pleasently surprised. This game really does live up to most of its hype. 
 No, it's not the best FPS I've ever played, but it's definately a great game and a lot of fun. 
 Almost everything can be destroyed or interacted with in some way within the game, being it blowing 
 off the legs of tables or hitting pool table balls with the end of your rifle. Though some objects, 
 for some reason, don't have bullet holes when you shoot them and other items do. Windows have bullet 
 holes if you shoot them, but couches and chairs do not... Along with other things. Water doesn't 
 have any effect either when you shoot at it, which is rather odd, but it's not really any sort 
 of game-breaking issue.
  
  The characters aren't all that interesting and the story isn't all that great either (and the story 
 isn't all that surprising, you can usually guess what will happen next) . The graphics are great 
 though and the game looks beautiful.
  
  Overall the game is fun, though it could indeed be better. It is a great game, though, and a worthy 
 addition to the PS3. It's worth picking up if you're an FPS fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gillster316
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 29, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  My first ps3 review and probably gonna be the best for the next 4 months. Resistance is one of 
 the greatest FPS games I have played in a long time. the A. I is very well done they never try the 
 same thing twice they take cover, throw bombs and are really tactical about it. The games graphics 
 are really well done the character models for the chimera are really nice but the human models 
 aren't as quite well done. The campaign is nice and long. But doesn't seem to give enough information 
 at some times. Online is great no lag great ranking system although the 'ranked games' that you 
 have to play to build up your character level (private, sergeant etc) is very difficult. The game 
 play for Resistance is very nice though it doesn't really add nothing new. But the weapons unique 
 abilities make up for the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  This is my first console game ever with my new PS3; I've been a PC gamer since 1997. In my book, 
 this game is perfect; outstanding graphics, perfect gameplay, some new very interesting weapons 
 for a shooters game, IA is clever (I found that the enemy sometimes can't see you when you hide) . 
 The multiplayer is a kind of Call of Duty mode, for those who want a fast competition. I have played 
 a lot of hours with this game so far and I cant absolutely find anything against this game. Id 
 be very surprised to hear that somebody didnt like this game; you wont regret to get it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Worriors213
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 29, 2007 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Ok im not really gunna wright alot this is just my opinion of a great game. First of all stop comparing 
 this game to a game like gears of war witch had years to be ready on the 360. I mean cmon this is 
 a launch title game that is freaking amazing. The 360 didnt have one great game at launch and you 
 360 fan boys are saying this game sucks and all that crap. I mean i gotta admit this game isnt better 
 that gears of war but its right next to it. But anyway i never liked first person shooter until 
 i bought this game. I got my PS3 and i didnt like any of the games and i keeped on reading about 
 resistance and how cool it was so i said to myself Hay lets give it a try. Now im completly hooked 
 on this game my 360 nis left collecting dust now, liturally it is i havent played gears in a cuple 
 of weeks now because of this game. The only problum about this game it that it it kinda repetitive 
 just like all first person shooter, YUP just like Halo witch i think in my opinion is a OK game 
 at best never really liked Halo but all FPS are all kind the same one way or another. But the weapons 
 in the game make you fell like you havent played a FPS ever because its cool how you cound kill 
 enimies in such different ways!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: derayokray
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 28, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  this game is a blast to play. it offers wide wrang of wepons and game play and intence ai that 
 well make you suffer badley. but you wont mind that much with a unlimited amount of lifes. the 
 games graphics are amazing and the story is a great story whit world war 2 never happening it gave 
 a fresh new look on FPS's this game is the best
  game on the PS3 to date whit great malti-player whit up to 40 players online for free using the 
 PS3 this game is a must have for the playstation3
  and if this is what we have to look forwards to from the PS3 thin 2007 is going to be one good 
 year for gameing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is the game to own at the PS3's launch, and it sure deserved it. The game 
 is almost flawless to play, online and offline.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  The gameplay of Resistance: Fall of Man is very well done. Being that this is my first Insomniac 
 game (I never played Ratchet and Clank) , I am utterly impressed by the team behind this game. the 
 gameplay works like Halo, Timesplitters, and Perfect Dark Zero mixed together. It borrows elements 
 from Halo's run and gun action and warthog-driving action. It then adds a dash of Timesplitter's 
 speedy characters, weird guns, and somewhat weird character designs. Finally, we see Perfect Dark 
 Zero's weird guns and stiff character models. The mix works very well together, and ends up being 
 very well made. The problems I have with the game is that their doesn't seem to be a clear indicator 
 of when your getting hit by gunfire, sometimes having you die without notice.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Very good effort. The game is a High Res version of Call of Duty 2. I cosider 
 that pretty good for a launch title of the PS3. While the system's abilities is def. better than 
 this effort, Insomniac made a great effort here to impress. Well done.
  
  Sound: 9/10
  Very good sounds and effect. The guns sound amazing, and the voice acting is very well done. The 
 creature's noises and grunts are spooky while well designed at the same time. Also, what a score 
 Resistance has! The music is very good and I love listening to some the game's track. The score 
 does challegne Halo's, bot I don't consider it better. One thing this game does lack is Nathan 
 Hale saying more. He says almost nothing in the game.
  
  Value: 9/10
  If you just bought a PS3, get this game. Its the most worthwhile title on the system at themoment, 
 and will be known as the first PS3 title to actually be worth it forever. This is Playstation's 
 Halo.
  
  Tilt: 9/10
  Its long, its got sweet Timesplitter guns, and it moves fast. This is my type of shooter. The storyline 
 is much better than that of Gears of War. However, like Gears of War, not too much is clear on 
 what and where the Chimera came from, and why the Hale is able to survive with a disease he has. 
 A guess they left that for Resistance 2.
  
  Overall: 9.0/10.0
  
  Nice effort, Insomniac. You made a fabulous title for this new system Sony has, and I congrat you 
 on this title. I reccommend this game to all those looking in to purchasing the PS3 soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haze_blaze
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 27, 2007 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is not great for reinventing the genre or providing anything terribly new... Resistance 
 is great because it does everything better than past FPS titles have done them! The story is a 
 lot more cohesive to the gameplay than most FPS titles. The weapons are awesome with many of them 
 having a unique feel as compared to the cookie cutter weapons in other games. And the game is great 
 all on its own.... but it continues to shine even more with its terrific online options. The single 
 player is a pretty lengthy campaign that never gets boring &amp; is very addictive. This is clearly 
 the best FPS I've played on a console in the past few years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanyc
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jan 26, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  Resistance is not the killer app for the Playstation 3. It's a by-the-books FPS from Insomniac 
 that plays a little too much like Disrupter (their other FPS effort) with a Half-Life complex. 
 Insomniac essentially took elements of these games and threw Call of Duty on top of it. It's a 
 mish-mash of other FPS games that are out already. THe game was apparently designed to take full 
 use of the Playstation 3's core processors. I sincerely hope that's not the case because the graphics 
 simply aren't spectacular. I saw this game at Gamestop a few days before the PS3 was released and 
 I wasn't blown away by it. It was quite depressing. I felt that if this is what the PS3 is capable 
 of then what's the point in paying $600 for the system. At it's highest resolution you still get 
 sharpness problems: jagges, white and black outlines on everything, colors too bright and blinding. 
 I wasn't impressed with the graphics or gameplay. Judging Resistance as just another FPS is fine 
 simply because it is a worthy addition to a too-bloated genre. Taken as a definition of the power 
 of the PS3, it's a total failure. I would wait until the second or third generation of PS3 to see 
 the true power (or lack of power) of the system. Kudos to Insomniac though for not bringing out 
 a tired sequel or remake. It's better than Ratchet and Clank HD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 25, 2007 11:44 pm PT
Review:  Being one of the few (using that word loosely) who own the PS3 I can say this. This is indeed one 
 of the best games to open the consoles life. I dont like WW2 themed games any more, but this game 
 gave new life to an aging genere. By taking an old (in more ways than one) premise and implanting 
 some new concepts this games takes off. The story SGT. (Finally and NCO non commisioned officer 
 and not a LT or CPT) Nathan Hale is in the middle of battle, but his fight for his life is form 
 more than Nazi There are ailen beings known as the Chimera who have slowly made their way through 
 the soviet for ten years in seclusion. They are now looking for their day. SGT (I love saying that 
 cause im one lol) Hale must fight them off, but he himself has a secret that helps him. Has this 
 apporach been done before Yes has ot worked so well No . Resistence is a great game and proves 
 this in many ways and for a first wave game like this to be compared to a second wave game like 
 Gears of War thats saying something in and of itself. The gameplay is fantastic as the weapons 
 make this game. not since 007 golden eye or Half Life 2 have weapons been this fun. A standard 
 rifle, A wave gun, a special sniper rifle, Special ailen grenades, and more. This game has it and 
 a shooter is only as good as its weapons and this one packs it in. I liken this game to a slow 
 paced Timesplitters. Weapons have dual uses, the same control with the exception that you can jump. 
 The battles though are on a large scale. You will see your fellow soldiers fall and fight run and 
 cringe with life like realism. What I dont like though is that your fellow soldiers dont stand 
 much of a chance and are oush overs. The also dont help you that much. The action is intense for 
 you though. You'll be ducking to avoid fire and in very heavy dosage. These Chimera are savage 
 and so acurate you wont believe it. Its like they never miss. They will also lure you into traps 
 by pretending to run away and then their buddies will pop out on you and terminate you. While not 
 as visceral as Gears its still gratifying. There are also vehicles that you can ride in every now 
 and again which are a great change of pace. The Sounds are top notch. Bullets wiz, Chimera call 
 out to each other, fellow soldiers yell orders, explosions happen all around you and I have stereo 
 so I can imagine this in surround sound. The weapons dont all offer convincing sounds as some fall 
 flat. I will say this though The sniper rifle in this game is to die for. It is the best use of 
 a sniper rifle since Max Paynes. The Narration done by the female english officer is a great way 
 to hear the story unfold too. You'll like this games sounds. The Graphics -- While they are great 
 in a lot of respects somethings arent as good in it as they should be. While the enemies look fearsome 
 when shot they go through the same animations when they die. When you shoot a downed enemy blood 
 spurts but no visible damage is seen. The backgrounds are not indestructable like if you shoot 
 a table theres no hole left in it. The back grounds are unbelieveable when in the heat of the battle 
 the exslposions going off and the enemies surround you man it looks great. Its the little things 
 that get you in this one. Its hard to describe, but while good it leaves you wanting more. The 
 Replay on this one is great while not like the 360's achievements which make you feel like you 
 acomplished something cause it goes towards and overall score. Where as in this game they have 
 achievements, but you dont feel quite as good or care as much as you can compare it to no one elses 
 score via the internet. Although! You do get medals for certain feats online which feels real good 
 and pushes you to play more. So this makes up for the offline achievements. This is a great game 
 all in all and if you do have a PS3 get this game its very entertaining. It leave you with a sense 
 of satisfaction and in some cases pushes you to keep playing. You often want to see whats going 
 to happen next. The Online is insane with a 40 person battle that clocks in for some major mayhem. 
 With different gaming modes like CTF, Deathmatch, and Protect the node youll be playing this for 
 a while. Get it, enjoy it, and live it. PEACE and thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Buddy53189
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 25, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Ok this one of the best game that came out for this system by far. I mean look at the graphics 
 and gameplay. Also there is no clipping but you will eventually see on online because its online.
 
  
  Ok back to the good stuff. This game has outstanding graphics especially if you have a HDTV. There 
 are a variety of weapons and all kicka$$. I like that you can reload in good amount of time to 
 get back to the action. Also the other weapons which are grenades and spike grenade and fuel grenade. 
 All are very good but be careful because it can back lash on you. Another thing about this game 
 is the closeup combat or using you gun as a melee weapon to knock out enemies or friends online. 
 Which is cool because if your out of ammo.
  
  Now lets talk about the Chimera. They have this thing called rage mod which increase your speed, 
 strength, and also helps you lock on enemies more carefully and look ike there glowing. But don't 
 get confuse with your fellow allies. There start up weapon is kind of crappy but the lock on target 
 beacon that is a secondary fire helps you take them out, so its not all that bad.
  
  The environment helps the player to have a fell for the environment and you can also interact with 
 things in the environment. You can blow up a car or even have fun and blow one tire like a dork. 
 But the environment is very captivating and have you exploring for things like documents you find 
 along the way in the game.
  
  The gameplay hours are probably 8 - 10 depending how good you are at the game. Also the co-op mode 
 is pretty cool to because you have a buddy tag along to help you kick some a$$. Also online is 
 very diverse in a way you meet people with different rank and ribbons. Which of course I have many, 
 especially for melee because I knock you out online one way or another. You can make clans which 
 is awesome but kind of boring at times. On the cinematic side there were many cut scenes but no 
 cinematic cut scene which I want to see in every game but I settled for the cut scenes. So over 
 all this game gets a 8.7 from me. But they could of made a 9 if they put more detail in different 
 categories. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skippyj9
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is an amazing game. It takes elements from Half-Life and Halo and combines 
 them together to make one of the best FPS you will ever play. However this is one of the two downsides 
 to Resistance. The game is highly unoriginal. But the execution is nearly flawless.
  
  In Resistance WWII never happened because an alien race called the Chimera landed in Europe and 
 are set to destroy mankind. Here's the second flaw. The story and characters are two dimensional. 
 But you can't really complain since the story still moves forward with you as Nathan Hale, a US 
 soldier stuck with the British troops after your squadron was destroyed. Hale acquired a few of 
 the Chimeran traits as well. The game is long. It's the longest FPS I have ever played, and on 
 top of that, the online play is the best that I have ever played.
  
  There are a large variety of weapons, too many to describe and unlike other FPS, each and every 
 weapon will be used on a regular basis, even near the end of the game when you have obtained every 
 single weapon.
  
  Online play features many different play modes, featuring capture the flag, deathmatch, node-capture, 
 and survival modes all of which are thoroughly entertaining. In online mode there is a ranking 
 system offering 61 levels of ranks and each level grants you another object or skin to customize 
 your character with. There is a clan and buddy system built into the game and options to search 
 for games that your clan members or buddies are playing. There are little to no lag problems in 
 Resistance's online play. It's hard to find the flaws of the multiplayer options since there are 
 none.
  
  Overall, Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the best FPS I have ever played despite its unoriginality 
 and lack of a decent story and character-development. No PS3 owner should not own Resistance: Fall 
 of Man and if you have been considering buying a PS3 but not sure if you want to wait for the rest 
 of the good games, my suggestion to you is to buy now because Resistance: Fall of Man will entertain 
 you for months long past the release dates of the winter batch of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: espoac
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 25, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  First the positive; the most stand out accolade for Resistance is the graphics. Keeping in mind 
 that this is a first-generation title, Resistance is gorgeous. Character models are incredibly 
 detailed as are the enviroments. The texture work isn't quite as impressive, but forgiveable when 
 you factor in the amount of action occuring at any given time on screen. The audio is also quite 
 good. There's some good orchestral work, but the music really takes a back seat to the rush of 
 bullets flying and lumbering robots devastating the battlefield. The gameplay is also well done. 
 You can choose to take cover and snipe at foes or go in with guns blazing, rifle-buts abound. The 
 weapon design is also fantastic, and original, really one of the best weapons sets ever in a shooter. 
 This is also complemented by remarkable enemy A. I. The story is interesting on it's own, but the 
 execution feels rushed and there's almost no character development. While the story is a downer, 
 the MP simply rocks. 40 player online is a great innovation for consoles. Besides the story RFOM's 
 biggest flaw is that while the game is extremely well crafted it's mostly unoriginal. There are 
 a few d&egrave; ja vu moments here in there in regards to Halo and Call of Duty, that will hamper 
 the atmosphere a bit. Despite these small complaints though RFOM is a must but for PS3 owners. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaGrateOne
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 27, 2007 5:17 am PT
Review:  I now own a PS3 and have to say I am very surprised this game is way up there in ratings. From 
 XPLAY's 5 out of 5 to this 8.6 on GameSpot.... I just don't know. This game doesn't to me feel like 
 anything new or revolutionary. The absent rumble feature takes away from the very large guns that 
 are available in Resistance. The visuals are good... clean... clear... but there are other games that 
 offer the same and more on other consoles that get the same rating. I was looking for something 
 other than a game that loads.... and loads... and plays like games 3 and 4 years older than this. 
 So far the PS3 does not live up to what SONY said... due to being the NEXT-GEN when launched. In 
 my opinion it is still behind from game-set and multiplayer. I am trying to be honest when it comes 
 to comparing the PS3 to the XBOX 360. The price of the system and the speed at which games take 
 to load up..... is very dissapointing. The PS3 comes with standard YELLOW (video) white and red... cables... and 
 I will look to invest even more for the HDMI... hoping these games look alot better. This game is 
 not bad.... I think the price should be dropped or BLU-ray needs to up the speed on loading time. 
 If you are looking for games that are actually fun and look good... for a price that holds up on 
 it's own end.... this is very difficult to say about the PLAYSTATION 3. If it was the same price 
 as the competition.... that would still be difficult to go with... This game is really nothing special... but 
 the 40 player online matches are pretty good. Weapons are still basic with having more than one 
 use for each. If you have the extra money and want to play something a little different... this 
 is a game that will be good for a little while... not years from now. Graphicly and sounds... this 
 game is just above average... compared to Gears of War... this game is not .... Then enemy aliens 
 just fall over when shot... there is very small amount of feeling when killings happen. I was hoping 
 for something a little more intense. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:21 pm PT
Review:  I was one of the lucky people who was able to find a PS3 at retail price during the holiday season. 
 I had been spoiled rotten by the game play and drop dead gorgeous graphics of Gears of War and 
 was thus skeptical of getting Resistance. I went home with my PS3, but chose not to buy any games 
 because there wasn't anything out there that really impressed me. Especially after playing Gears 
 of War. I gave in a couple of days later and decided to buy a copy of Resistance because not owning 
 a game for my PS3 seemed like a pretty dumb idea. Everyone and their mom kept on saying that it 
 was THE game to get with a PS3 so I bought into the hype and got the game. After spending about 
 20 hours with the game and completing the campaign, I have to admit, I'm pretty impressed. Believe 
 it or not, this game is as good as Halo in my opinion. It has a fairly good story (for a FPS) , 
 rock solid game play, and very good graphics. The only thing is, Halo came out many years ago and 
 you're not going to find any revolutionary features from the typical FPS. The online works as advertised 
 and is actually quite fun. This is a very good first step for the new Playstation Network. If you 
 like first person shooters and/or own a PS3, then you should buy this game because quite frankly, 
 it's very good and there's nothing else worth buying on the system at this point. This game absolutely 
 pisses on the lame excuse that was an Xbox 360 launch title called Perfect Dark Zero. This is a 
 long game and unlike the game I just mentioned, it is a complete game. This game was NOT rushed 
 and it shows. The physics in the game are fantastic. What impressed me the most about the game 
 was the fact that MANY battles took place on the screen at the same time. NOT ONCE did I encounter 
 a frame rate issue/ slowdown. Very impressive indeed.
  
  The sound effects are excellent and the graphics are very good. They're not Gears of War quality, 
 but they're a VERY noticeable improvement over PS2 graphics. The controls are mapped out well, 
 although I had some issues with my SIXAXIS... Sometimes my controller would completely go AWOL on 
 me. I'd spin around in circles or randomly slide over to one side of the screen for a few seconds. 
 Under most circumstances I would deduct some points from the overall score because of this, but 
 the game redeems itself towards the end. The game starts off strong, but then begins to drag on 
 for a while towards the middle of the game. I agree with reviewers who feel that this game can 
 be somewhat monotonous and even borderline boring when playing single player. When playing co-op 
 however, it becomes A LOT better. I like how the difficulty is increased when playing co-op. It 
 was a nice touch from the developers. Although I do think that the game drags on for a while towards 
 the middle, the last few chapters of the game REALLY IMPRESSED me. There are big boss battles, 
 wide open environments, large gunfights, and basically everything that we love in FPS games. The 
 graphics are noticeably better towards the end of the game. If I rated this game before completing 
 it, I would probably give it an 8.3, but after finishing it, I can say that it earns its extra 
 half point. I'm also being rather generous with respect to my scoring because of the fact that 
 this is a launch title. Either way, this is a very good game that warrants your attention and your 
 sixty dollars. The online is GRAVY and the fact that it is free is an absolutely great thing. Play 
 this and catch up on your PS2 collection while you wait for BIG TIME games like Lair, Motor Storm, 
 MGS4, and GT: HD, and Final Fantasy XIII. You won't regret it. I promise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistacoon
Rating: 5.9
Date: Jan 24, 2007 6:44 am PT
Review:  All the creators did was take World War 2 and replace the germans with aliens. the weapons are 
 ridiculous and the level design is just plain boring! probably the stupidest weapon idea is shooting 
 through walls. YA HOW R U GOING TO SEE WHAT U R SHOOTING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! and the levels are as 
 boring as Halo 2s campaign. its your standard get to the other side of the straight line. Its sad 
 that this is the best game the PS3 can dish out. a better game idea would of been u taking place 
 as the aliens during around the World War 2 time and killing all the Humans. This game screams 
 Call of Duty with Halo 2 campaign and just stupid ideas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamaroChevySS
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 24, 2007 12:53 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: For the most part it's general FPS, but there's nothing really wrong with that. The weapons 
 in the game are great, very innovative, just what you'd expect from the guys that made Rachet and 
 Clank. The Enemy A. I is nothing to scoff at either, even on easy the Chimera can give you a solid 
 challenge towards the end of the game. However, if you want the ultimate challenge, nothing beats 
 a live online opponent. Online multiplayer modes remind me a lot of Halo, where it's fast and frantic 
 and you do a lot of dying. Once you get the hang of it it's a blast though.
  
  
  Graphics: I wasn't totally blown away, but it does look next gen. However, this game graphically 
 reminds me of Killzone on a ton of steroids.
  
  Sound: Great, the heavy weapons sound heavy and the light machine guns sound loud and crisp. The 
 enemies sound creepy as well, you can tell that nothing was left out in the sound department.
 
  
  Value: I gave this an 8 because right now, not too many people have PS3's, but the one's that do 
 all want this game.
  
  Overall: I liked it, a lot. It will take skill to beat this game as your health depletes fast and 
 yor enemies aren't a bunch of retards that stand there and get shot. It's no Halo, but it's very 
 fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff10andff12
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  The game is excellantly made. A little rushed for launch but other than a quick finish to the games 
 story its one of the funnest and refreshing FPS's out there. Deffinately a Pick up game for your 
 PS3. Best first gen game for any console. The story line leaves you a bit confused, but gets a 
 point across. The gameplay is very fun, especially Online and up to 40 players gets intense. The 
 weopans could've used more polishing, but they still give each weapon a good replay value to each 
 one. The graphics are pretty amazing alot of cool lighting techniques and good shading. The character 
 models are pretty good but needed more polishing. The level design is fenominal, huge levels, and 
 when theres 40 player brawling on a map theres no lag wat so ever. Very good game with a hell of 
 a lot of potential if had more developement time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Windblade91
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 23, 2007 7:55 am PT
Review:  The gameplay is just any other FPS, the game itself is not to hard to figure out, though the online 
 play is more addicting that the actual game... so u might never beat the game or you might beat 
 it a year later. Story itself is good but could have been better, graphics, physics are all top 
 notch and show the ps3's potential (and this game barely scratches the surface) . The online play 
 is also very well made the maps are nice and very lush, there is no such thing as lag unless you 
 have a crappy connection, the ranked games are also very good if you arent very good atm playing 
 ranked games gradually increaces your skill.
  
  Overall excellent game, possible to make a sequel to it as well, of the first batch of games to 
 be released this is among the best of the best. Especially if it can match up to Gears!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theo_1
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 1:58 pm PT
Review:  Sure this game does not comapare to GoW or RBS; Vegas but this is a launch title an considering 
 that this game is really great. The graphics are definately next gen and the weapon selection is 
 great. Online play is where this game shines though. From my experience my online experience is 
 better playing this than anything I have played on Xbox live. The more time I spend playing the 
 more I like this game and the story line is compelling. Will this cause someone to jump to PS3? 
 NO but it is still a great game. I am looking forward to games coming out in Feb, and March lots 
 of Killa games comn soon.
  
  I have finally beat this game 38 levels and am now playing it on the hardest level you get some 
 really sweet weapons when you play through again on the hardest level and I mean SWEET. Online 
 is really great with a buddy list and complete stats tracker. Insomniac just made some really good 
 updates which shows great support. This is Truly a great game and deserves much more attention 
 and honor than it has been given. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoticdoom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 22, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. The campaign was great and had awesome replay value, i played 3 times on 
 single player, and atleast 2 twice on co-op. The graphics were really good in 720p and i think 
 they rivaled GeoW in comparison. maybe not blunt looking at it, but the background and the character 
 models were much more detailed in my opinon. On to the multiplayer, it was great, as i have already 
 mentioned the co-op was great, online would have been nice, but not necessary. But the versus was 
 amazing, 20 v 20 is great and it is extremely fun.
  Great game best FPS ive played in a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 22, 2007 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Resistance has amazing graphics on an HDTV. The video cut scenes look incredible. The Dolby Digital 
 surround sound is equally amazing. You can actually use the surround speakers to tell where an 
 opponent or the computer is located. The story line is interesting, but kind of cheesy at times. 
 Online play is fun, and I have only noticed lag once or twice. There are many online modes to choose 
 from, but sometimes it's difficult getting into a game of similar level players. There's always 
 one or two players much better than the rest, which can get frustrating.
  
  The weapon selection is OK, but some of the weapons are just plain stupid (the sapper!) . Other 
 weapons are great, if you can find ammo. That is a continual problem in the game... finding ammo 
 for the gun you really want to use. You pick up the hailstorm, but then you can't find ammo for 
 two levels! You get the rocket launcher, but only a couple shells.
  
  Overall a great game, probably one of the best out for PS3 so far. If you buy this game, make sure 
 you try the online play, it's one of the best features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knnth
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 22, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big FPS person. I've had a few, and have fun with them, but generally just play through 
 the campaign and then sell them off. Resistance is different. I can't quite put my finger on it, 
 but it seems that so very many good decisions have been made, and it's such an excellent implementation, 
 that I just keep playing.
  
  To begin with, Resistance delivers on most of the promises that Sony has been making to us for 
 so long. The graphics are great, and unbelievable in some spots, mostly notably in some of the 
 long-view glimpses of the battlefields you're about to enter before you're given control of your 
 character after a cutscene. The frame rate is rock solid. 40-player online games are remarkably 
 tight.
  
  The campaign has an interesting plot (though not entirely original) , and the richness with which 
 that plot is delivered as you're taken through the various environments native to the Chimera is 
 palpable. Throughout, you're handed fantastic toys, ranging from guns that shoot around corners 
 and through walls to grenades that launch spikes in all directions. The bad guys are quite smart, 
 and run the gamut from carefully hiding when under fire to squads going commando and ripping you 
 apart.
  
  It's also truly spooky in parts, and you get a sense of dread, wondering what's around the next 
 corner.
  
  In the end, the total brilliance lies in the online multiplayer games. There's custom game creation 
 as well as a ranked system which is a bit of a grab bag of games, like straight team deathmatches, 
 but also include game-themed modes like breach or meltdown , which involve taking down coolant 
 nodes and slowly picking away at the opposing team's defenses.
  
  In addition, Insomniac has created a web site, myresistance. net, where you can download extras, 
 check stats and chat with other players (some of these bits are still under construction, but in 
 the works) . Insomniac has proven themselves to truly care about what they're developing and selling 
 to us, and I consider this game a promise made good in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ricebowlbad
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 21, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  This game was awesome. From the moment you start playing the game you know its gonna be great. 
 Graphics were really nice, AI were fantastic, the levels were long, But what really made this game 
 was the amount of different weapons. You had the basic assault rifle and shotgun but after that 
 there were so many different weapons that made the game so much more of a pleasure to play. Co-op 
 was really fun as well but no online co-op was a bummer. How this game only got a 8.6 is beyond 
 me. This game shed some light on what the ps3 can do in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 21, 2007 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of the Must-Have games on the PS3. It won't disappoint.
  
  I'll make this very short. Resistance is about a Soldier named Hale. He is infected by a virus 
 which should've killed him , but for some reason, he didn't. He is now very curious on what's happening 
 to himself after he got infected. His mission is to find out the source of these Biological experiments 
 and the truth that Russia have behind there backs... When you start the game, you will have 3 game 
 modes; Campaign, Cooperative, and Multiplayer. In the Campaign, you can select a New Game, Continue 
 Game, and Level Select. The Level Select allows you to play Missions or Stages that you have completed 
 in the Campaign Mode. This becomes very handy when you want to just jump into anywhere in the story 
 at any time. The Multiplayer allows you to play 40 people online battles, yes, 40!! and lag free...
 
  
  R: FoM shows off some amazing physics and looks. Some of you might have seen on demos. There are 
 times when you have to go against 10 or more enemies, which makes the game looks like real war. 
 You will see bullets flying everywhere. The draw distance on this game is very good. You can see 
 that the background looks and feels amazing, like it's real or something. My favorite part of the 
 graphics are the character designs. The Chimera's looks so real upclose, it's scary.
  
  Btw, this game has a lot of unique weapons.
  
  The physics are done really well on this game. 
 The AI doesn't just stands there and allow you to kill him. He would actually find cover and there 
 are times go around and try to kill you from behind. Take you time with this game, cause it can 
 be hard for ppl who don't play FPS's.
  
  Did I mention that this game has a lot of unique weapons?
  
  The sound is amazing too. The 
 sound effects are so real that even when you bump into something there's sounds to it. Unlike other 
 games, there's no sound effects when you bump into things. The music is very good too and it knows 
 when to stop when it tries to scare you in certain parts of the game. I jumped a couple of times 
 in the game.
  
  Oh, did I mention that this game has a lot of unique weapons?
  
  When you finish the campaign, go play the multiplayer online for FREE. You won't have to pay a 
 dime to play this online and there is absolutely almost no lag. The multiplayer adds a lot of replay 
 value to this game. Overall, this game is a must buy if you have your PS3. Good luck and get your 
 copy soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bdondabeast
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 5:39 pm PT
Review:  Te game resistance to me is probab; y the best game ever, but it has one flaw that i think makes 
 the game les exciting. there is only two species human and chimera. if they weren't going to make 
 more than two species, they should have at least gave the aliens more special abilities. i think 
 the game is still great, i love online gaming the best due to the fact that you respawn ready to 
 die again. the game is still amazing no matter what anyone says. the storyline is one of few that 
 keeps me on the edge of my seat. to me this game has out done gears of war no doubt about it, and 
 im pretty sure anybody with both systems and games would agree. If you ask me i would definatley 
 choose resistance over any ps3 game. especially if you like first person shooter games. basically 
 what i am saying is the game is perfect except for the fact that aliens only have one different 
 power. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digital_DJ_00
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 21, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  While this title being one of the first games for the PS3, it'll remain one of the best. The storyline 
 is very creative, I love how you're a soldier in the 1950's. Plus I like how instead of WWII occuring, 
 the Chimera uprise took its place. Your arsenal through out the game is awesome, this game has 
 alot of fun guns to choose from. Some gun designs in this game are very impressive and innovative. 
 The graphics are impressive as well. The enemy A. I. surprisingly has a common sense, making taking 
 down baddies not as easy. It's not the best FPS, but it's certainly one of the funnest. If you 
 own a PS3, definately give this a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vip3r666
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 20, 2007 2:08 pm PT
Review:  The first time i picked up the controller and played resistance I thought to myself Great, another 
 FPS. Been there, done that . Fortunately I was very wrong. The first time you play Resistance, 
 you might think it's just like every other FPS that's out there, but it's not. As soon as you get 
 deeper into the story and into the character you realize that even though the game has the action 
 of an FPS, it has the story and plot of a Hollywood movie.
  
  The AI and game difficulty is what got me the most. When you start out the enemies are fairly easy 
 to kill, and somewhat stupid. However, as you progress further and further into the game, you will 
 see that it also gets harder and harder to kill them. They start to use walls for cover, they hide 
 behind boxes, and they throw grenades at you while they are reloading. The gameplay and storyline 
 of this title are sure to make you want to keep playing long after you beat it.
  
  Graphics-wise, Resistance isn't on the Top 10 list, but hey, it's a launch game, no? There are 
 some graphical glitches here and there, but those can be overlooked. The atmosphere is incredibly 
 sombre, and it makes you feel like you're actually there, staring at the aftermath of a war. Crumbled 
 buildings, broken glass, burning cars, dead bodies laying around, it all contributes to an overall 
 experience.
  
  Multiplayer is where Resistance: Fall of Man gets a 10. Honestly, I don't think the people at Insomniac 
 could have done a better job with multiplayer. Playing with 39 other people and getting no lag 
 whatsoever is absolutely amazing. Also the different online game modes, like Deathmatch, Capture 
 the Flag, Meltdown, Breach, and other are sure to please everyone.
  
  All in all, Resistance is a good deal, and a lot of fun, especially if you love the FPS genre. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2007 8:46 am PT
Review:  I didn't get the PS3 for Resistance: Fall of Man, but it is the best game out for the system right 
 now, and it holds up well against most other shooter on any other system. That's mostly because 
 it takes most of the best features from other good shooters and blends them together for a smooth 
 experience.
  
  The single player part of the game is all I'll talk about because I haven't really play the multiplayer. 
 The single player campaign is fast moving and fun. Blasting aliens never gets old, especially when 
 you can use some very cool weapons, often their own, against them.
  
  The weapons operate and sounds amazing. The game is fairly immersive, being in afirst person perspective. 
 The controls are accurate and easy. The PS3 Sixaxis controller is great, but I thought that some 
 control assignments were somewhat odd. Changing weapons, for instance, is something that took some 
 getting used to. However, the shoulder buttons are put to good use, either for alternation fire 
 or throwing grenades. Movement in the game is smooth and the levels are very nicely laid out.
 
  
  Graphics are amazing, and there is so much detail. The picture on my HDTV is crisp, but that is 
 not what sets the graphics in this game apart from almost all other 360 games in my collection. 
 It is the sheer amount of things being drawn and the many things going on around my character in 
 the game. Explosions, men running, shooting, etc. all combine to make Resistance: Fall of Man on 
 of the most busy shooters I've played. Unfortunately, there isn't much interaction between whats 
 going on and what I'm doing, which is the same for an FPS, blasting enemies.
  
  Enemy A. I. isn't that great, but there is enough of a challenge for me. The game is still suspenseful 
 and exciting, but not exactly difficult. The part where I die are usually because I didn't see 
 a trap or ambush. The second time around is a breeze, but this keeps the games story moving along 
 at a rapid pace.
  
  The story is standard, if not muddled a bit, and narrated by a British chick. She tells about events 
 that had happened, and you play them out with the main character, who has a little bit of personality, 
 but not much. This is an FPS afterall, so who needs personality, right? Actually, I appreciated 
 it in Gears of War, with Fenix and his issues. I'll tell ya one thing I really miss, it's taking 
 cover behind stuff . . .
  
  Resistance: FoM is a good, fun shooter that is keeping me quite busy and entertained while I wait 
 for several other titles to come to the PS3. It is an above average shooter that you won't regret 
 playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan_brouwer
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 13, 2007 6:57 am PT
Review:  This game was the game to get during the PS3's launch. Many people wondered if it would be worth 
 it and several call it mediocre to this day. I really enjoyed playing this game from my first single 
 player level on medium to my last level on hardcore. What really makes this game worth the $60 
 price tag is not the single player game, but the online. Don't get me wrong, this game is fun to 
 play by yourself or with your friends on the internet.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  While Resistance isn't the best looking game on the market, it has some nice visuals. The textures 
 look good throughout most of the game, and the framerate rarely slows. The big environments look 
 great, and the big enemies look great.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  Resistance has a lot of similarities to Halo. It's physics are quite similar (maybe with a bit 
 of Half Life thrown in) . It's gameplay is the same run and gun experience as Halo. It has a slight 
 addition of scare to it as well. Menials may jump on your face from out of nowhere or a bunch of 
 leapers will pop out of a traincar and you'll jump. It's kind of a cheesy, suspected scare, but 
 sometimes it works. This game does what it's supposed to do well, but if you're looking for a tactical 
 FPS this game should not be a consideration.
  
  SOUND: 10
  Resistance has a great sound to it. The shooting and other various sounds all sound as they should 
 be. There is some music to set the theme in later levels, and it does a great job of doing so.
 
  
  VALUE: 10
  I gave this game a 10 in value because I will probably be playing it for the next couple years 
 online with my buddies. Playing online with friends in a clan is very fun. Whether you're trying 
 to take over a 20 player defended base or to capture a team of 4's flag, this game is a lot of 
 fun online. Offline this game still offers quite a bit to do. Skill points, additional weapons, 
 and cinematics can all be unlocked and you can play the game with a friend.
  
  TILT: 8
  This game is about as innovative as Halo 2 was when it came out and probably what Halo 3 will be 
 like when it comes out. This game introduces a wide array of cool new weapons, and that's the only 
 reason it got an 8 for tilt. The shaking of the controller was somewhat fun the first few times, 
 but got lame later on. The FPS tweaker genre has continued as it has before with few changes.
 
  
  OVERALL: 9.3
  This game gets a 9.3 because it just plain rocks. Without the online component it would get an 
 8 (at best) from me, so if you don't have an internet connection the experience will be slightly 
 less rewarding. If you do have an internet connection then you've probably been fragged by DJasper99 
 (or will be) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravage9218
Rating: 9.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  This game beats halo by far. Halo has pansy-@$$ mother-@#$%in aliens running around. The story 
 line for RESISTANCE is excellent, the single-player is a lot of fun, and you won't wanna miss the 
 MULTIPLAYER! Jump in as a CHIMERA or HUMAN and fight to the death in dm, tdm, ctf, meltdown, and 
 conversion (buy game to find out more.) You rank up and as you do you will earn new skins and sign 
 up at myresistance. net to receive the Cloven skin. You can also earn new medals and ribbons and 
 join different clans and even have clan battles. Will you fight to save humanity or kill it yourself. 
 If you wan't a kick-ass fps and awesome multiplayer buy RESISTANCE: FALL OF MAN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gorilla-x
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 17, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  yes is true fall of man is good but i think i speak for must people when it comes the real reason 
 why ps3 KILL ZONE2 my opinion it will become what was meant to be HALO killer!!!!!! As we all know 
 when we first heard about kill zone they were call it halo killer did not happened for different 
 reason but lets face it the look and feeling and the AI kill zone is perfect the chemistry is there. 
 hope that fall of man will live to the name and brings a sequel is the closest to kill zone for 
 now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpcc86
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 17, 2007 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a fairly decent game, as said before, but thats about it. It grows on you as you 
 begin to like it, but it will never feel like one of the best games of it's kind that you've played 
 before.
  
  This game mixes a lot from previous FPS. It mixes old school just shoot like crazy with the idea 
 of plan your strategy , and personally, i think it came out good. Realistic military environment 
 with alien-like creature extermination, it's like a massive cliche of its genre. Resistance has 
 a very weak story, non-original in my opinion, thats a mayor fluke, and you might not even care 
 for it, most of the game it might feel like you just have to shoot like crazy and run instead of 
 planning some sort of strategy, but theres much more to it. Resistance has farily good graphics, 
 next-gen, not the best, but neither bad, the characters are well defined and the enviroment is 
 even better. The thing is that you might just be shooting and running to even pay attention to 
 it.
  There's a massive number of enemies, something we didn't find in previous FPS . Since most of the 
 game you will be outnumbered, there's a big arsenal to your disposal. Enemies are well designed, 
 but they are nothing impressive, the AI adds up to the challenge and you will just love to kill 
 those guys, as a matter of fact, I personally despise and hate spider-like creatures in videogames, 
 which this game has plenty of it. You will learn to hate the Chimera. Gameplay is good, fairly 
 easy to handle, and very comfortable when playing, control is nice. Same could be said about sound, 
 as you might not even bother to analyze it, sound is pretty good and it will add up to your tension 
 when shooting like crazy, it won't annoy you, it serves it's propouse. The thing about this game 
 is that is, in teory, one of the best ps3 games... And thats what people seem to be criticizing 
 about it, Is it so hard to realize that ps3 has no games now?
  I have read many people try to compare it to GoW from 360 and favor the last one, which is in my 
 opinion a very childish attitude. One has to be objective and realize that 360 has had a year of 
 development, GoW comes as one the best in all that year. PS3 is just starting, and resistance is 
 one of the very first games of the console. I'ts like comparing Final Fantasy with Lunar Legend. 
 It's just something you dont do. Some people call it ... common sense . That's the current problem 
 that people don't seem to get when they compare the wii, 360 and ps3, that the last console has 
 the least of games. One can't compare wii's Zelda and Xbox 360 's GoW with any of the current Ps3 
 games, because it lacks of good games, ps3 is still in it's first steps. Let's wait to Sony's console 
 to develop to see what it has to offer. In anyway, fot those who really love FPS my advice is simple, 
 play Resistance. Rent it first, and see how it grows on you, dont expect it to be the best FPS 
 you've played so far, but it will definitely leave a good flavor on you. Long story short, Resistance 
 is one of those FPS that you should play when you get bored from better games from time to time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 17, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This game is really good and fun to play. Resistance is not one of those games you can blow through 
 within a 4-5hrs and be drawn into a dimension of bordem. This game is actually pretty long and 
 the plot keeps you hooked. Gameplay- The gameplay is pretty straight forward. It's a first person 
 shooter and for those who need a comparison (Halo 2) . The controls are pretty simple and the guns 
 are far beyond HOT! The online gameplay is also very fun and entertaining. Even though for now 
 not alot of people have the headset, so it'll be pretty quiet.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are well dipped and stirred up in next gen juice. The characters look so 
 realistic it's scarey. Plot- Resistance: Fall of Man follows an alternate history where the world 
 did not experience World War II, the Great Depression, or the rise of Communism in Russia. A relative 
 era of peace ensues following the Great War, ending with the revelation of a ruthless and destructive 
 race dubbed the Chimera. The Chimera are first spotted in Russia, which quickly falls to the threat 
 and is then entirely walled off by the Chimera. Behind the wall, the Chimera begin to build their 
 army and invasion infrastructure, while outside the rest of the world speculates about what is 
 happening in Russia, with some speculation about biological or genetic research or weapons. In 
 1951, the year in which the game takes place, England finds itself under invasion. Little is known 
 about the Chimera and their origins remain unclear. Both Asia and Europe have already fallen to 
 the Chimera in short order by this time.
  
  The game follows the story of U. S. Army Ranger Sgt. Nathan Hale. Hale's US Ranger Unit lands in 
 Britain to aid in fending off the Chimera only to be infected with a Chimeran virus and have everyone 
 fall into a coma shortly thereafter. Hale appears to be spared as he is the only one that manages 
 to awaken and becomes aware of the Chimeran plot due to the infection inside of him. As a result, 
 he becomes the key figure in a desperate operation that is launched to try to halt the invasion. 
 The next three days are chronicled in the game as the U. S. and British forces band together in 
 a last-ditch effort to save what is left.
  
  Sound- The music is really entertaining. I look for music in all games and this games music was 
 pretty fair.
  
  Overall- This game should definately be on your PS3 shelf. If you wont get it for the story mode 
 then get it for the online multiplayer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamahl316
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought Resistance: Fall of Man 3 days ago after waiting long time to get it. When i started playing 
 i couldn't believe how good the game was. The storyline is great, gameplay is really fun but the 
 best thing about the game is the online mode. I mean, 40 player online mode, how can you not like 
 it??? And that's not it, absolutely no lag! I've been playing online games for a while now and 
 i think this is really impressive.
  
  The game offers lots of options, single player in 4 difficulties (super human is unlocked when 
 you beat the game though) , co-op so you can play with someone else :) , offline multiplayer (2-4 
 people) and online multiplayer (2-40) , every single mode is fun to play, i can't tell about co-op 
 cause i don't have 2 controllers but everyone seems to like it.
  
  If you own a PS3, this is the game you must have, in fact, if you are a FPS fan get a PS3 to play 
 it :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAboy06
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This was the first game I got with my new PS3, and I have to say, that this is probably the best 
 shooting game ever! Online and offline, this game is fast, fun, and intense. It may get hard at 
 times, but it is just too much fun to get mad at. The graphics are not the best, but there pretty 
 impressive. The AI and physics are next-generation. The enemies are smart and just cool to look 
 at. Resistance does a great job blending close quarter combat with open battlefields. The story 
 is very interesting, even though many things still remain a mystery. The 40 player online is hard 
 but fun and intense. I hope to see many game in this series that are just as good, if not better. 
 When you have just 25% health left, the echoing sound of the howler will send shivers down your 
 spine. I can't wait to play the next Resistance game they make. $60 is a little pricey, but its 
 worth it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 6.8
Date: Jan 16, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  Pros: polished AI; fluid gameplay ( albeit formulaic and repetitive ) ; easy controls &amp; interactivity; 
 intense action throughout an adequate campaign; weapons.
  
  Cons: all the pros aren't enough to dismiss the feeling of d&eacute; j&agrave; vu from start to 
 finish; very boring texturing; low coloring depth, sub-DVD; linear paths; repetitive layouts; saving 
 system.
  
  Most critics eagerly embrace Resistance: Fall of Man as THE best PS3 launch title, and it remains 
 still, though the sum of its parts doesn't quite live up to them taken alone. What about the other 
 launch titles then, does that mean the ''next gen'' console is flawed, awaiting a stronger wave 
 of games? Could only the Blu Ray drive justify the price of admission in the few months following 
 the release? Maybe. One must bear in mind all the technical aspects the PS3 has to offer, waiting 
 to be fully exploited in a year ot two. The launch line-up doesn't really uses more than 30-35 
 % of that power, below what any observer would have reasonably expected even from the first batch. 
 Fortunately, the lack of apparent bugs, the decent AI and a tight gameplay all save the day for 
 Resistance, and for most games this would have been enough to be considered great. However, the 
 graphical results and some constrained features are unexpectedly drowning this shooter......... let's 
 say, not deeply, but in calm waters, as explained below. This review definitely doesn't target 
 fanboys......
  
  Insomniac wittingly put together a gritty, post-WWII decorum melted with alien technology for a 
 convincing retrofuturistic construct being ''realistic'' at the same time. Convincing doesn't mean 
 beautiful and pristine though, as a high definition shooter must be. The story is set in a parallel 
 1951 era, whereas the player acts as an American Sergeant, Hale, helping his squads and Brits to 
 combat the Chimeran forces in England ( Eurasia already being plagued ) . Between the levels, narrated 
 movies ( female voice over of a Brit military ) help at enhancing the story presentation and connectivity. 
 Once in the action, the traditional run &amp; gun mechanics become the planning of the day - should 
 we say days, since the single player campaign spawns the story of said Sergeant from July 11th 
 to 14th. Said campaign can be played co-op, logically at a higher difficulty level. That feature 
 isn't available online.
  
  For addicts of conventional/corridor shooters, the game as an action package deliver the goods 
 for a satisfying experience. Weapon variety and balance are especially well implemented, though 
 the Lark ( rocket launcher ) and the sniper remain scarcely required. Veterans may be apt to play 
 the game with basic rifles and the first Chimeran blaster available. But what about the lack of 
 ''dramatic danger zones'' around the player, no audio punchs when wounded, when the player dies, 
 no rumble ??? Just sudden deaths and a white screen..... Talk about a wasted opportunity here to 
 use the Sixaxis controller at a frantic level. Speaking of sudden deaths, that leads us to the 
 antique if not prehistoric saving system: one save slot, and well sparsed checkpoints. Some might 
 argue such a basic saving set up fits well a ''man's game''; nonetheless the majority of casual 
 gamers will find overly frustrating redoing countless times the hardest sections. Barring that, 
 the intense action itself really shows some of the Halo atmospherics, just to hear enemies hurling, 
 swarming, mesmerizing combined with your shotgun and footsteps inside conduits, tunnels, chambers, 
 ruined streets, etc.....
  
  Now the graphical construct merely display a scaled down HL2 world-like environment, mostly ''realistic'' 
 as stated above, though pretty much boring in essence, driving the player to a tedious claustrophobia 
 over longer sessions. Why? The overused, abused yellowish/tarnish hues rendering the whole visual 
 experience just...... boring, like a softly painted tech chamber in 2000. This lack of vibrant coloring 
 from start to finish, normally a minor if irrelevant issue in most games, here unexpectedly exacerbate 
 a boring visual set up. Games are also for fun; we always expect sci fi games to show some fantasy 
 canevas contrasted enough to feast the eyes. In Resistance, the tamed atmosphere imprinted doesn't 
 help at all its usage really, considering it's not a sim for hardcore strategists - ''only'' a 
 shoot-em-up , yes professionally made, but could have been released a few years ago as a good Halo 
 companion.
  
  Furthermore, the game just looks like a good XBox title ( yes, NOT X360 ) on a recent 42'' HDTV, 
 even if the resolution is not an issue. Not only does the color palette pales in comparison to 
 other high definition formats, the bitrate seems to always stay deeply below the 720p standards. 
 Though the average consumer may not care, for enthusiasts the insult adds to the ''death warmed 
 up'': good 480 DVDs, games and movies alike, can look better than this on either small or big screens. 
 Also, the overall static texturing becomes quite ugly up close ( looks like 1999 ) . Even the user 
 interface in the menus are clunky, again looking pre-2000. It seems the developers concocted an 
 overdue compromise there for a steady 30 fps. Hardcore players wouldn't mind an occasional drop 
 to 20-24 fps for a much better looking 720p game, which among others can be found aplenty on the 
 X360 by the end of 2006. The polygon count is a different topic: all characters and small objects 
 seem to display a good amount of them; however some static structures like pipes &amp; tunnels 
 stay ugly, reminding the same art cuts found in standard definition games.
  
  Generally, critics and the gaming community alike will gladly emphasize about the gameplay over 
 graphics. ''Unfortunately'', Resistance is a pure shooter on a high end console, the gaming genre 
 requiring a vivid state of the art engine to be fully appreciated. It becomes much harder then 
 to be lenient about the visual experience compared to strategy games for example, or RPGs, or puzzles 
 on portables ( even those look better ) , and so forth. From a design standpoint, the leveling has 
 probably the effect on the gameplay Insomniac wanted. A great deal of work has been made with sketches, 
 prints, character design, to be recognised with. Alas, the lack of environmental variety hinders 
 the way people could overlook it to the profit of all the hard work stayed behind the rough coating.
 
  
  On the other hand, there are some good things helping to uphold the replay value that may entice 
 perseverant addicts, such: the intelligence data to collect; skill points required, namely unlocking 
 art packs; new weapons upon the completion of the first campaign. Strangely, some may be bored 
 by the overused theme ( virus outbreak/ alien planetary foothold ensuing ) ; however others may 
 find some new twists within the plot being satisfying enough to enhance their experience, just 
 touting with the plethora of Chimeran creatures or the climactic boss fights.
  
  The audio codecs seem OK all the way long, though the musical score always stay very timid even 
 when triggered. The female voice over during cutscenes sounds professional. Technically again, 
 albeit in a lesser way than the visuals, the audio domain never really achieve to peak in our ears 
 the bitrate offered by the PS3. Deep bass is artificially enhanced while the upper trebles always 
 stay barely audible unless cranking up the volume. That said, channel separation remains interesting 
 enough to admit we have a good 5.1 game, as explosions and ricochets can be heavily experienced 
 in the surrounds.
  
  Why comparing with landmark franchises, when most analysts warn us to avoid doing so in a review? 
 First, most of this game spurs a retrofuturistic melting pot so strongly influenced that a comparison 
 becomes unavoidable, said influences being Halo ( gameplay &amp; atmospherics ) plus Half Life/HL2 
 ( static construct ) . Secondly, any newer game has to tackle with the best of its genre, namely 
 to see where the limits of excellence are within the available technology. The comparison bet is 
 a dangerous one; yet Resistance never reaches the quintessential atmospheric levels of Halo, HL2 
 &amp; Gears of War, nor their artistry riches constantly displayed along a wide variety of environments.
 
  
  As an alternate conclusion, one can almost say Insomniac wanted to make a uber polished shooter 
 &agrave; la Epic/Valve, like very few other developers can. It's a semi-success, without the high 
 end construct we should have hoped on the PS3, meaning the vivid flamboyance required to be close 
 of the aforementioned state of the art engines critically acclaimed on supposedly lesser platforms......... However, 
 Resistance: Fall of Man is a honest try to lay the foundations of a prime shooter franchise that 
 isn't right now the jolting answer to the famed competitors. The table is set for a better sequel. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneIWilly
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 16, 2007 4:36 am PT
Review:  Single Player is awesome with a pretty sweet storyline. Co-op is by far the best though. Playing 
 with someone on coop is awesome just to run and gun. you can also try to beat the different levels 
 in crazy ways after you beat the game. me and my buddy were just running through trying to only 
 use melee. Great Game, It's really the only game I play so far for the PS3 cause there isn't much 
 being offered as of late. Wish there was more videos though... not just pictures. Besides that its 
 great and they could do a lot if they decide to with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirNicoli
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  this game is definetly awesome. great to play with a friend on co-op but you need to have a lot 
 of time to do it. on the hardest difficulty setting, its not that tough, but it gets harder as 
 you go through it. the multiplayer is obviously a key factor to the game, and with 40 people playing 
 at once i havent yet seen a room lag (maybe an individual player here in there) and frame rates 
 are always moving at a great rate. the single player campaign must last at least 10 hours, probaby 
 less if u can just blow through it though. awesome game, almost as good as the socom franchise 
 : D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gmayronne
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 15, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Resistance was probably the reason i bought a ps3 as early as i did, it grabbed my attention just 
 too much. This is definately the showcase ps3 launch game which some may find a little lackluster 
 but it really shines in certain places, particularly the FUN element. Graphically the game looks 
 very nice sporting some very nifty visuals and effects. The enemies have a very organic, nasty 
 look to them and the backgrounds range from boring to mind blowingly cool (most notably towards 
 the middle and end of the game) . The sound is more than decent with a good surround sound backinjg 
 it up. The music can be fairly tense and the sound effects are great (the weapons sound cool) . 
 Control and gameplay-wise i was very impressed, not because it innovates but it takes an old formula 
 and reintroduces it so well that you just play and have fun. The game is just..... well..... f-u-n 
 FUN. Had a blast playing it. Over-all if you have a ps3 then really it would seem like a no-brainer 
 to buy this game, its the best for the console easily, cause honestly most of whats offerred for 
 the ps3 right now is just plain average, and this game is anything but...... average. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsouljah
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 15, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game along with my ps3. i went crazy after i played this game. wit this game u can 
 hardly even tell that the rumble is even gone. the graphics are beautiful and the game play is 
 even better. there are many guns and i like for the fact that you can carry around all of the weapons 
 in the game at once. i8 do have one dissappointment though. the car which is somwhat like halo's 
 warthog is a little boring and when you crash u bounce off the wall. the tank on the other hand 
 is well portrayed and is very cool to drive around. the music in the game fits just right and is 
 very suspensful. i do reccomend this game for ne1. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweet1234
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 15, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  I had Tons of Fun Beating this game with Friends and it is extremely hard even on easy I had my 
 share of deaths... This Game is Something to look at if you don't already have it. But Look into 
 it extremely fun and great graphics. Also the Online Play is great. And I Hate how these reviews 
 have to be 100 words. a aq a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a A A A A A A A A a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a...... I Am From CANADA! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: al721
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  I was actually convinced into buying this game by my friends and i wasn't so sure about it at first. 
 However, this game clearly grows on you. The graphics and sound are amazing while gameplay is solid. 
 The best is the multplayer co-op story mode, have a friend over and you can literally play it for 
 hours! Storyline is pretty solid and overall surroundings of each level is amazing. Online gameplay 
 is good if you know what your doing rather than just giving kills to people. Unique weapons makes 
 this game fresh and enjoyable for a long time. Overall, this game is a must get if you own a PS3! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda590
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Does anyone remember way back in 2005 when Sony wowed us with all of those amazing looking CG videos? 
 Killzone, Motorstorm, Gundam, Fight Night... so many potential blockbusters that looked far too 
 amazing to be real. And, as was expected, several Playstation 3 games have failed to live up to 
 the intensity and graphical promises of that legendary E3 showing. However, one magnificent exception 
 was just released alongside the PS3: Resistance: Fall of Man.
  
  The first time that Resistance was unveiled to the world was back at the previously mentioned E3 
 showing in 2005, under the working title name I-8. (Chosen to signify that it was developer Insomniacs 
 eighth title thus far.) While the I-8 demonstration featured impressive elements, it was largely 
 overshadowed by Sonys CG trailers and gameplay. I find it very interesting and somewhat ironic 
 that the most overlooked game in the PS3s entire library has turned out to be the single best 
 game available for the system. Believe me when I say that Resistance: Fall of Man is a rare gem. 
 This is a launch title, yet it has all of the amazing qualities of a blockbuster that would be 
 expected years after the launch of the PS3.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man takes place in the 1950s, and as soon as the game begins, you learn that 
 World War II never happened, but given the alternative, maybe the Nazis werent so bad after all. 
 As the story goes, a mysterious alien race known as the Chimera has invaded Earth and conquered 
 all of Europe and Asia. What happened to the good old days when aliens just wanted to phone home?
 
  You play the game as Sergeant Nathan Hale, a U. S. Ranger who was dropped into Europe to battle 
 the unknown and deadly Chimera forces. Not a moment after the opening cut scene ends, Hale is immediately 
 thrown into the heat of the battle. After a brief but intense introductory level, Hale becomes 
 infected by a virus carried by the Chimera, and rather than dying (the unfortunate effect bestowed 
 upon all others who come into contact with the virus) , the virus actually makes Hale stronger by 
 giving him some of the Chimeras abilities, most notably the ability to regenerate. For most of 
 the game, youll have a Halo-styled health meter that refills if you take cover for long enough, 
 but your health will only refill to the nearest quarter, meaning youll still have to rely on health 
 packs often.
  The rest of the story in Resistance is somewhat of a letdown. Not every cut scene is animated (some 
 are merely black-and-white slideshows with British narration. Whee.) , and the ones that are rarely 
 serve any purpose beyond setting you up to shoot more Chimera. Determined gamers can pick up well-hidden 
 sheets of intel throughout the game, which reveal bits and pieces of a seemingly deeper back-story, 
 but honestly I would have been more satisfied if the games story was more developed and told through 
 the cut scenes.
  The story in Resistance is certainly the low point. The high point? EVERYTHING else.
  
  At 
 first glance, Resistance looks like it would play like a Call of Duty game with monsters instead 
 of Nazis. If this sounds like your view of the game, please slap yourself. It turns out that Resistance 
 is anything but your average World War II shooter. The gameplay manages to feel surprisingly unique 
 and fresh, yet at the same time it feels comfortably familiar. Imagine a very successful combination 
 of Halo, Call of Duty, and Half-Life. There were even some elements that reminded me of the old 
 Turok games from the N64.
  
  The most outstanding and distinguishing feature of Resistance is, hands down, the absolutely insane 
 weapons at your disposal. In terms of arsenal, this game delivers in spades. From the Bullseye, 
 which allows you to tag enemies and fire balls of plasma that home in on them, to (my personal 
 favorite) the Auger, which shoots through any solid object and allows you to set up a protective 
 barrier that only you can fire through, to the multi-rocket launcher, to the napalm-tossing Dragon, 
 each and every weapon in Resistance screams personality and oozes originality. Even seemingly conventional 
 weapons, such as the shotgun and carbine, feel original and fun to use. Most notable is the Fareye, 
 a sniper rifle that allows you to slow down time and line up satisfying headshots. The developers 
 even went so far as to make the grenades original. Forget plain old frag grenades (although you 
 can use them) . How about Hedgehog grenades, which blasts lethal spikes in all directions? How about 
 Air-Fuel grenades, which make the napalm used in Vietnam look weak in comparison?
  
  Whats truly admirable about the weapons in Resistance is that they go far beyond the level of 
 Wow, that explosion looked cool! Insomniac has masterfully crafted and balanced the games arsenal 
 to the point that they actually factor in to the gameplay to a considerable degree, adding a whole 
 new level of strategy and intensity that Ive never witnessed in a shooter before. In fact, it 
 makes other FPS games feel limp in comparison. I kid you not.
  The only possible downside to the weapon selection? Deciding which weapon to use. The action pauses 
 when youre swapping guns, so dont worry about getting mowed over while youre trying to decide 
 exactly how to slaughter the opposition.
  Its definitely a good thing that youll be packing so much heat by the end of the game, since 
 youre basically a one-man army and will rarely get help from friendly soldiers. Dont get me wrong, 
 youll encounter legions of British (and sometimes American) soldiers throughout the game, but 
 they rarely serve any purpose beyond cannon-fodder.
  
  While gunning down the Chimera is the main focus of the game, you will have a few opportunities 
 to pilot vehicles (which youll use to gun down Chimera) , including a kick ass tank and jeep that 
 are quite reminiscent of Halo. Later on, youll have a chance to pilot some of the Chimeras vehicles 
 as well. Now about those Chimera...
  
  While they may not be the most terrifying monsters ever to grace a video game, the Chimera are 
 definitely a force to be reckoned with. Fighting the same grunts again and again in Resistance 
 would probably get tiring, but fortunately the game features a wide variety of enemies, from tiny 
 bug-like Crawlers, to the horrific and emaciated Grey Jacks, to the simply gargantuan Titans, and 
 a new enemy is thrown at you often enough to keep things from ever getting dull. The constant thrills 
 provided by Resistance can also be credited to the games superb sense of pacing. This is one of 
 those experiences that seems to get better and better as the game progresses, and the final few 
 levels are among the most intense, epic, and infuriatingly difficult ever to appear in an action 
 game... or a video game for that matter.
  
  Im proud to announce that the hilariously enjoyable gameplay of Resistance is, as is expected 
 from the PS3, backed up by some serious eye-candy. Sure, the graphics arent as good as, say, the 
 Killzone demo, but unless youre demanding the absolute best of the best from Resistance, the graphics 
 arent likely to disappoint. It looks simply stunning, especially while running at 720p, with no 
 lag, even when 40 players are running around and blowing each other to pieces! The texture detail 
 is also very impressive; there were some moments when I was facing the floor or wall of a room 
 and I felt as if my TV screen was an open window that I was looking through. It may not add to 
 gameplay, but it did add to the overall enjoyment factor.
  The textures on a wooden floor may be trivial to some gamers, but what certainly matters more is 
 the MASSIVE size of the games environments. While the levels dont show off their true potential 
 early on, as the game goes on, the environments grow more and more compelling, and they shift from 
 usual World War II era locales to creepy and far more interesting alien environments. I found myself 
 stopping and staring at my surrounding multiple times (while getting shot at, I might add.) . These 
 locations come with their share of great effects as well; theres always enough going on in the 
 background to keep the player immersed. Just FYI, the snow effects in the final stretch of the 
 game are downright sexy. Resistance also features a good amount of physics, and while the physics 
 dont quite factor into the gameplay much, theyre still fun.
  
  The sound design of Resistance is entirely on par with the graphics. A good amount of attention 
 was put into the music; Resistance has a very good original orchestral score that reflects the 
 mood of the game perfectly. The voice acting is very solid, and while there isnt a lot of dialogue, 
 its nice to play a game that doesnt make me cringe when the characters speak. Weapon sound effects 
 are nicely done, and fit in nicely when combined with the screams, explosions and other assorted 
 chaos on the battlefield. Once youve had enough experience, youll most likely be able to tell 
 what weapon a distant enemy is using merely by the sound effects. From the ever-present ambient 
 noises in each and every level, to the unnerving grunts, screeches and roars of the Chimera, the 
 sound design suggests true quality.
  
  Resistance is truly a masterpiece, but surely a game of its caliber must not last very long, and 
 even if it does, there cant be that many reasons to go back and play it again. Right? Wrong. Again, 
 this superbly crafted shooter doesnt fail to amaze. There are a couple unlockable difficulty modes, 
 but multiple play-throughs will also reveal new weapons and bits of story that were not encountered 
 the first time through. Beyond that, Resistance can be played by two players via a co-op mode, 
 and also supports splitscreen multiplayer. (The co-op is not online, which may bother some gamers, 
 but to be honest I enjoy co-op much more when playing it with a friend.) But the real attraction 
 in terms of replay value is unquestionably the online multiplayer mode, which supports up to 40 
 players. 40. Freaking 40. With classic modes like deathmatch and team deathmatch, coupled with 
 new modes such as the meltdown game, youre probably going to be spending a long, LONG time playing 
 Resistance online. Connecting to games is fast and easy, and did I mention that the games are lag-free? 
 Can you not already feel the awesomeness of this game radiating from your PS3?
  
  Needless to say, Resistance: Fall of Man is a resounding success. It features everything that has 
 made FPS games great over the years, and then improves and expands upon them in ways that is almost 
 surreal for a launch title. This is easily the best launch title for the Playstation 3, but Id 
 hate to understate exactly how awesome it is, so Ill just settle for saying that its one hell 
 of an outstanding shooter and a must-play. Should you buy a PS3 for it? Thats your choice. However, 
 if you do buy a PS3, you sure as hell need to buy this game.
  
  PROS AND CONS
  
  PROS
  + Intense, incredible gameplay with terrific weapons
  + Graphics rock
  + Polished multiplayer 
 and co-op
  + Did I mention those weapons...?
  
  CONS
  - The story could be better
  - Can be frustrating at times
  - No online co-op
  - Might make you forget that you need to 
 eat / sleep / urinate 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alday_316
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 14, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Resistance The Fall of Man is THE Halo for Sony's expensive PlayStation 3 computer entertainment 
 system. While it may not reach levels as high as Gears of War, Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Vegas and 
 Halo, it does justice for Sony in every way possible. Killzone has nothing on Resistance. Resistance 
 may also be the finest 1st person shooter to ever launch with a game console ever! The graphics 
 are out of this world, sound is really impressive (the moans and groans of the aliens are actually 
 a bit scary) , Gameplay is a high point as well, if you ask me (think of Halo with a bit more options!) 
 and everything else in between is very satisfying. In all, if youre looking for THE game to buy 
 your PlayStation 3 computer entertainment system, buy Resistance The Fall of Man. You WONT regret 
 it one bit ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jigsaw_McGraw
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 14, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  Launch games don't tend to be very good, and thats y people usually hold off on buying systems. 
 Well I wanted to be part of the next gen. so I bought myself a PS3. This game is probably the best 
 launch game I have ever played. Sure it has some issues, but that is to be expected with the first 
 round of games that come out for a new system. It looks pretty good, even on my non-hd tv... but 
 its nothing to gawk at like a Gears of War, but as I said, its a launch game. This game does show 
 some serious potential in what the PS3 can do. If you first start playing the game on hard, the 
 first level will be abnormally difficult. The selection of weapons does give the game a bit of 
 strategy, but mostly it is run and gun (if you can survive doing it) . The physics of the game are 
 quite nice, and thats what I love about next gen games. I must add that shooting glass in this 
 game is pretty sweet and I think games need to adopt that, because the physics for it were very 
 realistic. Sound quality is especially good when there is surround sound... it gets your heart pumping. 
 From what I have seen so far (not yet completed) , I like. I have not yet tried out the online, 
 but I am sure I would have given it a higher score if I had already... but if you are just in for 
 the single player experience my review will be more helpful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smurfman1189
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Like i said this game is freaking awesome and is a must buy for the ps3! This is the first game 
 i got and it is very impressive to be a lauch game. I think it is one of the best out for ps3. 
 I have played it through all 4 modes of easy, medium, hard, and superhuman. The interesting part 
 about this game is that it changes through the modes as in the harder you get the better and more 
 the weapons you get, and more the aliens you see and how hard they are. This is a game that you 
 can feel comfrontable not renting and go straight to buying it, because it is that good and i'm 
 a usual guy at renting them first so you can trust my judgement on this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGamemannn
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 14, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of man obviously has a sequel to it because you don't know if you're dead or not, 
 but before I give you the lowdown on this game, I give you the whole good and bad outline:
  
  Good: Perfect graphics, excellent presentation, interesting plot, good first person shooter
 
  
  Bad: You can finish the game in like five hours, clumsily levels of difficulty, a few noticeable 
 plot holes. You start of the game with a stunning situation. Europe and Asia have both been conquered 
 by aliens known as Chimera, and now they are targeting the United Kingdom. You play as Nathan Hale, 
 an American solider who attempts to enhance The United Kingdom's army forces. The basic plot isn't 
 to complex, therefore making this review shorter. You end up killing thousands of aliens in order 
 to destroy the reactor rods at the end of the game. This is a great game, but can sadly be finished 
 in five hours. If there isn't a sequel, there will be even more plot holes and things that happened 
 that were not necessary. Here and there controls are sloppy but, in the hands of a REAL gamer can 
 be easily controlled. Overall.... I recommend this game, despite its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seanny12
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Its hard to shed light on the PS3 because of all the hatred it is getting from gamers. Resistance 
 Fall of Man sheds the light on the PS3. It actually gives people a reson to buy one. I mean you 
 can not go wrong with a 40 player online game and a game that has one of the most interesting stories. 
 Resistance offers one of the best gaming experiences by scarring the crap out of you when a Chimera 
 jumps out at you from behind a wall. While the graphics are not really next-gen material, they 
 are still better than par. The gameplay is not original but it is easy to learn so you will be 
 blasting aliens off the ground sooner than later. Lasting appeal is what struck me the most after 
 i beat the game. You can go back to any area you were at during the story. Also, the second time 
 you go through the game, more weapons can be discovered, plus a whole bunch of other bonus material. 
 Resistance is definitely one of the better games i have played and i think others should also experience 
 the thrilling story about Nathan Hale and his attempt to save mankind from the unkown Chimera from 
 a differennt world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSFan27285
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 13, 2007 9:48 pm PT
Review:  From the multiplayer to the campaign this games got it all. If you have a ps3, a craving to shoot 
 stuff, an itchy trigger finger, this is the game for you. Graphics are superb, best out for the 
 ps3 (as of Qt. 4 of 2006-whenever a game with better graphics comes out) . As for AI, its grand, 
 much smarter than most games, enemies will wait, take cover, loop around, hide, assault and work 
 together to kill you. Ive played through this campaign twice, and constantly online with it, and 
 I am still addicted and dont want to put it down. The games weapons are fun, and each one has its 
 own unique ALT-fire, such as the rocket launcher has Air-brake, and the sniper rifle has Focus (slows 
 down time for you to pop a shot) . Even my xbox fan boy of a friend agrees, its the most addicting 
 games in years, you wont be putting it down any time soon. Multi-player is great fun, never have 
 I encountered a game with over-powering people (even when i first got it) , since it searches for 
 similar skill ranks. This is a must have! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth-slayer
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  Resistance may not be the best shooter I have ever played, it is definitely the best I have played 
 on a console in awhile. Resistance: Fall of Man takes place in a alternate 1951 Great Britain, 
 which has been overrun by the terrifying Chimera, which are apparently mutated humans infected 
 with a virus originating from Siberia. As American soldier, Nathan Hale you must join the British 
 Resistance and help them defeat the Chimeran invaders.
  
  The game takes you through several British locales such as Manchester, York and London where you 
 will find yourself fighting alongside your AI allies or alone. One thing this game does that few 
 other FPS have done is throw so many enemies at you at once, in one battle near the begining of 
 the game there are about 40 enemies and allies fighting on screen at once with bullet tracers and 
 laser going all over the place. This game can be extremely intense at times leading me to die alot. 
 But unlike some games where this is happens the game never seems frustrating as the core gameplay 
 is so fun. Graphically this game is amazing considering it is merely a first gen title and it makes 
 one wonder how powerful the PS3 really is. The textures on the Chimera are especially impressive, 
 with there gleaming armor and air tubes sticking out of their backs (which when you shoot them, 
 begining to squirt out air wildly) .
  
  The multiplayer is easily matches the single player, with a good variety of game types and a stat 
 tracking feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyberNeil
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jan 13, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  Anyone who thinks this game deserves a 9+ score should play Gears of War (GoW) first to experience 
 what next-gen gaming is all about. Resistance: Fall of Man (RRoM) is simply a tired Doom style 
 run and gun FPS with good graphics. The game does nothing to advance the FPS genre. GoW, on the 
 other hand, is a killer app in every way, and stands as the benchmark for next-gen gaming. The 
 control mechanics and fluid animation subtly immerses the player into the game. One must stand 
 back to realize how well the player has been integrated into the environment due to the ease of 
 the intuitive interface, camera angles, and physics between the player model his surroundings.
 
  
  GoW is far superior in the areas of graphics and sound as well. RFoM is a good game, but is by 
 no means a game to base the purchase of a console on. I wish Insomniac had created the next-gen 
 Ratchet &amp; Clank instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: machoa14
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 13, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  Many people forget to grasp just how important this game was and is. If it were not for this game 
 the PS3 launch would have been terrible. Most people also forget that it was developed on very 
 short notice and with limited knowledge of the PS3 system. Even with this Insomniac has made a 
 great game. The gameplay is pretty standard but does not have a tangible flaw. The AI is smart 
 but not cunning, if you just charge in you will die if you stay in one spot you will die. There 
 are paths that seem obvious, never take those paths; there will usually be a ramp or walkway that 
 will let you get the bead on the enemy. The one thing that is different is there are these pauses 
 between battles that really break up the pace nicely because the pace of battle in this game is 
 fast a relentless. Anyone who has played a FPS in the past should feel right at home. This is one 
 of the few games to take advantage of the SIXAXIS function of the PS3. When a menial, leaper or 
 howler grabs you, you must shake the controller violently throw them off. This is something that 
 never gets old and really adds to the in your face scary feel of the game. As far as shooters go 
 this is a pretty scary shooter. You do not fly out of your seat but your eyes jump the first time 
 you see an angel up close. Another great part of this game is the aliens. My personal favorite 
 is the widowmaker which is a giant spider that shoots explosive goop and tries to spear you to 
 death with its pointy legs, so watch out. The best part about this game is hands down the weapons. 
 Coming from the people that brought you Ratchet and Clank you know that there are going to be some 
 crazy weapons. My personal favorite is the Bullseye. This gun lets you fire a homing tag at you 
 enemy that guides all your fire at his direction. You also can fire a tag at the ground and empty 
 half the clip into a devastating proximity mine. It is this kind of intuitiveness that really sets 
 this game apart from the rest. If I had to pick a bone with this game it would have to be the graphics. 
 While they are nice they are no where near as good as most next-gen games. The sound is great. 
 Whether it be the sound of your carbine firing or the eerie cry of the howlers, the sound in this 
 game really does a great job setting the tone or amplifying the intensity of battle. Once you finish 
 the great campaign which by the way actually has a decent story, the multiplayer is the real stare 
 of the show. In my opinion this is a great answer to Halo online if not a successor. The online 
 is set up very intuitively so if you want to play in a ranked game it is just a click away or if 
 want to search for a specific type of game that is equally as simple. Once you start playing you 
 will be in for a surprise, this is one of the most fast paced and visceral online shooters to date. 
 Oh, this is not just 4v4 try 20vs20. It is insane to see so many people on screen at once there 
 is no experience like it except for maybe battlefield 2. There are also many different types of 
 modes such as meltdown (capture the base) , CTF, conversion, team death match and death match. On 
 top of the multiple modes there are a plethora of maps to choose from each of which is very unique 
 and tailors to certain game types. All this comes together to create one of the most robust online 
 multiplayer experiences ever. If there is any thought of getting a PS3 in your mind, then this 
 is the game to buy and if you already have a PS3 get this game asap. Even though $700 is a lot 
 for a system and one game trust me it is well worth it. If this is the type of game that comes 
 out at launch then imagine what the future will bring! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AngryLawman
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 12, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  I'm in my early 30's, so my review is coming from a different perspective than many of the others. 
 First of all, I don't have the time to get into multi player as much as I would like. I did play 
 around on-line for a bit. It was a fun experience. I didn't notice any lag or dropped connections. 
 Most of my annoyances came from fellow gamers. No offense to the younger guys, but once you reach 
 a certain age you don't want to play with trash talking teens anymore. I went through that phase 
 years ago, so I know it's natural though.
  
  As for the single player experience, I wasn't that impressed at first. I've had my 360 since launch, 
 so I'm used to the HD gaming experience. The graphics are great, but not revolutionary.
  
  Also, the storyline and combat didn't impress me much at first either. I just kind of felt like 
 there was nothing new here. However, since I had nothing else to play on my PS3 (and my gf was 
 nearby and eager to see me enjoying the x-mas gift she gave me) , I kept going. The story started 
 to suck me in, and I found the combat and game experience to improve dramatically after the first 
 level. Obviously, RFOM draws heavily on other games for story and gaming. However, it brings together 
 elements that I recognize from other great games and puts them together very well.
  
  The cut scenes are well rendered, and just long enough to advance the story and not frustrate you 
 by being overly long. After you view them for the first time you can skip them as well. That's 
 a small feature that I love! (The final boss battle in Gears of War took me a few attempts to beat, 
 and having to sit through the cut scene intro to the final battle over and over was really annoying. 
 So I appreciate small features like that.)
  
  After I completed the single player mission, I actually went back to replay it at a harder level. 
 This is something I rarely ever do anymore. As you get older, you have less free time to play...... and 
 you have way more $$ to buy games, so you generally have more games competing for your limited 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanDude13
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  Resistance : Fall of Man, it just sounds cool don't it. But that would make sense because it is 
 cool, damn cool. This is one of the most intense first person shooters I've played in a loooong 
 time. You're thrown right in to this classic alien vs human battle for ultimate supremacy over 
 the earth and other such stuff and all that dealio. You see the reason this game is so good is 
 the non stop freakin action in this thing. On top of that you've got the awesome graphics, cool 
 aliens that vary in all shapes and sizes, unique guns of both human and alien origin, vast battle 
 torn enviromnents, some kinda spooky parts, a but kickin soldier on the edge and of course british 
 people. If the graphics and gameplay don't get ya then there's always the crazy online play. I 
 mean up to 40 people, it's shear insanity. It's an all around great game and I hope to see more 
 like this on the ps3. Perfect 10!!
  AHHHHHHHHH YEAAAAAHHHHHHHHH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StarFox2892
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  For those who purchased a PlayStation 3 for their own gaming experience and not for revenue on 
 an online auction have the opportunity to play one of the best first-person shooters in years. 
 Throughout my experience with Resistance I knew that it defiantly compared to some of the best 
 shooters in the past including Half-Life, Fear, and Call of Duty. It takes some of the best features 
 from each of these games and organizes a world that shouldn't be missed by PlayStation 3 owners. 
 Resistance might be the only admirable exclusive PlayStation 3 game for some time, and if you're 
 anticipating on buying a PlayStation 3, Resistance is a must have. Resistance's storyline is set 
 in a substitutive reality. It's the 1950's, but not the hip culture rock/pop days. World War II 
 never took place, and petrifying the eastern world in place of Nazis is a frightening race of aliens 
 known as the Chimera. The Chimera have all but detained Asia and most of Europe. The only hope 
 for humanity seems to be in the hands of the U. S. Army's Nathan Hale, a brave but speechless soldier 
 who instead lets his guns do the chatting. With a few surprises avoided, it should be said that 
 you probably shouldn't be playing Resistance for an excellent storyline, but rather for the amusing 
 game play upon you. Resistance's 30 levels are among the most detailed and largest environments 
 to be seen in a game today. As Hale you'll fight endless amounts of Chimera forces in torn cities, 
 damp Chimera caves, and large European fields. There are more than eight weapons to take out the 
 multiple kinds of Chimera located in each level. Resistance: Fall of Man isn't equipped with a 
 pistol, though all eight of the weapons you'll find in your first play-through are extremely useful 
 at several points through out the game. Each gun also allows a secondary fire mode. You'll start 
 the game with the dependable M5A2 Carbine Rifle, which has plenty of range to take out enemies 
 from a far range. A very useful gun, the Bulls Eye, allows you to shoot around corners and from 
 behind cover at uncovered enemies. The Rossmore 236 is a shotgun with a powerful shot that blasts 
 any enemy to the ground. The Auger lets you shoot shells through walls, and through each concrete 
 barrier the round becomes even more fatal. Even more interesting is the XR-003 Sapper that allows 
 you to set mines throughout a room that can be on enemy contact. Resistance's also has a nice variety 
 of grenades including, the standard fragmentation grenade, backlash, the gruesome, and the spiky 
 hedgehog grenade. The game benefits strongly by having A. I. that will easily execute you if you 
 choose to relax and remain under cover. They'll spread apart. They'll get into superior positions. 
 They'll run from your grenades. Theyll hide and regain health. They'll track you until one group 
 is on the floor, dead as meat. The average enemy, the Hybrid, is a widespread rival throughout 
 the game. Up close creatures called Menials will slowly shadow you through rooms, confidentially 
 torturing your helpless character while you shake the SIXAXIS panicking to wave off the creepy 
 enemy. Grey Jacks will run at outrageous speeds to slice at you with their claws. Resistance's 
 Crawlers are annoying and irritating, as they burst out of nests or crawl outwardly out of nowhere 
 to dash your position and overwhelm you. Every Chimera is alarming and can take you out if you 
 don't use good strategy, take benefit of each weapon, and gain knowledge to fight well in your 
 environment. There are several highly entertaining vehicle sequences. Driving tanks and jeeps provides 
 an easier way out, but its a pleasure running over groups of the Chimera race. The single-player 
 campaign is an extensive one. It was made very repayable by unlocking weapons and even secrets 
 that can be earned by discovering Skill Points. Skill Points are earned by doing an accomplishment 
 during the game. In example, when you find the sniper rifle you can earn points if you fire the 
 heads of several Hybrids. On top of all of this, there's a complete online multiplayer system that 
 allows 40 players to participate in six diverse game modes. A nice extra is that you can decide 
 between human characters or Chimera characters, and each race has special strengths. The Chimera 
 can go in a rage mode where they're more destructive than normal, while humans can dash away from 
 approaching enemies and bullets. PS3s visual capabilities are shown well with Resistance, with 
 its extremely-detailed environments, animations, imposing and complex character models, and well-done 
 theatrical sequences. Guns like the rocket launch and sniper rifle look incredibly detailed, with 
 gloss figures. The fatal Chimera replicas are alone worth praise. Flaming explosive effects look 
 as real as can be, especially on high-definition televisions. The sound effects clearly come out 
 of the speakers as proper action- and emotion-based music will fill in as a background. The music 
 that plays while enjoying the game fits in perfectly, as its typical war music. All the voice-ins 
 are great, as they're different people speaking for each different character introduced in the 
 game. There were a few annoying times throughout the campaign where checkpoints seemed to spread 
 out. It can also be frustrating on keeping a good amount of health at all times, as your bar doesnt 
 refill fully after taking a break. More healing pots would have been a nice addition to spread 
 around more of the maps. Insomniac has confirmed itself for years with their Ratchet and Clank 
 franchise that they are one of the finest Playstation developers. They have proven themselves that 
 they have a future for first-person shooters, and a positive chance to make a sequel. If you have 
 a Playstation 3, Resistance is without a doubt the game to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDefenseGod
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The game gets better as it goes on, as to be expected, but especially in this case. A great variety 
 of weapons, and some great FPS elements. Some nice co-op as well. The only difficult parts of the 
 game are very difficult, and include the first, third, and fourth Stalkers, as well as a lvl called 
 On the Ice , where you must navigate through a subway.
  
  For the serious review...
  Gameplay: Solid gameplay, great once you get used to it, which doesn't take very long. The ability 
 to heal is essential to victory in campaign. Don't just rush into battle at all times. You play 
 as Nathan Hale, sergeant of the First Rangers, and one of the only American's in the Britain resistance 
 against the Chimera. Using a few of the best Ratchet and Clank mechanics and features, including 
 skill points and a weapon quick select, you choose your weapons, and basically play through a standard 
 FPS, but it's much more well-done.
  Graphics: Once you see three cinema's, two words. Next-gen. Done.
  Sound: The actual BGM is great, 
 and always suits the current situation, some of which I just don't like.
  Value: High. People love this game. They aren't obsessed with it, but they love it.
  My Tilt: 
 High. Great game, but of course has some flaws. It must be given credit considering it's a launch 
 title. If you have a PS3 as of now, you must get this game. Simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FFF4N4T1C
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 5:57 pm PT
Review:  A great game for the launch of the PS3 is the main thought with this game.
  
  The gameplay in this game isn't the best I've ever witnessed in a shooter, but is addictive nonetheless. 
 One of the most valuable aspects of this game is the free online multiplayer play, which is probably 
 one of the greatest aspects that allows this game to maintain excellent value. The storyline is 
 great and all, but the storyline and gameplay isn't quite enough to justify the games ability online.
 
  
  The graphics in this game are definately very good, allowing one to have a wide view of whats in 
 front of the, seeing every detail near and far, unlike Gears of War, which mostly sticks to a near-sighted 
 perception instead of opening up into large landscapes. Despite this, I feel that the Playstation 
 3 is capable of much more powerful graphics than what is displayed in this game, and that hopefully 
 gamemakers will begin to utilize that soon.
  
  The sound is this game is decent. Not something I'll remember after this year, but not bad.
  
 
  The value of this game in all is great for its online play; however, if you plan to play it offline 
 exclusively, you might want to reconsider. Great launch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newoldrenegade
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing, its long and very addictive. i cant believe gamespot gave it a 8.5 it should 
 have been a 9.6 just like gears of war. the graphics are amazing, especially if you have the HDMI 
 hooked up. and the online is the easiest and fastest online ive ever played, take less than 5 mins 
 to get on and start playing. the free-for-all is my favorite. definitley a must buy. i just got 
 a ps3 and this game and its sooo addictive, and i dont have to pay for online like 360. i just 
 hooked my ps3 up and went online over the wireless network. thats what got me with the ps3, no 
 monthly fees, and no wires. i wont be playing my 360 anymore for awhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake44
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 10, 2007 7:02 am PT
Review:  This was the first game I purchased for the PS3 and I was not disappointed. This was not only an 
 excellent launch title, but is a wonderful game. The campaign was great. It kept you on your toes 
 at all times. Resistance never gets to easy, which is good in my opinion. The game stayed challenging 
 all the way through. When you thought that you killed everything, and that you will have sometime 
 to recover and gather ammo.... you get hit by a swarm of enemies. The whole campaign was great; 
 a lot of action, great sounds, awesome graphics, good story, and solid gameplay. I would definitely 
 recommend this to any FPS fan. This is easily one of the best FPS available, and will one day be 
 a classic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnderHell
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 10, 2007 12:17 am PT
Review:  Where Am I?
  Consider yourself in the middle of a battle field where two huge metal spiders are crawling around 
 a snowy city while an opposing enemy throws a grenade sending hundreds of needles in every direction. 
 Some piercing its own allies and others killing your comrades. You take your gun raise it at the 
 enemy spider and before you can even get off a shot the metal giant have already turned its turrets 
 on you as well as the other 30 to 40 chimera in the general vicinity. You start firing aimlessly 
 while stepping backwards throwing an air fuel grenade which emits a large area of gas into the 
 air around a squad of 5-10 chimera. The gas then lights and the entire squad are burned black while 
 the stalkers slowly walk through the smoke. You then take out another weapon in your ever expanding 
 arsenal and use the alternate fire to create an electric barrier in front of you. The Stalkers 
 Ammo is repelled off of the electrical shield while you turn around and run into an abandoned house 
 hold. From their, you get behind a cracked brick wall and begin to fire your weapons shots directly 
 through the bricks and into the cockpit of the robotic spider. You look to your left and you see 
 Laark ammo on the floor. Loading your cannon you hide behind the wall and wait for the fire to 
 stop. The stalkers turret has overheated and you take this opportunity to come peak your head outside 
 the window and fire off two rockets directly into the body of the beast. It explodes, filling the 
 air with smoke and metal legs all over the disassembled city block. Immediately you see a golden 
 shine on the ceiling above you. Natural Instincts force you to take four steps backward as golden 
 beams of light drip from the ceiling like rain. Quickly using the same munitions you fire your 
 own shots into the ceiling and suddenly things are oddly silent. It then takes you less then a 
 second to analyze what's going on. Coming to the realization that you have dozens of chimera outside 
 of the building shooting inwards, an auger carrying chimera on the second floor of your supposed 
 safe spot, and now a large organic spider breaking open a fence to your left spewing large bubbles 
 of acid. You think about your comrades and if it's possible they could help, but to your dismay 
 you see that they're all busy holding off the western front where even more chimera and another 
 stalker waits...
  
  Story
  These are the types of situations that Resistance constantly puts you into during the campaign 
 and all need to be handled strategically based on the weapons that you carry. How much you may 
 or may not like the story of Resistance is up to your personal preference really. If you enjoy 
 being a detective and finding clues to further explain a rather cryptic storyline then this game 
 is perfect for you. But on the other hand if you like stories that reveal everything straight up 
 and puts everything on the table then this story may not be for you. Basically instead of World 
 War II occurring many events that did not happen in our own reality lead up to a large scale chimeran 
 attack beginning in Russia to eventually snowball its way to Britain. The only place in Europe 
 the Chimera has yet to either convert or completely destroy. Now chimera's origins, reasons for 
 attack and relations to another strange yet unseen group are explained somewhat in the story, but 
 you'll find most of this information through Intel somewhat hidden within each stage. Nathan Hale 
 the stories hero came from Americas attempt to help out Europe in this growingly impossible war. 
 As the story gets to the halfway point of the first level something strange happens to Hale, which 
 results in him gaining the positive attributes of your average chimeran soldier. One being regenerative 
 powers due to the Chimera's high metabolism, and the other is increasingly fast reflexes and reactions. 
 The story is well put together and done in a History Channel Esque way of narration by a British 
 female commanding officer.
  
  Game Play
  The game play mechanics are of course that of your average first person shooter. The default controls 
 (everything is customizable) have you shooting with R1. Secondary fire is done with L1, while L2 
 is for crouching and R2 is for either bringing up a weapon switch menu by holding down the button 
 or a quick switch by simply tapping it. During the single player campaign the game pauses when 
 you hold down R2 to change your weapons, but if you play Co op through the campaign, then the pause 
 is taken off meaning less time to really sit and think what weapon is best for that certain scenario. 
 Controls are tight and you'll never see a bullet fly past your head and still damage you or the 
 other way around. Your fire will show its affect on the chimera wherever your bullet pierces skin, 
 clothing, or armor. Resistance also offers more then one way to handle the various battles and 
 you find yourself actually using every means of attack you obtain out of pure necessity. It's too 
 many times in shooters where I find myself using only one weapon exclusively when I have an array 
 of weapons under my belt, but luckily Insomniac has addressed this problem by including weapons 
 that are all useful. Don't let the standard Assault Rifle, Shotgun, and sniper rifle fool you. 
 There is a healthy supply of weaponry here and all are fun, useful and highly original. Each gun 
 has a good purpose and it's up to you as Nathan Hale to really figure what each gun is best for 
 and trust me... each gun will either save you on many various occasions or provide you with an experience 
 you will never forget.
  
  As for other game play features. Resistance offers offline cooperative play with a friend, which 
 adjusts the difficulty level by adding more enemies, tougher AI, and other surprises. An offline 
 death match providing matches for up to 4 players. Unfortunately there are no bots in this game 
 so you will have to venture online for the famed 40 player battles everyone's been talking about. 
 Oh and trust me you don't want to miss out on the online play. I don't want to spoil anything from 
 the game, but there are also vehicles. Vehicles that are extremely easy to use and provide the 
 player with a whole lot of fun. Basically things get intense and that's what Resistance will be 
 known for to the players who have completed the game.
  
  FrameRate?
  As for lag and glitches, I must say I've seen close to none. Actually I've never experienced lag, 
 but if I must say something negative then I'll say that your comrades Ai could use some work. They 
 are not nearly as intelligent as your enemies and they more or less are cannon fodder. The game 
 offers things called Hero Moments where you can actually save a soldiers life, but eventually they 
 will most likely die anyway.
  
  Environment
  Now the environments are always different with every level and provide the player with an experience 
 that will not only cause complete immersion, but also make them look in awe as snow falls and over 
 40 soldiers battle it out on a burned and close to completely destroyed avenue. At the same time 
 large metal spiders trot around trees and over rubble. Now I've yet to see level designs this impressive 
 in a long time, and the variations in level designs are increasingly impressive as well. You will 
 start the game with two levels very similar to what you'd expect to see in a World War II game, 
 but immediately after that you will be thrust into a dark and claustrophobic abandoned pier covered 
 in smog and alien architecture. The game can be completely quiet then down the hallway of a dark 
 corridor a shadow will sprint by. The game will let out a suspenseful screech and from there you 
 will be left in silence. You will actually be afraid to turn corners and the game does a great 
 job of creating these growing emotions through its various battlefields. Levels span from huge 
 all out wars in a destroyed city, to abandoned military bases where a flashlight is needed simply 
 to navigate its long hallways and disturbing laboratories. I mean you even get to walk through 
 dark subway cars with some being at weird angles providing a very cool level.
  
  The sounds of explosions and footsteps further your immersion into the game. You will hear faint 
 screams in the smaller areas and lines of huge explosions from the larger maps. Sound will often 
 save your life as well as each gun makes a specific noise that will basically let you know someone's 
 there and they're using a specific gun giving you time to choose the right weapon to take down 
 this opposing threat.
  
  Graphics are not bad at all due to the games environments. But sometimes you will likely notice 
 some textures looking rather simplistic compared to the rest of the games beautiful scenery. Character 
 models are amazing, but sometimes these piles of pebbles just look so jagged that I want to take 
 a pencil and shade the poor rocks in myself. Anyway, other then the very rare low textured pile 
 of rocks you will stand in awe at the presentation of the battlefields and claustrophobic indoor 
 fights. In my opinion I see the graphics getting better and better as the game progresses. Each 
 level is more visually stunning then the last and the game simply becomes more and more exciting 
 as you continue on the 10 to 15 hour journey.
  
  Negatives
  Negatives. Every game has them and this one doesn't get by without a few cuts and bruises. Now 
 if I were to sit here and name off every fault Resistance has then I'd simply be nit picking. Because 
 honestly this game doesn't have many faults. But I must name some for the sake of this review and 
 I'll try my best to list them here. Okay so your comrades Ai is plain dumb. They barely help you 
 at all, except for the fact they sometimes direct enemy fire away from you for about a split second. 
 The graphics are not the best in the industry and the lack of online cooperative play brings a 
 tear to my eye. This games campaign would shine brighter then the sun if it had online cooperative. 
 It almost seems like it could have been a need and not a simple want. And last, but not least the 
 hybrids, although always seeming to put up a different fight are used a bit much throughout the 
 game. They are definitely a fun enemy to fight, but Insomniac could have used more of its huge 
 variety of enemies during the single player.
  
  Are you going to want to play this over?
  Replay ability... The game is definitely one you'll want to show off to your friends. This is the 
 type of game that you will invite a friend over to try and complete the co op campaign with. It 
 is highly addictive and will provoke you to replay the game the moment you finish the last level. 
 It actually includes hidden weapons that were not available on your first play through and other 
 information that could help you learn more about the games story line. Another reason to the games 
 replay ability is it's interesting and fun to use weaponry. Even the grenades are extremely fun. 
 I won't go into details about the guns, but I will say that every gun is worth using and each have 
 a purpose. You could certainly choose to the go through the game on easy with the standard assault 
 rifles, but if you wanted to try the game on medium or any of the other higher difficulties then 
 you will without a doubt sit down and learn exactly how to use these weapons that mean the difference 
 between life and death. Simply learning the uses of each gun adds replay value, and on top of that 
 you get more guns after playing through a second time. Every weapon has a secondary fire option 
 and often times help make the gun what it is. On top of the awesome weaponry, you will discover 
 that the Ai is not stupid. They will duck behind cover and in some cases flank you and your squad 
 or cooperative partner. You will not be able to sit behind cover forever because they will have 
 one chimera shoot the place where you might want to stick your head out to fire while another chimeran 
 soldier runs behind you and beats you down with his rifle. I also was in many firefights where 
 the enemy would throw an unprecedented amount of grenades. I continued to die pathetically, but 
 instead of becoming frustrated with the game I was actually excited instead.
  
  Online
  A huge factor about Resistance that really makes the game stand out, is the online portion. Insomniac 
 really pulled out all the stops here and created a game that could keep you busy for weeks, let 
 alone months and possibly years to come. There are two types of online games, ranked and unranked. 
 Battles fought from the beginning of a match, which most of the time consists of two rounds give 
 the player experience points that help him level up to different ranks allowing the player to unlock 
 multiple helmets, heads, skins, accessories and more to individualize your online avatar. Modes?
 
  There are 6 modes of play including Breach, which is a 40 man game about capturing nodes closer 
 to the opposing team's reactor so that you can spawn closer every time you die so that you can 
 eventually destroy your target. Meltdown, which is a smaller version of breach. Conversion, a spin 
 on the standard death match mode where every player starts as a human, and if you are killed then 
 you re spawn as a chimer then if you die from there its over. Team Death match, which is your standard 
 kill anyone on the opposing team and gain points from simply taking out your target or assisting 
 others in taking out a target. Death match, which is the same as team death match except your alone. 
 And last, but not least Capture the Flag, which has one team try to capture the flag and bring 
 it back to their own base. In the unranked games, all those modes are customizable with the ability 
 to take certain guns out of the mix, adjust the amount of points it takes to win, decide whether 
 you want humans vs. chimera, chimera vs. chimera, humans vs. humans, or even humans and chimera, 
 vs. humans and chimera. Maps
  The maps can also be scaled to be large or small depending on the amount of players in a game. 
 Maps range from allowing 8, 16, 32 and 40. Humans and Chimera have different abilities that are 
 activated with the L2 button. Humans can sprint by tapping the L2 button, but they have no aimer 
 during the sprint, while Chimera can go into a rage mode that allows them to see life forms in 
 the shape of glowing purple silhouettes through walls and other barriers. Humans also have a radar 
 that allows them to see enemies on the map, while chimera's firepower increases when they go into 
 rage mode, but overheat and lose life if they stay in rage mode too long.
  Balance?
  The game is wonderfully balanced and I've used many guns online in many different ways to counter 
 many guns that I thought were cheap, but turned out to have weaknesses. I've also had situations 
 where I thought I was being cheap to only discover that someone had used a gun that I thought was 
 weak to completely dominate me. Resistance Players often say that the Chimera's rage make it very 
 difficult for a human to win in a gun fight due to the Chimera's increase in firepower, but while 
 the Chimera may be strong in rage mode, the humans have infinite sprint meaning a very easy time 
 in capture the flag games or other modes that require moving a large distance. Chimera start the 
 match out with the standard alien rifle which has poor accuracy unless you hit the enemy with a 
 tag, which usually creates instant death for those hit by it, while the humans start off with the 
 carbine assault rifle, which is more accurate, fires from a longer range, does more damage to chimera, 
 but has a lower firing rate then the chimeran rifle and less ammo per clip.
  Lag?
  I've yet to encounter lag no matter what size game I am in, or how many explosions or players are 
 on the screen at once. The only strange things I've seen are of people standing still and taking 
 more shots then normal before they die, but that's pretty much it. You won't see lag players or 
 glitchers exposing any flaws, and so far everything has gone well.
  Online Features
  Match making is done through ranked games and playing with friends is extremely easy with the games 
 party system. You can create a party of your friends (up to 20 players) or other players, then 
 move from one game to another, while dragging all the members of your party with you and on to 
 your own team. It's a great feature and has been very useful so far. The game also has an extremely 
 detailed stat tracking book, which allows you to look at your best weapon, worst weapon, various 
 ribbons and medals you've earned and how many times you've earned them (headshots, melee kills 
 etc.) , in game achievements like who beat the campaign, obtaining 100 kills with a certain gun 
 etc., shots fired of a particular gun, kills with that gun, accuracy of that gun, and many more. 
 After a game you can also see who you were killed the most by and who you killed the most of. There 
 is also a list of players you've recently played with so you can easily send a friend invite just 
 in case you forgot to do so after the game. Voice chat is very clear due to Insomniac paying Voice 
 Age to increase the audio of the headset chatting, and so far the community seems to be growing 
 at a slow, but progressive pace. This game online is simply fun and addicting as well with huge 
 very detailed maps offering 11 locations, but completely different when scaled down. Some portions 
 of the smaller maps aren't even on the larger 40 player maps, so if you were to actually count 
 the areas it'd be about 20 or so. Games are often very intense and spawn killing isn't a huge problem 
 as of yet. You almost never feel crowded even with the 40 players and downloadable content is supposed 
 to be on its way. Final Thoughts
  Overall Resistance is a must play game whether you have a ps3 or not. The game is actually pretty 
 fun in cooperative play and offers enough difficult situations to have you and your friend thinking 
 of new ways to attack a scenario that was seemingly impossible just moments before. The guns are 
 all useful and original along with levels and enemies that further help put those guns to good 
 use. The vehicle portions of the Campaign are simple at first, but later become just as difficult 
 as a fire fight, but in some cases even more intense then what you thought the game could achieve. 
 Resistance is great for newcomers to the FPS genre and for those of you that are FPS veterans I 
 say you have a lot of fun just waiting to be played. Don't be fooled by the beginning, because 
 the game does pick up and it does so in the best way possible. Resistance takes many little influences 
 from other great First Person shooters you've played in the past, but adds a whole lot more with 
 some of the most intense battles you might have ever seen. In fact, I've yet to see another game 
 that has as much going on at once in a game without lag as Resistance does almost flawlessly in 
 some of its major battles. I highly recommend this game and believe it should be enjoyed by all 
 gamers. If you're not an FPS fan then play it with a friend who is. You will have fun just being 
 on the ride, and if you are a hardcore FPS fan then give this game a shot. Go from start to finish 
 because not a single part of this game should be missed by the audience Insomniac tried so hard 
 to impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnrkinsey1
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jan 10, 2007 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is one of three (or four) exclusive titles for your Playstation 3. Unfortunately, the 
 game does not measure up to other first person shooters, games like Call of Duty 3 (COD3) , Gears 
 (Gears of War) , Ghost Recon (GRAW) , or Rainbow Six. Resistance is a true first generation game. 
 It looks and plays like Quake 4 on the Xbox 360. The single player mode is repetitive at best. you 
 play the game for 3-5 minutes, 1 minute FMV/movie, 3-5 minutes of the game, 1 minute FMV/move. wash/rinse/repeat.. 
 There are tons of weapons available. Multiplayer/online function is OK at bestonce you get nailed 
 (killed) , you are randomly regenerated. If you are dying to get a decent FPS (first person shooter.) , 
 get COD3 (best played online) or wait a few months for Rainbow Six or Ghost Recon 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acdcrocknroll
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 5:34 pm PT
Review:  When you kill an enemy it doesn't disappear and when you blow up part of the near fully destructible 
 environments the pieces don't go away either. The obvious power of the PS3 and the masterful coding 
 work of the developers let everything stay on screen all the time while never taking a frame hit. 
 This is an incredible accomplishment for a launch game on any system
  An exceptional example of what makes good games good, the synthesis of several well developed elements 
 into one seamless whole that never distracts you from the action and excitement and doesnt use 
 up its bag of tricks early to just stick you with slight alteration for the remainder of playing. 
 and one of my favorite things is the glass breaking it is one of the best things.
  hopefully they will make a new one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cfjunior120
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  I beat the game in like 3 days!!!!!!!!!!! it was so easy i beat the game over again 10 times. I 
 just finished the 10th time like 1 hour ago. i stayed up for 1 1/2 days just to beat it the 10th 
 time!!!!!!!!!!!!! I would really recomend this game for those who have nothing else to do other 
 than play video games! It's really addictive!!! my boss got my hooked on the game! i have actually 
 lossed 5 1/2 pounds playing the game straight. who ever the developer is, it think they should 
 put more games out. they really have somthing going for them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mackey12345
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  I was turned off and on about this game, it made me feel good, and then it turned right around 
 through the same route again to see the sights... AGAIN....
  
  Weapons were somewhat lacking, then again, look at lost planet, only so many weapons to play with, 
 but they were fun to use, the m5a2 was fun to use, the good old auger was always there to back 
 me up, and then there was that bastardish bulleye that i was always tagged with......
  
  Gameplay, while not wholly original, it was still a good set back, and made me look back on the 
 good old days of good games, half life, halo, call of duty, and far cry....
  
  Sound... Somewhat lacking, needs a bit more time before I can get used to the sound, I usually 
 put the radio on to cover the bad sound...
  
  Multiplayer is great, no perfect though cause I love the Lost Planet multiplayer, but it does something 
 well which I can't put my finger on...
  
  Graphics are somewhat good, nothing I haven't seen before (wait for crysis.. :) ) Bottom line is 
 that you should rent it first before you buy, see what you think of it then you go out and buy 
 it, its not worth it for the single player, but it is worth every penny for multiplayer... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drifterews
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:23 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a pretty big fan of first person shooters, and this game delivered on every aspect. 
 When I first saw the screens I thought that this was going to be a beautiful game. This first day 
 that I opened the box and played I realized I was more then right. Resistance blew my expectations 
 away on many levels. To start with the graphics are amazing. The charcter details are great and 
 the background details are even better. Almost every part of the visual aspect of this game is 
 just simply beautiful.
  
  The gameplay is also amazing. The controls are very well set up for any style of gameplay, and 
 everything flows very smoothly during the game.
  
  The thing I was impressed the least by, but impressed none the less was the sound. The background 
 music was decent enough. The one place I was very impressed when it came to the sound was during 
 the shell shock moments. It is very similar to how shell shock actually affects a person.
  
  Great Job insomniac, keep them coming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jb2011
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2007 6:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has to be one of the best first person shooters ever. The great graphics and amazing 
 online environment make this game amazing. The single player campaign starts of with aliens shooting 
 everywhere and you running around trying not to get killed. Insomniac did it again. This game is 
 simply amazing. The ranking system makes you want to work at online to get better. Also the Co-op 
 is a great way to play this game with a friend. It is like all of the great fps games into one. 
 Get this game and you will see what many have waited for the ps3 for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: otis2828
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  one of the best shooting games i've ever played. i've never had so much fun playing one before. 
 its the first game i got and i've been playing it nonstop. the online capability is amazing.
  
  if you play online you will be automatically assigned to a team whether it be every man/woman 
 for him/herself or team based game, and they vary every time. one time you'll be playing capture 
 the flag, the next team deathmath
  
  the story line is also amazing. its not one of those games when your playing you can predict everything 
 that will happen. it will surprize you on more than one occasion.
  
  the arsenel and enemies are so unique and amazing. in what other game do you have a gun that can 
 shoot through a wall? honestly how sweet is that?!?
  
  if you have a ps3 and dont' have resistance then you are definetally missing out. i would suggest 
 you get it now or as asoon as possible!!! it's an instant classic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nas-tmayne2k6
Rating: 6.7
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  I stumbled across a ps3 about a week ago while shopping for something other than a ps3, I saw a 
 60gb staring me in the face, so i decided hey the heck Ill pick one up, I bought Resistance along 
 with socom combined assualt for ps2 and bully for ps2. I set up my ps3 and PSN, popped in Resistance 
 and heres the synopsis
  
  Graphics-Solid, no hiccups in framerate, infinite draw distance, facial models are topnotch but 
 bland textures, repeating textures for instance a wall will have repeating textures along the whole 
 length, very ps1 ish, bland color scheme, cartoony animations and NO RAGDOLL PHYSICS. Unbelieveable
 
  
  Sound-Pretty good midi score, decent acting, above average gun effects and acting
  
  control- solid overrall, seems slightly unresponsive, aiming is a pain. and no rumble feedback feels 
 very ackward for a shooter.
  
  Single player- uncompelling story, uncompelling gameplay, I really could care less what happens 
 to private nathan hale
  
  Mulitplayer- Put it this way, if you have played any Fps in recent history, youve already played 
 this game to death.
  
  If you have never played a FPS in your life and are looking for a promising system in a ps3 and 
 need a game, this is for you, but if you are like me, and have played unreal championship, timesplitters, 
 or have played HL online, really any fps made in the last 8 years. This game isnt worth it, Its 
 not fresh, not compelling, its like a greatest hits compilation of FPSs with elements from many 
 in a gumbo with a laughable story and boring gameplay, Its even worse if youve played GOW or r6 
 Vegas.
  
  I cannot reccommend this game, Its technically sound but so been there done that 100x its not worth 
 it. you are better off just searching the ps2 library if you never owned one like me, or go back 
 farther for some ps1 games, In the meantime wait for some real games to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAFPSMASTERVET1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Very solid game overall decent sound graphics and gameplay not to mention great controls! Hopefully 
 others will play and enjoy as much as I did! This game deserves an award for all around fun and 
 tons of action in my opinion! So if you like the way the graphics are of you just want to buy it 
 for other reasons go for it and enjoy it alot , I sure did and I hope my review will help someone 
 out! This is truly a good fps in my opinion insoniac did great! Tip , when chimera grab you shake 
 controler and you will bash them ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plavo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game, I was expecting it to be a decent game, but not great. While playing single-player 
 I thought my guess was right. However, when I went online, I was blown away. The game's multiplayer 
 is unbelievable, and I could play it for hours and hours. I've been a huge fan of halo since it 
 came out, but I must admit, I enjoy Resistance's multiplayer more than halo. This game is far and 
 away the best game on the PS3, it's just a shame that it's been underhyped while Gears (which is 
 also a great game) has been overhyped. All in all, this is the must have game for the PS3, and 
 one of the best games of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathansarro
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 7, 2007 9:57 am PT
Review:  This game is great. First off the second you get into it you'll notice the sheer amount of action 
 going on, and happy to report the ps3 holds up well. The campaign is fun, challenging, and fairly 
 lengthy at about 12 hours. The real fun begins when you jump online though. With 40 player games 
 it can get pretty intense. The game hardly ever lags and plays great online. The ranking system 
 is great and it will have you playing for hours if you want that supreme commander rank. Some of 
 the things i didn't care for was the story. Although a great story it never felt that it went anywhere. 
 The weapons are also very cool. Great game and a must-have for the ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavenly_King
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 7, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  I LOVE THIS GAME!!!
  
  I loved the whole game is story, its graphic, its game play and its audio. Its story is total original 
 and is not like anything else out there. Its game play is great. The graphic are very amazing for 
 a first gen title. I personally like the character modeling, the most which almost looked real. 
 The sound of the characters and guns were great it sounded like they were real guns. The thing 
 I liked the most with the physics was that when you toss a grenade all blows up in very realistic 
 way.
  
  One other thing I through was great was AI of the chimeras; they can sneak and attack from behind 
 :lol:. The variety of creatures is amazing and the wepons are mind-blowing.
  
  I think if your going to get a PS3 you should get this game because of the online play, the gameplay, 
 the graphics, the sound, etc, etc, etc. I would recommend this game to anyone with a PLAYSTATION 
 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycros
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jan 6, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Resistance has got it all. Story line is pretty good and it draws you in. The weapons are amazing 
 . Great single player mode, with lots of replay value. I like the weapon unlock features as you 
 complete the game. Even the coop mode is a lot of fun. The online play is also good. Open mics, 
 and a good variety games makes it solid. As a launch game and the ps3 being a new system this is 
 a super game. The future is looking good for the resistance franchise. I Am really looking forward 
 to many more great titles in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: numba1gamer
Rating: 4.7
Date: Jan 6, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  I bought the PS3 last week and have not found a game worthy enough of my time to play except for 
 maybe Fight Night 3. I am not impressed with this game. The whole next gen concept I feel is letting 
 me down. Yeah, the graphics look good but the game play is horrible! Are we sacrificing game play 
 for graphics?!! Graphically, all of the games look good... but the game play is suspect. Playing 
 Resistance gives you the been there done that feel. Oh, another FPS... if you want a real shooter 
 game... play Gears of War or Rainbow Six.... Do not play those games before playing Resistance... you 
 will not enjoy it as much... I am pretty sure that after you play GoW and Rainbow Six, you will 
 not play Resistance again. In the future, I believe the PS3 will outdue the Xbox 360 game wise... they 
 need to step up their online game! If you do not own a 360... you are getting short changed on your 
 next gen gaming experience! So, I guess Resistance overall is a good way to pass the time until 
 something better comes along.... it won't be too long! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSN17
Rating: 5.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I have an extreme disdain for mediocrity. A bad game is... funny sometimes. And very rarely will 
 you rent/buy a bad game expecting something good. What does happen often however is you pick up 
 a new game expecting good/great and all you get is i've seen/done/played this before. 
  
  There is absolutely nothing inspired about this shooter. A bit of WWII, a bit of alien invasion, 
 mix in crappy urban combat scenes that are so trendy these days (and only HL2 has pulled off) and 
 you get this game. There is nothing redeeming about shooting your enemy, no team play or co-op.
 
  
  Maybe its because I just beat Gears of War's single player campaign in co-op mode with my buddy 
 (freakin' brilliant game, take about innovation) but I am just flat out bored with this game. Maybe 
 it's because I have yet to actually buy a game for my PS3, I just a revolving door with gamefly. 
 You know Sony is in trouble when their flagship launch game is proudly made by INSOMNIAC GAMES. 
 ...
  
  Who the hell are they?
  
  This game is not the next step, it's a summary of everything that was the shooter genre. But as 
 a launch title for 'the next step in gaming,' it's ironically regressive. This game gets a 5.8...... out 
 of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryn2305
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man
  
  Setting/Stoyline
  From its fascinating introduction to its electrifying conclusion, Resistance: Fall of Man has surpassed 
 the standard Halo had set for premier first-person shooters. The game is set in an alternate 20th 
 century. World War 2 is replaced by a massive outbreak of alien-like creature known as the Chimera. 
 The creatures have already conquered Russia and most of Eurasia. As Sgt. Nathan Hale, it is your 
 task to defend Britain, the last European stronghold. As the game unfolds, you go to fight relentlessly 
 in attempt to fight back the monstrosities of the Chimera. Overall resistance has a wonderfully 
 diverse number of locations, from ruined cities to underground tunnel networks. Gameplay The gameplay 
 is nothing short of brilliant. The Chimera prove to be a force to reckon with. Unlike games of 
 the past, the enemy is intelligent and uses the detailed environments to their advantage. The Chimera 
 also attempt to trap you with attacks from strategical positions. Learning to use your great assortment 
 of weapons (especially their secondary features) well will prove to be your greatest assets as 
 Sgt. Hale. Grenades, also play a greater role than in most games  a well placed grenade makes 
 fighting through the endless mass of enemies much easier. Unfortunately, it is true that men fighting 
 along side you are typically useless, but they do distract enemy forces from focusing solely on 
 you. Finally I am very impressed with gameplay overall, and enjoy the tempo of the game which allows 
 for stints of both intense action and relative calmness. It is not a spray fire type of game at 
 all.
  
  Graphics/Physics Graphics are very impressive but not always mind-blowing. Some settings do not 
 have the next-gen look that others do and grass and trees are slightly rigid and lack natural 
 flow. However, the explosion physics are amazingly realistic and do not lose the wow factor throughout 
 the game. Character models are impressive but again nothing more than the hype. Overall graphics 
 are very nice  you notice the grittiness of the destroyed cities and can almost feel the breeze 
 in the trees and shrubs. Overall
  Resistance is without a doubt the best game I have played on a next-gen  ranking on my list, 
 ahead of Gears of War. For a first generation game, Insomniac has done Sony proud. The intelligence 
 of the Chimera, the wonderful physics, and completely immersive gameplay (including online mode 
  WOW) make resistance a game to rank with the best of them, perhaps fitting its media-hyped name 
 as The Halo Killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TBIRD7280
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 14, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  Every so often, a video game so gripping, intense, and stunning is released. This is one of those 
 video games. Insomniac took everything that games like, and they compiled into one ingenious game. 
 The Good
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  You will take the role of Nathan Hale, an American Bad-ass who was shipped off to Britain to help 
 against the Chimera ( your alien opponents ) . Hale has just about every bad thing that possibly 
 happen to him actually happen to him. He is mistaken for dead almost every other level, and he 
 is capable of taking down practically every enemy by himself.
  
  You will spend literally hours trying to beat the single player modes. The A. I. is nothing short 
 of brilliant. One of the most under-appreciated aspects of gaming, how valuable your computer allies 
 are, obviously had a lot of time and effort put into it, seeing as your teammate actually do serve 
 a purpose and help you out.
  
  The multi-player is the greatest that I have ever played. You can play in either ranked or unranked 
 matches, and let me tell you, the ranking system is one of the greatest things about this game. 
 You will continually find yourself coming back to this game in an effort to rank up to the highest 
 possible level. The entire multiplayer is just loads, and loads of fun.
  
  The Bad -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  There is no split screen multi-player, even though that is not too much of a drawback.
  
  You are always put into matchmaking for ranked game ( this means that they pick your map and 
 game type ) .
  
  All and all, this game is easily the best on the PS3, and in my opinion, the best on the market 
 today. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is possibly the best FPS game that i have ever played and it is still better than Halo. The 
 graphics are top nocht. The gameplay is fun when you have a buddy to freak them out on some of 
 the creepy levels and also it takes advantage of the Tilt Sensing controler. By far this is a must 
 have to any Sony fans and also ppl who like Insomniac with their crazy ideas and wacky guns with 
 all so hard skill pionts. The multiplayer is down right cool and it allmostr feels like a WWII 
 game. But sense their isnt that many games out yet i think this game really does pass the time 
 for another game that you have been waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackad
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2007 4:22 pm PT
Review:  Two days ago I have bought the 60 gigabyte Ps3. The day after, I bought this game resistance: fall 
 of Man. Ever since i started playing this game, I have been playing non-stop. While playing, ive 
 realized that enemies have the same exact power like Nathan Hell. (the person you are) . Enemies 
 can think more, throw grenades in a good place that demolishes their enemies, and creatures like 
 the Hyprid can even do melees on you. Im gonna have to have to say that this game deserves to be 
 the same copy oh Halo, F. E. A. R. and Black. Whoever has a Playstation three, This game is a definite 
 MUST BUY. Online Mode is so fun. The online mode is like playing
  Counter-Strike source plus Halo. just came back from Europe! : ] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winters1MGSfan
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jan 5, 2007 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is definitely the game to own for the PS3. The game itself is difficult especially on 
 normal difficulty. The graphics are good, but sometimes look a little bland. However, the textures 
 themselves are something to behold. The gameplay seems to be run-and-gun, but this is misleading; 
 the game is won by staying smart with cover and knowing what gun is appropriate for what situation. 
 The sound design is top-notch; it just scares the crap out of you when you hear it. This with polished 
 multiplayer makes a game that, although is not perfect, is definitely a sign of good things to 
 come. By the way, the ending is just find,; although a cliff-hanger, it only makes one want a sequel 
 even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eagles5
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best game to get with your Playstation 3 at launch, hands down. This game has 
 a very good story line (esp. for a FPS) also you can expect to get over 10 hours worth of playing 
 time in this game. Also the control scheme is easy to learn and very easy to master. The best part 
 about RFOM is the 40 player multiplayer. The online experience is top notch with the exception 
 of being able to access your buddy list from the XMB but other then that, RFOM offered a great 
 experience online as well as off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgs2snake
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 5, 2007 12:23 am PT
Review:  Although Resistance was rushed to become a launch title it still is one of the most intense war 
 games with a very suprising story. The weapons are awesome! This game has been put down a lot as 
 the Halo Killer or Gears of war Killer and failed, but who cares about those people because for 
 a launch title its pretty damn good. Online could use some work and not just this game, but the 
 whole network interface could use some touching up. comparing this game to Xbox 360's launch titles 
 it is a big achievment. I highly recommend this to people who love shooting anything that movies... even 
 if they are you allies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JNU13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  This game was one of my first PS3 games and I like it alot, the story is great. This game has a 
 lot of cool guns and enemies. It took a hour for this game to really sink in, but now its a great 
 pick up for PS3. This is probably the best game out for it at the moment. If you get the deal at 
 bjs you get this for free with 2 other good games. I can't wait to see more great games like this 
 on the PS3. This game is a must have for any FPS fan or someone that loves guns or science fiction. 
 You will love it trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jahwerx
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  i was left feeling totally empty. I'll start with some for examples :
  1) Cooperative mode: The story line is THE SAME AS CAMPAIGN. Bear in mind there are TWO players, 
 and the plot states Only a single person survived . . . . . . excuse me, what happened to my african-american 
 counterpart that so valiently saved my skin too??!!
  2) See above - no option for any creative problem solving. simply blast your way through the adventure. 
 COMPLETELY LINEAR. Ratchet and clank at least allowed for some parallel threads.
  3) Any attempt at providing puzzle/adventure themes was lost - totally. This is manifestested in 
 collecting Intel . WORTHLESS. I stopped after level 3. It offers ZERO insight into the gameplay 
 or story line.
  4) Character development: ZERO. Your hero is a zombie. period. Look at the better character/heros 
 that are a joy to play (Manny from Grim Fandango, Rasputin from Psychonauts) and this is a non-starter.
 
  5) The idea of mixing WWII-vintage style with futuristic aliens never worked.
  
  The plusses:
  1) Neat graphics in HD. Yippie. Ruined with weak story and gameplay
  2) Never 
 experienced a significant bug.
  
  Bottom Line:
  1) I can't say its a waste of $60, since I actually finished the game. I knew 1/2 way through that 
 it was not going to get better. It didn't. Its beyond me how others gave this such a great review. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  This PS3 launch title is so good, it rivals James Bond: Goldeneye! It's way better than the way-overated 
 Halo, with insanely boring, and repetitive single player. When you first see this, you might think, 
 "Oh... just another WWII shooter." if you thought this... you're wrong! Just ONE thing... 40 person 
 online deathmatch! There's also killer graphics, awsome weapons: a sniper rifle that can slow down 
 time, spiked-grenades, bullseyes; what more could you ask for? The main thing that separates this 
 from all the other WWII shooters, is the ferociously designed, AI-superior chimera: big teeth, 
 six eyes, and designed so well, graphically, too. Also the big boss monsters, machines, and tanks 
 are designed so well! I f you with a PS3, and without this game, just do yourself s favor. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdto20
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 2:03 pm PT
Review:  This is easily the best PS3 game so far. The graphics are top notch for a launch title and the 
 sound is amazine in surround sound. Large selection of weapons are available for use. The single 
 player campaign is challenging and just plain fun. The co-operative campaign is a great addition 
 to play. The online is excellent with support for up to 40 people to play at once, hardly any lag 
 at all, and it's easy to operate the online menu. I've never actually really liked an FPS before, 
 until this game and Call of Duty 3. Great presentation, great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DavidGold
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 4, 2007 1:18 pm PT
Review:  I believe that Insomniac Games Resistance: Fall of man is a wonderfully composed game. The game 
 campaign seems fun and very exciting. The games cooperative ( co-op) mode also based on the same 
 idea as the campaign is also fun, emotionally disturbing ( in a good way) , and also exciting. The 
 best part of the game though is the online. The online mode consists of all good feelings and only 
 shows that the game truly shows ethnocentric qualities. The game is even Bluetooth headset compatible. 
 The only real disapointing about the game is how you can only do one player online and no more. 
 The controller also does not have a rumble effect which in my opinion does not matter because I 
 do not play may first person shooters but a close friend of mine the Gamespot Reviewers Union Leader 
 AlexRA said it took him a while to get used to playing without rumble. Over all this is a game 
 amyone can pick up and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: absandbeat14760
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 4, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  ... the comercials, pictures, and reviews I'd read I thought I'd give it a try. And I'm glad I did. 
 In the past I'd tried some FPS's on the PS2 and wasn't impressed at all, nothing compared to what 
 X-Box was able to offer so I always steered towards the X when I needed my Firing Fix. And of course 
 anyone reading this can likely assume what it was... Halo! We're not going to go into how many people 
 think Halo is overrated but it's the first game that got me seriously interested in FPS's. Maybe 
 I like Resistence because it reminds me so much of it. I don't know but I'm glad I bought it.
 
  
  The controls and gameplay are almost identicle to Halo's which is a good thing because you can 
 pick up the controller and know how to do everything in 10 minutes (probably 5 really) There aren't 
 too many ways to improve on that. The A. I. is surprisingly good, with the enemies dodging in and 
 out and looking for the best vantage points to kill you from. Even your fellow troops actually 
 hold their own when they're with you. No listless targets here, everyone's out for blood. There 
 were no frame rate issues of any kind that I could see thank god because that can really ruin the 
 experience in some games. The only thing I did notice is that once in a great while the PS3 lost 
 my controller for a second or two and my guy would just stand still in an intense firefight. This 
 is the hardware's fault however, not the games.
  
  I would have expected the graphics to be just a tad better considering the PS3 hardware it uses 
 and would have liked it in 1080p instead of 720p but considering it's a launch game I can't help 
 but give it a 9 because even at 720p it's beautiful.
  
  I can't say much for the sound because I'm not an audiophile like some of my friends but the simple 
 fact that I didn't notice it tells me that it must be good. Sounds confusing? Not really, it's 
 integrated so well that the viewing and listening mesh together perfectly for a singular experience. 
 The only time audio stands out for me is when it's truly bad. (poor sound effects, music that doesn't 
 fit the situation, voice acting is dull, etc.) If I had surround sound set up (which in the near 
 future I will) I'm sure I'll be blown away but in the meantime I'm giving it an 8. As far as the 
 value goes, even though I've beaten it once I'll be playing it again because new features are available 
 during the second play through (such as weapons) which adds a nice little bonus. And since we're 
 talking about weapons... these rock! They're inventive and have multiple uses, definately new to 
 the FPS scene. The sheer options you have mean you can eliminate your enemies any number of ways, 
 some of which are a bit devious :D I haven't had the pleasure of trying the multiplayer yet because 
 I can't get broadband where I currently live (I feel like such a caveman...) but if it's anything 
 like Halo multiplayer which I believe it will be I'll be playing this game for years to come. I 
 want to give this game a 10 all the way but no game is perfect, there's always something that can 
 be improved upon. And in this case.......
  
  NO SYSTEM LINK!
  
  You have no idea how I wish Sony would do this the way Microsoft has. I can almost imagine playing 
 this with 10 friends in the same house while we're all screaming and going crazy and that would 
 be awesome. That's what's kept Halo (and the second) alive for us for these past couple years. Halo 
 parties plain and simple. I can only hope Sony wakes up and does this. Aside from that I hope they 
 make a sequal because they left themselves open for one at the end. Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scorch910
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Amazing visuals and sound, multiplayer is too additing, best PS game Iv'e Played in a while. I 
 accually skipped work and school just to play this its way to good. The Singleplayer will keep 
 you occupied for hours plus it has a great story to keep up the need to beat the game, and the 
 multiplayer has a veriety of good weapons, maps, and game types. This games multiplayer is also 
 some what skill and some what straigy when fighting/being the chimeara. Deffinetly a buy If your 
 into sci-fi shooters like halo, or a rent it if you do not have the PS3 online setup or if it dose 
 not seem to fit your taste 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleYoshi
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 4, 2007 6:56 pm PT
Review:  This is a game that all PS3 owers need to get for their PS3.
  If you are a FPS fan GET THIS GAME!!! It's the next best thing to Gears of Wars! You play as a 
 U. S. Sergeant named Nathan Hale. You follow what
  are known events from July 11th to July 14th, the day Sergeant Hale was
  last seen alive. Gameplay: 
 It plays the same as any other FPS gamers do.
  There are 17 weapons to use. The foes you will meet in the game are called Chimera. There are 17 
 foes in all that will want to do you harm.
  You know what to do. Kill them! There are 8 Vehicles in all. Graphics: The graphics are all right. 
 It's a start! But the game makes it up
  on making the game really FUN. It's not boring.
  
  Sound: The sound is awsome! If you got surround sound.
  
  The best thing about this game 
 is the Muliplayer.
  Their are 4 maps sizes: Tiny = 8 players, Small = 16 players, Medium = 32 players, Large =40 players. 
 (35 areas in all.)
  The Online Game Modes are: Meltdown, Breach, Capyure the flag,
  Team Deathmatch, Conversion, and just plain Deathmatch.
  
  8.8 - 8.9 ~ A GREAT game! MUST HAVE 
 GAME FOR THE PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assassinX01
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  This game will be heavily scrutinized since it's really the only AAA title of the PS3 launch, and 
 fortunately for early adopters, this game is worthy of the attention. Inevitably, Resistance will 
 draw comparisons to games such as Halo and Gears of War, but don't be fooled; it's a different 
 type of game than both the former. The sheer number of weapons and grenades is thrilling, and almost 
 every single one merits use throughout the campaign (not to mention that the vast majority of them 
 are fun to use) . Of course, there are the standby weapons, such as the carbine, sniper, shotgun, 
 and rocket launcher, but each has either a twist or extra ability to prevent their use from being 
 rote. And then there are the alien and U. S. weapons, amalgamations of unrealistic but nevertheless 
 impressive abilities that spice of the gameplay. Munitions that go through walls, bounce off walls, 
 and home in on targets are just a few of the available selections. The enviornments are well varied, 
 and the action is neither intermitent nor a never ending cascade, usually striking an excellent 
 balance in pacing. The AI of the enemies is one of the best in any shooter, which forces you to 
 think and outsmart them like you would another human player. As well, there is an excellent variety 
 of enemies, with seven or eight different types. But the real treat is the online gameplay. Upto 
 fourty people in a single match make for an insane envirornment. The two playable types, chimera 
 and human, each have their own special yet balanced abilities that change the gameplay and tactics 
 depending on which you play as. The gameplay is also slightly faster online, so when you jack into 
 an online game for the first time, prepare to be blown away at the speed and intensity of it all. 
 If there is one notable similarity between Resistance: FoM and Halo, it's that both have wonderful 
 multiplayer dimensions. Graphically, Resistance is the best looking game on the PS3, and you can 
 count on several fingers the few titles that best it in graphics. While the game does have a slightly 
 cartoonish feel to its envirornment, everything is still well detailed and very sharp. The character 
 models are the best I've ever seen, even if certain other aspects are a bit lacking (water, I'm 
 talking to you) . Lighting, while not heavily used, does a good job of illuminating scenes, directing 
 the player, and creating a certain feel to a level. Partical effects are also well done. There 
 are really only two areas in the game where the asthetics are lacking. The first is that textures 
 are not used enough, leaving certain things to feel flat. Tied into that problem, there are far 
 too many two dimensional objects in this game (such as grass and bushes) . The second problem is 
 that there is often a good deal of overlapping and seethrough. While it might be cool to be able 
 to stand inside of a dead enemy, it gets old fast While the music is great, it's nothing special 
 and probably won't be too well rememebered. It also is a bit too repetative. The special effects 
 and voices, though, are excellent. All of the cutscenes are impecably done, the voices match their 
 characters well; the special effects, add to the atmosphere, and the various gunfire sounds add 
 personality to their respective weapons. With unlockables, a lengthy story mode with co-op and 
 multiple difficulty levels, and a spectactular online mode, this game has just about everything 
 you can ask from a shooter. The only thing that is really missing is an online co-op mode, but 
 you'd honestly be too busy playing versus to care about this missing feature. Far and away, Resistance 
 is the best launch title for the PS3. It even deserves to be labeled as one of the best shooters 
 this year. Unfortunately, this game will not be experienced by nearly enough people due the PS3 
 shortages. Still, if you ever get your hands on a Playstation 3, you absolutely most own this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajenspina
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 2:34 pm PT
Review:  Like I said it's a mixture between Call of Duty, Halo, and DOOM but also obviously has much better 
 graphics than these games. It lacks in having too much movie clips during the story but has an 
 amazing variety of science fiction weapons. For example, the Hailstorm and it's clip release to 
 automaticly kill enemies until it has no more bullets, a very great idea. Another weapon was the 
 weapon that could go through walls and objects to kill your enemies, simply terrific. Also, the 
 sound, you could hear every soldier beside you, hear the enviroment clearly when it's quiet, the 
 bangs that your frags / grenades, and the shots of bullets flying. But most of all, you could hear 
 your enemies coming closer to you with there alien related voice. Lastly, the graphics of Resistance: 
 Fall of Man are so realistic you would think that your enemies / aliens really exist and are in 
 your TV. It's also realistic in it's enviroment, characters and weapons. I guess that's why it's 
 for the Playstation 3, lol. But i would recommend you new Playstation 3 to get Resistance: Fall 
 of Man as your first game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  I just got my PS3 a few days ago, and Im quite satisfied with the results. There wasn't very much 
 games, but given' the hype of Fall of Man, I decided to purchase this game. I played the game for 
 about ten minutes at the start, and I immediately knew this was a fantastic game. The graphics 
 blew me away, and just the sounds of the weapons are really outstanding.
  
  Resistance offers a solid single player campaign. I've played through a bunch of it, and I'm really 
 enjoying it. The guns look great, sound great, and of course, play great. The sheer amount of power 
 you'll feel with these guns are amazing. You'll be using the first gun, and another gun that the 
 hybrids use throughout the game most of the time, but no problem. The enemy AI is incredible. They 
 duck, they hide, and its as if you're playing against a human player. Throughout the story mode, 
 you can unlock several skill points by doing different tasks. These tasks will only give you a 
 caption, and you must try and figure them out. This adds a great sense to the game, and offers 
 a lot of replay value. The online in resistance is brilliant. There's no lag, and offers up to 
 40 players, and if you have the 60GB, its wi-fi. The online will keep you busy for weeks, if not 
 months.
  
  The graphics for resistance are really outstanding. It really justifies the name next gen , and 
 remember, this is a launch game, and it looks terrific. We would've been awed by the graphics a 
 year into the PS3's life cycle, but here it is, on launch. To add even more to the life like experience, 
 hook it up to and HD TV (Of course with HDMI cables) and you got yourself a party.
  
  Resistance is a launch game and a great one also. There are many who compare it to Gears of War, 
 and the out come is Inevitable, Gears is the better game. However, this is a game that launched 
 on the first day of the PS3, and Gears had a good year or so to dominate the Xbox 360. So there's 
 no real comparison. While other console's have to wait a while for their killer app, PS3 owners 
 can get it on day one. So if you're getting a PS3, or planning on getting one, Resistance would 
 do you right. It's a great game through and through, and a great way to show off what the PS3 can 
 do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: L1qu1dSword
Rating: 5.7
Date: Jan 3, 2007 11:11 am PT
Review:  I can't say that I have no love whatsoever for this game, but considering the ammount of hype it 
 has gotten, I really feel like I ought to weigh in.
  
  Gameplay: 5 Plays nearly identical to any other FPS you've played before. Only the AI seemed less 
 smart then what I am used to. The enemies charge at you in droves and mostly just die easily. If 
 you can play through the first level without falling asleep you will be rewarded with a dull british 
 woman's voice flapping her gab unceasingly over details that not only do not pertain to the gameplay, 
 but also that enhances your overall experience... not at all. Did I mention that flashy next-gen 
 black and white images that accompany our windbag narrator? This owes to the fact that the developers 
 wanted the game to look like it took place in the 50's... well congratulations.... it DOES look old. 
 Some of the weapons were damned cool, but that is allways the only accomplishment of a middle-tier 
 shooter.
  
  Graphics: 7 I give this game a 7 because even though it does feature some very nice next-gen textures 
 they are few and far in between. In fact a great deal of the game looks like a ps2 bargain shelf 
 classic that has been polished in a few indiscriminate locations. Second off the lower rating is 
 mostly because it is bland as hell. Gears of War for example also featured a post-apocalyptic warzone 
 but you'll notice upon firing that title up that the beatiful graphics are consistent ( possibly 
 owing to 360's video card that has twice the memmory) . Also the character and art design in that 
 title gave it a real visionary and cinematic feel. Resistance on the other hand had visuals that 
 left me thouroughly dissapointed and yawning.
  
  Sound: 7 This is the area where the game excells probably the most. The music is exactly the type 
 of moody and somtimes rousing orchestra for a 50's alien invasion. Weapons and enemy sounds are 
 all convincing.
  
  Value: I'll leave this blank for now. Suffice to say whatever the value could be... I think we can 
 all agree it does not equal sixty freakin bucks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 3, 2007 9:28 am PT
Review:  The PS3's heavily-maligned introduction, as we all know now, was mostly due to the dearth of decent 
 games accompanying the launch. All the grumbling about Blu-Ray, firmware updates, and supply issues 
 would've been background noise if the available games hadn't been so damned inferior.
  
  Thank God for Insomniac, which put some actual time and effort into developing Resistance: Fall 
 of Man. Just as Call of Duty 2 carried the XBox 360's launch lineup and Lumines and Wipeout Pure 
 bolstered the first crop of PSP games, Resistance shines brightly, particularly in comparison to 
 the bilge that occupies the same retail space.
  
  It's got an arcadey sort of feel to it, but that's appropriate given the make-believe veneer of 
 the game. If you enjoy CoD3's linear mission structure, you'll dig this. Hell, at times, the game 
 looks a lot like a Call of Duty title, obviously subbing Chimera for Axis soldiers.
  
  What you get with Resistance is a tidy little package of enjoyment that hints at the future of 
 the PS3. Were a game like this released two years from now, it might be viewed as very subpar if 
 the system has progressed like most of us think it will. But for now, Resistance: Fall of Man does 
 a number on our senses and ALMOST makes us forget that we paid well over half a grand to play it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironpej
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jan 3, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  For one of the first shoot-em ups on the PS3, this is a good start. Story kept you going from level 
 to level and the action became very fierce as you progressed. Graphics and sound are great. With 
 such little choice out there for the PS3, this is definiately one to get to tide you over until 
 more games become available. Online game play is also quite good with up to 40 players on a given 
 map. With Insomniac updating it with new maps there is a lot of life in the game even after you 
 finish the single-mission campaign.
  
  The weaponary is good, with the Bullseye being one of my favorite weapons. Nothing like tagging 
 a nasty and then unleashing hell. While the game is good, and the sound even better, this game 
 doesn't show off the PS3's capabilities. It's as good as Gears of War in graphics and sound and 
 gameplay is decent. Cons
  Very limited SIXAXIS motion controls. You shake the stick to shake off Chimera (shame on you for 
 not firing fast enough) .
  Could have had better co-opt gameplay (ability to jump in and out of this mode without it effecting 
 levels)
  More story-line though I imagine #2 will fill in the gaps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Latinbro1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jan 2, 2007 9:38 pm PT
Review:  I've played a number of FPS games but never owned one until Resistance. Main reason why I bought 
 it? I need a game to play on my PS3. Resistance is actually Insomniac 2nd attempt at a FPS game. 
 I barely remember the first one but I know it was out for either the PS1 or PC. Anyway, this game 
 is a fun and addictive game. It really doesn't bring anything new seen in other FPS like Halo, 
 Half life, Red Faction, or Doom. However, it is no less fun than any of them. The plot of the game 
 has to do with WWII never happening and a race of aliens infecting Europe instead. You play an 
 American (Sr. Hale) who has been infected with the alien virus and has developed some alien traits 
 (mainly the ability to heal) . Anyway, as a typical story would lead you to believe, Sr. Hale is 
 the last hop in defeating the alien race. Throughout the game you come across documents that fill 
 you in on what the heck is going on. You encounter numerous enemies, obtain an array of cool (creative) 
 weapons, and get to control and fight cool looking machines. Oh, and if you are not good at FPS 
 games, prepare to die a lot. Because there are parts in the game where you'll encounter what seems 
 like endless amount of enemies.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous. They look slightly better than COD 3 but you can tell that with time 
 the game could've looked even more pretty. Each area is filled with detailed and in many of the 
 open areas you see many explosions, bullets and a swarm of enemies. I'm sure this has been done 
 before but I enjoy the fact that I see those who have died in each area. They don't disappear or 
 anything (they look a little plastic but at least they are there) . The environment is not that 
 interactive, which is both good and bad. I would've liked for walls and buildings to explode or 
 take damage when the appropriate blow had been dealt (this would've added more realism) . However, 
 I did find myself hiding a lot behind walls and thus am kinda glad for the lack of full environment 
 interactivity. There are a number of reactive items in the environment that are definitely useful. 
 If timed right you can kill a number of alien by blowing up a barrel. Sound is superb. The gun 
 fire, the aliens, the soldiers shouting and dying, the explosions, the machines, and your own movements 
 can all be heard. it is so cool to hear so much explosions and fighting and not lose any sound 
 at all. Controllers handle like your typical FPS on a console. There is some motion sensing added 
 to the controls but you barely use them. For instance, you can kinda' shake your controller when 
 on fire, or when aliens attach to you. I know I heard and read about you controlling one of the 
 weapons with the movement of the controls but I never did that. The online mode is fun too. It 
 offers a variety of games that have been seen in other games like death match and capture the flag. 
 The areas are quite huge and the battles can get intense and area really fun. You get points but 
 I've not played the online mode extensively. The single players has capture most of my attention. 
 Overall, Insomniac delivers on a fun and visually pleasing game. I hope that there is a sequel 
 to this game with more weapons and any new thing that can be brought to FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobalt_church
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jan 2, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  All in all I thought this game was amazing just becasue of the co-op. The reason I think this is 
 because instead of playing the game as both players playing the invincible hero Nathan Hale, second 
 player has the joy of being a different solider. The levels were amazing and the guns were so much 
 fun to us. I think the only thing I didn't like about the game was finding all the intel! God I 
 was in like every level for, I don't know 10 minutes longer than I should have have been.
  
  Online play is fun as well don't really play it much but I love it. All in all this game is 
 freakin' sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBAFIED
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2007 10:36 pm PT
Review:  If u have a ps3 get this game, its alot of fun on campaign and sik online. The story is pretty 
 interesting, theres lots of emenys u vs., the details are goood window smashinn, box breaking, 
 grapchis are rlly nice 1 awesome FPS (few problems nothing serious) cant wait for resistance2!
 
  The campagin is pretty long and gets funner as you go along and harder, the stories they put are 
 interesting.
  Multiplayer has lots of features and enough weapons, never gets bored , having a rank clan xp level 
 its all there CANT GET ENOUGH OF IT!
  If u dont have it buy it u have it ill see u online
  
  ps3 id- InvisibleShadow
  
  RESISTANCE FALL OF MAN 
::::::

::::::
UserName: harryisda
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 8:53 pm PT
Review:  i generally didn't like first person shooters on consoles but this one is awesome. Graphics, game 
 play, story line, everything has been done well on this game. I assume its the same with everyone 
 I have been playing the game in 720p and the graphics are great. I love the game play and all the 
 many different characters that come in to play. I have yet to play this game online but so far 
 my single player campaign has been going really well. I cant think of anything bad to say about 
 the game except that load times are pretty slow which is weird. You would think with all this new 
 processing power it would fly through each set. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby-jonh
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jan 1, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. The graphics are incredible the story is so captivating this is a must have 
 if you own a PS3 and to think that this is only the begining, i mean think of all the other amazing 
 games they'll release. The bodies don't disapear like any other shooter games and the enviroment 
 is huge! it isn't one of those stupid games were you can only go in one place and like its a hallway, 
 NO! In this game you can go in any house and look for intel ( wich adds a interesting part of the 
 story and gives you hints on how to kill certain enemies that will be comming up.) I haven't played 
 much yet cuz i just got it but trust me i'll probably play for hours and hours and hours. And to 
 those **** holes who think it sucks well up yours you wasted 600$ on your PS3 and now you can't 
 p**** the first lvl so you say that it sucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theclancykid
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2007 2:54 pm PT
Review:  There is so much to this game that makes it great. The campaign is lengthy yet immersive with crazy 
 weapons and great storyline. It is sometimes even scary! If you have a PS3 this should be your 
 main priority. To buy this game. I took me about 6 days to beat the campaign on medium difficulty. 
 After you beat it, it gives you more guns that can only be used in your second round of the campaign, 
 increasing the replay value.
  After you finish the campaign, you can dive into Resistance's online mode with 40 player online 
 battles where one side is human and the other is the alien race you have to destroy in singleplayer, 
 the Chimera. Look for me online my name is Joecool14.
  The graphics are simply amazing. If the PS3 can do this the month it came out, wait until the second 
 year of its life, there will be some crazy stuff.
  If you own a PS3, do yourself a favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazzdan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jan 1, 2007 1:55 am PT
Review:  Resistance is a fun game with lots of interesting weapons and enemies, a fun multiplayer and some 
 KickAss! jeep missions and all-right tank missions. The weapons are very nice and innovative and 
 unlocking them all gives the game good replay value but you'll mostly use the standard rifle. The 
 Jeep driving missions are fantastic because of the speed and the amazingly easy and fun driving 
 but the tank missions are not as fun or fast paced but still nice. Most importantly most shooters 
 get boring and un-enjoyable when you go further into the core of the enemy such as the game Black 
 but in Resistance the game is great but its some of the last missions that are fantastic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyofinkl
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 31, 2006 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a blend of a normal FPS and the Ratchet &amp; Clank series. It has the same unique 
 weapons and great gameplay. You will get hooked to playing this game for hours as soon as you start 
 playing. The game isn't particularly hard but there might be some areas where you'll get really 
 frustrated. The gameplay heightens with each passing level as the intensity of the war against 
 the Chimera get greater. This game throws you into the action immediately just seconds after you 
 begin the game. The biggest flaw in this game has to be the ending. I dont wanna give out any spoilers 
 so I'll only say that seeing from the ending, I expect a sequel to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -L-U-I-S-
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 8, 2007 5:37 pm PT
Review:  Wow I dont know how to start my review for this game. Resistance: Fall of Man is the very best 
 game I've played. For a launch game, the graphics are outstanding, which is quite an achievement 
 by Insomniac Games. The Al is the best I've seen so far, those damn Chimera are very smart. They 
 actually use suppression and flanking positions to finish you off. This game i far from being a 
 simple run-and-gun game, I assure you, you play it like that you wont last much, specially in the 
 later and harder levels. Also if you throw grenades, some of them will actually try to avoid it. 
 I really like the variety of enemies and I love how each has a specific level of Al.
  
  The sounds (i. e. explosions, guns shooting, etc.) are splendid. The story-teller (I believe its 
 Captain Parker) is also nice and sometimes it hints at what you might encounter in the level. So 
 does the Intel documents you find in the levels. The weapons are quite amazing too very original 
 and each is unique.
  
  All in all, Resistance is THE must have game if you're a PS3 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brendandick
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 3:04 am PT
Review:  Resistance sports amazing graphics and technical structure. The game looks amazing simply put, 
 but sometimes the constant action can be overwhelming and hard to focus on. Not to worry. It's 
 not anything outstanding as far as gameplay, so the controls will feel instantly familiar. But 
 it delivers alot of new guns and weapons an techniques that will help break it away from the crowd.
 
  
  You play as Nathan Hale, an army soldier who you don't learn alot about in the story. The story 
 hardly exsists apart from the history which goes as an alternate reality for World War II in which 
 it never happened and something even worse happened. Alien's invaded and began a slaughterfest, 
 that were presummed as a Russian weapon. These brutal aliens are known through-out the game as 
 Chimera's they take over most of the world and you almost by yourself will have to take them out. 
 Coming close to death early on gives him an edge on the monsters.
  
  Your hear the story from an officer who briefly interacts with Nathan. It's really hard to get 
 into the story, because the narrorator herself doesn't really know whats going on. Ocassionaly 
 you will go into a cutscene or black and white photos will pop up and set the mood. It begins to 
 just feel like a pause between gruesome killing. You hardly learn about yourself or the enemy. 
 But Nathan is never developed because he never really talks and there is some holes to poke in 
 the plot. It's not for those who love deep story just for those who love as I said before a slaughterfest 
 .
  
  It's extremely easy to take to the controls for old veteran shooters, and even for new players. 
 The shoulder buttons control the aiming and different modes, and the triggers are shooting. The 
 buttons do different things, like throw grenades or hit somone near you. If your not very good 
 at shooters, no problem. You can set the difficulty to different modes, easy and hard. The only 
 real difference is the use of the Sixaxis controller, with not very many uses. There is a grabber 
 monster, that takes hold and you shake the controller to get him off. In multiplayer you can catch 
 fire and shake it to put it out.
  
  The main thing that sets this apart from other shooters is the wide variety of guns avaliable to 
 you, they can range from a standard 50 round rifle to a tag blaster that plasma rounds will home 
 in on the enemies. However for the many wierd ones they come with a rocket launcher, shotgun and 
 sniper rifle. After you beat the game once, you unlock more weapons and it's time to beat it again. 
 The only way this is fun again is with a buddy, or you must really like the game.
  
  There is an online gameplay, and its truly amazing for those who love total action. With rooms 
 for up to 40 people it almost feels like a constant war, run and shooting no real time for precise 
 aim. Most of the time your going to be dodging grenades, and shooting to keep alive. For those 
 who love games like Counter-Strike and Unreal Tournament you will want to definetly check this 
 game out.
  
  Also, for everyone who owns a PS3 definetly check ths game out, its a highlight of the PS3 launch. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: porturocker
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 31, 2006 1:48 am PT
Review:  i gave these game a 9.8 in part the high score is due to the fact that the controles were great 
 for a FPC on a console ..
  
  Well as most people i got these game with the idea of (well its the only GOOD game for the PS3 
 on lunch) .. and even tho is not the ONLY good game its the BEST right now .. well i started to 
 play the game i liked the first cut sene it more or less gave you the background on what was going 
 on .. after the game trows you right in the fun !! lol .. As i said bfor is great that it fells 
 so natural to move and shot in these game even picking your guns is easy and good .. (thanks in 
 part of not being a banana the control lol ..) the dual shok fell great no feedback but some how 
 i didnt really even remember about it .. but back to the game The number of guns that gaves you 
 is BIG and every time u finish the game you get even more .. and some how unlike other games (halo 
 being one of them ) the guns dont fell as if they are FAKE dont get me wrong halo is a GREAT game 
 in its on right but the makers of fall of man got it right on the guns part ..
  
  The story get good as the game goes there are some hard parts in the game bu nothign WAYY to hard 
 and due to the fact that you can have ALL the guns at once you never really get ot a point were 
 u go DANM if i had the sniper right now id have he best kill ever made in a game ..
  
  But going back to the game the story really got beater as the game went on .. So i gave these game 
 a 9.7 the Graphics arent the best we are going to end up seeing on the Ps3 BUT! as far as DAY ONE 
 games go .. ps2 xbox gamecube and the 360 none had a beatter and funner game next to them on DAY 
 ONE .. That save to say .. DONT want to spoil the end to any one but the last video shows that 
 these wont be the las Fall Of Man we are going to see and that a GOOD thing becasue me the guy 
 that osent like FPS got so much in to these game that left me anting to play more after i was done 
 ...
  
  So if you have a Ps3 right now and or ARE thinkign about geting one make sure to get Fall Of Man 
 .. is a GREAT game that takes the best from the best on its kind and adds even more .. Resistence 
 A MUST HAVE FOR ANY ONE WITH A PS3..! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyTheViking
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:03 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is by far the best launch title of the Playstation 3. If you have a Playstation 
 3, and not Resistance, you are getting a true look at the Playstation 3's capabilities. The controls 
 are the same generic first-person shooter controls, making it very easy to learn. Though, there 
 is no alternate thumbstick layout. The gameplay is superb, probably one of the most fun games I 
 have played in a long time. The weapons are some of the most original I have seen. There are, of 
 course, the generic weapons, such as the carbine rifle, shotgun, sniper rifle, and missile launcher. 
 Then, there are guns like the Bullseye. The Bullseye is a gun, similar to the carbine rifle, but 
 with it, you can shoot the enemy with a tag, enabling all shots to hit the target. Next there is 
 the Auger. The Auger has about the same firepower as the carbine rifle, but you can deploy a small 
 shield that does not allow you to be shot when you are behind it. There are others I cannot think 
 of.
  
  The grenades are in a class of their own. There is the generic frag grenade, which still packs 
 a punch. There is the Hedgehog grenade, which when thrown, raises up and sends out spikes to the 
 surrounding area. There is also the Air-Fuel grenade, which emits a green gas that when you fire 
 through it, a huge fireball forms. There is the 140mm grenade, which launches from the carbine 
 rifle. The online is amazing, you just have to see it for yourself. The only thing I don't like 
 about it, is that you can't select the type of game you want to play. The only options are team 
 games and free-for-all.
  
  Overall, this is a must have for any gamer, and is enough in itself to buy the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phicon013
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 1:52 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a story about the alien race of the Chimera and how they invaded. It 
 revolves around the timespan of World War II but the twist to the story is, before WWII could have 
 happened an Alien Race called the Chimera managed to take over so instead of the World fighting 
 against each other, they needed to band up together to defend the world. Very Ironic. Resistance 
 looks amazing for a launch title for the Playstation 3. From the guns to the aliens to each specific 
 and amazing on detail on each level, Insomniac has really delivered graphic wise with the look 
 that Resistance Fall of Man has. Insomniac did an awesome job in recreating the look that Britain 
 during the War and it makes you feel as if you were really there. If the PS3 can produce these 
 types of graphics at it's launch, imagine how incredible games will look in years to come.
  
  The Sound is quite impressive. Each gun has it's own unique blast noise and you can hear the 
 aliens scream in terror when they are shot and killed. Kind of a bittersweet feeling actually. 
 Hehe. Voice acting is great and so is the music. Resistance combines already great shooters (Half-Life, 
 Call of Duty) and combines the best of them to make one amazing and probably one of the best FPSs 
 of all time.
  
  The real things that make Resistance such a stand out game / fps is it's weapons and it's multiplayer. 
 The weapons are quite possibly one of the best and most creative weapons ever developed in a game. 
 During the course of the game, you kind of feel a connection between you and your weapon and makes 
 you feel you are really controlling the weapon like it's in your own hands. How many first person 
 shooters make you feel that way?
  There is a Sniper Rifle that can slow down time and even with a homing beam attached to it and 
 there are your classics like the Carbine and the Shotgun which are fun to use also. The offline 
 and online multiplayer is as good as it gets. You can play through the main mission with a friend 
 or a brother or you can go online and test your skills with people from all over the world. Online 
 play never gets old. The biggest game you can get into is a 40 player deathmatch which is a personal 
 favorite of mine.
  
  Overall, this game is THE MUST HAVE TITLE for anyone who owns a PS3 or got one at launch. Thank 
 you for reading my review and hope you enjoy your PS3. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jjthejetplane64
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 30, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is one of the best shooters i have played to date. When the PS3 launched 
 i honestly did not think it would live up to the hype and in my opinion so far it has not. But, 
 i do enjoy my PS3 and i think the main reason is Resistance. This is quite possibly the best launch 
 title that has come out since halo in my opinion. Although the story is rather short the AI is 
 fairly intellegent and the game does have a small level of difficulty. The online and multiplayer 
 features however is where this game shines. I have spent hours online playing and trying to level 
 up. It is extremely fun and addicting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NiMdA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 30, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  This game is gorgeous. You definitely need the HDTV and HDMI or Component cable to fully enjoy 
 the experience (it's a shame the Playstations didn't come with them) . The storyline is catchy but 
 I thought the ending wasn't climatic enough (the sequel's way too easy to see) and it felt like 
 the game ended too soon because of it. Two player co-op is definitely amazing fun, but you need 
 at least 10 people to have a decent multi-player game going so definitely make sure you have your 
 machine connected online if you want to play some serious multi-player. The weapons are particularly 
 fun to play (the creative minds behind Ratchet and Clank were hard at work) , especially the grenades 
 and the Hailstorm. You can really see Insomniac doing their best to work that Cell processor. The 
 controls were very easy to pick up, not to mention the default controls are well balanced and the 
 shake 'em off motion sensor usage was pretty cool. I'm not sure if the replay value is that great, 
 but I typically play games for their story so once I play a game it usually bores me. The game 
 is certainly the best of the PS3's opening line-up and I recommend that everyone gives it a try. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf-Reg
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 6:27 am PT
Review:  You have to play this game. I have been converted. Usually a 3rd person game player, i never understood 
 why people where playing first person games until i played with Resistance. Now i believe again. 
 The story is great and gets you in to it. The graphics are very good and combine that with great 
 sound. The most surprising to me is that the game play evolves continually during the game. You 
 have new challenge and new enemy, new weapons, new vehicle and new landscape. I saw city's, snow, 
 rooftops, jeeps, thanks, tunnels, airports, there is to many to try to mention them all, it is 
 incredible all that i saw and went threw. I will now concentrate on online play till they hopefully 
 launch a sequel to this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khellendros1
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 30, 2006 2:12 am PT
Review:  As someone whose spent several hours with RFOM. I can honestly say that this game is every bit 
 as wonderful as Gears of War. The graphics are beautiful the controls are precise and weapons are 
 insane. But what truly makes this game worth having is the multiplayer. I don't believe anyone 
 would be disapppointed with this game. This comes from someone who doesn't really like to play 
 FPS on consoles. If you have a PS3 it's a must own. If you don't own one find someone who has one 
 and play this game. Yes it has taken some of the best ideas from other games, but it doesn't stop 
 it from being an absolute joy to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flamesack112
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 29, 2006 10:25 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is a launch title for the PS3 and it may not be any stand out game. Like Halo or Killzone. 
 But it is a very amazing game for the console. Insomniac, the creators of Twisted Metal and Ratchet 
 and Clank bring the elements of destruction from Twisted Metal the war of Halo and the gadgets 
 and cool weapons of Ratchet to create a very interesting and suprisingly awesome FPS. It is a must 
 have for any PS3 owner as the other titles are not so amazing. Specifically Gundam. If your tired 
 of WWII shooters like Call Of Duty 3 the pick up Resistance instead. The single player campaign 
 is quite long and it is very challenging. You will die often. But the gameplay is so fun you probably 
 won't mind doing over a small section. The internet gameplay is very good. It has over 30 person 
 online capability and it is free, unlike Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballto316
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Hello to all my fellow PS3 players, who most likly waited 15+ hours in the cold to get their system. 
 To all of you I give a big thumbs up and a cudos, as you decided to stick with what you loved, 
 dispite all of the negative feedback given (and lies spread) about the PS3. But now back to the 
 game.
  
  Single player mode:
  
  I would like to think that I know my fair share when it comes to first person shooter games, as 
 I myself have a bit of a history with them. For all of you who don't know, back in the day when 
 unreal tournament was THE game for it, I was ranked 26th in all of north america. And I also play 
 my share of Halo, timesplitters, and other great titles of the such. When it comes to Resistance: 
 Fall of man, If your looking for a game that will deliver you something that you have never seen 
 before, then your looking in the wrong place, as the games storyline is basicly described in the 
 commericals for the game. Aliens invade the planet, we are on the bring of extinction, and then 
 out of the blue comes the hero that saves the world. The only variation of this that is slightly 
 differant, is the fact that it's set in era of World War II. Which does bring up a few questions 
 of the weapons that you use, as they are all far advanced the technological era. Granted this is 
 explained in some cases with the classic excuse of Alien technology , but at least 40% of the weapons 
 you see, are made by humans, and some are even too advanced for our time. This isn't really a bad 
 thing, in fact, I think if the game used bolt action riffles, it would be much less fun (in certain 
 aspects) , than pulling out the machine gun and wasting the Aliens. I am making note of this for 
 those people who havn't played the game yet, and are expecting the game to be a cross between Day 
 of Defeat (or Call of duty if that's your taste) , and Doom. Now then, with those two comments out 
 of the way, if you are looking for a game that has everything you loved about all the first person 
 shooters you've played before, but does it better than you've probly seen before. Then I would 
 definitly suggest that you pick up this game. The graphics are top notch, gameplay is nice and 
 fast paced, there are plenty of weapons to choose from, as well as a variety of differant uses 
 for them. My personal favorite when it comes to weapons that make your eyes go wide and say Holy 
 **** that's cool! is the aliens main riffle (who's name escapes me at the moment) . The cool thing 
 about it (besides that it's just as strong as the carbine) , is that the secondary fire shoots out 
 a homing beacon, which if you hit your target with it, all of your primary fire, will automaticly 
 move to the beacon, even if your looking the opposite direction.
  
  The other cool weapon in the game would definitly be the Auger , which is your basic machine gun, 
 but with a very fun twist, it can shoot through walls, and pretty much anything. Now I know the 
 first thing that is comming to the mind of all you people is the Farsight gun from perfect dark, 
 but this is almost one better, on top of being able to shoot through (almost) any object in your 
 way, it gets stronger after going through an object! With this gun in your hands, your target has 
 no where that it can run! Ontop of that, the weapons secondary fire is a forcefield that pops out 
 infront of the gun. This shield will block all fire, grenades, and pretty much everything EXCEPT 
 for auger shots. Reason for that being, is that you can use this sheild to power up your own fire, 
 while hiding in cover behind a shield. The only down side of this, is that the sheild only lasts 
 for maybe 6 or 7 seconds before dissapearing, and that it's not much bigger than your character, 
 so if you want to move while using it, it will take some angling.
  
  All in all, single player mode is pretty good, and while I havn't quite finished the game yet, 
 I do get the creeping feeling that once I do, that I won't ever really play it (in single player) 
 ever again.
  
  Online Play.
  
  Online play for this game is alittle screwy I think. To start right from the top of hte tower and 
 work my way down, you actualy can't select which game your going to join. What it does instead, 
 is you pick if your going to play a free-for-all based game (various deathmatch modes) , or Team 
 Based games (Capture the flag, or other team games of the such) . And from there it tosses you into 
 a game with people who are at your level . Meaning, that the game uses a ranking system to try 
 and put you in with people who are your own skill level, so that the game is challanging, while 
 not being being impossible, or at least it's suppose to. When I played it, the game was a mix of 
 people of the lowest rank, to people four ranks higher, so the system doesn't exactly work. You 
 are then braught to a meeting room, where you can see who's playing, do some chatting, and other 
 things like that before the game starts. Not much chatting ever really does happen, as we all know 
 how much it sucks to chat using the PS3. After so much time, the game will automaticly start and 
 the game will begin.
  
  As for the actual gameplay in multiplayer mode, long story short, it's 80% placement, 10% skill, 
 10% hiding. How do I explain that? Well, lets start with placement. While I can't exactly put my 
 finger on how they mess this up, the biggest problem that I noticed with the actual gameplay of 
 multiplayer mode, is that about 4 or 5 seconds after spawning, your dead. How does this happen? 
 Somehow, there is almost always (about 70% of the time) someone right behind you when you spawn, 
 so before you have enough time to take a deep breath (little alone grab a gun other than your starting 
 one) , your already being shot in the back. The other big issue about this, is that most of the 
 spawning points are right next to each other. A good portion of the time (about 40-60% of the time) 
 when you respawn, someone will also respawn either directly next to you ( either to your right 
 or left, but just out of view) , directly behind you (while looking at your back) , or right across 
 from you looking right at you. This is one huge problem that I find, as it causes most people to 
 rush to get the first kill, and doesn't give you any time to properly prepare for the fight, as 
 your usualy dead before you grab your second weapon.
  
  As for the 10% skill part, it's pretty easy to describe, as that's there to represent aiming. While 
 aiming is a very important part to any game, in Resistance, you need it alittle less than in most 
 first person shooters. Granted if you got aim, then your still gonna kick ass, but, it's not needed 
 so much in this game.
  
  As for the 10% hiding. This could just be me and my personal hit and run startegies that work for 
 me, but i've found that I get the most kills out if I first of all, live through the first 10 seconds, 
 but then if I pick up a weapon (hopfully the alien riffle, sniper, or shotgun) and run away for 
 a bit and hide (maybe 30 seconds or so) and then run out and have at it again, that I not only 
 last the longest, but get a fair number of kills. This is even more so if you can get your hands 
 on a sniper riffle, and just sit back and peg off the people who are running around trying to be 
 killed.
  
  Well, that's pretty much my review on the game. All in all, I would say that if you like first 
 person shooters, that you should pick this one up, it's not bad. And dispite the problems that 
 I have found in multiplayer mode, it's still pretty good. Pick it up! ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demon_501
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 29, 2006 5:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is just all around fun to play. Although I liked the I-8 trailer and wish it had looked 
 more like that, it was still a very impresive game. The graphics are great and the game's story 
 is one of the best i've ever played... and i've played alot of games! The game's A. I. is actualy 
 smart , I have found myself beeing flanked very many times and just plain out smarted. The Chimera 
 actualy function as a team. And the blood effects are amazing! But the one thing that I liked the 
 most about Resistance: Fall of Man is the 40 PLAYER ONLINE... for FREE... hooyah!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rbunnell
Rating: 6.8
Date: Dec 29, 2006 9:21 am PT
Review:  Man, if I only didn't have a 360, this game would probably be great. Unfortunately for PS3, the 
 360 is the King of the Shooters and anyone who owns both will agree that this game is decent, but 
 compared to the 360 shooters (FEAR, RS vegas, Gears, Halo 2) , it's just not in the same category. 
 Outside of that, the framerate is not all that good. So, if this is the best that PS3 has to offer 
 as a launch, I am very upset because I regret buying this console to play this game. But, for people 
 who just own a PS3, then this is a decent shooter. Owning just a PS3 is better than owning nothing 
 I suppose. Anyway, A for effort. Hopefully, Killzone 2 will be better, but again with Halo 3 coming 
 out - good luck. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Col_Swamp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  This is the first game that I bought with my ps3. I thought the visuals looked great and the concept 
 was interesting (albeit overdone with the whole alien invasion yada yada yada) . Since this was 
 my first experience with the ps3 I was immediatly captivated by the visuals, they are quite amazing. 
 The gameplay is smooth with great sound and lighting added to the games attributes. The enemies 
 arn't nearly as unintelligent as previous fps games, they will duck and take cover ect. and the 
 first time you have to shake the controller to knock an enemy off of your face is quite thrilling. 
 This game is a must have own for all current ps3 owners. And just think, this game didn't even 
 scratch the surface of the possibilities of the ps3!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mentalhelp
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 29, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man- part Halo, part Call of Duty, and part Doom... wow, interesting. But when 
 I first got this game, I didn't know whether I liked it or not. I guess it's scary, and full of 
 action, but this game is for players who mostly enjoy playing Halo, and Sci-fi stuff. This game 
 is all about killing the Chimera- beasts with alien/ monster-like features who all of a sudden, 
 start killing everyone, and taking over Asia and Europe. Crap about in the 1930's, where there 
 was biological experiments and a virus started infecting everyone. Doesn't really make much sense... I 
 guess it's kind of like Resident evil movies or something- diseased monkeys infected with rage 
 or some bull crap. Anywho, the campaign gets boring after a while, I mean, it's not boring, because 
 you constantly get shot at. Im just saying it's boring because you get constantly shot at. Lol! 
 I am actually scared of those creatures that look like monster zombies that walk slowly over to 
 you, then grab you by the throat and start biting your face off. The co-op is funner. Especially 
 if you have a fun friend. If your friend is boring and doesn't talk much, pimp slap him in the 
 mouth and tell him he needs to be more fun or you'll kill him and eat his spleen, and while your 
 at it, chew on his stomach until you throw up blood and acid. Then, after that, you'll kill his 
 whole family. Uhhhhhh, on second thought... DON'T DO THAT! He will probably either punch you, or 
 he'll call the cops. Christ Im getting off topic. The multiplayer is pretty good. Though the stats 
 and stuff are screwed up right now, they'll fix it, so don't worry. I guess it's kind of cool that 
 you earn ranks and stuff, but please- if you're a novice, go to the match section, where the computer 
 will put you in a match with other people that's never even played before- or have done very badly, 
 because if you suck, it counts on your stats. Ya see, it's like your permanent record, don't do 
 bad. My favorite weapon is the sniper rifle, because I love getting credit for headshots. The music 
 for the game is ..... well .... it's kind of dumb, it's supposed to sound scary, but it just sounds 
 like noise and I don't like it. I LOVE breaking windows. It doesn't matter if you're in campain 
 or multiplayer, the windows look real when smashed or shot. But really, this game looks like a 
 really, really good PS2 game. It kind of has the same graphics as Black. The blood in the game 
 is messed up. It doesn't look real. It doesn't look real when you shoot the bodies over and over 
 either. I wish it were more like Halo 2- though only the blood. Please take my word for it and 
 rent this game. C'mon people, it's 60 bucks. Rent it, see if ya like it, if not, good for you... you've 
 made a fine choice by not buying it. I guess I'll play this game for the multiplayer, and that's 
 it. But, if you have 60 bucks, and you're thinking about buying a great PS3 game, buy Call of Duty 
 3. In my opinion, COD3 exceeds Resistance by a lot of things. Guys, take my word for it, rent Resistance... 
 JUST DO IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gman0222
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jan 3, 2007 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing for a first attempt at a brand new system which hasn't had all the bugs worked 
 out of it...
  
  so all those xbox fans can go to hell because xbox 360 is on like 5th gen games where everything 
 has been worked out of course Resistance isn't the idle perfect game for the PS3. Before you can 
 criticize a game and say it is aweful you should look at all the aspects of the game and the console. 
 The PS3 was just released and I didn't see Gears come out as soon as the 360 was released.
  
  They did pretty damn well imo for a 1st gen game. The graphics are pretty crisp and the gameplay 
 is fun. Of course the game will get old all games do as Gears of War will get old once you beat 
 it 20 times. Resistance is just like any other FPS its run and gun which I like. I played Gears 
 it has a nice gameplay with the hide and shoot rather then run and gun. But give it time once the 
 developers know what the PS3's full potential is then they can use it to its fullest.
  
  I enjoy the multiplayer aspect of the game. You can customize your character as you go up in rank 
 (on ranked servers) . The deathmatch is very fun but never really played any node games so I can't 
 say how that went. Capture the flag is fun because you play both sides of the army The humans and 
 the Chimera. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperSix6075
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 28, 2006 9:17 pm PT
Review:  it coulda been better i havent gotten far enough yet or at least i dont think so to get any new 
 weapons so i cant really judge that yet .. i do like the game play woulda been nice to be able 
 to lean around things and such .. when in fire fights ... one thing is the yellow health bars id 
 rather it be just a long regenerating health bar instead of if you lose a block of health you have 
 to find another ... like a cod3 kinda thing hanging back and letting it regenerate .. overall or 
 at least as far as ive gotten it seems to be good and fun worth the 60$'s hopefully we get a sequal 
 ... hope this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nzitser
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the epitome of a launch title. Easy to get into, takes advantage of the system, and of 
 course, it's just plain fun. It's addicting, keeps you on the edge of your seat ( er... couch?) and 
 is just a blast to play, especially with a couple of friends over. Multiplayer is f***ing nuts, 
 40 player matches are insane, and the ranked game system makes it easy to play against people your 
 own level. So if you have a ps3 (like me and all the other lucky bastards who waited in line for 
 14 hours..) go out and buy this game. If you don't... go out, buy a ps3 and buy this game, end of 
 discussion.
  
  This is the most highly immersive, crazy shooter i've played in a while (it rivals Half life 2 
 and Halo 2) . So go, and buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GEARSpartan0415
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 28, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  When I got my PS3 on Christmas I didn't have any games, but the game I knew I wanted was Resistance, 
 so the next day I buy it and start to play it when I get home. I just loved all the weapons and 
 it had so much action going on on screen. The a. i was very good too. I strongly recommend this 
 game and if you don't have this game with your PS3 yet.......... GO BUY IT!!!! You will not regret 
 it, even if its the only game you get for your PS3 because there isn't that many other good games 
 out for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kameoxylon
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Well i personally like both categories but the bad thing about multiplayer mode is that eventually 
 u will become bored of it . But the good thing is that you get a good train for when ur on campaign 
 .
  
  The bad thing about campaign is that you ' ll find out that your the only 1 fighting this war . 
 your team mates basically pretends to shoot at the enemy and ... die . But you also get a good warm 
 up for when u play multiplayer .
  
  In my opinion they should make a 1st person shooting game that u can actually play campaign mode 
 online . that would be a better game and more challenging . Well like i said its only my opinion 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: May 20, 2007 3:13 am PT
Review:  before I got my PS3 and play this game, I just actually finished playing GeoW on the Xbox360, so 
 be honest, I was hoping to see something even more impressive. So, did I found this game more impressive? 
 I'd say no for graphic-wise, but this game is fun for sure. First thing I notice when I boot up 
 the game is that texture is not as detailed as GeoW, I know I shouldn't compare these two, but 
 I got them both, thoughts just crossing my mind, just can't help it. Then the second thing I found 
 about this game is that it's kinda hard to aim, maybe PS3 controller isn't as FPS-oriented as the 
 360 controller does, so I had a hard time aiming, but I give it a try and learn how to aim well, 
 and it's really fun after you get use to the aiming. The game pace in Resistence is kinda fast, 
 and it plays like run-n-gun type of shooter, very excited gameplay, and the enemy is very active.
 
  Resistence is a great launch title, put any other things aside, just look at this game, it's a 
 great game with nice graphics, offer free 40 ppl online play, and some replay value for you to 
 go back and play the single-player mission again and again.
  It does everything a launch title should offer, I just love this game, hope you will do the same. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Imallvol7
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:07 pm PT
Review:  It's a real shame that the media has decided its going to hate on the PS3, because the hate is 
 brining Resistance down with it. This game isn't even getting Game of the Year NODS and it most 
 definitely should be. I am a huge fan of Halo and Socom and I think that this game (single player 
 and multi player) blow them both outta the water. The weapons are incredibly fun to use, the story 
 is engaging, the online play is smooth without any lag whatsoever. Overall, this game is a masterpiece, 
 even for a regular game. The fact that it's a launch game makes it all the more amazing. I will 
 happily be awaiting Resistance 2 and hope that the press can get over their ignorant squawking 
 and give credit where credit is do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlacKJaCK2290
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 28, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 really didn't have that many great launch titles. But one in particular has stood out, 
 which is R: FOM . Resistance plays like your typical shooter and doesn't really initiate that many 
 new gameplay features. But what it does do well is build upon the base created by genre games before 
 it. The story is original, the weapons are awsome, the character you play is a one man killing 
 machine. The game is no pushover either. Even on medium difficulty there are sections that will 
 make you pull your hair out. I constantly found myself saying I NEED A CHECKPOINT as sometimes 
 they can seem few and far between. The single player is a solid experience all around, however 
 it does get rather boring during the middle missions. But where this game really shines is its 
 only play. Which is 40 players in a single room, with no lag. Both the Human and Chimara sides 
 are well balanced online and the cool weapons from sp are in online play as well. The game looks 
 fantastic as well, definitly a next gen graphical experience. The sound and in game score throughout 
 the SP and Online are also top notch. THis IS the must game to own for the PS3 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchef1000
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 27, 2006 5:49 pm PT
Review:  In Resistance Fall of Man not only does the campain constantly refresh itself, but you can play 
 with co-op with a friend as well. The graphics are top notch, sound is okay, and the shooting is 
 flat out fun. However, the main reason to get this game is because of its ONLINE. Online is simply 
 the best online I have every played. It ranks you into playing other people with similar ranks 
 beautifuly, so that you never play someone too easy or someone to hard. Supporting 40 people lag 
 free also doesn't hurt. Little satisfying touches such as tagging someone online with the Bullseye 
 gun and raining bullets and executing stealth kills make the multiplayer replayable for years. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigun0006
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 27, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is good, really good. the single player is amazing and really fun. The city battles are 
 some of the best battles ever in a video game, especiall manchester and london. The weapons are 
 all great and fun to use. The only thing the game needs more is vehicle battles. The fun of single 
 player doubles in coop, with the addition of healing and increases enemies. The online is even 
 more fun with great ranked matches, ribbons and many match types. Since ive had my ps3, ive spent 
 just about every night up till 3 playing online just because its that fun. if you own a ps3 and 
 dont have a game, you better have atleast fight night round 3 and ridge racer, because they are 
 the only game combonation to kind of justify your crime against humanity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:46 am PT
Review:  Those of you without a PS3 now have a reason to buy one. That reason comes in the form of the launch 
 title Resistance: Fall of Man. This game is created by Insomniac so right away you know it's stupidly 
 addictive. The gameplay in this game is always fun and intense. Even if you die in one part and 
 have to come back, it won't ever feel like you are going through the same battle twice. The graphics 
 in this game are really a good showpiece of what the PS3 can do and the animations are non-repetitive. 
 The graphics are exceptionally good in cut-scenes where everyone and everything is rendered with 
 incredible detail. The music during the game only makes it more intense and it always seems to 
 change at the right time. If you own a PS3 get this game and if you don't... well I pity you for 
 the fact that you can't play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 27, 2006 10:27 am PT
Review:  resistance: fall of man has a good story that starts off intense and the offline is really good 
 and is like a mixture of call of duty and halo. one of the things in this game that makes it really 
 good its the unique arsenal of weapons and gernades. the online play is really good as well sony 
 did a good job this time and insomniac games as well because the online play is amazing and addicting. 
 with 5 different modes to play and up to 40people and over 7 maps and a aresnal of unique weapons 
 you wont put the contoller down. I recommend any one with a ps3 to go buy this game you are missing 
 out on a amazing game if you dont play this and if you cant buy it you need to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix8387
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 27, 2006 8:43 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: The single player campaign is very gripping. You'll often tell yourself just one more 
 level and I'll go to bed... then five later you'll still be playing. But as with most shooters 
 the single player game isn't where the most action is, you need to head online or hook up with 
 some friends for multiplayer to get the most out of the game.
  
  Graphics: The games graphics are a big step away from the past Insomniac releases. They've stepped 
 away from their usual bright colors and cartoonish characters and have made a truly amazing environment. 
 Even on a non-HDTV the graphics will impress most, but when you plug it into a HDTV is when it 
 really shines.
  
  Sound: The sound was good, not the best I've heard but it does its job quite nicely.
  
  Replayability: 
 Not exceedingly high, but then again what great shooter is? Most people will spend their time playing 
 multiplayer anyway, which is where any good shooters value is.
  
  Extras: By doing little things during the game you can earn skill points which will unlock Concept 
 Art, a Behind the Scenes video and other additional skins and extras.
  
  In all, this is by far the PS3's best launch title. If you're a shooter fan or just want a great 
 solid game for the PS3 you just have to go with Resistance: Fall of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajorGamer531
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:41 pm PT
Review:  The game plays extremely well. It contains a healthy balance of both agressive and defensive play 
 to keep you paying attention to what is going on around you. The AI is very well done. All monsters 
 have good path finding skills and advance the way they should, typically focusing on the first 
 target they see until they are shot from someone else.
  The graphics are in the upper-level of the current new gen games and deserve their credit.
  Sound 
 for all weapons match up the way you would expect them and unique music intensifies important moments 
 in the game.
  On the value, I would say buy it. If you have a ps3, buy it. It will entertain you and is probabley 
 one of the best new gen games out.
  Personally, I say its a very well-rounded game that takes elements of Half-Life, Doom, and Halo 
 and blends them to its on unique experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thejoe8pizza
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  ok let me just start out by saying i have read some of the bad reviews and and most f them are 
 like oh the Ps3 sucks i just love my xbox i'm going to return it is a freaking lair and an xbox 
 fan boy (might not even own a PS3) who is pissed off that there hobo box has some competion. cause 
 anyone who waited in line to get a PS3 wouldn't just return it. I know this cause my friend is 
 one of these people. And another thing people are saying wow is this all the Ps3 has got if you 
 remeber last year the xbox lunch line-up crap too. Ok enough of my rambling on to the game...
 
  
  While good it is no Halo-killer (i haven't played Gears of War yet) but probably the best launch 
 tittle ever. With it's good story and unique weapon choose. i haven't finished the gae yet. Since 
 i got my PS3 on christmas eve i have been playing i wth every free second (dead freaking serious) . 
 The online is awsome 40 are you kinding i played for 4 hours striaght. But afer a while it starts 
 to seem the same. overal i loved it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tungsten88
Rating: 8.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:04 pm PT
Review:  FPSs are old. They are a dime-a-dozen these days, but Resistance brings something new to the table. 
 Gameplay- pretty good. The action sequences are appropriately tense, but the maps aren't well designed, 
 so you'll find yourself lost quite a few times. Enemies are interesting to face and kill, as are 
 the numerous weapon effects.
  
  Graphics- are great for last gen. I expected more of them, but some of the textures are gross, 
 even on an HDTV
  
  Sound- mediocre. Not fantastic, but it gets by.
  
  Value- Multiplayer will keep you occupied and the singleplayer will keep you coming back.
  
 
  Closing comments- could have been so much more, but it needed attention to
  sound, graphics, and level design. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eric_bauer89
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 26, 2006 4:19 pm PT
Review:  For a launch title, this is a definite must for all current PS3 owners. I have beaten it on Cooperative 
 and on Campaign with many more times spent playing it to come. I have sampled the online capabilities 
 but not enough to get a great grasp on it. It is definitely a game where you start to play, and 
 next thing you know, you have been playing it for 3+ hours. It isn't the kind of game you buy the 
 PS3 only to play this. But with the PS3 just out on the market and many years to come for more 
 developers to get a good grasp on the machine's power, you will be amazed! Great purchase for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 8.6
Date: Dec 26, 2006 10:25 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is typical launch game. Usually launch games are nothing more then last 
 gen games with a few enhancements to bring them up to date. Resistance falls into this category. 
 Thats not to say that the game is bad. Far from it. Even though the game relies heavily on concepts 
 used on earlier FPS games, it manages to do everything as good if not better then those before 
 it. If that were all I would have liked Resistance but there is more. The graphics are good. Not 
 jaw dropping good, but good. The larger battles really show the power of the graphics engine as 
 explosions are going off all around you, and people are fighting monsters. It almost makes you 
 want to stop playing and just watch. But in small battles inside building and such the game looks 
 a little bland. The monsters nearly all look alike so it can get a little boring blowing away the 
 same monster again and again. The weapons are some of the coolest around. Apart from the usual 
 assault rifle you get homing rifles, shrapnel grenades, guns that can shoot through walls, and 
 even nicer weapons to slaughter your way through the game with. Although you can play the game 
 using mostly your assault rifle a good player will utilize all the weapons in the game. The game 
 play is fast and can quickly become overwhelming if you rush into battle too quickly. The sixaxes 
 controller motion sencing ability are not used to any real extent. You are required to use it when 
 a monster grabs a hold of you, but beyond that the motion sensing ability is little used. The online 
 play is good but not great. It has the usual deathmatch, capture the flag, and breach but online 
 play isn't the strong point of the game. The sound is overall good, the monsters shout in their 
 own language, and the solders shout orders to each other. I did find some sound issues when effects 
 or background music would simply not play. It is rare but it did happen. The good:
  Good graphics in large battles, nice new weapons, free online play, fun all around gameplay.
 
  
  the bad:
  repeative enemies, weak story, no co-op online, limited sixaxis motion control.
  
  despite 
 not being the most original FPS around, it is one of the best. If this had co-op online I would 
 have loved it even more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Friorey
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:49 am PT
Review:  This Game Is Perfect, Amazing And 
  I Don&amp;#65287; T Think There Would Come A Game And Beat It Even Halo!!!!!!!!!!!
  The Graphics 
 Rocks The Gameplay Is Wonderful And The Story Is Brilliant Who Cares About Online Playing And Stuff 
 Like That For All People Who Didnt Buy The Game I Tell U What The **** Are U Waiting For Go And 
 Buy It Is Worth Playing And Ideal While I Was Playing The Game I Felt Haven It Is Revolutionary 
 And Amazing And For All People Who Buy the game GOOD FOR U and for all the people who didnt like 
 it I tell u there is no game that u are going to like !!!!!!!!!!!!! SAYONARA !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: higher-law
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:09 am PT
Review:  When I first got my PS3 a few days ago, I knew this was the first game I should get. Boy was I 
 right! This game is the best PS3 game I own at this point. Mostly everything is done right from 
 the graphics to the enemy AI to the amazing online play. Now I have also played Gears of War and 
 if you are hoping that this game will top it I think you may be dissapointed (although it does 
 come down to personal preference) , but enough with that comparison. This is a great solid first 
 gen FPS for the PS3. When have we seen such great FPS games this early for a PS console? This game 
 truly deserves the recognition it is getting!
  
  Gameplay - 10/10
  This game is not like your everyday run and gun kind of game. Rather it is more like COD where 
 cover is essential. This element makes the game challenging and at the same time, very fun! The 
 campaign is very engaging and is just pack filled with intense fire fights and cutscenes. The cutscenes 
 are not too long and boring, which is great for when you want to follow the story, but you just 
 want to kill some Chimera! I feel that the perfect balance of cutscene and actual play has been 
 reached here. There are a large variety of weapons which you can use. These weapons are quite interesting 
 and different. Weapons like the Auger can shoot threw walls or create a defensive shield. Things 
 of that nature. The online play, although at its infancy is great fun and addictive! It has been 
 able to keep me from beating the campaign because it is just that great. The online mode has rankings, 
 clans, a buddy system, chat, and many game modes you can play. Among them are Deathmatch, Team 
 Deathmatch, Conversion, Meltdown, and Breach. Up to 40 players can be in a game, no lag, no hassle. 
 Awesome, 10 out of 10.
  
  Graphics - 9/10
  I don't think there is much to complain about with the graphics. For a first gen PS3 game I am 
 very impressed. I had to play the game on an old SDTV and I still saw a clear step up from the 
 PS2. The details on the enemies are marvelous and the lighting is perfect. I must not forget to 
 mention, the snow in this game is just mind blowingly beautiful. I actually had to take a moment 
 to stop blowing Chimeran head to take a look at it. Amazing! The texturing is great in most areas 
 but some could use a bit more work. Nonetheless the graphics are top notch and I cannot wait to 
 see what the PS3 can produce later on!
  
  Sound - 10/10
  The sound in this game is very crisp and real. The guns actually sound like guns and the bombs 
 actually sound like bombs. What more can you ask for? I really don't have anything to complain 
 about here, a 10 from me.
  
  This game is a must have for any FPS fans that own a PS3 right now. Heck give it a shot even if 
 you aren't a FPS fan. I know a bunch of friends that tried it over at my house or other friends' 
 houses and although they were not FPS fans when they walked in the door, they were certainly FPS 
 fans walking out! The coop campaign mode is great fun to play with a bud and the online mode makes 
 this game last a lifetime. Get it now (if you have a PS3) , it is the best bang for buck you can 
 get!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepto13
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 26, 2006 12:05 am PT
Review:  This games gameplay starts out a little slow. But then all of a sudden the gameplay becomes a very 
 very fast paced shooting showdown! This is pretty much the bes FPS gameplay i have ever played. 
 You will end up shooting 50 Chimera at a time with no lag. I also love the 6 axis controls for 
 shakeing the Chimera of your throat. Tthe graphics are amazing! everything has a shine to it. the 
 Chimera are very well designed! I am a little disapointed about no online coop but i cant complain 
 with 40 player online battles. This game was deffinatly the Ps3 best launch title! If you have 
 a Ps3 this is a must get FPS!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R3SP3CT_
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:11 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man (PS3)
  
  - Resistance: Fall of Man from Insomniac Games is the best PS3 launch title. The game puts you 
 and your teammates again the Chimera ( pretty much aliens) , to save the world. Ohh did I mention 
 this is in a time when World War 2 never happned. Yea that's kind of an important part, well lets 
 get on with the review.
  
  GRAPHICS: 9
  
  - For a launch title this game looks pretty good. While the graphics may not be as good as 360's 
 Gears of War, this game looks great in its own respect. The character models and the Chimeran models 
 look great, and their animations are done nicley as well. The effects such as explosions and fire 
 are done nicley and really add to the feel of a real battlefield. This game also has some of the 
 best glass physics ever.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9
  
  - Lets be honest, this is just another first person shooter. And while its not necessarly a WWII 
 shooter (thank God) , its pretty close, instead of fighting Nazi's you fight a mysterious alien 
 type race called the Chimera. What sets this game apart from the rest is the weapons, the weapons 
 in the game are very unique. These weapons are very unique, but they don't really add that much 
 to the game. This game shines in online play though, where in this day and age it really matters, 
 40-players can play on one map at a time, which is a great achievement, especially for a launch 
 title, and the online is virtually lag-free, and FREE.
  
  SOUND: 8
  
  - The sounds of the game are nothing that will amaze you, most of them you've probably heard (in 
 one way or another) . Basic shooting sounds, reaction to hit sounds, etc. Sounds of the game are 
 nothing special, but they are done niceley, and fit the mood of game. VALUE:
  
  - If you've bought a PS3 at launch, this is the must have game. While the single-player may not 
 be very long (i beat the game in 12 hours) , the multiplayer is amazing and FREE, I can see that 
 the developers really devoted some time to make the online really great. Having 20 vs 20 battles 
 online is really great. Even if you can't connect to the Playstation Network Platform, this game 
 is still worth the money as it does offer Offline Multi-player, which isin't as good but still 
 gets the job done.
  
  Overall:
  
  - This is the must have game for the Playstation 3 in 2006. It has great online and offline modes, 
 and is really the only good game for the PS3 (so far that is.) The game has great graphics and 
 the gameplay while nothing too new is still addictive and great. This is a really good game, and 
 if you've got a PS3 and don't have this game I'd reccomed you to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jake1237263827
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2006 6:07 pm PT
Review:  nothing in any other game i played felt more rewarding then just unloading on a chimera with a 
 bullseye machine gun to the face. This game has it all, graphics, violence, cool gadgets, and of 
 coarse, the blood thirsty alien race that would like nothing more than to eat for you for the christmas 
 dinners main coarse. The games story line is that halos' couldn't match. although, it has a halo 
 like feel to it. the co-op is insane and sadly, i havn't tried the online yet.
  
  so take it from me, a die hard PS fan, this game is the **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dbzfreak
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 3:35 pm PT
Review:  This game is worth the price tag and it definitely makes the PS3 shine. First off the graphics 
 are incredible, probably the best looking launch title for the PS3. The gameplay is also fun and 
 fluid. The game is from the makers of Ratchet and Clank, the team seemed to bring over the crazy 
 weapons notion. There are weapons in the game that I have yet to see in other FPS games. This adds 
 some depth and fun to the game. You have different options for taking out bad guys. For instance 
 their is a sapper gun which basically lays out sticky bubble like mines, they explode when enemy 
 goes near them. So let's say a group of enemies maybe approaching you in the game, you can sap 
 them or try taking them out with a grenade or use both. The game is extremely open ended in this 
 regard, in the sense it gives you plenty of weapons and ways to use them on enemies.
  
  The multiplayer and co-op modes are a blast to play through as well. I noticed rarely any lag when 
 playing online against other people. It's definitely a joy to play through. You can also customize 
 your character a bit, through doing certain tasks in the game, such as killing certain things in 
 a certain time or finding certain documents. You can choose to play as the Chimera or humans also. 
 All these features and more in multiplayer make it a great experience.
  
  The sound quality is also great. From the sound effects of the chimera growling or barking orders 
 to the sound of just your guy walking, it's great all around. You actually feel as if you are part 
 of some big action movie.
  
  The only thing really lacking in the game is the story. It's a decent story, just feels like it 
 needs more. However they do leave it open for a sequel. I won't give away the ending though.
  
  If you own a PS3 and don't have this game, then shame on you. If you want a reason to own a 
 PS3 this may sway you over to get one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kholdstareo1
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is easily the best of the ps3 launch titles, which isn't really saying much, but it's 
 a damn fine game on it's own. Throughout the game's campaign, you play as a soldier named Nathan 
 Hale, a sincere badass who does things alone. Why alone? Because every time you get an ally, don't 
 be surprised if they die within 0.02 seconds. It's not that they're stupid, although they run around 
 aimlessly when there are no enemies around, but that this game was pretty much developed for you 
 to duke it out with the nOObs singlehandedly.
  About 10 minutes into the game, your guy gets attacked by thousands of these little bugs, which 
 infect him with the chimeran virus. What this will do is slowly turn you into a chimera, although 
 don't expect to actually go all-out chimera during the game and pwn some baddies. That was actually 
 an element in the game i was hoping to see, but regardless, it's still great fun. Along the way 
 you'll get some cool guns, which are fun to use, and are diverse enough so you'll end up finding 
 a gun to suit your style in every situation. The campaign's story isn't incredibly engaging and 
 cinematic, but it's interesting enough to make you wonder what will happen next, but the game boasts 
 great replay value with tons of unlockables. For instance, you get skill points for doing certain 
 things, like running over 5 chimera backwards in a car, killing 5 enemies in a row with a single 
 grenade, killing enemies with non-weapon damage, squatting over fallen enemies and so on. It's 
 entertaining and rewarding to unlock a skill point, and when you collect enough skill points, the 
 game will unlock concept art and even little easter eggs, like ratchet (from Ratchet and Clank 
 ) backpacks on friendly soldiers. Also, by beating the campaign again and again, you unlock new 
 weapons for your next go-around. You won't get many chances to use these new weapons (ammo is very 
 scarce) but they're fun to sue while you have them. But the element that really makes this game 
 worth owning is 40-player online multiplayer, with fun game modes, and hopefully more to come with 
 free download content, which effectively increases this game's longevity by hundreds of hours. 
 Also, you can slap down a good $66 bucks CAD for an extra remote, and have a 2-4player split-screen 
 with your friends.
  Also, the game's ending leaves a wide opening for a sequel, which will most likely address some 
 issues in the game, like graphics (they're really pretty, but you can tell this was rushed out 
 the door for the ps3's launch) , and adding some new gameplay elements to make this game really 
 stand out from the crowd. All in all, if you chipped in for a ps3 (or won one in a draw like me 
 :P ) , this game is a must-own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ArchfiendKing
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 25, 2006 11:45 am PT
Review:  Wow. Who made this game again? Insomniac Games!? I thought they did those Ratchet and Clank games! 
 The truth is, not only do they make cool platform games, they make a heck of a good FPS for the 
 PS3! Not only does Resistance try to break away from the standard war reenaction game style, it 
 excels at it. Another great thing is that after you beat the game once, i begs to be played over. 
 Cool new weapons, and a lot more of a challenge in higher difficulties. One of the many other awesome 
 parts, is the Multiplayer. There's a lot of different modes to play in, includuing some in which 
 you get to be one of the Chimera (the main enemies in the game.) This is definitely a must-have.
 
  
  All-in-all, if you just bought a PS3, and you're not sure what to get, get this. It -might- not 
 be your favorite style, but not much beats killing countless aliens with hi-tech guns and grenades. 
 Definitley worth the 60 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3em6epek
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 25, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  This is the only game I own for the PS3, and I was a little bit disappointed by everything when 
 I initially started playing because I was so used to being a bad-ass in Gears of War. Having said 
 that, i think the game grew on me as i actually started playing it. it definitely feels like a 
 cross-breed between gears of war (inexplicably powerful race of monsters that dwells in underground 
 tunnels and decides to emerge one day to take over the world) and call of duty 2 and 3 (WW2 setting 
 obviously, gameplay, etc.) . the Insomniac games touch is very noticeable when it comes to the weapon 
 selection system, because it's exactly the same as in their ratchet and clank franchise. i think 
 all these components were combined quite well to create an enjoyable, somewhat unique gaming experience. 
 the environments are great. plenty of foes and weapons/bullets to kill them with will ensure that 
 you're not bored as you're walking around wondering what you need to do next. I was a little bit 
 surprised that there is really nothing telling you what your objectives are, nor is there a map 
 available telling you exactly where you are. how hard is it to justify a map layout when Hale has 
 been finding all kinds of documents left and right ? i also started wondering why the chimera were 
 in fact called chimera... because they look nothing like the chimera from greek mythology, except 
 for the tough lion-like creatures that take forever to kill. i thought that the name selection 
 for the foes could have been a little bit more creative (perhaps some word from the Russian language, 
 since they root from there) . i don't agree with some of the reviews stating that the gameplay is 
 exactly like COD. in COD i know what to expect when i turn the corner, more Germans. I thought 
 that resistance offered a good variety of chimera coming at you with each next stage. unique weapons 
 system lets you experiment a little bit. i found myself going with bullseye a lot, but i definitely 
 turned to some other weapons when bullseye just didnt cut it. overall, i found the game engaging, 
 easy to learn and play, and pretty innovative. I give it 8.9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamemaster749
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2006 4:09 am PT
Review:  this game is from one of my fav developer insomniac game the same guy who made the awsome game 
 series ratchet and clank games come this sweet first person shooter. when i started playing this 
 game i thought wow this game looks sweet and how there is no resolution vertical line blips as 
 what i like to call them thanks to the new blu ray discs. the controler sizaxis movement is kind 
 of used well in this game but the only thing it is used for in this game is to shake off enimes 
 that cling on you. Loading time is almost do not exist and game play runs smooth as butter woot. 
 this is a must have game for all the FPS games out there! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixsense
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 25, 2006 12:50 am PT
Review:  Where Am I?
  Consider yourself in the middle of a battle field where two huge metal spiders are crawling around 
 a snowy city while an opposing enemy throws a grenade sending hundreds of needles in every direction. 
 Some piercing its own allies and others killing your comrades. You take your gun raise it at the 
 enemy spider and before you can even get off a shot the metal giant have already turned its turrets 
 on you as well as the other 30 to 40 chimera in the general vicinity. You start firing aimlessly 
 while stepping backwards throwing an air fuel grenade which emits a large area of gas into the 
 air around a squad of 5-10 chimera. The gas then lights and the entire squad are burned black while 
 the stalkers slowly walk through the smoke. You then take out another weapon in your ever expanding 
 arsenal and use the alternate fire to create an electric barrier in front of you. The Stalkers 
 Ammo is repelled off of the electrical shield while you turn around and run into an abandoned house 
 hold. From their, you get behind a cracked brick wall and begin to fire your weapons shots directly 
 through the bricks and into the cockpit of the robotic spider. You look to your left and you see 
 Laark ammo on the floor. Loading your cannon you hide behind the wall and wait for the fire to 
 stop. The stalkers turret has overheated and you take this opportunity to come peak your head outside 
 the window and fire off two rockets directly into the body of the beast. It explodes, filling the 
 air with smoke and metal legs all over the disassembled city block. Immediately you see a golden 
 shine on the ceiling above you. Natural Instincts force you to take four steps backward as golden 
 beams of light drip from the ceiling like rain. Quickly using the same munitions you fire your 
 own shots into the ceiling and suddenly things are oddly silent. It then takes you less then a 
 second to analyze what's going on. Coming to the realization that you have dozens of chimera outside 
 of the building shooting inwards, an auger carrying chimera on the second floor of your supposed 
 safe spot, and now a large organic spider breaking open a fence to your left spewing large bubbles 
 of acid. You think about your comrades and if it's possible they could help, but to your dismay 
 you see that they're all busy holding off the western front where even more chimera and another 
 stalker waits...
  
  Story
  These are the types of situations that Resistance constantly puts you into during the campaign 
 and all need to be handled strategically based on the weapons that you carry. How much you may 
 or may not like the story of Resistance is up to your personal preference really. If you enjoy 
 being a detective and finding clues to further explain a rather cryptic storyline then this game 
 is perfect for you. But on the other hand if you like stories that reveal everything straight up 
 and puts everything on the table then this story may not be for you. Basically instead of World 
 War II occurring many events that did not happen in our own reality lead up to a large scale chimeran 
 attack beginning in Russia to eventually snowball its way to Britain. The only place in Europe 
 the Chimera has yet to either convert or completely destroy. Now chimera's origins, reasons for 
 attack and relations to another strange yet unseen group are explained somewhat in the story, but 
 you'll find most of this information through Intel somewhat hidden within each stage. Nathan Hale 
 the stories hero came from Americas attempt to help out Europe in this growingly impossible war. 
 As the story gets to the halfway point of the first level something strange happens to Hale, which 
 results in him gaining the positive attributes of your average chimeran soldier. One being regenerative 
 powers due to the Chimera's high metabolism, and the other is increasingly fast reflexes and reactions. 
 The story is well put together and done in a History Channel Esque way of narration by a British 
 female commanding officer.
  
  Game Play
  The game play mechanics are of course that of your average first person shooter. The default controls 
 (everything is customizable) have you shooting with R1. Secondary fire is done with L1, while L2 
 is for crouching and R2 is for either bringing up a weapon switch menu by holding down the button 
 or a quick switch by simply tapping it. During the single player campaign the game pauses when 
 you hold down R2 to change your weapons, but if you play Co op through the campaign, then the pause 
 is taken off meaning less time to really sit and think what weapon is best for that certain scenario. 
 Controls are tight and you'll never see a bullet fly past your head and still damage you or the 
 other way around. Your fire will show its affect on the chimera wherever your bullet pierces skin, 
 clothing, or armor. Resistance also offers more then one way to handle the various battles and 
 you find yourself actually using every means of attack you obtain out of pure necessity. It's too 
 many times in shooters where I find myself using only one weapon exclusively when I have an array 
 of weapons under my belt, but luckily Insomniac has addressed this problem by including weapons 
 that are all useful. Don't let the standard Assault Rifle, Shotgun, and sniper rifle fool you. 
 There is a healthy supply of weaponry here and all are fun, useful and highly original. Each gun 
 has a good purpose and it's up to you as Nathan Hale to really figure what each gun is best for 
 and trust me... each gun will either save you on many various occasions or provide you with an experience 
 you will never forget.
  
  As for other game play features. Resistance offers offline cooperative play with a friend, which 
 adjusts the difficulty level by adding more enemies, tougher AI, and other surprises. An offline 
 death match providing matches for up to 4 players. Unfortunately there are no bots in this game 
 so you will have to venture online for the famed 40 player battles everyone's been talking about. 
 Oh and trust me you don't want to miss out on the online play. I don't want to spoil anything from 
 the game, but there are also vehicles. Vehicles that are extremely easy to use and provide the 
 player with a whole lot of fun. Basically things get intense and that's what Resistance will be 
 known for to the players who have completed the game.
  
  FrameRate?
  As for lag and glitches, I must say I've seen close to none. Actually I've never experienced lag, 
 but if I must say something negative then I'll say that your comrades Ai could use some work. They 
 are not nearly as intelligent as your enemies and they more or less are cannon fodder. The game 
 offers things called Hero Moments where you can actually save a soldiers life, but eventually they 
 will most likely die anyway.
  
  Environment
  Now the environments are always different with every level and provide the player with an experience 
 that will not only cause complete immersion, but also make them look in awe as snow falls and over 
 40 soldiers battle it out on a burned and close to completely destroyed avenue. At the same time 
 large metal spiders trot around trees and over rubble. Now I've yet to see level designs this impressive 
 in a long time, and the variations in level designs are increasingly impressive as well. You will 
 start the game with two levels very similar to what you'd expect to see in a World War II game, 
 but immediately after that you will be thrust into a dark and claustrophobic abandoned pier covered 
 in smog and alien architecture. The game can be completely quiet then down the hallway of a dark 
 corridor a shadow will sprint by. The game will let out a suspenseful screech and from there you 
 will be left in silence. You will actually be afraid to turn corners and the game does a great 
 job of creating these growing emotions through its various battlefields. Levels span from huge 
 all out wars in a destroyed city, to abandoned military bases where a flashlight is needed simply 
 to navigate its long hallways and disturbing laboratories. I mean you even get to walk through 
 dark subway cars with some being at weird angles providing a very cool level.
  
  The sounds of explosions and footsteps further your immersion into the game. You will hear faint 
 screams in the smaller areas and lines of huge explosions from the larger maps. Sound will often 
 save your life as well as each gun makes a specific noise that will basically let you know someone's 
 there and they're using a specific gun giving you time to choose the right weapon to take down 
 this opposing threat.
  
  Graphics are not bad at all due to the games environments. But sometimes you will likely notice 
 some textures looking rather simplistic compared to the rest of the games beautiful scenery. Character 
 models are amazing, but sometimes these piles of pebbles just look so jagged that I want to take 
 a pencil and shade the poor rocks in myself. Anyway, other then the very rare low textured pile 
 of rocks you will stand in awe at the presentation of the battlefields and claustrophobic indoor 
 fights. In my opinion I see the graphics getting better and better as the game progresses. Each 
 level is more visually stunning then the last and the game simply becomes more and more exciting 
 as you continue on the 10 to 15 hour journey.
  
  Negatives
  Negatives. Every game has them and this one doesn't get by without a few cuts and bruises. Now 
 if I were to sit here and name off every fault Resistance has then I'd simply be nit picking. Because 
 honestly this game doesn't have many faults. But I must name some for the sake of this review and 
 I'll try my best to list them here. Okay so your comrades Ai is plain dumb. They barely help you 
 at all, except for the fact they sometimes direct enemy fire away from you for about a split second. 
 The graphics are not the best in the industry and the lack of online cooperative play brings a 
 tear to my eye. This games campaign would shine brighter then the sun if it had online cooperative. 
 It almost seems like it could have been a need and not a simple want. And last, but not least the 
 hybrids, although always seeming to put up a different fight are used a bit much throughout the 
 game. They are definitely a fun enemy to fight, but Insomniac could have used more of its huge 
 variety of enemies during the single player.
  
  Are you going to want to play this over?
  Replay ability... The game is definitely one you'll want to show off to your friends. This is the 
 type of game that you will invite a friend over to try and complete the co op campaign with. It 
 is highly addictive and will provoke you to replay the game the moment you finish the last level. 
 It actually includes hidden weapons that were not available on your first play through and other 
 information that could help you learn more about the games story line. Another reason to the games 
 replay ability is it's interesting and fun to use weaponry. Even the grenades are extremely fun. 
 I won't go into details about the guns, but I will say that every gun is worth using and each have 
 a purpose. You could certainly choose to the go through the game on easy with the standard assault 
 rifles, but if you wanted to try the game on medium or any of the other higher difficulties then 
 you will without a doubt sit down and learn exactly how to use these weapons that mean the difference 
 between life and death. Simply learning the uses of each gun adds replay value, and on top of that 
 you get more guns after playing through a second time. Every weapon has a secondary fire option 
 and often times help make the gun what it is. On top of the awesome weaponry, you will discover 
 that the Ai is not stupid. They will duck behind cover and in some cases flank you and your squad 
 or cooperative partner. You will not be able to sit behind cover forever because they will have 
 one chimera shoot the place where you might want to stick your head out to fire while another chimeran 
 soldier runs behind you and beats you down with his rifle. I also was in many firefights where 
 the enemy would throw an unprecedented amount of grenades. I continued to die pathetically, but 
 instead of becoming frustrated with the game I was actually excited instead.
  
  Online
  A huge factor about Resistance that really makes the game stand out, is the online portion. Insomniac 
 really pulled out all the stops here and created a game that could keep you busy for weeks, let 
 alone months and possibly years to come. There are two types of online games, ranked and unranked. 
 Battles fought from the beginning of a match, which most of the time consists of two rounds give 
 the player experience points that help him level up to different ranks allowing the player to unlock 
 multiple helmets, heads, skins, accessories and more to individualize your online avatar. Modes?
 
  There are 6 modes of play including Breach, which is a 40 man game about capturing nodes closer 
 to the opposing team's reactor so that you can spawn closer every time you die so that you can 
 eventually destroy your target. Meltdown, which is a smaller version of breach. Conversion, a spin 
 on the standard death match mode where every player starts as a human, and if you are killed then 
 you re spawn as a chimer then if you die from there its over. Team Death match, which is your standard 
 kill anyone on the opposing team and gain points from simply taking out your target or assisting 
 others in taking out a target. Death match, which is the same as team death match except your alone. 
 And last, but not least Capture the Flag, which has one team try to capture the flag and bring 
 it back to their own base. In the unranked games, all those modes are customizable with the ability 
 to take certain guns out of the mix, adjust the amount of points it takes to win, decide whether 
 you want humans vs. chimera, chimera vs. chimera, humans vs. humans, or even humans and chimera, 
 vs. humans and chimera. Maps
  The maps can also be scaled to be large or small depending on the amount of players in a game. 
 Maps range from allowing 8, 16, 32 and 40. Humans and Chimera have different abilities that are 
 activated with the L2 button. Humans can sprint by tapping the L2 button, but they have no aimer 
 during the sprint, while Chimera can go into a rage mode that allows them to see life forms in 
 the shape of glowing purple silhouettes through walls and other barriers. Humans also have a radar 
 that allows them to see enemies on the map, while chimera's firepower increases when they go into 
 rage mode, but overheat and lose life if they stay in rage mode too long.
  Balance?
  The game is wonderfully balanced and I've used many guns online in many different ways to counter 
 many guns that I thought were cheap, but turned out to have weaknesses. I've also had situations 
 where I thought I was being cheap to only discover that someone had used a gun that I thought was 
 weak to completely dominate me. Resistance Players often say that the Chimera's rage make it very 
 difficult for a human to win in a gun fight due to the Chimera's increase in firepower, but while 
 the Chimera may be strong in rage mode, the humans have infinite sprint meaning a very easy time 
 in capture the flag games or other modes that require moving a large distance. Chimera start the 
 match out with the standard alien rifle which has poor accuracy unless you hit the enemy with a 
 tag, which usually creates instant death for those hit by it, while the humans start off with the 
 carbine assault rifle, which is more accurate, fires from a longer range, does more damage to chimera, 
 but has a lower firing rate then the chimeran rifle and less ammo per clip.
  Lag?
  I've yet to encounter lag no matter what size game I am in, or how many explosions or players are 
 on the screen at once. The only strange things I've seen are of people standing still and taking 
 more shots then normal before they die, but that's pretty much it. You won't see lag players or 
 glitchers exposing any flaws, and so far everything has gone well.
  Online Features
  Match making is done through ranked games and playing with friends is extremely easy with the games 
 party system. You can create a party of your friends (up to 20 players) or other players, then 
 move from one game to another, while dragging all the members of your party with you and on to 
 your own team. It's a great feature and has been very useful so far. The game also has an extremely 
 detailed stat tracking book, which allows you to look at your best weapon, worst weapon, various 
 ribbons and medals you've earned and how many times you've earned them (headshots, melee kills 
 etc.) , in game achievements like who beat the campaign, obtaining 100 kills with a certain gun 
 etc., shots fired of a particular gun, kills with that gun, accuracy of that gun, and many more. 
 After a game you can also see who you were killed the most by and who you killed the most of. There 
 is also a list of players you've recently played with so you can easily send a friend invite just 
 in case you forgot to do so after the game. Voice chat is very clear due to Insomniac paying Voice 
 Age to increase the audio of the headset chatting, and so far the community seems to be growing 
 at a slow, but progressive pace. This game online is simply fun and addicting as well with huge 
 very detailed maps offering 11 locations, but completely different when scaled down. Some portions 
 of the smaller maps aren't even on the larger 40 player maps, so if you were to actually count 
 the areas it'd be about 20 or so. Games are often very intense and spawn killing isn't a huge problem 
 as of yet. You almost never feel crowded even with the 40 players and downloadable content is supposed 
 to be on its way. Final Thoughts
  Overall Resistance is a must play game whether you have a ps3 or not. The game is actually pretty 
 fun in cooperative play and offers enough difficult situations to have you and your friend thinking 
 of new ways to attack a scenario that was seemingly impossible just moments before. The guns are 
 all useful and original along with levels and enemies that further help put those guns to good 
 use. The vehicle portions of the Campaign are simple at first, but later become just as difficult 
 as a fire fight, but in some cases even more intense then what you thought the game could achieve. 
 Resistance is great for newcomers to the FPS genre and for those of you that are FPS veterans I 
 say you have a lot of fun just waiting to be played. Don't be fooled by the beginning, because 
 the game does pick up and it does so in the best way possible. Resistance takes many little influences 
 from other great First Person shooters you've played in the past, but adds a whole lot more with 
 some of the most intense battles you might have ever seen. In fact, I've yet to see another game 
 that has as much going on at once in a game without lag as Resistance does almost flawlessly in 
 some of its major battles. I highly recommend this game and believe it should be enjoyed by all 
 gamers. If you're not an FPS fan then play it with a friend who is. You will have fun just being 
 on the ride, and if you are a hardcore FPS fan then give this game a shot. Go from start to finish 
 because not a single part of this game should be missed by the audience Insomniac tried so hard 
 to impress. Graphics:
  Amazing graphics, which are put to the limit during some of the largest and intense battles I've 
 ever experienced in an FPS.
  9/10
  
  Game Play:
  Guns that are amazingly original and fun to use, plus a game that puts you in situations that actually 
 needs them.
  9/10
  
  Environment:
  Jaw dropping stages and sounds (or lack of) , create a sense of immersion strong enough to make 
 you jump from fright and uncontrollable excitement.
  10/10
  
  Replay ability:
  With a huge amount of unlockable guns, concept art books, and more. Who needs a collectors edition. 
 And with an online game like Resistance you could be busy for months.
  10/10
  
  Overall: Play this game as soon as possible.
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LILoj0508
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 24, 2006 7:37 pm PT
Review:  I love gears of war, dont get me wrong i thought it was the best game to be made, but when i got 
 my ps3 three days ago and i got this game i was like holy sh**. This games multiplayer is the best 
 ive seen with achievments, matchmaking, stats, and clan support. If u get a ps3 u should def get 
 this game. I hated fps but after playing this i love them. After playing this game if u own a 360 
 i guarantee u , you will have more fun with this then gears of war. Im not a fanboy just staiting 
 my opinion ( aka the real facts) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terryjameboy
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 24, 2006 12:50 pm PT
Review:  OMG !!!! when i got this game wait first off i didnt have high hopes for this game when i first 
 got it anyway but my friends kept telling me how good it was.... soo i bought it.... and played like 
 4 mins of it after all its loading... and shut the ps3 off..... you guys are jokeing right ?? i mean 
 its like a call of duty 2 but with monsters.... it felt like i was playing call of duty all over 
 again.... the way you can aim the gun and ect..... i mean what is soo fun about this game.... like 
 call of duty its fun the first few days but then it gets boring cause your kinda doing the same 
 thing over again just like this game....... i mean the graphics are alright compared to the new 
 games are out for the 360 right now...... i honestly had more fun playing gundam then this game..... who 
 ever made this game just copied call of duty and added monsters and named it resistance call of 
 man 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kwantetroop
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:51 am PT
Review:  Gameplay-10 Perfect. Just how any FPS chould be controlled. Classic and great. The weapons add 
 charm too. The weapons are of such great variety, like guns that shoot through walls! Who thinks 
 of that?
  
  Graphics-9 Great graphics compared to a lot of the games out there. It's a launch game for the 
 PS3 also, so you can't expect MUCH. Incredible, nonetheless.
  
  Sound-10 How every shooter should sound like. I can hear every detail. Every bullet shot (in the 
 background too) , every explosion, and every shout. And it is perfectly executed. Great! Value-9 
 A very long story mode for a FPS. And a very valuable multiplayer to boot. 40 player battles really 
 get awesome. Could keep you playing more than you're on Myspace! Lol, I know impossible...
  
  Tilt-10 Very, very, very, very fun! You just can't put the controller down. It's so chaotic 
 and impressively executed that you have the time of your life. And multiplayer is no exception. 
 It can hold up to 40 players in one incredible battle! I love it!
  
  Overall-9.7 Superb Resistance: Fall of Man has been all it has been hyped up to be. Bottom line: 
 If you like FPS games then play this. No excuses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: McH0TTY
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is a repetitive, boring, trying hard to be halo game. Run and shoot, run 
 and shoot! Why does it feel such as Ive done this before in other fps games? Other than the repetitiveness 
 of the game there are a great deal of good looking weapons here, such as in ratchet and clank who 
 come from the same creators of resistance, but such as ratchet and clank the does get boring, tedious, 
 and futile towards the end. Theres not much to do in resistance other than run and shoot, but the 
 online is very impressive and i find myself playing online rather than the acutual game. In conclusion 
 resistance fall of man should be rented first before ever buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_proof_hurts
Rating: 8.4
Date: Dec 25, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  This is the best first-person-shooter for a SONY platform. The gameplay is fun and solid. Controls 
 are responsive and, as stated by another reviewer, hit detection is accurate. It's a must own launch 
 title for the PS3.
  
  The graphics are in a bit flat . They don't have that multi-dimension feel that I expected from 
 a next-gen title on such a powerful system. There's no depth to inanimate objects such as grass, 
 boxes, chairs and so forth. Also, you can just run right through dead characters. You don't have 
 the ability to push the bodies around. Also, when walking through grass you literally walk through 
 it. It doesn't move you just pass through it. The environments also aren't very interactive. There's 
 not much more you can do besides run, hide and shoot.
  
  The smoothness of the gameplay is impressive. Even when there are loads of characters on screen 
 everything still runs smoothly. This is a testament to the PS3's power. That being said, it also 
 means that this game doesn't really stress the hardware. Resistance delivers and goods and does 
 everything well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammyk35
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 23, 2006 3:51 pm PT
Review:  R: FoM is a great FPS, nothing revolutionary but is a great launch title for the PS3.
  
  Gameplay- Great, AI is pretty good, enemys will hide behind cover when taking shots. Difficulty 
 is just right, some points of the game are fairly easy other parts are going to take a trip or 
 two before completion. Storyline is good, and has a pretty deep single player campaign.
  
  Graphics- Very Good, charachter models are done very well. Environments well detailed.
  
  Sound- 
 Great, especially using Dolby Surround Sound. Value- Great, considering the online side of it. 
 If you own a PS3, before to pick up this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeSupreme
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 23, 2006 9:51 am PT
Review:  (MAJOR SPOILERS) RESISTANCE Fall of man is one of the most entertaining FPS i have ever played. 
 Sony isn't known for good FPS execpt killzone, but this is just plain fun.
  Pros: Good graphics, nice sound, story, imaginative weapons, and a nice multiplayer for a launch 
 title.
  Cons: Gamplay was different, If they spent more time they could have had more cutscenes to replace 
 the black and white art. Resistance starts you off as Hale the only living yank in britian that 
 has become infected with the chimera virus. The chimera are not so much as aliens as they are mutated 
 humans. Your duty is to stop the chimera from spreading and defeat them all together. The story 
 is told from a different stand point were a british soldier tells you about Hale while you play 
 as him.
  While playing you recive intresting weapons as to be expected from Insomniac. If you have a PS3 
 and you dont have this you need to get it. It is by far the best PS3 game out right now. MULTIPLAYER- 
 Multiplayer is rely fun and is very simple to use. you get a few options if you want random fights 
 with others but it also offer's you the abillity to creat your ownbattle either with random peo [le 
 or with your friends. the maps are nicely detailed with nice weapon placement. you can have team 
 death match, capture the flag, or have a good old fashion everyone for themselves (my favorite) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wargasm666
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 22, 2006 10:00 am PT
Review:  What can I say about Resistance: Fall of Man. If you are looking for a flat out, balls to the wall, 
 fun shooter then this is the game for you. Like it has been said before, Resistance doesn't reinvent 
 the wheel but everything that it does do is done top-notch and very smooth.
  
  I'll start with the game play (as a whole) .
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man provides you with frantic, 
 exciting and oftentimes INSANE amounts of action. It also provides the quiet, creepy corridor crawls 
 to break up the intense all out war sequences. There will be times where you will look on your 
 screen and wonder to yourself how the **** am I going to kill all these things? but given the weapon 
 choices, you have MORE then adequate firepower to get the job done. This is just a really fun game, 
 plain and simple. The graphics and sound of Resistance: Fall of Man while not being the best out 
 there are nothing less then sensational. It really reminded me of a grittier version of City 17 
 from Half Life 2. I will say the last levels of the game (London levels) were truly amazing. I 
 would have liked to see that kind of level design all the way through. The all out war levels just 
 blew me away. The levels when you are alone just seemed a bit lacking but fun no less. Seeing screenshots 
 of the game does not do it justice. Seeing it in motion is a must! The pure amount of stuff on 
 screen and not a hint of slowdown makes this game a real visual treat. The audio (while great) 
 could have been a bit better. It just doesnt have that next-gen sound that I have become accustomed 
 too from games like Rainbow Six: Vegas, Call of Duty 3 and Gears of War. It is still awesome but 
 could have been given a bit harder kick in the nuts.
  
  I havent dove into the multiplayer yet but I will as soon as I get bored of playing the single 
 player game.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a must own title for the launch of the PS3 that serves up everything 
 you want in a shooter. Revolutionary, no... but who cares when the action is as fun as it is.. that 
 IS why we play games right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murmcl
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 21, 2006 9:39 pm PT
Review:  It's true that the graphics are great, but not up to the advertising hype for the premiere FPS 
 for the PS3. Although they are obviously different games Gears of War on the XBox360 certainly 
 looks better. (Sorry Sony... Thats one to you Bill)
  
  The game-play is very straight forward, by that I mean there is no sensation that you are in an 
 open world, you proceed with almost tunnel vision down hallways roads etc. that don't allow for 
 any deviation at all (no room for any exploration of the world whatsoever) doors don't open and 
 views out of windows graphically look great but nothing is ever happening. It appears that the 
 only real action in this big war is always right where you happen to be.
  
  One annoyance is the fact you cannot interact with any of the objects at all, sure if you bump 
 into a table, chair or even the power orbs they will move around but it would be nice to be able 
 to pick them up and throw them or stack them.
  
  The controls are slightly awkward at first but I can see no better layout given the PS3 controller. 
 Unfortunately the default jump button X, the most comfortable button to access on the controller 
 is almost useless, you only need to jump a half dozen times during the entire game.
  
  Enemy AI is great for a PS2 game, but I was hoping for more on a next gen console like the PS3.
 
  
  After all is said and done it's still a great game, probably the best PS3 game currently available.
 
  
  I hope my review does not come off all bad, it's just that I was expecting more, after the long 
 wait for the console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BassCrossZero
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 21, 2006 5:21 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a great first person shooter. It quickly beats halo in both quality, 
 design, and graphics. Although i rarely play fps's i was quickly taken aback by this game. I only 
 right reviews for games that are worth it and this one made the list. Now on with the review!!!
 
  
  You start off as a US officer named Nathan Hale. At the beginning of the game the US force was 
 supposed to be meating/teaming up with the british. Before the British could get to the meating 
 place, they were attacked. The americans were attacked shortly after by the same force, a so called 
 alien race called the Chimera . The Chimera are human beings infected with some sort of virus let 
 out by insects. The US force is wiped out at the beggining of the game when spires (missiles that 
 hold the insects) land. Infected people slip into a coma. Hale was the only one person to ever 
 awaken after being infected. During the rest of this game you take control of Hale. I will not 
 reveal the rest so as not to give out any spoilers.
  
  The gameplay is very smooth and you do not have to worry about the camera messing up like it does 
 in many FPS's. The controls of the game are very easy to learn and can be found out within 5 minites 
 of the starting point. The story actually ends unlike some other FPS's.
  
  The graphics of the game are clear and precise. you know exactly where you are and it is easier 
 to find out where to go. You can interact with you invironment, such as break glass or knock things 
 of tables. The games graphics are as realistic as it gets, and combined with the power of the PS3 
 it comes off nicely. The guns look very real and the people and Chimera die very realistically.
 
  
  The games sound is easily recognisable and it goes very well with the game. The radio you hear 
 though most of the game is audible enough to hear what they are saying while still noticing the 
 static.
  
  Over all i would rate this game in between a 9.6 and a perfect 10.0.
  I hope you reccommend my review! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: destructiontalk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 21, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Well This is the only game that I have for my PS3 as I already have COD3, and madden 07 for my xbox 
 360 so There really is'nt anything elese worth playing on the PS3 right now. The graphics are'nt 
 as good as Gears of war but I'am using a Standard Televison so I really can't say to much about 
 that. The story is is pretty basic a Virus is let loose that starts to kill everyone in it's path 
 the start of virus is unknown. Aleins start to invade and american, British etc soilders tyr to 
 fight off the aleins. When each soilder is killed then thats just another alein becuase the aleins 
 take the dead soilders to there facitily and make them into aleins themsevles. The game does'nt 
 really take advandage of the motion controller its onyl really used when a enemy jumps on you and 
 you have to shake the controller to get them off. The guns are powerful and theres pretty good 
 seclection. The A. I is pretty good also and when soilders or aleins die there bodies stay where 
 they die they do'nt disapear which is kinda neat. Also there really isnt alot of options to duck 
 and hide like there is GOW however the game is very fun to play and I hav'nt played my Xbox 360 
 since I got the PS3 on Tuesday. I do recomend that you start the game on medium becuase the easy 
 mode is well way to easy. Also the multiplayer is pretty decent overall its good Launch title for 
 the PS3 and every good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirisKurt
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2006 2:01 pm PT
Review:  There are multiple enemy types, vehicles, and weapons of a different nature. I've had bigger battles 
 in here than in Gears. Pretty sure Gears doesn't have as a variety of weapons either. But it has 
 no blind fire! Are you seriously that stupid. Like you could see over the car you're hiding behind. 
 This is realistic. It's a shooter. It doesn't need a story. It needs weapons, enemies, and fun 
 environments. I'm also pretty sure that it is longer than gears too. There are 3 of 8 (9 if you 
 include the upgrade) weapons that are unoriginal. Everything else has it's special kick to it. 
 Then there is 1 alien grenade, the ordinary frag, and the fuel grenade. Edit: Okay, okay. I lied. 
 Beat the game and it unlocks more weapons. So it defiantely has more weapons than Gears. Not trying 
 to bash Gears. It's a good game, but I it's Resistance over Gears. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickener
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 21, 2006 8:09 am PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man is just a good game. From the revolutionary guns to the fantastic visuals. 
 You play as an american who is actually affected by the disease in which you become a Chimera, 
 except hes changing from the inside out. He gains some of the powers of the chimera so that will 
 help you along the way. The guns, Prey meets Call of Duty, simple enough. The enviorments are so 
 enteractable. You shoot a wall depending on which material the wall is and what gun your using 
 affects what the wall will look like after you shot it. Also the windows break and give it more 
 of a endless enviorment, like you can bust open a window and see what is inside the place. The 
 use of the six-axis is limited as you rarely use it to ward off enemies that are on you trying 
 to rip you apart. The car scenes look like Halo and have that feel to it too. Some of the guns 
 you wont get ammo for hours sometimes. Online play is also a great time as well. Theres the classic 
 capture the flag and other team matched games but there is also Free-for-all mode which its you, 
 your guns, and 25 other blood thirsty players trying to fight it out for points. You kill and get 
 points the more you kill the more points you get, first to 250 wins. I highly reccomend this game 
 and if you have a playstation 3 this is a must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cwboyer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:57 pm PT
Review:  If you've been following games at all for the last few years, then you already know the pedigree 
 that Resistance: Fall of Man comes from. Insomniac has a well-appreciated body of work going back 
 to the beginnings of the PlayStation 2 with the ambitious Ratchet &amp; Clank series. With this 
 new shooter, Insomniac leads the charge onto Sony's next-generation platform, guns blazing.
  
  Players take command of Nathan Hale, a United States marine sent to assist British forces in 
 an alternate version of history where hideous alien creatures known as the Chimera have engulfed 
 Europe and decimated most of the population.
  
  From the outset, Resistance is very much done by-the-numbers. It's not hard to see a lot of very 
 cliched design choices that are prevalent in other First Person Shooter games, and they show up 
 quite clearly in this game as well. At the end of the day, Resistance follows the FPS formula pretty 
 well, without deviating too much from the norm.
  
  That's not to say it is not an enjoyable game. Firefights are quick and fast paced, and enemies 
 aren't that durable, which means that players will be mowing down armies of four-eyed baddies on 
 a regular basis, and that's plenty entertaining. A trademark of Insomniac's also shows up in Resistance, 
 in the amount of creative weaponry that is available to players. From homing rifles to the nail 
 grenade, which can ruin just about anyone's day, Resistance's armament is a great way to have a 
 good time.
  
  The graphics are very clearly next gen, though character models look a little plastic and maybe 
 a little too artificial still, but as developers are still getting used to the new system, it's 
 to be expected - and even still, they don't look bad. The art direction is excellent though, the 
 game very much has a feel like some kind of documentary from the History Channel, complete with 
 grainy black and white footage and photographs that look like they were produced during the era 
 in which the game takes place. In the game also, the Chimera are genuinely creepy looking. A fair 
 number of clearly War of the Worlds-inspired backdrops and creatures abound in the game, but that's 
 hardly a bad thing.
  
  Sound is kind of a mixed bag in this game. The sound effects are top notch, and are used extremely 
 well. From the effect of directional audio to track a foe, to the murky, watery distortion resulting 
 from the explosion of a nearby grenade, effects really sell the environment of the game. Music 
 on the other hand, is sparse and forgettable.
  
  Of course, the new addition to gaming is motion sensing, and Resistance's use of the SIXAXIS controller 
 is interesting enough that it's pleasant to use. One particular type of enemy will grab onto the 
 player, and if this happens, players have to shake the controller around to throw the creature 
 off, before giving it a good plugging. It's using sparingly enough that it doesn't get old, though 
 also just rare enough that it's easy to forget about the shaking and instead instinctively mash 
 buttons. It's something to get used to.
  
  Folks have had complains about multiplayer, but Insomniac has released plans to change it up with 
 a patch, so it's hard to say whether or not a good review of the online mode will change in time, 
 but as things stand of this writing, it's pretty standard stuff. Most of the maps are dull, and 
 spawn points are somewhat ill placed: it's very easy to spawn right behind - or right in front 
 of an opponent, making somebody into an easy kill.
  
  Overall, the game is entertaining, and as a first offering on the PS3, it's a pretty good effort. 
 It's a solid shooter that doesn't do too much, but what it does, it does well. As one of the only 
 worthwhile launch titles for the system, it should absolutely enjoy some brisk sales, but as new 
 games are released, expect this one to fall by the wayside. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkeyb
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:34 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Launch title ever (next to Halo and Zelda) . Playing Resistance was like a breath 
 of fresh air, after holding your breath for a PS3 launch title that s worth buying. During gameplay 
 you cant help but notice all the extra stuff happening onscreen as you play. Some of witch has 
 nothing to do with you. The game takes you through some hallways that will have you ducking in 
 and out for a good head shot. on the other end of the spectrum you have some really elaborate battle 
 taking place out in the open which is really fun. Co-op mode is a good feature where you and your 
 buddy can get it on side by side in the story mode. reviving a friend is a good and helpfully feature.
 
  
  The best feature in Resistance is the multilayer online mode. This is one heck of an online experience 
 with 40 players in at once. it can get really hectic. You have team matches and individual ones 
 too, with games like CTF, Death match, and some matches that take you back to theRatchet and Clank 
 series. All is not peachy with this game. The cut scenes are limited to narrating and sometimes 
 it make you wish they had some good CG to accompany it. I give Resistance: Fall of Man a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desert_spy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 20, 2006 12:32 pm PT
Review:  so... it has finally arrived.... the ps3
  with all the hype, I was truly hoping for a much better lineup
  with all these games, like untold 
 legends; dark kingdom, i thought that ps3 was doomed to failure
  then I started to play resistance: fall of man.... and I was blown away from
  the fusion of hardcore 
 gameplay to the wide variety of weapons and enemies to the brilliant use of the technology
  this game was really underestimated though, for it was being compared to Gears of War (xbox 360) , 
 which is thought by some to be a better game
  but when it came out, i think that it just SHOCKED people
  the learning curve is probably half 
 an hour for most, it took me about 15 minutes
  it does get a bit hard at the end, but you learn how to adapt and create great strategies so overall, 
 i think this is a fantastic game, and proves what the ps3 can really do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamber303
Rating: 8.7
Date: Dec 20, 2006 8:42 am PT
Review:  WOW, amazing fps
  Insomniac did a very good job on this game.
  The graphics are killer
  the sound is amazing
  the controls are perfect
  the AI is good enough.
  The story line also 
 gets the gamer involved and interested.
  This quality gaming has only scrached the surface of the capabilities of the ps3. Imagine that.
 
  There is nothing more to say for this game exept that it has been made very well and if there 
 were to be a sequel, it would kick ass as well.
  for anyone that is thinking of getting this game, it would be a very good title for your library. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaleJrFanFreak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 10:29 pm PT
Review:  I'm not the biggest fan of first person shooters because I feel that so many of them are the same, 
 but something about Resistance makes it stand out from the crowd. I must say that I am not a real 
 big Halo fan, i've played through 1 and 2 but there's just something about those games that don't 
 impress me too much. Red Faction is actually my favorite first person shooter franchise. Being 
 able to destroy most of the things around you, blood, gore, and some cool weapons (Red Faction 
 had heat seaking rockets) . So, Resistance has alot to prove, especially as the flagship PS3 title. 
 First off, I must say that this game does need some improvment. The graphics are very impressive, 
 but I want the environments to be very eery and scary like in Doom 3. Some areas are creepy, but 
 things need to be pitch black. It is neat, however, to hear footsteps above you, as well as things 
 moving when you're not. Also, the AI is pretty smart. Sometimes they have cover, other times they 
 will rush you. I don't have a 360 or high end PC, but i've played Counter Strike and the AI seems 
 to be like real people at many points in the game, where they either play it safe or just all out 
 try to get ya. Plus, they seem to be very good at choosing when to nade me.
  
  The graphics, as I said, are quite impressive. You shoot glass, it breaks differently every time. 
 The enemies and people have incredible detail throughout, and the environments have a lot of little 
 things that can easily go unnoticed. Sometimes I really wish I could see those destructable environments 
 from Red Faction, but I never saw framerate drops and that was with many things happening at once.
 
  
  I will say that since this game doesn't go all out to be completely different, I was slightly disappointed. 
 Luckily, after I beat the game I decided to play online and I must say that playing with 30+ other 
 people is FREAKING AWESOME. It's not only crazy fun, but I've noticed zero lag on my wireless connection, 
 and there's just a ton of action all around. I think that the online option really saves this game 
 from getting a bad score, so if you aren't planning on playing online you may want to rent it first. 
 Ultimately, this game was a lot of fun, and the weapons are so different from one another you have 
 tons of different options on how to stay alive. For me, I am completely satisfied with the game, 
 and I can't wait to play the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer-hawk
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 19, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The guys who developed this game specifically said it is b no means a ww2 shooter. And that's true, 
 it's so much better. Insomniac Games has combined its passion for creating exotic weapons and vehicles 
 with a proprietary physics system to create a unique human and alien arsenal.
  
  In Resistance: Fall of Man, the U. S. and Britain band together in a last-ditch effort to save 
 Europe and Asia from a horrific scourge. In mere decades, the Chimera  a species of unknown origin 
 propagating a virus that converts other life forms into more Chimera  has overrun Russia and all 
 of Europe. Humanitys hope for survival is slim, and the tide of the battle rests on the shoulders 
 of U. S. Army Ranger, Sgt. Nathan Hale. Resistance puts you right into York, England where the Chimera 
 have total control over, you and a group of rangers must battle your way through and secure a beachhead.
 
  
  If you want to get the full, truly intense story, buy the console and the game. if you can find 
 a store that has them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biohunter007
Rating: 5.2
Date: Dec 19, 2006 9:47 am PT
Review:  The one positive I can say about this game is the way the story is presented. It actually made 
 me want to continue playing to find out what happens, despite it shortcomings. The graphics are 
 honestly so-so considering the power of the PS3. (this is also using HDMI) Truth be told, it looks 
 like a beefed up PS2 game. The controls feel like COD, but sloppy. The jump button is almost pointless 
 and the PS3 controller just isnt geared towards FPS games. Perhaps with a Keyboard and mouse, (even 
 a 360 controller) this game would feel better to me. Level design is decent, but nothing worth 
 writing about :-) The main problem though is not all with the game itself. The real problem is 
 with games like Call of Duty, Battlefield 2, and Gears of War this game just doesent measure up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T-Zone
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 5:45 am PT
Review:  It's Resistance, the number one Ps3 game played, nuff said... There's not much to say...
  
  The weapons are of a great arsenal... Insomiac has taken some style from Ratchet &amp; Clank n place 
 it into this soon to be Legendary Franchise...
  
  The storyline is alright, yet confusin at some times... At least its better then that other game 
 which I shall not name...
  
  Gameplay is Intense... It'll make you think like you are playing a Horro Game for awhile... So, there 
 is no Duck n Cover here. Because u better Run n Gun, if u expect to complete this game...
  
  As for sound, it'll vary dependin on what kind of Sound Hook-Up that you are using... So, Im 
 usin 5.1 Surround Sound, so that was a good experience to me...
  
  Do I reccommend this game for others? Yes, I do... Make this the First game to add to ur Ps3 library... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suttonjn27
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 19, 2006 12:46 am PT
Review:  Resistance is the sort of game that when you're playing it, you can pinpoint all these different 
 sources where the developers got their ideas. You will regularly be thinking of Half-Life 2, Call 
 of Duty, Halo, Starship Troopers and many more games and movies while playing through the game. 
 Believe me when I say that's definitely not a bad thing!
  
  I'm certainly not saying that Resistance does nothing to enhance the FPS genre either, as it does 
 in a few cases. Weapons that fire through walls, hide-n-fire, and some interesting grenade types 
 add flavor and a bit of originality to the game. One thing I'm disappointed that it didn't have, 
 however, is better group tactics. When you get a few green shirts hanging out with you, they tend 
 to die pretty quickly and don't really offer much to the fight. If you're fighting a large enemy, 
 it's all you even if there are 10 or 15 green shirts there.
  
  So the gameplay is fun, how about that other stuff that the PS3 is supposed to be known for? The 
 graphics are outstanding, but not quite enough to give it that next-gen feel. This system is supposed 
 to be so ultra-powerful, yet close-up views of grass or weeds are still pixelated blocks. And yes 
 I'm hooked up via HDMI to a 1080p HDTV. Most things look great, especially faces and the glass-breaking 
 technology, but it's always the small things they tend to skimp on.
  
  All in all, this is a great game that is well worth your time to play, and for me it's the only 
 game I actually wanted to play on the PS3. By finishing it once, I unlocked some new weapons and 
 I'm eager to go through it in co-op now. I'd also like to say that while the PS3 has no achievements, 
 this game does have some Skill Points that seem to be based on the same idea. My one play through 
 did not earn even a quarter of the points, but I'm sad to report that they are nowhere near as 
 fun as the Xbox achievements. Having the points online for my friends to compare, and envy, is 
 a pretty big reason they are so popular.
  
  So anyway, if you have a PS3... go get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: psychofoo007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 20, 2006 3:50 pm PT
Review:  First off I want to state that i have played though this game so I do know what i'm talking about. Okay, 
 now that that's out of the way I want to say this an a frickin awesome game. Great story, compelling 
 story, beautiful visuals, and insane sound.
  
  Graphics:
  Easily one of the best parts of this game is it's graphics. So awesome. Now matter what you hook 
 your PS3 up to it will look great, but this game stands out. The constantly changing battlefields 
 and how they look are hard to describe unless you actually see it.
  
  Gameplay:
  The game is a FPS and a good FPS at that. It contains a multitude of weapons, and a bunch of ways 
 to kill your enemies. You can shoot while hiding in cover, or throw a spiky grenade (called hedgehog) 
 and pin them down. You can simply run n gun while in the game you will have to find cover and fight 
 from cover, which I think is an excellent plus. Plus there a many types of enemies to help keep 
 the gameplay from being too repetitive. This is truly a very competent FPS.
  
  Sound:
  A masterpiece. Sound is insane. Each gun has a distinct sound, and as run through quiet area you 
 can hear your breathing and footsteps. But the most shocking is different materials of ground and 
 walls make different sound as you walk into them or shoot them.
  
  story:
  An excellent story ... you play as Lt. Nathan Hale trying to battle his way through a horde of Chimera 
 in order to save the planet. There are quite a few twists in the story so I won't ruin it but you 
 will be hooked.
  
  Conclusion:
  Overall if you manage to get a PS3 then you need to get this game. Period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gogeta8
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 18, 2006 5:18 pm PT
Review:  I really liked the game the moment it started. The action is incredible and the graphics are amazing. 
 I also liked how they put in the cooperative story mode, so me and my friend played non-stop. ITS 
 SO ADDICTIVE! But what did annoy me is the explosion radius of the grenades, I want to kill this 
 massive group of Chimeara but the grenade only kills like two or three cause it cant reach the 
 rest :' (. But overall Resistance was a great game, one of my favorites and I recommend you buy 
 it. Hopefully they come out with a sequel :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jesseman1919
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 18, 2006 6:05 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man was an excellent game.
  
  First off, the difficulty...
  This game is quite a challenge, that's what makes it a hell of a time! It's a fun first person 
 shooting game, better than halo, and the motion sensor is fun to use. It's hard because you keep 
 dying, but that isn't a problem because you won't mind starting from the last checkpoint.
  
  Second, the gameplay...
  You are an American soldier, Nathan Hale, who goes to fight the 
 chimera (ky-meh-ra) . He gets infected by them, but he is the only one that survived the chimera 
 infection. There is a huge variety of chimera and weapons. Including, a monster that can slap you 
 across the face and is over 20 ft. tall..... a gun that can shoot through walls, and a zombie like 
 thing that can get stuck to your face and you will have to swing the control up and down to bat 
 him off. Sniping is also fun, you can go into slow-motion with it then snipe the head off a hybrid 
 (a hybrid is a type of chimera) .
  
  Third, graphics...
  Oh, my, god... These graphics are incredible. They detailed the smallest things. If you find blood 
 on a window-sil in most games, it will be one flat piece hanging off. In Resistance, It actually 
 drips from the window. Even the dead bodies are detailed. The shooting wasn't as detailed. The 
 bullets from the enemies were a little easy to dodge. Just kinda slow. Say, if you snipe someone 
 in the leg, they will actually hold on to their leg and fall on the ground. Some chimera have packs 
 with tubes, if they did not have these, they would over-heat and die. I once sniped one of the 
 tubes, and then he grabbed the tube, trying to block the air coming out, and he fell to the ground 
 rolling around. Then i punched him and he died.
  
  Last on the list, sounds...
  No music, but i think it would be distracting with. They pay attention to the sounds of the guns 
 and chimera. The sounds of the guns are very different. The Auger, (a gun allowing you to shoot 
 through walls) makes a low sound. A Leaper, (small type of chimera, scorpion-like) make a hi-pitched 
 whiny sound like, huuwraaaa!!! .......... I didn't really know how else to explain....
  If they had music, you wouldn't even notice it because of all the things going on.
  
  Bottom 
 line: Resistance is an intense first person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamePro305
Rating: 9
Date: May 19, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  I Believe that this is the best PlayStation 3 title out yet. Resistance: Fall of man being a launch 
 title trully lived up to being a very fun and engaging experience. I really don't seem to understand 
 why GameSpot gave it only an 8.6 when this game actually deserved no more than a 9.0. In any case 
 we'll be happy to know that Resistance: Fall of man is now a franchise title for the PS3 and that 
 there will most likely be a sequel to this outstanding game I recommend it to anybody that likes 
 sci-fi/first-person shooters and to anybody that has a PS3 this is a must have as a launch title. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheCarl
Rating: 7.7
Date: Dec 18, 2006 9:37 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is one of a handful or titles released alongside the PS3 here in the US. 
 That being said, its the only one worth purchasing. With graphics on par with any other FPS out 
 there, slick frame rate (yet to see a skip/hiccup) , interesting enemies and guns that stretch the 
 imagination, Resistance makes for a solid experience.
  
  The story is very basic, save the world etc. What you will really appreciate is the very well planned 
 out levels and believable locations. You will hardly get bored while running through the levels.
 
  
  Each level has a set of accomplishments and the game has an overall general accomplishment list 
 that gives you points to be used toward rewards. This keep you going back through levels even after 
 you've cleared them. The accomplishments are interesting enough and are sometimes just plain fun 
 (run over 10 hybrids? Sign me up!) .
  
  The game has an offline coop mode for the campaign that I have yet to test but I do seem some crazy 
 firefights in the near future. I also have not experienced the multiplayer 40 person matches, mainly 
 because I don't care but I have heard good things about them both. These can only add to the goodness 
 of this game.
  
  If you own a PS3 or are having trouble finding a game worthy of your cash, try Resistance: Fall 
 of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowBass989
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Yeah you read that right. This game is a truly amazing. The graphics are beautiful. The game play 
 moves with you. The weapons are innovative. It sounds wonderful. And the most important thing, 
 the multiplayer is out of this world. Up to 40 people at once, trust me, things will get crazy. 
 As you know (or should know) Insomniac are the creators of the Ratchet and Clank series. Those 
 are all great and as well they are very innovative in weapon design and such. You get 8 weapons 
 the first time through, then when you beat the game, you are rewarded with the message that you 
 can receive new weapons your next time through. The graphics on this game are beautiful, very sharp 
 and crisp. In 480i (the lowest resolution) it looks better than a 360 title. You can actually see 
 the backgrounds and landscapes that you wouldn't normally be able to recognize on the PS2, which 
 was a great system. The sound is great, you can hear the enemy in the background communicating 
 with one another and the music really helps put you in the mood. The online multiplayer is very 
 addicting. As stated, you can engage into up to 40 people Death matches or Team Battle. When youre 
 in a free for all death matches with 40 people, it's going to get hectic. Probably the best feature 
 about this game is the learning curve. It takes literally no time to learn the controls and when 
 you do, your going to have a lot of fun. Whether you are shooting through a wall or launching a 
 grenade at someone or something, you really feel good about it.
  
  This is a must own title for the PS3. This is the best launch game for SONY ever. It's a bit of 
 shame though for people who don't own the system to miss out on this. I urge everyone to buy a 
 PS3 if you find it. This game is a system seller. If you own a PS3 and don't have this game, something 
 is wrong with you. Go and get it now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HughHefner1987
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  When i just played this game, a few days back at my buddies house....... with his True HDTV....... and 
 playing this game in Co-op Hard Mode!!!
  
  This game is totally worth every penny!!
  
  .... and though i don't have a PS3 just yet.... as of now, I'm really wanting one!!
  
  The AI 
 improved a whole lot when playing in Hard Mode!! ...... and its way more competitive than any other 
 game, I've ever played!!
  
  Graphics wise and visuals..... you won't be disappointed..... and for those who say, the game is 
 CRAPPY...... don't believe a single word!! ....... it's so fresh and so clean..... You'll Love it!!
 
  
  Though i haven't heard what the story is like....... I hear from my other friends that it's actually 
 very compelling!!
  
  The Gameplay is by far the most Beautiful thing!!
  ..... the AI is smart enough to know that 'you are Hiding',
  .... that 'you are running away' from 
 them to get cover,
  ... so guess what..... with some of it's featured weapons.... they will know where you are and Kill 
 you!! ....... haha, right through your cover.
  
  They don't go down as easily as you may think...... so with every breathe you have...... unload all 
 your bullets like you mean it!!
  
  Though other peeps say what they say....... you know, they're lying!!
  
  Resistance Fall of 
 Man................ IS and Will Always Be Awesome!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakechamp
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is really good. i mean it has so much that you could love about the gam, but could of 
 had a lot more potional. the game stars ina rush when your in the middle of a war. already you 
 feel like your in a war of survival. the graphics are phenomenal and the sound makes the game mroe 
 realistic. this game feels so good, and the cutscenes are really impressive. they give you a good 
 look at how much the ps3 can do now. the music in the game come at the right time. when you finish 
 beating up the aliens, you have a nice music to it aking you feel happy that you beat them. the 
 bad guys are hard and smart. the alies can duck and shoot when they know there in trouble and its 
 so cool to know your finally fighting something that doesnt just stand there. the online play i 
 havent played yet so i dont know how it is sorry. this game is the best lauch game out there and 
 if you have a ps3 with no game, then get this one you will neer regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andrewass121
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is very good game for me but for u its so cool i have this game its so sweet its the 
 best game for the ps3 for now cant wait for the new one to come out thats how cool that game is 
 and i hope u guys get it to cuz this game rocks out best FPS out for the ps3 for now ps3 is so 
 cool some of my frends dout have&acute; this game cuz thay ant as rich as i am but i think u guys 
 can get this game and the ps3 its cool and sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vindicatedfoul
Rating: 5.9
Date: Dec 16, 2006 1:13 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 7/10
  The game itself is nothing new, it has some interesting weapons and fun multiplayer with stat tracking. 
 Other than that, it's all been done before.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  No music really stands out, you can always hear the chimera yelling something at you.
  
  Graphics: 
 6/10
  The graphics are good, but when compared to whats on the other systems it's mediocre at best. The 
 environments are pretty bland. The character models are uninspired and the humanoids faces are 
 poorly made. Textures look flattened out. Game is only 720p.
  
  Value: 4/10
  The story is not complete with the game, you have to wait for the sequels, which is a huge letdown 
 after 10+ hours of gameplay to beat it. You know about as much at the end of this as you did when 
 you started, you're some random guy killing random things that we don't know what they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SpikeDelight
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 16, 2006 10:02 am PT
Review:  Ever since a few years ago when the system was announced, Sony's PlayStation 3 gaming system looked 
 to blow everything out of the water with the littlest of ease. The PS2's tech demo had a rubber 
 duck sitting in a bathtub? Well, let's show off the PS3's 8 Cell Processors by making the tub full 
 of rubber ducks this time! But as the launch date came closer and closer, the system was built 
 up higher and higher until its expectations became so ridiculously large that God herself (see 
 Dogma ) couldn't make a system half as good. And so, here we are. The new age has dawned and the 
 PlayStation 3 has been released upon the world, and though it didn't live up to its mythological 
 expectations, I couldn't be happier for waiting 45 hours in front of a Target to get one. And God 
 said let them have a killer app for launch, because most of these launch titles are either terrible, 
 ports of 360 games, or both. And lo, Resistance: Fall of Man came to be. The next generation starts 
 now.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man, or R: FoM for short, is a first-person shooter set in England in the 1950's 
 where Hitler never got a chance to strike because a terrifying alien race known as the Chimera 
 struck first. Nathan Hale, an American soldier fighting the Chimera in an overrun England is the 
 main character in this story, and the whole thing is narrated by a woman he meets for a brief time 
 in a Chimeran facility. The ideas behind the story and the mythos to the game are engaging, but 
 the characters introduced are hardly explained, not to mention that Hale says about 5 sentences 
 throughout the campaign. But that can be forgiven as the entire videogame is amazing, and just 
 the story of the Chimera invading is engaging enough. The campaign is truly an example that many 
 first-person shooters should live by, the length of it being about 14 hours, which is longer than 
 most FPSs (especially you, HALO 2!) . And though throughout most of the game you will be fighting 
 against the standard-issue Hybrid Chimera, there is enough variety in level design to keep you 
 occupied enough to hardly notice. Plus, there are quite a few different types of Chimera so it's 
 not to say that the Hybrids are all you will be shooting at. The levels are amazing. When you get 
 farther and farther through the game, the blown up city streets of England start changing more 
 and more into Chimeran bases and just to see all of the Chimeran technology progressing throughout 
 the game is a reason to keep playing in itself. Another thing that really shows off the power of 
 the PS3 is the fact that when you go through a level, especially an outside one, so many things 
 are happening at once that you won't know where to look. It's truly a sight to behold when you 
 run through a war-torn England setting while guys in bunkers are having their heads cut through 
 by bug-creatures, helicopters are being blown out of the sky, enemy dropships are hovering past, 
 all while about fifty Chimeran soldiers are running up towards you while another ten flank your 
 position with red glowing bullets whizzing by your head while you're still trying to figure out 
 which gun to use. The game also shines with its spectacular physics. The glass is the most realistic 
 ever seen in a video game when it's being shot at for one thing. When you shoot aliens who were 
 all standing in the same spot, they won't just fall down and glitch through each other, no. In 
 the next generation there is no glitching. They all stack on top of each other in a big pile. Even 
 when they're up against a small railing their arms or legs wont glitch through it, their limbs 
 will react completely realistically, hanging on it or doing whatever depending on how they hit 
 it. Throwing grenades it extremely fun to see as the bodies fly in every which way, and though 
 they are using ragdoll physics, the ragdoll physics look so much more real here, totally immersing 
 the player into the game.
  
  The graphics, while extremely attractive when everything's in motion (if maybe the slightest bit 
 cartoony) , when you run up real close to somethig and look at it, the textures really are pretty 
 low-res. For example, I was running around and this certain wall looked really crisp and clear, 
 like a real brick wall. And so I had to investigate, and when I looked at it close, it was actually 
 a blurry mess that wasn't very impressive on any front. So the moral of the story here is don't 
 look at the textures up close because they will disappoint. But on the flip side of that coin, 
 some of the wooden floors and things like that have some extremely realistic bump-mapping, making 
 it supremely satisfying to circle strafe them and just look at the light reflect off of them (yes, 
 dear readers, this is how I play my video games) . And the Chimera character models, especially 
 the Hybrids, which were scaled down but still have the properties of 1,000,000 pixel models (!) 
 look amazing when you just gaze at their dead bodies on the ground. Not to mention if you shoot 
 one of the tubes connecting from their little backback things which cool them down the tubes will 
 spray round and round until they run out of air, the cool part about it being that they cut in 
 the exact spot you shot them in. Just pay no attention to the ground under him which looks like 
 the background in a blurry photo of Sasquatch.
  
  But, the real draw here isn't the graphics but the weapons, considering this game is made by Insomniac, 
 creators of the Ratchet &amp; Clank series. And how they deliver! There are plenty of weapons to 
 choose from, each not being your standard issue shotgun, assault rifle, sniper rifle (though those 
 are in the game) but hey all have special properties when you press L1 (or whatever button you 
 set it to because of its fully customizable controller settings) . So, the sniper rifle has a focus 
 mode which slows down time and makes the blood which gushes from the spot you shot them in like 
 no game has really done before that much more satisfying. There are also the alien weapons, like 
 the bullseye, which can tag an enemy for a short time, making it so every shot you fire hits that 
 target until you run out of time or until he's dead, there's the Auger, which can shoot through 
 walls and make shields for a few seconds, there's the LAARK rcket launcher, which can stop its 
 rockets in mid air until you tell them where to go, and much more. And the good thing is that the 
 weapons aren't just your HALO style human tech and then alien tech that does the same exact thing 
 but just looks different, they are all unique. And, as if that's not enough, once you beat the 
 game's campaign mode once, you can play it a second time, but in the second playthrough, there 
 is a whole other set of weapons to get as the game progresses, maming it have twice the amount 
 of weapons you'll see in the single player campaign in your first playthrough.
  
  What the game really does, as many sources have said already, is combine all of the elements of 
 the best first-person shooters. But in my opinion, it just makes something completely different, 
 which has never quite been seen before in this fashion. And the multiplayer is amazing too. It 
 can support up to 40 players in a match and if you have less, it will scale down the levels to 
 support the size of the game. It has a bunch of different modes to play in (though not as customizable 
 as something like HALO 2 in ranked games, but what game is nowadays?) including such faves as capture 
 the flag, deathmatch, and team deathmatch. But there are a few Resistance-specific online modes 
 such as Conversion, where everyone starts out as a human with two lives, if they die once, they 
 respawn as a Chimera and if they die again, they are out. The last player standing is the winner. 
 It's actually quite fun to play, as are all of the modes in the game, thanks in part to the special 
 abilities of each race. The humans can sprint forever (which is a bigger advantage than one might 
 think) and have maps that tell you where all allies and enemies are, but can't shot accurately 
 while sprinting, and the chimera can go into a rage mode which makes them a little harder to kill, 
 lets them sprint, can shoot accurately while running, and lets them see players through walls if 
 they're a certain distance away, but if they stay in that rage mode too long, they will overheat 
 and start losing health. Though in concept it sounds like the Chimera have an advantage, it's a 
 very well-balanced trade-off in practice. The only thing about the online is that when you die 
 you will almost always glitch through something. Your arms will go through the wall you're next 
 to, and things like that, but who cares? It's the online mode, and it's not really supposed to 
 have as much realism, but besides that, the graphics are pretty much the same. The game has its 
 own achievements, which can unlock you new clothing and appearance modifications to your online 
 characer, though there are no achievements cross-games like in Xbox Live. And the only other thing 
 about online is that your friends list in the game does not add them to your friends list out of 
 the game.
  
  But despite its few minor flaws, Resistance is a game that doesn't really change the way you'll 
 play games forever, but it is surely something you haven't seen before, and if you were lucky enough 
 to get a PlayStation 3 on launch day, this is the one game to get with your shiny new hardware. 
 Resistance delivers on all fronts, and it delivers in spades. This might just be the best launch 
 title of all time on any system and it would have impressed a year into the launch of the system, 
 it being out now makes it just that much more impressive. If you have a PS3 you need this game, 
 it's as simple as that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 7.6
Date: Dec 15, 2006 6:49 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: There are alot of different guns and enimes. The game play is pretty smooth, Altho they 
 could have done more with the SixAxis tho. The online is fun and chaotic, It is the first ( that 
 I have heard of ) that supports more than 32 players (40 to be precise) and it gets pretty crazy 
 but rocket launchers ruin the games online tho. 8
  
  Graphics: I was hoping for better but it dousent look to much different from a 360 game. The thing 
 is the semi-destructible enviroments. 7
  
  Sound: You dont hear to much in game music but the sounds of the guns are great so is the voice 
 acting. 7
  
  Value: the online is fun but I was expecting SP to be a little longer and the online is pretty 
 fun for awile but I cant see myself playing for more than 3 months on this game.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simpsonzach
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 14, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is not getting the reviews it deserves. It has amazing graphics on a 720p TV, and great 
 graphics on even a regular tv. I have beaten the game once and am about 1/4 of the way through 
 again on the unlocked Superhuman difficulty. The coolest thing about it is if you beat it, on Hard 
 i believe (what i did it on) you get new weapons when you play it on Superhuman! The game is VERY 
 good. The online experience is sooo much fun too. me and 3 other guys played it ALL night last 
 weekend, we never slept it was so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omega_specter
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I just got a ps3 on the 8th and I got Resistance.... usually im not a big fan of FPS's but this 
 game is pretty awsome..... haven't played much of it due to school and work but I beat a couple 
 levels on it and I had so much fun, the multiplayer is lag free so thats good..... I got killed 
 so many times on online so some words of advice: dont go online until you feel you got a good grasp 
 on the game.... hopefully there will be a sequel.... so overall its the only must have ps3 game at 
 the moment so go buy it if u got a ps3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vegeta014
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 8:18 pm PT
Review:  I have some information that might please you so here it is.
  
  Story
  Resistance: Fall of Man follows an alternate history where the world did not experience World War 
 II, the Great Depression, or the rise of Communism in Russia. A relative era of peace ensues following 
 the Great War, ending with the revelation of a ruthless and destructive race dubbed the Chimera. 
 In 1951, the year in which the game takes place, England finds itself under invasion. Little is 
 known about the Chimera and their origins remain unclear. Both Asia and Europe appear to have already 
 fallen to the Chimera in short order by this time.
  
  The game follows the story of U. S. Army Ranger Sgt. Nathan Hale. Hale's US Ranger Unit lands in 
 Britain to aid in fending off the Chimera only to be infected with a Chimeran virus and have everyone 
 fall into a coma shortly thereafter. Hale appears to be spared as he is the only one that manages 
 to awaken and becomes aware of the Chimeran plot due to the infection inside of him. [1] As a result, 
 he becomes the key figure in a desperate operation that is launched to try and halt the invasion. 
 The next three days are chronicled in the game as the U. S. and British forces band together in 
 a last-ditch effort to save what is left.
  
  Gameplay
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a first-person shooter set in an alternate history. With it, many of 
 its gameplay features stem from this, most notable of which is the weapons. Some weapons are based 
 on real weapons, while some weapons are futuristically altered. Insomniac Games has combined its 
 passion for creating exotic weapons and vehicles, such as those found in the Ratchet and Clank 
 series, with its proprietary development engine and physics system to create unique human and Chimeran 
 weaponry.
  
  Each weapon provides a unique play style and strategy. An example of this is found with the Auger 
 (Chimeran) . The primary fire for this weapon is simple rapid fire, but the bullets burrow through 
 walls, opening up a whole new level of strategy. The secondary fire creates a barrier that is resistant 
 to bullets. Most weapons will provide unique experiences whether they are a simple shotgun or the 
 unique Auger.
  
  The game features melee attacks, and jumping height is said to be realistic . It also features 
 player-controlled vehicles. The motion sensing feature of the PS3 controller is used for a number 
 of things including shaking off enemies that grab onto you, shaking off tags and flames in multiplayer, 
 and quickly bringing up a map or leaderboard in a multiplayer match.
  
  The game is said to run locked at 30 frames per second, offline and online, no matter what happens 
 in-game. It is also said to have no lag even while playing the 40 player online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogerwaterz
Rating: 5.3
Date: Dec 13, 2006 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Before I say anything, let me say this: YES i have a PS3 and YES i have played Resistance thru 
 and thru. The game funtions well enough, but leaves the player with a sense that the game was kind 
 of half baked. The story is a straight rip off of every B-class Sci Fi movie ever made. Alien Virus 
 takes over people, transmited mutation from little crawing thingys, leapers are a copy of Halo's 
 Flood, Collecter Chimera are a copy of War of the Worlds, guns that shoot thru walls, you name 
 it, theres a B grade Sci Fi movie that has it in it. The game is so unoriginal in everything exept 
 the fact that it has Porcupines, small grenades that shoot needles (even that is like Halo's needler) . 
 The graphics in this game only are modest, since the game only does 720p resolution, hardly the 
 1080p that sony has been braging about. The only thing that really impressed me about it was the 
 glass physics. They are good, I have to give it that. Also, it IS the best looking game on the 
 PS3, but thats not saying much. Im fourtunate enough to have a good EB games near my house where 
 i have procure games to compare with Resistance, and graphically, nothing even comes close. Unfourtunatly, 
 Resistance still falls flat. Sorry Insomniac, Id rather have a 360 (which I do) and Gears of War 
 (which I do) .
  
  6.9/10 disapointing, very disapointing, not just the game, but the console too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 13, 2006 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Resistance is possibly the most chaotic FPS I've played. The AI are genius, the difficulty is perfect, 
 and the weapon selection and enemy character types are simply amazing. The variety of the game 
 is also stunning. So many different weapons; each one has its specific bang. And the enemies are 
 just breathtaking. There are so many different kinds, each one scaring you just as much. In addition, 
 each level is different. In most war games, you might find the different areas not so different 
 after all, but each level on Resistance is unique. It's just so much fun, you'll love it. Highly 
 recommended, best launch game for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Demonstrative1
Rating: 6.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I never really felt like I was playing this game. Its single-player campaign is almost painfully 
 linear, and I felt, in some places more than others, that there was a set way the game wanted me 
 to dispatch my enemies. It also feels like it's trying too hard to borrow from more classic series 
 (Half-life and Halo spring to mind) , but never measures up to its source material.
  
  The game looks good, there's no denying that, but everything is very. . . gray. Even Gears of War 
 found ways to add little splashes of color here and there, but in Resistance everything about the 
 gaming experience feels just a little too beige. It sounds OK too, but some sounds kind of made 
 me turn up nose, most noticeably the shotgun. The thing reams bad guys, but it sounds like a pop 
 gun when you fire it. I liked the voice acting for the most part, though.
  
  The game's online community leaves something to be desired; maps are sprawling and seem fairly 
 well-constructed, but I've yet to have much luck finding many people to fill them.
  
  Overall, if you were going to make this game your reason for buying a PS3, I'd say hold off until 
 something more worthwhile is released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GnarlsB
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 12, 2006 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Resestance: Fall of man, first person shooter made by the platformer team Insomniac games. When 
 playing this game I saw some similar controls and aspects of their previous games. The guns are 
 really wacky and different than your typical first person shooter categories, but more around this 
 game is for the better or the worst a serious game. Aliens have taken control over the world in 
 the time period of the world wars. Britain is last man's hope for a barrier and all chaos breaks 
 loose, it is up to you to make sure that man is not ready for extinction.
  
  Pros+: Shooting factors all fit into the game nicely, game has you doing ton of things and allies 
 to fight-alongside with; Graphics are highly detailed and the Chimeras look terriyfing; Sound is 
 decent, but voice acting could've been better; Multiplayer is a big reason to play the game because 
 of the many options you have.
  
  Cons-: Controls take a while to get used to; Graphics are nice, but not everything runs smoothly; 
 Voice acting; Story is a little dissapointing.
  
  Overall: If you are looking for a Good first Person shooter definatly pick this one up for the 
 Online play, but if you have no buddies the game can get a little boring after a few playthroughs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3XnemesisX3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 12, 2006 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall Of Man brings it all. nonstop action, thrill, a campain worth playing over and 
 over, and great multiplayer with its online support. If the storyline isnt enough for you, then 
 maybe the chimera are. just looking at these creatures is enough to make you say cool and at the 
 same time, make you want to blow their brains all over the beautiful environments. The campaign 
 is great. nonstop action makes you stay put in front of the tv, and play as long as possible. with 
 the awesome selection of guns, enemies, and grenades, you can never get bored of this game. and 
 i havent even talked about the online multiplayer. with the huge maps layed out for you you can 
 take part in a 40 v. 40 matchup, being able to control both the human and chimera breed. you'll 
 find yourself addicted to the high tempo, adrenaline pumping action induced by this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DylanDJK
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:16 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knew this game was going to be big, and it delivers what it was expected to. The story 
 contains 10-15 hours of Gameplay which is always alot of time for a First Person Shooter. The game 
 you can tell was made off of Halo platform, for example the Bulleyes seems an awful lot like the 
 Stinger from the Halo series. The 'Floating lifts are directly out of Halo and seem ripped off. 
 The bad being said there is plenty more good then bad. I can only play this game on a Standard 
 defition TV and It looks visually stunning. The guns are highly detailed and the chimera are so 
 grossly detailed that i found myself staring at a dead chimera for a few seconds just to see the 
 grewsomeness. This being said, this game would have faired better for a few more months of develop 
 as some of the textures used seem flat and PS2-Like . Online for this game is simply amazing for 
 a free platform. Ranked games are horribly organized, just throwing you into random matches, usually 
 with only 16 of a possible 40 players and mainly the games are C. T. F (Capture the flag) . With the 
 ranked servers being bad, the unranked would be even worse right? WRONG. I usually just play online 
 FPS games on my PC such as Battlefield 2 and I felt right at home with the unranked options for 
 this game. Games ranging from 40-8 players up for play and extremely set up greater then PS2 games 
 are. When playing, you can use a Bluetooth headset to communicate, but not many do. The games range 
 from Breach types to Team Deathmatches, giving you plenty of servers to choose from.
  
  If you are getting a PS3 before the big guns show up, this game is a great holder and amazing game. 
 WAY more then the 8.6 Gamespot gave it. Let's just hope Insomniac stays true to its word and makes 
 an even better Resistance Sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EvilZenos
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:09 pm PT
Review:  After releasing the Ratchet and Clank Seriers to the world. Insomniac Games Made its deput on the 
 Next Gen console, the Ps3. Considered one of the best launch titles for any next gen console. Resistance: 
 Fall of man has showed us that team Insomniac can do more then make 3rd person action adventures. 
 Resistance puts together everything you love from FPS's. Resistance Starts off by showing us these 
 creatures called the Chimera and how they have taken over mostly all of Europ. America Steps in 
 to deliver some weapons and this is where you will hop into the game. You play as Sgt. Hale who 
 is part of delivering these weapons to Europ to help fight off the Chimera. You will notice the 
 beautiful graphics as you see a plan crashing down into a building near you. You will shoot your 
 way through many diffrent levels of the game from trying to take hold of bases., to going out alone 
 fighting off the Chimera single handley. To finish the whole game, this will take you atleast 14-16 
 hours.
  
  But enough about the Story, and time for what you really want to hear about. The gameplay. When 
 you first pick up the controler and if you are familer with FPS's. The controles should almost 
 feel the same as any FPS game, but that is deffinetly not a bad thing. The AI is simply amazing. 
 As your fighting of the Chimera. You will see them take cover, gather into bigger groups and try 
 to flank you, and even when you think your safe from hideing behind a corner, you will see a little 
 HedgeHog grenade fly by you. Another good thing about Resistance: Fall of man, is the multiplayer. 
 Once you jump right into the online play. You will see 40/40 games going on, also many diffrent 
 game modes, including ranked and unranked games, and a buddylist where you can keep track of you 
 friends. In the online game. You can choose between a human or a Chimera. Now Humans can sprint 
 forever but as they do this, they can not shoot accuratly, and also they have use of the radar. 
 Now for the Chimera. They can go into something called rage mode, this allows them to sprint only 
 for a short time but they have nearly perfect aim as they sprint. Now the Chimera's Dont use the 
 Radar so while in rage mode, they can see through walls witch is very helpfull. Now where the game 
 shines the most is in the weapons. You will see as you play the game many diffrent weapons that 
 each do very cool diffrent things. Like the BullsEye Where you use your secondary fire to shoot 
 out a tag that hits your enemy and you can shoot wherever you want too and the bullets will go 
 directly at him. Another one of my favorite guns would have to be the Auger. The Auger allows you 
 to shoot through walls, and if you press your secondary fire, a shield will appear witch will last 
 abotu 7 seconds infront of you so your enemy's cant shoot you, but you can shoot them.
  
  Now for the down sides to the game. Even tho Resistance: Fall of Man is a great FPS. It really 
 doesnt offer anything new or diffrent then the other FPS's that are out there. The grapics for 
 this game are amazing. But you will see some not so pretty texture but that only occurs a few times 
 during the whole game. And It does not support online coop mode, only offline coop mode. The story 
 also doesnt explain to much about the Chimera's or Sgt. Hale and leaves some unanswered Questions.
 
  
  Final Thoughts: Resistance: Fall of Man is without a doupt, a must have game for the Ps3. I would 
 suggest anyone who is into FPS's and just got a Ps3, to go pick up this game. Its not quit up there 
 with some other FPS's but is not far behind at all. The future for this game is Promising and If 
 this is only a luanch title, I'am sure we can all agree, that we can't wait to see what other games 
 will come out for the Ps3 in the long run. Written by: Chris Medwid 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beardedd123
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 11, 2006 3:10 pm PT
Review:  Sweet..... First i thought why get a ps3 on launch date then this game came along... above all 
 the people that waiting in line, not one checkout with a ps3 without picking up RFOM Im mean i 
 could only start by saying how amazingly great this game and how is shines but doesnt even show 
 what the ps is capable of... just to beging with the basics the story not that it has much depth 
 in but the gameplay in the story and the action of the AI is spectacullar.. but then there is this 
 thing that sets in aside from other FPS.. which is Multiplayer and not just original mutiplayer 
 like halo 2... but this game is just as well insane with 40ppl online that makes this game stand 
 out tall... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 11:38 am PT
Review:  Aiming can be a little tough, but jsut get a hold of the RPG and you won't have to worrie about 
 that... All in all the game is sick, a must have if you own a PS3. The Intro was captivating and 
 graphics were even better. Within minutes you are completly involved and even the people that are 
 watching are having a good time. The multiplay is a little lacking, online is only you and the 
 rest of the world, so playing with friends sitting next to you isn't going to happen online. I 
 can't wait to get further along in the story and see what happens next. It's a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hunter8man
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 7:37 am PT
Review:  Out of all the launch titles announced for the PS3, Resistance looked to be the one with the most 
 hype attached to it. After playing it for a while, the hype was worth it.
  
  Is it a Halo killer? Probably not. But it's one of the best FPS out there, and a good indication 
 of what the PS3 is capable of. Beautiful graphics are found all over the place. No clippings or 
 enemies being able to shoot me through walls (unless they have the Auger weapon) . Everything in 
 Resistance has a great amount of detail, as do the monsters. The sound is great with heavy gun 
 sounds, monsters screeching in the background, and realistic voice acting. The plot is pretty decent 
 for an FPS, but I doubt it'll really pull you into the game. The controls handle very well, and 
 it's almost seamless to switch or reload weapons. I like the fact that the game isn't too hard, 
 but it's not completely easy either. However, I found being able to run into a huge group of enemies 
 and killing them all with my shotgun way too easy. Overall, it's one of the better FPS's out there. 
 It has everything that Halo does minus the involved plot. It's not going to sway anyone from playing 
 Halo or Half-Life, but it's an excellent alternative for Playstation 3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chien_Rouge
Rating: 9.4
Date: Dec 11, 2006 1:06 am PT
Review:  This is perhaps the best FPS that I have played since the second Timesplitters game came out. Resistance 
 has been criticized for being an excellent game, but not an original game. This is rather unfair. 
 The developers created a story that no one else has attempted. Sure there were aliens, and WWII-esque 
 uniforms and weapons, but how does that make it unoriginal. To quote the old adage, there is nothing 
 new under the sun. Ever game made is in debt to another. We created things based on what we have 
 experienced in life, and therefore everything, in a sense, is a culmination of various influences. 
 Anyone who states that Resistance is unoriginal while claiming other games as original are really 
 short-sighted or very biased. Resistance is an excellent game, and it is by far the best shooter 
 (or game for that matter) for the PS3 at the moment. This game has so much going on all around 
 you that you feel as if you are in the midst of some larger war and not just an isolated fight. 
 For the most part, every other FPS has no action beside where you are. If there is other action 
 it is still generally focused on you. However, there are plenty of times where you are isolated 
 and you are fighting the enemy in tunnels or in trenches. These situations are as intense as they 
 should be and you feel totally alone. Where ever you are and whatever the situation the visuals 
 and the score really set the mood perfectly. Some other notable aspects of Resistance are the multiplayer 
 offline and online. Online is fantastic and really lag-free for up to 40 players at a time. The 
 offline multiplayer is made by the inclusion of co-op mode. This is a feature too little used in 
 FPS these days. Sadly there is no co-op for online nor are there bots for offline. All FPS today 
 should have both of these options. There is no reason for them not to be included, but aside from 
 Timesplitters, no FPS does included all of these, at least not yet. These are the biggest drawbacks 
 of the game. These by no means seriously harm the game's fun factor, but they do hinder the game 
 from perfection. Had there been bots, this game would have garnered a 10, but as it is, it is just 
 shy of perfect. In the end, this is the must own title for the PS3 and it ably shows how the system 
 could overwhelm everyone else. This game looks just as good if not better than even most of the 
 new releases and it has a much larger world, more interaction, more stuff happening on screen, 
 and all at a flawless framerate. This is truly a game to behold, and although it is not perfect 
 it does suggest that future games exclusively for the PS3 will be unbelievable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 9.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was hyped as the must-have launch title for the PS3 and it definatley lives 
 up to it that title. Resistance proves both to be an awesome launch game for the PS3 and one of 
 the best FPSs released in a while.
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man at its core is a twitch shooter similar to Halo or Call of Duty, which 
 in itself is not bad at all. But added on top of that is an amazing campaign with a very deep story 
 and great enviornments. Instead of throwing infinite amounts of enemies at you Resistance has a 
 limited number of opposition per fight, so after you clear an area you can search around for hidden 
 documents that let you dive deeper into the story, or get more health and ammo. The weapons themselves 
 in Resistance are abundant and all very fun to use (which shouldn't be a surprise considering this 
 game is made by the developers of Ratchet and Clank.) Also thrown into the singleplayer campaign 
 are a few vehicles segments where you can jump into a jeep or a tank and continue wreaking havoc 
 on your enemies. In terms of multiplayer, there is a basic co-op mode in which you can play through 
 the singleplayer campaign with a buddy, though it is basic it still proves to be great fun. But 
 where the multiplayer really shines is the 40 player online. There are your basic team deathmatch, 
 deathmatch and last-man-standing modes as well as the more team-based modes which task you with 
 either taking over points of interest on the given map or destroying them. A great addition to 
 the multiplayer is the fact that the humans and Chimera (aliens) have different abilities. The 
 humans have a basic sprint and can see enemies on their radar, while the Chimera cannot but they 
 have a more advanced sprint in which they can also see all targets in their vision, even if they 
 are behind a wall. The one gripe I have with the game play is that its not original enough to set 
 it apart too much from other FPS titles.
  
  The graphics in Resistance are great and definatley look next-gen. All the models and enviornments 
 look amazing thanks to great textures, animations and bump/normal mapping. The graphical effects 
 are also good like lighting, reflections and explosions, though there is room for improvement.
 
  
  The sound in Resistance is amazing. Huge fight sequences really come to life because of detailed 
 sound effects, like battle-chatter and explosions. The voice-over work is also well done and in 
 surround sound Resistance sounds even better.
  
  You will be playing Resistance for a long time thanks to a pretty lengthy singleplayer campaign 
 (8-12 hours) as well as fun co-op and online multiplayer modes. Resistance also features a system 
 where you can unlock extras like in Ratchet and Clank by completing certain tasks in every mission. 
 There are also new weapons and challenges to be found on your second and third times through the 
 game.
  
  Resistance is an amazing game that definatley lives up to its hype. This game is a must-have for 
 PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumguru1
Rating: 6.2
Date: Dec 10, 2006 1:45 pm PT
Review:  I got a Ps3 in early december. I was so excited to paly this game considering I had read an article 
 in Game Informer where the author stated that this was sony's answer to microsoft's Halo series.
 
  I expected the multiplayer to have vehicles, did they?... NO. I expected it to have a fun singleplayer 
 campaign and it was fun for the first couple of minutes. Then it got stupid and old. I will give 
 the game's plot credit. I dont think that anyone has ever thought about an alien/virus invasion 
 in the 1950's. Very original but maybe there is a reason for that. You can't take cover behind 
 walls, you can't tell your teamates where to go because you are the sole survivor of the first 
 attack. This game has nothing special about it exept its plot. If you have an xbox 360 and like 
 this kind of non realistic war plot, I definately suggest you get Gears of War. As for Resistance 
 fall of Man, it wasn't even the best WWII era FPS. That, in my opinion, belongs to Call of Duty 
 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Basinboy
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  Understanding that Xbox 360 had a year's ground on them, Sony knew coming in that they couldn't 
 afford to be passed over or ignored during launch. Well, some games didn't quite cut it, but Resistance 
 isn't one of them. Resistance introduces (*shock*) some new and interesting weaponry and ideas 
 to the FPS genre, bundling it all together in a package filled with intense firefights, ridiculous 
 difficulty, and one incredible rush.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Years from now when you remember this game, the gameplay will be the reason. In a genre full of 
 rip-offs, copycats, and stale progression, Resistance manages to avoid all three and instead find 
 an identity nobody thought it could. I mean, mixing a sci-fi FPS with a WW2 FPS doesn't exactly 
 come across as innovative in this day and age anymore. But Insomniac proves everybody wrong with 
 this game and shows that all it takes is passion, creativity, and hard work. No other FPS game 
 on the market has near the variety nor creativity in weaponry that Resistance: FOM does. From the 
 Auger that shoots through walls to the Chimeran Seeder that plants bionic mines to the hedgehog 
 and air feul grenades, Resistance creates one serious arsenal. But the arsenal isn't the only thing 
 that shines. It's nice to know that you can't just run through this game; you have to outsmart 
 it. The AI knows when it's getting shot and isn't too particular about, so it knows when to hide 
 and move out of your line of fire. Plus, they know how to charge at you and take you down instead 
 of walking out into the middle of no-man's land. Add with that around a dozen of various enemies 
 to kill, and you've got yourself a game that's not only a cinematic story, but a killer obstacle 
 as well. But if Single Player isn't your thing, fret not, because this game really shines in the 
 multiplayer. It seems to have faster framerate than single player and I have yet to experience 
 any lag. So, online works quite well, and with their very intricate and balanced maps for team 
 play and free-for-all, it will be tough to be disappointed.
  
  OVERALL..........10/10
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  For as praising as I was in the gameplay section, don't expect much from here. 
 Though Resistance is an intense firefight, it doesn't exactly offer the visuals that are becoming 
 the standard in the industry. The lack of textures and some really bland environments make us feel 
 quite ill at times and will make your eyes want to vomit. It's not that there isn't a lot on screen, 
 because there is, it's just that they haven't been given the touch-ups that time could've granted 
 them. Character models, though not nearly as attrocious as Perfect Dark Zero, still seem unfinished 
 and slapped together from middleware or hurriedly built in order to fit the launch window. The 
 ground and buildings and some of the vehicles drive also appear really sub-par. The guns, at least, 
 weren't sacrificed and you still get some great visuals from those, but everything else is near 
 the point of impressionism. There's just not a lot of detail on the details, which is what is turning 
 out to be quite the eye-candy nowadays. Though the graphics are very, very tolerable, they're just 
 not on the next level with games like Gears of War. Still good, but not nearly as good as I fear 
 they could've been.
  
  OVERALL......7/10
  
  SOUND
  
  I've never been such a sound nitpick, but I'll admit that it is a very important aspect to a game. 
 I mean, if Call of Duty didn't have the sound in its games that it does, you'd be pretty disappointed 
 with the $60 purchase. But it does, which makes it one of the best experiences in FPS gaming. Well, 
 Resistance's guns and background music (as well as sound effects) are very top notch. They don't 
 offer quite the What the hell just went by my face!? effect that Call of Duty or other games offer, 
 but at least it isn't a capgun contest. Very striking, just not chill shiverring good.
  
  OVERALL................8.5/10
  
  REPLAY VALUE
  
  Insomniac, you little devil. Now, a lot 
 of us may be disappointed that Sony decided not to jump on the Gamerscore program that X360 established, 
 but Insomniac felt that they would. So, in this game, beating the game through once is only going 
 to do so much for you. You've got to work at it in order to get what you want. What do I mean? 
 Insomniac has installed a bunch of extras for you to unlock, but only by accomplishing certain 
 tasks can you unlock those. Not only are those videos and galleries locked, but some of the games 
 weaponry is also locked unless you play through the game twice. Now, there are so many weapons 
 in Resistance: FOM that you'll be very impressed with just one play through, but playing through 
 it twice or three times or the multiplayer will really give you the full line-up of what Resistance 
 has to offer.
  
  OVERALL..................9/10
  
  CONTROL
  
  Ah, another big question. We all know that the PS2 was not a very good system for FPS, nor was 
 it built to handle them. The Dualshock couldn't have been a worse controller for playing FPS, but 
 at least it was better, IMO, than the GCs. Sorry, I'll stop hating, but I have to praise the Sixaxis 
 for the minor changes that have really made the controller much more than what it has been. I, 
 being a fan of the boomerang design myself, was disappointed with the revelation of the SIXAXIS 
 controller at E3, but I can't say it's a bad controller. The smaller joysticks and the rear trigger 
 buttons really do make this controller better than it's ever been and just as good for FPS as any 
 other on the market. Even if you prefer the staggered joystick design (which I myself do) , you'll 
 hardly notice the same-level line of the sticks on the SIXAXIS. It all moves well and functions 
 as good as a FPS can be expected to.
  
  OVERALL...........9/10
  
  Resistance is too good of a game not to give it the praise I have. And it's much too good not to, 
 at least, give a rental. The game is well-crafted and handled by Insomniac and is definitely a 
 great and brand new IP for the company, which I hope that they continue to expound upon in the 
 future. Though it doesn't lack the visual punch of Gears of War, it does offer the gameplay. And 
 if you want an enemy to hate and feel oppressed and overwhelmed by, it's the Chimera. The Locust 
 Horde from Gears of War might be frightening, but the Chimera are, IMO, theoretically the most 
 frightening and intense alien enemy introduced to gaming in recent history. They make you feel 
 like the Covenant did in the first Halo game, and that's something only the best can say they've 
 done. And Resistance can say that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthonygalati
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 9, 2006 11:49 pm PT
Review:  Well The game is made by the creators of Ratchet And Clank which is an awsome series. But this is 
 a different game.... When i first played it I instantly felt the sense of better frames per second 
 everything just moves soo smoothly and with precise controls.. the story is alot cheesy but the 
 gameplay makes up for it. Nice cgi cutscense also. But the multiplayer is where its at 40 players 
 online and i haven't had lag yet and i've played at least 30 games. So thats is awsome to my standard 
 for consoles. It does have that call of duty feel and look to it , in certain area's but the weapon 
 selection is vast and pretty cool. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhaxdric
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 11, 2006 4:47 pm PT
Review:  ---GAMEPLAY ---
  Gameplay on this game was pretty amazing. It is surely not a run and gun. You'll find yourself 
 using new strategies as you get new weapons. When you first start. it's just take cover, shoot, 
 and the occasional grenade. But as time goes on, and with more weapons in your arsenal, you will 
 find yourself switching weapons to take out different enemies. Another thing this game delivers 
 on is the time you'll invest in it. It took me about 15 hours to beat the game. Pretty long for 
 a FPS. The online is great too. 40 player deathmatches are always insane. They also have some unique 
 online games like Breach, Conversion, and Meltdown. Meltdown causing you to go to a teams base 
 and cause it to overheat. But the other games you'd expect are there too. Capture the Flag, Team 
 Deathmatch, and as I mentioned, Deathmatch.
  
  ---GRAPHICS ---
  The graphics aren't the best you'll see, but they are next-gen. Also, every level has it's unique 
 style. While some look alike, they have differences. You'll find yourself in the streets of a ruined 
 Manchester, destroyed subway station, a field filled with alien bunkers, a huge pit with Chimeran 
 towers, snow covered London, and the Chimeran's main base. ---SOUND ---
  The sound in this game was great, as expected. FPS games have been doing sounds amazing lately. 
 Bombs hitting the ground making a screaming sound before they hit. Teammates yelling at alien forces. 
 But other times while alone, you'll hear nothing but occasional growl from a Chimera, causing slight 
 paranoia and making you pay attention. The music is pretty good also. It's not the most amazing... 
 but it's up to snuff.
  
  ---STORY ---
  The story of this game was amazing. One that will probably be overlooked very much. I was thinking 
 it wasn't going to be any good, but Insomniac did a great job. And they; ve already foreshadowed 
 tons of things. Although just playing through the game will leave you slightly confused, if you 
 search levels deeply, you'll find many hidden documents. Some that can help you defeat enemies, 
 others revealing secrets of the game, while others are there to make the game deeper and give it 
 more.... (for lack of a better word) feeling.
  
  ---CONCLUSION ---
  In closing, I find this game to be a pretty innovative FPS, with all the essentials and more. The 
 game is a must have for a PS3 owner.
  
  ---EXTRAS ---
  The game has extra weapons that are unlockable when you beat the game. During a second playthrough, 
 you'll find new weapons along the way. Also, as you gain Skills Points (Points that are accumulated 
 by fulfilling certain tasks) you unlock things such as Concept art, Behind the scenes making of, 
 and cool clothes for your character's online model. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 20, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  I got my PS3 Tuesday the 5, and I picked this game up, along with COD3. All I can say is that it's 
 hard to stop playing this and play COD. This game delievers everywhere, and seriously, it is much 
 better than I expected.
  
  Gameplay-Let me first start out with the weapons. There are about a dozen weapons in the game, 
 and they are all extremely unique. In campaign, you unlock a new one about every 3 levels. You 
 start out with the standard 1950's machine-gun and work your way up. The cool thing is that they 
 all have very unique statistics. The alternate fires can greatly change battle and are very useful. 
 You can't beat the game without using every single one, except for maybe some of the bonus weapons 
 or the sapper, which shoots out globs of goop that explode. It is very cool I might add. Almost 
 everything has physics in this game. It is really fun to mess around with them. The enemies are 
 very awesome and are kind of creepy. They all have there strengths and weaknesses and there are 
 some really cool ones, like howlers and rollers. The campaign is quite long. I played it for 4 
 days and that is almost all I played. It has a very interesting storyline, and it always reveals 
 just enough at a time. One of the only flaws with the gameplay, though is that the game is very 
 inconsistent in difficulty. Sometimes you will breeze through and then you will get stuck on a 
 certain part. This can be extremely annoying. There are 4 difficutly levels and overall, the game 
 is very challenging. Once you finish the addictive campaign, you will move on two the online. I 
 must say the 40 player battles are fun, but they are very very chaotic. You can spawn and die 5 
 seconds later. But it adds to the excitement. There are several game modes, although my personal 
 favorite is just team deathmatch. Humans and chimera have slight differences but it is balanced 
 and is really great. There is also the co-op and splitscreen battle. All of these modes are very 
 fun and will keeped you hooked. This game is just plain fun.
  
  Graphics-The graphics are simply amazing, especially for a launch game. The two things that stick 
 out the most are the shadow effects and the snow effects. You have a flashlight and when you turn 
 it on you can really admire the shadows constantly being made. It is stunning. The snow is the 
 best snow I have ever seen in a video game, along with the shadowing. Every snowflake goes different 
 directions and there is a nice blur effect. You really have to see it to know what i'm talking 
 about. The levels are massive and have a bunch of stuff blowing up and going on. The graphics are 
 the same online and there is no subtraction of graphics there. But the really great part is that 
 there is almost never a slowdown in the framerate. I have only experienced it once or twice and 
 it is very small. It just goes to show you the potential of the PS3 if you know how to program 
 for it. This is a very good looking game. The only problem I have with the graphics are that bushes 
 are 2D and that there are some jagged edges here and there. Sound-The sound is very good in this 
 game. The music is very well done. There are some great symphony sounds used in big battles and 
 some creepy music parts too, for the creepy parts. The music isn't always going on though, which 
 is good. The voices are very nice and some of the chimera have some ferocious growls and howls. 
 There is a lot going on, and I think blu-ray helped that. You will never hear your gun not make 
 noise when a lot is going on if there is a lot of stuff going on. The Music isn't the best though. 
 Value-Resistance is a very long game. It has a very addictive and lengthy campaign, and you can 
 also play co-op. There are several difficutlies and some unlockables and skill points too. There 
 is also split-screen versus, and the online. Overall, this is one of the longest shooters you will 
 play. This is definately worth a buy and is a great game. I even recommend buying this game this 
 spring and all through next year. I'm throughly enjoyed with my PS3. I have 3 download games and 
 this and COD3. And I must say that I enjoy and play this one the most. It's a very solid shooter 
 that is a must play. Give it a try. This is an exceptional game, especially for the fact it's a 
 launch game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctmab
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 8, 2006 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man has some stunning visuals and excellent sound for a first generation Playstation 
 3 game. It makes some use of the motion sensing abilities of the SIXAXIS but it could of used it 
 a lot more. The campaign is great; although, the game feels a bit rushed at the end of the campaign. 
 Multiplayer is excellent and the community is always growing.
  
  The graphics are stunning for a first generation game. The lighting is perfect and accurate. The 
 physics are amusing on the campaign; you can interact with every dead body in some way. The physics 
 arent as good when online; dead body cannot be interacted with and it would have been nice if 
 the bodies stayed instead of dead bodies. The use of the motion sensors is minimal. The only real 
 use is to shake off enemies, bullseye tags, and fire. Neat, but it could have been used a lot more 
 through out the game. The campaign is fun to do, although the ending was a bit weak. The game ended 
 very abruptly and felt like they ran out of time to finish the game. The rest of the campaign was 
 great and had a lot of action. They did leave it open for a sequel at the end of the campaign, 
 so hopefully they do make one. Multiplayer is extremely fun. Most of the game types are a little 
 generic, but they each have a little bit of individuality. The community is always growing, creating 
 more and more 20 on 20 games.
  
  In the end this game is great. It has its flaws like every other game, but they are hardly noticeable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamespotedpuppy
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2006 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Being the developers of a lead game in a high profile console launch must be an unenviable position. 
 Outside of the normal pressures of making a good game critics and consumers are looking to that 
 title to define the value of the console as a whole. With some console launches, the 360, the PS2, 
 theres no one standout game so everyone shares the responsibility. Halo on the original Xbox and 
 now Resistance: Fall of Man for the PS3, share that other, more dubious honor, as lightning rods 
 for all the speculation on the future success of the new system. Having said that this review of 
 Resistance, is just that, only a review of Resistance, whether or not its a reason to buy what 
 I consider to being an onerously priced system is between you, your tastes and your wallet.
  
  Im happy to say, though, that Resistance is the best first-person shooter since that glorious 
 double whammy of Halo 2 and Half Life 2 way back in 2004.
  
  What accounts for the standout quality of the game has become a hallmark of its developer, Insomniac 
 Games. With the Ratchet and Clank series Insomniac demonstrated a command of pacing in videogames 
 that has no equal, and its sublimely present in Resistance. The game combines large-scale battle 
 scenarios reminiscent of Call of Duty 2, with tense corridor crawls a la Half-Life 2 and encounters 
 with massive enemies that just make you wonder how youre going to make it out alive. Each new 
 scenario feels fresh and distinct from the previous; not just a retread of the same tropes with 
 harder enemies. This combined with the constant addition of new weapons and creatures makes for 
 a gaming experience that is very difficult to put down. In fact, when this coffee and game-tension 
 addled reviewer had to go relieve himself during his two-day game reviewing marathon, he forced 
 the urine out faster in order to get back and start playing sooner. You probably didnt want to 
 know that, but I thought Id share anyway.
  
  The game is set in an alternate 1950s Europe that never saw World War II. Instead, a horrible 
 race of creatures called the Chimera emerged out of the Soviet Union and within months decimated 
 the continent. England is the last bastion of human survivors who form a rag-tag insurgency fighting 
 desperately against the scourge. You play an American soldier who is part of a belated effort from 
 the United Sates to deal with the problem. Suffice to say you become unique and the central player 
 in changing the course of the conflict.
  
  The game is exclusively set in England but dont expect just the war torn grandeur of Dear Old 
 Blighty. The Chimera have changed the terrain so much, that at times the landscape may very well 
 be on an alien planet. This is balanced with smaller cities and prominent English landmarks that 
 are used to excellent dramatic effect as a backdrop for the survival of mankind. Despite some lackluster 
 interior designs (apparently there are bars in every other room in England) , Resistance creates 
 a continuous dramatic mood through its aesthetic design that never lets you forget how dire your 
 situation is.
  
  Its worth noting that these salient qualities are not fully on display in the very beginning of 
 the game. In what I believe to be a deliberate stylistic choice the first couple of levels feel 
 very much like a traditional run and gun WWII shooter with monsters instead of Nazis. This works 
 in the collective whole of the game as you, as a soldier, are unaware of whats really happening 
 and only as you play and discover more does the gameplay evolve and change up into far more varied 
 and sophisticated scenarios. Were this game not under such a microscope I would find it warranting 
 any attention but this subtle beginning may turn off those expecting gaming transcendence at minute 
 one. Resistance is a creative work, not a sales pitch for Sony.
  
  Much of this creativity comes from the enemies you encounter, from the more humanoid hybrids to 
 the creepy and emaciated steel jacks to the overwhelming titans and widowmakers, the game throws 
 enemies at you that are surprising, and require some real thought to take down. The artificial 
 intelligence is appropriate to each type and can be decidedly wicked and impressive. Thankfully 
 their design and behavior doesnt hew to the standard of , heres three types of enemies now just 
 make increasingly tougher versions of each. While there are superior forms of some enemies its 
 the clever implementation of all types that keeps you on your toes and maintains a remarkable state 
 of both tension and fun throughout Resistance, its rare thatll youll ever guess whats around 
 the corner.
  
  Dealing with these nasties is another great part of the game and all Insomniac. The weaponry, while 
 not as loony as Ratchet, is similarly varied and proper usage is essential to survival. There are 
 a couple traditional weapons, the machine gun and (surprisingly effective) shot gun, but things 
 change up quickly. The Bullseye shoots ammunition rapidly and without great accuracy, but the alternate 
 fire plants a homing tag so you can take down an enemy from around a corner, shooting blindly. 
 The auger is another nasty invention that can shot through walls and enemies, gaining energy as 
 it transverses objects. Used frequently by your enemies, your only warning is a growing field of 
 energy on a surface to tell you to move away fast. These are only a couple examples of what you 
 will find your first time playing and a second playthrough will open up even more. As using these 
 weapons correctly is so key in the game choosing a new weapon pauses the action so you can make 
 your choice wisely and safely, this allows for some insanely frenetic battles where you can go 
 through several weapons in just one minute.
  
  Now if that werent enough Resistance comes with a sizable mulitplayer component as well. Up to 
 forty players can play at a time and even with some remarkably large levels, thats a lot of people, 
 especially for deathmatch. For the curious and less adept, the team games are a lot of fun. Team 
 death match, which puts human against chimera, was more fun than usual, perhaps because the two 
 sides are so different (chimera can move faster and see through walls but risk over heating when 
 doing so, humans get radar and the ability to crouch) . There are two other variants that involve 
 coolant nodes; in Meltdown you want too hold them all and in Breach you take control of them in 
 a certain order to destroy the other teams base. If youre looking to expand the game with multiplayer, 
 you cant go wrong here.
  
  Resistance is an exceptional example of what makes good games good, the synthesis of several well 
 developed elements into one seamless whole that never distracts you from the action and excitement 
 and doesnt use up its bag of tricks early to just stick you with slight alteration for the remainder 
 of playing. Up until the very end I wanted to keep playing and see what was next, that is what 
 next-gen gaming still needs to be about, not just one slick gimmick that couldnt be done before. 
 Insomniac has accomplished this in grand style. When I finally get around to getting a PS3 I will 
 be playing it again without question. Simply put; this game is awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kruegmeister
Rating: 9.9
Date: Dec 7, 2006 8:20 pm PT
Review:  This game looks awesome. I think Gears of war for the 360 has a slight edge on the Pretty Scale 
 . However, this game kicks its butt on ambiance.
  There is so much going on. On the 360 I thought the Backgrounds were better than Last Gen but now 
 on the PS3 I am starting to see improvements beyond that. For instance in Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter you can see other parts of the city in the background. Well in Resistance, not only 
 can I see parts of the City in the background, but I can see things happening over there as well. 
 There are explosions, and smoke, and Flames, and Birds, and Planes... This to me is the Way cool 
 Factor.
  Then in another level, I think it was the 2nd one. There is a bunch of brush and trees. The brush, 
 grass, and trees all sway in the wind independently, Heck I bet the Even tasked a Processor just 
 to handle things in the wind. You stare out in front of yourself and it is just awesome watching 
 the Background just coming alive.
  
  The Enemy AI is Very Good. You have to use Cover, OR Flank from somewhere else other than where 
 your company is attacking from, OR go into Zoom mode dodging bullets taking head shots. The big 
 difference for myself would be the OR in that statement, you see in Gears of War you have to use 
 Cover. The Game is all about Cover. OK if i am this Big Bad Dude... Then why do I have to Cower 
 like a little girl behind cover. This is the Reason why I got to my Resistance Review before my 
 Gears of War Review. I finished Resistance... and I am going back for a second round, before I 
 will get back to finishing Gears for the 1st Time. Not to say that I think Gears is bad.
  
  40 Players online. Holy $&amp;#*. Gears only has 8 Players. Why am I paying $50 a year for XBox 
 Live??? I thought Xbox Live was supposed to be so much better... and the best we can do is 8...
 
  The Different modes are all pretty good.
  
  The Weapons are a nice variety and all very cool.
  Boss battles are exhilarating.
  Sometimes 
 I just like to stand around and shoot the glass or stare at the water, because it is done very 
 well. The Glass breaks in a different way for a Rifle Butt than a shot from a gun. Every time you 
 hit the glass it breaks away in a realistic fashion.
  
  The Sound I thought was done pretty well. Even on my TV Speakers the Voices would seem to surround 
 me. I never got Lost because I could just turn in the Direction of where the War is going on.
 
  
  Vehicles are very Nice. The Reviewer complained that the Vehicles were to Powerful, but it did 
 not bother me at all. Heck, after getting my butt kicked by the AI for a couple of hours, a vehicle 
 that allows me to rule the roost for a couple of minutes is a nice way to go... Blow up window... 
 Blow Up Bus... Blow up Car... Fun stuff
  
  The Gamespot Reviewer called the Visuals Derivative visual style in my opinion it is the same Derivative 
 that Gears of War is sporting around. It is that Grey and Brown tone graphics that gives you that 
 War feel. I feel it works very well. Oh Yeah, one more cool thing... If you kill the Chimera there 
 Cooling Life support Tubes will pop out if you hit them from the side or the back, then they will 
 flop around blowing out coolant for a few seconds until it runs out, Very nice touch.
  
  I think the only reason why this game has a You Say Rating of just above 8 is because most of those 
 360 Fanboys are nuts enough to come over to the PS3 pages just to give this game a rating of 2 
 so they can drag the score down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: resist1
Rating: 3.4
Date: Dec 7, 2006 7:27 pm PT
Review:  IVe stood inline for the ps3 for 3 days, not only this game pathetic, in every sense of the word, 
 from mideocre graphics weather u have high def or not, sound is mostly generic and lousy, and the 
 repetitious uninventful, boring and inane gameplay to boot makes this Suppposed release title the 
 best ps3 has to offer is completely and utterly shameful and greedy as sony themselves!
  Not only is Sony charging 600 + for the system, and 130 for the high def cables which arent included. 
 but the system gets soo hot in 30 mins you can fry an egg on it! The disguitingly bad line up of 
 games is a huge minus for sony and the only reason this CRAP GAME is getting good reviews is beacuse 
 the hype of ps3 is clouding their jugdment and they cant see for the fact that this system so far 
 is just the same graphical powers and this game especially as xbox, and ps2 were.
  I've bought and returned my system to Best Buy, sony let me down after 10 years of owning the market, 
 and and extra year to better themselves over xbox360, Sony showed us that its a greedy giant. And 
 the bigger they are the harder they fall!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xIxrubenxIx
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 6, 2006 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Resistance :fall of man i got admit i jus plain fun i the you mus own title for the ps3 this game 
 is very revolutionary in all the different types or armas that you can use it is just amzing all 
 the funcionalities this games is just better that the horrible perfect darka zero we have on launch 
 day for the 360 the history is good i mean it woul take you about 10 hours about to finish it and 
 the bad point is that well you dont get to know many about of your principal character but the 
 what makes great this game is not the history is the multiplayer is just perfect and very fun to 
 play it can support 40 players. So if you are a fps player you must own this game . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neodragon1
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 6, 2006 4:26 pm PT
Review:  once you pass the game there wont be nothing to do except if you have online play. in online play 
 you can duke it out with 40 of your friends or enimes
  if you play online all day you might become the #1 player of the game.
  in story mode its a little 
 hard if your new to shooter games. but if your an expert you might find it quite easy. if your 
 are brand new to shooter game you should propibly play call of duty 1 or just get beter by repeting 
 the first lv again and again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creed1706
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 11:57 am PT
Review:  This entire game is awesome. Every single battle is intense. I never got bored with it. There are 
 constant fire fights, and some of the toughest enemies I've ever seen. So let me get started on 
 the gameplay and what not now. I havent gotten to play the multiplayer yet but thats because I 
 was only able to get the 20 gig ps3. So I still havent gotten my system hooked up to the internet 
 yet. The graphics: intense, crazily realistic. The scenery in some of these towns in England are 
 so realistic. The makers did some serious detailing on all parts of this game, from the cities 
 to the people and chimera. I look forward to the sequel of this game. The gameplay: It's not too 
 difficult to get the hang of the gameplay. After about 30 minutes you should have the gameplay 
 down almost perfectly. The system works out great for switching weapons and throwing grenades. 
 The sounds: Every bullet ripping through a body sounds real. Totally wicked. Explosions are so 
 real that its like you're actually their. Difficulty: I played this game on an easy setting and 
 it was still difficult! I have yet to play it on the hardest setting but I imagine it would be 
 incredibly difficult to play. All in all, I recommend this game to everyone. I have friends who 
 love rpg's and just rpg's but they loved this game!! and my friends who love fps's loved this game 
 so much more. There is no game quite like this one. Everything about this game is absolutely amazing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodemon
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2006 8:50 am PT
Review:  The single player campaign is pretty good, because it moves you through different levels at a fairly 
 good pace, there are plenty of good firefights in each of the levels, especially the one at the 
 beginning of the Nottingham level... as a matter of fact that one was pretty intense so make sure 
 to crank up the volume when you get to that level of the game. Now the Gamespot review had some 
 interesting points like how the story could have been a little better. Yes the story could have 
 been alot better. But have any of you guys actually played Ratchet and Clank? It doesnt always 
 have the most convincing story either, but the gameplay is always stellar, and thats what resistance 
 is as far as gameplay goes. Melee punches, big guns, awesome graphics, sweet sound effects, extremely 
 deep online modes, including ranked and unranked matches; this game has all of that!
  
  Ok so I didnt know a whole lot about Resistance before I played it the first night I got my PS3. 
 Let me make this clear to whoever reads this review. This game is freakin sweet. especially the 
 online modes. I say this because I havent seen one single hickup online and i mean it has a buttery 
 smooth framerate ALL the time, another great thing about online for PS3... its absolutely free!
 
  Most of the people online right now I would have to say are just having alot of fun. I havent 
 seen any cheaters or obscene campers. In fact the multiplayer online is so fast paced it helps 
 if you switch controller sensitivity to max at the beginning just so you stand a fighting chance 
 online.
  One word of advice for all you guys looking for a sweet game mode to play online, make sure to 
 try out the meltdown and breach modes of multiplayer if you really want to have a good time. The 
 best capture the flag match is Somerset map, especially with unlimited ammos.
  
  look me up my gamers name is either TheTexan11 or jaegerman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seph_Zero
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2006 7:07 am PT
Review:  don't listen to ppls out there that tell you that this game sukz... it really doesn't... if u notice 
 all of the ppls that review this game &amp; give it a bad score say it didn't have story but they 
 don't back up what they say... this is the truth
  
  Resistance is an amazing game... no one could have guessed that an amazing killer ap would be available 
 at launch date for the ps3... but it happened... Resistance is the best game for ps3 thus far... 
 what's my reasoning? well, for one thing, Insomniac is known for exotic weapons, which this game 
 is full of... some weapons may seem dull like the LAARK (which to me seemed like another rocket 
 launcher) but it lets u control the rocket (steer it around alittle to better your aim) so what 
 u ask? ur probably thinking that oh yea alot of fps i know have it well that's just the thing... 
 most other fps don't take place in the 1950s.. most other fps don't have such a vivid display of 
 weaponry &amp; realism... the story for this game is amazing... it makes you want a sequal for 
 it &amp; they probably will make one (i'm not gonna spoil it for ya so don't freak out...) the 
 game overall is fun too... i've played the game 2 times so far &amp; i'm not gonna stop... it's 
 just too much fun... the multiplayer is another good thing... ppls i know were like oh 40 ppls online 
 that's gonna suck cuz it's gonna lag so much ... yea here's the deal... NO LAG! that's right even 
 on my sucky connection i experience no lag whatsoever... plus with a wide variety of game modes 
 (capture the flag, deathmatch, team deathmatch, meltdown, conversion) it never gets old (unless 
 some idiots set up a team deathmatch with only LAARKs... which is so boring cuz u die every 2 seconds) 
 not only that, but the chimaira &amp; the humans have a few tricks up there sleeves... The humans 
 can crouch (which doesn't seem like much but believe me it helps alot) while the chimaira can use 
 somthing i like to call bloody rage .. it's not bloody or anything, but it lets you see anyone 
 in view (even through walls) &amp; run alot faster, but the downside is that you can overheat (represented 
 by a bar over your health) &amp; when u catch on fire you die much faster than humans, but this 
 makes sense because the chimaira hate heat... the graphics are really realistic too... the cut-scene 
 graphics are on par with the in-game graphics, which are extremely smooth... the sounds, too, are 
 top notch... the voice acting is very well done &amp; the voice actors must have put alot of feeling 
 into it... the musical score makes you feel like your at war with an unknown species while keeping 
 the feel of WWII.... if you like fps, then this is the game for you... if your a halo lover, then 
 u better say bye bye to master chief, cuz this game is too perfect.... if you just won't play this 
 cuz u love halo too much, then u really are weird... but for all of you others out there looking 
 for a good fps (and those like me that got bored of halo &amp; halo 2 after beating it on legendary 
 on a single try) , look no further... cuz this hard hitting sci-fi fps is right for you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anthis_tyrr
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 5, 2006 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Not too shabby for a first generation shooter, but absolutely nothing to make it stand apart from 
 any other shooter. Just not what you would expect as a next generation launch title, an ok game 
 but nothing new or stunning. These days graphics are great and all, but it really takes a little 
 something extra, something new or doing something better than anyone else in order for a game to 
 stand out. It's a real shame because the premise had so much potential but was simply under-utilized 
 and under-developed. Basically, it takes more then a few new weapons and a good idea to make a 
 successful game
  Hopefully the developer will learn from their mistakes in the sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: idealbasher
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 5, 2006 12:16 am PT
Review:  If you consider yourself a fan of first-person shooters, then you really owe it to yourself to 
 give Resistance: Fall of Man a shot. Whether that means taking the plunge for a PlayStation 3, 
 playing one over at your filthy-rich friend's house, or whatever else it's going to take is beside 
 the point. What matters is that developer Insomniac Games took the best aspects of some of the 
 best first-person shooters from the past couple of years, added some great weapons and visual flourishes, 
 and put it all together just in time for the PS3's launch. If you consider yourself a fan of first-person 
 shooters, then you really owe it to yourself to give Resistance: Fall of Man a shot. Whether that 
 means taking the plunge for a PlayStation 3, playing one over at your filthy-rich friend's house, 
 or whatever else it's going to take is beside the point. What matters is that developer Insomniac 
 Games took the best aspects of some of the best first-person shooters from the past couple of years, 
 added some great weapons and visual flourishes, and put it all together just in time for the PS3's 
 launch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roxas12934
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 4, 2006 8:31 pm PT
Review:  This FPS is a great first game to buy for your Ps3. Amazing graphics to killer looking enimies. 
 Lots of cool weapons and the coolest thing that i liked about it was when you have the guy hold 
 you and you have to tilt the controller back and forth to push him off you. Great game and only 
 $70.00. i think gamespot should have rated 9.0 out of 10. it has a great multiplayer and the good 
 thing is when you beat you can keep playing it and it never gets boring. so i reccomend this game 
 for anyone who likes call of duty or halo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiefster
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 4, 2006 6:14 pm PT
Review:  If you have a PS3 and don't have Resistance you have no clue what you're missing out on. The game 
 is absolutely amazing and the multiplayer is a virtual dreamland for those who love playing online. 
 The campaign is very interesting and the most of the levels are short and sweet or have cutscenes 
 to keep it all very fresh.
  
  The graphics are beautiful especially the character models and enviroments. Although many have 
 argued that the enviroments look bland from the screen shots but they are truly very nice for a 
 game with such a dark premise.
  
  Sound is good and comes in handy when fighting against Chimera in the Campaign or online. I haven't 
 paid much attention to the music but the voice acting it very good.
  
  The game can be very challenging at points but not frustrating and killing ugy creatures is as 
 fun as its ever been.
  
  The multiplayer is exceptional and provides loads of replay value. Games modes range from 40 player 
 deathmatches to capture the flag to a game type called conversion where you only have two lives: 
 one as a human and one as a Chimera.
  
  I'm not a big fan of shooters but this game is easily recommendable to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Af1rockstar
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 4, 2006 4:34 pm PT
Review:  You are immediately immersed in the exciting stroyline, as Seargent Hale. You are the only survivor 
 in your group after a horrific alien attack. Aftering being captured by the Chimeara, you meet 
 up with a lovely British commander. You are now in a fight to you life and... the world. The weapons 
 are very creative and offer satisfying kills. For example, the auger actually allows you to shoot 
 through walls and it can create a force field right infront of you and your friends. This game 
 uses the Playstation 3 hardware effectively. The graphics are mind-blowing (especially the 3D eyes) . 
 A must have for any Playstation 3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yossi_shelli
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:16 pm PT
Review:  The best FPS I've ever played. much better the call of duty 3, or any other.
  
  22 gig byte of graphics and environment details. the aliens are very smart (espacially on hard) , 
 and thay change tactics and learn the player moves.
  
  I've played it two times, and i still enjoying playing and showing it off to my guests.
  
  
 there is not even one guest who showed it and was not deeply impressed.
  
  i don't know why IGN gave it just 9.1 nor why gamespot gave it only 8.6, relly can't understand 
 it.
  
  its like if it's not xbox super hyped game, then the score is below 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Natebuttsniff
Rating: 9.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 10:22 am PT
Review:  this is an instant classic you can play it, then beat it then play it again and it never gets boring 
 cause of all the weapons you have tyo master and when you get to the harder difficulties it really 
 feels like you are being overwhelmed and you just need to go crazy.... fun fun fun.
  when you first start the game you might feel as if you need a little more like weapons and stuff 
 ut that is quickly resolved and you are firing aeay like a maniac. the game has a decent length 
 just right for a first person shooter. but the end leaves you needing more but that is not at all 
 a bad thing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon62586
Rating: 8.8
Date: Dec 4, 2006 1:23 am PT
Review:  Now I'm not going to say this game is just as good as Halo, but it definitely is the closest that 
 Sony has ever got thus far. Resistance has some of the best arsenal of weaponry to date. Very inventive 
 stuff. From the same developer as Ratchet &amp; Clank, you can feel some similarities. Fast-paced 
 action really brings you into the game. Resistance really has the potential to be a franchise, 
 and I'm hoping they do. As mentioned before, R: FoM has alot of new inventive weapons. From guns 
 that can shoot through walls, around corners and alot more. It's very rare in FPS's that you actually 
 like every gun they have. But in R: FoM, that's exactly the case. Each individual gun does something 
 drastically different, and serves it's purpose accordingly. Online mode is definitely R: FoM's strongest 
 point. 40-man warzone! It's hectics and really gets you into the game. Bullets zipping by your 
 head, bodies flying around, people getting blown up, it's good times..... good times. You can virtually 
 modify anything and everything about a match. The ranking system is actually pretty good as well. 
 The more you play and win the more stuff you can unlock for your online character. Which keeps 
 you coming back for more. With all that being said, Resistance: Fall of Man exc; usively for PS3. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brendruis
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Disclaimer: This is a review of the Single Player portion of Resistance: Fall of Man. HARD DIFFICULTY, 
 but I haven't yet played any multiplayer.
  
  Resistance is the game that everyone wishes will justify their PlayStation 3 purchase... whether 
 you can get one or not. I'll consider myself lucky that I was able to grab one, and I eagerly anticipated 
 playing Resistance, clearly the dominant launch title over all.
  
  This game, above all, is a shooter that pays homage to shooter fans of old. When I remember playing 
 games like Quake, the biggest thing that affected me was the speed that it required to play ie: 
 your reaction with the mouse. It was something that required keen attention to what you're doing 
 if you want to succeed or even survive in virtual terms. The tension of the situation in which 
 you have the skill and initiative to either live on to the next mission or die horribly - this 
 is what spawned the genre... that's what makes it fun.
  
  So, on to Resistance. The single player campaign is very compelling overall... After the initial 
 cutscene, which does a fine job describing the backdrop for the story, you're immediately thrusted 
 into the action. The first sequences of action seem very familiar... locations that could be Stalingrad 
 from Call of Duty 2 or something similar... but it took only minutes for interesting combat situations 
 to show up. Withing the first 2 levels the scenery starts to change as you delve deeper into Chimeran 
 territory. I won't give up the story to where it shall lead you, but I will say that the story 
 is engaging overall... it has quality voice acting and the cutscenes in-engine are quite cool actually.. 
 the end has some emotional moments and if you wait to the end past the credits there is a rather.... humorous... surprise.
 
  
  This game grasps perfectly the frenetic aspect of shooters... the tense moments that make you sit 
 up or 'stand up' from your chair in an effort to slay your way through 200 enemies (literally) 
 to victory and save yourself. On hard difficulty, this game will test your console shooting skills... 
 some moments amount to frustration and being overwhelmed by sheer wave after wave of Chimeran onslaught... 
 but it's exactly this onslaught that gives the game tension... you're fighting an army and you're 
 WAY outnumbered.
  
  In terms of graphics and sound it is excellent... especially in the INSANE firefights near the second 
 half of the game. The partical effects are seriously nothing short of astounding.. Dozens and dozens 
 of enemies... bullets everywhere.. crazy chimera energy rifle  
 shattering.... it's intense the amount of stuff going on here.. It's not that this game has the 
 flashiest graphics, rather it brings you into the experience... it makes you feel like you're there 
 almost in a way only First Person Shooter can. When you get past the first levels and you see the 
 huge battles... the physics... the grenades.. bodies and chairs and crap flying everywhere... it is 
 just solid solid solid. I have been a PC Graphics whore since the Riva TNT2 and I'm QUITE impressed 
 on my TV. In fact, I'm such a PC gamer that being back on my couch is like a new experience in 
 gaming again. [Be sure you have a proper display that supports 720p and HDMI ready..]
  
  Overall... This game is excellent and extemely satisfying.. Remember... wait past the credits...
 
  
  9 / 10 Stars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathtok
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 10:47 pm PT
Review:  While I'm usually tough on first-person shooters I felt that Resistance: Fall of Man was one of 
 those titles that deserved to be played. This is the PS3's flagship launch titles and comes from 
 popular developer Insomniac Games.
  
  Resistance takes you through an alternate history that involves an alien invasion. Because I haven't 
 played the whole game but only a few hours worth I can't really provide with tons of details about 
 the story.
  
  Graphically this game is impressive. Very, very good. In fact the only reason it's not a 10 is 
 because the developers were originally touting it as a 1080p game but finished it in 720p. In 720p 
 though there is no denying this is easily the best eye candy on a console yet. There is just an 
 overall shine the game has; clean and detailed the makes it enjoyable.
  
  The sound production left nothing to be desired. While in a tank you can hear the shells hitting 
 the ground. Explosions are vibrant and enemy sounds at times, scary. I was able to play it in 5.1 
 surround (optical) and hearings noises on the right then left gave a great sense of direction and 
 realism.
  
  Insomniac is hardly reinventing the wheel though. This is an FPS and plays like one. They do offer 
 a large variety of weapons and grenades. Refreshing was the intelligence of the AI. The characters 
 will pop around corners and actually evade you which is a nice challenge.
  
  As much fun as I had playing Resistance I wouldn't buy a console only for this game. However if 
 you're lucky enough to already be a PS3 owner you should definitely pick this up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlMar12345
Rating: 9.7
Date: Dec 2, 2006 5:14 pm PT
Review:  This game is everything grat about first person shooters olled into 1 unique game on the PS3. It 
 has solid new mechanics using the SIXAXIS, good graphics, good physics, OUTSTANDING mutiplayer, 
 unique weaponry, intersting plot, fun enemies, great environments and everything else you could 
 want. The sound effects are good but ther isn't much music.... at all, The graphics are good, but 
 lets face it Gears of War has better graphics, other than that Resistance Fall of Man delivers 
 very solidly as a launch title for the PS3 and makes you wander what th future of PS3 games will 
 be like. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.1
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:05 am PT
Review:  Well this was supposed to an amazing game. I put it in and started to play. These are graphics 
 that the PS3 is capable of? Barely looks any better than a PS2 game. Sure the game is huge but 
 did they put more time in making levels than the graphics? I am pretty disappointed in this release. 
 I would probably get COD3 over this game.
  
  Graphics - 8
  Really nothing impressive. A tad better than the PS2 I guess.
  
  Sound - 9
  The sounds are 
 pretty good. Good effects.
  
  Value - 8
  Ya you will play for long time to beat the game but it really starts to feel repetitive after a 
 while.
  
  Its not a bad game just doesnt live up to the hype it had. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drum9876
Rating: 5.8
Date: Dec 2, 2006 7:15 am PT
Review:  Resistance charaters weapons and enviroments arent thick and richly detailed and ever get close 
 to a monster you'll see a sony trademark crap.
  At a glance some one mythink this game is in fact a good game however on further gameplay you'll 
 find this game is well dosent live up to it's poetintal. However the action is good and with creative 
 guns this game seems mediocre however the other systems and games can and do deliver much much 
 more, I wouldnt recommend this title to another however I will give credit were credit is due and 
 well this game has its High pionts and if you arent looking for the blemishes (which u dont hafe 
 to look hard for) this gameplays smooth and will give you the experence sonys looking for PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spike3oOo
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is Sonys answer to Halo, some might say. While the connections are an obvious 
 one, Insomniac games aren't set to make the next Halo. Instead they are taking the creative aspects 
 of taking the tired and true WWII shooter, shoving a grenade up its ass, and warping our history 
 into a scientific masterpiece. And the results are absolutely fantastic, read on to find out why 
 Resistance Fall of Man is single handedly one of the finest launch titles ever for a console.
 
  
  Graphically the game looks fantastic. With wonderful in game cinematics, to fantastic landscapes, 
 character models, and some of the best creature models ever seen in a game. But look further into 
 the game you will notice that not only does it look fantastic but it also runs at a buttery smooth 
 frame rate with no stutter or drops what so ever.
  
  On top of all this the game features some of the most on screen action, explosions, and enemies 
 in a fps ever! This game really shows off what the PS3 can do, and for a launch title its easily 
 one to show off your brand new shiny PS3.
  
  The Gameplay is just as fantastic and solid as the games superb graphics. The FPS formula is basically 
 what you would get if you took Call of Duty, Doom, and Halo and mixed them in a blender. You've 
 got amazing intelligent AI, mixed with interesting and fun levels. On top of a interesting plot, 
 and some of the best boss battles seen in quite sometime. But what makes the game so amazing is 
 the games arsenal.
  
  The weapons in the game are easily some of the most awesome weapons ever in a fps game. Remember 
 how awesome the Ratchet and Clank guns are. Well picture a more serious toned fps game, with the 
 intelligent weapons of those games. Theres your normal Riot Gun, your Shotgun, and more but what 
 really is interesting is the game has old WWII weapons as well as advanced futuristic Alien weapons. 
 These weapons have some of the most jaw droppingly awesome ways to kill your foes. One weapon is 
 basically your normal high powerful rifle but it can not only shoot through walls, but it can also 
 shoot a invisible shield in front of you that will last for about 15 secs to allow you to reload 
 or avoid enemy fire. Another weapon allows for the bullets to bounce off walls.
  
  There are far more awesome weapons than these but I don't want to spoil them. On top of this the 
 game actually lets you hold as many weapons as you get in the game. No more lame realistic 3 weapons 
 bs that Halo and Call of Duty does. On top of the games fantastic single player game, the game also 
 features a robust and complete multiplayer component (which might I add the PS3 online is free 
 to play!) . The online boosts 40 players across your fav modes, with some very frantic and awesome 
 action throughout. 
  
  On top of that there is split screen multiplayer including co-op!
  
  Overall the game brings so many fantastic aspects to the table, complete with a fantastic single 
 player experience and an amazing and robust multiplayer that is sure to please all action fans. 
 This game is easily worth your $600 purchase and it is easily one of the finest launch games to 
 ever ship with a console! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono69830
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I would have to agree that this title is the best game of the launch though thats not saying much 
 for Sony. This game has beautiful visuals, somewhat smart AI, but lacks in story as well as its 
 not a revolutionary game in any way. Not to mention that its top resolution is 720p, Sony should 
 have put some more work into this title and made it what it could have been...... much better!!!! 
 Though i enjoyed it thus far I would say that I bought the system and this game with much anticipation 
 but was let down by this being the only title worth owning. With nothing more this year to look 
 forward too from sony, this is it...... take it or leave it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 30, 2006 5:52 pm PT
Review:  Wow I have to say I'm very impressed with the way this game looks on the Playstation 3. You're 
 playing as Nathan Hale and you're mankind's last hope to save the world from the Chimera that are 
 slowly killing all of mankind. They set you off to stop then from pentrating further into the world. 
 It's up to you and your army to stop this threat. The graphics look good even thou there is nothing 
 new here to see but the game looks and runs very smooth. The weapons in the game are the main highlight 
 of the games. The weapons are unique and great to use I think these have to be one of the best 
 weapons I've used and seen in a FPS. If you have a playstation3 this is a must have game in your 
 collection. I can't see anybody with a playstation3 not buying this game and with a 40 online multiplayer 
 that runs really really smooth there's no complaining here on my part. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WillKillsM
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 29, 2006 7:17 pm PT
Review:  A great game and must have for the PS3. The game holds strong with a great A. I. and amazing physics. 
 Online is great!!! 40 players!!! All I can say is WOW!!! If they were ever to make a part two I 
 will be getting it. I like how the A. I. progresses in the game as you advance in the game. The 
 many weapons that you can obtain and carry at once is great. The control is perfect in all aspects, 
 plus it is great that it uses the sixaxis when enemy's jump on you and you haft to shake them off. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: javeto
Rating: 8.2
Date: Nov 29, 2006 6:19 pm PT
Review:  R: FOM is a very good game the graphics look good the sound is great, but eventhough all this sometimes 
 I felt like playing COD because of the enviroments. The weapons are very innovative and really 
 shine. The boss battles are a thing on their own they are great and fun.
  overall I think in future instalments it will be the best but as for now is not my favorite shooter. 
 For now I think is not at par with GOW or HALO 1 in the gameplay department. But I definetly enjoy 
 this game, The multiplayer is promicing but havent play it so don't know how good it is 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ihatebrandie
Rating: 8.3
Date: Nov 27, 2006 6:22 pm PT
Review:  The best PLAYSTATION 3 launch game, well, it seems that way. Resistance is an amazing game, with 
 great multiplayer, and a great
  storyline, but is missing many things. The storyline is great, but it is not as immersive as it 
 seems to be; you feel left out in a way. It needs Artificial Intelligence when playing with your 
 buddies at home. But most of all, it needs better graphics. Textures are beautiful, gameplay is 
 really addictive, the A. I are pretty smart as well. This game is a must for your all new PLAYSTATION 
 3 collection, and if you are tired of current day First Person Shooters, this one may get your 
 blood pumping again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ma567
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 27, 2006 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The game is good every think is good but the graphics don't look like next gen is not is like halo, 
 half life and kill zone mix it and you get it well something beater will come out of the mix. The 
 game has good story line grate game play the game is not that hart if you know what you are doing. 
 The game story line is still stupid but fun you know for next gen it looks like the game graphics 
 makers did not try hard maybe they stop making the graphics 1st day who knows that well I can't 
 make a beater graphics like that but still the game is good and that what mater's 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riamo_10
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2006 4:02 pm PT
Review:  I think some people owning XBOX are getting jealous that finally PS3 has a game that can wqual 
 the ranks of games such as Halo. Dont worry i think there will be a sequal to the First Resistance 
 game which will be much better once Playstation 3 has started to realese the better games such 
 a GT HD and MGS4. Right now these game are like scraps compared to the games that will ocme out 
 in a year. Resistance is Pretty its the best game out for PS3 thats why im giving it a 10 there 
 aren't any better games out there for the PS3!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Graphics were some for the best I've seen. The alien I. A. was very good; they even made me mad 
 sometimes. The gameplay was very nice but could have been a little longer than 8-10 hours. If this 
 game was Half-life long, than it would be a god-like single player game. All the weapons were fun 
 to use, none were useless or boring to use. They did a great job in giving you many weapons. The 
 storyline was very interesting. There's was no lag the entire game, no matter how much action on 
 one screen... just unbeliveable. Overall, it shows the beginning of the ps3's power and graphics. 
 Great job. I give it a 9.4..... more than earned it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samurai210
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 10:14 am PT
Review:  Best game out for PS3, a must have for your PS3. Great first person shooter, but did not get the 
 rating it deserved. Try it and love Resistance Fall of Man. Muliplayer is awesome. Hopefully more 
 updates and more things will be available for the game. But I'm sure they will come out. I haven't 
 quite tried online play, because its just not hooked up, also its just not worth hooking it up 
 right now, because a lot of people who got a PS3 sold it already so, not many people playing it 
 online and the web browser is slow so lets wait for the flaws to be corrected. Hopefully we will 
 be seeing a second game for this franchise. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acviper123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 25, 2006 9:06 am PT
Review:  With Gears of War and a year head start, the 360 looks to have an edge on the PS3. Resistance: 
 Fall of Man is exactally the launch title PS3 needed to stay in the game. Resistance offers a great 
 FPS that anyone who owns a PS3 needs to have. This is by far the best launch title Playstation 
 has ever had. The game offers a good campaign, great graphics, a co-op mode, an offline multiplayer, 
 and the best online mode in Sony history. So, ok, it wasnt very hard to do considering Sony hasnt 
 had a very organized online format until now, but still, it has to count for something. The online 
 is great, and can be played with as many as 40 people on a single map. Now for the single player. 
 This is also fabulously done. The weapons are very unique, which prevents the game from going sour 
 after a few hours. Unfortunatly, the games story, while an interesting topic and idea, could have 
 used some work. The characters are not developed, and sometimes you lose interest all together. 
 But, hey, if you wanted story you would watch a movie, or play an MGS game. All in all, Resistance 
 is without question the #1 game on PS3 to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashim91
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 5:54 am PT
Review:  This game was something else and to be honest with you, a game no FPS shooter fan should go without, 
 nor no PS3 owner should at least check out. The visuals are phenomonal. Even on a standard def 
 tv you will appreciate the giant battles, the vast environments and the steady flow of enemies. 
 So much happens on the screen at once that it is the first game to truly feel like a warzone. This 
 game is drawing alot of comparisons to GOW which is a shame. The reason I think it should be stacked 
 against Gears of War is because they are both showcase games. They both are action oriented and 
 also offer a shooter atmosphere with alien foe, but beyond that they are very different.
  Gears offers the third person cover tactic shooter, and it is unbelievably satisfying. However 
 I think Resistance offers a fast paced experience unlike any other you may have been involved in 
 before.
  The multiplayer is truly a shining point and the 40 player battles are fast and chaotic. Again 
 visuals never let up and the frame rate is silky smooth. The alien class seems to have a slight 
 advantage however the humans also have radar to even the playing field.
  Overall if you like shooting games, and in this day who doesnt, then Resistance is a title worthy 
 of checking out if you are a PS3 owner. And if you are not, rent one and play this game, (You will 
 be succumbed into a ps3 owner) or visit a lucky friend and enjoy a real quality title for a launch 
 system. These are launch titles that you rarely see, and will be remembered for years to come. 
 A true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 25, 2006 1:36 am PT
Review:  This game was something else and to be honest with you, a game no FPS shooter fan should go without, 
 nor no PS3 owner should at least check out. The visuals are phenomonal. Even on a standard def 
 tv you will appreciate the giant battles, the vast environments and the steady flow of enemies. 
 So much happens on the screen at once that it is the first game to truly feel like a warzone. This 
 game is drawing alot of comparisons to GOW which is a shame. The reason I think it should be stacked 
 against Gears of War is because they are both showcase games. They both are action oriented and 
 also offer a shooter atmosphere with alien foe, but beyond that they are very different.
  Gears offers the third person cover tactic shooter, and it is unbelievably satisfying. However 
 I think Resistance offers a fast paced experience unlike any other you may have been involved in 
 before.
  The multiplayer is truly a shining point and the 40 player battles are fast and chaotic. Again 
 visuals never let up and the frame rate is silky smooth. The alien class seems to have a slight 
 advantage however the humans also have radar to even the playing field.
  Overall if you like shooting games, and in this day who doesnt, then Resistance is a title worthy 
 of checking out if you are a PS3 owner. And if you are not, rent one and play this game, (You will 
 be succumbed into a ps3 owner) or visit a lucky friend and enjoy a real quality title for a launch 
 system. These are launch titles that you rarely see, and will be remembered for years to come. 
 A true masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaptainKernal
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:40 pm PT
Review:  Resistence Fall Of Man Review by the Kernal
  
  Sound: This game involes everything the sound should. Everything sounds in place and deep. Hooked 
 to a surround sound this is like being IN the war. Even the Chimerin grunts sound evil. 9 out of 
 10
  
  Graphics: This game is shearly amazing to look at. This game handles so much activity its amazing 
 to see all the movement. The cut scenes could use some spice and while some textures are a little 
 wached out and grainy the majority of this game is awsome. 8 out of 10
  
  Gameplay: This game stands out in so many ways but the gameplay is the king of games and that king 
 smiles on Resistence. Truly immersive and post annihilated Britian never played so good. This game 
 by the screenshots looks hard, but when you put you hands on it it actually *feels* easy but its 
 not. You dont realize it but the gmae really is hard. So you may be ounding through brnt after 
 grunt feeling king but you WILL die easily. Pretyy hard enjoyable challenge. The co-op is superb 
 and 40 player online makes this a lasting experience. The ranked matches are personally more fun 
 to me but the majoriy of people like player matches. Go figure. 10 out of 10
  
  Value: With a lenghy story youll play through several times and a top nitch multiplayer as well 
 as slit screen co-op and offline 4 play split screen. What else do I say?
  
  Reviewers Tilt: I love this game... Just a tad of streched out walking between battles but hey I 
 dont really mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazanarkand
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is by far one of the greates FPS i have played. Coming from Halo 1 and 
 2... and way back when for doom and quake, RFoM has entered that realm of greatness. The game starts 
 out following the events happening in the world which eventually leads to our main character, Nathan 
 Hale, an American who comes with the American Force to subdue the Chimera. The gameplay in the 
 game is epic. Controls feel great! And there is a killer story that has a few Ooo i would have 
 never of guessed that! I would have liked to see some more SIXAXIS use in the game, but its still 
 amazing. Now many people might say that the rumble is a huge issue to why they don't want a PS3. 
 To be honest, i totally forgot about it until my friend came over and talked to me about rumble. 
 I was about 7 hours into the single player story. Now turning away from the single player. The 
 multiplayer is insane! Brings me back to the days of Halo 1 where a few friends and I would get 
 a lan going and playing the whole night through. There are a ton of areas to choose from in the 
 multiplayer. And the weapons are so much fun! If you ever get your hands on a PS3 in the coming 
 months do not miss out this once in a lifetime FPS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFluffo
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 24, 2006 7:41 am PT
Review:  First off, this game was great. I have not been so enticed by a FPS in a LONG time. As far as gameplay 
 length goes, playing on medium difficulty for the first time it took me about 12-14 hours, which 
 is pretty good for a FPS. Another note, plz dont directly compare this game to GeoW they are completely 
 different shooting style games.
  
  The Weapons were amazing, although you will commonly use 2-3 primary weapons, switching weapons 
 will make a big difference in the outcome of a battle and save health. Weapons were always different 
 with their own uniqueness to make switching to them fun and it will greatly simplify battle.
  
  The story was decent for a FPS, at least it had a story and provided background information 
 for the enemies. Enemies were interesting and would often use tactics, though not as complex as 
 FEAR's. There was also a good variety of enemies, there was about 9 types of ground units then 
 there was several vehicles.
  
  Playing on medium was a sufficient difficulty for a first time play, the game starts out pretty 
 smooth, but there will be parts where you might die several times before getting through it. About 
 halfway through the game the difficulty ramps up alot, more enemies, more guns, more action. About 
 3/4 through the game it gets even harder.
  
  For many people wondering, the graphics are very good, not as good as GeoW, but still very good. 
 People who read my review on GeoW also might wonder why i gave both games a 9 in graphics, well 
 even though resistance isnt as good looking the framerate is ALWAYS smooth, the framerate issues 
 at all even with 30+ units on screen with vehicles, explosions, shooting, and rag doll physics.
 
  
  Loading time was great, putting the disc in for the first time said that it would load some information 
 to the HDD and will take about 40-50 seconds, more like 30 seconds. In game it will load the ENTIRE 
 level all at once so in the game there are checkpoints but not hiccup in framerate due to loading. 
 Loading the entire map would take about 17-19sec.
  
  Another big question is How is the online play I think its very good but it could be better. Finding 
 an unranked game was very easy and to find a game and get in it took under a minute. Just select 
 unranked game and it takes you to a server list of all the games being played, how many people 
 are in that game, max players, and more. Ranked games will take a little longer to get into as 
 it searches for a games for you. One of the features i wish it had, unless i missed it, is online 
 Co-op, if it had this the online play would be perfect. Also its FREE so you can hop on whenever 
 you want.
  
  Overall this is a GREAT game and if you get a PS3 and you like FPS's this is a must have game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanillagorillap
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 23, 2006 10:33 pm PT
Review:  I brought home my shiny new ps3 on launch morning 11/17 and eagerly opened the box and my copy 
 of Resistance Fall of Man. I started the game up and wow. First impressions of the visuals were 
 better than i thought. You have to see the game in person to appreciate it. The textures were overall 
 better than i expected. Running at a smooth framerate for the enitre game with all the stuff going 
 on is impressive. The game has a great atmosphere and really gives a good sense of scale and the 
 intensity of battle. The weapons in the game are awesome! Especially after you get the bonus ones 
 for completeing the game. At first you use the basic weapon functions, but later on to win you 
 must use a good weapon strategy if your going to make it throuhg th level alive. You will find 
 you combine the functions of the weapons, like using the auger to put up shields and the hailstorm 
 to send out turrets to supress the enemie while you take out far away enemies with a sniper. These 
 weapons all add up for awesome gameplay. The story is good but it could have been presented better 
 . The story is told through various still images with narration and in engine cutscenes. While 
 teh single player is awesome multiplayer is no slouch and easily matchs the fun experieced in single 
 player. 40 players is awesome online and runs beatifully. Overall not only the best ps3 game out 
 it is one of the best shooters i ahve played in a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bgrotha
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 23, 2006 5:27 pm PT
Review:  I don't have my hands on a PS3 just yet. INSTEAD! I went to a LAN center that had one, with Resistance, 
 so I paid up for hours and hours to play this game all the way through, and bet your ass I got 
 my money's worth. The singleplayer campaign is astounding. Not too long, but quite compact. Each 
 level is explosively eventful and containing of high definition combat. The weapon selection becomes 
 vast and large very quickly. The story is a tad creative, but a bit like most war stories of any 
 sort, including alien race vs. human race. The main enemy in the game is the Chimera which are 
 a highly evolved species that think they're the only ones fit for taking the world. The variety 
 of different Chimeran enemies is pretty decent, but still I'm often left with the bland thought 
 that they are all the same race. No matter how big or small they get. But that doesn't affect me 
 too much. The game is still a blast. The amount of scripted/ eventful content in the game is just 
 amazing. One moment you're walking down a hallway, the next a huge capsule come flying through 
 the wall right in front of you. The level of detail in display and visuals is good, but not what 
 it could be. Seeing games like Gears of War on a less capable system (The 360) causes a bit of 
 anguish considering the PS3 can handle more and isn't showing more. But it is Insomniac's first 
 serious M-rated FPS game in a while. It still utilizes an okay deal of power from the PS3. Multiplayer 
 battle is a blast. The maps are kind of compact, but that's just what we're looking for in a game 
 like Resistance. Games like Quake III Arena were the only few to make very small maps okay for 
 lots and lots of players. Now Resistance: Fall of Man does it with a whole new style. Giving you 
 access to all the weapons, and choosing to play for the Chimera team which comes with special abilities 
 unlike the human team. But they are also weaker. All of the levels and maps in the game look fantastic. 
 From a perfect setting for a WWII game, to a perfect setting for a sci-fi/ horror game. Physics 
 are almost up to PAR with the Source Engine physics. Environments can get destructible to a great 
 amount in the single player campaign. Sound and voice acting is overall terriffic. The Chimera 
 soldiers actually make intimidating grunts here and there. The guns all sound great. You can't 
 go wrong with Resistance: Fall of Man, a nearly perfect launch title for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ezplayer13
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 23, 2006 12:11 pm PT
Review:  gameplay: The game play fo resistance is fairly simple to most common fps so for you who play shooters 
 alot won't be lost the reload action is fast and efficent , though the beginning of the game you'll 
 find your selft run and gun there is a sense of tactics in the game in the usage of cover and gun 
 choice. the sixaxis offer little to this game but quite enjoyable to the fact you may find your 
 self shaking off chimera with it , in a sudden surpise. weapons special effects find there own 
 place with each one with a unique one of its own the game play is quite fabulous.
  
  graphics: coming form a person using SD tv . me and even my parents found our selfs caught up in 
 the greatness of it beauty the graphics are impressive even on a SD comparing to a x360 on an HD 
 glass shatter will never be the same in the realness of it texture and quailty have done well for 
 this game
  
  sound: though the least mentioned in a game it has found its place here in resistance with chimeran 
 roars warning you of what may come may sometimes freak you out , or alert you i sometimes found 
 myself thinking i was in a movie with its sound of suspense and horror
  
  value: this game is a must to a ps3 player it uniqueness of a call of duty and doom game combination 
 makes it one of a kind and enjoyable in all aspects
  
  Reiewers tilt: all in all this game is a fabulous game and deserve to be in range of a 9 , the premise 
 in enjoyable and enticeing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 22, 2006 7:48 pm PT
Review:  OVR SCORE: 94 Resistance: Fall of Man takes place in 1951, before WWII happened. The world is invaded 
 by aliens so WWII could not of have ever happened, because everyone would fighting the aliens. 
 You play as Nathan Hale, an American soldier sent to Britain to help the Resistance. Tha game has 
 30 Levels and about 15 hrs. of gameplay. It is exclusive to the PS3. GRAPHICS: 92 The graphics 
 are a high point in this game, but to have a HDTV to get the most out of them. The lighting and 
 textures of the world surrounding you are just so realistic. While their is not much water in the 
 game, when you see it, prepare to be amazed at how fluidly it looks. SOUND: 100 I just had to give 
 the sound in this game a 100. Everyone around you is yelling and cursing, you can hear it all prefectly, 
 if you play this game, you may hear things such as Your going to get your f***ing head blown off! 
 or Pass me a magazine! All the sounds are just way too realistic. GAMEPLAY: 95 The shooting mechanics 
 are really good in this game. Their are about 9 weapons to choose from, ranging from your ordinary 
 run-of-the-mill shotgun, to a gas powered L112-2 Dragon. Their are 30 levels, so this game should 
 occupy you for a while. The online function of this game is great, but can easily be changed by 
 skilled modders. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fire_Safety
Rating: 8.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:46 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up my PS3 on the 17th, the only game I bought along with it was Resistance: Fall 
 of Man. None of the games really interested me, and the others that did were playable on the 360 
 and gave me sweet, sweet achievement points to rack up. R: FoM was the only game that interested 
 me, and I probably would have picked it up even if the game was a total dog. Thankfully its not, 
 but if you're looking for a reason to justify picking up a PS3 right now, this game isn't it.
 
  
  Resistance is a fairly standard World War 2-ish FPS that has a bit of a twist: World War 2 never 
 happened. Instead, beings called the Chimera started bum rushing Russia and soon took over most 
 of Asia and Europe. You play as Nathan Hale, one of the few American soldiers sent to go assist 
 the remaining British forces to stop the onslaught of the chimera. Along the way, you get infected 
 with the 'chimerian disease', which serves as a weak plot device to explain why in the world your 
 health regenerates after you get hit. In any case, the story does a decent job at getting you into 
 the game and actually trying to go through the many levels the game has to offer, which came around 
 to about 15-16 hours in total my first run through. Though strangely, while you're playing in the 
 co-op mode, the game never bothers to explain how your friend even exists. The enemy AI in the 
 game is fairly competent, which creates some fun and intense battles.
  To wage this one to two man war, you're given a bevy of weaponry that range from standard fare 
 to cool to off the wall. You get your standard shotgun, assault rifle, sniper rifle, and rocket 
 launcher (its FPS law to have these, or a variant of such, in your game) . But then you get handed 
 the really cool chimeran weaponry such as the Bullseye, which lets you tag a target and home all 
 your gunshots to that target. Then you get a cool but pretty useless weapon called the Hailstorm 
 that fires huge amounts of glass shards that bounce off walls at your enemies, and a gun called 
 the Augur which not only shoots through most obstacles but also gets more powerful as it passes 
 through more walls and such. There's also an organic mine layer thats useful to a small point, 
 but will only be used to stop the smallest of enemies to save ammo for the bigger threats. All 
 weapons have an alt-fire which mostly increases the use of each gun, like the sniper rifle that 
 has an awesome time slow ability that makes the weapon fifty times more useful. The weapons are 
 the star of the show and its a real blast to use most of them.
  
  You'll need all the help you can get, because the Chimera are smart and numerous. The AI for the 
 hybrids are done very well, they take cover and duck in and out of it to take potshots at you. 
 Once you run into ones equipped with augurs they'll even sit behind cover and just nail you with 
 unstoppable bullets. Though sometimes the AI will bug out and just stand there to get shot, or 
 refuse to jump away from the explosion of a grenade. Resistance will throw them at you a couple 
 at a time, and sometimes upwards to 10-15 at a time, making for some exciting gun battles. Hybrids 
 aren't the only Chimeras in town, the variety of foes range from the small and speedy rollers, 
 to ones that are tall and lanky, to ones that have a huge fireball launcher for a hand. But for 
 the most part you'll be gunning down hybrids equipped with bulleyes.
  
  Vehicles are also included in this game, and you'll get to pilot both human and chimeran vehicles. 
 The jeep is quite fun to drive but drives fairly unrealistic and can sometimes go crazy when you 
 drive over large rocks. The tank handles poorly, but the large cannon more than makes up for the 
 slow and sometimes painful driving experience. The chimeran spider walkers are quite fun to drive, 
 though for some reason they're the only vehicles in the game that have their own health bar, which 
 makes their sequences the toughest since even bullseye bullets and augur rounds can chip away at 
 your armor. The Playstation 3 doesn't come equipped with a achievement system like the Xbox 360 
 does, which means the developers have to take matters into their own hands if they want to give 
 gamers the same rewards. During the course of the game, if you manage to complete certain achievements 
 like gathering intel documents or getting five head shots with the sniper rifle, you'll get points 
 which all add up to unlock in-game content which ranges from concept art to multiplayer skins. 
 This gives the game an added amount of replayability, but the game refuses to tell you how to get 
 them, so unless you like to figure them out on your own its more than likely you won't go back 
 into a level and try to find every achievement.
  
  You can also play through the entire campaign with a friend, who takes up the role of a nameless 
 soldier who also just happens to survive everything that's thrown at Hale. However Co-op is only 
 playable via split-screen and offers no choice to play online with another person, which in this 
 age of gaming, is not a very good idea to exclude. You can go online and play with up to 40 players 
 online in bouts of team deathmatch, regular death match, conversion, meltdown, and breach. Though 
 I've only played about an hour or so of the online modes, what I have experienced was a mainly 
 lag free and frantic gameplay. The only downside is that the PS3 itself doesn't come with any kind 
 of mic to talk to others with, so I felt a little lonely while blowing away my fellow gamers with 
 a rocket launcher. What's really interesting is that both sides (humans and chimerans) have different 
 characteristics. The humans get a motion sensor and the ability to sprint, while the chimerans 
 get a 'rage' mode that amps their damage, speed, and gives them the ability to see through walls. 
 This ability is balanced by the fact that you can overheat if you have this on for long (about 
 9-10 seconds or so) and you begin taking damage. This is a very interesting idea and since its 
 mainly well balanced, would be a good idea for other games to take into account.
  
  The graphics of Resistance are pretty good but not great. The game looks pretty and is able to 
 throw lots of enemies and effects at you without so much of a dip in its framerate, though some 
 of the textures look a little faded or muddy. Lights, effects, and the environments all look really 
 good, but by the end of the game I've had my fill of bombed out cities and strange labs. The animations 
 for the enemies and allies are all well done. In co-op though, the graphics take a pretty sizable 
 hit in favor of keeping things going fast. This wouldn't be too bad if other games hadn't already 
 been released with split screen co-op, and still look just as good as the single player. The sound 
 is very good, most guns shoot with their own loud and satisfying sounds and blasts, and the voice 
 acting is done decently. Chimera crawlers screech with 'aw crap' inducing gasps, and the music 
 is done well, but is sometimes unnoticeable while you're in the thick of battle. If you were to 
 walk up to me and ask Is this game worth getting a Playstation 3 for? I would have to simply say 
 no, it isn't. However, if you pick up a PS3 sometime and wonder what you should buy for it, this 
 game should be near the top of your list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkNessBear
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 22, 2006 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man has everything needed to be a perfect game in terms of shooters, but is 
 left hypeless due to the amount of games out and the heavy competition. Gameplay: 9 The gameplay 
 is fast, furious and down right intense. You'll be surprised when an enemy Chimera flanks you from 
 behind and you'll only have enough time to scream, Oh crap! . The AI is ferocious and you'll need 
 to take the time to plan out your attack or you'll be left without a chance of surviving.
  
  Graphics: 9
  The graphics are AAA work, but its left with a low-rating due in part to Gears 
 of War releasing ahead of time. If it wasnt for that game spoiling everyone it would be held much 
 higher graphically then it is. And it is most definitely creative the way they integrated the alien 
 architecture with European design.
  
  Sound: 10
  Everything in this world makes a sound. From a trash can making individual sounds when it rolls, 
 to running into a cart, to smacking some pool balls around. This game's sound is highly underrated. 
 It provides great voice acting, extensive dialogue, great gun sounds and over all a great sounding 
 experience.
  
  Value: 10
  They didnt hold back when packing in as much goodies as possible. From a point system derived from 
 something out of Xbox 360's achievements, to its amazing 40 man multiplayer and to its lengthy 
 single player, it provides a full experience worth spending your money over. It has a huge array 
 of different weapons that will make you light up with excitement and has some of the most intense 
 boss battles seen in an FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: P_BaBy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 22, 2006 8:28 am PT
Review:  May not have the GoW graphics but it doesn't need them this is an extremely fun game to play. you 
 won't know when to put it down. there is an truely great sense of chaos but not i a bad way. u 
 will be getin shot at from so many place u won't know what hit u and thats what i love about this 
 game. the battles they are just so huge. i love them. so if you were lucky enough to get your hands 
 on a ps3 you have to go get this game. it is an diffinite must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashmodai69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2006 9:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a really great game, too bad its really the only great game for the PS3 at launch time, 
 the best part is the multiplayer this is going to keep the game fresh and exciting for a long time. 
 The single player is very fun and challenging. The weapon assortment is what makes it shine, leave 
 it to the makers of ratchet and clank to come up with some great guns! The graphics are great, 
 not top notch but i think they did a super job. If you only get one game for the Playstation 3 
 this year it better be Resistance Fall of Man!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pel-Nel
Rating: 8.4
Date: Nov 21, 2006 8:25 pm PT
Review:  First off, my friend owns a ps3 and i do not. What i actually have is a 360 and because of that 
 i of course own X. Id also like to say that biased fanboy reviews piss me off, rarely should a 
 game be rated 10. Other than that, this is my honest opinion. Resistance is a great game, you would 
 not be wrong to give it a shot. It has AMAZING graphics, everything is well rendered and in this 
 one map i couldent stop looking at how cool a simple pool table looked. The graphics are amazing 
 but the gameplay is something that should feel very familiar to anyone playing the game. Its your 
 standard shoot em up with a helluva face-lift. Player run really damn fast and the ps3 cranks out 
 a blistering framerate. While i was playing this the gameplay reminded me of timesplitters 2 but 
 less goofy.
  
  ehh, im tired of writing i hope this was helpfull. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H4lo4Lif3
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man has everything that a flagship launch title should. It looks great and 
 runs well, it has a compelling single-player campaign and its multiplayer aspect is not only fantastic 
 fun but it shows off the PlayStation 3's online capabilities. This is the PlayStation 3's showpiece 
 game through and through, and we're thrilled to get something this complete and expansive at launch.
 
  
  Insomniac is well known for its weapon and character design, and the developer doesn't disappoint 
 with Resistance. The creatures that come at you through the course of the game not only get bigger 
 and stronger, but move, act and think differently, providing for ever-changing encounters. The 
 weapons are wildly unique, each offering multiple modes of fire that challenges the player to come 
 up with different strategies and think on their toes.
  
  While the single-player game is good, multiplayer is likely to be what's most fondly remember about 
 Resistance in years to come. To say it's big would be an understatement. With 40 player support, 
 more than a half-dozen game types, the ability to play as humans or Chimera... I could go on and 
 on. The point is that it's fun as hell and should keep us all glued to our systems for weeks if 
 not months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 281538960
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 11:27 am PT
Review:  Wow. You people who just give the game a bad score without playing the game are pathetic. I picked 
 up a Japanese PS3, and Resistance with it. All you people comparing it to Gears are idiots, and 
 probably haven't played the game. Same to the people who are just giving the game a 0.0... Screw 
 off and play the game.
  
  After I've been playing the game extensively, I'll give you an honest, truthful review.
  
  
 Gameplay - The gameplay is superb. What make the game play so amazing is the weapons. Each weapon 
 is unique, and is required for certain situations. You'll experience about half way through the 
 game that the variety and uniqueness of the weapons is very much required and incredibly useful. 
 Each weapon provides a new experence, and that is something that lends itself well to establishing 
 a name for itself in this genre. Thanks to the unique weapons, the game really has a unique feel 
 everytime you play it.
  
  Issues about the AI can be seen here, but that happens with every game. Beside a few odd stand 
 stills here and there, the AI is actually pretty good. They do take cover when needed, and rush 
 when needed. They melee if you get within range, and step away if attempt to rush and melee them. 
 They do adapt to your play; so if you are standing in one spot and just staying still, they will 
 flank you, or do the same, giving the game a real life feeling. It pays to keep moving in the game.
 
  
  It very much is a run and gun shooter, although that is something Insomniac meant to do. Vehicles 
 are in the game, and they are fun... while they last. Vehicular moments don't last all that long, 
 but when you do get them, it is extremely fun, just wish there was more of it. Pacing is a little 
 odd, but you'll experience more of the games atmosphere better this way... Going from a huge fight 
 to walking in a creeping corridor experiencing the ever changing world for a little bit is cool. 
 Another cool thing is hero moments, which you rarely notice at all. You can save a guy, or let 
 a guy die if you want. And it helps and is quite cool to play it looking for those... In all, the 
 weapons are enough reason to play this game, and they; ll keep you coming back for more.
  
  Graphics - Very underrated. The game isn't going to blow you away, but it does look fantastic, 
 and better than most next gen games on any console. Lighting is extremely good, and physics add 
 a good omph to the games visuals. Detail on the enemies is incredible... as is the animation. Atmosphere 
 is wonderful and very freaky.
  
  Another amazing aspect to graphics is the particle effects. Smoke looks like smoke, and just looks 
 fantastic. Grenades look good when going off, and really pack a punch. Gun bursts look great and 
 really look real for that type of weapon. And perhaps the most impressive thing about the graphics, 
 is the absolutely amazing draw distance. Perhaps being some of the best in gaming, it really gives 
 the game a sense of scale, and believability. The world feels huge, and real, and that is extremely 
 important. Had this game not had the draw distance and atmosphere is does, it just wouldn't be 
 the same game... Absurb...
  
  Textures aren't the most detailed, but they get the job done, and when not focusing in on them, 
 look fantastic. All this comes together in one of the most smooth experiences in the history of 
 gaming. No matter what happens in the game, the framerate sticks and 30FPS. Hundreds of bullets, 
 and explosions, dozens of Chimera and humans, with physics and voice acting doing there thing, 
 with tons of AI calculation and draw distance effect, the game is absurdly smooth, and never drops 
 a hitch.
  
  Sound - Perhaps one of the best audio experiences in gaming. Voice is superb, and really lend a 
 sense of humanity, and humility to them. Sound effects like explosions and gun shots sound real, 
 and viseral. Each have a unique property to them that really gives the game a great feeling. Tons 
 of screaming and yelling in the game, to radio chatter all when fighting, coupled with sounds effect 
 left and right, gives for an amazing audio experience, and a perfect example of the next generation 
 of sound. Despit what people say, sound is extremely important in a game... Music is good when 
 heard, but there isn't a lot of it sadly.
  
  Multiplayer - Now the meat and potatoes of the game. I'll say it right now... one of the best multiplayer 
 experiences in gaming. 40-man battles in large, epic maps are insanely fun, and do provide an ample 
 oppertunity for team play, which is required in a lot of the modes, like team deathmatch, and especially 
 Breach and Meltdown, two of the coolest modes. I'm sure a lot of you know about the modes, so I 
 won't explain them here, but they are fantastic. As you play ranked matches, you level up, and 
 can unlock different things for your character, along with a ton of stats to look at, and I mean 
 a ton... Anything you can think of, its probably there.
  
  You also get offline multiplayer, with up to four people splitscreen, and two player co-op, which 
 is fantastic. The game actually gets harder with another player, so that is always welcome, and 
 a great thing. Offline, its the same as online, but with four people.
  
  Matchmaking is awesome, and really does a good job of matching you up with approriate people. One 
 of the best aspects to multiplayer, is that is NEVER LAGS AT ALL... EVER! I've never once in my 
 entire time playing online in 40 person matches, or smaller, seen a hitch in the framerate or lag. 
 Amazing. I could go on and on about multiplayer, but I think you get the idea... ITS ONE OF THE 
 BEST, and it SHOULD NOT BE MISSED... PERIOD! Its sad this wasn't given the attention is deserves. 
 Far better than most online experiences of any console, and yes, that game...
  
  Story - This game has a great story. You are Sgt. Nathan Hale, or the US Rangers. You are sent 
 in to stop the Chimera, in a time where WWII never happened, but your squad is wiped out, and killed. 
 You, however, are not. The Chimera, and race on unknown orgin has emerged from Russia, laying waste 
 to absolutely everything in its path. After you go missing, its up to you to show yourself again, 
 and retake Great Britian, and drive the Chimera back. Good luck.
  
  That is the story, and thats just the small bit of it. Its a great story, and breath of fresh air 
 in the FPS genre. If you want even more story, head to Insomniacs Resistance website, and you'll 
 get a ton of great info and backstory. Wonderful job on a great story Insomniac. Not like your 
 average alien shooter...
  
  Value - After you beat the game, you unlock some new weapons, and even some of the great Insomniac 
 unlockables and humour, which is always a bonus. Multiplayer can last forever, and is extremely 
 fun and lasting. Single player is worth a replay on hard mode, for a severe challenge. Amazing 
 game, and yes, its a killer app... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Realgamerzz
Rating: 7.6
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:05 am PT
Review:  Gameplay - 7/10
  The game plays like any other standard FPS title, which is good. The controls are smooth, and it's 
 easy to get used to them. The weapons are fun to use, and the vehicle parts are also pretty fun.
 
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  The game looks very nice in every aspect.. The weapons, enemies, vehicles, etc. But there's nothing 
 revolutionary about the graphics.
  
  Sound - 7/10
  There's not much to say about the sound, the voice acting is done well, and same goes for the weapons.
 
  
  Value - 8/10
  The game has a fun, interesting, and lengthy campaign that's worth playing, and the multiplayer 
 is also lots of fun to play.
  
  Tilt - 8/10
  Resistance: Fall of Man is a fun FPS, and a good launch-title for the PS3. But it's absolutely 
 not The Halo Killer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1337KoRnFan
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 21, 2006 7:01 am PT
Review:  This was my first Playstation 3 game to buy and I love the game and everything about it. I couldn't 
 believe how much fun the online was :D. The storyline was superb their was nothing bad about that 
 game at all. I am really looking afford to R: FOM 2 . Also If you get a playstation 3 get Resistance 
 Fall Of Man. Here are reasons why
  1. Storyline good as half life 2
  2. The online game play is real fun
  3. Its the best ps3 game for launch.
  
  So who ever 
 wants a playstation 3 get resistance fall of man. You will not regret it at all :D and also any 
 one who has a playstation 3 my name is SomeRandomGuy :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinchimocote
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is a must have title for any 1st person shooter fan. But before I get 
 into the game let me just get something out of the way. Any one comparing this game to Gears of 
 War is freaking retarded. You cannot compare a 3rd person shooter with a 1st person shooter game. 
 Also the Xbox 360 has been out for a 1 year now so graphics will be better for now. Also you might 
 have heard that some people are not impressed with the PS3. What did they expect? For the PS3 
 to make them lunch, clean their dishes?
  Resistance: Fall of Man looks a little better than Perfect Dark Zero and sound hell of a lot better 
 too. The A. I is pretty good too; its not stupid like enemies from Perfect: Dark Zero and Far Cry. 
 The only this that I notice that looked kind of weird was the fire it just kind of looks weird 
 but overall the game play and graphics are great and this game is worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stukes
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 20, 2006 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Granted, I have only played less than five hours of the game, but Resistance: Fall of Man is a 
 great shooter for the ps3. The controls are hard to get use to, if you are into other systems, 
 like Xbox, because of the two buttons on the top of the controller. If not, then you are good to 
 go. The graphics on this game are on par with games like Gears of War or Call of Duty 3. The game 
 play is good. Even though the controls are difficult at first, the endless amount of enemies is 
 amazing, which forces you to get the controls down. The AI is excellent. Remember, excellent AI 
 + many o enemies = fun. If you are not playing on easy, you will die (unless you are a noob) . The 
 weapons are very creative. Who would have thought of a gun that makes it own shield? Not me. So 
 far this is the only PS3 game worth owning, in my opinion, since most of the other ones either 
 suck or come out on the 360 as well. If you do buy one though, Resistance is a must-have-no-matter-what 
 kind of game, since its the only good game for the PS3 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microdoted
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 1:22 pm PT
Review:  purchased my ps3, as well as a stack of games (just about all of them) but resistance has been 
 conquering all my available playtime so far. an outstanding game that just gets it right. there 
 is actually a story to the game (which a lot are weak on, or even non-existant) , but the weapons 
 and gameplay make it. from bullets that follow a target around corners, to ricochet shots, to guns 
 that literally shoot through walls... there is nothing missing. even more impressive, is its online 
 play. 40 player deathmatches are what was missing all along. playing online before just got boring... 
 but throwing that many people onto a map, its just plain fun. the only thing i can say about it 
 negatively, are the graphics. they are great, but i guess i wanted more. however, its a first game 
 on a brand new platform, and its already on par with the competition... so its still a hell of 
 a title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante565
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 19, 2006 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok now after being able to play this game online for a few hours the multi player capability is 
 truly a sight to behold and be amazed by. The game looks fantastic even on multi player no matter 
 how many others players are involved in the game it never seems to slowdown or lose connection. 
 I am very impressed Sony did such a good job with its first set of online games for the new system. 
 Playing through the main game as well is a very good experience. The enemy A. I. is very quick to 
 react in some situations and is very deadly on the hard mode of the game. The sound itself creates 
 a nice ambiance that makes the game very dark and creepy in some areas of the game making it feel 
 slightly like survival horror in some of the dark lightless areas. I will admit the game has its 
 problems such as a few minor graphic glitches, some A. I. probelms and character models getting 
 stuck, but other than that a great solid launch title all will enjoy. I recommend it to anyone 
 who purchased the PS3. Have fun with it and happy gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 80style
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 1:26 am PT
Review:  if this game was not talked about from 2 years ago, and said to be the ps3 game to get at launch. 
 it would be almost a perfect 10. but hype is not ment to be lived up to. so here goes. great game, 
 lots of playing time, about 10-11 hours. i played this game all the way through in the co op mode 
 with my friend. so rediculously fun. single player is good too, the online sucks for now. but when 
 more people start playing online, it will pick up. for the lack of launch titles out there, this 
 is a great one
  Final Thoughts: If you have a ps3, get resistance 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex537
Rating: 7.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Fall of Man follows an alternate history where the world did not experience World War II, the Great 
 Depression, or the rise of Communism in Russia. A relative era of peace ensues following the Great 
 War, ending with the revelation of a ruthless and destructive race dubbed the Chimera. In 1951, 
 the year in which the game takes place, England finds itself under invasion. Little is known about 
 the Chimera and their origins remain unclear. Both Asia and Europe appear to have already fallen 
 to the Chimera in short order by this time.
  
  The game follows the story of U. S. Army Ranger Sgt. Nathan Hale. Hale's US Ranger Unit lands in 
 Britain to aid in fending off the Chimera only to be infected with a Chimeran virus and have everyone 
 fall into a coma shortly thereafter. Hale appears to be spared as he is the only one that manages 
 to awaken and becomes aware of the Chimeran plot due to the infection inside of him. [1] As a result, 
 he becomes the key figure in a desperate operation that is launched to try and halt the invasion. 
 The next three days are chronicled in the game as the U. S. and British forces band together in 
 a last-ditch effort to save what is left 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0rin
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 11:39 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man DEFINATELY lives up to the hype. The main single-player storyline is at 
 least a good 12 hours of play, and the story is both horrifying, and captivating at the sametime. 
 The game runs at a flawless framerate. I haven't finished the story mode yet, but it has already 
 got me interested in what happens. And the Guns are amazing! The controls took a few minutes for 
 me to get used to, and i'm still definately no pro, but I don't play many console FPS (this is 
 my first one with dual analogs)
  
  However, the Online is a whole new beast. BEYOND WORDS. I played for a good 7-8 hours lastnight 
 online, and not ONCE did I experience a frame skip, or any lag whatsoever. My only bone to pick 
 with Resistance online is the voice coms. Sometimes people start cutting out and their voice com 
 starts lagging really bad. And after a game or two, you're lucky if your mic works at all. However, 
 I have a USB Mic, and I found when you unplug/replug the headset it, it usually fixes it, so its 
 not that big of deal, but a minor inconvenience.
  
  While I admit there are a few semingly cut-corners in the single player game, and the levels aren't 
 very long, It is still a great game. Also, This game is no cakewalk. I started the game on Easy 
 mode, and I die a good handful of times every level. This could be because I am not very good at 
 the game (most likely) but I'm pretty sure the 7-8 (or more) chimera on the screen at the same 
 time contribute to the cause. It is by no means an easy breeze-through game. It implies strategy, 
 flanking, and encourages usage of all your weapons, and grenades. A good plus is there are usually 
 plenty of health pick-ups scattered through the levels (at least on easy mode) .
  
  All in all, the free, lagless online is what makes this game the phenomenal hit that it is. The 
 encouraging of grouping up and communication, the strategies involved in the game modes, and the 
 level layouts, packed with rubble, debris, and other items to take cover behind. Not to mention 
 the insane amount of level customization, and the amount of awards/medals you can get which raise 
 your rank (even in unranked games) , and unlock more outfits/accessories to better differentiate 
 your character from the rest. All this togeher makes for a lasting online gamplay, and almost infinite 
 replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkod_x
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 17, 2006 11:41 pm PT
Review:  The highly anticipated PS3 launch game is finally here and I must say. It WOWED me. Cool weapons, 
 level design especially, sound, enemies, and everything going on in the background thanks to Blu-Ray 
 and the Cell Processor. Anyone who wants to play a cool game that's just been launched for the 
 PS3 and owns one. I definately recommend picking this game up. Multiplayer is also cool. Get to 
 play as a Chimera :) . I swear this game is so fun that you'll be stuck playing it forever till 
 you drop. Again, this game should not be missed out because, Resistance: Fall of Man is irresistable 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firestorm91
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:50 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man is an action game that is set in the 20th century. There are these monstrous 
 creatures (the Chimera) that you will have to face and it isn't a walk in the park, it's very challenging, 
 but not extremely hard. Asia has been overrun and Europe is having its last stand for the fight 
 against the Chimera. You will play as Nathan Hale, who is an American Soldier. You are sent to 
 Europe's United Kingdom to fight for what's left of it; you will helping out the British army defend 
 the United Kingdom. There are plenty of destruction-filled weapons that you will use against the 
 Chimera, but like I've said, it's challenging at parts.
  
  The gameplay is something like you would expect from a first-person shooter. I don't like how the 
 gun dosen't shake around that much when you shoot it, but it just makes shooting the enemy a lot 
 easier. There are also drivable vehicles in the game, and I think that was a really cool addition 
 because it increases the games entertainment level, and it's not what most people would expect. 
 The controls are very easy, and they are very easy to get used to. Killing enemies are good, but 
 I like the animations for the battle sequences that you have with them. You will end up shooting 
 the environment most/some of the time and usually the environment will be damaged. That was one 
 thing that really caught my attention because I haven't played that many games where you can destroy 
 the environment during a battle. I kind of dislike the grenades, but they're there for you when 
 you need them. There are easy and tough enemies, their skills will range from simple to hard. In 
 the end, the gameplay is terrific in anyway you can think of it.
  
  Graphics: The graphics are spectacular, the gun models are fantastic, the character models are 
 well done, and the level designs are just brilliant. My favourite part about the graphics would 
 be the destructive environment. I'm happy that there is a fair amount of blood in this game too. 
 I can't really say much more about the graphics, they are very, very good. It shows what the Playstation 
 3 can do with it's graphic processors. I think that the sound is very well done, everything has 
 been put in place. The voice acting is nice, the character's voices sound great. The enemies sound 
 like they should, alien-like creature sounds, people getting torn up, gunshots. It all sounds superb, 
 but it's near perfect. The online in the game is a good addition as well as the 40 player support. 
 Fighting online is excellent if you're not in the mode to fight against computers, well there's 
 always the online mode, or multiplayer with your friend (s) .
  
  Overall, Resistance: Fall of Man is a perfect game to release on launch day for the Playstation 
 3. It includes online mode, 2-player mode, a well done campaign, good videos, intense gameplay, 
 and there is much more. There is very little to pick at with this game, and that's what makes it 
 a superb game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwcs15
Rating: 9.3
Date: Nov 17, 2006 10:49 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man is a SciFi Action Shooter that has combined all of the good things in games 
 of this genre and added something else to it as well. As expected, coming from the makers of R 
 and C, the game has a awesome mix of guns and other weapons, as well as some of the best graphics 
 I personally have ever seen on any console. But one of the most astonishing things about the this 
 game is the complexity of the A. I. The chimera (bad guys) can take more shots than the average 
 human, and on top of that duck and cover from your fire and shoot back at you quite effectively, 
 making them one of the most impressive enemies in a game to date. However there are some bad things 
 to the game; it does start to get a little repeditive in the game but after a while you will get 
 to another good part, and the game could have have a little bit of more originality, it seemed 
 to be a mix between MOH and Halo with a few extra goodies. In all the good beats the bad making 
 this a must get for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 9.7
Date: Nov 19, 2006 12:55 am PT
Review:  I my self was itching to get my hands on this game, i was wondering if it was going to live up 
 to my expectations and boy did it do that. graphic were great sound was great and game-play was 
 great. The campaign is great fun because the Ai keeps it fresh. This the game for the fans of the 
 first person shooter genre.
  
  The campaign has a lot of replay value, another feature is the unlock value it adds more reason 
 to keep on playing. The co-op mode has been great fun to use because unlike most games it adds 
 more enimies. I am happy with the result of resistance fall of man but all i would like to see 
 next time (if there is going to be a next time) is more of a back story to the carachter and chimera. 
 I also would like to see more vehicle missions and more levels. One of the many great thing about 
 this game was the guns. When i was playing this it gave me the feeling i was playing a ratchet 
 and clank game (a more violent version of ratchet and clank) . My favourite weapon up o date is 
 the Auger, it is so use full because every time it goes through a wall it gains momentum and continues 
 on. Another feature of the Auger is the ability to shoot a shield that will protect you from everything 
 (except the Auger) for a limited amount of time.
  
  A great thing to see was the frame rate did not drop but keep going smooth even when there was 
 like and army of chimera. The enviroment detail was great i loved the chimera guns and buildings, 
 the only dissapointment was the lack of fully destructable enviroments. The detail in the sound 
 for the enviroment was so imersive like when you are playing the multiplayer in the jungle you 
 can hear the birds chirping in the trees.
  
  Sound has a great tone and matches the story and keeps up with what you are doing through out the 
 game.
  
  I was so overjoyed playing the multiplayer, taking on people around the globe. The multi player 
 is just right, map size is perfect amount of people is more than perfect. I was pretty pleased 
 the with amount of maps i was just hoping for more destructable enviroments. That was just my point 
 of view if you dont believe me go borrow a copy of resistance fall of man.
  
  Any way for a quick sum up it is a great opening game for the PS3 and will be still quite a good 
 game for a long time. So that's a big up to the Ubisoft team. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abu123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2006 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is trully an AAA game. Playstation has already gotten a great game at launch. It takes 
 the best of every shooting game like Halo and etc and combine it together to make the best game 
 ever. Also what a great online mode like 40 people online at once! The story might only take you 
 15 hours but the online will insure you at least ten mounths of pure online play! WIth a wide variety 
 of weopons and lots of different types of levels. However in my opinion they need to make the storymode 
 twenty hours plus. But that is more then repaid with the amazing online mod. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 9.1
Date: Mar 16, 2007 1:28 am PT
Review:  Wow this game is definitely a pleasant surprise. Most Launch titles are not that great on any console, 
 but this one surprised me. I don't have a PS3 yet, but my best friend was lucky enough to get one, 
 and I bought resistance, so there you go lol. Any way heres is my review.
  
  Graphics: For a launch title this game is visually stunning, along the lines of Perfect Dark, just 
 with a different atmosphere and style. The only complaint I have is a few muddy textures here and 
 there and thats it. The Lighting and particle affects are amazing, when a grenade goes off etc., 
 you can literally see the individual particles, going everywhere. Visually this game is very satisfying.
 
  
  Gameplay: This is another aspect of were the game shines, 40 player multi player is outrageous 
 for a console, it works well. The gun play is great, maybe nothing revolutionary, but it does what 
 it does exceptionally. The action is crazy, there are tons of enemies at all times, and it gets 
 pretty crazy at times.
  Frames per second are perfect, it just doesn't get any better.
  
  The AI is very intelligent, they flank, and take cover always trying to one-up you. The only complaint 
 gameplay wise is the story. Its got decent characters, but the story line is somewhat mediocre, 
 but the action of the game makes up for that. Another downer is the lack of Co-op online. You can 
 do the single player Co-op split screen but not online.... kind of sucks but thats ok.
  
  Sound: The sound is great, everything is on par with the guns explosions. Its not perfection, but 
 its not abysmal either.
  
  Value: This game is definitely worth every penny. The multi player is awesome, the single player 
 is excellent, visuals and sound are top notch, its just an excellent game, and an awesome value.
 
  
  Overall this game lives up to the hype for me. Its an awesome FPS, with excellent gameplay, graphics, 
 and its just a wonderful value over all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elon005
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2007 6:27 pm PT
Review:  wel.. this game is really sick for one thing. This game is going to be like the next halo type 
 game for ps3, but even better. It has amazing graphics and could ow3n halo 2 anyday. The gameplay 
 is very smooth and the sound is awesome. i would recommend this game to anyone that is buyin the 
 ps3. Buy this game first!! The guns look realistic and so do the environment and the aliens in 
 the game. The online 40 player game is really good and it's fun killing aliens in this game. One 
 of my favourite games for the ps3 besides call od duty 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TechGuruGuy
Rating: 9.8
Date: Nov 16, 2006 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This very amazing game combines the great epic tales of World War II shooter with the sci-fi adventures 
 of Half Life with the long and outstanding story line there is never endless fun and surprises 
 in the campaign mode. You will see some of your favorite weapons from World War II plus some new 
 ones that you probably won't see for a while. You'll notice while playing the game that its like 
 Half Life 2 and all the Episodes all combined into one game with a Very long story line that never 
 gets old.
  
  Multiplayer is amazing, its like playing your favorite PC FPS on a console. Massive servers up 
 to 40!! People and you can use all the weapons from singleplayer in the Multiplayer. As you'll 
 notice its mainly Deathmatch which is still the #1 Multiplayer FPS game type around.
  
  Over all I would give this game, which is most likely going to be the #1 seller and played game 
 on the PS3 for a very long time like we saw on the Xbox 360 with Call of Duty 3 a 99.99 on hte 
 Game Spot scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sethro244
Rating: 9.6
Date: Nov 16, 2006 1:35 pm PT
Review:  THis game has every thing you want and more! It has a half-life/halo mixed with a call of duty 
 feeling. You have vehicles with it and the ratchet type unique guns! The glass effects are beautiful! 
 I shoot as much glass as I can in the game! 40 multiplayer online is sweet! This game is a A++++ 
 Game. It also has a great time line too. You will have fun going against all of your online friends 
 and the unique balance of abilities is pretty cool. They have pretty cool. They have some unique 
 modes and is just probably one of the best games ive played! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seanconnery31
Rating: 9.2
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Resistance Fall of Man Review
  ------------------------------------------ Summary : If anything, Resistance: Fall of Man is an 
 amazingly solid multiplayer package. In fact, the online features alone could set the price of 
 60 dollars. But Insomiac played it smart, and created a video-game that screams masterpiece every 
 single step of the way, supported by visually stunning graphics, flud action, and most surprisingly, 
 a solid single player component. Not only is Resistance the definite choice for a PS3 launch title, 
 it's the definite choice of the month -- my month at least. Waiters, this will not disappoint. Gameplay 
 : Unrivaled multiplayer that keeps a stable framerate, even with 40 players online in a single 
 match.
  
  Graphics : Aside from a few low polygons and textures, Resistance is amazing to look at.
  
 
  Sound : Nothing too remarkable, though it still sounds rich and deep. Value : Perfect, this game 
 will last you for several weeks, if not months.
  
  
  
  -R 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yazu13
Rating: 9.4
Date: Nov 16, 2006 9:46 am PT
Review:  With the PS3 well on it's way to the households of the good old USA, it's first killer app comes 
 with it, and that killer app is Resistance: Fall of Man. With it's great graphics, inventive weapons, 
 and Insomniac's new sense of gravitas mixed into it, this game is an experience that will last 
 you quite awhile. But, to put it right out there without using advanced words like gravitas , this 
 game is downright fun with enough enjoyment to be derived for weeks at a time, not to mention the 
 neverending fun that online provides.
  
  Story
  The story revolves around Nathan Hale, a US sergeant who is brought into a war that the British 
 are having with an unknown and monstrous new species known as the Chimera. The game is set in an 
 alternate reality version of 1951 in Europe where World War II never happened, but a war of massive 
 proportions is still going on between all of mankind and the aforementioned Chimera, thus setting 
 the stage for Resistance's battles and overall feel and experience.
  
  Presentation
  Production values are through the roof on this one. With constant activity and polished and well-thought 
 out effects, this game creates the perfect ambiance for it's story and sense of destruction. You 
 really feel as though unknown creatures have sprung up and destroyed Europe without mercy.
  
  Graphics
  While it's not the prettiest game out there, it provides the perfect atmosphere 
 that almost can't be beat, that is to say that a lot of things are done well, and they look really 
 good too. The texture work could use some improving, but character models all look really good 
 and freakishly detailed, the environment is rich with the detail that could be found in the tattered 
 remains of a city, and overall, everything looks really, really good, save for looking at some 
 objects up close.
  
  Performance
  This game was fine-tuned to the very last piece of data. It's framerate stays at a nice 30 frames/second 
 throughout the entire single-player campaign, during all of the co-op levels (you can play through 
 the entire single player campaign cooperatively) , and even online, giving Sony a nice foothold 
 for it's new online plan, and also giving us a taste of what it's capable of. Also, it runs perfectly. 
 With no flaws in the design whatsoever, this game is truly a masterpiece. Good job Insomniac!
 
  
  Sound
  A killer app isn't complete without sound, is it? Well, Resistance doesn't skip on this. With realistic 
 sound booming from every corner of the battlefield, this game has a stellar sound design that will 
 undoubtedly make you euphoric. So, go out and get some surround sound speakers, because this game 
 will put them to the test.
  
  Gameplay
  While nigh a first-person shooter has come out in awhile to really re-invent the genre gameplay-wise, 
 this game comes close with innovative and fun weapons, a great feel, and perfect handling. The 
 guys at Insomniac really went all out on this one. Also, while the Chimeras aren't rocket scientists, 
 they do provide a good challenge and will occasionally surprise you by flanking and ambushing you. 
 As well as that, they all act believable and have some of the best physics ever seen for enemies 
 (or allies for that matter) , so if you shoot, blow up, or burn an enemy, they will act realistically 
 and flail about in an incredibly believeable way, adding that much more pleasure out of fragging 
 the opposition.
  
  Lasting Appeal
  With online support for 40 people at a time, co-op play through the entire single player game, 
 and a lengthy campaign to boot, this is the gift that keeps on giving. Also, on top of that, the 
 story is intriguing and cryptic, giving you incentive to play through the entire game to find out 
 where everything ends up, and even enough to play through it again since along with story snippets 
 in the form of documents and such, you also get some nice secret weapons after beating the game 
 on medium difficulty. So, believe me when I say this: This game will have you glued to your TV 
 for quite awhile!
  
  So, in short, this game is the definitive FPS experience. With great production values, a stellar 
 sound design, an insane value with hours upon hours of gameplay, this truly is the PS3's first 
 killer app. If you can snag yourself a PS3, then be sure to check this game out. You won't be disappointed. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
