-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resistance 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/resistance2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic eight-player cooperative mode.
 Large, vividly detailed environments.
 Smart, tough enemies and huge, huge bosses.
 Lag-free online matches with up to 60 players.
 Varied and powerful weapons.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Weak story with uninteresting characters.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  5, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.7, 62 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 5,009 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Insomniac Games
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 4, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Resistance 2 is bigger, better, and broader -- everything a stellar sequel should be. 

  Almost two years after Resistance: Fall of Man gave PlayStation 3 owners their first great exclusive 
 shooter, Resistance 2 has arrived bearing more great news. No, humanity hasn't gained an edge in 
 its desperate fight against the alien Chimera (quite the opposite, in fact) . The news is that Resistance 
 2 takes the grand apocalyptic setting and tight, fast-paced action of its predecessor and improves 
 upon it in almost every way. Bigger battles, richer environments, and an outstanding new eight-player 
 cooperative mode elevate Resistance 2 above almost every other shooter on the PS3.  

           Welcome to the bigs.      

  From the first moments of the single-player campaign, 
 Resistance 2 proclaims its dedication to grandeur. As you crawl from the wreckage of your transport 
 helicopter, you look up to see a sinister, towering machine laying waste to your surroundings, 
 its shiny black bulk standing in stark relief to the smoky blue sky and green Nordic scrub. Environments 
 (and enemies) like these, vividly colored and remarkably big, are prevalent throughout the campaign. 
 Your journey will take you across North America, where you'll visit a fantastic variety of rural, 
 suburban, urban, and alien landscapes. You'll see attention to detail in the plants under your 
 feet, in the towering skyscrapers above your head, and everywhere in between. The scars of the 
 Chimeran invasion clash dramatically against the technicolor mid-century American backdrop, setting 
 a superb stage for exciting action.  

  And make no mistake, the action is the real star here. The protagonist, Nathan Hale, and his fellow 
 soldiers are run-of-the-mill characters, and the functional story is a bit too vague to be interesting. 
 Intel documents scattered about each level provide intriguing background and foreshadowing, but 
 most of them are hidden away and require too much errant exploration to find. The only time you'll 
 feel any emotional connection to the proceedings is when you stop to listen to the radio. The scattered 
 monologues from radioman Henry Stillman provide a wrenching window into the despair of a nation 
 overrun, and they're the lone narrative highlight.  

  Despite the lackluster story, Resistance 2's excellent single-player campaign is a thrilling roller 
 coaster ride across dozens of varied locales, each infested with Chimera. Your horrible alien foes 
 run the gamut from tiny chittering scorpions to fanged foot soldiers, from shielded two-story titans 
 to lumbering forty-story leviathans. They come at you in waves of increasing size and intensity; 
 they are quick, aggressive, and accurate, and dispatching them will take skill and persistence. 
 Resistance 2 isn't an easy game, but that just makes your hard-fought victories sweeter.  

  To achieve these victories, you'll need to stay alive. You can fully recover your health by ducking 
 out of the line of fire for a few seconds, a tactic you'll need to use often. While you usually 
 aren't too far from a checkpoint, you're often far enough to make death very unappealing. This 
 is particularly true during the massive boss battles and the large-scale conflicts that pit you 
 against legions of increasingly nasty Chimera. These are the most exciting encounters in the game, 
 and though the former are less challenging than the latter, there's nothing quite like squaring 
 off against a beast the size of the Chrysler Building.  

           Hello! Can I interest you in our new eyeball replicating ointment? Side effects may include 
 dizziness, disfiguration, and spontaneous dental trauma.      

  The 12 guns you wield throughout the campaign are also quite satisfying. Some old favorites have 
 returned, like the workhorse M5A2 Carbine, and there are a few great additions, like the .44 Magnum 
 that shoots bullets that double as remote-detonated explosives. Secondary attacks like this one 
 are a feature on every gun, and they effectively double the destructive options at your disposal. 
 Though the weapons don't feel particularly realistic, they are so uniquely deadly and fun to use 
 that you'll hardly notice. You can only carry two guns at a time, but the game does a good job 
 of making sure you have a chance to use them all. There are also a few different types of powerful 
 grenades at your disposal (notably the fiery air-fuel and spiky hedgehog) , and they round out your 
 very effective and very gratifying arsenal.  

  While the campaign is a lengthy (about 10 hours) and satisfying endeavor, the online cooperative 
 mode is what really sets Resistance 2 apart. In this mode, up to eight players fight their way 
 through hordes of Chimera to accomplish a set of objectives. Each player must choose one of three 
 specific classes, each with its own guns and special abilities. The Medic drains enemy health and 
 passes it on to teammates, an essential function because no one can regenerate health. The Special 
 Ops uses a battle rifle of sorts and is the only source of ammunition refills. The Soldier carries 
 a gatling gun that can generate a protective shield, defending his teammates and shredding the 
 Chimera simultaneously. This interdependency binds players together and creates a frantic, engaging 
 team dynamic.  

  As a further incentive, each player earns experience and currency throughout the mission that can 
 be used to unlock more weapons, special abilities, and stat-enhancing gear. These powerful bonuses 
 aren't easy to attain, which makes earning them all the more satisfying. The action plays out on 
 a variety of sizable multiplayer maps inspired by the campaign levels. These maps each have a bevy 
 of objectives, and every mission takes a few objectives at random and strings them together, so 
 subsequent playthroughs of the same map feel different. This is a good thing, because you'll have 
 to run a number of successful missions on the first map before you unlock the next, and so on. 
 Each map is designed so that enemies can (and will) come at you from a number of directions. Missions 
 are hard and demand teamwork and skill, so each time you vanquish a wave of enemies it feels like 
 a small victory. Add this sense of accomplishment to the addictive and rewarding experience system, 
 and you've got a game mode that's truly excellent.  

           With enemies like this, you'll need all the friends you can get.      

  If you're 
 not feeling cooperative, Resistance 2 boasts a robust competitive mode as well. Maps accommodate 
 as few as two and as many as 60 players, and do so with virtually no lag. The usual Deathmatch, 
 Team Deathmatch, and Capture the Flag ("Core Control") modes are available, but the best of the 
 bunch is Skirmish. In this mode, teams are divided up into squads, and each squad receives on-the-fly 
 objectives to complete. Objectives are updated often and can change the flow of battle drastically, 
 so each match has a unique, frantic feel. Unlike in the cooperative mode, you have all the abilities 
 and weapons in the single-player campaign readily available to you, so everyone is more or less 
 evenly matched. You can also play ranked matches to earn experience and upgrades, and even though 
 it's not quite as engaging as the cooperative mode, the competitive multiplayer is still a blast. 

  All in all, Resistance 2 is an excellent game. The stirring scale of the single-player levels is 
 impressive and the pervasive details make them truly awesome. Despite the squandered story, blasting 
 your way through the campaign is electrifying, thanks largely to the deadly weapons in your arsenal. 
 The cooperative multiplayer is a resounding success, and the competitive modes are terrific in 
 their own right. Anyone looking for a superb shooter experience need look no further than Resistance 
 2.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (350 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Sinnapticked
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 11:36 am PT
Review:  Stunning graphics, Giant bosses, and an immense amount of feeling ripped off.
  Nope, don't like the regen factor. Liked it better in RFOM.
  Nope, don't like the ability to 
 only carry 2 weapons. Full on arsenal was more fun. If I want reality I won't play a game battling 
 aliens in a 1950's alternate reality... I like to switch up the tactics.
  I lost count of how many missions involve sequences of the same 3 enemies chasing me around or 
 rushing at me while I run backwards and shoot them. A $60 experience it ain't.
  
  Okay so I'm in this creepy village and knowing that at some point something is going to be popping 
 out of these cocoons, I'm blowing them away as I infiltrate to the middle of the city. Checkpoint.... 
 plot point, all hell breaks loose and enemies come spawning out of cocoons. I die. Reload checkpoint.... 
 All the cocoons I blew up on my way in are just fine and all I did was waste all my ammo as now 
 they are spawning more enemies. This was not the last time something like this happened either.
 
  Checkpoint fail.
  
  I'm sure glad my team of guys don't do anything and are completely ignored by the wave after wave 
 of chimera chasing me around in a circle... go get those guys, they are standing still... in fact 
 one of em is asleep I think.
  Those last 2 points just make the game broken to me, and they could have easily been fixed. What 
 is the point of a game saving itself it forgets everything else you have done?
  Then there is the ending.. or lack thereof.
  RFOM had a beginning and an end.
  This has a beginning 
 and then it stops.
  Hope the sequel is not as high class trash as this installment.
  
  There are better games out there. Rent this if you want to be part of this series. Buy RFOM... 
 rent this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 18, 2009 4:06 am PT
Review:  Resistance fall of man was originally a well received launch title for the PS3 and while not mould-breaking 
 was an enjoyable game that gathered many fans. Resistance 2 offers more of the same but bigger. 
 Everything in this game has scaled up in regards to the original, bigger enemies, bigger maps, 
 bigger multiplayer, it's all about the size.
  
  The story carries straight on from the end of the first game with Nathan Hale as the main protagonist 
 only this time taking the fight back to the United States as the Chimeras attacks spread out of 
 Europe. Hale has been put into an elite squad of other Chimera infected soldiers called the sentinels 
 to push back against the invasion but as usual things never go quite to plan.
  
  Story wise Resistance 2 is passable but never astounds. The characters for the most part come across 
 as generic troopers and nothing terribly interesting happens in that regard though it does it's 
 job to put Hale in a vast array of different locations through the US and give him the opportunity 
 to kill a lot of things.
  
  Each level Hale passes through from woodland to full cities is fairly linear but well designed 
 to make them feel hectic and in many cases full of suspense. This is partially due to enemy designs 
 with predator like cloaking Chimera attacking at any turn or even traveling through a city of cocoons 
 for 10 minutes with nothing happening before finding out they burst with Chimera and you have to 
 go back through where there are hundreds....
  
  As great as the normal enemies are they are nothing in comparison with the boss fights, I kid not 
 when i say some are the size of skyscrapers. Giant Chimera, huge walking battle platforms and sea 
 dwelling Kraken are just some of them and they really make an impact, you will remember them.
 
  
  Fortunately the developer of this series is insomniac who have in the past shown a flair for great 
 weapons with the Ratchet & Clank series and Resistance 2 is no different. These include rocket 
 launchers, particle cannons, sniper rifles, machine guns etc of both human and Chimera design all 
 of which have secondary fire options either for grenades, homing tags or even shields, so taking 
 these enemies down shouldn't be a problem. There is a downside though, you can only carry two at 
 any one time as a change from the first Resistance, though there are generally plenty lying around 
 to help you out in any given situation.
  
  As fun as the single player is, really it's the online that makes Resistance 2 so brilliant. Resistance 
 fall of man had 40 player multiplayer at launch which shocked me for a console to do such a thing. 
 Resistance 2 bumps that up to 60 and with no problems. The online matches are fast but structured 
 due to Insomniacs clever squad allocation. You never have to look hard to find the action despite 
 the large maps with various modes on offer including deathmatch, team deathmatch etc.
  
  Every time you shoot someone you gain experience points, more if you get the kill which causes 
 you to level up. As you do you gain access to new character heads, uniforms and accessories to 
 customize your character with. This is not all though as you gain a larger variety of berserks. 
 These are special moves that you can use after you have enough kills for a one off effect, they 
 might allow you to see through walls, up your defense, give you a one shot rocket launcher etc. 
 Depending on where you use it can turn the tide of a battle as some also effect your squad mates 
 in the area you set it off.
  
  While Resistance 2 doesn't have a co-op story mode, it does support an 8 player co-op mode going 
 though randomized objectives on a level so playing the same one is never quite the same. In this 
 mode you and up to 7 other players take on Chimera hordes including powered up Titans and other 
 large enemies by working as a team. There are 3 classes to choose from including medic, soldier 
 and special ops all of which are needed to be able to survive. Like the other multiplayer mode 
 you get experience for kills, as well as giving ammo and healing which levels up that class and 
 gives them new weapons or berserks. By collecting grey matter you can also purchase added equipment 
 to increase certain stats or abilities as well.
  
  The graphics for Resistance 2 are pretty good all round and certainly has it's moments like one 
 part where Chimera ships fly over San Fransisco is jaw dropping, but overall textures seem to have 
 been slightly sacrificed for the scale of the whole title but doesn't disappoint in the end.
  
  The sound to R2 isn't exactly remarkable, like the story it passes by but you won't really 
 remember it. The music is just sort of there when there is any lacking the punch other shooters 
 have like Halo in that regard. The voice acting for the main characters just gives the "Gruff marine" 
 impression without any real feel to it though the radio broadcaster you hear on your travels does 
 an excellent job of a man in despair at whats happening around him.
  
  I played Resistance 2 for maybe 60 hours in total going through the campaign on all hardness difficulties 
 and playing the online to death as it was such a blast, so there is certainly a lot of replay value. 
 If you go for the trophies be sure to have a lot of spare time on your hands....
  
  Overall Resistance 2 doesn't push the boat out too much but does take everything that was great 
 about the first title and improves upon it making it bigger, prettier and meatier. If you like 
 playing shooters online then this is the game for you, even if you don't the single player is still 
 an excellent ride worth playing through for any sci-fi fan.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Getix-01
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 5:15 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2
  
  Graphics: they may be an improvement on the originals rushed graphics that would of barely unleashed 
 the power of the ps2, but they are still not brilliant.
  after seeing what the ps3 is truely capable of the graphics still seem rushed.
  it may have its 
 own graphical style now like gears of war and call of duty, it just doesnt seem good enough to 
 hang with the best games out there.
  
  Gameplay: still the fun at times arcade shooter it was, but there are no enhancements except easier 
 to use controls, its still rush, hide and regenerate over and over. but when you dont have time 
 to regenerate, guess what... your'e dead. the game still features forgettable and boring characters, 
 and the most boring levels ever seen in a resistance game. the good thing is it still feels like 
 your on your last chance of surviving the chrimera outbreak. it really does feel like your'e resisting. 
 until you enter the...
  
  Multiplayer: the same great fun that entertained us till call of duty 4 came out had been changed 
 a tiny bit. with now 60 players at once, but its too fast paced with no strategy at all, its just 
 run a gun you will never get a kill.
  this game is just too boring and frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyclonebw
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Why would I give Resistance 2 a 10? Many reasons but manly because it is almost totally perfect! 
 This is the only ps3 game I have ever played that has not had a single noticeable glitch in the 
 entire campaign play-through. Its graphics are surprisingly great and game-play rocks with the 
 right controls in the right spot! Do not be fooled by its prequel Resistance fall of man where 
 it wasn't really the best start of the resistance series. The multipayer is the best multi-player 
 I have played (no offense to people who like COD games) and after the new update which brings the 
 new aftermath map pack available at PSN store it got even better. It also has brought back the 
 favorite play mode on Resistance Fall of Man, Meltdown mode! There is something very unexpected 
 that comes with the game, co-op but not the co-op you'd expect, Resistance 2 has designed specific 
 maps for you and your friends and help of others to complete these special missions set into the 
 map! THIS GAME IS A MUST OWN TO PEOPLE WHO ENJOY AWESOME GAME-PLAY, WICKED GRAPHICS AND AN AWW 
 INSPIRING CAMPAIGN! If you do not like these kinds of things then i suggest you don't play this 
 game and speak with your psychiatrist! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 7:18 pm PT
Review:  In a sense, Resistance 2 doesn't quite feel like a traditional sequel to Insomniac's original installment 
 in this FPS series. It has the same universe and the same action-packed feel that the first carried, 
 but many things from the gameplay to the multiplayer has been changed. Some people will love how 
 they changed things up rather than just make small additions, and others may complain that it feels 
 too different. But it's hard to argue that Resistance 2 isn't a worthy game to have in your collection.
 
  
  Resistance 2 sees protagonist Nathan Hale travel to the United States in order to once again battle 
 the Chimera, who have launched a full scale invasion of both the east and west coasts. This time 
 out Hale is part of a special task force of soldiers called "The Sentinels", who, like him, are 
 infected with the Chimeran virus, but keep it under control with special inhibitors and are thus 
 able to reap the benefits. The storytelling is decently done, and the story itself can be intriguing 
 at times. The story has plenty of twists to keep you on the edge of your seat, and while it's nothing 
 that will set new highs for gaming stories, Resistance 2 does a good overall job with the story. 
 But make note that the famous narrator from the original does not appear in the second installment.
 
  
  In the single player campaign you will travel across the globe to different locations to take on 
 the Chimera. These levels are full of enemies for you to blast through, and you'll ocaisonally 
 come across one of the bosses. One big addition to Resistance 2 is the HUGE boss battles. You'll 
 encounter bosses as big as skyscrapers, in which case you have to maneuver around it and come up 
 with a way to take it down. The bosses look fantastic, and it really is just a blast taking them 
 down. This provides a nice break from the regular gameplay. 
  
  Also given an overhaul is the overall gameplay mechanics of the game. There is now a Call of Duty 
 type aiming system, where you can hold down the L1 button to zoom in for a more accurate shot. 
 They also have removed the weapon-wheel in this version, and you now have access to only 2 weapons 
 at a time. You can swap weapons whenever you come across a new one, and you'll almost always have 
 access to the appropriate weapon so having only 2 guns works well.
  
  This time around the campaign mode is noticeably shorter than it was in the first Resistance. The 
 game can be completed by the average player in 7-8 hours. It may sound disappointing, but I have 
 found that it actually improved the experience. You get an epic campaign the whole way through, 
 without it ever feeling like it's being dragged on. It also encouraged me to replay the campaign 
 because I knew I wouldn't have to spend to long on it. 
  
  As good as single player is, that isn't even the highlight of this game. 
  
  The original set 
 the bar for next generation FPS multiplayer. It gave simple yet addicting matches with virtually 
 lag-free 40 player multiplayer. This time around they have bumped it to 60 players, and even added 
 co-op. 
  
  For starters, the stat tracking system is absolutely one of the greatest I have ever seen. Your 
 reward for getting kills, completing objectives, etc. is XP, and this is all added up to increase 
 your level. You have different levels for co-op and competitive, but you also have a main level 
 which is fgenerated from the XP gained in Campaign, Co-op, and Competitive. There are also plenty 
 of awards/ribbons in your profile to encourage you to keep playing.
  
  Competitive multiplayer is split into four modes -- Deathmatch, Team Deatchmatch, Core Control (CTF) , 
 and Skirmish. Skirmish is where teams are divided into teams, and each team must complete objectives 
 ordered to them by the leader. The matches are fast-paced and overall just a blast to play. My 
 only complaint is that often times the small matches are better than large, because having 60 players 
 on a map can just be overwhelming, and it can be hard to stay alive for more than a few seconds 
 on occasions.
  
  The big addition this time is Co-op. Up to 8 players can participate in this mode. Each player 
 chooses from one of three classes -- Soldier, Spec Ops, or Medic. The main goal of a Soldier is 
 to kill the chimera, Spec Ops provide the Soldiers with ammo, Medics heal the other players. Each 
 of the classes are fun to play, and you're bound to find one you like and want to use as your main 
 class. If you get in a good match, it feels awesome working together as a team to complete the 
 mission. Sometimes the game will throw hundreds of enemies at you at once, and it's very challenging, 
 but still loads of fun working to take them all out. 
  
  Graphically, Resistance 2 isn't being mentioned with the best games. It has a lot of blurry, undetailed 
 textures, and it just doesn't look as smooth as games like MGS4 or Killzone 2. However, something 
 that's being overlooked is how much action is taking place. There are so many things going on at 
 a time, and I find it pretty impressive that the game looks as good as it does.
  
  Resistance 2 is one of the most fun experiences I've ever had with an FPS game. It has a very good 
 single player campaign along with an online experience that is aruguably the best available right 
 now. I would recommend Resistance 2 to just about everyone who owns a PS3.
  
  
  Score: 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireknight23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:39 am PT
Review:  Where do i start with resistance 2 . Insomniac did a fantastic job a of taking resistance a well 
 done launch title for the ps3 and making one the best sequels i've seen since halo 2 . Every aspect 
 of resistance 2 is a huge leap from the first from the vastly improved graphics to the much better 
 and more intense story particularly due the much more talkative nathan hale the half chimera hero 
 from the first game who was a bit of a mute in his last adventure.
  And the erie yet immersive radio announcer who likes to give his view on things from time to time. 
 At the begining our announcer friend is filled with hope for the future and slowly he steeps into 
 despair echoing the voice of the people in a world ruled by the chimera. Now we come to the gameplay. 
 What players may notice first is the change in weapon selection the multi weapon select menu from 
 the first is gone now in favor of a more halo 2 like selection. This creates a better flow to the 
 gameplay and is handier during multiplayer matches. Now as is their style Insomniac has not failed 
 on adding interesting toys in their new installment. my particular favorite the magnum why u ask?? 
 Two words exploding bullets not only is the gun a 1 hit k. o on most that you encounter but if use 
 secondary fire the bullets still in the enemy will explode with great force killing anyone right 
 next to the body. it makes for great moments of devious traps and joy. all the guns from the original 
 make their way back the devious tag that can set traps and set a mark on your enemies as you watch 
 your bullets chase them about then you come back To the classic carbine. Aslo added to the game 
 are some truly memorable boss fights that while not horribly challenging are great fun. I could 
 go on and but i think it's mutiplayer time with an improved match making system finding matches 
 is cake and there are some great maps but the co op is where it gets great although you dont go 
 though the story like in the first one that wont matter a bit because the gameplay itself is soo 
 fun it's 4 man based each person plays a different role medic, gunner, spec ops, dont quote me on 
 the names but their roles go as follows gunner has well a big gun a shield he takes the bulk of 
 the fire the medic is rather interesting instead of droping health he uses a heath draining gun 
 that stores the health he gains and then fires it at a friend healing them while hurting the enemy. 
 That leaves spec ops they have a marksman a kind of battle rifle weapon with a lightning based 
 secondary fire and they drop ammo for the gunner. look i could go on and but ill leave you with 
 this if you have ps3 buy it, if you liked resistance buy it , if you like shooters buy it; its 
 just that good . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: floristandbicyc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:11 pm PT
Review:  It's been a long time since I've played a shooter that's kept me glued to the screen for so many 
 hours at a time, prompting late entries at work, an accumulation of sparse facial hair on my virginal 
 face, and an overall neglect for hygiene. Lush, beautiful environments, a vast arsenal and challenging 
 enemies keep you running, gunning, and gawking through the whole affair. Huge, towering, Chimeran 
 incarnations seek out your bones for mincemeat, and wave after wave of grunts and other lesser 
 beasts will prompt many a soiled trouser. But all's not perfect; some quirks (not flaws mind you) 
 in design as well as second-rate story delivery raise at least one of my four eyebrows, and ground 
 this other wise sublime piece of gaming goodness.
  
  I was a little late to hop on the Resistance: Fall of Man bandwagon; by the time I wet my mittens 
 I had already had the pleasure of playing other masterpieces such as Call of Duty 4, Bioshock, 
 and Crysis, so the first Resistance didn't quite have the impact on me as it might have had on 
 others. That being said, I still had a blast of a good time playing it, and my expectations for 
 the second installment were justifiably high. Resistance 2 not only met these expectations, it 
 surpassed them on almost all fronts.
  
  You resume your role as Nathan Hale, the surly American soldier infected but unaffected by the 
 Chimeran virus in his battle through Britain, the land of quality footwear and good manners. This 
 time around you stomp soil in the motherland, from Chicago to Louisiana. The Chimera have invaded 
 the states, and you and your new pals in the SRPA (Special Research Projects Administration) have 
 to stop them, as well as sniff out the trail of some squidy inbred named Daedalus. Beautiful cutscenes 
 sandwich each mission, though the narrative delivered through them is shallow and fragmented. The 
 remainder of the narrative is delivered through in game dialogue via your squads communication 
 channel, which can prove tedious when important objectives or details are voiced during intense 
 gun fights, which are plentiful. You'll often arrive at an objective wondering why you're completing 
 them, or wondering what the overall purpose of your mission is. Certain tensions between characters 
 seem unnecessary, and dialogue is often pointed at topics yet unexplained (or never explained at 
 all) , perhaps missed amidst the gunpowder and smoke. Collectible 'intel' can be found scattered 
 across the levels in an attempt to flesh out the story, but most of these are dry and don't answer 
 the more important questions that rear out of the holes in the plot. So the eminent doom (because 
 that's what's happening, right?) of humanity looms before you and you just don't care. But you 
 shouldn't, because Resistance 2 makes up for these shortcomings with incredible visuals, nail biting 
 gameplay, and buckets of atmosphere. 
  
  The sense of scale is simply epic; from the gorgeously rendered environments to the titanic boss 
 fights, everything looks, sounds, and moves with unmatched grandeur. All of the single player campaigns 
 seven chapters have a different look to them, and you never feel bored stalking through the hallways 
 and the shells of battlefields in between firefights. It's not that the art direction is particularly 
 unique; we've all seen the war-torn ruins and the otherworldly glow of alien architecture before, 
 it's simply that it's done so well, with skies literally overflowing with the giants that comprise 
 the Chimeran fleet, and dank, musty hallways housing growing, mutating cocoons, so vivid that you 
 can almost feel the torpid moisture on your skin. There is no shortage in atmosphere, and there 
 are several instances where you'll actually feel scared, treading softly through the ill-lit corridors, 
 wary of what might be around the corner.
  
  The boss fights are the crown jewelthey are all enormous, easily filling the screen, and watching 
 them thunder along in the distance is enough to make a hard man weep. It's a shame that these fights 
 are relatively easy and brief. You get the feeling that they are put in there more for the spectacle 
 than for gameplay, but this is by no means a bad thing. Enemy design boasts a good variety, each 
 Chimeran strain serving it's own purpose and offering different challenges, and all look awesome.
 
  
  I was happy to see Insomniac remove the toggle zoom from the first game, replacing it with the 
 standard hold-to-zoom mechanic seen in most modern shooters. Strangely you don't actually go straight 
 to ironsights, your view switches to a closer perspective from behind the barrel, the weapon's 
 sights centered on the screen, with the reticle still visible. It 's a compromise between the pure 
 ironsights/reflexsights of tactical shooters and the out-dated semi-zoom aiming mechanics of games 
 like FEAR or Killzone; automatic weapons seem less lethal. Regardless, the ample assortment of 
 arms available to you are nothing to laugh at; thanks to each gun's unique secondary fire mode, 
 every weapon is fun to use and won't grow obsolete as the campaign progresses in difficulty. Resistance 
 2 limits you to carrying two weapons at a time, but gives you plenty of opportunities to switch-out 
 your arsenal and change your tactics on the fly. The Bullseye, Auger and Fareye make a joyful reappearance 
 from the first game, supplemented with new toys like the Bellock, a semi-automatic incendiary grenade 
 launcher, and the supremely ace Splicer, which fires razor-sharp saw-blades that ricochet off hard 
 surfaces. The latter's secondary fire mode allows you to charge up a single blade, making it a 
 tremendous melee weapon, then eject it at some poor bastards face. Tapping the primary fire button 
 spins the blade in whatever unfortunate object it's lodged in, even after you've scampered off 
 behind cover.
  
  Gunplay shies away from both the tactical and the run-and-gun, comfortably settling down in between 
 the two. It's a wonderfully balanced, exhilarating bullet ballet. You'll find yourself ducking 
 and dodging in and out of cover constantly as enemies are numerous and often difficult to take 
 down. You can also sprint almost indefinitely, which can be useful when surprised with a swarm 
 of Chimera that magically spawn around a corner or promptly after you complete an objective. Default 
 controls allow you to both sprint and duck using the same button; holding the button will allow 
 you to sprint, while tapping the same button will bring your character into a crouch. The option 
 to lie prone is mysteriously absent, but so are the circumstances in which you'd need to do so. 
 Control of Hale is pretty straightforward and natural, but in some spots of the game I found myself 
 caught on objects that didn't seem to be in my way. Grenades occasionally bounce off corners back 
 at you, even when these corners are on the very cusp of your periphery. These are but mere annoyances, 
 they don't dampen the experience; you'll soon get used to it.
  
  Though the epic battles are challenging and will keep you on your toes, Resistance 2 is not too 
 difficult, at least on normal settings. Enemy AI is quick and unpredictable, and often engage you 
 in overwhelming numbers. Chimeran Hybrids will chase after you and attempt to break through friendly 
 lines, so hiding in one spot is not a good idea. Each enemy appears to be supplied with a near 
 infinite supply of grenades, adding one more reason to keep moving. Stronger breeds of Chimera 
 spawn more frequently as the game progresses, and each will require some fast toes and a diligent 
 trigger finger to circumvent. The game triggers that prompt these hordes to spawn do provide a 
 minor annoyance. You'll find yourself dealing with one batch of enemies, only to cross a certain 
 landmark or flip a certain switch, bringing additional reinforcements pouring from around the corner, 
 or even behind you. At other times, rushing too fast towards a doorway will result in you being 
 trampled by Chimeran footwear as they pop out, like that grey cat perpetually jumping out from 
 the filing cabinet in horror movies. Certain instant deaths seem rather unnecessary, like jumping 
 from car to car over a river filled with Furies, which will feast on your supple thighs the moment 
 you hit the water. A seemingly innocuous platform reveals it's dark side when, in the middle of 
 a tense trading of bullets, you fall through a hole in the middle of it. It's a matter of taste 
 more than design; though some enjoy these pitfalls, I say leave the platforming to the platformers. 
 The key then is to always move around, but to take your timemove gingerly! You'll find yourself 
 passing through the pearly gates quite often in the first few chapters as you accustom yourself 
 to these surprise attack parties and perambulatory mishaps. Luckily checkpoints are numerous and 
 close together, and the games increasing difficulty is barely noticeable as you get used to the 
 style of movement necessary to survive. 
  
  Competitive online play is more twitch based than tactical, and favors seasoned players of Quake 
 and it's successors over those who prefer GRAW and Call of Duty 4 (I fall humbly into this category) 
 and more cerebral play styles, at least in the ranked matches. Don't get me wrong, crazy jumping 
 skills and lightning reflexes are extremely impressive; slower folk like myself need to rely on 
 more subversive approaches to keep the kill ratio above 1:1, and these are absent. Many of the 
 team deathmatches end up with masses of players on both sides running and jumping frantically around 
 chokepoints. This is a blast in it's own right, but I prefer the precision and strategic grace 
 of tactical shooters. Still, the online play is fun, fast, and addictive. Multiplayer battles with 
 60 players have practically no lag, and the superb weaponry makes deathmatches ferocious and riveting. 
 The Co-op element will also entertain you for a few hours, though it lacks the cinematic glory 
 of the single-player campaign, and is more a collection of objectives that you and your team-mates 
 have to shoot through.
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 is a wonderful, wonderful shooter. There is a lot to look and shoot at, 
 and if you can get past the story, you're pretty much guaranteed a great time. The single-player 
 campaign will take you about 10-12 hours, but can easily played several times (at least to relive 
 the boss fights!) . Massive multiplayer battles and 8-player co-op further extend it's value, and 
 the multiplayer leveling system will keep you massacring faceless people online until the wee hours. 
 Now, go shoot a Hybrid!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta_gamer10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:16 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Resistance 2 I instantly knew it was going to be a great game. 
  
  The visuals looks incredibly detailed and although the first Resistance graphics were good 
 it looks a great improvement. The most notable and stunning improvement of graphics is the water, 
 the way it flows when you walk through it and shoot at it make it an incredible gameplay element. 
 The scenery is also one of the best examples to exploit Resistance 2's brilliant visuals.
  
  The weapons are also majorly improved and look the powerful guns they are.
  Some of the most 
 notable weapons improved are the bullseye, it looks incredibly more detailed, the carbine, it looks 
 the same but its zoom in function makes it a more accurate and better weapon, and in my opinion 
 the most improved weapon is the auger, it looks great and it is better when trying to shoot enemies 
 through walls. There are also some new weapons added to Resistance 2 which include the magnum, 
 a powerful handgun with explosive bullets, the marksman, a new sniper rifle with brilliant aiming 
 and fire techniques and although there are two sniper rifles on the game the marksman is completely 
 different from the fareye, the bellock, which is a flamethrower and can fire out grenades and the 
 pulse cannon which fires charged energy. The grenades are also greatly improved and are best for 
 their gory disembowelment showing intricate detail of entrails sliding down walls and dropping 
 off ceilings.
  
  The boss fights are also surprisingly good and the individual bosses usually require one certain 
 weapon which is better for defeating it. The boss fights are also quite fun and enjoyable and the 
 most notable boss for fun and enjoyment is the leviathon as it is different from the usual bosses 
 in other games you come up against.
  
  Good Points: Stunning visuals, exciting new and improved weapons, great gameplay, good boss fights, 
 improved level design 
  
  Bad Points: The first half of the game is better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacj53647
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 5:05 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a great game. It was worth the wait. The graphics in this game is pretty good but 
 not awesome. It has one of the best water graphics I've seen so far. Anyways, the gameplay is really 
 good. There are so many cool weapons and weapon abilities. Player will never get bored. There are 
 just many moments when players are amazed. The big bosses in the game looks really cool and makes 
 the gameplay interesting and addictive. Offline game is also pretty good, but they could've done 
 it better. Resistance had a much better co-operative mode than Resistance 2. This game took 12 
 hours for me to finish. The missions are hard sometimes and the AI level is just right. This game 
 just focuses on its online feature. Co-operative is very important in games these days. In general, 
 this game is great. It is worth buying for sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pulawman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 continues with the lead character of Nathan Hale. In R: FoM, the story put Hale in 
 the middle of Europe fighting off the Chimera. R2 goes west and a forwards the story two years 
 in the heart of America. 
  
  The landscapes and size of the maps in this game are ridiculous. They look amazing to boot. The 
 gameplay is the same as R: FoM (which isn't a bad thing) . I won't go into the story so much for 
 spoilers, but it's solid.
  
  The online experience is where R2 shines. Weather you are playing Co-Op or Competitive, you'll 
 have a great time playing this one (unlike R: FoM) . Also in Update 1.5, R2 now has split screen, 
 so you have a buddy or two at your house can play online together against other foes. They just 
 need to create a free PSN acct.
  
  The ranking system is somewhat like CoD4, but it goes a little deeper. There are different classes 
 (soldier, medic, spec-ops) . It actually takes a decent amount of play time to rank up as each rank 
 can require a multitude of leveling.
  
  I would def suggest anybody to at least give this a rent to enjoy the ridiculous online 60 (30v30) 
 player matches. It's all chaos, but it's so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Truth__Regret
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  Firstly this game is not a let down and is a really good sequel. 
  The games campaign portrays several aspects of why it is such a great success. The game play of 
 it is a success, the graphics at points are influential and the overall length of the campaign 
 is satisfying. 
  The only real negative I have is the chimeran A. I is too predictive in the sense that you could 
 be complelety hidden, yet they will make a camakazi blitz towards you and well as many of you know 
 and have felt the frustration of yet another death by an insance chimeran. Other than the enemy 
 A. I's extensive knowledge to your were abouts the friendly A. I quite blatently suck, all they do 
 is "Run.... shoot, shoot..... die" Oh no there dead..... again _ this is a bit of a let down as 
 many games lack the ability to have well made A. I and well the game follows many predecessors. 
 campaign gets a well deserve 9.0/10.
  To sum up the online game play, well hmm..... very dissapointing, at first you will find it fun 
 as you play some core control and you chase the guy with the core, yet for some reason he has the 
 power of "flight" (not really lol) he can not only run at 100 mph plus he can dodge every round 
 put into his poor, sorry skull, yer hilarious at first, lacks excitment in the end and just brings 
 frustration, many of the other playlists lack variation and interest. Id give the online a 6.5/10.
 
  To co-operative, well completely amazing, so fun and exciting you could literally play for hours 
 with your friends. lots of vairation, interesting objectives and a good intergrated piece into 
 the game. Experience gain in co-op as well as online is extensive as well, both the unlockable 
 parts in co-op and online as really good as it gives you something to work for other than a rank 
 or badge. overall as im running out of points to discuss the co-op gets a 9 and overall in my opinion 
 the game "Resistance 2" gets a very, well respected 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zartan3000
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 4, 2009 3:30 am PT
Review:  Resistence 2 builds on the excellence of Fall of Man literally meeting up with the protagonist 
 Sgt. Hale as he is leaving the snow covered path out of LOndon only to be snapped up by a SRPA 
 black helicopter. 
  
  Thus begins another excellent Single Player Campaign. You have plenty of AI comrades to watch your 
 back, but you better be ready to kick some serious Chimeran tail yourself because your SRPA sidekicks 
 definitely don't let you cower in fear while they take on the brunt of the action. 
  
  The boss battles are AWESOME. They are all HUGE and pretty hard, but playing on normal, none of 
 them were too long. The campaign was shorter than Resistence 1 though I think (which after a recent 
 replay (did it 5 times... goes to show that it was the only good game to get on PS3 in 2006!... was 
 almost TOO long! - but only because there are LOTS of good games out there now perhaps)
  
  OK so the single player rocks, and I think there is a cooperative campaign too but i haven't tried 
 that out. 
  
  The multiplayer is excellent. Particularly the co-op mode where you pick between three classes, 
 medic, soldier and special ops. All are necessary, team work is vital and the levelling up will 
 keep people playing for years to come I bet. The Competitive mode is good too (but harder... these 
 players are GOOD) ... Also, they are already selling a new mappack on Playstation Store which I haven't 
 checked out yet.
  
  So all in all? A great shooter! Well worth picking up!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brighty22
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2009 1:16 pm PT
Review:  Some parts of the campain can be slightly difficult and tedious, but they are soon overcome, which 
 makes you feel even better. The locations are huge and detailed, with the highlight being one in 
 San Francisco, with the city on fire as thousands of chimeran ships fly overhead. It almost made 
 me gasp the first time I saw it... and the ending of the campain will leave you itching for R3.
 
  
  The subject which R2 beats all other FPSs though is the multiplayer. 60 player online is just plain 
 hilarious, with grenades going off everywhere and the server announcing that you are on a killing 
 spree when you get above a certain amount of kills. Compared to COD4, this is nowhere near as serious. 
 There are no UAVs/airstrikes/helicopters etc. You only appear on the enemies radar when you are 
 sprinting, or shooting. People just run out into the open, get a few kills (or just disintegrate 
 from a hedgehog grenade) then die and do it all over again. There is no cover anywhere, and as 
 a result if you get behind the enemy, you can bloodbath half of them before they've even noticed 
 you're there (especially with the Wraith) . I've done it several times, and it is immensely satisfying.
 
  
  Co-op is just as fun, if not better. You can go online with up to 8 players, and can even have 
 two on the same console, with the second person signed in thanks to recent 1.5 patch. There are 
 3 classes (medic, soldier, and spec ops) . Soldiers have a huge minigun called the HVP Wraith and 
 hardly any responsibility. Their job is just to kill. Medics (my favourite) have a gun called the 
 Phoenix, which can draw health from chimera and other objects (such as drones) and then re-issue 
 it to team mates in the form of healing bursts. Spec ops have to give the group ammo. They have 
 a gun called the Marksman, a scoped rifle which fires in very damaging bursts.
  
  The maps for co-op are unique, and unless you have played for over 48 hours, it is likely that 
 you will never have played quite the same match twice. In each map, there are several areas. During 
 a 'game', you visit 1 area from each main map. There are 7 maps in total, but you don't necessarily 
 visit an area in each one of them every match. I think the average is about 4 or 5, giving a game 
 time of 20-30 minutes. It does go by extremely quickly though.
  
  Overall, I think R2 deserves a 10 because it has infinite replayability, and thanks to the new 
 set of DLC, will not get repetitive. Some of the trophies are difficult, but it is fun finding 
 them, and just shows you how vast some of the scenery is. The Co-op really separates it out, and 
 it is my favourite mode. I have (since buying R2) not bought a game in almost 5 months. I think 
 R2 is far better than Killzone 2, as I hated the laggy controls in the demo. If you're sitting 
 on the fence thinking whether to get R2, my advice would be to ask yourself why you haven't already 
 got it! It should win game of the year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AbyssD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  My thots about Resistrance 2, RS2 has amazing graphics, atmosphere, gameplay and sound effect, 
 its really a brilliant game, the level design and texture its really well made really realistic 
 plus some times the game can be scary when u are in darkness or lost of aliens rune to kill and 
 i mean RUN, when first time i saw this i almost got a heart attack :D and when its comes to Boss 
 fight its the best part in the game i was mostly impressed when i fight Giand Monster in Chicago 
 that was so sick i never see somthing like that, plus the game has lost of Violance but whit out 
 violance it wont be that impresive, u hove also lots of weapons to play whit and u hove Cop online 
 and MP online if u like tha play whit your friends that make the game even more intresting, this 
 game really make u feel like u fighting again aliens its an experience that hard to forget all 
 i can say the game its amazing in all ways its like Halo mix whit Gear Of War and make Resistance 
 2 if u never play this game belive me u miss alot cuz this game its not somthing to miss well i 
 can say much i really need to see for your self so this is my review about Resistance 2 ow almost 
 forgot i wont spoil your fun but i will just tell u if u ever play first one cuz in second one 
 the end its really really sad so if u ever play the first Resistance u will understand, well take 
 care everyone and don't forget top try the game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joelgargan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 4:16 am PT
Review:  R2 was looking promising, especially because it was a follw up to insomniacs PS3 exclusive FPS, 
 Resistance: Fall of Man, But for me, It did not deliver what i expected.
  
  Good Points
  - Good level design
  - Decent storyline (not as good as the original)
  - Cutscenes add more 
 depth
  - Keeps the feel of the original 
  - Good Graphical Updates.
  - Some sincerely EPIC boss battles
  - Great online (Co-op surpasses competitive though...)
 
  
  
  Bad Points
  - Much, much shorter than the original Resistance.
  - You can only carry 2 guns.
  - The story mode was MUCH, MUCH shorter than the original and MUCH 
 MUCH easier.
  
  R2 Was a good FPS. It has good graphics, but it was just lacking in some departments. First of 
 all, The length of the Campaign was a big let down, Clocking in for me (I am quite good at FPS's) 
 at around 6 hours. Don't get me wrong though, the campaign was Jam-packed with action and epic 
 enemy battles and great locations. Second of all, They changed too many of the weapons. I mean, 
 not too significantly, but for example The main human weapon (the Carbine) now holds 30 m (instead 
 of 50 like the first) in its clip, And fires much faster. This is not a big change, but it was 
 a bit of a let down from the original for me.
  
  R2 was a good FPS, but it changed its style too much for me, Favouring controls much more similiar 
 to COD4 and changing some of the weapons for a more... Cinematic effect. It is still a good fun 
 FPS though, and it is worth a try for fans of the first and FPS lovers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WWE4lyfe123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Graphics 10/10
  The graphics are amazing, one of the best looking games I have have seen on the Ps3. It has a lot 
 more color than the 1st resistance, everything in R2 looks beautiful.
  
  Game play 10/10
  I got what I came for. This game play runs smooth and lags very little (if at all) . The new 2 gun 
 system works really well with the game. Adds challenge as well as strategy. The difficulties this 
 time MEAN what they say. Casual difficulty, a little embarrassed to say, was harder then the easy 
 mode on the last game.
  
  Story 6/10
  Probably the only thing I didn't enjoy, was the story. It was your usual apocalyptic story. "World 
 overrun by aliens. You have a gun and a grenade." Although the end was a little... different, you 
 do need to pick up intel to know exactly what's going on. The story is easy enough to follow so 
 you don't need to play the first one to get this one. 
  
  
  Multiplayer 10/10
  Simply an amazing aspect of the game. If you don't play Resistance for the campaign, then the next 
 reason you play is for the multiplayer. 60 people online has absolutely no lag at all. It runs 
 just like the game would and is epic just like the campaign. Co-op is just as amazing. Up to 8 
 people and 3 different classes. Enemies of up to 40 on one screen at a time will defiantly keep 
 you engrossed. On competitive, you will always be looking behind you when you're all alone. Possibly 
 the best aspect of the game.
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  One of the best games I've played all year and the best PS3 game all year this game is a must. 
 It is almost good enough to buy a PS3. This game will keep you engrossed for along time to come, 
 not with just the multiplayer but with all the trophies you can obtain. It misses the perfect score 
 mark by so very little. The only con is the weak story and the little character development 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 8:59 am PT
Review:  Don't know why I didn't play this game until now, but I'm glad that I finally get a chance to. 
 The design for this game is awesome, and so is the story. The ending wasn't a surprise, but it 
 has a twist. The one complaint I have about this game is the accuracy. If you see a small part 
 of the alien's body showing on the corner of the wall, you will not get any damage by shooting 
 it. -- The reticule will not get red for you to shoot nor will you do any damage by shooting anyway. 
 When talking about intense and scariness of this game, I like this as much as Dead Space. Dead 
 Space is more of a slower pace scariness, but this game spooks me every time I go into one of the 
 dark areas where the infected residents running at you. The game forces me to keep close to wall 
 so that i won't get attack from all sides. Highly recommended this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oden-X6V
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:33 am PT
Review:  Much better than Fall of Man, Resistance 2 clearly shows its stuff this time around. You can tell 
 just by playing the 1st level that most of the gameplay was based on Call of Duty 4 and it does 
 it brilliantly! New weapons, old ones improved and the 2 weapon carry limit adds to the intensity 
 rather than Fall of Mans back pack of destruction. Storyline is shorter than than the 1st one but 
 much better. Instead of you against an entire army, you have a team to assist you. New chimera 
 means a bigger challenge and adds to the fun, such as the giant Kraken among other giant monsters 
 you'll face in the game. The campaign mode is perfect. Excellent gameplay, new and improved weapons, 
 lots of trophies to be won as well as a good story. Sadly the online mode isn't as wonderful. Although 
 you can battle with up to 60 players, the gameplay in the online makes it as if it's an entirely 
 different game altogether! What would take 4 shots of the Bullseye to kill someone in the campaign, 
 it would take 20 shots to kill them in the online. There's not much place to hide in the maps so 
 it's almost like standing in a field. Expect to die within the 1st 20 seconds of a battle in the 
 online mode. The only thing to unlock in the online mode is stuff to change the look of your character. 
 All the guns are already unlocked so nothing special there. All in all it's an awesome game and 
 the co-op mode isn't too bad either although don't expect anything great from the online. I give 
 it 9/10. If only for the online I would have given it 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oraios
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  To start with Resistance Fall Of Man was a very good game and PS3 was very lucky having it in his 
 promo year. The graphics, the sound, the storyline and the gameplay were just magnificent. The programmers 
 achieved something beyond human's imagination. They managed to make the game even better. The graphics 
 are absolutely stunning. The sceneries, the storyline even the multiplayer are much much better 
 than the first version or anything else in the same category. To tell the truth i didn't expect 
 it to be like this. I expected it to have the same characteristics with the first version and only 
 different storyline. But when i played it my opinion changed cmpletely. Now that Killzone 2 has 
 been released it has lost the title of the best FPS on PS3 but remains one of the best games ever 
 made. The only thing you have to do is to try it and you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: popcapboy1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 8:46 am PT
Review:  Shooting aliens has never been this fun! This game is stupidly amazing! Its pretty hard but not 
 if you're a first person shooter nerd.
  
  Gameplay: Unbelievable! The controls are great and the shooting is fun. Some parts of this game 
 are very disgusting because people get ripped to pieces and their guts and organs splatter everywhere. 
 Some parts are pretty freaky but awesome. Furies and chameleons are pretty freaky. (but still awesome) . 
 I don't think it's a scary enough to even give a little kid bad dreams.
  
  Music: Sick! Its the perfect music for an alien shooter! Its kinda freaky because its like horror 
 movie music. Also sometimes when you're near destroyed cars you'll hear kinda country musicish 
 that really gets on your nerves.
  
  Controls: Great! Like I said there's great controls. Its very simple controls but thats good. R1 
 is shoot. (thats in almost all shooting games) . R2 is special shot and R3 is knife. L1 is lock 
 on. (thats probably my favourite button for lock on) and L2 is sprint. Thats most of the controls. 
 Very simple eh'. The rest of the controls are pretty simple too.
  
  I think if you're a PS3 owner you should buy this right away!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lefevrered
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2:
  
  it really does make the first one look like a walk in the park. It is much more difficult, requires 
 much more skill and is so much more interesting.
  
  The fact that you are almost never alone in any of the missions eradicates that annyoing feeling 
 of lonliness that was so badly overused in the original.
  The online is "immense", with team co-op missions to improve your soldiers level in any of three 
 classes. These consist of: Soldier, Medic and Special Ops, each with their own unique ability.
 
  
  The soldiers can produce an energy field to protect themselves from fire while using the wraith. 
 The medics can heal themeselves by using the pheonix's primary fire and once enough plasma has 
 been fired, regenerate allies heal with it's secondary fire. Special ops, gain use of the marksman 
 with the special abilty to give out ammo packs containing primary fire and when the new beserk 
 ability is used, special ammo packs can be laid out containing grenades and secondary ammo. 
  
  Also, new chimera, new guns and new secondary fire on some of the original guns too. A few 
 of the new chimera include, predator drones, grims (the natural form of the grey jack) and new 
 larger chimera with shileds opening from their arms.
  
  Overall, 10/10
  almost flawless but the online can be anoying when your the only one on a co-op mission. lol
 
  
  Lefevrered
  Only the sith deal in absolutes - Obi-wan Kenobi
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: darx17
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is everything it needs to be. Big, violent, and a thrill to play. The campaign is 
 a high quality single player experience, mostly due to the variety of weapons available to you 
 from your M42 Carbine to the zombie-shredding splicer and my personal favorite the spider grenade 
 you will always feel like you can take on anything the chimera throw at you. The boss battles featured 
 in the campaign are memorable and exciting in the ways you kill these super-chimera and the moment 
 where you take down a 50 foot chimeran godzilla will leave you pumped and begging for more. However 
 the multiplayer is truly where Resitance 2 shines. A massive 60-player experience gives a feeling 
 of urgency every time you spawn in the middle of a crowded street, surrounded by bullets, explosions, 
 and flaming corpses. The best part of R2's online is the 8 player co-op which surpassed all my 
 expectations. Based on a 3-class system, the co-op dictates that you have at least 1 of each class 
 until your characters gain enough levels and weapons. On the downside during the campaign you'll 
 often find yourself counting your bullets during the numerous times you face a seemingly endless 
 wave of grims. And at certain times online games will take a while to establish due to slow connections. 
 But overall these minor difficulties barely detract from the intense gameplay Resistance 2 has 
 to offer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcart20
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:28 am PT
Review:  I loved Resistance: Fall of Man, i played the campaign through so many times, finished it on every 
 difficulty and even jumped online (several months after everyone else since i bought the game late) . 
 I seriously doubted Resistance 2 could top the amazing experience that i found of Resistance: Fall 
 of Man, but it sure as hell did.
  
  Resistance 2 looks great for insomniac, sure its not out to win any Best Graphics of 2008 awards, 
 but its graphics are definitely above average in my opinion. It sounds great, and combines the 
 perfect balance of action and fear. That was half my worry about the Resistance games at first, 
 i feared they would be more like Doom 3, just too damn scary.
  
  As well as having a pretty kick ass single player campaign (albeit a little short) Resistance 2 
 boasts a great class based co-operative campaign, unlike anything I've ever seen in a FPS. The 
 competitive is also tonnes of fun. Normally I'm not that interested in gunning down randoms from 
 across the sea but something about Resistance 2's amazingly fast paced action made me wanna come 
 back for more and more, enough to make me wanna get the trophy for 10 000 kills in ranked online 
 matches (which took a fair amount of play to achieve) 
  
  Almost forgot the story. Resistance 2 brilliantly sums up a lot of the mysteries about the Chimera, 
 their origin, their species and their past, and ends with a bang... literally. The ending was a 
 cliff hanger of huge proportions, which i normally hate but in this game i loved.
  
  Overall, easily a must have for any PS3 owner, right alongside Crysis as my favourite game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rajsingh12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:48 am PT
Review:  Resistance was to the PS3 what Gears of war was to the Xbox 360, so it had really high expectations. 
 The game proved to be a hit and sold over 2 million copies and racked in great reviews as well. 
 This time Insomniac games are back with their second offering, a direct sequel to the game, simply 
 named Resistance 2 and its awesome. The game is way better than the first and more feature rich 
 as well. Insomniac has set a new benchmark for themselves, delivering a solid title which reflects 
 on today's demands by gamers, quantity and quality, they want games to do more and do better. Read 
 on to know more about the game and why it should be on your list this holiday season. Let me divulge 
 into the single player details because I am sure there are many who bought this game to see what 
 happens to the chimera infected world. The single player plot is very simple and stale, the same 
 aliens invade the earth - America sends troops to save our lives, you know stuff that Hollywood 
 has survived on for years. So basically, our hero aka Nathan Hale couldn't get rid of the Chimera 
 in the first game and now has to join a new group of special soldiers called the Sentinels. The 
 Sentinels are a group of soldiers who are immune to the Chimera virus, a virus that turns humans 
 into ugly-yellow-eyed aliensSo the sentinel have a huge responsibility of eradicating the chimera 
 from US soil, and your character Nahtan Hale is a part of that group, which is constantly on the 
 move, engaging hordes of chimeras and taking control of key locations. The single player is well 
 designed with different locations, and the right amount of surprises. The level design varies from 
 a dense forest to the insides of a huge chimera battleship, keeping things fresh and interestingThe 
 weapons in Resistance need a special mention, as they are quiet unique. It's not a surprise as 
 Insomniac are developers of the hugely popular Ratchet and Clank series, and somehow I feel the 
 same is reflected in Resistance, in terms of weapon design. There is the basic but powerful Carbine 
 rifle, which shoots under-barrel grenades. Then there is the Bulls-eye, a crazy weapon that lets 
 you tag your enemies, so your bullets follow the enemy. Also, there is the Auger, a weapon that 
 can shoot through any solid surface and so on. My favorite crazy weapon is the Magnum Pistol, a 
 highly powerful 6-round pistol where the bullets can also be exploded via secondary fire. The weapon 
 design is truly exceptional and although it may not appeal to the purist, its still amazing fun. 
 The single player is much better than the first one, it has more enemies, huge boss battles, plays 
 at a solid frame rate and offers long hours of chimera killing. The Multiplayer can be broadly classified 
 into Co-op and Competitive. In co-op, you play with up to 7 other players online, choosing one 
 of three available classes -- Solider, Medic and Spec Op. The co-op campaign follows a different 
 campaign, set in the same universe. You get to play alongside other players from all over the world, 
 against the Chimera, with three different classes to explore. The co-op mode is a great addition, 
 it offers many hours of co-op fun along side other players, and it changes depending on the number 
 of squad members. The game will put more enemies on screen if the player count goes up. There is 
 clan support and an excellent match-making system. The competitive mode has various classic modes 
 like deathmatch, team deathmatch, CTF and Skirmish. The game can be played by up to 60 players 
 at the same time, without noticeable lag. It's amazing how the game handles 60 players so smoothly, 
 even on simple connections we are so accustomed to in India. The 60 player games are designed with 
 objectives in mind and split players into groups, so don't worry about being overwhelmed with bullets. The 
 visuals are on par with the best in the market due to the highly polished Insomniac Engine
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: caboose84
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:01 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, great story, great gameplay, great weapons, enemies, enviornments and great 
 multiplayer.
  You are Lt. Nathan Hale, one and only surviving of 1,200 US soldiers sent in to help out the troops 
 in Britain I believe (never played the first so bear with me) .
  This game picks up right after the first with Hale walking through snow and being picked up by 
 a group of soldiers in a helicopter. You later find that these soldiers are part of a special ops 
 group called the Sentinals and like you, are infected with the Chimeran virus.
  Throughout the game, you encounter beasts that tower you, such like the Kraken, Leviathen, Queen 
 Spinner, and the deadly Chimeran leader, Daedelus.
  You have access to a wide veriety of both Human and Chimeran weaponry like the Carbine, Bullseye, 
 Auger, Marksman, Fareye, LAARK, and Magnum.
  The multiplayer is fun but can be annoying at times. You can choose any weapon from the campaign, 
 unlock new armour, faces, outfits, helmets, accessories, guns and berserks. This game is great 
 so if you're looking for a good game to buy and haven't gotten this yet, it's a sure buy. I highly 
 reccomend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, simply amazing is pretty much the way to describe this sequel. They took everything that 
 was cool about the first Resistance and amped it up and threw in some improvements. Although they 
 did that they took out a couple of minor things I enjoyed from before. Any way you slice it Resistance 
 2 is a fantastic game.
  
  Story -- The struggle continues, but this time on a larger scale and on our home turf. Which is a 
 breathe taking experience in itself. As some people may know the only war that was fought in America 
 has been the civil and revolutionary wars. So even though this is an alternate take on World War 
 2 era it's good to see you fight somewhere that hasn't been touched in gaming namely America. You 
 continue the mission of Nathan Hale (whom I can't figure out if he is a Sergeant or a damn LT if 
 you look at the first game they call him SGT, but he wears LT rank) who is now a part of an elite 
 team of half breed Chimera / Human fighters. The Chimera attack has advanced from Europe to our 
 home turf and things are looking mighty bleak. While this is a good back drop I found myself caring 
 more about Nathan in the first game than in this one. Partially because they took out the narration, 
 and partially because HECK they don't bother covering how things have come to the point of no return 
 in a short time. Also the dialogue is lack luster, I only remember Hale uttering a few lines in 
 the first, but he talk more in this one and I could care less. Story is a so so thing to me in 
 this game. Oh unlike other games this one has two campaigns which are great and not only that, 
 but the second is designed for multiplayer entirely. WOW!! Great!!
  
  Graphics -- They are great, but can't compare too many of the recent games on the PS3. The lighting 
 is better than in part one. You have more of a weighted feel when battling. You can feel the shots 
 you fire off when you hit an enemy. They clutch the body parts they are hit in and the fire fights 
 look very intense. Although the rag doll use is kind of overused I think. 
  
  Sound -- Keeps a nice thumping pace with the music and comes in at the right times. Although there 
 is voice acting and the actors them self give a decent performance the script or written dialogue 
 is so drab and unforgiving. It's hard to give a good performance over the dribble that is put before 
 these actors. There is a radio show that is being put on while you fight and when you pass by a 
 radio you can hear it. This show brings more life to the game than anything other sound bite does. 
 The DJ describes what goes on from his point of view in his studio and is more than believable. 
 He also does a good job of explaining some things that have happened in the game its self. So you 
 kind of have to piece things together by listening to him. Outside of that the guns sound great 
 and are believe able.
  
  Game play -- It hasn't changed much from the first game and nor does it set the bar for FPS games. 
 You run and gun taking out enemy Chimera on your way to the end of the game same as Halo, Gears, 
 Half life, and so on and so forth. There aren't many shooters outside of games like Bioshock and 
 Dark Sector to name a few that handle battle in a different light. So when people complain about 
 these games it's pretty safe to say you should know what you're getting into when you but these 
 games. You can take cover which sucks, but in some cases you don't need to. Wave after wave of 
 stupid, or brave (however you want to look at it) Chimera just run at you. It is fun to blast them 
 as they charge forward. Some Chimera Soldiers though are quite smart and tough and hide, take cover, 
 and flank. To put it short its fun, but there isn't anything new to see here.
  
  Online -- Here is where most of the PS3 Shooters really shine with its large scale battles and so 
 many combatants you are guaranteed to kill someone a couple of times. So there is no need to worry 
 about being a liability to your team mates. It also never seems to be unfair like in games like 
 Gears of War where you seemingly pump lead into someone only to have them kill you with fewer shots. 
 The online is a great place to game with this one.
  
  There are some cons to this game that would have put it a 10 status for me. The Narration from 
 before I mentioned, the awful script, you can only hold two rifles at a time (why??) , and a couple 
 of other things like back story. Besides those things I think the game devs achieved what they 
 said they would. PEACE
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:52 am PT
Review:  Before I had purchased this game, I was hearing about it all over the place so it caught my interest. 
 I went out and purchased Resistance: Fall of Man to see what the hype was all about, just to find 
 out that the game was only mediocre. Even after the fact though, I decided I needed to buy this 
 game and try it out because of the online matches (60 players online) and I have been amazed by 
 it. One thing that isn't mentioned on the game anywhere, is that you can go online in these huge 
 matches with two people on one console, in a split-screen mode, allowing you to play with friends 
 that might not have the ps3 or a copy of Resistance 2.
  I highly recommend this game for PS3 owners, making it one of the best exclusive shooters, next 
 to MGS4, on the system. I have played around 15-20 games on PS3 and this is by far the best game 
 I have ever played. Here is why
  
  - Graphics are the best so far in any PS3 game
  - Non repetitive (has amazing locations)
  - Tough but good boss fights
  - Good storyline with 
 amazing game play 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwitdude
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Campaign: This single player game is a good continuation of a solid single player campaign of the 
 first resistance. A solid story with a good assortment of weapons. The Superhuman difficulty can 
 provide some challenge but often you will be stuck hiding behind cover because you are almost dead. 
 The AI is nothing special and will often focus too much on you. The visuals and story can be very 
 impactful at times with all the color of the chimera taking over everywhere. In fact, there is 
 so much color in this game it makes Fall of Man look like it is in black and white. A good assortment 
 of weapons and an awesome pistol means that you are rarely longing for anything more. I wish it 
 was a little longer but it did have a good ending making one wonder where the story will go next.
 
  8/10
  
  Cooperative: I really like what Insomniac has done with cooperative. If you can get 6 - 8 people 
 in a game you should have a good time. The team really needs to stick together to survive because 
 you are no longer a superhuman. This isnt really my cup of tea; I play it occasionally ... but 
 it certainly seems like it would strike a lot of people as fun.
  8.4/10
  
  Competitive: Absolutely amazing!! I love how they tried to balance all the weapons, instead of 
 having a LAARK (rocket launcher) lying somewhere in the map that someone can dominate with. Still, 
 the bullseye, carbine, and wraith are used by the most successful players (with the Fareye and 
 Marksmen being useful in certain game types and maps) . Different maps and game types will often 
 prompt players to use different weapons (except for those who love the carbine because it is the 
 most balanced) . Maps are generally good and some I absolutely love. All the game types are enjoyable 
 although I tend to not like the 30 v 30 games. There is a great strategy choosing weapsons with 
 all the weapons vs. other weapons, beserks, and map factors to consider.
  9.7/10
  
  Graphics: 8.5/10
  
  Value:9.5/10
  I will finish the campaign for the second time and I play 
 online all the time and i will for the near future.
  
  
  If you like online shooters, while not original, Insominac did this game just about perfectly
 
  9.1/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Arkan119
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is one of the best PS3 exclusive games there is. 60 players on line? with no lag? 
 enough said on the multiplayer. The campaign is not as long as RFOM, but a good, unique one nonetheless. 
 AI is everything you'd expect, the enemies that you fight are tough, there are a good deal of new 
 enemies (although there have been quite a few that have been removed) , and the bosses are just 
 awsome. Just like gamespot said 'Resistance 2 is bigger, better, and broader -- everything a stellar 
 sequel should be' that sums it up pretty well. One last fact: many people despise the PS3 due to 
 the lack of exclusive games that it has, well, There Aren't that many games, I admit that, but 
 the ones it does have (this one, MGS4, for example) are just brilliant. So if your a fan of first-person 
 shooters, this is a game that you will absoloutley love. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beriman
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a great game that follows the events of the first game! It has gotten better in 
 a few aspects such as graphics, game play and difficulty (bigger and meaner enemy's) ! It did felt 
 like a little bit shorter than the first and I missed the weapon selection from the first! (instead 
 of choosing from the wide range of weapons from your inventory U could only carry one primary and 
 one secondary weapon what made it hard at times!) I did like the addition of new weapons and the 
 spider grenade (my personal favorites the Splicer and Gatling gun) ! Story wise it was perfect (when 
 U exit the facility in San Francisco the image of the invaders above the Golden Bridge is unforgettable) I 
 really liked what they did with it! the finish was somewhat unexpected but it was pretty realistic (note: I 
 loved the ending! it is very dramatic (Spoilers for people who do not play) when Capelli takes down 
 Hale!) I was a little bit surprised because almost every game ends with a happy ending and that 
 sometimes kills the realistic feel! I missed the offline co-up mode but overall I liked tha game 
 and the direction it is heading! This is a must have if U played the first one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: captaink24
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best FPS I have played. The single player campaign is a lot of fun, the story 
 is great, and the set piece battles make good use of all of the different weapons in the game. 
 The settings are varied and colorful, and the boss fights are a lot of fun. 
  
  Multiplayer is also a lot of fun, due to its 2 different modes: cooperative and competitive. Cooperative 
 is almost like a MMO, in the sense that you are one of 3 classes, a "tank", "dps", or "healer", 
 and take on different maps and mini bosses and a final boss. Its a cool concept, and as you level 
 up each class you gain new unlocks. 
  
  Competitive is your standard fare of game types, from death match, to team death match, to capture 
 the flag, to capture and hold. Matches are fast paced and exciting. Here too you can gain levels 
 and unlocks, though here most of the upgrades are purely cosmetic in nature to customize your character.
 
  
  I think this game is excellent overall, due to its fun and engaging game play, bright and varied 
 map design, addicting multiplayer, and strong character development. A must have for any FPS fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WanderleiSilva2
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  This game had me on the edge of my seat the entire time. Loved it from start to end. The story 
 ends leaving openings for a third in the future.
  
  The Good -
  1. Graphics and visuals are amazing with no jagged edges or disfigured shapes.
  2. Atmosphere 
 is unique and detailed giving you the feeling of almost being in the action yourself. The Chimeran 
 invading the States level is amazing.
  3. Weapons varieties are just right. They really improved the heat seaking weapon from R1.
  4. 
 Gamplay is just right. Controls didnt take long to get use to as they are pretty standard FPS. 
 The slow mo available on the sniper rifle is awsome. I like the fact that you can run, jump, crouch, 
 and peak over corners.
  5. Enemies are insane, bosses are gigantic, and full of detail and imagination. Especially Daedalus..... 
 totally original.
  
  The Bad -
  1. Story has not improved much from the first Resistance game. I think part of what made Metal 
 Gear Solid so incredible was getting sucked into the storyline. 
  2. Would be nice to be able to get in the prone position if you chose to do so.
  3. You do not 
 get to ride in a vehicles or operate any machines, like you did the first Resistance. Bring the 
 vehicles back in the third one!
  4. I dont like the fact that you can carry 4 different high capacity rifles or shotguns...... not 
 very realistic and makes the game much easier.
  5. I prefer the health capsules (with recharge per capsule) like R1, as opposed to just completely 
 refilling health. Makes the game a little harder that way......
  
  Keep in mind, a game can never be perfect.... you can always improve on something. These bad points 
 are just some of what I would capatilize on and would like to see changed for R3.
  
  I highly recommend this game even if you are not crazy about first person point of view shooters. 
 This game takes futuristic alien like environments to a whole new level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Breadcrab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The first resistance was released back during the launch of the PS3, and was one of the first big 
 hits on the console. It was one of the best PS3 games around at the time, and there was undoubtfully 
 going to be a sequel. And what do you know, here it is.
  
  The game's campaign once again puts you in the shoes of Nathan Hale, an American soldier who has 
 been infected with a virus from Chimera, alien invaders who are slowly taking over the world. After 
 helping to liberate Europe, he gets captured by Black ops, who pair him up with other soldiers 
 who have been infected with the virus. However, Nathan's virus soon gets out of hand, and must 
 battle the Chimera without losing himself as well. You may feel you've seen aspects of the story 
 in other games, but resistance 2 manages to tie them together so that their still fresh and interesting.
 
  
  The campaign will take you all around the globe, from the united states to Iceland to Mexico and 
 more. All of these locations are visually stunning and well designed. They really show you what 
 the world would be like in 1953 if aliens had invaded, and therefore makes the game highly immersive 
 and atmospheric.
  
  Of course, what would a FPS be without weapons? Fortunately, R2 has some very interesting and fun 
 pieces for your arsenal. Some are classics from the first game, like the rossmore shotgun and bullseye, 
 but the game also adds in some others, some being a revolver with detonating rounds, a gun that 
 shoots saw blades, and a sniper rifle that fires in bursts. The game also gives you these weapons 
 in the appropriate situations, so you're never fighting a titan wth a pistol.
  
  The gameplay is basically everything great about R1 and more. Some changes to the system include 
 a modern health regeneration system, the ability to only carry 2 weapons, and remapped controls. 
 Luckily, all of these changes are for the better, and in a few minutes, you'll be wondering how 
 you ever played resistance without them.
  
  But when the campaign's over, there's no need to frown, because the best multi-player on the PS3 
 seems to be included with the game. The first resistance had solid multi-player, not just with 
 its weapons or maps, but its 40-player servers. Well, that number has been bumped up to 60. That's 
 right. This is not a typo. There can be up to 60 players on 1 server without virtually any lag 
 or slowdown at all. You have to see it to believe it. The game offers the regular deathmatch, CTF, 
 etc, but the most interesting mode is skirmish. Here your team is divided into squads and you are 
 given different objectives such as capturing a point, eliminating an enemy V. I. P., and more. The 
 maps don't disappoint, and all the fun weapons are here to stay. This might just be the best multi-player 
 on the PS3.
  
  Finally, there's Co-op. Sadly, you can't play through the campaign with a friend, but you can participate 
 in specially made cooperative maps with a friend offline or up to 8 people online. Instead of your 
 normal gameplay, you are considerably less powerful, and must choose a class: Soldier, Medic, and 
 Spec ops. Each class has its own strenghs/weaknesses, and must rely on the other to survive, making 
 teamwork essential. The map's objectives and enemies are randomized, so literally no 2 playthroughs 
 are the same.
  
  The sound is good in R2. Weapons sound realistic, the headshots sound satisfying, and the Voice 
 talent isn't half-bad. Sadly, its the graphics that are the only unpolished screw on the machine 
 that is R2. The graphics don't look any better than R1. In fact, some of the textures look even 
 worse. This is especially noticeable in multi-player, where everything looks quite washed out and 
 dull. Still, having worse graphics in favour of great gameplay and more people online is a trade-off 
 most people will allow.
  
  So at the end of the day, Resistance 2 is hands down one of the best, if not the best, shooters 
 on the PS3. If you're even mildly interested in shooters, you owe to yourself to pick up this game. 
 The campaign's great and the multi-player and co-op make this more like Irresistible 2. So why 
 are you still reading this?! Go out now and get this game! That's an order soldier!!!! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: airsoftmanic
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Singleplayer: 
  The story is just a continuation of the first Resistance and sees you as Mr. Hale beating the stupid 
 out of those pesky chimera. the overall story arc is interesting..... if you can actually pick it 
 out. the boss fights are alot of fun since they go back to the good old times of caging you in 
 an arena with the boss and letting you duke it out.
  some parts are frustrating due to lack of information and on more than one occasion i had to look 
 at the gamespot guide, which i shouldnt have to do on normal difficulty. other than that its a 
 good fun playthrough.
  
  Graphics:
  amazing but what isnt now these days. though a thing to note is the detail that has been put into 
 everything. even looking out into the distance, you can still pick out trees past a kilometer or 
 so and the ships that float around are epically detailed.
  
  Gameplay:
  it plays just like any other FPS but instead of going with the old "lets be innovative" (huh, famous 
 last words) they just took the good parts and made a solid shooter. no halo-style tinker toys here, 
 every gun sounds meaty and using the Wraith (big minigun with energy shield) for the first time 
 actually made me go "holy s**t!" some of the newer weapons are useless like the bullseye MK2 which 
 is just the same as the MK1 but has blue lights instead of red. 
  
  Multiplayer:
  this is where it puts the effort in. for as long as ive known, one of the PS3's crippled legs was 
 voice chat. you couldnt talk to a friend unless it was ingame chat or the dreaded PS3 menu chat.
 
  resistance 2 heals this wound nicely with an proper from-menu party chat which actually works 
 (a little buggy but the mechanics work) and this brought me endless joy since i could actually 
 talk to my friends without having to play an online game.
  the online itself is split into two parts, co-op and competitive.
  the co-op is where you an 
 8 other players do missions that are completely different from the singleplayer campaign and the 
 whole objective is to recover stuff called grey-tech which is used to out of the game to upgrade 
 your classes. these classes are simple but work very effectively. there is the soldier who wields 
 a Wraith and is the damage dealer, the medic who (very obviously) has a medic gun which can suck 
 life from enemies and provide healing for the rest of the team and then there's the Spec Ops who 
 deals with taking out high priority targets with high power weapons and also deals out the ammo. 
 
  the competitive multiplayer i did not have much luck with though as the first 5 matches i went 
 into were complete frag-fests so i sticked to co-op. this might not be a view on the competitive 
 as a whole, my experience was less than enjoyable.
  
  overall:
  this game is worth it for the co-op alone but a solid multiplayer and exciting singleplayer make 
 this a game worthy to be on your shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:46 pm PT
Review:  I got this game on Sunday and just loved it! Amazing graphics, a smart and challenging enemy, soldiers 
 travelling with you, and oh the boss fights! I don't know why this game is getting 5's and 6's 
 - it rules!!!
  
  The only reason I didn't give this game a 10 is because of those skinny Chimera from cacoons. They 
 are in VERY large groups, run super fast, and are just freaky! But hey, it just makes em' more 
 fun to smack, slash, and shoot!
  
  My two favorites were boss fights and other soldiers:
  
  The bosses were purely amazing! The (t - rex) marauder, the swarm, the mother spinner, the 
 krakken, and of course - the 300 ft. tall Leviathan! They were challenging, yes - but fun to fight, 
 and you had a great feeling when beating them.
  
  My second favorite thing ( though it may seem weird ) , are all the soldiers you fight along with. 
 In RFOM, you fought alongside soldiers who had no skill, died quickly, and ran straight into battle. 
 But in this game, you fight with cool soldiers who are smart, numerous, and actually KILL the enemies! 
 And while I love the soldiers from team Echo and how they don't die - the numerous soldiers in 
 the black suits and masks are my favorites.
  
  
  
  So overall, Resistance 2, (and FOM) is a great game. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatslick911
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  The single player experience was really good. It was long enough and I actually found the single 
 player campaign to be alot more fun than online, which is surprising.
  
  The Graphics are pretty well done and its amazing how they had such huge bosses in these levels. 
 I did find it a bit too easy to kill most of them which was kind of a letdown. I did however died 
 alot in this game because it is just so intense. 
  
  The Gameplay is good but for some reason I feel like the guns are strong in this game. I can't 
 really describe it, imo I feel like they tried to be alot like halo. But of course this is a totally 
 different game at the same time.
  
  Sadly enough, the lasting appeal just wasn't there for me. I've played the online but after about 
 a week it just wasn't addicting anymore. It seems like whoever shoots who first is always going 
 to get the kill. The maps are ok could've been much better. I was just upset because I thought 
 the online community was going to be better than this. I figured that I wouldn't even pick up COD4 
 online anymore but it wasn't the case.
  
  I will say that the CoOp was really fun and I want to play more of that. But online wasn't my cup 
 of tea. The story was good, better than I expected it to be. The ending had me pretty mad and speechless 
 almost as if that wasn't the end of the game. Either way its a good game to play, but if your looking 
 for it to be like COD4/Socom II/KZ2 online then your going to be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingsterX
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  I'm all outa words. There's just nothing this game doesn't have.
  The single player campaign is so engaging that you can't even blink or you'll miss something or 
 the other.
  The weapons are just plain chaotic fun to use. The bosses in this game are gigantic and of every 
 type. Not just the bosses , the normal chimera are also of different types and also pretty smart. 
 This is just the single player campaign. There's more.
  So the multiplayer , hmmmm, it's just HUUUUUUGE!!! you must be wondering how big can it be? 10 
 maybe 20 players but no it holds 60 players. Now that's crazy!! plus there are a lot of modes in 
 the multiplayer itself. There is Death match with up to 20 players , there is Team Death match, 
 core control and my favorite - Skirmish with up to a massive 60 player game. 
  well nothing more to say.
  its up to you guys now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the best FPS I've played, I cant lie. The gameplay has improved so much since the first 
 Resistance, in almost every aspect. The game now relies more on realism than fun, but that's not 
 a bad thing. Based on the massive battles and the amount of enemies and flashes on the screen, 
 I'd say the visuals and power of this game (and the PS3 console) are great.
  
  While I was playing through the 3 first chapters of the campaign, I was thinking this game was 
 so similar to the first one except for the gameplay aspect, which feels more like a war game, only 
 against aliens. But then I started tto discover the Chimera secrets, and the darker side of these 
 monstrous hordes. That kept me going til I played 6 hours in a row, and I just finished the game. 
 Now I'm tired and with a big headache... (lol?) .
  
  People complain the story is confusing, but if you think that, you probably don't pay attention 
 to what the characters say. This game has the best story of all, in my opinion. When I finished 
 it, just now, I felt like I just watched a movie. A 10-hour long movie, and that was the first 
 time I felt that. Thumbs up for Insomniac.
  
  There's so much tension and fear, at some points. Another thumbs up. The game is silent, feels 
 like an actual war. And the multiplayer is AMAZING. It just offers everyything you'd want it to. 
 The great gameplay from the campaign, which is just You know. Then you fight with other 59 people, 
 I mean, laglessly. How? Did they use the One Ring to give them the power to do this? It's so huge 
 it's disrespectful to other games such as Socom Confrontation, with a limit of 32 people.
  
  Then here comes the spoilers. WARNING: IF YOU DID NOT FINISH THE GAME ALREADY, DO NOOOOT READ 
 THIS.
  
  
  
  Capelli shoots Hale after he succumbs to the virus completely, after they killed Daedalus, which 
 is the final boss. How could Insomniac do this? Not that it wasn't a good ending, but I've watched 
 the whole story of Nathan, waited til he got magic powers, just so he could get shot in the head 
 in the end? What the hell But the ending scene was just too tense. I thought Hale would blow Capelli 
 to smithereens, but apparently it was the contrary.
  
  Anyways, this is an awesome game. It's just not perfect because the offline multiplayer campaign 
 kinda sucks, but still it's a must-have for any Ps3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KrAzY_Croat
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 28, 2009 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Insomniac Games, a developer know for its Spyro the Dragon and Ratchet and Clank series, made one 
 of the greatest launch titles for the PlayStation 3. Resistance: Fall of Man took place in an alternate 
 time-line where World War II never occurred; instead an Alien race known as the Chimera set their 
 sights on the world. Resistance was a visceral and highly entertaining run-and-gun shooter, and 
 this sequel continues the trend.
  
  Resistance 2 continues soon after the events on Resistance: Fall of Man. In the apocalyptic setting, 
 where most of the world has fallen under Chimeran control, protagonist Nathan Hale gets thrown 
 in to the vastness and splendor of the narrative this time around. As Hale crawls out of the wreckage 
 of a helicopter, Nathan's gaze falls upon a machine laying waste to the surroundings. This hulking 
 scrap of metal (appropriately named Goliath) , only scratches the surface of the games premise, 
 something that can truly be called epic.
  
  After Hale destroys the central Chimeran tower in London, he is extracted from the location in 
 a VTOL helicopter. Arriving at Iceland, Hale's ride is blown out of the sky by a Goliath. Hale 
 and Major Richard Blake survive the wreckage, they learn of the terrible leader of the Chimera, 
 Daedalus. Hale soon thereafter becomes introduced to the Sentinels, a group of soldiers who have 
 been exposed to the Chimeran virus, like himself. This virus grants the Sentinels Super-human strength 
 and prowess. Hale and his men, then move to American soil, to combat the Chimera on his homeland.
 
  
  Resistance 2 is not exactly Shakespearean, but the story does well at what it does. Gone is the 
 female narrator from the original. Hale, now for the most part drives the story ahead with his 
 actions, thoughts and words. Although this story certainly won't win any awards for ingenuity, 
 this doesn't keep the campaign from being an absolute blast to play. Resistance 2's beautiful apocalyptic 
 environments are real eye-openers, particularly with large scale battles. 
  
  The Chimera are as vigilant as ever, and host even better A. I.'s. Chimerans range from hideous 
 but devilishly fast arachnids and grotesquely fanged humanoids, to hulking Goliaths and fifty-story 
 tall Leviathans. The Chimerans come in swarms; they are quick, accurate, and deadly. This makes 
 the game often difficult, but ultimately increases the pay-off when you win.
  
  To win these fights, Hale must use the environment to his advantage. Dodging projectiles and taking 
 cover when being fired upon are the basics. Resistance 2 replaces the health bar system used in 
 the predecessor in favor of the regenerative health system used in many shooters. This means a 
 few moments of cover are vital to avoid certain doom. Bullets and other projectiles have increased 
 velocity this time around, adding more difficulty in large firefights, but for the most part making 
 the experience better. One thing Resistance 2 definitely improves upon its prequel is more frequent 
 checkpoints, something that was rare and frustrating in the original. 
  
  Besides the brilliant foot soldiers, Resistance offers some of the greatest boss battles presented 
 in video games. The previously named Goliath and Leviathan are some of the most hectic, and visceral 
 shootouts players will ever experience. To help combat the Chimera, a great arsenal of weapons 
 are available to choose from. Favorites like the M5A2 and the Bullseye are still kicking around, 
 while the new mini-gun Wraith and exploding slug Magnum are plenty thrilling to use. 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man contained a brilliantly fast paced multiplayer. Vastly popular, its greatest 
 strength was the massive 40 player battles that could take place. Resistance 2 pushes the bar even 
 further, with even larger 60 player battles. Fairly surprisingly, these firefights create virtually 
 no server lag, further enhancing the online experience. Standard modes are available, the best 
 one being skirmish, where teams are divided into squads, and each squad is given objectives to 
 do. Objectives are changed sporadically, easily changing the course and pace of battle. Players 
 earn experience from multiplayer matches, a form of currency that is used to unlock weapons and 
 special abilities down the road.
  
  The campaign is fairly lengthy, but Resistance 2 offers something that sets itself apart. Up to 
 eight players can fight through a campaign of there own, battling through hordes of Chimera to 
 accomplish objectives. Playing in this cooperative mode means you won't versatile super-soldier 
 Nathan Hale. This means players must rely on each other for support. Each player must choose from 
 three varying classes; Medic, Soldier, and Special Ops. Each defends one another in different ways, 
 and this binds players into a dynamic and engaging team game. 
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man is remembered as one of the most impressive launch titles of the PlayStation 
 3. This sequel, manages to surpass the original, with a stirring single-player campaign, successful 
 cooperative mode, and epic competitive play. Resistance 2 is a standout shooter worth the effort.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sither11
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:09 pm PT
Review:  well first off all over all this game is good it delivers on almost all levels you would expect 
 with a few drawl backs. here are my critic ratings and then my explanations
  
  gameplay:10
  story:9
  bosses:7
  graphics:9
  Sound and design:10
  
  gameplay: first gamplay 
 well to start off man the online is great as it constantley is throwing out something for you to 
 achive wheter you want to play co-op or competitive you always looking to work for something you 
 will hardley feel bored and want to set this game down for a while.
  
  
  story: delivers but yet disaponits at the same time which is hard to explain but the story lacks 
 something that cant be explained im working on that now lol
  
  bosses simply disapoint some where good most were bad, as an fps i cut it slack
  
  graphics: 
 dont disappont as it looks a little cartonish you can look over that by the fun gameplay elements.
 
  
  sound and design: wow man they worked hard on this i was blown away at some parts i think it easily 
 delivers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul_GameFury
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 does exactly what a sequel needs to do. It takes what the original does right and 
 improves on it while being even more epic. It's also worth noting that I didn't particularly like 
 the first game, but couldn't put this one down.
  
  First and foremost, the weapons are the star of the game. Most good shooters have weapons that 
 stand out and make the game fun, but never before have they taken center stage the way they do 
 here. They all have a secondary fire mode that is usually used in interesting and original ways. 
 The most common gun is basically an inaccurate alien blaster rifle, but the secondary fire hits 
 the enemy with a tag that makes every shot fired home in on it (very similar to the one if The 
 Fifth Element) . This allows you to shoot enemies around corners or duck behind cover and still 
 hit them while firing straight into the air. Another highlights all nearby enemies, regardless 
 of what room they are in and allows you to shoot them through walls. This would be an extremely 
 unfair advantage, but in areas where this gun is located, a few enemies usually are armed with 
 it as well. The sniper rifle's secondary button slows time, allowing you to pick enemies off in 
 slow motion. There are too many weapons to mention here, but they are all a blast. Even the generic 
 machine gun with a grenade launcher is fun to use. Another thing that needs to be mentioned is 
 that this may be the first shooter I have played where the grenades feel right. Most games have 
 extremely under-powered grenades, but the ones in this game never felt that way.
  
  Most of the levels fall somewhere between great and epic. Just in the first level alone, you are 
 running along the ground beneath a fifty story tall enemy mech as it trudges closer to its destination. 
 The atmosphere changes from one level to the next. One could have you traversing rooftops while 
 battling a massive monster while another may have a dark, confined horror setting. The sheer variety 
 is impressive. The only one that disappointed me, unfortunately, was the final level. The second 
 to last level has you chasing down the main enemy, but ends abruptly. You are then sent on another 
 mission that is that isn't particularly original. It feels like it could fit into just about any 
 other game. Even the final battle could have been put straight into the second to last level without 
 any changes, so the final mission feels tacked on solely to extend the game.
  
  While the missions are great, the story doesn't compare. It manages to be both generic and confusing. 
 Most of the time, I had no clue why we were going to most of our objectives. It's understandable 
 since generally the soldiers in the field don't know the whole story behind their missions, but 
 from a gameplay standpoint, it prevented me from really caring about the conflict. Also, without 
 giving too much away, the ending was terrible. It would probably be on my list of top ten worst 
 endings.
  
  The graphics are amazing. All of the areas are incredibly detailed and realistic. There is almost 
 always debris and dust floating through the air. Several levels take place amid a larger conflict 
 that can be seen stretching for miles when you get on top of a building or hill. There are an amazing 
 number of massive ships and enemies that really add to the epic feel of the game. The water is, 
 hands down, the most realistic I have ever seen in a game. It is clear that this title truly is 
 taking advantage of the PS3 hardware.
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 is a great ride. It is a decent length (clocking in around eight to nine 
 hours) , but I did wish it was a little longer. The gripes I had with the story and final level 
 prevent it from being the best game on the system, but it will still have me playing for a long 
 time to come.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: maukka94
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  Iloved rfom. it was my favorite game until i saw first pictures from resistance2.
  Resistance2 is not ordinary fps its something more.
  My favorite part of this game is singleplayer 
 campaign. Iknow that allmost every game reviewer has sayed "resistance2 singleplayer campaign is 
 boring"
  I have played r2 campaign trought 5 times and im still playining it.
  Forget what reviewers had sayed they are wrong.
  i have heard that someone says its graphics 
 are bad "as they were is the first one".
  if u say gears2 have good graphics u are wrong. Its all grey in the game .its easy to do beutifull 
 game by that way. before u gears funs send me angry messages i can say that cow2 is great game like 
 the first one.
  whats my point. its that greators of resistance 2 had harder work doing the game because of its 
 corolful. btw we can not compare fps and tps which i do xD.
  Cooperative is something that u dont easily forget. its fun to play .
  competive is best what 
 i have seen in console or pc. i have never liked so much of it but in resistance games its just 
 so cool and there is so much things that can be done in it.
  So my rating for this game is 10/10. Resistance2 is best game ever made. I hope that third resistance 
 comes out in 2 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinsora
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was truly one of the best games available at the PS3 launch. So the stakes 
 were high for its sequel, Resistance 2. The good news is that it's a good shooter, and it's multiplayer 
 is truly revolutionary. However, it has taken a transition into a more Call of Duty-like style, 
 which makes it much less unique than the previous game.
  
  The story is once again pretty bland. The chimera keep on causing trouble and you play Nathan Hale 
 in a struggle to eradicate the scourge. The story still does it's job and it's really a minor setback.
 
  
  The graphics are actually only slightly better than the previous game, and it doesn't really stand 
 out in any grand way. Complaining about the graphics in the game is still pretty ridiculous, because 
 the game still looks really good, but there are few improvements.
  
  The gameplay is good and the guns have been tuned up and improved in many ways, and new guns join 
 the fray, bumping others out. Both the enemies and the player have been weakened, defense-wise, 
 and the HP-system has been replaced with the standard first-person shooter heal-system. Some of 
 the enemies have been revamped, the standard chimera foot soldiers appear skinnier and weaker, 
 while enemies like the titans, have been made into tough mini-bosses who can kill you in a heart 
 beat. New enemies have arrived, the skinny, deadly grims, and the instant-death chameleons. None, 
 however, are that impressive compared to the other old chimera. The highlight of the campaign is 
 the bosses, that have become huge monstrosities which need some quick thinking to kill. Unfortunately, 
 they are few and far between.
  
  However, the single-player campaign is not important if you just want a good multiplayer shooter 
 and on that front, Resistance 2 excels in every way conceivable. With 64 people capable of playing 
 a match together, with no lag or ugliness in any form, this game sets a standard for any stellar 
 multiplayer in the shooter genre.
  
  The co-op is a rampant success as well, harrowing and exciting, and makes you really cooperate 
 with your teammates. In co-op, you get to choose between a range of varied classes and slowly, 
 you will level up and gain new equipment and other nice stuff, so it always feels fresh and exciting.
 
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 is an enjoyable package, but don't expect the single-player campaign to 
 be nearly as enjoyable than in Resistance: Fall of Man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phtartist9
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  Watch out for those hedgehog grenades! You'll like this game if you haven't played already. Lots 
 of different weapons, terrain, and areas to check out and conquer. Some areas to figure out, not 
 difficult but fun.
  The game has a Halo feel, definitely. The boss battles are easy but somewhat annoying. I found 
 them repiitive and drawn out. The challenges felt real time in the way that they spanned large 
 areas to find where you had to be to reach your goal. This is good. Lots of surprises around corners. 
 There were plenty of different types of enemies in strength. Thats all for now. So I say this game 
 is a definite. If you have not bought it by now and want to rent it. plan on a double rental time, 
 it gives you a good many hours.
  
  The first Resistance, Fall of Man was good also, so if you want a grand old time, buy both and 
 play them both through for a long time of just out right fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coasterdude33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2009 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2, Insomniac's sequel to their popular launch title Resistance: Fall of Man, has a lot 
 going for it. Ever since the first, fans have been begging for more. Two years later, the game 
 hits almost every note the original hit while also striking a few new notes that make this a PS3 
 title that shouldn't be missed. 
  
  Graphically, this game is kind of inconsistent. Returning players from the first game will notice 
 the familiar art style making a return in this sequel. The developers have made a few welcome additions 
 that beef up the visuals for the most part. Most details are sharper, and for the most part are 
 very aesthetically pleasing. The main problem though that keeps this game from stunning at every 
 turn, is in fact the art style itself. Where as the character models are great, some of the other 
 models look almost out of place in comparison. For example some, of the cars look like they don't 
 belong and for the most part stick out like a sore thumb. The textures are also hit and miss. Some 
 are amazingly detailed while others are flat and blurry. Luckily there are a few things that makes 
 up for this minor problem. First of all, the lighting engine is leaps and bounds better than the 
 previous game. Turning on the flashlight instantly makes everything look very realistic. The light 
 casts detailed shadows that accurately add to the realism. The other great thing about visuals 
 is the sheer scale. The game constantly throws great set pieces in front of you that really are 
 stunning. The draw distance really makes the games have an epic feel to it. These additions create 
 a very atmospheric experience that is sure to stick with you. Other things that stand out are the 
 new water engine and the overall polish that the development team has put on the game. 
  
  The story presentation in the game takes a rather drastic step away from the narrated pictures 
 seen in the first game. Resistance 2 introduces fully animated "in engine" cutscenes and for the 
 most part, they are a welcome addition. The cutscenes themselves are well done and help to drive 
 the story, but some lip-syncing issues tend to draw away from the experience. Also, hearing Hale 
 actually talk may be a shock to players of the first game. Hales voice may sound a little off from 
 what might be expected from such a rugged character, but overall, all of the cast's performances 
 are very well done and add to the experience. Resistance 2 does suffer from the "middle child" 
 syndrome since the story is right in the middle of the possible trilogy that has been planned. 
 The character development is a nice touch and helps to make Hale more humanly relatable. The ending 
 level is epic in many ways and will definitely have you seeking out answers on the internet. 
 
  Gameplay wise, Resistance 2 takes its cues from the first game but the overall mechanics have 
 definitely grown up. The weapon system has been overhauled so that the player can only carry 2 
 guns at a time, this adds to the challenge in the game and makes players have to decide which guns 
 they really will need in the challenges ahead of them. The game features epic battles with about 
 50 enemies at time. This makes some of the skirmishes really feel like you are part of a war. The 
 pacing in this sequel still seems weird even after insomniac said that the specifically worked 
 on it. The game goes from no enemies to 50 almost too quick, and the Grim enemy segments can act 
 as chokepoints even on easier difficulties.
  
  The multiplayer overall is pretty solid and for the most part overshadows the somewhat short (8 
 hours) singleplayer. 8 player online co-op is fun and seems fresh almost every time due to randomized 
 objectives and human teammates. The competitive multiplayer on the other hand seems a little less 
 immersive than the other modes. The amount of ammunition it takes to kill one enemy can be a little 
 frustrating and takes any realism out of the experience. There is still fun to be had though, but 
 there are only 3 trophies in the whole lot that actually have to do with competitive multiplayer. 
 If you are going for trophies, then this is a disappointment. 
  
  Overall, this game is a solid entry to the series, and a great game for the Playstation 3 platform. 
 There are only a few things that keep it from being perfect such as the lack of local modes. It 
 wouldn't be that big of a deal if the first one had never had them, but it did. It doesn't quite 
 fill the shoes of the first game, but it come pretty close. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ajhu_2003
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 9:38 am PT
Review:  This is a old-school shooting game. The first resistance was good for a launch title. But Resistance 
 2 has take a chance to ruin the Playstation brand as not so worthy console for FPS. 
  
  Gameplay:-Shoot, Shoot, Run, Push button, Run shoot, Thrill. Goes on again and again with a old school 
 shoot and run game. The A. I is dumb. Most of the time you find enemies running towards you. Its 
 got a decent Coop gameplay which is keeps u kind a busy for a month. 60 players multiplayer is 
 worthless trying to beat Quake, Unreal standards with very bad level desgin. Overall gameplay sucks.
 
  
  Graphics:- 300ft bosses look amazing but they are even dumb than a normal enemy. No GFX benchmark. 
 Very low ploygon models. Improper animation make you feel sluggish. Very good water physics in a 
 console game.
  
  Sound:- BAH!!!! The weapon sounds the reload omg omg it sucks
  
  Value:- You get a blu-ray disc to demonstrate to your friends who haven't seen it before.
  
 
  Overall:- Worst PS3 fps. Pls don't buy it. I hate to review such a stupid game but to tell others 
 this game sucks.
  
  Gameplay:-7/10
  Graphics:-5/10
  Sound:-1/10
  Value:-8/10
  Overall:- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kratos788
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 7:42 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a fun experience that i think everyone should at least try. The campaign is fun 
 and i liked playing through it, although there isnt a too immersive story. The boss battles are 
 fun, with the exception to the final boss which was a letdown. During the campaign, both single 
 player and co op campaigns, there are some sequences where tons of newborn chimeras (which are tall 
 and grown looking) come at you by the dozens, it reminded me of a sort of left for dead type sequences, 
 which is alot of fun. There are giant chimeras that are great to take out and there are a good 
 variety of weapons to choose from. Overall i give the campaign and 8/10. Now for the co op campaign, 
 which are basically side quests which explain the story a bit more, i actually prefer these missions 
 over the competitive online mode. In co op there are 3 classes to choos from, medic, soldier, and 
 spec ops. Medic heals the team, while the soldier is pretty much the one who takes on most of the 
 action, and spec ops is second in action and provides ammo to the team. There is a sense of dependency 
 in this mode and you can play it online or off, i prefer online with 8 people, to work together 
 and complete mission to earn gray tech which is pretty much like currency to buy upgrades for yourself 
 and weapons. The co op is tons of fun and me and my friend get on and join online matches, I give 
 co op a 10/10. Now there is competitive matches, these are the 60 player battles. These matches 
 range from 60 players to lower depending on the map. Its pure fun and mayhem playing with 60 players 
 in a team deathmatch because there can be enemies at just about everywhere you look. You gain levels 
 and unlock new and stuff such as guns and equipment like in cod. I like competitive but not quite 
 as much as co op, so i give it an 8.5/10. Some flaws include the fact that i get booted out of 
 the game and onto the title screen after a match is over, so i have to go back to the mode i was 
 playing and choose search again. This only happens for ranked games though, which are the games 
 you need to play to gain experience, and it does get pretty annoying. This doesnt happen for the 
 single player story campaign though, just co op and competitive. This is an awesom first person 
 shooter and if you're into shooters then this is an excellent game that should be considered, there 
 are some flaws, although minor, Overall its great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: depauvillekid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 7:23 pm PT
Review:  A wonderful FPS for the PS3. Probably the best exclusive PS3 shooter to date. This is the first 
 Sony exclusive shooter I've played that finally makes me miss Halo just a little bit less. You 
 will really find it difficult to put down the controller. You will push through the campaign just 
 to find out how it ends.
  
  Resistance 2 picks up right where its predecessor left off. The Chimara have now invaded America 
 and Kale is part of a special forces team that is trying to stop the invasion. Being infected himself, 
 Kale is a bit stronger that the typical soldier. This fits in very well with the modern shooter 
 setups being used today.
  
  One thing that will amaze you is the visuals. The graphics, land scapes, and charater models are 
 all superb. Watching the invading Chimara ships come into view is one of the most amazing sights 
 in a game that I have had the opportunity to witness.
  
  No disappointments here.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jammersd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying it is a great game, i did enjoy playing it immensly but i had a few 
 quarrels with it.
  
  Firstly the good points of the game. To me there were two really good things in the game, the first 
 being the graphics. I found myself at apoint i rarely do in games, and that was in certain areas, 
 like the first time you properly go outside early on in the game, i was looking at what was going 
 on in the sky, as the images and the pictures were so sharp and realistic it was like you were 
 really looking at it, a futuristic world. Some how this game really included you in the game, its 
 hard to explain but in most games you see something big like a boss and you know it is big, but 
 don't feel it, same as seeing something on tele and then in real life.... yet in resistance 2, it 
 was like you could really feel the size of these things, one of the bosses for example is absolutly 
 gigantic and it truly did feel like it.
  The second thing i love about this game is the story, im not going to give anything away but it 
 was easier to follow than the last i think, and the cinematics for it were of an incredible standard, 
 it made the game much richer.
  The gameplay is also not too shabby, it can become frustrating sometimes as it can be difficult, 
 but on the whole it is very good and the game lasts aswell, not too short like many others.
  
  However my issue with it is this...
  They've changed the recipe! Normally when you make a 
 game and people buy the second one its because they liked the first, Resistance 1 had a unique 
 feel to it, a fast paced action game. Yet this one is totally different, resembling that of call 
 of duty. Enemies are less common and harder to kill and at the beginning of the game i almost found 
 myself leaving it due to the differnce. An example being on that on the first game, when you unlocked 
 a weapon it was added to your perminant inventory, however on this one you can only hold two weapons, 
 which i dislike personally. Also the health system is different, getting rid of the health bar 
 which i am also not fond of, im sure some of you will disagree but if you have played both games 
 you will know what i mean.
  
  Luckily enough i persisted with the game and found it to be a really good game to play, but i think 
 they could have kept the feel the same as it failed to gel with me like the previous one did and 
 i felt like i was playing a differnt series sometimes.
  
  Recommended to people that like the story to resistance, however if you play it for the gameplay, 
 do not get this game as you will be severly disapointed.
  
  ... the story was left open to a sequel, so the up and coming game will be an interesting play, 
 bring on Resistance 3.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soullreaver
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 9:50 am PT
Review:  There we have it finaly the sequel to one of the best shooters on the ps3.
  I was realy exited about this game. Ive played fall of man till the end in co op with a friend 
 of mine and it whas realy good. then the sequel came and well it was realy disappointing.
  
  At first the dark style that RFOM thit have whas gone and whas replaced with a more happy looking 
 style :S. But hey ok the graphics where still not bad. 
  I admit i dind play the whole game but after already lacking the co op what the previous version 
 had i thought well ok thats bad but it cant be worse right?
  Well it was! the mission mode (forgot how it was actialy called) was i think the biggest disappointment. 
 
  
  When i played this with a friend and when i played it also online it whas like i was playing world 
 of warcraft but then with gun! healer, tank and shooting until 9999999 bullets hit one enemey. 
 When i tryd in close range to kill 1 enmey i couldnt even defeat him he whas like super monster 
 or something. there wassent even a nice story in this also.
  
  The weapons dind feel the same way to me like in fall of man either. I ques the single player whas 
 stil a bit ok but still, i was missing that cool co op that i played in FOM.
  
  Well i ques online is the future and game developer's are more focusing on online what isnt bad 
 at all. But what is bad is that it is at the cost for the co op. I see this more and more. Sure 
 there's stil hope (Resident evil 5, Killzone2?)
  
  Anyway the game whas realy dispointing and its been a while that i played a game that aint as good 
 as the prequel. The only reason im giving it a 7.5 is because the singleplayer survives. If that 
 is all you need then the game is great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ko-b
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  Solid single player campaign, addicting co-op, and multiplayer. The game is incredible. The story 
 is slightly above average, could of had a little more substance. The feeling of desperation coming 
 from the human race trying to avoid extinction was properly done. My only complaint is the fact 
 that for resistance 2, they didn't quite raise the bar high enough when it comes to it's native 
 resolution. That is the reason i gave it a 9.5 out of 10, because it felt like they took the easy 
 route and kept the resolution at 720p...... what about 1080p? Don't get me wrong the visuals and 
 graphics were well done, but make the same game in 1080, and play them side by side, i bet the 
 wow factor woud dramatically increase! I'm just saying...... just a minor complaint. If you like 
 FPS, this one is definitely a must buy! Insomniac made a very solid game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pacificjohn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  After finishing the first game, I remember wishing in my mind that there would be a sequel. Well 
 now that this wish has come true, I can only speak highly of all the people at Insomniac that worked 
 up this game. Once I got my hands on a copy through my local video rental store, I couldn't stop 
 playing almost. Notice I did say *almost*.... for some reason, after an hour the colors of the game 
 start to give me a headache if I don't tear my eyes away and give 'em a rest. The AI was just right 
 although like many other games of this variety, as long as you are patient, eventually your squad 
 will get the guys but how fun would that be since you are supposed to be the hero? If you are a 
 fan of first person shooters and a fan of the original game, go out and get  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonderboy_46
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:01 am PT
Review:  The original Resistance: Fall of Man was a flagship PS3 launch title for Sony. The sequel comes 
 at a time when the market's most expensive system is crying out for another killer-app in the wake 
 of the astounding Metal Gear Solid 4: Guns of The Patriots. Does Resistance 2 fit the bill?
  
  Following on immediately after the end of the first game, R2 finds our hero, Nathan Hale, as 
 a squad leader in a team of elite soldiers who have all survived Chimeran infection. You might 
 expect that this means you and your team have incredible super powers, but unfortunately this isn't 
 the case and it seems like a rather a missed opportunity. Instead, you're thrown into a familiar 
 feeling, story-driven, linear campaign, where you'll spend a lot of time shooting aliens in corridors.
 
  
  While the level design may feel like a "paint-by-numbers" FPS, the weapons are where the real imagination 
 lies in R2. All of the favourites from the original return, so you'll happily be blasting through 
 walls with the Augur and firing homing bullets with the Bullseye in no time at all. Your arsenal 
 is also expanded this time around. You'll find new toys including a minigun, grenade launcher and 
 a couple of new grenade types, such as one which traps enemies in a bubble and rebounds their own 
 bullets back at them. My personal favourite was the Splicer, which launches saw blades at enemies, 
 cutting off their limbs.
  
  Of course, there's no point in having all these cool weapons if there's nothing to shoot them at 
 and R2 does a good job of throwing a ton of enemies at you. Most of them will be recognisable to 
 players of the first game, but there are just as many new ones too. These range from the invisible 
 Chameleon (which results in some very cheap deaths) , to the fast and numerous Grims, which are 
 closer to the Left 4 Dead zombies than they are to anything from the previous Resistance game.
 
  
  One of the most interesting aspects of the campaign is the way that the developer, Insomniac, appears 
 to acknowledge their own lack-lustre level design by choosing to break up the gameplay with huge 
 boss battles. These are usually a variation on you fighting some sort of super Chimera on your 
 own. You can tell that Insomniac rose to fame as a platform game developer, because the bosses 
 are almost painfully patterned, making them little more than exercises in repeating the same movement 
 and attack until they eventually fall. The biggest example of this (in more ways than one) is the 
 towering Leviathan, which has been shown in most of the game's trailers. It's a shame that destroying 
 a skyscraper sized enemy couldn't have been made a bit more entertaining! Almost all of the boss 
 fight is on rails, requiring you to run to an on-screen marker, where you will be picked up by 
 the huge monster, you then fire 3 rockets into its mouth. After this you're thrown to the roof 
 of another building and you repeat the process again. It really spoils the whole idea of it being 
 "epic."
  
  That's not to say that the game doesn't look good while you're doing these things though. The environmental 
 textures are solid enough and have improved dramatically since the first game, though they are 
 by no means the best the system has to offer. The graphics are best described as "functional," 
 in that they do their job well, but rarely will you gasp in excitement. The lighting and particle 
 effects are very good, especially in darker areas. On the other hand, the explosions could have 
 come from a PS2 game. It's a very hit and miss game artistically.
  
  The overall "look" of R2 is a familiar mix of brown and grey, but there are a few levels in greener 
 areas, such as a forest, which provide great relief from the depressing colour of the majority 
 of the game. The real disappointment of the graphics though is that the art is no-longer the interesting 
 mix of sci-fi and World War II that the first game provided. There has been a clear shift towards 
 very generic power-armoured super soldiers. In fact, the character design has become so unimaginative 
 that in cut-scenes it can be hard to tell Nathan Hale apart from Hawthorne, another member of his 
 squad.
  
  As a single-player game, R2 never reaches the quality levels of the Halo or Call of Duty franchises, 
 but it certainly has some interesting twists in multiplayer. In some ways, resistance has borrowed 
 from both those famous franchises by allowing you to rack up experience points (Halo and CoD) and 
 giving you unlockable items and abilities for levelling up (CoD) . Most of the competitive modes 
 are as you would expect for a shooter these days with deathmatch and CTF taking up most of the 
 games, but it's the skirmish mode that sets R2 apart. In this mode, up to 60 players (you read 
 that right!) compete in objective based games. To make teamwork easier, each player is assigned 
 to a small squad (as in Battlefield 2) and each squad will have its own objectives, so you really 
 feel like you're contributing to a larger battle.
  
  R2 also excels in its cooperative multiplayer, which continues the trend of big player counts by 
 letting up to 8 players team-up in a campaign which is completely separate to the single-player 
 experience. You choose your class (solider, special-ops or medic) and must rely on each other to 
 get through the levels. The solider has the largest weapon and is the primary enemy killer on the 
 team. Special-ops guys are the only ones who can supply the rest of the team with ammo and the 
 medic does "exactly what it says on the tin."
  
  The only major hitch with the multiplayer in general, is the limitations of voice-chat. Very few 
 PS3 owners have headsets and this can result in online play quickly becoming very chaotic, making 
 both co-op and team-based competitive modes something of an uphill struggle at times. This isn't 
 really a criticism of the game, but it certainly dampens the multiplayer experience.
  
  The campaign in R2 is most definitely held back by its corridors and killrooms structure and the 
 end is spoilt by one of the most dire boss battles in living memory. Overall this is a title that 
 falls short of its premise in single player but should give PS3 users a good time online. It should 
 still be played by any console gamer fond of FPS action, despite its niggling issues.
  
  Is it the next PS3 killer-app? Probably not, but this solid FPS will at least keep you entertained 
 until Killzone 2 comes along soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solidus35
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The first game I ever owned for PS3 was Resistance: FOM. I was astonished by the production values 
 and intensity of the action. However, in R2 the action picks right back up where it left off but 
 makes beautifully swift transactions between R1 and R2. 
  The addition of the sprinting ability is a perfect example of the evolution of the Resistance games. 
 In addition to new weapons and abilities, the player also has the ability to face a tougher AI 
 and new forms of Chimera!
  
  I used to play games like Halo, but after Resistance came along I haven't seen any reason why I 
 should go back to playing those games. I would really love to see some DLC from Insomniac, in terms 
 of expanded online gameplay. 
  
  The campaign is dramatic and ultimately a joy from start to finish.
  This is a must own game. 
 If you haven't played it, what are you waiting for! Go buy Resistance 2!
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PartyPhil4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 14, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  First of this game is really challenging! Thank god it is! I died at least 200 times throught BOTH 
 campaigns! This game is clearly better then fall of man and better than Gears because gears didnt 
 change anything!
  
  
  Graphics
  Are spectacular from enemies to guns to those giagantic ships they are all in rich detail.10
 
  
  Gameplay
  It is very challenging and fun the AI is brillantly smart and the weapons and the battle scenes 
 are also awesome.10
  
  Setting/Map
  First of the maps are HUGE! The places are greenland, california, ohio, even on an alien spaceship 
 and CHICAGO! Some are peacful and some are really creepy and are epic.10
  
  Bosses
  Okay there are a variety of bosses but the last giant one is the funnest ive never had so much 
 fun defeating boses.
  They are pretty hard.10
  
  Weapons
  OMG! These are better then any other game there are human and alien (chimera) weapons. My favorites 
 are the magnum which has a secondary fire after you one shot kill a guy you press R2 and he blows 
 up! And the vlicer and awesome chain saw blade shooter that is a heat seeking missle and if you 
 hold down the fire button it just spins on the gun!10
  
  Online
  OMG!!! Amazing weapons+Amazing maps= Up to 60vs60 online!!!
  It's amazing! I havent played COD 
 online ever since i got this game!10
  
  
  Bottom Line: 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jasonils247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  Campaign:
  The campaign is average. Like many FPS, you are given an objective and have to complete that objective. 
 Of course, there is nothing wrong with that. But the problem with Resistance 2 is the lack of variety, 
 where you are constantly shooting enemies and pursuing on. The enemies are great and it does take 
 you some strategy to defeat them in higher difficulties. The storyline is clear, but the ending 
 seems to conclude nothing. It almost gives you a sense that your effort to beat the game is useless. 
 The game does do a good job at tracking your stats and the graphics and scale are fantastic.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer is where the heart of Resistance 2 lies. It does a fantastic 
 job to be lag-free in its 60-players matches. There are the classics deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 while it does offer some other modes, such as skirmish. Honestly, the multiplayer have me hooked 
 onto it. Personally, I think it surpasses Call of Duty 4 in multiplayer. Lets not forget about 
 the coop, this is truly addictive and it is one of the most refined in the industry. You could 
 choose classes, Solider, Medic and Special Ops. The difficulty is just right, and it certainly 
 requires teamwork and strategy.
  
  After collecting all 39 trophies and playing the game well over 100 hours, I would recommended 
 this game to any gamer who are interested in shooters.
  
  My PSN ID is RAP_CB4, feel free to add me as a friend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tctt1000x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  Single Player Campaign:
  A lot of people didnt seem to like the single player campaign, i really dont get why? Maybe because 
 there isnt a great deal of a plot, but it doesnt need it, the story was set in the R: FoM. Its just 
 about a soldier who's been infected with alien DNA and is trying to stop them taking over the world 
 and you play as him trying to do it. Some great and challenging fighting with a great ending that 
 makes you want to play the next one (whenever its released) straight away.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Its great to see Co-Op online where you actually need to work together otherwise 
 you wont succeed. The co-op missions are challenging enough and without teamwork you do have less 
 chance of winning FACT.
  The Competetive online is also great, so many different varieties of what you want to use or look 
 like. Skins, Weapons, Beserks, Armour.
  
  An all round great game that is a definate buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMethot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 10:45 pm PT
Review:  I have to be honest, I've had this game since it first came out, and I had only played the story 
 mode, and thought it was awesome, even though the final boss fight was a little weak. I had no 
 complaints about the game, because it was definitely a step up from the first. Just the other day, 
 I was looking through my games, and realized I hadn't tried the online play. Granted, this was 
 right after playing CoD: WaW online for about three weeks, which shows flashes of the great Team 
 Fortress Classic, so it had a lot to live up to. I played around three or four rounds of team death 
 match and campaign, and it just really shows how bad the online is. I have to give the credit that 
 the levels do have a warm, inviting feel to them, even though you're fighting against giant mobs 
 of mutants, but everything else feels like developers rushed the overall gameplay. In campaign 
 mode, you can either be the guy with a gatling gun with delayed action to it, a medic who lays 
 low and heals others, or the guy who give ammo to the guy with the gun. Its crazy to think that 
 developers thought this was a cool concept and I know other games have done this, but the levels 
 are beat 'em up style, so why should their be two of three character modes that are used tactically. 
 Thank God the story mode is just that good in terms of story and gameplay, otherwise the game would 
 be awful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 12, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 gives you pleanty of pleasure as those who are familiar with the first one, this adds 
 on to the enjoyment. In terms of gameplay, Resistance 2 creates quite a package. 
  
  Firstly, the story mode campaign continues on from where the first one left off. So if you're familiar 
 with the Resistance: FOM this build's on a combination of different style of weapons, diversity 
 of enemies encountered, and a few cinematics thrown into the works. The story can sometimes be 
 hard to follow as often you will ask yourself 'why is this happening?', but generally this game 
 mode is very linear as you will come to realisation that your surroundings will guide you to one 
 particular path only. 
  
  I found that the story mode lacked consistency in regard to atmosphere. However there climax scenes 
 and a few boss battles did give some impact but other times it all felt a bit ridged. However some 
 scenes you will find yourself swamped with enemies coralling you which needs you to use different 
 tactics and strategies to overcome. On your journey you will pick up interesting mix of weapons. 
 These are useful in situations and has affect on different enemies, plus they're also fun to use, 
 such as the 'splicer'. Though by the end of the campaign you will experience the progression of 
 difficulty in obstacles, collection of the good ol' intel (if you're familiar with R: FOM) , diversity 
 of weapons, trophies, and other interesting/unintersting specs. 
  
  So now we look at Multiplayer... well this is where it get's exciting. Despite not having offline 
 multiplayer fun like in R: FOM, there are two types of online multiplayer - Co-operative and Competitive. 
 
  
  I'll start with Co-operative. Simply, this is a really great way to team-up with other players 
 online to form a solid team mix with different classes that complement eachother into working towards 
 objectives given. Three classes: Soldier (equiped with a 'chain gun' type weapon, that also provides 
 shield for team-mates) , Medic (equiped with a unique weapon that sucks energy from enemies and 
 fires health blasts towards team-mates) , and thirdly Spec-ops (equiped with a scoped semi-sniper 
 rifle gun, and also provides ammo for team-mates) . The gameplay is quite entertaining as you confront 
 all sorts of dangerous encounters, each player really needs to play like a team to get progress 
 well. An opportunity to play tactically gives you success here. Up to 8 players can play together 
 at one time in each level, which depending on how good your team is complete the level quickly, 
 or you can take forever. Upgrades of weapons, skills, and alternative weapons ensures the player 
 is rewarded for the hard work and experience points gained. you can also collect 'grey tech' which 
 is the currency to use to purchase these upgrades.
  
  The other online mode, Competitive, gives players the opportunity to experience the standard battles 
 between other players. Typical game modes of Deathmatch & Team Deathmatch is a favourite of all, 
 and Core-control (capture the flag type) , and Skirmish gives more of a objective based battle, 
 which is also worth trying. This type also allows you to pick what weapon you would like to start 
 with, a secondary 'magnum' weapon, which differentiates from the first Resistance (as you only 
 start with the same gun each time) . As many argue that there is a inbalance of weapons, you will 
 eventually find which weapons work well for you and which don't. 
  
  Also there is the ability to use 'beserks', which gives you the upper hand in situations on the 
 battlefield. They are special powers you use over a short amount of time, which you earn each time 
 you get a certain amount of experience by killing opponents or completing objectives. To get maximum 
 effectivness out of these besereks, they must be used strategically. The more you level up your 
 player the more beserks you unlock, plus different body accessories to customise your characters' 
 appearence (for both Human and Chimeran species) .
  
  The 60 player limit creates an awesome atmosphere of kills, thrills and spills, however I prefer 
 to play in a small group. A good diverse list of maps to play on, and the option to play in clan's 
 (groups of people you consistently play with) always ensures you get a kick out of this mode.
 
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 is a superb first person shooter, and provides a lot of entertainment 
 throughout all modes. Despite a few broken aspects you will experience throughout playing this 
 game, it does offer great value for any first person shooter fan out there. Once you're done with 
 story mode, multiplayer can get quite addictive at times! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 2:25 am PT
Review:  The first Resistance game was the one I bought alongside my PS3 on launch date. Since then I've 
 played it three times - not because it's such an extraordinary game but rather because it was huge 
 fun to shoot your way through the campaign with a buddy in co-op. When I heard that Resistance 
 2 won't feature such a co-op in the SP-campaign I was quite disappointed. But luckily the game 
 improved a lot in comparison to its predecessor and is now in many ways actually extraordinary!
 
  
  First of all: the graphics. Resistance 2 offers extremely detailed surroundings with sharp textures 
 and great effects. Especially the often artistic way of lighting the levels stood out. This time 
 the graphics engine also had more chances to distinguish oneself because the game had a lot more 
 settings than the first one. The player shoots its way through forests and deserst, huge and destroyed 
 cities, small villages and of course the Chimera spaceships - all of them with great atmosphere.
 
  
  But the level design isn't the only thing where Resistance 2 showed a great amount of variety. 
 The game continued the series tradition of extremely cool weapon design. With a huge and futuristic 
 arsenal at your disposal every enemy can be killed in another spectacular way. Speaking of enemies: 
 The creatures you encounter in Resistance 2 obviously have their seeds from several alien mutation 
 because you fight against a lot of different enemy types which really makes the game diversified.
 
  
  But there are also downsides to this explosive PS3-exclusive. To talk about the story would be 
 kinda difficult because there's not a lot to talk about. And most of all, Resistance 2 has a really 
 hard level of difficulty. The game throws so much enemies at you that you are simply overstrained 
 in a lot of situations. I consider myself as a good FPS-gamer on consoles and I had some moments 
 where I became so frustrated that I turned off my PS3.
  
  Anyway the game is great fun during 80 percent of the game due to great technical achievements, 
 an intense atmosphere and great variety of level-, weapon- and enemy-design. Plus an awesome multi 
 player mode. If you're a fan of console-FPS and can't wait for Killzone 2, Resistance 2 is a must-buy! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 10, 2009 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 : The First Person Shooter of the Month! In particular, Sony's fifth or sixth-odd 
 attempt at mimicking Halo, including all the Killzones and Hazes of the world.
  
  Story : Why it's the ever popular Humans versus Aliens! Actually I'm not quite too sure what these 
 "Chimera" are supposed to be. Are they're alien invaders, a virus that infects humans, or a combination? 
 That had to have gotten those spaceships and lasers somehow. The game's explanation is a bit confusing 
 and their background isn't explored beyond "these guys bad, shoot their heads." You play as Nathan 
 Hale, an especially skilled US soldier who's trying his absolute hardest to adopt the Master Chief's 
 personality, and at least manages to capture his lack of charisma. The story's a throwaway, with 
 the one humourous bit being that characters who are standing right next to you will still feel 
 the need to communicate to you over their radio headsets. 
  
  Resistance 2 is a game that tries its damnedest to be like Halo. Like Halo, you and a squad of 
 armoured AI marines (who are mostly there for show) battle legions of aliens. Like Halo, you can 
 only carry two weapons at a time. Like Halo, your health regenerates automatically when you avoid 
 damage. Like Halo, you have separate buttons for melee attacks and grenade tosses. Like Halo, there 
 are no puzzles to solve, just things to shoot. Unlike Halo, Resistance is supposed to be set in 
 the 40 or 50s, which should make it like every other World War 2 shooter out there. But I can't 
 help but feel that the chance for some interesting, Fallout-style juxtaposition between 40s Americana 
 and war-torn chaos is blown in all but one very clever level set in the suburbs, pitting you against 
 the aliens in houses and a diner shootout. Otherwise all the levels are military bases, alien ships 
 and warehouses. Kind of like Halo. 
  
  That said, the parts of Resistance that aren'twelllike Halo, strike me as the game's strongest 
 attributes. For example, I've never seen secondary fire from weapons used to such great effect, 
 and it extends further than "this weapon also shoots grenades and this weapon can add a silencer." 
 Magnums have manually-detonated exploding bullets, the alien gun has a tracking device that makes 
 all the bullets home in on a target, another alien gun shoots through wallsokay Perfect Dark did 
 some of this first, but we don't see a lot of these ideas often. The weaponry helps keep things 
 fresh, along with a bevy of enemy types ranging from bullet-soaking big monsters to annoying zombie 
 thingys that run at you. It's amazing the difference in a battle between a giant bullet-soaking 
 monster with a rocket launcher paired with a few grunts and a giant bullet-soaking monster with 
 a rocket launcher paired with bigger soldiers who's bullets pass through walls. 
  
  I'd say that Resistance's greatest victory is that, except for one or two segments near the end 
 of the game, you never feel like you're just fighting wave after wave of enemies, even though you 
 are. Almost every gunfight feels like an exciting gunfight as opposed to respawning baddies. Supplementing 
 this idea, there's no clich gun turret sequence or vehicle sequence, the game one consistent stream 
 alien cyborg scum interfering in your path from Point A to Point B. The Campaign is about 7 hours 
 long, which is long enough, as the experience admittedly gets weary near the end and the final 
 mission in particular feels like a massive dud. Actually, there are few moments in the campaign 
 that stick out of my mind in memory so the game won't leave any kind of lasting effect on you, 
 but I enjoyed it while it lasted so it's a good way to kill a week's worth of gaming. 
  
  There are two separate multiplayer components and they all fall under the blanket of what is quickly 
 becoming my least favorite new trend in shooters; grind-based multiplayer. Not that any shooter 
 will call it grind, it may be "perk-based" or "class-based" but it's grinding, like you grind in 
 an online RPG. Even when you shoot enemies, every bullet makes an experience point number appear 
 above the enemy's head, as if you were playing World of Warcraft. 
  
  Competitive multiplayer has all the usual modes, deathmatch, capture the flag, etc. On paper, the 
 game boasts about being able to have 60 players on a single map, but I struggled to find any game 
 that had more than 15. Otherwise, the plague of perks strikes here too. I'm always going to hate 
 the idea of the game giving competitive edges to those playing for weeks on end over someone who 
 just wants to kill a few minutes every now and then, and the problem seemed to strike me as worse 
 here in Resistance than it did in the Call of Duty games. 
  
  On the other hand, Co-operative multiplayer holds up surprisingly well. There's an original set 
 of levels designed solely for co-op, even if there's little in the way of story to hold everything 
 together. You choose one of three classes; soldiers have big guns and shields to protect people, 
 medics drain enemy health and use it to heal teammates, and special ops people have long range 
 scopes and give people ammo. It's easy to keep track of when allies need help, even without a headset 
 (and it seems nobody playing a PS3 online has one!) and there's a considerably frantic pace in 
 keeping track of everything going on. You're still fighting waves of enemies, but in spite of the 
 repetition and HEAVY borrowing from MMORPGs, it's still a unique twist in its own right.
  
  If you asked me to create a lineup of the top ten first person shooters of 2008, number 1 would 
 be "screw that, nothing this year touched Call of Duty 4" but number 2 would be Resistance 2. Though 
 how much you consider it to be worth your hard-earned dollar depends on how much you value your 
 co-operative multiplayer experience, and how badly you need to shoot aliens this very weekend. 
 It's enjoyable but forgettable, the first person shooter flavour of the month that impresses all 
 with its technology and not too much else, and is only on the collective consciousness of gamers 
 until the next big shooter is released. And Killzone 2 isn't too far away. 
  
  Pros : Challenging on the normal difficulty.
  
  Cons : As such, you'll die often, and the death 
 melody gets old FAST.
  
  3  stars
  
  I am SO not looking forward to Killzone 2. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerpoopy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 6:10 am PT
Review:  Here comes Resistance 2 , the sequel to FOM . The campaign in Resistance 2 has uninteresting characters 
 and a bad story but the gameplay and multiplayer with the all time god-like addictive co-op makes 
 the game very awesome. The campaign in Resistance 2 has tougher enemies that makes it a challenge 
 and the boss fights are HUGE , BIG chimera that really impressed me. The multiplayer in resistance 
 2 is good , but not as good as cod4 but nearly there. It can hold up to 60 players online with no 
 lag at all. There are modes like the 2 all famous team deathmatch and deathmatch . There are also 
 skirmish and core capture . The co-op is really intense as u go up to 8 players , fighting alot 
 of chimera and its up to u and your teammates to help each other to get alive . The bottom line 
 for this game is......... PLAIN fun. Although the multiplayer has some error and u could not play 
 online. But not all the time 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ze_Common_Cold
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 9, 2009 6:46 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the 1st games I got for the PS3, and let me tell you even though it didn't quite 
 meet my expectations, it was still top-notch in it's own right. The story may seem a tad motonous, 
 and a little boring but I did get into it near the middle and found it pretty interesting, but 
 I had a feeling playing the 1st one would make the story a little more interesting. Shooters really 
 don't need too much story however, it's the gameplay that matters. Resistance 2 shines here, with 
 great level design and tight controls. The Chimera run in, guns a blazin, but they come in numbers, 
 making you think before you decided to run in melee them all. The level design and atmosphere is 
 splendid, giving you an eerie 1950's layout, much like Fallout 3. I did prefer the health system 
 from Resistance 1, as it was unique, and really was a breath of fresh air, but this is something 
 we all know and love. I also liked the co-op campaign greatly from R1, as it was just plain good 
 fun, but I suppose it didn't flow with the story well (most points in the game the main character, 
 Nathan Hale (very boring by the way) is often alone in story missions) . Battles are intense, and 
 some enemies might be a little, well, scary. (Chameleons scare the **** out of me) . Boss Battles 
 are epic, but a little on the easy side.
  
  This game defiently would not be as good as everyone would imagine if it wasn't for online mode. 
 This is what seperates it from other PS3 shooters. 60 player matchs (boy are those fun) , with various 
 modes like DM, TDM, CTF, and Skirish, which is a game where teams are divided to perform random 
 goals, an example being protect a player, where one team must not alow a person on their team to 
 die, and the other teams must kill him.
  
  Resistance isn't what you call "number one". It gets the best elements of most popular shooters, 
 then mixes them up in a pot. However, all these elements can be a little generic at times. But 
 so what. This game rules. Probably the best exclusive shooter on the PS3, hands down, and a really 
 good shooter of this gen. Pick it up, whenever you can if you are a shooter fan. I would give this 
 game around an 8.8 or 8.7, but I just rounded it up. :p 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zxssded
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2009 3:03 am PT
Review:  Some might disagree about my review right now but, thats just what i feel. we have the humans, 
 aliens and the...... weird things that burst out of the giant eggs (flood) i know theres no lightning 
 sword or anything but, the gameplay is alot like Halo.
  
  Good: Amazing eight-player cooperative mode, the change from a super human dude who can kill bsically 
 anything in the single player and having to change your gameplay style is a great. Large, vividly 
 detailed environments, from the 1st level's water to the last..... building/ship interior. Smart, 
 tough enemies and huge, huge bosses, YOU GET TO KILL A FREKIN SPIDER!!!!!! (also get an achivment 
 which says bug killer) Lag-free online matches with up to 60 players.
  
  Bad: Tons of wepons but most of them are useless. Only wepons i used (not counting the end) was 
 the carbine, Aline version of carbin and the alien gun which can shoot through walls. The difficulty 
 might be a bit tough for some. NOT COMING OUT ON PC. I THINK ALL SHOOTERS THAT COME OUT ON CONSOLE 
 THAT DONT COME OUT ON PC IS JUST STUPID. The story is...... stupid. you can see it coming a mile 
 away,
  
  To summarise, this game is good, not great, nor crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyed
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 2:05 pm PT
Review:  After playing the first Resistance game I kept asking myself the same question, "Was that a great 
 game, or was it the same game I've played thousands of times before?" It was a very fun and challenging 
 game, but I couldn't help but think there should have been more. The graphics were pretty poor 
 for a next-gen game but the game was challenging and was played by a huge number of people. There 
 was obviously going to be a sequel, but would it have enough new features to make it a great PS3 
 exclusive?
  The biggest problem of the first game was that the graphics were poor. There was no spark and the 
 British locations were spot on, but they were dull and boring (living here all my life it was definitely 
 spot on) . The setting for the sequel was a great choice. The locations on offer, especially the 
 forest environments, look great and the lighting effects are fantastic. The game lacks a certain 
 charm though when it comes to graphics. The game, especially the cut-scenes, look cartoony and 
 at times the game doesn't fell next-gen. The sound is great with shots flying about at every turn 
 and the lack of sound during some of the more terrifying moments is fantastic.
  The game plays a lot like the first game but it runs a lot more smoothly. It's still fast-paced 
 and terrifying at times, but shooting feels more solid. The mapping of zoom to L1 was a great choice 
 as the game becomes a lot more fluid and fast-paced. The fighting is intense at times and it does 
 feel like there is no chance of survival but the glorious choice of weapons will help in any given 
 situation.
  Resistance 2 is, in my opinion, the best FPS available on PS3. If you are a FPS nut then I recommend 
 you get this game straight away. It's atmospheric, intense and can be a real b***h sometimes. This 
 is FPS greatness. Bring on Killzone 2!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireFox67
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is one of the best FPS games type out there...
  In this sequel of Insomniac FPS game you get a lot of great experiences, but most of them are in 
 the new multyplayer options.
  But if you get tired of the great story-line with great graphics, sounds, efects and the new Boss 
 Battles, you can enjoy more of this game in the new multyplayer mods that Resistance2 has to offer 
 you. 
  First you have a new multyplayer co-op with 1 to 8 persons with 3 classes to choose: Soldier; Spec 
 Ops and Medic.
  But Insomniac gives other multyplayer options to play if you get tired the new co-op game, and 
 you can enjoy epic 60 person battles, with different types of match!
  So, if you are looking for a FPS game that has a good story-line and multyplayer's options, look 
 no further because Resistance 2 is one of the best FPS games in the market with thousands of hours 
 of pure entertainment!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowRaider087
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 11:35 am PT
Review:  Its a good game. I would say to rent it first, and find out if you like it or not. The online is 
 really fun. The campaign is good, but the first one was better. They changed it and made it more 
 like Call of Duty, like you can sprint your health regenerates and when your hurt to much the screen 
 becomes red, and you can only carry to guns at a time. I would say to get the first one first. 
 It will make more sense and it is better. I think the ending was good but he shouldn't have gotten 
 shot he should become that alien thing and then they could have made a third one and in that one 
 you could have been an alien for like half the game and cappelli finds you with the doctor and 
 the doctor like heals you somehow and then you finish the 3rd one as a human and the humans start 
 to win and than they could have made a fourth one as the humans winning and possibly win the battle. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kweeni
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 5:20 am PT
Review:  i got the lbp bundle for christmas 2008, i actually wanted to get resistance 2 bundle but it was 
 sold out and so was motorstorm 2 bundle. but thankfully i was allowed to chose another game for 
 free and i picked this one. got home, connected everything and started to play (and yes this review 
 is kinda late cus i have this game for more than a month now but whateva lol)
  anyway here is my review:
  
  singleplayer: its not bad but could have been a bit better. story 
 is not long but also not short. the graphics are nothing special, kinda average but the game looks 
 really awesome when you look up and see those flying space ships or whateva those things are, so 
 the game does have its good looking moments at times. the boss fights could have been bit more 
 challenging, lets take the leviathan (that big building size walking thing) as an example. while 
 its visiually great, gameplaywise its verry easy to beat. same goes to other bosses, heck sometimes 
 i found fighting those titans more challenging lol. but aside from that the singleplayer is fun 
 and actionpacked
  
  multiplayer: just awesome, 60 player battles with little to no lag. its really fun, one of the 
 best to date (imo) . plenty of maps, different game modes, so yh just alot of fun. not sure what 
 else i should say lol
  
  co-op: tons of fun, love playing it. lmao i remember a day i woke up turned on my ps3 and started 
 playing co-op for the entire day, just couldn't stop, to much fun lol! there are diffrent levels, 
 doesn't really have a story, its just completing objectives. but its really fun, it can go up to 
 8 player
  
  this was my resistance 2 review. looking forward to getting the first one some day, will also get 
 retribution for psp
  (btw lbp (little big planet) is lots of fun 2, don't underestimate it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arconic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is an awesome FPS game with breath-taking graphics and sound effects. The difficulty 
 is well tuned and it is a game that is friendly to any newcomers. The story is well explained and 
 brief in the game along with good visual cutscenes to help. The only sad part of the story is that 
 the game has terribly uninteresting character where any the death of any of them would cause me 
 to sayOh, they died. Damn. OK team get your lazy asses back on the mission." Nevertheless the 
 amazing battles never lose their momentum as you fire your rifle through hordes of chimera. The 
 graphics of the game are amazing. Great textures with all detail poured in... beautiful. The amazing 
 explosions of chimera looked astounding with all those meat insides filled with detail right down 
 to the last muscle string. The sound effects are great, simply great. The sound of your teammates 
 calling for help, your gun firing rounds upon rounds of ammunition, while you hear your grenades 
 explode and maim and kill al those near it, not to mention the sound of gushing blood fleeing from 
 all those chimera. With a tad bit of fear thrown in a level where your in plain daylight and then 
 you have to enter a house were it is almost pitch black and a chimera could be standing behind 
 any corner. The overall gameplay was very fun and excitingwith plenty of weapons to go through 
 and plenty of action and enemies to kill. The multiplayer expirience is awe-inspring. With upto 
 60 players per match and a separate campaign to play cooperativel. All in all, Resistance 2 is 
 an awesome game that will leave you wanting more once you've finished it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: King_Faisal_94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:46 am PT
Review:  Where do I begin. At first my impressions of this game were very mediocre. The graphics were terrible 
 and the gameplay felt out of place. Then I bought the collectors edition, because my friend told 
 me to give it a chance. So, I popped in the disc and I was blown away by easily one of the best 
 if not the best gaming experience of my life (the other being Bioshock) .
  
  *GAMEPLAY* 10/10
  I can summerise this in one word, MASSIVE. The guns are innovative and well 
 balanced to perfection. Using a combination of human and chimeran technology you will never be 
 left in the dark. The grenades are very destructive I especially enjoyed using the spider grenade 
 while being in a pinch. The control layout is very well thought out, giving you an upper-hand in 
 combat. Most enemy's are fun to kill, but some make you want to throw your controller at your little 
 brother, such as the Chameleon. OH god, an enemy that can become invisible and kill you in one 
 hit what kind of stupidity is put into that. Another is the fish chimeran (forgot its name) . It 
 swims around and is impossible to kill? The second you jump in the water even if its far away your 
 looking at an instant death. The boss fights are simply EPIC. From the kraken to the leviathan, 
 you will have plenty to deal with. Now time to talk about my favorite level. CHICAGO. You find 
 yourself surrounded by fellow SRPA troops fighting hordes of chimerans. With adrenaline pumping 
 throw my body at maximum output this fight truly made my declare this the besy game I've ever played. 
 It felt like a true war. I wish more FPS games had these kind of battles.
  
  *GRAPHICAL PRESENTATION* 8.5/10
  While the graphics were fairly mediocre, I still give this an 
 8.5/10 mainly because of the level design. No two levels are the same. It is just unbelievable. 
 From the lush forests of Iceland to the swamps of Louisiana you'll have plenty of eye candy.
  
  *STORY+CHARACTERS* 8/10
  Now some people call the story pathetic and the ending a crime against 
 gaming. I completely utterly disagree. This story doesn't leave you hooked, but it's nice not to 
 have a horde of cutscenes (MGS4) and to have a horde of gameplay. I found it light and well balanced. 
 The ending was very well thought out. It sets the stages for an amazing sequel, such as Assassins 
 Creed's ending. It also shows how the chimeran virus can even destroy the greatest of soldiers 
 and mankind. I look forward to the novel as well as the comic. So, why did U knock off two points. 
 Mainly because of Capelli. Capelli is basically the guy who fancies himself a badass, as well as 
 the devs making him taller than Hale (Hale looks up to him) combined to make me hate him. I really 
 didn't like him. All the other characters were very lovable, especially Warner and Hale. Warner 
 is a family man, who desperately seeks to contact them, sadly their death is implied. Hale then 
 gives him some hope.
  
  *MULTIPLAYER* 9/10
  While I was extremely put off by the fact that there was no co-op option in the linear campaign, 
 Insomniac found a way to ease the pain. With a very well-done non-linear co-op option that you'll 
 easily get 100 hours of gameplay out of that. The classes in this mode are all well-balanced and 
 the ribbons are fun to get. The character you play as can be customized as you play. Whether it's 
 an armor or weapon upgrade you'll have plenty of fun showing off. While I enjoy the co-op the competitive 
 gameplay isn't nearly as fun. The guns aren't as balanced as the co-op and campaign and you can't 
 pick up respawn guns like in Resistance FoM. The deaths often feel cheap and lackluster.
  
  That all being said I suggest all of owners of PS3s to go pick up a copy preferably the collectors 
 edition (you can find it cheaper than the standard even) . If you don't have a PS3 this is one of 
 the best reasons to buy one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roordsy87
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  After viewing many trailers and gameplay videos I thought I just had to but this game. I played 
 all week, beating the campaign on normal difficulty and earned a fair rank on online cooperative. 
 But after that week, the game just became a dust collecter. Heres why:
  -the graphics arent as nearly as good as i had expected
  -low res textures like fire and some 
 enemies are discusting
  -blowing up into bits of low res guts by a shotgun or a grenade is a dumb idea
  -the story isnt 
 that interesting
  -the weopans can get annoying
  -it takes atleast 10 good shots to kill a guy in competitive
  -only 4 game modes of competitive
 
  -isn't alot of character customization
  -beserks are often pointless, especially in the low ranks
  -the online maps aren't that great
 
  -the fast paced competitive can be great, but can also just be a grenade fiasta
  -no co-op campaign
  -no vehicle levels 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dolphinetrader
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 4, 2009 11:24 am PT
Review:  In resistance 2, you play as Nathan Hayle, the last remaining U. S soldier from the war against 
 the Chimera in England. The story begins by you and a team of soldiers being sent to Iceland, where 
 you painfully discover that the chimera have already attacked a military facility. You later travel 
 to many different locations all over the world to battle your way through seemingly endless tides 
 of chimera. The final mission puts a great end to this game, and will keep you begging for more. 
 Resistance 2 has everything a solid shooter game should have. Great graphics, plenty of weapon 
 options, exciting campaign story, and huge online options. The singleplayer campaign is a bit short, 
 but the multiplayer gampaign offers three classes of soldiers, and each can be trained up to a 
 rank of 30, allowing for a lot of playtime. All in all a must have for playstation 3 players! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 3, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  When Resistance Fall of Man was released back in 2006, it hinted at the potential of the PS3. Gorgeous 
 graphics, stellar multiplayer and a captivating story gave the PS3 its first hit at launch. Two 
 years later, Resistance 2 has finally crawled out into the sunlight but will this sequel cement 
 a legacy or will this resistance be crushed?
  
  Resistance 2 starts off where Fall of Man ended. Players once again fill the boots of Sergeant 
 Nathan Hale, the sole survivor of the Chimeran scourge that overran Europe, and take up arms to 
 push back the Chimeran onslaught. After being captured by SRPA, the Special Research Project Administration, 
 and taken to their Iceland Base, Nathan finds the Chimera moving to invade the USA. Joining SRPA's 
 elite squad of Sentinels, Nathan and other like him, travel around the US engaging the Chimera 
 at key locations throughout the country. 
  
  As plots in video games go, Resistance 2 isn't winning a Pulitzer Prize anytime soon but what it 
 lacks in depth and flare it makes up for by the sheer awesomeness of what happens on screen. Not 
 a minute goes by through the games 10 hour singleplayer campaign that your brain isn't jumping 
 up and down screaming at how epic the last set piece was. Very few games are as gratifying as Resistance 
 2. You'll find yourself putting the controller down after some fire fights just to catch your breath 
 and some boss fights are so intense that you start sweating and getting edgy just trying to figure 
 out how to deal with these gigantic monsters.
  
  Come to think of it, gigantic is a rather perfect way to describe the game as a whole. Sure you'll 
 finish the singleplayer experience in a flash and only really remember that it ended with the mother 
 of all cliff-hangers but once the smoke settles and the aliens beaten back, Resistance really open 
 its doors to a world of blissful gaming pleasure. Its online component is truly a masterfully crafted 
 experience, with its impressive co-operative component and, once again, gigantic competitive action.
 
  
  Unlike Fall of Man, this time co-operative action comes in the form of missions that run parallel 
 to the singleplayer storyline. What this means is that even though you and a buddy can't take on 
 the Chimera as Nathan Hale and Co, you can fight alongside seven other friends in what can only 
 be described as a World of Warcraft meet Call of Duty extravaganza. Insane is the best way to describe 
 the sensation you feel as you trudge your way through the Chimeran horde online or locally with 
 friendly medics healing you and soldiers blasting away trying to make it to your next objective. 
 Add a prestige system to rival Call of Duty 4 and Resistance 2's co-op is almost the perfect gaming 
 experience.
  
  On the competitive side of things, you can look forward to 60 player online slogs. That's all you 
 really need to know. No need to worry about the magnificent skirmish mode or the titanic team deathmatches 
 or capture the flag, or in this capture the core matches. All you need to know is that you can 
 go head to head with 59 other people with little to no lag. How Insomniac did this is anyone's 
 guess but we aren't complaining.
  
  From a presentation point of view, Resistance 2 is top notch. The visuals aren't as impacting as 
 Fall of Man was two years ago but that's not to say the game doesn't look great. Some of the set-pieces 
 are jaw dropping. Walking out the SRPA's San Francisco underground base is truly a sight to behold 
 as well as the first time you see the mammoth Leviathan strolling through the Chicago skyline. 
 The voice acting matches the visuals excellences and the music keeps up with the pace of the action 
 very well. 
  
  With so much going for it, it's a shame to find Resistance 2 stumble due to its absurd difficultly. 
 Be prepared to die. A lot! Fall of Man was known for its ridiculous difficultly and thankfully 
 Resistance 2 is slightly more forgiving than its predecessor but when you consider that the game 
 throws tens of enemies at you at once, whom all seem hell bent of firing at you and ignoring your 
 fellow team mates, dying one hundred plus times on normal difficultly makes some frustrating controller 
 throwing. 
  
  If anything, Resistance 2 is an excellent game. With its ambitions of grandeur, the epic scale 
 that is presented throughout the game's offline and online components is something every shooter 
 fan should experience. The co-operative mode is the most involved and absorbing experience to be 
 found on the PS3 and its epic competitive mode is the most intense online experience around. Buy 
 Resistance 2 for its online and consider is singleplayer experience an added bonus. Oh, and good 
 luck getting the Killing Machine Trophy, that's one ridiculous trophy! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sixgears2
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  I recently ordered Resistance 2 from Gamefly and, judging from all the great reviews I have been 
 seeing, I was really looking forward to taking it for a spin. Unfortunately, I have been misled. 
 The game is not bad, but it suffers from some game-breaking issues and the production values are 
 far lower than I expected. 
  
  In terms of graphics, Resistance 2 is a mixed bag. Some of the areas look fantastic (the invasion 
 seen over San Fran is probably one of the top three most spectacular moments I have seen in a game) , 
 and many of the set pieces/monsters are amazingly detailed. Where the game falters is practically 
 everywhere else. The environments, with a few notable exceptions, are your average bland, run-of-the-mill 
 techie hallways with electric doors, see-through floors, obnoxiously shiny walls. In fact, several 
 of the levels look so distinctly like Halo that I almost forgot what game I was playing. The outdoor 
 environments are where Resistance really shines, but unfortunately there are not nearly as many 
 of these as the dull, boring base sections, and even the ones there are are often closed off and 
 feel very artificial. Add in the facts that Insomniac appears to have gone for the shiny look on 
 everything in the game, explosions look like they were ripped straight off of a PS2, and the weapons 
 look like they are shooting confetti half the time and and the game just ends up looking dated. 
 
  
  Resistance is by no means ugly, but compared to other graphical juggernauts like MGS4, Bioshock, 
 and even Call of Duty, it just isn't up to snuff. This is far from the best looking game ever made, 
 and anyone who says otherwise has either not played any of this gen's AAA titles or needs new glasses.
 
  
  Mediocre production values aside, Resistance 2 has some very significant other issues. First and 
 foremost is the difficulty. Resistance is a VERY hard game, even on the normal difficulty setting. 
 A lot of this has to do with the fact that the enemies seem to be closely related to God Himself 
 and therefore know exactly where you are even if you are completely hidden. Even if they haven't 
 seen you yet at all, they will hunt you down and they will kill you. Very quickly. A lot. And they 
 will always go straight for you, ignoring your allies' feeble attempts to fight back.
  
  This problem is exacerbated by Insomniac's decision to severely limit the ammo for any gun that 
 doesn't suck horribly, so you often find yourself left with nothing but an assault rifle that apparently 
 shoots harmless airsoft pellets at your enemies as they massacre you. Maybe they were trying for 
 a "scary" feel like you find in Condemned or RE, but this is not a survival horror game, it is 
 an action shooter. Limiting ammo in such a game is a HORRIBLE design choice, especially when you 
 are frequently forced to face off against incredibly large, angry monsters that will eat every 
 round in every weapon you can muster before they die.
  
  Of course, maybe the limited ammo and visciously omniscient enemies would be less of a problem 
 if your squad ever actually helped you out. But they don't. Ever. I think I can count the number 
 of enemies my squad killed in the single player campaign on one hand. And therein lies the biggest 
 problem with Resistance 2: it has THE WORST AI I HAVE EVER SEEN. I can't even tell you how many 
 times hordes of enemies ran straight past my (apparently) mentally handicapped comrades and tore 
 me to shreds as my allies either A. stared straight ahead as if nothing was happening or B. watched 
 without emotion as I was torn limb from limb. As an analogy, imagine playing R6 Vegas on realistic 
 or CoD4 on veteran with absolutely no help from your teammates. It sucks, it's not fun, and it 
 totally destroys any sense of immersion Resistance 2 had going for it. Note to you, Insomniac: 
 if you are going to make a game this hard, you need to make damn sure the friendly AI works and 
 works well. Otherwise it ruins the game, as it did for me in this case.
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 way a big disappointment to me. I was hoping it would be the game to pull 
 me back to my neglected PS3, but I was wrong. All it did was frustrate me and illustrate just how 
 great the other games I have been playing really are. The stellar reviews this game is getting 
 are dead wrong; I wouldn't be surprised if people were being paid to give it above a 6. If this 
 was any other game than the second installment of Sony's only real hit shooter this generation, 
 it would have gotten substantially lower scores. The fact that users are awarding it 9, 9.5, and 
 10 is beyond belief to me and can only serve as evidence that the PS3's title lineup is incredibly 
 weak at the moment. That people regard this as "the best game on PS3" is a sad fact indeed. Those 
 of you who agree with them, I beg you, go play Half Life 2, go play Bioshock, go play any of the 
 really great shooters and then play through Resistance 2 again. I bet you will agree with me when 
 I say that it is little more than an average shooter with a lot of problems. I only pray that Killzone 
 2 is good enough to remind people what a great shooter really looks like.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wavwi
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 30, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any PS3 owner. This action packed, horror thriller has the best game 
 play I have ever seen. Some are even calling it the PS3's HALO. 
  
  Single player will not disappoint you (most of the time) . The boss battles are the best (is there 
 one boss that smaller than a 3 story building?) and too help you through these massive bosses are 
 weapons like pules cannon, good for making a lot damage, or you could shoot through them with the 
 slicer V7. The only thing I can think of that's bad about it would be the story line, and how short 
 it is. 
  
  But that's only single player. Online you can play with up to 60 player! I bet you will never get 
 board on it. The only problem is that it may charge you online. But that's it.
  
  In Co-op you and 7 friends can help you through the massive missions in multiplayer. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_hated_one27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Okay, to start off, Resistance 2's storyline is awesome. A good beginning, intense middle, and unexpected 
 but terrific ending. Gameplay is challenging no matter what difficulty or level you are on. Some 
 parts of the game will take your breath away. Some parts left me on the back of my seat, while others 
 left me dragging closer to the TV. The ending really caught me by surprise, leaving me wanting to 
 play some more. Thats when the Co-op and competitive modes come in handy. Co-op leaves you and 
 other players fighting of the Chimera, which is quite fun. Competitive has you and teammates facing 
 off against other players, which is fun all around. The ability to be either human or chimera is 
 clever. The screen also changes based on what Lt. Nathan Hale, the main character, looks like at the 
 moment, which I thought was cool. Resistance 2 is an awesome sequel. Don't hesitate to buy this game. Resistance 
 2=terrific. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Adziboy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 28, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to Resistance 1 has improved greatly with a variety of modes and addictive action; you 
 can guarantee you will not put it down for days. Given a few extremely annoying sections in the 
 campaign, and other mishaps throughout the game, this is just pure fun. A lot of games try so hard 
 to get the gameplay spot on and the graphics to be nothing but perfect but Resistance, quite honestly, 
 does not do either of these things with flaws in many places; but yet still, you can't say no to 
 waves and waves of Grims (a weaker form of Chimera) or the tsunamis of little creatures that are 
 fast yet dangerous. Or even better, advanced Chimera with Augers (can fire through walls and shield) , 
 Bullseye wielding Chimera (a tagging system allowing bullets to home in on the tagged enemy) and 
 massive titans with guns that are at least 5 times the size of Hale himself.
  
  The enemies in Resistance 2 are what will draw you in the most; ranging from all the Chimera mentioned 
 above to even bigger Marauders, Stalkers and Leviathan; even swarms of flying bee-like low forms 
 of Chimera. There's no denying that the detail and animation of the enemies are easily the best 
 graphically at the moment but you can't say the same for the textures and effects throughout the 
 game which show a distinct lack of attention when the game was being developed. Providing you can 
 overlook a few below par textures then you'll have a fantastic experience graphically as you fight 
 these creatures in many different locations and with some stunning views from high towers and skyscrapers 
 which really will blow your mind. That's also another great part of the game; locations. As you 
 fight the apocalyptic beasts, you'll be lurking around Iceland, California, Idaho, Utah, Illinois 
 and more, in that order.
  
  Throughout these places you'll be fighting in jungles, tunnels and buildings, in open warfare or 
 in small dark corridors giving you limited ammo and a flashlight. The experience overall isn't 
 tremendously scary, with the initial gameplay being not scary at all and the only bits which might 
 make your heart race are the creatures jumping out at you. As you play through, the much liked 
 Weapon-wheel has been replaced by a two-gun system which is a big change, one that many see as 
 bad; there is often limited ammo and when you want to trade your primary guns (Bullseye and Carbine) 
 for a Pulse-cannon, LAARK or Rifle then you'll find yourself troubled as you try and fight the 
 wrong enemy with the wrong gun. Its useful to just stick with the primary weapons until a decent 
 gun comes along or you know you're either near the end of a level or a weapon-specific boss is 
 coming up.
  
  The campaign has done well in a variety of missions but is extremely linear; mostly linear levels 
 set-up so you will always know where to go or have the larger boss fights set in one location which 
 you will have to fight in. Even thought the gameplay, animation and graphics are nearly there, 
 you can forget the story altogether. It's quite simple really; kill enemies, escape but end up 
 being stranded, try and escape again.. repeat. You'll find every ship you try and get to blown 
 up, every doorway blocked by a large Titan and at least 1 of your comrades to be pinned down somewhere 
 so you have to miss your flight outta there and go help.
  
  But if your not a single player person or like playing a game again and again, then co-op and competitive 
 are done well, with co-op being the better of the two.
  
  Co-op is set in the same locations that the campaign is set in and features the same enemies (spare 
 a few) but you will not be playing Hale or a known character; you will choose a class out of the 
 3 available options - Medic, Soldier and Special Ops. Medics can damage multiple enemies at the 
 same time, doing low damage but absorbing the health they drain to themselves which 'charge' up 
 your secondary fire of the Phoenix (the primary gun of the Medic) which then allows you to fire 
 a healing 'blast' at your team mates or the co-op AI. These are vital in both small group missions 
 and large group missions. The soldier is the heavy damage dealer, with the Wraith (gattling gun; 
 found in campaign as well as co-op and competitive) . The Wraith takes a while to charge up but 
 unleashes hell once it is, and with a large clip you can slaughter many waves with 1 or 2 clips. 
 With the Wraith, they can also set-up a shield around them covering there front but leaving the 
 back open. This is vital for most levels considering the special-ops and Medics are weak and have 
 no other way to protect (except for the Augers shield which is too weak to be of any significance 
 when playing without a soldier) . Special-ops is the long range snip - equipped with a Marksmen 
 (a semi-like-automatic sniper) which does high damage and fires in bursts (similar to M16A2 if 
 you've played COD4) but needs to reload more often with a much smaller clip that the soldier. They 
 can also fire electric orbs which travel in a straight line in the direction of the cross hair 
 at the time of fire and will damage all enemies in the path until it hits an object or reaches 
 its max distance. They're main priority will be the ammo they can drop, instead of grenades, which 
 supply Medics with secondary fire bursts and Soldiers with ammo and shield charges - also gaining 
 1 ammo pack for every 1 they drop. This is also vital to get through the level as apart from the 
 extremely rare enemy ammo drop, this is the only source of soldier shield charge.
  
  As well as having the primary weapon, each class can be customized with both armour (including 
 weapon attachments) , berserks and secondary weapons - all of which add a physical appearance change 
 when unlocked and bought. To buy these upgrades you need to be right level, which you can get to 
 by gaining exp through killing, doing your primary job (killing, healing or ammo supplying) and 
 completing the level. Once you've unlocked the item you want, you need grey tech to buy it, which 
 is dropped from the boss-type enemies in co-op or is found during a mission. Each class has different 
 upgrades but many will do near enough the same job. All this applies to weapon attachments. For 
 secondary weapons, you can choose them at the start or throughout the mission which you will then 
 receive when you respawn (after you die) . Some will be useless, some might not even use the secondary 
 weapon but they should come in handy and its always worth choosing the most helpful. Berserks are 
 gained after gaining 3,000 exp and can help a lot, but can be lost easily as they aren't very long 
 and will disappear if you die (unless you are physically revived) . You can unlock these the same 
 way as armour and weapon upgrades but you do not need to have to pay for them with Grey Tech. You 
 can choose 1 each mission and you can change when you respawn too.
  
  Co-op does have its flaws, like a few bugs and the occasional bugged enemy meaning for a boring, 
 easy take down which is still long winded. Teamwork is a must, or at least 3 or 4 people working 
 together. But the best thing about co-operative mode, is that its never the same mission. The maps 
 are extremely large with lots of objectives - too many, in fact; so depending on the amount of 
 people it chooses a number of objectives, in a random order and a random selection. Example: You're 
 playing the same map twice, but the first time, you have 4 people. You'll start playing in a random 
 place on the map and have to do a random order of objectives; flip a switch, kill 2 titans, flip 
 a few more switches, defend some people and assault a fortress. Next time, you have a full group 
 of 8 (Maximum number) and you start at the very start of the map - but first theres hordes of chimera 
 rushing you, then you have to fight at the top of a hill as oncoming grims attack and then you 
 have to fight a Marauder, followed by a 2 stalkers and a titan. Completely different missions - 
 length, objectives, class set-up, group set-up, different people... but there is 1 slight problem. 
 Not everyone knows there jobs; you'll often find Special ops going solo without dropping ammo; 
 medics going offensive and soldiers who do bother to shield but strafe so much that it protects 
 nobody, then moans that the ammo where he was standing isn't where he is standing now. This isn't 
 too much of a problem, as the party system is very good - the best to date. From the main menu, 
 a simple press of Triangle brings you to the allies menu; where you can see who's in your party, 
 gives you party options, all friends and what they're doing, all clan members and what they're 
 doing and other various options. With a few simple tasks, you can have a full group of 8 with friends 
 or clan members; and even random people who you enjoy playing with.
  
  In my opinion, co-op is extremely underrated and is much better than the competitive mode.
  
 
  Competitive mode is like most games; Capture the flag, death match and team death match, but also 
 has a unique game mode called Skirmish. In Skirmish, the teams have to fight for objectives; whether 
 it being capturing a location or assassinating 1 member of the other team The best bit is that 
 this mode requires teamwork and is by far the best mode; for exp, kills and fun, this is the mode. 
 But even better yet, you can have small or large games... small being as little as 4 or 5 and large 
 being a massive 60 which sounds like chaos but is handled very well using a squad system. All 60 
 players are in the same game but it is split into a number of squads, each with a rival squads. 
 You play normally, but this time the objectives you get are unique to you and your rival squads 
 meaning you'll have small skirmishes at the objective but when traveling you'll encounter many 
 squads, often outnumbered. The maps are the same as the campaign and co-op, but designed for competitive 
 (all doors opened, AI gone etc) . When running around, you'll find that you are invisible on the 
 small mini-map, but as soon as you start sprinting (with L2 held down, but all controller configurations 
 are customizable) you'll appear on the map as a red dot to the enemy - an unmissable red dot. You'll 
 soon learn that sprinting constantly gets you in trouble and running without holding L2 is a much 
 faster way as you will not get killed multiple times, and you also have the element of surprise.
 
  
  The 'class' system is similar to co-op, but there isn't individual classes. Instead, you can virtually 
 make your own by selecting which species you want (human and chimera) and then customizing it from 
 there, with primary weapon, berserks and cosmetic changes which only affect your physical features. 
 It uses the same system as co-op in the fact that you rank up, but this time you can reach 60 and 
 you unlock many different things (such as Hale's face, new backpacks, new berserks etc) . It is 
 quite expansive and is always fun. 
  
  In both co-op and competitive you'll always find a game; either using the Play button where you 
 can use a limited number of filters or use the Find Game option where you can select the the exact 
 game you want to play with the lists displayed in map, population, game name, type and more. Both 
 are equally useful, but Play is the option I normally use as it puts you into a game with other 
 people, instantly, which hasn't started. The graphics on all 3 modes are the same, but with quirkier 
 animations in competitive. You'll also find character models to be less appealing on both online 
 modes.
  
  And 1 feature, which I thought to be fantastic, is the menu. Normally you dismiss them but with 
 annoying features everywhere on some menus and some taking ages to get to the online modes (Namely 
 MGS4 and Call of Duty series) it can get repetitive. Luckily, Resistance 2 uses a menu from where 
 you can access the Campaign, co-op and competitive from. Even better is that you can either load 
 a save, find a comp game or co-op game in 2 presses of X from the main menu, without any extra 
 loading in between. This enables you to flick between campaign, co-operative and competitive modes 
 easily.
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 is a top notch game with it's share of flaws, but these are minority as 
 when it comes down to it, you'll enjoy every last minute and will leave you wanting more. This 
 isn't a graphically and technically amazing piece of software; it's a game, a game which is fun, 
 looks good and plays well. If you're looking for an FPS and have yet to decide, Resistance 2 is 
 perfect with something for everyone; if your a fan or not you can get into the story and the ending 
 and nearby will clear up a few questions, but then offering more.
  
  1 things for sure; Insomniac has a lot of work to do before they can make Resistance 3, which they're 
 should be, better than Resistance 2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2009 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is the follow up sequel to the Playstation 3's exclusive launch title Resistance: 
 Fall of Man. It's a first person shooter created by Insomniac Games, who's known for their Ratchet 
 and Clank installments. You play as the infected soldier Nathan Hale in his continued saga to save 
 humanity from the Chimeran invasion which has now come to the home front of the United States (specifically 
 California, Illinois and Louisiana) . Despite what the many has described as a generic story plot, 
 I found the single player to be comparable to a very good gory, action-packed war movie that takes 
 place in an alternative 1950s reality. The sequel delivers more action with a greater sense of 
 scale in terms of the environments as well as the bosses. In the spirit of Insomniac's Ratchet 
 and Clank series and the original Resistance: Fall of Man, the game delivers a plethora of unique 
 and satisfying weaponry, which (in my opinion) helps to distinguish this game from your everyday 
 run of the mill WWII first person shooters.
  
  The gameplay is top notch as the controls are very responsive and can be altered to suit all hardcore 
 COD4 fans. The graphics have been drastically improved to a point that although they emulate the 
 original, the environment textures and colors have a distinct "POP" that help to immerse the player 
 in the experience. The audio is satisfying and delivers a very eerie and atmospheric vibe. This 
 point is hugely first noticed after your convoy is ambushed in the Californian forest and you have 
 to fight through multiple waves of Chimeran foes, especially the Chameleons. They make an unforgettable 
 noise that is a good indication that they are in close proximity yet emits a chill up your spine, 
 which is quite exhilarating.
  
  Due to modern gaming circumstances, the game features not one, but two online gameplay experiences. 
 The first is a unique 2-8 players cooperative mode which places you and your squad mate (s) up against 
 Chimeran AI. Your goal in this mode is to complete numerous sub-tasks, ultimately achieving your 
 end objective (if successful) . The key goal in this co-op mode is to stick together and for each 
 team member to perform their class specific tasks. You receive experience points (XP) for each 
 kill, but optimize your XP when performing your duties (i. e. medic heals/revives fallen comrades, 
 soldier kills enemies, special ops delivers munition packs to teammates, etc.) . It's a very satisfying 
 and refreshing mode that is helps to complete such a unique and well-rounded game such as this. 
 
  
  Completing the trio of gameplay (single player campaign and cooperative mode) is the competitive 
 online mode. Here you can find your traditional deathmatch, team deathmatch and capture the flag 
 modes in 2-60 player battles. These modes can prove to be a bit chaotic, especially during the 
 60 players settings and can sometimes make an individual feel as if they are not impacting the 
 overall war (or goal) that your team is engaged in. If this is the case, Resistance 2's competitive 
 mode may offer players a more focused online experience in the form of their Skirmish mode. Here, 
 players are divided up into squads, and each squad receives on-the-fly objectives to complete. 
 Objectives are updated often and can change the flow of battle drastically, so each match has a 
 unique, frantic feel. Unlike in the cooperative mode, you have all the abilities and weapons in 
 the single-player campaign readily available to you, so everyone is more or less evenly matched. 
 This mode is great and in pursuit of completing your objectives you can pass members of the rival 
 team without no knowledge due to your willingness to complete your assigned task at hand.
  
  In conclusion, Resistance 2 is a superb game that offers three modes that will suit any fan 
 of the first person genre. If you're a fan of the original Resistance game, first person shooters 
 or love games with a sci-fi twist, Resistance 2 will provide hours of enjoyment and is a must buy 
 (in my opinion) for owners of the PS3.
  
  Final Score: 9.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 26, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  Well the original Resistance brought a great game at the time. Now that Resistance 2's out it has 
 went back down the slope. The controls are a bit sensitive and the Chimera take ten trillion shots 
 to kill. It can get fustrating at some points and also fails to produce great graphics. The only 
 good things about resistance 2 is the boss battles like battling the 300 foot Levithian. The game 
 is a complex game and the missions are sometimes just silly. I'd advise you if you were a call 
 of duty fan not to get this, but if you enjoy sci, fi games then take it but you wont be playing 
 it long after that. Im no fan of Resistance and Im selling it on Ebay cause its rubbish and a waste 
 of time to buy, just the graphics, gamesplay quality its all a shambles. The games fell away from 
 the original and focused more on a tight based un intense action combat system. Its a one to miss 
 this season. Untill Resistance 3 comes out you'll have to wait on the resistance series. Its not 
 that I just want to get you to not buy but its just the games completely and utterly rubbish. I 
 rate it 4 out of 10. And it only got the 4 cause of one cool cutscene and the boss battle with 
 the levithian. You should rent it first, you'll hate it then you wont buy it. Wate of money even 
 on the rent. Bye. Thanks for reading. See yah next time.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: on1t
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:40 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game out of pure boredom and optimism (One day after it released ) . Utter surprise 
 is what followed. The reason for the optimism and surprise is due to the fact that I just couldn't 
 get into the first RFOM release ( Ended up trading it , my mistake for not giving it a chance) . 
 The campaign was challenging, the boss fights were intense, and the graphics were stunning. What 
 definitely makes this game stand out for me with out a doubt though is the online game play. Competition 
 and adrenaline skyrocket out of control with maps of up to 60 players running-a-muck, it's like 
 gobbling up a carnage and mayhem sandwich ( Did I mention the absence of any "lag" issues) . There 
 are quite a few different online modes to keep any gamer busy for a long time after you purchase 
 this game and believe me you'll keep coming back for more. So, buy this game and I'll see you on 
 the battle field. "Go in peace or leave in pieces."
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UnknownRandom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 10:19 am PT
Review:  OK, let me start off with what i didn't like about the game, and that would be the story. In truth, 
 the resistance 1 or 2 games didn't do a good job in expressing their story. Not that they didn't 
 explain the story well, it's just that i didn't feel exited or even care about what was going on 
 in the story. For all i knew, i was just being brought to places to stop the alien invasion (and 
 thats practically half the story just right there) . Not only was the story too simple, it also 
 needed something to make players feel curious and jump out of their seat whenever a secret is revealed 
 in the story. So basically, the story was a little dry. 
  But something that doesn't feel dry is the action. The bosses are excellent and it makes you feel 
 like you're actually fighting off real aliens at certain times since the eviroment and the A. I. 
 were so well done. The size of most of the enemies was also something good about the game that 
 adds to the action. 
  And finally, my opinion on the online multiplayer. Resistance online can be very fun if you just 
 started playing it, and throughout the first month of playing online, but than things start to 
 get repetitive and even though you can unlock things by leveling up, it still isn't enough to fight 
 the feeling of boredome. And you are left with an empty dry feeling when playing just like the 
 game's story. The different classes were fun but they eventually get boring. All online needs to 
 be good is some spice, or something that will make the experience feel new every time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockutd
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 1:12 am PT
Review:  You probably heard about the beautiful breathtaking graphics that Resistance 2 boasts. If a game 
 is just about great graphics, then R2 would be a wonderful game. 
  Unfortunately, other than beautiful graphics, i cant think of anything good to say about R2. For 
 its credit, R2 does define how a next gen game should look like. But gameplay wise, more has to 
 improved on.
  Firstly, the storyline was ur basicprotagonist saves the world" crap, a plot that was been used 
 in many games out there. Trust me, u wouldn't even bother about the story. For the 1st few hours, 
 u would be probably awe struck by the beautiful visuals, so much so that u would even forget about 
 the storyline. The boss fights were immense, and u do wish that there had been more in the game.
 
  R2 plays out like ur typical FPS. Completing it once unlocks the superhuman difficullty level, 
 and for me , there isn't any replay value for the campaign.
  Multiplayer wise, the game takes a different approach. U gain experience for every kill u make and 
 that enables u to unlock new weapons, skills for the multiplayer. Compared to Halo3, i felt it wasn't 
 as enjoyable. It does feel abit imbalanced when u just started out as u don 't have those skills 
 and weapons that high lvl players have.
  For me, the game just gets boring after a while. I haven't tried GoW2, but maybe ppl who r deciding 
 between this n GOw2 should go for Gow2.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haven101gamer
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:36 am PT
Review:  I heard a lot of good news about this game, good thing i rented it because the game was surely 
 lacking. Sure the graphics where nice to look at but i ran in to a few bugs. Every now and then 
 the game would be to easy or way to hard, and the game seemed to never point you in the right direction 
 or any. There where many times when i would try to throw a grenade threw a tight space and instead 
 of going through the open space it would just bounce back and hit me instead, very annoying. As 
 for the guns in this game what a letdown. I heard so many good things about them but please you 
 get like 2-3 versions of the same alien rifle, same model, just a different color and a little 
 stronger. The magnum was pretty cool though it seemed like i could kill everyone in the game with 
 it. There are a couple interesting weapons though like the alien sniper. Overall i felt like the 
 weapons where lacking, the story wasn't so great and was pretty short, and with the few bugs i 
 noticed it was enough to lighten the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vampiregeneral1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 24, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  When i bought resistance 2 i was expecting to buy a good , solid game, i got that and much much 
 more. Great weapons although the mele combat was slightly disappointing. The fighting was great 
 and all of the boss battles were amazing... exept for Daedalus battle. I found that the daedalus 
 battle was poorly thought up all the other boss battles were entertaining and intricate, but the 
 daetalus battle barley had any combat. COME ON all u did was shoot light bulbs that was very disappointing 
 and lost 5 points for me. The multi player was very basic and bored me after 10 minuites that also 
 lost another 5 points. Graphics:9.8/10 
  Gameplay:10/10
  Multiplayer:7/10
  Costumes:9.8/0
  Story:8/10
  Weapons:10/9.5
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  Let's face it, although Fall of Man was a very enjoyable game, that was it. It was one of those 
 games with fun gameplay that deserves an 8.0 at best. It had squarish and stiff graphics and very 
 short underaverage cutscenes aswell as no boss battles. 
  
  Insomniac come out more prepared with Resistance 2, a game that has twice as much features as its 
 prequel.
  
  Weapons are improved and new ones can be found aswell as some old ones being removed. It's ok though 
 they removed the least popular. The boss battles are fun too... the game gets to be very frustrating 
 because of its habit of having chimera gang up on you. Lasers and chimera everywhere... yes sometimes 
 you feel like switching the ps3 off or say something like 'Why the hell would Insomniac do this 
 scene?? Who loves being killed 5 seconds after meeting the enemies???'. For this fact, you cannot 
 beat the game without dieing at least 20 times if you hadn't beaten it before and remember all 
 the tactics that finally beat the hardest parts. This game makes you think before you act... strategies 
 start flying out of your mind. With boss battles it is different though :) Boss battles are easy 
 as pie which makes them more thoroughly enjoyable. The last boss fight which was part of the last 
 level was the easiest part of the game unlike Fall of Man's which was on of the hardest levels 
 I've beaten in my life.
  Something that ticks you off sometimes is when you try to run away from something to get a clearer 
 shot or something but you keep bumping into objects and get stuck somewhere. That's plain unfair, 
 trying to run backwards and get stuck every 5 seconds. Truth is, Hale couldn't keep walking if 
 he meets a 3 ft platform and there is stuff that high everywhere, you'd either have to jump (which 
 won't always work) or run around it. This is soooooo frustrating because sometimes you meet enemies 
 that are 5 times bigger but run a bit faster than you so you'd have to run, dodge and shoot to 
 kill but it doesn't help to have to stop every 5 seconds or less. He gets 5 more seconds of his 
 lazer on you or he reaches you in close quarters and you're dead, plus sometimes you'd have to 
 kill three of this guy at a time. 
  
  The cutscenes have improved highly and the story will now make Hale cooler (last level anyone?) 
 and having a team of people like Hale (the sentinals) and working for a corp with a cool uniform 
 makes the game less empty and lonely... it actually makes it pretty lively. 
  
  New chimera, including the bosses, are highly welcome in this game and I found the creators to 
 be very... well... creative, to think of such new features on chimera that fit so well and don't 
 forget the different circumstances in which you'd have to kill chimera eg. with the sniper on a 
 chopper and in a large dark basement flooded with water.... keeping the torch on is a must. Yep, 
 just you, your gun and it's torch bright, hundreds of those running, skinny chimeras hatching from 
 their eggs and the dull old doors you break through.... don't forget the blood everywhere. I found 
 it to be very exciting personally.
  
  The online is very, very good. I'm not a fan of online gaming and when I heard of 60 player co-op 
 I just saw it as a way of complicating things but now I can totally see why people were so excited 
 about that... especially in the Chicago square, I love that :D
  
  Well I hope this helped ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB1994
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:33 am PT
Review:  Positive
  
  +Great multiplayer (especially co-op)
  +Solid gameplay mechanics
  +Huge levels with great graphics
  +Cool weapons
  
  Negative
  
  -Campaign is pretty boring
 
  -Storyline isn't any better
  
  Resistance 2 is a highly anticipated FPS shooter exclusively for the PS3. Not really being a PS3 
 gamer, i don't really no if this is the best game for the system. Is Resistance 2 a fantastic game 
 that lived up to the hype? Yes and no. Its not the most revolutionary game ive ever played, but 
 its still a game worth checking out for anyone who owns a PS3.
  
  As far as i no about the storyline, its pretty uninteresting and probably not worth giving a crap 
 about but from what i understand its set right after the first Resistance which i never actually 
 played so i'm not to familiar with the story and its basically just an average war story with the 
 hero who you play as trying to save the earth from aliens and that's pretty much it. The campaign 
 itself is actually pretty boring, there's no online co-op for the campaign so you have play through 
 it by your self. Ive not gotten very far but the multiplayer is much better then the single player. 
 Simply because its up to 60 players online in a match like death match or TDM. Sound pretty cool 
 right? Well its one hell of an experience, there's also a co-op game were you and 7 other people 
 can just play through some random levels that's not part of the campaign. The gameplay mechanics 
 are really good. You can do the same old FPS stuff like duck, shoot, fire.... etc, also the guns 
 are varied and there's a lot of them.
  
  The graphics are incredible, the levels are huge with great looking environments and some good 
 looking models. The sound is decent with generic sound effects, voice acting can be pretty good 
 at times and the music is generic.
  
  As i mentioned before this game is worth checking out for any PS3 owners, a must buy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LosDaddie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 8:30 am PT
Review:  LOVED
  
  Co-Op: If you've read my blog before, then you know how much of a co-op fan I am. While I would've 
 also loved co-op through the single player campaign, the new, 8player co-op in Res2 is awesome. 
 So awesome, in fact, that I can easily see myself playing this mode into 2010, if not until Res3 
 comes out.
  
  Co-op is a straight-up RPG set in an FPS game; There's a Medic (healer) , Soldier (tank) , and Special 
 Ops cl@ss..... and you level-up as you gain more XP giving you new weapons/armor/abilities. It's 
 a fresh take on the standard FPS co-op mode.
  
  (up to) 60 Player Competitve Modes: I've always enoyed largescale FPS battles where chaos rules 
 and Res2 delivers such an experience in spades. While most Ranked matches rarely involve more than 
 40 players, it's fairly easy to find Unranked matched with 60 players.
  
  There's also a new mode called Skirmish. It's basically a variant of CTF with some twists, like 
 the objective location changing throughout the match. Skirmish is a blast to play.
  
  Party System: I firmly believe all games should have a Party System for their online mode. I believe 
 it's no coincidence that the most-played, highest-selling PSN (and XBL) games all include a Party 
 System. 
  
  Gather some buds and jump from game to game together without ever being disconnected from one another. 
 It's how online gaming should be.
  
  Dedicated Servers: When you shoot for the stars and include a whopping 60 ( !! ) players for your 
 online matches; Dedicated servers are the only way to fly. Insomniac Games wisely went this route 
 and lag is almost non-existant.
  
  Audio Design: If you own a surround sound system, Res2 will knock your socks off. The battlefield 
 (esp. in co-op & competitve modes) comes to life in DTS 5.1 Audio glory. Yes, you are missing out 
 if you don't have a home theater system.
  
  Weapon Variety: Weapons are the cornerstone of the Resistance franchise, and Res2 does not disappoint. 
 All the standard FPS guns are represented (Rifle, Shotgun, Rocketlauncher, sniper) along with new/unique 
 guns (Buzz saw launcher, pistol with explosive rounds, etc) . Every weapon has a secondary function 
 (like a grenade launcher or shield) , making for an extra layer of strategy. 
  
  Furthermore, you can select a different weapon layout each time you respawn in an online game (co-op 
 & competitive) .... adding yet another layer of strategy.
  
  Boss Battles: If you're a fan of monster movies like Cloverfield, then you'll love the boss fights 
 in Res2. And there's plenty of them.
  
  HATED
  
  Lack of Gamma/Brightness Slider: How can a AAA developer omit what should be standard A/V setting 
 in a game today? I paid $120 to have my 61" 1080p LCD professionally calibrated, so I know my settings 
 are optimal. And yet this is the only game I've played in a long time where the levels were too 
 dark. I literally had the in-game flashlight on all the time.
  
  A simple gamma slider would've solved this problem entirely (like it has in other games) . To be 
 fair, this problem is confined only to the SP campaign.
  
  Weapon Wheel: ....... or lack thereof. The Weapon Wheel found in RFoM allowed for access to every 
 gun you found in the campaign, which made perfect sense because the guns were the star of the game. 
 Why Insomniac decided to limit us to 2 weapons at a time, I'll never know. If I wanted to only 
 have 2 weapons available at once, I'd play Halo3.
  
  Scripted Gameplay: Because Insomniac decided to limit the player to 2 weapons at a time, the SP 
 campaign's gameplay now feels completely scripted. How so? 
  
  You find a LAARK (rocketlauncher) in a level and guess what? There's going to be a very large enemy 
 to fight real soon.
  You find a ROSSMOR (shotgun) in a level and gues what? Either Grims (zombie-like enemies) or a 
 Chameleon (predator-like enemy) will be charging towards you real soon.
  You find a FAREYE (sniper) in a level and guess what? There's going to be some enemies in this 
 distance for you to shoot real soon.
  You find a Wraith (gatling fun) in a level and guess what? There's going to be a swarm of those 
 scorpion-like bugs charging at you real soon.
  Simply put, if you find an unusual gun just lying around, it's a safe bet you're about to encounter 
 an enemy this new gun will be perfect to shoot at. Ugh....... 
  
  Story / Lack of Narrator: RFoM had a female narrator who made the story very easy to follow. Insonmiac 
 decided to take her out of Res2 and in turn made the story hard to follow and completely forgettable. 
 
  
  CONCLUSION
  
  Resistance 2 is a great game that misses the "EPIC GAME" status due to the average SP campaign. 
 With the scripted gameplay due to the lack of Weapon Wheel found in RFoM, it's difficult not to 
 feel let down with the second chapter of Nathan Hale's tale.
  
  But Resistance 2 redeems itself with an outstanding multiplayer package. Whether you're playing 
 the RPG-like 8 player co-op or the (up to) 60 player competitive modes, you'll have a great time. 
 Res2 is a game all FPS fans should play online. And the leveling-up system is just more incentive 
 for you keep playing.
  
  A great exclusive game for PS3 owners. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ih8pie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:21 pm PT
Review:  this game is and uncharted are my 2 games i got with my ps3 fer christmas and this game is WAAAY 
 better than uncharted in almost every way and it's just addicting fun.
  
  graphics: pretty solid but the fire from explosions look like crap fer a ps3 game
  (8.5/10)
 
  
  story: didnt play the first 1 but the story is ok but it isnt tht ingaging thou i didnt play the 
 first 1 and i understanded most of it but it isnt fantastic its ok 
  (8/10)
  
  gameplay: pure awesomeness (srry abot spelling) . the way that grims die and the way tht every cimera 
 dies looks cool. there are also lots of weapons in the game to play around with. the story mode 
 is decetly lengthed at maybe 10 or so hours with some replayability fer trophies and intel documents 
 scattered thruout lvls. shooting those cimera baddies dead and watching pools of blood leak from 
 their bodies and gory headshots just feels awesome to see. online is insane fun. their are several 
 fun modes in competetive like skirmish ( an objective based mode) and cooperative wich is insane 
 fun and pits you in missions with several objectives and loads of cimera attacking you and your 
 team. its a lot to explain but it is insane fun (9.5/10)
  
  
  overall this game is insane fun and if you love shooters and played the last one GET THIS GAME!!! 
 It's awesome addictive shooting fun that will last you a while
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikosk8
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I dind't have the resistance fall of man game but when I went to a friend of mine's house I just 
 could'nt resiste And the online playing its just amazing I think that you can buy the game just 
 to play online
  Other games like Metal Gear Solid, Far Cry 2 are ok but in my opinion i think that this one beats 
 them all but to see more you will have to buy the game OH and buy a second comand if you don't 
 have allready
  
  Multiplayer offline
  Multiplayer ofline is good because you win exp. to the online game so I think that's good but it's 
 really hard to get one mission complete whit only two players in the online game you play with 
 8 players and that makes it kinda easy. But if you have tree remotes you can pass the mission it's 
 hard but it is not has hard has whit two remotes .
  
  Soldier Play
  
  The soldier is great to play with because of the huge machine gun and the exp that you win in fact 
 its the only playing mode if played if you can please tell my if you win more exp. in soldier or 
 in medic or in spec. ops. 
  
  Sorry about my bad english 
  I'm Portuguese 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ivitaminwater
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 5:28 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a sequel to PS3 launch title, Resistance: Fall of man. There are exceptional amounts 
 of goods followed by a bad here or there that just cut it short of the perfect score.
  
  Resistance 2 is a different kind of sequel. Most sequels happen months or days or even years after 
 the 1st game's last scene. Resistance 2 is different. The first scene is basically connected with 
 the ending. As you travel to SRPA's iceland base via VTOLs, you get ambushed and that's when the 
 story begins. You're objective throughout the whole game is to defeat daedalus, a freaky outcome 
 of project Abraham and the only other survivor of the project other than Hale. The campaign takes 
 place in North America. A complaint I have here is that the campaign is short. It is much shorter 
 than the campaign of resistance: fall of man. 
  
  Some changes: 
  Resistance 2 now features a call of duty style gameplay system where you can regenerate health. 
 The button scheme also seems familiar to most shooter fans. The changes to health were smart changes 
 because the first system was frustrating because of the constant franticness of finding health 
 things. The color palette has also increased so that the game can seem a bit more colorful with 
 much variety. The graphics have also much improved in both landscape and weaponry; however, there 
 are still some bits of choppy water graphics here and there. Other than that and the addition of 
 some new weapons like the V7 Splicer, Pulse Cannon, and the HPV Wraith, it's basically the great 
 resistance that we all know and love.
  
  Multiplayer:
  The multiplayer in Resistance 2 has been greatly expanded. I haven't played competitive much but 
 to sum it up it has up to 60 people duke it out in various mode such as team battles and free for 
 all deathmatches. The thing that made Resistance 2 shine for me is the Co-operative mode. There 
 are 3 classes, Spec ops, medic, and soldier. Each class is significantly different from the other 
 but nonetheless, they are all very fun. You can go up to level 30 on each class and buy enhancements 
 to your weapons or armors with material that you gather through the co-operative mode called gray 
 tech. The classes have a variety of weapons as you level up and it just makes you want to play 
 more and more. You can play co-operative with up to 8 people online. One of my complaints here 
 is that if you can play co-operative mode offline, then why can't you play the regular campaign 
 cooperatively at all? Besides that, the multiplayer is an awesome hook that will get you playing 
 for hours. 
  
  That's about all I can say for today. Resistance 2 is a must buy for PS3 owners and shooter fans 
 and besides a few complaints, this game is the best sequel I have ever played and it has improved 
 in every way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCHIPSS
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a pretty good game, but I don't think it is great. 
  
  The battles themselves is improved over Resistance 1. But the semi-self regeneration semi hp pot 
 system was removed. The vehicle driving parts were removed. While the normal enemies have improved 
 (e. g. shield soldiers) , the boss fights were all very easy, making me feel that the boss just "let" 
 me win (e. g. by going to the ONLY place that they could be defeated, by not using all their abilities 
 to kill me) . Another big blow is the removal of offline story split screen coop, one of the big 
 thing that made Resistance 1 fun. 
  
  The story telling were not as engaging as the first game. Often the story were told by conversations 
 during the game instead of cut scenes. This made it very hard to follow the story since there are 
 bullets flying at me. And even when I took my time to understand the story some parts just doesn't 
 make sense. In a way Resistance 1's story is simpler and more straightforward, but that is no excuse 
 for Resistance 2's lack of tie from mission to mission. (e. g. Resistance 1 story leads you from 
 one thing to another, Resistance 2 story seems to teleport you from place to place for no clear 
 reason)
  
  Overall as a shooter Resistance 2 is not bad. It is not disappointing because it is bad. It however 
 is disappointing because it failed to improve upon, and sometimes worsened from, Resistance 1. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btpau1ie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 19, 2009 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is great. Plain and simple. Insomniac's new shooter has it all. Resistance features 
 life - like graphics, great gameplay, online and offline, and a soundtrack that accomadates the 
 game perfectly. There are only a few minute flaws keeping this game from being perfect.
  
  The campaign on Resistance was compelling all the way through. in it, you play as a half infected 
 human, fighting against the chimeran invasion of Earth. There is a wide variety of weapons to choose 
 from, diversifying the human weaponry with the alien weaponry quite well. The controlls are easy 
 to understand. The difficulty was not too easy, but it was far from hard, perfect actually. The 
 only thing that bothered me was that it was difficult to know where to go at times. But beside 
 that, Insomniac did a great job on the campaign.
  
  Playing Resistance 2 online is one of the most addicting things I've ever done. Using the clever 
 level system, the online play draws gamers in to play over, and over again. Every kill gives the 
 player a certain amount of XP, eventually leveling him/her up. One thing I love is that the player 
 picks a weapon to spawn with, and eventually the player gets used to a weapon, and that gives every 
 player a sort - of online identity in a way.
  
  The graphics on Resistance were picture - perfect. No lag, no blocky animation ever. Just crystal 
 clear graphics the whole way through. During the cutscenes the graphics were phenomenal, almost 
 life like. The normal gameplay also features the fantastic graphics that we have come to expect 
 the Playstation 3 to deliver with all of it's games. Resistance 2 truly harnesses the PS3's power 
 the best.
  
  Overall, Resistance is a must - have for the PS3 owner. Insomniac delivers fantastic gameplay, 
 graphics, and sound throughout the entire game, creating an epic gaming experience. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 3:04 am PT
Review:  Heyz. When i first got this game i was extremely dissapointed but then i given it more of a chance 
 and it turns out to be a great game, but overrated.
  
  Story
  The story is pretty good. Set 2 years after the first one the chimera have launched a massive attack 
 on America and you need to stop them with your group of sentinals, other people infected by the 
 chimera but havnt turnt yet.
  
  Single Player
  Sing player is great with alot of fun bits in the game that will really get you going but these 
 moment will be ruined for some by overpowered enemys and constent dying. There are so many different 
 types of chimera now that you just wish you could go back to fighting the regular old ones from 
 Resistance 1.
  Boss's are look extremely cool and when you first see them you'll be like "how am i meant to kill 
 that? its huuuuuuuge" but you'll be dissapointed because they are so easy to kill. Dispite all 
 this its still a fun single player which will be enjoyed alot.
  
  Multiplayer
  Co-op
  In co-op you'll have to do mission swith up to 8 other players. You can choose between 3 class's 
 being Solider, Medic and Spec Ops. Solider is the one in the team who will be the attack force 
 while the Medic heals everyone and Spec Ops keep everyone stocked up on ammo. 
  
  Competive.
  Horrible, spammy as hell and if your in a huge match most of the time you'll be lost 
 in a sea of explosions and bullets flying everywhere. Good thing is its 64 players and i never 
 experienced lag.
  
  Graphics
  They went for more of the cartoonish look which can be annoying but once you get use to it then 
 its pretty good and theres lots of detail.
  
  Overall.
  Although with an overrated online and some frustrating single player moments Resistance 2 is a 
 game thats just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomniac_dog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  Insomniac Games are clearly geniuses at work within this industry. Few things compare to some of 
 the moments and feelings you experience through some of their games, and Resistance 2 (sequel to 
 the best launch title for the PS3) does not disappoint in the slightest. If anything, it expands 
 incredibly on an already awesome formula as well as adding tons of new and upgraded gameplay additions.
 
  
  The campaign mode and its story are simply astounding. Nathan Hale has been taken in by SRPA, a 
 special forces unit, and joins Echo Team, a group of three other soldiers who you'll actually become 
 quite close to during the game. You are figthing the Chimera, an alien virus which has now spread 
 across the Atlantic and onto North America. 
  
  To paraphrase another of IG's games: "R2's story is wrapped in an enigma, then smothered in secret 
 sauce, then..." It is so mysterious and deliciously secretive. You find out information one step 
 at a time, until a massive bombshell hits the team, and then you go again, uncovering intel and 
 whatnot. It is excellently paced and the ending is extremely brave for doing what it does. Trust 
 me, an R3 is coming.
  
  And judging by the improvements R2 has made over the original, an R3 could just be this game but 
 with the 2 crossed out. Every aspect of this game has been overhauled. The weapons, whether old 
 or new, are tuned to perfection and perfect in their own right. Kudos to the guy who thought up 
 the Splicer... ouch! All new Chimeran strains make an appearance, too. From the swarming drones 
 to the tough-n-rough Ravagers, and the relentless Grims to the pulse-pounding Chameleons, there 
 is a fantastic range of baddies for you to duke it out with.
  
  The epicness of Resistance 2 deserves it's own paragraph, in my opinion. Whether you've just walked 
 out onto San Francisco Bay, or caught a glimpse of the Chicago Leviathan, your jaw WILL drop, guaranteed. 
 Even the very first level has a boss which pretty much puts Shadow of the Colossus to shame. Although, 
 this is on the PS3. And the PS3 has good graphics.
  
  Did I say good? I meant fantasmically coolerific. The original, while certainly not ugly, had a 
 lot of greys and browns (which suited the location, but didn't really showcase the PS3) . Insomniac 
 have added roughly 643 new colours to their palette, and the country town levels in R2 are particularly 
 brimming with vibrancy (someone write that down...) . Character models are highly detailed and the 
 HD cutscenes are well put together. Plus there's a ton of bells and whistles which the frame rate 
 manages to withstand. 
  
  Voice acting is well on par, especially Dr. Malikov, who always sounds alert, but not alarmed. 
 Well, except for when a massive horde of electrical Chimeran beetles rush at him with relentless 
 speed and force. His voice raises a little bit then, I think. The music does exactly what it sets 
 out to do: create tension and atmosphere. You won't see any awards for this soundtrack, but every 
 level is just overflowing with mood, mainly because of the music.
  
  Then there is online. Oh, mama! Co-op mode is not actually the main campaign; it is a separate 
 storyline set across multiple locations. The three classes are all balanced and serve well as a 
 'something for everyone' aspect to online. Teamwork is rewarded and co-op is also filled with some 
 pretty epic moments. To summarise, the Co-op is spectacular.
  
  Competitive is relatively unchanged from R1, except for a new Berserk powerup option which becomes 
 available when you gain enough experiece in a match. These range from extra shields to kamikaze 
 bombs, and all are welcome. Apart from the usual DM, TDM and CTF (Capture the Core in R2) , there 
 is the fleshed out Skirmish mode, capable for 60 players! Unprecedented is what I like to call 
 it. Dynamic objectives and squad-work is the name of the game here, and you'll be hooked.
  
  Uniting this all is a wonderfully amazing XP system. You'll collect points from the 3 C's (campaign, 
 co-op and comp) and input it all into the 4th C (community) . Here you climb ranks, unlock medals 
 and ribbons and check leaderboards. Clans and parties are supported and it is simple to meet up 
 with your friends. Bravo Insomniac.
  
  Campaign mode takes around 7-9 hours to complete, but there are additional difficulties, trophies 
 and of course the online modes to keep the replayability up high. A few technical and graphical 
 glitches hold back R2 from being a perfect 10, but in hindsight, they are pretty negligible.
  
  And that is Resistance 2. A game that can only be seen as epic. From the fascinating plot to 
 the chilling music, and the wondrous graphics to the solid-as-always gameplay, R2 is a game in 
 which its campaign mode is worth the price of admission alone. But coupled with the outstanding 
 singleplayer is an online goldmine of goodness. Everything is just so incredible and seamless. 
 Whoever said Resistance is futile was wrong. Quite the opposite in fact. It's perfectly awesome. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hockeydudejp17
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2009 8:29 am PT
Review:  As I was saying before, Resistance 2 lacks a few main pieces. The first was a total letdown. Ladders, 
 most rocks, and all different types of boxes do not allow you to climb them or even get on them. 
 Some rocks and walls will sling shot away from them just if you get on or near them. The next is 
 the lack of checkpoints. If you play the game at normal pace, every checkpoint is usually about 
 10-15 minutes apart. If you die, which happens frequently, you will have to go all the way back 
 to that checkpoint. I rented the game just last week and I still haven't beaten it. The last major 
 annoyance is that the AI of your in-game teammates/squad members absolutely suck. They randomly 
 shoot away will your getting eaten alive by zombies. But on the plus side, the game is most of 
 the time an exciting shooter. Lush environments are sometimes shaky, but are still beautiful. Weapons 
 are quite cool, with some odd surprises. But I believe there aren't that many weapons. Also, enemies 
 love to get up into your face all day, and you never know where the next wave will come at you 
 from. I will have to conclude this review by asking you to just rent this game first. You may not 
 be as pleased as other people are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 18, 2009 5:22 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a huge mile stone for this highly addictive series of slice and dice alien fun!
 
  
  the story starts exactly where Resistance left off with Nathan Hale being captured by some men 
 in black, the story basically goes through a variety of places like Iceland including some places 
 in the US.
  
  Resistance is too epic for words the boss battles are amazing [though at times easy] , the graphics 
 are outstanding, and like before these battles are perfect!
  
  The ending is like none other this could possibly leave a gap for another installment but its doubtful.
 
  
  Within months of the PSP release of Retribution Resistance 2 is seeing great praise and is again 
 dominating the PS3 market.
  
  I leave saying that Resistance 2 is a candidate for the best game of 2008, just becuase of its 
 sheer glory, suspense, and the genuis story behind this epic saga! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supaflygamer525
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 1:33 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a creepy, gory, and great game to have. In resistance you play as Nathan Hale a 
 sole survivor of the russian chimeran assault. The story takes you through places you would'nt 
 expect. They're pretty much everywhere.
  They're is also a two player storyline that is pretty hard to endure. The chimeran profile is outstanding, 
 it is so cool you actually want to look at it. There is a great range of different chimeran races. 
 The blood and gore is simply great. The graphics are also good. 
  I think the most amazing part to the game is the online multiplayer. It is AWESOMELY AWESOME. One 
 also good thing is that you can take one person from your party at home and bring him or her into 
 the online battle with you! First ill start with the coorporative multiplayer. In this mode you 
 and other online players will face the chimera in competition with each other trying to gain the 
 most points. The other online mode is competitive mode. In this mode there are two teams, Human 
 vs. Chimera, some players will be the chimera trying to beat the human players, some will be human 
 trying to beat the chimeran empire. In competitive there are a couple of modes to play. There are 
 Deathmatch which is everyman for himself killfest. Team deathmatch is a killfest with Chimera and 
 human both trying to destroy each others team most kills win. Skirmish is a bunch of different 
 missions for each group on a team. Core Control is kinda like capture the flag but just a little 
 different. In that mode you have to find the opposing control tower and take it over. 
  Resistance is an amazing game but people thought that it would be one of the best ever, but it 
 actually didnt live up to hype. But besides that if you see this game in the store BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pop_can
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I played the first resistance, I was instantly hooked. The campaign was awsome and the 
 multiplayer was just plain fun. Resistance 2 meets and excedes upon every aspec set by the first 
 game.
  
  You've heard it time and time again, this game is bigger and better. 60 player online multiplayer, 
 A lengthy, fun, single player campaign, this game has it all.
  
  First, I think that I should bring up the weapons. The only normal weapons in the first game were 
 the shotgun and carbine. Everything else had it's own fun secondary function. Resistance 2 adds 
 more guns and even improves older ones, Like the Auger, which now lets you see your enemies through 
 walls.
  
  The graphics in this game are really amazing. Considering the scale of most levels and the amount 
 of people you fight, this game does not dissapoint in that area.
  
  The gameplay is also rock solid. With all the enemies and weapons, its a wonder that they got it 
 all balenced.
  
  The Story is great fun, although I do miss the narrator from the first game. But other then that 
 Its really sweet. The ending is also really heart-wrenching. It comes out of nowhere and leaves 
 you wondering "WTF"
  
  The multiplayer is a blast. This game works with my internet which sucks. The gameplay online is 
 sweet and when my internet isn't messy, its pretty much lag-free... pretty much, but again that 
 is because of my internet.
  
  I have not had a chance to try the co-op, online or off.
  
  There are a few small things that bother me with this game.
  First it brings up a crapload 
 of questions. What happened to the Cloven from the first game? And how are the Brits doing? And 
 a few other possable spoiler questions.
  And perhaps my biggest problem is why the hell did they get rid of the weapon wheel from the first 
 game? It made resistance stand out from other console games and was nice knowing that every weapon 
 was at my disposal.
  
  other than those few problems, this game is a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 10:23 pm PT
Review:  Most sequels fail to live up to the hype... Insomniac didn't get the memo. Resistance 2 is the 
 best FPS available on the Playstation 3 (at the moment) and it's not even close. An epic single 
 player campaign, fun and addicting online co-op, and intense and chaotic 60 player competitive 
 battles all add up to a great game.
  
  Resistance 2 took my expectations, and blew them out of the water. The game improved on Fall of 
 Man in so many ways I can't count them. The single player campaign is epic, simple as that. Not 
 only that, the co-operative play is so addicting, I haven't been able to finish the campaign because 
 of it! 8 players going up against hoards of Chimera is just plain fun. Nothing else to describe 
 it. But the competitive online is just amazing. It amazed me during the beta and still does when 
 I play it. 60 player battles are intense and chaotic. That's what war is. Too many games nowadays 
 have these vast, beautiful maps. Sure they are great, but unless you fill it up, there is so much 
 empty, un-needed space. Resistance 2 does not have that problem. It has a variety of map sizes, 
 all tailored for a certain amount of players.
  
  The graphics are another great aspect of this game. They are spectacular, but they have one knock 
 in my opinion. Too shiny, especially the weapons. This war has been waging for years, the guys 
 shouldn't look like they just came out of the factory. I understand that for the Chimeran weapons, 
 alien technology and all that. But for the guns like the Carbine? The metal and wood should be 
 scratched and chipped. But even though this is a small detail, the enviroments are great, and the 
 game is beautiful overall.
  
  To sum it up, Resistance 2 is a must buy for all PS3 owners. Do not pass it up, R2 is the best 
 shooter available at the moment, it lives up to, if not supassing the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall Of Man gave PS3 owners something to be happy about, and Resistance 2 only adds 
 to that joy. Improved gunplay and graphics, not to mention beautiful environments and music make 
 this sequel worth the wait. It is an intense summer blockbuster of a game, meaning it is quite 
 short, 5 to 7 hours to be exact. While the first game clocked in at little over 20 hours for me, 
 I still found Resistance 2 to be impressive. I was amazed at how it just picked up from the first 
 game, gameplay wise for me at least. The enemies were some of the greatest i've seen in any game. 
 The Gun Wheel being missing was extremely disappointing but the difficulty was easy enough that 
 i didn't need it a la the first game. Once again the final boss battle consisted of shooting an 
 inanimate object to bring down the final boss. I was going to give this game an 8.5 until i saw 
 the ending, whoa! What a cliffhanger. Maybe Capelli will be the new star of the game, he is a likable 
 character. All in all, a great gae that should be part of all PS3 owners' collections. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  The chimera, a group of alien/human hybrids, are invading the good ol' US of A and it's up to Nathan 
 Hale to stop them. The only problem is that Hale is slowly becoming the thing he despises the most. 
 The story within the game is poorly constructed and relatively weak. Resistance 2 tries to bond 
 the players with the characters in the story but that is very difficult to accomplish when the 
 in-game story is jumping from one part to another. Resistance 2 tries to rush the player into a 
 complex story that is not only difficult to understand, but hard to follow. The first Resistance 
 had a great story because it kept the plot plain and simple, Resistance 2 on the other hand tries 
 too hard to introduce new characters and plot elements that no one can relate to. 
  
  Resistance 2 is a first person shooter, and there are a variety of weapons you can choose from 
 such as the ever so accurate Bullseye, the wall piercing Auger, and the classic ol' Shotgun. The 
 chimera are incredibly intelligent within the game, they know what they're doing and they know 
 how to handle a gun like it's their child or something. If you're expecting any easy fight, well.. you 
 better stop thinking unless you want a bullet to go through your head, hahaha, nice imagery. You're 
 A. I. partners on the other hand are about as dumb as a sack of year old laundry. During skirmishes 
 with the chimera your partners like to run off ahead of you. What make it even worse is that the 
 chimera mainly focus on you which means while you're fighting to keep yourself alive, your partners 
 are just sneaking past them like they're invisible. What's up with that!? The single player campaign 
 is well crafted and balanced for the most part, but there are times where the production values 
 seem to be unbalanced. I'll talk about this matter later on. Resistance 2 can host up to 60 players 
 on multiplayer matches, and as fun as that sounds.. trust me. it's not all that great. Online matches 
 are incredibly unbalanced, and the multiplayer options just feel like they were slapped onto the 
 game. I thought the co-op aspect of the game would be spectacular, but instead I found myself and 
 my friends running from checkpoint to checkpoint just to kill enemies and flip switches. Resistance 
 2 is a better sequel in terms of gameplay, but there are many problems that stop it from being 
 a better game. 
  
  Resistance 2 is graphically stunning from the destroyed ruins of Chicago, to the intense atmosphere 
 created from the heat of battle. Insomniac promised that Resistance 2 would be larger in scale, 
 and boy they weren't kidding. The level designs were huge and were incorporated into the game rather 
 well. In one of the parts of the game you have to climb up a tower in Chicago and guess what you 
 find at the top, why nothing, just a 50 ft monster bent on ripping you apart, that's all. The chimera 
 have also received new and improved designs and so have the other characters in the game. Just 
 picture Resistance: Fall of Man with a new coat of paint over it. However, the production values 
 concerning the levels were unbalanced. Some levels were brimming with detail, and I could easily 
 tell that the developers spent a lot of time making sure that everything was in the right place. 
 At other times, the levels were dreadfully dull, and lacked vitality. 
  
  The sound design was superb. The voice actors knew what they were doing for the most part, and 
 the chimera sounded as creepy as ever. What really blew me away was the man in the radio. Many 
 players will most likely skip these radio sequences but as for me, well I stayed for every single 
 one. There are tiny little radios scattered throughout the game, and if you have the patience to 
 listen to what the man has to say you will be in for a thrilling mini story. The man in the radio 
 talks about his experience with the chimera and the horrors he has seen when they were invading, 
 and as boring as that may sound his tale actually brought a tear to my eye. (well not literally) 
 The voice actor knew how to display his emotions, and made me truly believe that he was real and 
 that America was in trouble. Kudos to you radio man, kudos to you.
  
  Overall: Resistance 2 is by far a great sequel to Resistance: Fall of Man. Resistance 2 delivers 
 fast paced action, stunning visuals, and great sound design, but is also has its share of problems 
 that prevent it from being a superb game. Hopefully if or should I say when Resistance 3 comes 
 out, Insomniac will work on the problems I mentioned earlier and make the next Resistance a struggle 
 to remember. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIHitandRunII
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  This is game is truly amazing, something i really didn't expect.
  Graphics, Gameplay, Story, Multiplayer are all done in a very superb way.
  This is has really 
 improved and really deserves the 9 that it got.... but if u hate Sci-Fi shooters with laser guns 
 with aliens. Don't buy the Game its that simple why are many people complaining about the game!
 
  
  Graphics: Are superb no doubt about it, they really improved on the cinematics and made it really 
 realistic as of ur watching a movie. I really noticed a lot of details done in the game, and the 
 environment, and weapons.
  
  Gameplay: it pretty much simple such as Gears of War... you can preform a lot of things with simple 
 controls which make the gameplay really fun.
  
  Story: OMG don't get started with Story.... Its something u won't find in any Sci-Shooters. WITH 
 A LOT OF HUGE, ENORMOUS MONSTERS which will blow u away! FINALLY NATHEN HALE talks! in the cinematics 
 and the whole game... since in R1 he really didn't talk much which pissed me off.
  
  Multiplayer: I also noticed that R2 has a really powerful Server which can hold 60 players with 
 no lag what so ever. I was really surprised.
  
  Overall i think that this game is the most improved Sequel i have ever played, and now i am seriously 
 a PS3 fan, no joke. With Home and other great aspects of the PS3, its amazing.
  Xbox 360 is becoming a real let down. 1 vs 100 WTF Microsoft... -.-
  
  I really would tell 
 anyone who like FPS Sci-Shooters to buy this game. Its really a game which u can't miss out.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mailman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:11 pm PT
Review:  Really disappointed. I downloaded the demo for the 1st game, and figured it was so bad mostly because 
 its a couple of years old now and I was being too harsh (on an old game) so I figured I'd skip 
 it and go straight to the critically acclaimed game.
  
  Pretty happy I opted to rent first vs. buy. Graphics are alright but nothing to write home about. 
 Textures are fairly low res, and models can lack detail. It's 720p, so once upscaled doesn't look 
 all that hot on my TV. Lighting is poor and the gamma levels in the game are just so bad I had 
 to crank up my TV's brightness (in the menu I calibrated the set to look best at a value is (-6) , 
 but to see anything in R2 I have to crank it to (+14) . The good part of the graphics though, is 
 the scale. Fighting giant monsters just feels epic and the battle going on really feels like a 
 real battle. It's a shame that this level of realism is lost, however.
  
  I'm a huge fan of FPSs, lets get that straight. This game just doesn't handle like a good FPS. 
 You don't feel like you're getting hit with bullets, the screen simply gets more red. It doesn't 
 look like you're really pumping some alien ******* full of lead... you just hold down the trigger 
 until you see the character flop to the ground. It just doesn't have the feel a good FPS has. Sound 
 as well, falls short. The SFX I had to crank to full to try to get some atmosphere going but the 
 weapons and explosions just don't have the quality you get in a game like Metal Gear Solid 4, or 
 Crysis, for example. 
  
  What you hear and what you see just don't translate to you, the player, feeling like you're actually 
 running around and playing Rambo. Feels more like you're pressing a button and running, hoping 
 the screen doesn't turn too red.
  
  So all and all, I guess I give the graphics a 8/10 and gameplay a 6/10. I was hoping this highly 
 rated game would hold me over until Killzone2, but seems like I'll have to keep looking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-PATRIOT
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 10:31 am PT
Review:  when iheard that was going to be a new resistance coming out i thought finallly the first epic 
 exclusive game has got a sequal this just made me insane with joy but when they said it was set 
 in america i wasnt a huge letdown but a dissapoint ment because then i resides to oh its the americans 
 saving the day again which id say is the oldest cliche ever now there my little **** over with 
 now the gameplay its not bad its just not that good i mean the shootings perfect but the whole 
 enemy ai i cant explain there like a platoon near you when you shooting but for some reason all 
 the enemies shoot at you and only you now i know thats basically what supposed to happen but let 
 me give you an eg now ive just come out the theatre and i find three or four titans walkking towards 
 me and my team but they dont shoot at them no they all shoot at me which is abit annoying and also 
 they somehow decide to put water in every level i know insomniac you got a nice water engine but 
 sheesh just keep it in places that need water anyway beside those minor problems its a prettey 
 sturdy shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 14, 2009 4:04 pm PT
Review:  With Resistance Fall of Man being one of the best games during the launch of the Playstation 3 
 worldwide during end of 2006 for America and Japan, and March 2007 for Europe. 
  If you played through the first game the story shouldn't be problem to go through. After the chimera 
 had been defeated in Great Britain, the war on the chimera still continuing in the United States 
 where Nathan Hale has to help the Americans to take down the chimera. Through out Resistance you'll 
 find out more information about the chimera and how they existed.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played through the first Resistance it's pretty much the same but Resistance 
 2 has a few gameplay elements from Serious Sam series and Call of Duty series. Some guns are the 
 same from the first Resistance like the basic rifle guns or sniper rifles or rocket launchers. 
 
  There are a few new guns but look kind of silly like you get this gun which can fire these razor 
 blades which can slice up enemies. Some enemies in the game you'll have to keep your eyes and ears 
 open because some enemies are camouflage where you can't see them but you'll have to shoot them 
 before they kill you with one hit.
  
  In Resistance 2 there are a few boss fights where you'll be taking out larger enemies' through 
 out single player mode but some bosses are just easy and pointless. 
  There is one fight which you've probably seen at E3 2008 a few months ago where you have to fight 
 this giant titan chimera and you'll be grabbed by the titan chimera wanting to eat you and you'll 
 have to use a rocket launcher to blow its teeth out. 
  
  A good thing about Resistance 2 is it has a strong multiplayer for online PS3 users which most 
 multiplayer matches can take up to 60 players all at once. 
  But in Resistance Fall of Man can play up to 40 players with different matches. Some matches are 
 the same from the first Resistance game which you've got Death Match and Team Death Match. But 
 in Resistance 2 there are a few new features like Core Control which is similar to game capture 
 the flag which you've probably see in other first person shooters. 
  
  Resistance 2 can let you play with 8 other players on cooperative mode where 8 players online. 
 Choose to be a solider, a medic or a member of special Ops division. In cooperative mode you'll 
 be doing tasks and taking down the chimera.
  
  If you don't have online for your PS3 you can play it with a friend. But if you played other first 
 person shooters with a friend you'll be able to play Resistance 2 in split screen where one person 
 has the top screen and the other player has the bottom screen.
  
  Graphics and Sound: The graphics for Resistance 2 is much darker from the first Resistance but 
 pretty similar to other first person shooter games but on next gen which is the PS3, 360 and the 
 PC. The enviroments for Resistance 2 are more larger and more detailed from the first game but 
 look the same from Resistance Fall of Man but once again set in America not in Great Britain or 
 Europe.
  
  There are a few glitches which can bother you at certain parts of the game but odds are there will 
 be updates anyways so there's nothing to worry on that. During gameplay there is also a lot of 
 blood and guts everywhere trying to make look more of a 1950's sci-fi horror film. But overall 
 the graphics look great for a first person shooter for PS3.
  
  The music makes Resistance 2 a dark and scary place during the 1950's but also you'll be hearing 
 a few 50's music or somebody speaking from a radio station if you pass by a radio box while in 
 certain locations in Resistance 2. There's also great voice acting as well from the main charcters 
 but mostly American voicing because Resistance 2 is set in America not in Great Britain which had 
 British accents from most charcters from the first game.
  
  Overall: Single player can take up to more then 10 hours but pending on what difficulty you'll 
 be playing Resistance 2 on. For fans of the series story is kind of disappointing it wasn't good 
 as the first game was on story. But multiplayer online users can be fun and addictive you'll be 
 wanting to play 60 player death match or on team death match which is mad plus trying to be the 
 best player on online rankings. 
  
  There is also trophie support for Resistance 2 if you are looking for a challenge and trying to 
 get all trophies some are easy, some are tricky get so don't rush getting all trophies. 
  
  During this year there will be a PSP version of Resistance Fall of Man where you can connect your 
 PSP with Resistance 2 on your PS3. But there'll be more information soon a few weeks before the 
 PSP version will be released in spring. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps360x
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 1:57 pm PT
Review:  just before i start the 10 hours and less is only about the story mode. I'll start off by saying 
 the 2 very small bad thing and that is the length of story is a bit rushed and some graphics are 
 not as you would expect but this is negletable as the gameplay is amazing and extreamly fun the 
 online is the best online it is actully realy tactical unless u join a noob match. stunning weapons. 
 The AI is the best i'v have seen in a game. the scale is amazing. co-op is also realy good takes 
 some time to get used to though. The online is just so good and intense you will never get bored 
 with it also u have a cod like ranking system for online, co-op and even campaign. Remember this 
 is nothing like the first in many aspects so if u hated the first dont think u will be with this 
 one oh and i will write a better review but in a rush 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KungFuPanda12
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  If i had to sum Resistance 2 up in 2 words, i would have to say "Controlled Chaos," with 60 player 
 online and the ability to fight of hordes of Chimera with friends. This game hs much to offer, 
 but only if you can handle it.
  
  Some of the pros about this game are that you can play coop with friends our on your own against 
 players online. The cooperative mode give you three classes to choose from: one has a sniper that 
 heals teammates, one is a sub-machine gun with a shield, and one that gives ammo to teammates.
 
  One of the things that i liked about Resistance 2 is that you gain XP for every hit you get and 
 you can have a guest online on the same system on a split screen, like in halo.
  
  Some of the cons about this game are that to me, all of the maps look the same (this could just 
 be because i haven't played enough) . Also, i believe that 60 player online is just too many. Whenever 
 i play in lobbies with 60 people i barely do anything before i find someone, so camping may be 
 the way to go with this game. Sometimes you spawn into complete chaos, which could be good or bad 
 depending on how good you are.
  It is also good to know that it takes about ten times more hits with machine gun to get kills than 
 in real life.
  
  In conclusion, Resistance 2 is a game that will rock your world, tickle your fancies, and then 
 throw you to the ground begging for more. Any game that can have 60 players in one game, yet keep 
 it controlled is worth buying in my book. Resistance gives a new definition to the phrase "Controlled 
 Chaos." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eddie5vs1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  For my first GameSpot review I will be reviewing Resistance 2, exclusive to the PlayStation 3. 
 For ease of reading, this review will be broken up into 6 parts. These parts will include graphics, 
 sound, controls, online features, overall presentation/story and closing words. At the end of each 
 section a score for that specific area will be awarded. Hopefully at the end of the review you 
 will know if this game is worth your hard earned $60. 
  
  This review is free of spoilers, so please read further without any fear of having the game/story 
 spoiled for you. 
  
  Graphics:
  It should be noted I played this game on a 40" LCD 1080p Sony Bravia TV and thus there may be differences 
 in displays. There have been several reviews indicating lackluster graphics. The graphics are, 
 IMO, stellar. The enemies are well detailed with the appropriate amount of "shine". The apparatuses 
 on their backs are clearly defined and contrast well with the in game enemies. If there is one 
 thing the developers were going for, it is HUGE bosses and enemies. Bosses are huge, but several 
 enemies you will be fighting throughout the campaign will tower above you. 
  The environments and locales are designed especially well and you will be surprised at the variety 
 of areas you'll explore as you travel across America. Insomniac (the developers of Resistance 2) 
 did an excellent job of creating the atmosphere of an alternate reality of 1950's America through 
 their use of contemporary art, lighting, architecture, etc. 
  My only complaint with R2's graphics is the jaggy edges found throughout levels. They don't appear 
 on enemies or characters, but are rampant throughout the game. It's not horrible, but it is definitely 
 noticeable. I believe this to be due to both the limits of the PS3, as well as Insomniac's decision 
 to offer increased detail, large environments, and large enemies. 
  Graphics Score 9.0 out of 10.0
  
  Sound:
  I played this game using the optical out connected 
 to a 5.1 Kenwood 720W Surround Sound system. Overall sound was pretty good. Users with a surround 
 sounds system will have an advantage of those that do not due to R2's excellent use of directional 
 sound. Low Frequency Effects (LFE's) were good throughout and offered a nice bass effect to explosions, 
 gun fire, etc. My only complaint with sound is that all of the weapons sound "wimpy" for lack of 
 a better term. I expected a louder report or in the case of the rocket launcher, more "oomph" when 
 I pulled the trigger. As this is a significant aspect of the game, this score took a hit. 
  Sound Score 8.5 out of 10.0
  
  Controls:
  I would like to note that I only have a Sixaxis, 
 and thus I can't report on the vibration functions of the DS3 for this review. A friend has one, 
 so if I get the chance to try it out on R2 I will amend this review. 
  Overall the controls were excellent. They were quick and responsive, although using the Far Eye 
 does require some finger yoga (press L1 to zoom, the D pad to zoom further, R2 to slow down time, 
 and then finally R1 to fire) . There are some differences between Resistance: FOM and Resistance 
 2. The biggest difference in controls between Resistance: FOM and Resistance 2: are that in Resistance: 
 FOM you use triangle to melee while Resistance 2 requires the use of R3. The other difference is 
 Resistance: FOM used R3 to zoom while Resistance 2 uses L1. It's not a huge difference, but gamers 
 who played Resistance: FOM a lot may require more time to get accustomed to the controls. 
  Controls Score 8.5 out of 10.0
  
  Online Features:
  Those that are familiar with Xbox Live 
 will feel right at home with Insomniac's excellent use of online features. Resistance 2's online 
 component is so good, I wish Sony would make its features standard across all PSN enabled games, 
 much the same way MS has done with XBL. You click community and you can see friends that are online, 
 check out your clan (or search for one) , look at your stats, etc without ever using the XMB. It's 
 that good. 
  The online features of Resistance 2 are broken up into Competitive and Co-Op. Competitive offers 
 a variety of match types including: Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Core Control, and Skirmish. Death 
 Match and Team Deathmatch are self explanatory. Core Control is basically CTF (Capture the Flag) . 
 Skirmish takes place on a massive 60 player map where players are broken up into squads. Each squad 
 has different objectives to complete. It's these 60 player frag fests that really drive home the 
 importance of dedicated servers. Only once in my time online did I notice any significant lag. 
 
  The Co-Op component is equally good. Players can choose 1 of 3 classes, Soldier, Medic, and Engineer. 
 Insomniac's implementation of these classes is great and forces players to work together. The soldier 
 has the Wraith (a big gun with a 200 hundred round clip) and is able to provide other players with 
 a temporary shield. The Medic's gun drains health from enemies which the player can then disperse 
 to other players. The engineer is similar except he provides his teammates with much needed ammo. 
 Insomniac's implementation of Co-Op is excellent as each play through varies by using different 
 maps, different objectives, etc. 
  Both features (competitive and co-op) allow your character to advance through gaining experience 
 (XP) which allows you to use better guns, different clothing, different "perks", etc. 
  Online Features Score: 10.0 out of 10.0
  
  Overall Presentation/Story:
  I both love and hate 
 it. I think Insomniac did a great job of creating the atmosphere of 1950's America, starting as 
 soon as you read the game manual. I think their art direction also greatly enhanced the atmosphere 
 they were trying to create. My frustration with the storyline in Resistance 2 is that the great 
 concept first introduced in Resistance: FOM isn't really advanced throughout Resistance 2. I think 
 the concept of Resistance is one of the best in gaming but Insomniac just doesn't seem to push 
 it forward much in R2. In fact, the only real story developments come in "intel" you find hidden 
 throughout the game. I would be much happier if the Intel offered extra detail instead of the most 
 of the storyline. The fear I have in regard to using the intel to develop the storyline is that 
 many gamers will not put in the extra time to find all of the intel. Insomniac also uses small 
 50's style radios that you will come upon in the various levels. While it does not fully substitute 
 developing a storyline, it does offer the gamer a cool picture into what is currently going on 
 in American outside of the game world through radio broadcasts. 
  Overall Presentation/Story Score: 9.0 out of 10.0
  
  Closing words: 
  To assign an overall 
 score for the game, I took the score from each section, added them up, and then divided it by the 
 number of total sections. 
  Overall Score of Resistance 2: 9.0 out of 10.0
  This is my first (of hopefully many GS reviews) so please feel free to leave a comment about what 
 you liked, disliked, or have suggestions about. You can also feel free to PM me. Thanks for reading.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fatal-Chaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:44 am PT
Review:  With such a hard act to follow, Resistance 2 manages to give you a excellent sequel and much more. 
 You go through this game again as Nathan Hale, where storey in Resistance 2 does an even better 
 job than the first. In Resistance 2 there are much more main characters, more cut-scenes, and just 
 all round explains what's going on, and why you're doing this. In the first Resistance you mainly 
 went through it on your own which tended to get a bit lonely, however in Resistance 2 you will 
 have NPC's helping you out a lot of the time which in much more comforting, and on top of this 
 they actually to provide good assistance, rather then getting killed in 2 hits.
  
  In the first Resistance Nathan Hale didn't say much, however in Resistance 2 he plays a big role 
 as one of the Lieutenants giving out orders, which makes you feel more involved in what's going 
 on. The graphics and details of the game are even better then the first, making everything feels 
 more intriguing. The main change in Resistance 2 is the fact that they have changed the controls, 
 where Resistance 1 had controls sort of like Halo, Resistance 2 controls are more like COD4, which 
 isn't a bad thing because they feel more realistic. For example you will need to use the aim button 
 to be able to kill your enemies more effectively, rather than just having every shot hit them.
 
  
  Resistance 2 provides even better AI, giving you up to 30+ types of different monsters to face, 
 and some massive boss fights. The AI aren't as hard and cunning as the first Resistance but they 
 still provide great entertainment. In Resistance 2 you can only carry 2 weapons at a time, however 
 they leave the option of other weapons readily available to use at key times in the game, so you 
 will never feel like you need to go back and grab a weapon which you needed. The same old weapons 
 are available such as the Carbine and Bullseye only in Resistance they give an even bigger range 
 of weapons to use such as the Pulse Cannon and the Wraith.
  
  Resistance 2 also has a great online system, where you can play Competitive or Cooperative modes, 
 both are different but are loads of entertainment. There are also plenty of gear, upgrades, trophies, 
 medals and more to unlock for your profile as well, making everything even more worthwhile.
  
  If you enjoyed the first Resistance and were looking to give this game a go, you would be crazy 
 not to, Resistance 2 is a sequel no one should miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liverpool1993
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 5:11 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2, with all its hype left me with high expectations. I expected good but it gave me 
 better. Its immersible campaign is more than enough to impress any gamer out there, with its strong 
 story line, wide array of enemies and weapons. Infact the game leaves you with a emotional bond 
 towards the character Nathan Hale, especially the ending ;) wink. Being not too long and action 
 packed it left me on the edge of my seat, wanting more and more. I could actaully stand there and 
 stare the beautifully created world of resistance, the chimeran battleships in the air, the misty 
 woods, or the creepy spire infested towns. Now besides this campaign. 
  
  Multiplayer on resistance 2 is unbelievable. Lag free ( 80% of the time ) even with 60 player battles. 
 Competitive proves to be a great challenge and team deathmatches are very fun. Cooperative however 
 was my favourite part of the entire game. I was, and am currently hooked on to it. Completing missions 
 with 8 friends/teammates, battling waves of chimeras could not be any funner. The 3 classes you 
 can choose are all great ( although i prefer spec ops/ medic ) . 
  
  Am sorry for this short review but i dont really have much time, nor the words i say can express 
 truthfully how much i love this game, its simply a must try and a must have.
  Resistance 2 FTW (:, thanks for reading my review by the way, havent made one in ages.
  
  
 
  Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xazeus
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:06 am PT
Review:  The Bad:
  An enjoyable game, but as I said it's very reminiscent of playing DOOM. One issue I had was the 
 recycling of environments, such as the same suitcase seen in multiple places, the same metallic/rectangular 
 structures/consoles seen throughout countless buildings, chairs, wallpaper, radios, walls (I mean, 
 really? Everyone in the town is framing their basements at the same time?)
  There would be a "rippling" water-effect on ceilings where there was either no water in the room 
 at all, or not enough to justify the effect. 
  
  The Good:
  The enemies were better than most games, unquestionably. The size variations and movement were 
 great. Also, there are a number of elements that Insomniac has perfected: Metallic surfaces (as 
 seen in Ratchet and Clank Future: Tools of Destruction) , glass work, and impressively the dynamics 
 of water movement (very impressive when walking around) .
  Great for fans of FPS's and certainly worth playing through. I will assume that the greatest focus 
 and alure of the game is its multiplayer gameplay. If you're into multiplayer, then this game is 
 worth getting for that alone.
  
  While redundant, the game is ambitious with its miriad of environments, but doesn't 'quite' deliver 
 a discerning sense of reality in any of them. I certainly wouldn't reiterate the 9.0 rating it's 
 gotten (I mean, CoD: WaW only received an 8.5, which is a superior game in every possible aspect, 
 barring multiplayer) . However, like I said, it's worth the ride.
  
  xa_zeus 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 10, 2009 7:58 am PT
Review:  Graphics-8
  Gameplay-10
  Sound-7
  Replay Value-8
  
  
  In short, Resistance 2 is exactly what a sequel should bring. It doesn't necessariley give alot 
 of new gameplay mechanics to offer withs its overall gameplay scheme, but still improves on virtually 
 everything R FoM did right and even fix some of the things it done wrong.
  
  That said, R2 can safely be put under your typical FPS category. All the same basic formula's are 
 here but it still gives you a top quality equivalent to all of these classic formula's.
  
  R2 offers you three different sections to fire these typical formula's through.
  It has its single 
 player campaign, which isn't exactly the highlight, is still a fantastic and memorable 10-12 hours 
 or so. Its utter tension throughout will never cease to have you worry for this alternate reality's 
 human race.
  
  Throughout the single player you'll come across hordes of chimera of all sizes ranging from your 
 humanoid hybrids to 80 ft tall chaotic monsters that look like something that could find themselves 
 going up against Godzilla in a soon-to-be released japanese sequel. You'll traverse through a number 
 of enviroments, some rather bland, mostly the chimeran shuttle areas that all have that yawnz look 
 of them with shiny futuristic walls and high-tech hexagon buttons and switchs. The greatest to 
 behold in its single player is definatly the American Cities' which are all now more or less become 
 one giant brothel for the Chimera with eggs littered everywere.. charmin. Chicago espiecally will 
 show you alot of wreckage and sure going around America's streets fighting aliens is all done before, 
 plenty of times, but R2 could possibly make that war-ground idea popular again I'de say.
  
  Some other notable changes from R-FoM's campaign is no more co-op, which is a shame but easy to 
 overlook with its own delightful replacment, and Nathan Hales pockets being thinned so he can now 
 only carry 2 weapons at a time. That again works well and adds much more suspension and the need 
 to make every bullet count. Fortunatly, the weapon that you'll probably be wishing you had for 
 the current situation will appear soon enough, so weapon choice is still fluid and accessible. 
 Weapons overall this time have had abit of an overall haul too. Many weapons have been made extinct 
 but have still been replaced with many new destructive toys to dismember chimera with. Favourites 
 include the Splicer, which can cut off Chimeran limb's, which is always a treat to see, espiecally 
 the zombie like 'Grims' as they charge at you only to have their legs dismembered, great stuff.
 
  
  So an overly epic and sizable campaign mode with 4 difficulties and plenty of trophies that will 
 require multiple playthroughs, R2's single player is a dominant success, only gripe is its abrubt 
 and frankly 'cheap' ending.
  
  Once you've managed to squeeze every bit of blood and guts out of every Chimeran scum Nathan has 
 to contend with, you then have plenty more with its much lengthier co-op campaign. Ranging from 
 2-8 players, you will assign yourself one out of three class' to play as all suited to match everyones 
 MMO choices. Theres the 'Tank' soldier class, the 'damager dealer' Special Ops and of course everyones 
 favourite overpowered 'healer' Medic class.
  
  All three vary in practically every aspect from their weapons to health to how they gain exp boosts. 
 You could just constantly switch through class' per level, but theres plenty of reason to stick 
 with a class to level up due to how many upgrades and new weapons become available. The ways to 
 purchase the majority of upgrades is through its currency called 'Grey Tech' which is some sort 
 of peculiar type of resource that seems to play a pivotal role in the co-op campaign's ''story''. 
 
  
  The co-op campaign may be sizable and rather varied with multiple difficultie settings, which are 
 set by how many players are in session, and many different area's to slay through (including some 
 locations from R-FoM) , but it still does have alot of blank spots. One is from the missions themselves, 
 each area has around 8-12 missions or so, but each mission consists of the same 3 sections just 
 in different order, the different order of sections will determine the end boss, but for the most 
 part you will eventually be running through the exact same objectives per mission. Whats more, 
 while a story is evident throughout, thanks to the intel your treated too before each mission, 
 theres no cutscenes or anything like that, and again even with so much information in terms of 
 the intro's, it doesn't match just what your doing. You'll be constantly destroying that same STALKER 
 or taking down those same Titan's yet that seems to get you closer to finding Daudelus??...
  
  Ah well, besides the lack of story amidst the gameplay, the intro's per level still give plenty 
 of extra insight into R2's overall story and sheds alot of light on plenty of plot specific-segments.
 
  
  Then of course there is R2's competitive multiplayer, which isn't anything special in all regards. 
 Sure it can have matchs that can contain up to 60 players, but its not down to how many players 
 are in play, but the game modes themselves imo to which makes the competitive multiplayer fun. 
 Sure its still enjoyable and plenty of trophies require you to do some rather impressive feats 
 in the competitive multiplayer, but the lack of innovating game modes does sort of make R2's competitive 
 side seem very 'plain'
  
  Whats there is your standard deathmatch/team-deathmatch, Capture the core, which is yet another 
 varient on capture the flag and Skirmish mode. Which is actually R2's less interesting C-M gamemode 
 imo. It varies around squads performing different objectives, but these objectives literally boil 
 down to 2, you will etheir find yourself trying to take over or defend a beacon, or trying to kill 
 or defend a specific player. With you constantly doing the same objectives for so long I frankly 
 found myself not bothering with skirmish and just playing through deathmatchs most of the time.
 
  
  With all that typed though R2's C-M has all the basics to keep you coming from ranks to unlockable 
 skins to show off to other players to a still very fun take on everyones favourite three C-M game 
 modes. Skirmish may be a hit and miss effort, but the other three still stand strong as enjoyable, 
 bloody and with servers full of foreigners to kill... virtually
  
  How everything plays is very fluid and responsive, R2 is a rather hard game at times, but its down 
 to some very coniviing AI and not gameplay faults or technical issues.
  Graphically its certaintly not the best out there, but still gives alot to see and the character 
 models at least are impressive. R2 is also much more bloodier than its predeccesor, which is always 
 a good thing, limbings flying through the sky and paiting the enviroments red will be a common 
 occurence throughout R2.
  
  Sound is rather good too, the single player has some solid voice acting, but passable script, and 
 the sound effects are all appropiate, the bullseye is as menacing as ever and those hedghog grenades 
 should still force an 'OHHH SH1T'. Music though isn't very prominent though, the single player 
 campaigns soundtrack is entertaining yet forgetful and the co-op and competitive don't even have 
 any background music oddly enough.
  
  Overall R2 is definatly a must have for any ps3 owner. Its a sure truimpth for the ps3 offering 
 an addictive multiplayer experience and memorable single player campaign, to which its ending clearly 
 shouts out a sequel... its too bad they couldn't of done it a little more subtley.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nally123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:31 pm PT
Review:  When i started playing Resistance fall of man i thought it was great after i finished i said i 
 hope they make a sequel to this and they did so i played and i am not disappointed the game isn't 
 short its about and average first person shooter the graphics are good and the artificial intelligence 
 is good the difficulty of this game is just right so thats why i gave this game a 9.5 its not perfect 
 but it is superb the story of this game i like even though i don't like the the World War 2 theme 
 i like this one because it is fast paced action also i like the weapons they are good also before 
 i started Resistance 1 and 2 i wasn't a fan of the alien enemies but then when i finished playing 
 it i was a fan of it I like how the making another Resistance on the PSP hopefully it is a good 
 as this one 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EricFWaters
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:25 am PT
Review:  As the Campaign mode opens and your dropship is smashed and battered by gunfire you have by now 
 already realized two things. 
  
  One, the graphics are a mixed bag. The scenery is gorgeous; bigger, farther reaching and more colourful 
 than the grey world at war tone of the first. The characters vary in quality; Nathan hale is carefully 
 rendered and mapped where as Blake, your superior officer seems thrown together and out of proportion. 
 Once gameplay starts, however, even these minor character flaws are defeated by how breathtaking 
 everything else in the world is.
  
  Second, the story is cliche. Not just the usual stereotypes you tend to find in games such as the 
 token black guy on your team and the gunner who constantly tells you when you turn, he's gonna 
 take you out. But every part of the story seems to be pieced together from other war and alien 
 movies (including a scene involving sneaking onto a Chimeran floating fortress a la Independence 
 Day) .
  
  But because the story is only a means of progressing the action, it can be overlooked.
  
  What 
 cannot be overlooked is the game's difficulty. The game is incredibly hard at many points, often 
 pitting you against two Leviathans with huge flame throwers while equipped with little more than 
 a revolver and a rifle. Team mates also take their sweet time taking out turrets at points and 
 they often rely on you to provide cover fire for them, which would be alright if the shots didn't 
 need to be taken in the line of fire of the turrets and other enemies. Needless to say, most people 
 will either fling their controllers at the screen or seeth with rage and take it out verbally on 
 any poor person caught in the crossfire.
  
  Co-operative is hard as hell offline. But it is also as fun and addictive as it is difficult. No 
 matter how many times me and my friends are raped in split screen combat, we still laugh and load 
 up the next round.
  
  As I don't oft get a chance to go on the Playstation network, I can't speak as to the massively 
 multiplayer competitive rounds but I hear that the offline features are quite spectacular.
  
  But even as an offline game, Resistance 2 is well worth the wait and, if you can handle all 
 its more rage-inducing situations, well worth purchasing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metallica4mayor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:44 pm PT
Review:  *WARNING THE FOLLOWING REVIEW HAS SPOILERS, READ AT YOUR OWN PERIL!!! Resistance 2 is like Fall 
 of Man except better. Sure theres no veichles this time around. SO F*CKING WHAT?!! I also thought 
 that the new 2 weapon rule would break the game, how wrong i was. The weapons are pretty cool, 
 my personal favorites are the Auger, because it lets you see through walls, and is way better than 
 Fall of Man's version, and the Bullseye Mark 2 because it can lock on to Chimera and thats always 
 awesome. The enemies are awesome, and know how to take cover (still mad at World at War because 
 of that lol) and the only ones that seem to hard are those giants from Resistance FOM that blow 
 up when you kill them. I was also dissapointed that the huge dog things from FOM didnt appear in 
 the sequel. The little worker Chimera also didnt make the catch for Resistance 2, as instead is 
 replaced by Tall grey chimera who run at you, and come in swarms, and if you dont have the Shotgun, 
 or the Magumum, then your screwed. *SPOILERS SPOILERS SPOILERS* i love the part when youre in the 
 deserted building that has no lights, and you have to fight swarms of them. Well im talking about 
 spoilers this is an even bigger SPOILER! If insomniac made a Resistance 3, i would love it to be 
 that the Chimeras revive Hale, and make them one of there own leading to the end of the Human race.*END 
 OF SPOILERS* For people who like Resistance Fom: Get this game when you have the chance, dont pass 
 it up. For Fom haters: trust me this is much better than Resistance Fall of Man, and now follows 
 the traditional FFS. This game gets a well deserved 9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silencio9285
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:38 pm PT
Review:  So this was the first game i got for my ps3, and it blew me away. It has one of the best single 
 player campaigns i have ever played and the multiplayer is simply amazing.
  
  The graphics are great, the levels are huge, the boss fights are great, and the weapons are original. 
 Its cool how every weapon has a secondary weapon and all the weapons in this game are useful.
 
  
  The multiplayer was the best part of this game. The competitive is good. There are 4 different 
 modes deathmatch, team deathmatch, skrimish and core control. All these modes are amazing but my 
 absolute favourite part of this game is the online co-op. It supports up to 8 players, and it really 
 requires you to work together. I like this part because it forces you to work together as each 
 class depends on the others to survive.
  
  My only complaints about this game are that the story wasn't great and the control scheme got me 
 confused sometimes, i kept crouching by accident.
  
  Overall this game is amazing. 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dandruff461
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  the game was OK. i think the graphics were great. And it was kinda cool because in R2 Nathan hale 
 actually speaks. There were afew interesting new weapons too ( and some are really fun to play with) 
 but the game was so very predictable. you couldn't have more than 2 weapons at a time. *there's 
 a bazooka here... hmm... big guy around the corner?*
  It had a pretty good story-telling aspect with a surprising ending that leaves you wondering what 
 R3 (if there will be one) will be about. R1 online owned. it was intense and even some might say 
 it rivaled COD4 ( at that time) . but R2's online mode reminded me too much of halo and i was quickly 
 bored with it. it's all right but you definable get more into the game withR1 it's a definite must 
 have if you're a fan of the series *me*, but I'd recommend renting it, don't buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ErkiB
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that this review is probably my hardest yet and with that I mean that 
 I really have put alot of thought into what Im saying. Ill go Into alot of details so READ IT IF 
 YOU WANT TO GET A DETAILED REVIEW.
  
  IM going to split them up into sections so you can choose want you want to read. Its long so you 
 might just have to do that.
  
  1. The Campaign is definetly every games focus in one time or another and this time they really 
 wanted you to get to know the characters a bit more with more intel drops and more interesting 
 gadgets. More history of why everything is the way it is and why it has not gone away yet. Also you 
 will be going through many different exciting maps like being in a chimeran space ship and basically 
 running through the US to stop them.
  
  Sadly there is not Offline CO-OP in this sequel which made me wonder why did they take it out? One 
 reason why the first game was a success was because of the ability to play it with friends. It is 
 not a big loss but still takes some interest out of the game for some. It also focuses alot on the 
 appeal of the game so you will see alot of very well done Cut-Scenes with perfect voice overs that 
 will hook you into the game. The controls are easy to handle ,only a couple of new re-installments 
 but nothing new to a PS3 owner. Will take you about 10 minutes to understand the controls.
  
  2. Now the Storyline is very interesting. You need to have played the first game to understand 
 the second which makes it a bit hard to understand if you havnt played Fall of man. Storyline has 
 many things going on you dont expect and encounter old and new Chimeras that still want to rip 
 Nathans head off. Overall without spoiling the story I have to say that its a great storyline. very 
 intense ending and alot to look forward to.
  
  Some have said that the storyline is bad..... I dont understand how a storyline can be bad when 
 Nathan Hale struggles to survive and serve his country even if it means doing whatever possible. Its 
 a great storyline and beats Halo2 and Gears 2 story by miles and miles.
  
  3. Online gameplay is probably the most interesting aspect just because it is so good. I personally 
 am a campaign guy who loves to play the campaign but this game makes you focus on the online alot 
 more then in the last game where the online experience was minor.
  
  You can play CO-OP (Which is a 8 player game where you kill chimeras) missions where you do fun objectives 
 and very dangerous ones. About 6 different maps to mayhem on and up to 12 intel per map to get.
 
  
  Other way is Competetive, There are different game modes including deathmatch (All vs all) , Team Deatmatch 
 (Team vs team) , Skirmish, Core Control. All of them are great and very fun.
  
  Also you can level up your characters on each. by that I mean that you can level up your chars in 
 the co-op where there are 3 classes and competetive where you level up your soldier and chimera. New 
 gear, weapons, armor, suits and so on make it that much more exciting.
  
  BTW You Can play CO-OP split screen with a friend. That means you and your friend hotseat split 
 screen together with other 6 people going against chimeras... NICE isnt it.
  
  Graphics and Sound are the main factors in a game. before you start making agame you have to find 
 a level of graphics you think it will be good with. This game surpasses great graphics and gives 
 MGS4 and GTA4 a run for its money. R2 Displays its flashy graphics in all its glory from outstating 
 detailing on weapons and the stylish handy work made with the terrain of the world.
  
  The Sounds are as before, GREAT. Nothing bad to say about the sound as it is a lil bit similar to 
 the first game but what did you expect right. Im happy with it and so you guys should be too but 
 it all honesty I like the sound alot more in R2 than in R1 because its feels more vibrant you know 
 like the chimeras feel more real when you kill em.
  
  Chimeras are as allways very well done. Phenomenal graphics have made the chimera even more outstanding. There 
 are new monsters from the high as a skyscraper Leviathan to the small leapers and spinners. Grims 
 are also the huge factor in the game that are sometimes fast, slow and just out of control. not that 
 hard to hit but Grims put the tension in the game. there is nothing more spookier that going through 
 a dark as the night house with only your flashlight and your weapon and seeing Grims chasing you 
 and trying to rip you flesh off.
  
  OVERALL: This game surpasses all expectations just beause it is alot more than you would expect... if 
 you are looking for another boring First person shooter this is not one of them. This FPS is like 
 no other and is probably the best FPS on PS3 yet. Great storyline with amazing cut-scenes, Campaign 
 that will make you wonder whats up next and whats going on with Nathan. Hale is probably the best 
 game character ever made because you get so attached to him for his style and his passion to kill 
 the chimera. Online is a great experience. Graphics are great and btw the weapons are juicy and filled 
 with bullets. Great dexture and amazing detailing that will drop you jaw to the floor. And the sound 
 is top-notch.
  
  This was my review, It was very long but I hope you enjoyed it. I hope you read it but if you di 
 not. Its not a problem the just check out my ratings right here .quick and fast Ill give you my 
 top 5 ratings and then you can decide if it is for you-
  
  Campaign:9/10
  Storyline:10/10
  Online:10/10
  Graphics & Sound:10/10
  Characters:10/10
  
  Have a good 
 one guys and give me thumbs up or down depending on if you liked my review. Now dont forget to buy 
 Resistance 2, It is worth it, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 2:53 pm PT
Review:  a disclaimer before we start, my review of resistance one may have been a bit over done, maybe 
 it was the fact that I was happy to get a Playstation 3, but that is behind us now.
  
  The original was a launch game for the Playstation 3 and was voted the 2nd best exclusive by screw 
 attack. com. The first game was set in England, during an invasion of mutant like thing called Chimera, 
 the game played from a narative by a woman by the name of Parker.
  Resistance 2 picks up right where number one left off, and will drop you straight into the action 
 of the game, where you have to kill a giant walking machine called the goliath, this time around 
 you can't hold every weapon at once, only 2 weapons, but then again it means you don't have to 
 cycle through several weapons to get the one you want.
  The story still leaves several things unexplained and ends with a cliff hanger, plus several things 
 from the first game have not been answered.
  The co-op is a new concept, first off, you have a class system. There are 3 playable classes, soldier 
 that has a chain gun, a medic who heals people and a spec ops who hands out ammunition. The co-op 
 this time has its own missions set, often consisting of kill this enemy, secure this point, get 
 to here. Each class has a level system up to 30, getting up levels gives you new guns and new beserk 
 moves. 
  The online has been upgraded, now you have 60 players on one match (30vs30) . You choose your weapon 
 you want to spawn with and also your beserk (special move) which activate when you get 1000 exp, 
 these range from more powerful ammunition or the ability to see everyone on your map. The game 
 modes are your standard deathmatch, capture the flag (core control) and even a new mode called 
 skirmish, which puts you into squads and gives you objectives to do over the course of the game, 
 such as kill this person or capture this node.
  In short, if you like the first or your just a fan of online games then this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bald546
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 9:39 am PT
Review:  I bought this game with great expectations because the first one blew me away. Not because of the 
 graphics or technical stuff, which was really cool, but for the fun of playing it. I really enjoyed 
 it a lot.
  
  Well, this time things have changed, the game is easier and surprisingly short. Maybe this due 
 to the fact that it's too easy and you can progress very fast, but the levels are short and only 
 seven. You can't even drive vehicles like in the first Resistance.
  
  The big bosses at the end of some levels are easier to kill than standard chimeras, so I didn't 
 even get a little scared or impressed.
  The most difficult enemies are the zombie chimeras that come running in massive numbers, and it 
 bothered me, no fun.
  
  Some massive combats with lots of chimeras and machines were great, but the game ends soon and 
 leaves me with hunger for more. Seems like the half of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 3:40 am PT
Review:  well i loved the 1 one and i like this but the game so easy to do u. can do it in a day. the boss 
 are the bigest iv ever seen in eney game. but ther too easy to kill. and the wost part of the game 
 is thers no jeeps or cars or tanks u get to drive . and thers only 3 new weapons from the 1 game 
 . but i would say the game comes up thick and fast .and all so when u come up to the bigest boss 
 in eney game, its a joy to watch and play but its all over too fast and u never really in eny danger 
 has u got the larck. 3 hits with this and it dead. so are most of the boss u come across. it not 
 as hard as the 1 one. the cut sceens are not wow i want to see that agine and i dont think its 
 got replay value . if u havent got online forget it. its not worth u money its only a 8 h game. 
 but the online saves it . u can have 60 players online at once and thers lot to do online u can 
 play story mode with 8 players and so on biger dose not all ways meen better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlebigdude44
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Oh my, oh my, oh my. I have been appalled by review scores before; Ratchet and Clank Future getting 
 a 7.5 on Gamespot, The Force Unleashed getting a 5.6 from EGM, MGS4 getting an 8 from Eurogamer 
 and Edge. But THIS, this just makes me sick to my stomach. Not only is Resistance 2 one of the 
 best shooters this generation, it also has arguably the only online multiplayer better than COD4. 
 Yet, I am now seeing reviews from even "credible" websites such as EDGE ONLINE that are giving 
 what was is essentially a perfect, alien COD4 mod a 6 out of 10. It is really disheartening, especially 
 considering that some of those same websites gave great scores to games that are not as good by 
 any means. And at the risk of starting a flame war, I'm willing to reveal that all of the games 
 that recieved triple A scores were either multiplatfrom or XBOX 360 EXCLUSIVES, the latter likely 
 for a reason not entirely based on quality. Yes, LBP got a 10, but look at the trend of double 
 or even single A scores on Edge for PS3 exclusive games, and then LBP's miraculous perfection, 
 and you may realize that the score was fabricated to prevent gamer's like me from discovering this 
 bias. Sure, I like many 360 games, but Left 4 Dead (which on Edge recieved a 9) has nowhere near 
 the amount of content, and not as much quality as Resistance 2.
  
  But if that wasn't bad enough, Edge's weight in determining good games nowadays is actually starting 
 to spread to us, the gamer community. Gamers all over the Gamespot forum and elsewhere have been 
 awarding Resistance 2 scores of 3 out of 10 and LOWER. Games that bad should be unplayable to the 
 point of customer insanity, which Resistance is the exact opposite of. But enough stating the injustice. 
 Now I am going to prove the reviewers wrong, by showing you how incredible Insomniac's flagship 
 game this year can be.
  
  To start, I love myself some eye candy, and Resistance 2 does not disappoint. Sure, the rare framerate 
 hitch, screen tear, or blurry texture does appear, but put it in perspective. Many shooters have 
 these problems fairly frequently throught their campaign and multiplayer offerings, and they can't 
 render monsters as big as buildings on their screens. Resistance 2 can. The cutscenes use a motion 
 capture camera that gives beautiful, dynamic angles. In every level you play through, you are guaranteed 
 to find something that lets you know that Insomniac went the extra mile, like the crazy battle 
 with the immense Kraken in the San Francisco level, or the onslaught of DOZENS of Grims that attack 
 you all at once half way through the Little Falls, Idaho level that feels like something from the 
 movie 28 Days Later. Every enemy has a great, scary, undeniably alien design, and the different 
 forms from the tarantula-esque Leapers to the cloaking chameleons are appreciated. Then when you 
 get to the multiplayer, it doesn't let up, showing you some great maps and 60 PLAYERS all on screen 
 at once without the slightest bit of lag. Simply put, the game looks GORGEOUS.
  
  The sound is great, too. All of the guns sound appropriate. You will get a nice rumbling, rattle-like 
 sound from the human Carbine machine gun and the Wraith chain gun. At the same time, Chimeran weapons 
 like the Bullseye and the Auger have that signature, alien, high pitched ringing that makes you 
 think you stole the weapon from somebody in Star Wars. Plus, the soundtrack has many high tension 
 tunes, which sound perfect and at the same time don't get in the way of the shooting. And believe 
 me, this sci fi FPS has the shooting in spades.
  
  The controls are pretty standard COD. You fire with the R1, zoom aim with L1, aim the gun normally 
 with one analog, and run around with the other. Sprinting is a slight button tap, and grenades 
 are mapped to the triangle button ( I think. I remember it being one of the face buttons other 
 than X, heh, heh) . You hold two weapons at a time like COD, and you can pick up weapons from dead 
 enemies. You can switch between these weapons if you want by pressing one of the face buttons. You 
 can also crouch and go prone by tapping R3. This led to some of the comments about it being a basic 
 FPS, but this is unwarranted, as Resistance 2 is anything but basic FPS.
  
  R2 is alternate fire. Many games have had great weapons before, and many have had great uses of 
 the alternate fire technique, but here Insomniac re-proves that it is king when it comes to weapon 
 design. Among the game's over a dozen different guns and grenades, you are bound to find at least 
 one that you will love. The Auger, for example, quick shoots its primary ammo, which are energy 
 bullets that can drill throught walls, and can show your enemeies silhouettes throught barriers. 
 The alternate fire shoots off a stationary shield that can only be penetrated by other Auger fire, 
 which only one of the game's enemies posseses. Another weapon, one which Resistance: Fall of Man 
 did not posses, the Magnum, is a powerful, secondary weapon pistol that does not impress. That 
 is until you tap R2, which then detonates up to six shots you fired that are within close range 
 like frag grenades. This is great for detonating a dead hybrid's body to kill off any of his surrounding 
 friends. Or you could simply detonate someone who survived the initial shot, sending them to a 
 fiery grave. The great thing about Resistance's weapons is that, from the nature of the Magnum's 
 explosive shots, to the L23 Fareye sniper's ability to slow down time, to the enigmatic Bullseye's 
 ability to home in on an opponent, they are constantly creating new combat styles that would be 
 considered idiotic in previous games. What other shooter can you name where it is smart to bring 
 a slow, clunky sniper to an all-out, 30-man, firefight? Exactly. And all of this controls excellently.
 
  
  Some may complain the game is so challenging it isn't fun. These people are not stupid people; 
 they just aren't hardcore FPS fans. Yes, the game is difficult, and sections like the chameleon 
 territory in the Orick, California level can send you back to the last checkpoint several times, 
 but the game makes sure it is almost always your fault when you die. Chameleons can be heard and 
 even seen a few seconds before they lunge in for their one-hit-kill, and they go down pretty easily 
 if you can manage to shoot them. Bosses are powerful, but they have a fairly defined, weak spot 
 that you can use to great advantage when you find it. Really, the game feels just right in its 
 single player difficulty, and anyone who says otherwise either gives up too easily or isn't very 
 good at shooters.
  
  Now we have multiplayer, one of the bigger hype points for the game. Well Resistance absolutely 
 DELIVERS. There are several maps in the competitive game, each with different forms designed to 
 fit the different amounts of players. Each maps is well designed with sniper spots, intelligent 
 respawn areas, open areas for large firefights, tight corridors for deadly surprises, and everything 
 else you may ask for. The game modes are great, including favorites like Team Deathmatch and Capture 
 the Flag. Then there is Skirmish, which gives your up-to-30-man team several objectives to complete 
 for experience points. These objectives direct both teams to the middle of the map, where finally 
 a massive firefight ensues. It is all smartly done and a welcome addition to the game modes. 
 
  
  In competitive, you can choose to have your character play anyway you want. You can choose any 
 primary weapon you want to spawn with, and in similar fashion to COD, you get to pick your Berserk 
 perks. These perks do things like improve your radar, and while they are not as fleshed out as 
 the perks in COD4 and COD: World at War, they bring great variety to the fragfest. The ones you 
 can choose also can change based on whether you play as a human soldier or Chimeran hybrid. There 
 is lot of strategy to choosing your perks. Likewise, you can customize the rules of your matches, 
 changing anything from regenerating to non regenerating health bars, to simply how many players 
 you want. You can also play either custom or ranked matches, and the leaderboards for the ranked 
 matches are nicely organized. Insomniac has allowed you to play pretty much however you want here, 
 and as usual, it feels great.
  
  Then there is cooperative mode. Unfortunately, the single player campaign cannot be played with 
 a friend online or offline like the original, but Insomniac made up for this with a unique, up-to-8-player 
 online coop campaign. While it takes some getting used to, it is safe to say nothing this insane 
 or cool has ever been done to a console shooter in a LONG time. You and your buddies go roaming 
 around open levels based on the single player campaign while completing objectives such as protecting 
 a stronghold for points. However, given your assistance, the enemies are now allowed to come from 
 all sides, which they will do without a second thought. They are also a lot tougher now, and your 
 health bar doesn't regenerate here either. But even if you die, your squad mates can revive you, 
 and you will respawn automatically after 30 seconds as long as at least one player survives until 
 then. If everyone does die, your team will be transported back to the last checkpoint in the mission. 
 You go into these missions after picking a class. You have a choice of Medic, Special Operative, 
 and Soldier. Medics have a health-giving gun similar to the one found in Team Fortress 2. Soldiers 
 have a lot of health and the campaign's Wraith gatling gun to wreak havok on the Chimera with. 
 Finally, Spec Ops have the powerful Marksman rifle, and they can throw ammo to their squad mates 
 if need be. By doing each of their respective jobs and exploiting their unique techniques, players 
 of any of the three classes can gain experience. This experience gaining adds up with experience 
 gained through the competitive multiplayer and repeated campaign plays to help you gain levels. 
 Gaining levels earns you new ranks, and it unlocks new weapons and skins for you to use. This steady, 
 RPG- style system is just as addictive as it was in COD4, and you will undoubtedly become obsessed 
 with it. 
  Finally we get to the scope of the game, which is the sole area that was not polished to a radiant 
 sheen from the last game. Here it is more of a mixed bag. The pro of it all is that Resistance 
 2 has a visual scale that neither the original Resistance or many other games can match. As I mentioned 
 previously, all of the levels feature something so big and crazy that your jaw will drop off of 
 your face. Absolutely every boss you meet is intimidating, extremely detailed, and most importantly, 
 as big as the screen allows it to be. For example, one short cutscene from the Chicago level turns 
 the first person camera to the left, where you see a monster, the Leviathan, so large that it seems 
 bigger than your house even on a TV screen. Soon after, you realize you will need to FIGHT that 
 behemoth later.
  
  The game's only major con is the questionable story. While not bad like the Gamespot and Giant 
 Bomb review says, it is a bit shakey, and does little to let you know more about where and how 
 the Chimera came to be than the last game. And then, at the end of the game, it leaves you with 
 a disappointing cliffhanger, similar to Halo 2's story. Obviously, Insomniac will not let the series 
 end without a least a third installment (Retribution is not FPS and is not on the PS3; it doesn't 
 count) , but a little more closure would have been nice. Plus, while a badass should act like a 
 badass, Nathan Hale is a little too cold this time around, and feels more like a machine of infinite 
 destruction than a breathing human soldier. But if you go into an action game asking for an incredible 
 story and refuse to play the game if you don't get one, then you don't appreciate what this genre 
 and its sub-genres are good at. Seriously, go read a book, or play an RPG at least.
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 is one of the best shooters I have ever played, PS3 or not. Though the 
 story may not be top-tier, the controls are great, the technical and artistic presentation is awesome, 
 and the multiplayer options are simply spectacular. Between the well designed, appropriately challenging 
 single player, the incredibly, addictive competitive multiplayer, and the insane cooperative mode, 
 few games will give you this much value and quality for just 60 dollars. This is a must own title 
 for the PS3, and any fan of shooters NEEDS to try it out. Insomniac, congratulations. You have 
 done it again.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tennis12master
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 7, 2009 4:11 pm PT
Review:  I am very picky when it comes to games. I read almost every article, every review I can find before 
 I spend my hard-earned money on a video game. Almost every website I searched had positive reviews 
 for Resistance 2, so I decided to give it a shot. So, I powered up the system, inserted the disc, 
 and felt pumped to finally play the game everyone is talking about. Took me 2 days to beat the 
 campaign, not very surprising since FPS campaign's seem to always be short (Most of them, at least) . 
 And I have to say, great single-player story. Now, I'm not gonna spoil anything for people who 
 have not passed the campaign, but I have to say the ending was not expected. The story was overall 
 pretty well done, and the enemies... Whoa. The Chimera have never seemed so life-like before, scratch 
 that, no AI has seemed that life-like before (When I say life-like, I mean battle-tactics wise. 
 They dive out of the way when you throw a grenade, take cover when you fire at them, and rush into 
 cover when getting shot at. Pretty amazing tech there) . Speaking of the game's tech, the environments, 
 enemies, and almost everything is amazing. I marveled at the sight of almost 40 chimera hybrids 
 running full speed at my character. And, as a first, an FPS with actual Boss fights! Well, maybe 
 not the first, but I must praise this game's boss fights. Well thought-out, intense fun, and amazing 
 overall. Basically, the game's campaign is really good. Now, onto the online mode. One basic team 
 deathmatch played, and I'm already disapointed. I applaud Insomniac games for being able to get 
 up to 60 players in one match while still maintaining a solid frame rate, I really do. But the 
 online mode just seems not much fun nonetheless. Lastly, the co-op campaign. When I first heard 
 of this idea of the co-op campaign being a completely seperate story from the single-player campaign, 
 I was interested. But after playing a bit of it, I can say it is dull and boring. Now remember, 
 this is all one person's opinion, and some people may enjoy it, but I did not like it one bit. 
 The whole class system which the co-op campaign goes by feels very gimmicky and not very well put 
 together. OVERALL, I consider this a very good rental. Short yet very well made campaign, disapointing 
 online modes, equals a perfect rental. I'm glad I bought this game used, now I can return it and 
 get something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:41 pm PT
Review:  The low down:
  The game is fun to play and I am not really a fan of fps (first person shooter) , but I have to 
 make an exception to this one. If this game had lean around corners from a covered position, it 
 would have been perfect. Did I say this was a fun game?
  
  The graphics were very good. The alien ships look awesome in the sky and the 300 ft. creature is 
 truly weird looking to say the least. The Chimera, hybrids and others are some very ugly creatures. 
 The battles can be very intense at times.
  
  The game has a way of offering the right weapon at the right time, but in few scenarios, I am not 
 going to say when, you get an abundance to choose from, so choose wisely and if offered a large 
 one, it would be wise to take it. The main idea and best idea is to keep the right two weapons 
 on hand.
  
  If you are tactically impaired (being politically correct) , you will reach your demise quite often, 
 so stay on your toes, keep low when possible, and use the environment to your advantage.
  
  Overall
  This is a good game for single player. The campaign is highly intense, you might bite 
 the dust a few times, but you'll get through if you are persistent. I recommend it for those looking 
 for a fun fps to play, this is the one. So, strap on your combat boots, lock and load and get ready 
 for some intense action. I give it a 9.2 total rating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X_MGS4_Fan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:04 pm PT
Review:  Well I bought the game 1 month ago, and since that I've played about 3-4 hour every day :P First 
 of all the campaign was good ( 8/10 ) I liked the different types of Chimeras, and the new weapons. 
 Also the controls are new, and they are way better :D 
  The story was good, but it was not like MGS4 :P
  - The graphics are pretty good in detail, but 
 the overall presentation is amazing.... Fighting against huge Chimera monsters, and killing Zombie 
 like Humans ( Grims ) . The only thing that's missing from Resistance 1 is the co-op offline in 
 the story... which was really fun playing with my friends : ( 
  And here is the best part, The Online and Co-op Multiplayer are the best part part of the whole 
 game, I would give it a ( 100/10 ) :D: D: D: D: D 
  I've played the co-op probably for 100 or more hours... It's very addicting and the best multiplayer 
 game that I've ever played :D ( yes even better that CoD4 :D ) The only thing that I can say is, 
 DON'T LISTEN TO THE XBOX360 FAN'S... THE GAME IS GREAT, AND IT GOT AN AVERAGE PRESS SCORE OF 9/10 
 :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Back at the PS3's launch several years ago, Insomniac's launch title: Resistance: Fall of Man, 
 was generally declared as the PS3's best launch title. As a result, Resistance: fall of Man was 
 one of the PS3's very first big hits, so it's no surprise that Insomniac has decided to continue 
 the series with Resistance 2. As a sequel, it's not surprising Insomniac decided not to break any 
 real new ground here. But do not worry- what Resistance 2 lacks in innovation- it makes up for 
 in quality.
  
  The storyline of Resistance 2 starts off right where the first game left off- where Resistance 
 2's main character- Nathan Hale- has defeated the Chimera invading Britain. When we catch up with 
 Hale- he gets picked up and sedated by a group of black ops who take him to Iceland and unite him 
 with the 'Sentinels', a group of people who have been infected with the Chimera's virus, just like 
 Hale. After an initial tutorial mission at Iceland, the campaign jumps forward about two years 
 to the Chimera's invasion of the United States, where we take control of Hale once again to drive 
 them back.
  
  The storyline was not exactly praised in Resistance 1- and in Resistance 2, it's no more deserving 
 of praise. The storyline here is nothing special at all- mostly due to boring, two-dimensional 
 characters. As such, the action and gameplay are all that's there to keep you involved in the single 
 player campaign- and that is exactly what it will do.
  
  The single player campaign is of decent length- spanning a time of around 8-12 hours depending 
 on difficulty level. Notably, even at the lowest difficulty setting, Resistance 2 does a good job 
 of keeping the level of challenge relatively high. And this is without feeling cheap- as much of 
 Resistance 2's challenge comes from the competent enemy AI. The Chimeran AI uses cover relatively 
 well and can shoot quite accurately. That along with the large number of enemies you'll be generally 
 facing, is what makes Resistance 2's campaign as satisfying as it is.
  
  If the action in Resistance 2's single player campaign suffers from any faults- it's that there 
 is a complete lack of variety in objectives- your always just going from point A to point B. Resistance 
 2 mostly makes up for this however with a wide variety of enemy types- including a handful of boss 
 type encounters. The bosses however, are also a low point in the action- since while they are quite 
 impressive graphically- the methods of taking them down aren't nearly as entertaining. This is 
 especially true with the final boss- which is one of the lamest final bosses I've ever fought.
 
  
  Along with the single player campaign, Resistance 2 comes with a handful of multiplayer modes- 
 both competitive and cooperative. The competitive multiplayer is mostly the same as it was in Resistance 
 1- the primary difference being that the player cap has been increased to a very impressive 60. 
 There's your basic deathmatch and capture the flag modes, and then there's the skirmish mode, which 
 splits players on each team into squads of up to 5 players each. These squads all get their own 
 objectives during the match- such as taking and defending beacons, or taking out a specific player.
 
  
  If you have played other shooters online before, Resistance 2 doesn't do much different in terms 
 of competitive play. But if you have enjoyed playing online shooters- you will probably appreciate 
 Resistance 2's very high player cap- along with the fact that Resistance 2's multiplayer has little 
 to no lag- even if your connection isn't perfect (Like mine) .
  
  Resistance 2 also comes with a cooperative campaign- completely seperate from the single player 
 campaign- that supports up to 8 players. The cooperative mode in Resistance 2 has 8 players working 
 together as the 'Specter' squad, with three classes available to use: Soldiers who are designed 
 as the team's tanks, Special Ops who give out ammo and focus on dealing damage, and Medics who 
 heal damage by sucking energy from enemies using the Phoenix.
  
  The cooperative campaign is arguably the best part of Resistance 2. The action in the cooperative 
 mode is almost always incredibly hectic- and forces players to work together just to survive against 
 the hordes of chimera the game throws at you. The cooperative mode is further bolstered by the 
 game's leveling up system- which allows you to acquire new equipment as you gain experience in-game. 
 The competitive modes also use this experience system- but it's not as interesting as the cooperative 
 mode's system, as there is less to unlock in competitive play.
  
  One notable issue with the Cooperative mode however, is the enemy AI. While it's still generally 
 decent in cooperative play, the enemy AI tends to be less effective than it is in the single player 
 campaign. This is especially true with enemies such as titans- which commonly stop shooting for 
 no obvious reason and try to move away from other players. Also, those who were hoping to be able 
 to play through the single player campaign cooperatively will be disappointed- as Resistance 2 
 does not allow you to do this, unlike Resistance 1.
  
  Graphically, Resistance 2 is not as much of a step-up graphically as you may expect from Resistance 
 1. While the game does look more detailed over all, it's not a terribly big leap over Resistance 
 1. For instance, it's been said that the Chimera's polygon counts have been doubled- but it's not 
 as obvious of an improvement as it sounds. Resistance 2 does also have some nice looking water 
 effects- although these same effects can look a bit bizarre at times. The main improvement that 
 Resistance 2 boasts graphically over Resistance 1- is a vast improvement in environment variety. 
 Most- if not all- of Resistance 1 was very grey. Resistance 2 on the other hand- has a wide variety 
 of environments such as an underwater base, inside a Chimeran ship, the forests around Orick, California, 
 and more.
  
  Sound-wise, Resistance 2 is competent overall. The music in the game isn't memorable by any means- 
 but it gets the job done when it's used. Other aspects of Resistance 2's sound, such as the weapon's 
 noises and voice acting, are all well done as well. The highlight of Resistance 2's sound is arguably 
 the sounds made by the Chimera themselves, with how effective it is at making them sound truly 
 fearsome.
  
  Overall, Resistance 2 is what you would expect from a sequel for a popular shooter: it offers more 
 of the same- MUCH more of the same in the case of Resistance 2. And this is what makes resistance 
 2 so good- it offers plenty of content, and it is all high-quality. If your looking for the next 
 inventive shooter- steer clear. If you aren't that worried about inventivness however- and own 
 a PS3- then you should have Resistance 2 in your collection.
  
  Pros:
  - Enjoyable and challenging single player campaign bolstered by competent enemy AI.
  - Excellent 
 assortment of multiplayer modes- from the entertaining competitive multiplayer with up to 60 players, 
 to the addicting cooperative campaign.
  - Excellent and varied arsenal of weapons.
  - Great graphics
  
  Cons:
  - Lousy storyline with boring characters.
  - Enemy AI can be 
 surprisingly stupid in the cooperative mode.
  - Water effects can be bizarre and/or glitchy at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was released two years ago and with its release, Insomniac gave us the 
 first must have title for the PS3 and one of the best shooting experiences ever. Apart from having 
 great new shooting mechainics and some greatly implemented new ideas, Resistance was also one of 
 the best looking FPS in a long time with great story, well crafted presentation, a strong cast 
 of characters and a brooding soundtrack. So, when Resistance 2 was announced, everybody's hopes 
 were sky high. Would this new FPS be better than the first installment into the series? Would it 
 be one of the best games to have been released on the PS3? 
  
  The answer to both those questions is yes. It definitely is better than the first game- way better 
 in fact. And not only is this the best FPS on the PS3, this is the best FPS, heck, the best shooter 
 ever and the best PS3 title till date. Yeah, this game is better than Gears of War or Halo anyday. 
 No other shooter has featured such sheer quality and raw power that Resistance 2 gives us.
  
  The graphics of this game definitely could not have been better. The lush and rich, however 
 desolate and bloody they might be, environments are done so beautifully and even the smallest of 
 animations- the waving of grass, the crumpling of the dry leaves beneath our feat- are done so 
 beautifully and magnificently, it can be easily seen that Insomniac have put in a lot of work and 
 time to develop this masterful game. 
  
  The story of the game is one of the best stories anyone can come across in any shooter on any platform. 
 There are so many twists and so many new plot threads, that the story always remains compelling 
 and always suucks you in. What adds to the story is the beautifully crafted presentation style. 
 The cutscenes are done so magnificently and seemlessly that it makes the story all the more epic 
 and increases its already sky high value. The ending of the game was so great, so awe-striking 
 that it left my mouth hanging open. Obviously I won't tell you anything about it. I just tell you 
 its so open ended that the series could go anywhere from here now. 
  
  The gameplay of the game is definitely better than that in the first game. There have been few 
 upgradations. You cannot, now, carry more tha two weapons at a time (which is very Halo-ish, I 
 must say) and there are quite a few powerful grenades at your disposal. The weapons all feel so 
 deadly that using them is great fun.
  
  The difficulty levels of this game are high. So high that you might be stuck in front of a boss 
 for weeks. It is this very reason that small accomplishments in this game give you immense satisfaction. 
 
  
  That reminds me, the bosses in this game are so epic, gargantuan and huge, and tough to beat, that 
 no gamer would want to miss any boss battle. Its a sight to behold. Always.
  
  The character development is very well crafted. Hale is all the more interesting while the newer, 
 and older, characters add to the value of the game. 
  
  Ultimately, me, and probably every other game, would like to say this: Resistance 2 is a masterpiece 
 and yes, its better than Gears 2. Its the best shooter I've ever played and if anyone's missing 
 it, you'll deeply regret your decision later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charizard1605
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:43 am PT
Review:  About two years ago, Insomniac gave players around the world a reason to actually buy the PS3 as 
 a game system, rather than just an overpriced Blu-Ray player. Resistance: Fall of Man was actually, 
 in all honesty, a very ordinary shooter, with a few outstanding ideas that gave it a huge measure 
 of untapped potential, the most prominent of these being its setting in an alternate history. Now, 
 two years after the PS3 got its first killer app, Insomniac returns with a game that is not only 
 their best work yet, but also amongst the greatest games on the PS3, and arguably the best shooter 
 of all time.
  
  Resistance 2 moves the story from the haunted visages of Europe, and brings it over to North America. 
 In what is undoubtedly the best and most compelling narrative ever in any shooter, the horror and 
 the terror of the invasion, and what it has done to humanity, is told via cutscenes so well prepared, 
 and characters so powerful, that the game manages to deliver its message very, very clearly, in 
 a way that will not be forgotten by anybody for a long, long time to come.
  
  Accompanying the great story is an excellent cast of characters, all of whom have been voiced terrifically. 
 Hale's story, in particular, has a moving impact on all players, and if you make an effort to collect 
 all the Intel reports scattered throughout the game, you'll realise what great work and care has 
 gone into crafting this masterpiece. The ending is especially impactful, and leaves the future 
 of the series open for debate.
  
  The great story is only complimented by the awesome graphics. Painstaking detail has gone into 
 the crafting of the lush yet desolate environments, and truly, the bosses, epic in proportion and 
 monstrous in aesthetic, are all spectacles that deserve to be seen just once so that one may appreciate 
 the power that lies beneath the hood of the PS3.
  
  The gameplay of this game has changed quite a lot from the first title. Not only is there now a 
 limit on the number of weapons you can carry... the grenades you can stock up on is also limited. 
 Plus, the game comes up with a rather quirky new health mechanic, which, if I may say so, is not 
 as good as the health bars in the first game, and a rather poor rip off of the health regeneration 
 mechanic in Gears of War.
  
  It will be doing the game an injustice if one does not mention the great multiplayer options the 
 game offers. Not only do we get a great, entirely different co-op campaign... but we are also given 
 some jaw dropping options for competitive multiplayer, including support for sixty, yep, sixty, 
 players in an all out chaotic showdown against each other.
  
  Truly, Insomniac went all out with this game. The result is a work of labor and love that gives 
 us not only Insomniac's best game yet, but also the greatest shooter of all time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 5, 2009 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying GREAT game. Very worthy sequel to a truly awesome experience. Multiplayer 
 is, good, but not great like the first. I wish there was coop campaign over the net. Multiplayer 
 is rather deep as there are 3 classes to master, but its rather confusing for a while as some weapons 
 and powers are not available for single player campaign. Wish the multiplayer more closely matched 
 the single player story. The text to read before starting a level is too long and difficult to 
 get through before it goes away. Graphics left one thing to be desired... AA. Aliasing is an issue 
 throughout, although doesnt hurt gameplay. Had the same accuracy issues as the first game, and 
 the bullseye got worse, I think the Mk II should have been available from the beginning, replacing 
 the Mk I completely, instead you have to switch back and forth to find ammo. The air/fuel grenade 
 graphics are worse than the first game, almost invisible now. Reload times are slower, and ammo 
 goes faster, as you can only carry 2 weapons now, which is good since carrying 8+ weapons at a 
 time would weigh a man down.... but ya know he is superhuman strong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HA_Chaosagent
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 9:06 am PT
Review:  I never played the first Resistance but I didn't really need to. The Story mode was a good way 
 to get use to the controls and the feel for the game but i can't say I like that much. It was fun 
 and good way to get started on the Trophies. But it was the multiplayer that got into the game.
 
  
  The Co-op mode is by far the best thing about R2. You can have a party up to 8 people max. There 
 is 3 classes that you can be. The Medic which as you guess heals the party, but it is very good 
 in a fight too. It's main weapon and Phoenix which take the energy from enemies to heal you and 
 charge up your secondary fire. Once you unlock your secondary gun you really can do some damage. 
 It's four weapons are Carbine, Shotgun, HE 44 Magnum and the Splicer. Also every class has three 
 berserk, the medics are Ring of Life which creates a ring that heal your party weapons. Then there 
 is one that stuns enemies. The last one is Phoenix Ash which revies you when you die.
  
  The second class is the Spec Ops. This Class is the sniper of the group and has to hand out ammo 
 for the team. They use the Marksmen as they main weapon which is the saem as the one in Story mode, 
 with the Orb which is very useful. The four weapons that the Spec Ops gets is the Bullseye, Fareye, 
 Aruger and the Bellock. It's three berserk are Prototype ammo which gives your weapons more damage 
 and you can give it to your allies., Invisible which makes you Invisible and Snake eyes which bring 
 out a Pulse Cannon for a one shot only.
  
  The Last Class is the Solider. This class is the powerhouse of the class and it meant to shield 
 allies and take down strong units and swarms of enemies like Grims and Leapers. It's four weapons 
 are shotgun, Aruger, LARRK and Bullseye. It's three berserk are Ironheart which makes you stronger 
 against enemy fire, Overload which when you run of out health or the timer goes down you blow up 
 and Backlash. Also every class can upgrade they main weapons and add armour to make them better 
 and stronger.
  
  The final componant of the this game is the Competitive which is very fun. There are 4 modes. Deathmatch 
 is free for all. Team Death Match is the same but in teams and squads. Core Control is a lot like 
 CTF but you can't use the core as a weapon. The last mode is Skirmish which you are in squads and 
 you have to objectives like take control of a beacon, kill a main target, protect the ally target. 
 
  
  Overall this game is a lot of fun and I will be spending hours playing this amazing game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustinFriedman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:14 am PT
Review:  look i liked the first game a lot, so thats why i got the second game. First off the graphics are 
 good and horrible at the same time, the levels look good but the gameplay/gunfights look horrible, 
 big pixalated gunfire, and juss bad looking players, now am i being too hard on this game? mabey 
 i was just playing gears 2 which makes this game look like donkey kong. the levels look great but 
 eveything els is ok at best. the multiplayer is the best part of this game, to bad ps3 sucks for 
 multi player games. ps3 is a sinking ship almost never use my sysyem execpt for blue rays and MGS4 
 and LITTTLE BIG PLANNET, come on ps3 put out better games!
  
  Graphics Replay
  7 7
  
  Gameplay Value
  8 7
  
  Sound
  9
  
  Fun level
  7
  
  Story
  5
  
  Multi player
 
  9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 981Master
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 12:31 am PT
Review:  If you dont have this game and you like FPS games then Resistance 2 is a must own.
  
  First the story is actually good, and playing through it a 2nd time on superhuman a actually picked 
 up on a very intresting quote that got me giddy haha if u play the first level again after finishing 
 the game u might know what im talking bowt, anyways this is a phat game and i highly enjoy it.
 
  
  Graphics have been improved grately and everything is more vibrant and colourful. Frame rate is 
 steady even though u have 20 plus enemies on screen. Its impressive.
  
  Multiplayer is where its at though and you will not be dissapointed. From 8 player co op to 30v30 
 battles its very intense. Ingame medals and levelling up also keep you coming back for more.
  
  Sound is also impressive and you feel like there is an actual war going on around you. Weapons 
 and voice acting is not bad eitha.
  
  This is definately one of the best ps3 exclusives u must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GhostRecon985
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  I got this game hoping for a better Resistance Experience, and thats exactly what I got. The single 
 player campaign is a blast with great cutscene videos and the best boss battles ever. The graphics 
 are good and the frame rate is solid, even during highly intense action scenes. The multiplayer 
 is a blast and with virtually no lag. Gameplay is straight forward, controls are easy and simple. 
 One thing that you will notice is that this is a BIG game. Not just the bosses, but the environments, 
 especially outdoors, are massive! There is a small install first time you play but after that almost 
 0 load time which is great. And, best of all, Nathan Hale TALKS!! The story is uninteresting BUT 
 at least it was original. It brings the best out of what the PS3 can do and is a must-own for all 
 PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 1:36 pm PT
Review:  The first thing I would have to say about R2 is that its basically 3 games in one so the replay 
 value is high.
  
  You have the 
  
  Single Player Campaign- which follows the story of Nathan Hale
  
  8 Player Online Co-op or 
 2 player Offline and Online Splitscreen Co-op- with its own unique story and classes which you 
 need all three of to survive and you can also gain XP which then levels up both your Co-op and 
 competitive rank. The classes include- 
  
  Soldier- the main fighter which has the most health and can take the most damage from enemies carries. 
 He is armed with the HVAP Wraith as his main weapon which has a sheild for its secondary weapon.
 
  
  Medic- the healer of the group who has to heal and Revive his team mates when needed. He is armed 
 with a healing gun which when used shoots a beam which then drains health from the enemies and 
 is given to him to heal his own health.
  
  Spec Ops- the sniper of the group which main goal is to give out ammo to his teamates. He is armed 
 with the Marksman gun as his main weapon
  
  Competitive- Ranges from Deathmatches to the Skirmish mode on where the players have to complete 
 objectives to win the match. Also the total amount players is now 60.
  
  Overall the game is a good improvement from the first on both its single player mode and multiplayer 
 game modes.
  The graphics are more sharper, the lighting has been improved, the story is more in depth with 
 proper cinematic cut scenes, Trophies have been added, Maps are bigger, Oh and the scale lets not 
 forget about that and how insomniac have managed to create brilliant 300ft boss battles etc. Its 
 fantastic.
  Its not complete perfect though for starters there are no vehicles in this game but the first had 
 a few levels during the single player game when the use of vehicles was needed and the single player 
 is slightly shorter than it was on the first Resistance and I must say it is harder than the first 
 one.
  But thats about it for the bad points.
  My final rating is 9.5/10 a big improvement from the first and in my opinion the best FPS- First 
 Person Shooter game of 2008 which everyone who likes shooters and has a PS3 should own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gangster480
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a sequel to the popular Resistance: Fall of Man. This time, It is bigger and better. 
 It has a few changes to it. It takes the best from other great game as well as a few new things 
 that I have never seen before. you can now do a sprint to get around faster. you can aim downsight, 
 you have new and very fun to play with weapons. Resistance 2 is revolutionary. I enjoy this game 
 a lot and I think it tops the original. if you are a fan to the original Resistance, this game 
 would not disappoint. If you hated the original, Give Resistance 2 a try. you will find it way 
 better. it is smoother, more types of enemies, great boss fights. lots of intense actions. And 
 a bit hard, i beat the game and i died over 200 times, took me about 18 hours. the weapons are all 
 unique and effective, they are sooo fun to play with. I would recommend Resistance to any fan of 
 Halo that doesn't have a 360. youre better off with Resistance 2 as well as any one who enjoys 
 FPS games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LB_1911
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2009 9:57 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 has to be my favorite playstation 3 game right now. It has an amazing campaign, amazing 
 multiplayer and looks great on my 1080p screen. I havn't even beet the campaign, but from what 
 i have played it is amazing. I am on this one level where you have to go into this basement. i 
 am shaking because i am so scared! The multiplay 'competitive' is so addictive. I love using the 
 V7 splicer and sawing there body into countless pieces that stick to the wall! The 'cooperitive' 
 is also addictive. You can play a seperate campaign with 8 people from around the world! You can 
 also play 2 player co-op on the same campaign. The reason i give it a 9.5 is the respawn time for 
 cooperitive. When you die, you die alot, you have to wait 30 seconds if someone dosent come and 
 heal you. If u die out in the fireline, they usually dont come and heal you, so u end up waiting 
 30 seconds.... which get SO boaring! Other then that, the game is great. If your thinking about 
 getting this game, GET IT!!! my PSN is the same as my account LB_1911 , so add me and well play. 
 THANKS for reading!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daffydaniel
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  This is a single-player campaign featuring large-scale conflict with epic battles that take place 
 across a variety of massive and unique environments in the United States 
  
  In brief the character you get to play is called Nathan Hale who has joined the SRPA which is a 
 secret governmental agency that deploys super soldiers into battle. These are called sentinels 
 they are warriors that have been given blood infused with strains of the Chimeran virus, so enhancing 
 their abilities giving them super human strength and health regeneration. 
  
  
  The battles and the scale of the battles that erupt across many levels are a joy to behold which 
 constantly keep you on the edge of your seat. You will at times face wave upon wave of enemy in 
 the form of the Chimera & drones which can be overwhelming but at the same time awe-inspiring & 
 flawless to watch
  
  Part of the joy of playing this game is the weaponry that is at your diposal & if you are like 
 me & like shoot-em-up games than this will make you giddy with childish delight - it's been said 
 that as an adult you put away childish toys and think, work & behave like an adult be when you 
 get a game like this it is a pleasure to be a boy again.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:28 am PT
Review:  Insomniac is an incredibly talented development studio, responsible for one of the PS3's best games 
 in the form of Ratchet and Clank: Tools of Destruction, but developing the PS3's premier FPS is 
 something else entirely. With the console war more heated than ever before certain games are held 
 up as talismans - a reason to buy one console over another - and Sony simply hasn't had an FPS 
 to compete with the might of Microsoft's Halo. It tried first with Killzone on the PS2 and failed, 
 and now Resistance flies the flag for the PS3. Although the original game proved to be a stellar 
 launch title, is the sequel the system seller FPS Sony needs?
  
  This sequel picks up where the last game ended, with hero Nathan Hale an exhausted, almost beaten 
 figure of a man. The alien race known as the Chimera, which focussed its assault on the UK in the 
 first game, is this time attacking the East and West coast of the US, so it's up to you as Hale 
 and a special Sentinel task force to stop them. Things are hard enough, but Hale is also always 
 having to contend with the Chimeran virus that gradually takes hold of him throughout the campaign. 
 Once again the alternate reality history means that the world in the 1950s is very different to 
 how it actually was, with more advanced weapons and technology at your disposal.
  
  One of the key differences to the original is the diversity of the campaign levels, with Hale being 
 taken to all manner of locations, from run down cities to swamps and alien space ships. This has 
 allowed Insomniac to move away from the many hues of brown that more or less defined the original. 
 Diversity is good, but Resistance 2 struggles to tie everything together, with the campaign feeling 
 quite disjointed. The storyline in the original failed to make too much of an impact on us, mainly 
 due to the lead character's lack of likeability. Insomniac has worked on making Hale a more rounded 
 character (who actually speaks this time) , but even after two games we struggled to feel a connection 
 to him as the hero.
  
  This doesn't stop the core first-person gameplay being solid and from time to time quite exhilarating. 
 The majority of fun stems from the weapons you'll get access to, with many old favourites returning 
 (the homing bullet Bullseye and through wall shooting Auger being two of the best) alongside a 
 load of excellent newcomers. Your own play style will determine which you prefer, but at times 
 it's incredibly hard to decide which two you want to carry - sadly Insomniac has adopted a Halo-style 
 two weapon approach. Our favourites of the newcomers include the superb Marksman, a long-range 
 battle rifle; a brilliant Magnum revolver that allows you to detonate bullets on secondary fire; 
 and the Wraith gattling gun, complete with shield on secondary fire. Top these off with some brilliant 
 grenades and you've got an arsenal every FPS would be jealous of. Insomniac has always excelled 
 at creating brilliant weapons and Resistance 2 is no exception.
  
  This is all well and good, but good weapons need great levels and enemies, or they're useless. 
 Resistance 2 has a bit of both, but isn't nearly consistent enough to take it into classic status. 
 Enemies come thick and fast, are big and small, and generally behave intelligently - although from 
 time to time they seem intent on killing you instead of the many team mates that stand in between. 
 A few of of the large battles are great, but there are too many generic levels that could have 
 come from any FPS of the last five years, and a number of cheap kill enemies that really serve 
 no purpose other than to inject some unfair difficulty.
  
  One new enemy, the Predator-like Chameleon, comes at you cloaked and makes the screen shake due 
 to its heavy footsteps. This could have made for some brilliantly tense gameplay, with one or more 
 of these beasts hunting you down, but what you get is a few moments where a handful come at you 
 in turn, with you either shooting them dead in half a second or you being instantly killed. It's 
 essentially a great enemy (although not exactly original) , completely wasted. A water-based beast 
 is equally strange, in that it will instantly kill you if you get near it, but you can't kill it. 
 Even if you pump bullets into it while stood on dry land, just feet from it, it won't die.
  
  Resistance 2's campaign doesn't really get going properly until you reach Chicago, with a big 
 chunk of the game prior to that being fairly tame and disappointing. It's almost as if different 
 teams made a few levels each, as the quality varies so much. Had every level matched Chicago in 
 terms of thrilling, tense gameplay and visually impressive set pieces, we'd have had a real contender 
 on our hands. Chicago mixes adrenaline pumping sections against wave after wave of stampeding Chimera, 
 impressive level design and the best visuals the game has to offer. It's a level that shows what 
 Resistance could become and highlights just how weak other parts of the game are - and don't get 
 us started on the final, incredibly underwhelming boss battle.
  
  As we've already touched on, visually Resistance 2 is an incredibly mixed experience. At its best 
 it stands up with the best on the PS3, with highly detailed characters and enemies, spectacular 
 set pieces and a unique style. At other times levels look bare, textures are rough and clash with 
 one another, the lighting appears flat and the environment seems to have been put together rather 
 hastily. Some of the worst offenders are the large boss enemies you'll fight, with a few in particular 
 not nearly detailed enough for what is thought to be the most powerful console on the market. Certain 
 stages also suffer from pretty terrible aliasing, with jagged edges appearing all over the place. 
 One level seemed to suffer from this in a rather extreme way, and also saw smoke popping into view 
 and lighting switching so quickly it was as if a light switch had been flicked.
  
  Thankfully the single-player campaign is just part of the package, with Resistance 2 also including 
 a separate co-op campaign for up to eight players (two on a single system) , complete with unique 
 class-based gameplay, and competitive multiplayer for up to 60 players. The sixty player competitive 
 play is well done, with players competing in squads at different locations on the map. This might 
 seem like cheating slightly (at times it feels like you're playing in much smaller games) , but 
 Insomniac should still be applauded for offering something that rival first-person shooters don't 
 even come close to. This objective-based Skirmish mode is joined by the usual suspects, online 
 performance is good and leaderboards are there to keep track of how you compare with the rest of 
 the world. MyResistance. net is also available as a resource for all the stats you'd ever want, 
 serving a similar purpose to Bungie. net for Halo 2 and 3.
  
  Perhaps the most exciting and unique part of the game is the eight-player co-op, in which you choose 
 from three classes (medic, solider and special ops) and level up your character as you progress. 
 Encounters scale to who you're playing with (things won't be so tough if you're playing split-screen 
 two-player co-op compared to a full eight-player co-op session) and objectives change from game 
 to game, making this something you'll be able to come back to over and over again. All co-op games 
 rely on teamwork, but here it's perhaps even more essential than usual. To succeed you'll need 
 to make the most of each character class' abilities (thankfully you can change class at any point 
 and not lose any progress you've made with your character) .
  
  In what is a similar set up to an RPG or MMO, you earn XP for kills, but you'll also earn it for 
 doing what your character is designed for. Spec ops, for example, can re-supply soldiers with ammo, 
 so doing this will earn XP, while medics will obviously earn XP for reviving fallen comrades. The 
 more XP you earn, the better your ranking, and the more new weapons and Berserk powers you'll unlock. 
 These Berserk powers play a vital role in the trickiest sections of the co-op campaign, in particular 
 the medic's ring of health, that heals everyone that stands within the circular zone. Overall, 
 co-op is a very different experience and, while not for everyone (especially those that wanted 
 a more traditional co-op experience) , is a brave move on Insomniac's part.
  
  If you own a PS3 then there's no doubt that you should pick up Resistance 2. It's a solid FPS, 
 with moments of brilliance and some top notch multiplayer modes. It isn't the system seller it 
 could have been though. The campaign is the biggest offender, switching between mediocre and spectacular 
 far too regularly, as does the presentation. The storyline and characters once again fall flat, 
 with Insomniac failing to build anything to really care about into a sci-fi premise that has an 
 awful lot of potential. There's plenty here to work with; we just hope Insomniac finally puts all 
 the pieces together for the inevitable third game.
  
  Overal, 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:05 am PT
Review:  Back when the Playstation 3 was released in November 2006, Insomniac released Resistance: Fall 
 of Man, a first person shooter that had players defend England form the chimera. The game was a 
 success, turning out to be very popular among gamers and turned out to be one of Sony's biggest 
 exclusive games. Two years later and Insomniac's back with Resistance 2, while we all sit and wait 
 for the next Ratchet & Clank.
  
  Story
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The story takes place directly after Resistance: Fall of Man, Nathan Hale who's infected with 
 the chimera virus, has been extracted by black ops soldiers and are taken to a research base in 
 Iceland, here he's put together with a team called The Sentinels, who's also been exposed to the 
 chimera virus. Together they fight the chimera as they invade USA, the last free place on earth. 
 While the story is a bit simple, it's pretty good though, it's like an action movie with a few 
 twists, you really do feel that it's humanity's last battle and it does a good job of pulling you 
 in. The story is also told via Intel which is hidden throughout the levels and some levels even 
 has a radio who talks about the current state of things, who just goes more and more insane towards 
 the end of the game. It just ends a little abruptly though, but it sets the stage for Resistance 
 3.
  
  9.0
  
  Gameplay
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The gameplay remains largely intact from the first game, except that Nathan can now regenerate 
 his life completely (thanks to the chimera virus) , unlike just one box at a time like in the first 
 game. The weapons in the game are awesome, you'll fight the chimera with rocket launchers, revolvers, 
 machine guns, Gatling guns, sniper rifles, the chimera's own weapons, each usually comes with a 
 cool secondary fire option, they're really fun to use. The bosses in the game are huge, very huge 
 and it can be breathtaking just to fight them, even if some of them are just like a puzzle, there 
 still breathtaking to fight. The enemy AI has been improved, the chimera will try to flank you 
 and take advantage of your position, though their still a bit oblivious to grenades. You can't 
 decide what you team mates are supposed to be doing, but they never get in your way and do a good 
 job of defending themselves.
  
  After the game has finished (which takes about 8-10 hours) , there's multiplayer. You can play cooperatively 
 with up to 8 players; here you and your friends go through each level, doing missions. You can't 
 play the single player cooperatively, so the co-op has a different campaign altogether, but it's 
 still great. Each match will adjust to how many players there are and how tough they are will depend 
 on how good each player is, it's a blast to play though and it makes for one of the best co-op 
 experiences ever in a video game.
  
  And if that's not enough you can play competitive multiplayer in the usual deathmatch and team 
 deathmatch and all drifferent kinds of modes, for up to 60 players. With such a high amount of 
 players, the matches easily turns out chaotic, there'll be a lot happening in the matches, yet 
 there's never any lag in the game, which is surprising considering 60 players can go at it in a 
 match. there's also ca levelning system in both co-op and competitive modes. In co-op you can select 
 3 classes, each with their own beserks, weapons and so on, while on competitive, you can't select 
 classes, but you can select gear, weapons and costumize your characters looks. Add this and the 
 various ribbons and medals you can earn, along with trophy support and you got one game that you'll 
 be playing for months.
  
  10
  
  Graphics
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The graphics in Resistance 2 are a bit disappointing. The game looks good, but it simply doesn't 
 look as good as one might hope from a PS3 exclusive game. The cut-scenes are pre-rendered, while 
 the in-game cut-scenes still look good though. The fire effects could be better and there's occasionally 
 a low-res texture here and there. It's a good looking game, but I expected a bit more, considering 
 it's a PS3 exclusive.
  
  7.5
  
  Sound
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The voice acting is better than the first game, while the sound effects are good as well. The 
 soundtrack does a good job of building up atmosphere and really builds up pretty well for the epic 
 battles you'll encounter.
  
  9.5
  
  Overall
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  While graphics are not as good as you might hope from a PS3 exclusive game, the game is actually 
 one of the finest on the PS3, with a epic single player campaign and a fantastic multiplayer and 
 co-op, Resistance 2 more than lives up to it's name. It's simply one of the best first-person shooters 
 you can find these days. Finally, the PS3 has a game that's worthy of the title "Halo Killer"
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KM_00
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 3, 2009 1:11 am PT
Review:  I hate to say it, but Insomniac completely ruined everything that was good about the original Resistance. 
 I really wanted to say that I liked this game, but I couldn't. Each mode disappointed again. Since 
 the game is divided into three modes so will this review. I make a lot of comparisons to Resistance: 
 Fall of Man considering that it is a sequel, so if you have not played the game, go buy that instead 
 because it is better in almost every aspect.
  First is the campaign mode which I had a lot of aspirations for considering that I loved the campaign 
 of R: FoM. However everything has been overhauled. The one thing that actually changed for the better 
 was the graphics. Enemies certainly look better, the bosses look menacing, and the environments 
 create the perfect ambiance for each level. Okay graphics, A+; gameplay, I need to see you after 
 class. Anyone remember the quadrant system of R: FoM that divided your health into four bars where 
 you could only revive to the next bar. Maybe I was the only one that liked it because it was a 
 refreshing change of pace from every other shooter that allows you to fully regenerate. Apparently 
 because they changed the health system to the generic shooter health system. This made the game 
 much too easy because there was less tactic and planning involved and more running into a firefight 
 and then falling back when you needed to take a break. Also the weapon wheel disappeared. I understand 
 that this change was made for the sake of realism, but honestly none of the weapons make realistic 
 sense anyway so why not make some Chimeran technology to make them concealable and instantly-constructible 
 or something. Seems rather forced when the weapon wheel the last time around allowed certain weapons 
 to create a tactical advantage such as the sapper of the arc charger. None of the new weapons are 
 impressive at all because they have no originality. The splicer (a chainsaw gun) is taken right 
 from Ratchet and Clank. The chain gun (the Vulcan, I believe) is a glorified chain gun with a shield, 
 how original. Even the enemies take less hits and don't use any rushing tactics anymore. They seem 
 dumber and weaker which makes this game a joke and the difficulty does not get any harder as the 
 game goes on. Even the epic boss battles are simply just shoot-until-they-die affairs with almost 
 no thought or skill involved.
  The story in R: FoM I also thought was extremely original and presented in a brilliant way. It gave 
 you the feeling that the world actually was lost to the Chimera. Considering how difficult the 
 game was as well, this thought was reinforced. The fact that your alone for most of the game and 
 that Hale almost never talks gives that lone-wolf feeling which defined the first game: a desperate 
 survival attempt thats futility seemed believable. The second game not only does not explain any 
 of what happened after the first game, it assumes that you do know. If any of that information 
 is on the PSP game Resistance: Retribution, I will write a very angry letter to Insomniac because 
 that is the most annoying advertising tactic: selling a crappy game with a good story because the 
 player wants to know what happened. Anyway, the game puts you in this squad of other infected soldiers 
 apparently which makes this game seem more like a Call of Duty than a Resistance. Hale acts like 
 a soldier instead of being that lone wolf that he was in the original. The teamwork aspect completely 
 distorts the feeling of the original. The war actually seems winnable to when you watch how well 
 your teammates can function. Sure the numbers of Chimera are immense, but the calm demeanor of 
 the soldiers seems oddly surprising given the situation. The whole feel of the game was changed 
 for the worse. And the game is also incredibly short
  Okay so the campaign sucks, so what about the multiplayer? Well glad you asked, although not really 
 because I don't want to bash this game anymore but I have to. First I will discuss the popular 
 cooperative mode which I think becomes incredibly boring. At first coop is exciting because its 
 something new and challenging. Quickly you learn that coop is actually just the same challenging 
 thing over and over again reused over and over. I cannot understand how people gain enjoyment from 
 being throw in the same couple of maps over and over again doing the same objectives. Oh yeah theres 
 a class system and the differences are certainly noble feats by Insomniac, but barely anybody works 
 as a team. Plus (everybody knows what a hack-n-slash is right?) its just a point-n-shoot type of 
 thing. Just move around and shoot and either you'll be healed by a medic or a you are a medic and 
 heal yourself. No strategy involved. Spec ops have to give ammo although there usually is not a 
 need. Medics give health but are incredibly weak while soldiers are strong but have no supports. 
 So the only incredibly new features are the ability to give health and ammo. Its not that exciting, 
 trust me. There is a leveling system but its very tedious and not very rewarding at all, so there's 
 really no point to continue in coop unless you enjoy repeating everything because there are about 
 10 objectives per map and each mission just mixes them up. It's also challenging because theres 
 so many enemies or theres a really big enemy that requires way too much time to kill which warrants 
 making mistakes dodging bullets every now and again because you getting too tired. Oh by the way, 
 offline coop is only two player (no four player, wtf) and is incredibly stupid because you only 
 have two of the three classes represented. I guess they're trying to make it harder because you 
 can easily talk to your teammate. Whatever, at least I can play the campaign with a friend like 
 in the old game right? Yea you sure can, if that feature was not taken out I guess for the sake 
 of realism again or laziness although that does not seem Insomniac-like.
  Perhaps even more disappointing than the campaign is the competitive. R: FoM had a pretty basic 
 online competitive mode but at least it functioned well. Theres nothing wrong with this new competitive 
 mode except that it inherits all of the flaws of the other modes. The ability to carry only one 
 gun, the weapons, and the changes to all the other guns. Oh yeah I should probably mention these 
 things called berserks which are implemented for the sake of realism (I have a dry sense of humor, 
 hopefully you picked up on that because it was hilarious) . After so many points or so, you can 
 activate a number of abilities such as the radar for humans and seeing through walls for chimera. 
 Sound familiar, it should because they are from Resistance one but not instantly accessible because 
 that would be to real (there it is again) . I thought that this undermined the one creative thing 
 in R: FoM, the distinctions between human and chimera. Now the difference is merely appearance. 
 Oh yeah these things are in coop too but they're different. Who cares though, they're too useful 
 to be fake. The modes are all there including a new one, but it is not very fun for the reasons 
 mentioned above. Oh yeah, no offline again (seriously what the hell happened to the good ol' days 
 of Goldeneye. They are now long gone, very depressing) .
  Like I've said, I tried to like this game but I could not. I love Resistance, but you read it, 
 I completely bashed this game up and down. I mean its a functional shooter, but compared to Resistance, 
 everything good just went missing. It seems that Insomniac traded away any bit of individuality 
 they had with their game to become mainstream. And some if it just sucked. I'm sorry Insomniac, 
 I refuse to buy Resistance 3, you broke my heart. (On a side not, I was going to sell my PS3 and 
 this game was the only thing that stopped me. I'm not going to sell it anymore because I like split 
 screen multiplayer on other games too much, but its definitely hurts knowing that Insomniac just 
 sandbagged me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hellraiderz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  From start to finish, the game was an amazing journey. But like all games, they have to end somehow. 
 Luckily Resistance 2 stopped itself from being covered in dust after the single player campaign 
 is beaten with its fun and addictive multiplayer. Resistance 2 differs itself from the first one 
 with a lot of new features, such as the running option during the campaign that actually adds alot 
 more fun, rather than just walking in the same speed throughout the whole experience. 
  
  Resistance is a much larger game in scale, there are much larger bosses and larger scale maps. 
 My personal favourite new addition is the amount of gore within the game, when i say gore, i mean 
 intestines and guts being blown off and limbs/legs flying around the area. The cut scenes look 
 way more amazing, mostly assisted by the use of motion capturing unlike "fall of man" where they 
 just animated the cut scenes directly. Nathan Hale actually talks in the sequel therefore making 
 him a bit more interesting 
  
  The weak points of the game is its story. Nothing groundbreaking going on there. however the ending 
 does make the game look like there could be a Resistance 3. I always thought. Nathan Hale (the 
 main character of the story) doesn't really have anything to offer, only he speaks more as i mentioned 
 above. 
  
  Overall Resistance 2 is a game which seems to have learned from its previous mistakes from Resistance: 
 Fall of Man therefore making it a much more fun and enjoyable game for fans of the serious and 
 also for newcomers (the game doesn't require you to really have to play the first game to understand 
 whats happening) . I would recommend this game to all FPS lovers or just if you're feeling like 
 blowing aliens up into tiny bits.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSSJDanny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 2:10 am PT
Review:  Graphics - Really good environment, they keep it wide and there never really is any blurry moments, 
 cut scenes are really cleared up. Although there are still a few Invisible walls...
  
  Sound - Great sound. Cant really think of anything significant about it.
  
  Gameplay - The 
 campaign is fun, although the story is a little dry. The ending leaves you asking questions, and 
 wanting more. After you play the campaign you must try the online Co-op or the Competitive. The 
 Co-op is very fun I've gone through many hours of trying to level up and become a high ranked Special 
 Ops, and Medic.
  
  Overall - The game is great and if you got buddies that have this game you'll have a fun time grinding 
 your characters to there max level. I'd actually recommend buying this game if you spend alot of 
 time playing Online Multiplayers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2: the height of PS3 shooters today. I have been looking forward to this game ever since 
 I heard about a sequel to Resistance: FOM so I didn't want to spend any money so I just slapped 
 it on my Christmas list and now a week later, I have finished the campaign of this and COD: WaW. 
 
  
  Storyline:
  
  The storyline is great: it provides everything you need to know about every main character directly 
 except for Nathan Hale. I say directly because if you just blaze through the story without bothering 
 to look for intel, it can very easily be precieved as knee-deep. Intel documents are scattered 
 throughout levels and collecting them will further you understanding into the depths of the story 
 and it's characters. Nathan seems like a blank canvas throughout if you don't bother paying attention 
 during the cutscenes to the well drawn-out foreshadowing that takes place regularly. The length 
 was perfect and it provided all of the aspects that make this story so good. If you haven't already 
 played this game... The ending will surprise you. Not to give much away but I had my jaw dropped 
 and my mouth wide open for at least 2 minutes into the ending credits. Anyways, there defenitly 
 WILL be a Resistance 3 and it's not going to be any worse.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Not much to be said here. The graphics are decent. I wouldn't say there even close to the best 
 in gaming and not even in the genre but one thing is for sure, the colours are amazing and the 
 effects are brilliant. If your looking for a game to really showcase the graphical power of your 
 PS3, this isn't the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  It's the second time around and yes, they've changed a few things. The health system is 100x better 
 in my opinion with the standard red around the edges that regenerates over time. The shooting and 
 aiming are decent with a much better control scheme than RFOM. The weapons are great with awesome 
 new ones such as the splicer and the magnum with exploding bullets. The alt fire on every gun just 
 makes it that much more satisfying to rip apart your enemies. One thing that really bugged me though 
 was those nasty fish things that cannot be killed and if you as much as touch your toe into the 
 water, you a dead man. There are a few glitches here and there but nothing that could really make 
 or break the core gameplay. Overall very interesting and fun to use weapons with great enemies 
 to fight off.
  
  Mulitplayer:
  
  60 player online matches + 8 player objective - based online co-op = Need I say more? Dare I say 
 it is better than Call of Duty 4 online...
  
  Overall: Great, In-depth storyline and AMAZING multiplayer make this the best shooter on the PS3. 
 That is, until Killzone 2... Hopefully.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ratchet_Fan8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:42 pm PT
Review:  Im not a fan of Shooters, actually hate them, but Bioshock and this proved me wrong, this.. this game 
 just rocks and i got it 4 christmas XD
  
  anyways ,review
  
  
  GRAPHICS: while the game is not "fully" HD, it has nice graphics, but not everything, sometimes it 
 looks abit bad actually (Dr Malikovz face in close looks wierd....) but sometimes, it Looks very 
 nice (in Chicago, or that swamp thinga-ma-jig) i cant say the graphics are "REALLY" good, but theyre 
 fine  . 
  7.9/10
  
  
  STORY: not its strong point, but its alright, the story did seem abit wierd and times boring, but 
 the amazing shooting elements saved it and cover'd the whole thing up, trust me you arent gonna 
 care for the story that much
  8 only becoz u wont care for it XD
  
  GAMEPLAY: who's the creator? INSOMNIAC GAMES ^_^!!! and they are "EXPERTS" in gameplay, NEVER have 
 the let me down and always succeed in gameplay, you can only carry 2 weopens, but for some reasons, you 
 dont really care, it rocks. they all are VERY effective. And trophies make it Whole lot More better 
 ,the boss fights are ok, but hey, its Hard to make an FPS boss, but even so, insomniac makes it abit 
 fun, but nothing really special, overall the gameplay simply "ROCKS"
  9.3/10
  
  OTHER STUFF (ONLINE, CO-OP, ETC) : all modes are pretty amazing,60 player is a riot, BELIEVE IT. it 
 doesnt lag much (hey,60 Is alot, but it does lag, just not much ,which is good^_^) co-op alone with 
 a bud is a diff story, unless you have 4 guys in a room, then it becomes FUN, but 2 is ok,1 is terrible,3 
 is fun,4 is REALLY fun
  8.5 (Depends actually) 
  
  
  OVERALL:8.5 
  
  i hate shooters, but the game rulz, now.. ima shooter hater, but luvd the game, if your not a shooter 
 fan, then play this... trust me, its worth it ^_^ 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mogz608
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:15 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 - Playstation 3
  ======================
  Warning: Review may contain spoilers.
  ======================
  
  Being a giant fan of Resistance: 
 Fall of Man, I couldn't wait to pick up Resistance 2; and I wasn't disappointed in the least.
 
  
  Story: 9 / 10
  So, the Chimera have started their invasion into America. Nathan Hale is recovered from the field 
 and taken to a med-center to slow the Chimerian infection spreading through his body. Given so 
 many hours to live, Hale tries desperately to destroy what he is going to eventually turn into.
 
  The story is well done, I found that some of the NPCs in your squad are "flat", but other than 
 that, it is your usual "Save the World" story, with a huge slap in the face during the ending cut-scene 
 that will leave you wanting more.
  
  Music / Sound: 8 / 10
  The music score in this game is decent, but it is the sound effects that give this category it's 
 points. Every single gun sounds totally different, which is a nice change from other games where 
 the guns only sound slightly different. Also, the sounds of the Chimera themselves is enough to 
 creep you out sometime; like the Chameleons, can't see'em, but you can sure as hell hear them.
 
  
  Graphics: 10 / 10
  I love the graphics in this game, after you walk out of the sinking US base and see all the Chimerian 
 battleships in front of a sunset destroying what is left of a city, it is awesome. To go along 
 with the excellent environmental graphics, sometimes it is what you don't see that is nice; going 
 into an abandoned city and having to go through the buildings in pitch black with nothing but your 
 flash light to tell where you are going, and hearing Chimera all around you... it is fun. Also 
 the weapon graphics are really nice.
  
  Multiplayer: 10 / 10
  Resistance 2 has ... two different types of Multiplayer modes, you have Co-op, and Competitive. 
 Co-op, which is my favorite mode, is you are grouped with seven other people, given a location 
 and you are to complete a mission as either a Soldier, Special Ops, or a Medic; each class needs 
 the other classes to survive; as you complete missions you get "Gray Tech" which allows you to 
 buy better equipment as you level up.
  Competitive is just that, your usual Death matches, Free-For-Alls, Team Deathmatchs, ect... it 
 is fun but some of the weapons are just cheap...
  
  Overall: 9 / 10
  Resistance 2 is a great game for those that have played Resistance: Fall of Man, if you havn't 
 played the first one I would STRONGLY suggest you go out and rent it to get into the story before 
 playing Resistance 2. If you are just a Online junky, Resistance 2 won't fail to impress. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinKisaragi
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 3, 2009 10:48 am PT
Review:  This game has many great things, but also many flaws. I wish they gave more thought to it before 
 releasing this game. Now let's start with the campaign.
  
  The campaign begins where it left off in the first game, though there are many changes : Maps are 
 more colorful and differently designed, new weapons are introduced, the weapons from the first 
 game have a different feel, new enemies and bosses, etc etc.
  
  As you progress through the game you'll find bosses, but I found these bosses lacking depth, since 
 all you have to do is shoot the F out of them with whatever weapon the game gives you. It also 
 seems like you go through more variated locations than the first game, which I found a great improvement.
 
  
  Anyway the campaign is around 7-10 hours long, I enjoyed playing through it and it had it's moments. 
 Don't be expecting a great ending though because it's..... a cliffhanger! With a plot twist I guess. 
 When you finish the campaign mode you might want to play it again for trophies or intels, but I 
 suppose that also depends on how much you'll the campaign.
  
  Continueing to online mode..
  
  I gotta say the online mode is very fun and will keep you occupied 
 for a looooooooooooooooooong time. You can either play co operative or competitive. Let's start 
 with the basic things. 
  
  In competitive you get to choose to be either human or chimera. You gain new  
 as you level up. Although they are just for decoration, I still found this a nice feauture.
  In co op, your gear actually boosts stats. For example : if you're a medic, a certain item will 
 increase the range of your healing shot. Although in this mode you have to buy equipment with the 
 "Grey Tech" you get in the co op missions.
  
  There are also berserks available, and it's your choice which to equip. Every berserk gives something 
 unique and different. For example : there's a perk that will constantly heal you in an area when 
 activated, or will greatly increase your defense for a short amount of time etc etc. when you get 
 enough exp from shooting people it can be activated.
  Now competitive doesn't have many modes, but you'll still be coming back for more, and you can 
 always party with your friends to make it more exciting. It has Death Match, Team Death Match, 
 Skirmish, and Core Control (which is basically capture the flag) . Every mode feels just fine and 
 is easy and fun to play, there are a few complaints though :
  1. You spawn on a completely random places, you might spawn with your back facing the enemy or 
 you may even find yourself spawning on a grenade (like WTF IS THAT!?) . This also kills camping, 
 .
  2. Although there are many maps and a fair amount of variations, they lack interaction and just 
 feel sort of blank. 
  3. Sometimes when there's incoming fire in front of you, you don't see incoming bullets at all 
 and don't notice the fire is coming in front of you until you're dead (this doesn't happen that 
 often though) .
  4. Some players don't immediately die when they're supposed to, they just keep walking and suddenly 
 die a few seconds later even if you stopped firing.
  5. You don't gain exp when you play customized games, only random games shall give you exp (in 
 co op both games give you exp though) .
  6. Weapons are VERY UNBALANCED, some are close to being completely useless and get left out. Which 
 will 
  
  Anyway on to co op (don't worry I'm almost done..) . There are 3 classes in co op : Soldiers, who 
 are basically just there for offense, Medics, whose main purpose is to heal allies and have crap 
 offense and Special OPs who have long range weapons and refill ammo. I have no real complaints 
 about the co op mode. It's entertaining and works out fine as long as you have balanced teams. 
 
  
  In the end Resistance 2 is a great game with some complaints, but if you can forgive it for it's 
 flaws you'll spend a lot of time with this game. Just don't expect a very depthy shooter. I suggest 
 anyone that likes FPS games to at least give it a try.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patatopan
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Well, Resistance 2 puts you back in the shoes of Nathan Hale who once again has to halt the alien 
 race known as the chimera from taking over the world. This time around, the game takes place in 
 The Untied States in which the chimeran horde seemingly were very unaffected by the strong push 
 made in the first game and were able to forward their efforts towards invading the rest of the 
 world. The plot is a bit unclear but that is how it seems to unfold.
  This game is not good. It's like a big doodoo cake with a bunch of little problems and annoyances 
 that constitute as the decoration and icing and what not. I really don't like it at all. I almost 
 feel anarchist for stating so since the game is so highly regarded and praised, but I really don't 
 care what anyone else has to say. The first Resistance was great, it was my first PS3 game and 
 one of my favorites. The only grievances I had about the first one was that it tried to copy specifically 
 Halo too much and it got a bit boring over time, but upon initial reaction, I was astounded by 
 it. It made me proud to own a PS3. For Resistance 2, I had mixed initial reactions; mainly between 
 "Is is game bad or really bad?" This game comes along, disguised as the holy grail of the ps3 owners 
 and as a resistance sequel, tells everyone to gather around and prepare to be amazed, only to unleash 
 the true crappiness it really is. That was my complete reaction. I never was interested in getting 
 it in the first place since judging by the previews and whatnot I could tell that it wasn't my 
 cup of tea, but being enticed by a friend to get it, I finally gave in. What a bad decision.
  In the first game, as much as it tried to copy halo, there we're a lot of things about it that 
 stood out from other games such as the million different weapons you could get that we're always 
 useful for different situations and you could hold them all at once, the health system was done 
 uniquely with 4 bars that regenerated only if one bar was a quarter full, and the alien race themselves 
 which seemed real scary and hard to fight at times which gave them this sense of tyranny over the 
 human race. In Resistance 2, they judged that it would make it a much better game to see how many 
 modern shooter cliche's they could copy and how many of their unique qualities they could get rid 
 of in order to make room for all the other things. That is what this game is all about; the cliche's 
 its full of that weren't very good in the first place. As much as I just want to forget about the 
 rest of the game and focus on the how these clusters of cliche's just kill it, I feel it would 
 be much more fair if I broke down the game and talked about it in sections.
  First off, the graphics are just plain weird. In the first game, in which I will be referring to 
 a lot throughout the review if I haven't already, the graphics were regular and solid and didn't 
 try to do anything amazing yet they looked good anyways. While Resistance 2 does try to do amazing 
 things, it forgets about other things that they should have concentrated on. The lighting is the 
 main problem. It just doesn't make any sense. In areas that are dark, an object will stand out 
 as being real bright and lit up. In areas that are real bright, and object will stand out as being 
 real dark. It looks real ugly and strange. In the game, the indoor lighting is real misinterpreted, 
 so to say. Rooms with rows of lights are only partially lighted and have a lot of dark areas. In 
 real life, if a room has one fluorescent light, it would at least light up the room up till the 
 walls and you would be able to see everything. It just doesn't make any sense. The game also suffers 
 from the wet and plasticy textures look, like they tried to make them too detailed. Some places 
 looked as though it had just rained when it obviously didn't. Metal looks like plastic and a bunch 
 of weird color choices. That's that, but there are also some extremely well done things such as 
 the water. This game has the best looking water I have ever seen and not only does it look like 
 real water, it acts like it too with realtime ripples and such that distort the reflections. This 
 game also has very well detailed character models, to the point where you can easily see the pores 
 and finer detail on peoples faces. It also has massive and mobile backgrounds that give almost 
 a sense of vertigo but that doesn't matter much since you never really get to interact with the 
 background and actually go to those large places. But still though, the game overall doesn't look 
 good because even though it has exceptionally well done parts, its the ugly and dark parts of the 
 graphics that doesn't weigh out with the good parts. 
  The gameplay is also something else that doesn't balance out with itself. The game's difficulty 
 jumps and leaps around to amazing lengths. Around the beginning of the game, I got the impression 
 that it was going to be a simple cake walk, but then all of a sudden the game expected me to do 
 much more than I thought. Before I can explain a certain scenario of this, I first have to tell 
 you about your arsenal. The game decided to follow the "You can only hold two guns" cliche and 
 abandon the quality of having all of the game's guns at once. While in the last game you couldn't 
 survive on just two guns since there was an equality to having them all at once, the decision to 
 only have two of those at once majorly cripples the gameplay. One large and annoying part about 
 this is that you don't get much ammo. In the last game, you didn't get much ammo, but then again, 
 you had all the guns at once so if you ran out ammo for one gun, you certainly had another that 
 still had ammo in it. Now it's just plain annoying. The most shells I've ever gotten for the shotgun 
 in all was just 16 rounds; 8 in the clip and 8 left over. You can't take on hordes of enemies since 
 you never have ammo or you keep running out of it. Also, the guns have gotten more blatant and 
 conventional. You can either have a powerful bullet hose or a powerful pea shooter, that explains 
 most of the guns you'll usually get. Now then, the difficulty. Through most of the game, every 
 time you came across a part where you needed to fight a certain enemy, the game conveniently provided 
 you the right gun for the situation, even if it didn't make much since like there just happen to 
 be a human made rocket launcher with a crate of rockets on top of an alien tower. This made the 
 game extremely easy. Then the developers decided to screw around with me a bit. I then came across 
 a part where there were three impossible enemies and no guns laying around, not even ammo for the 
 ones I had. The game then became impossible and the only reason I beat it after 20 or so times 
 was just out of sheer luck. It does things like this constantly. 
  The enemies are another thing that constitute to the game's uneven difficulty. Once again, the 
 developers decided to follow enemy cliches and though, well, we have to include large, lumbering 
 enemies that are difficult to beat and then we have to include small, flood-esque enemies that 
 come in swarms" In the first Resistance, the enemies weren't too varied but neither were they too 
 frequent. You had your standard chimeran enemy who could take on quite a multitude of bullets and 
 presented a hard yet beatable challenge. Now they're just bullets sponges who die within 1 shot 
 from a pea shooter and 2 from a bullet hose. Then there are the lumbering giant ones which aren't 
 at all affected by bullets, only if you could somehow go around behind them and destroy their apparatus. 
 This is impossible to do because the big enemies, I think they're called titans, constantly shoot 
 one shot killing flaming grenade things at you and they never want to turn their back towards you. 
 Those were the three enemies I encountered when I was talking about my experience earlier. Three 
 of the ****ers! The game is a nice easy shooting gallery up until to run into these things. The 
 developers also decided to follow another cliche; Hmm, lets include predator-esque enemies to 
 introduce a bit of a horror element into the game" This could have been done good, but it wasn't. 
 You'll sometimes come across sections in the game where all the action stops and turns into a test 
 of reflects. These enemies called chameleons will hide in the background with their active camo 
 turned on and when they feel the opportunity is fit, they come idiotically charging at you. Thats 
 cool and everything, but the darn things kill you in one hit. That is where they screwed up. The 
 game then doesn't only become of test of reflects, but also trial and error. It's also really annoying. 
 You will constantly die and start over again. You have to study their movement patterns and figure 
 out which enemy is going to pop out first and such. So it would seem that this only works when 
 the action stops and you're openly looking out for them, but the damn things also come out right 
 when you're in the middle of battle. Oh god that is when they get REALLY annoying. The imbalance 
 of enemies and their purposes give the game that real jagged and uneven feeling. 
  The narrative is real basic, although many things go left unexplained. I guess you're already suppose 
 to know what sentinels are since the game never really explains them to you. It's like reverse 
 dramatic irony. The game knows things that you should know yet you don't. Such as this new character 
 named Daedalus in which I'm not sure if it means anything in ancient greek or something or why 
 he is even named that. I think, I'm not sure, he controls the chimera like some sort of hivemind. 
 Yet another cliche' and it's also a problem with the continuity. I mean, he wasn't in the first 
 game. This presents a whole new context to the enemies that seems to contradict their context in 
 the last game. It's alright though, because I understand, they just wanted to copy a bunch of cliche's. 
 
  The game's inclusion of cliche's weakens it from being the true ultimate experience I expected 
 from a Resistance game. The unique Health bar system they had with the first one is gone and is 
 now doing the conventional health regeneration thing that doesn't even work well since you lose 
 health like really fast, and then it takes forever to regenerate. Tripping over a rock could make 
 you lose three-fourths of your health. They also mildy followed the cliche' that they need to include 
 a boss fight of some sort every now and then. I really wouldn't say that it is a cliche, since 
 the boss fights in the game are easier than the actual standard enemies, but to have boss fights 
 none the less is alright.
  One thing I loved about the first game was the massive battle you get involved in. It was real 
 fun having that sense that there are all the enemies and guys with you that are having this massive 
 battle with explosions everywhere and bodies flying all around. Not only did the first game have 
 that, it had a bunch of levels that played like that. That was the standard I had come to know 
 resistance for being, but in Resistance 2, there is like one level like that. All the others are 
 just boring move from one area to the next kind of gameplay where you don't even get a lot of guys 
 with you. So you lose that feeling of being part of something big, especially when all the enemies 
 are aiming at you as if your allies don't even exist. I was real disappointed to see that feeling 
 not return. The environments are real unexciting. Who'd ever thought they wanted to fight giant 
 alien creatures in Louisiana bogs? I mentioned that the backgrounds are real amazing, but you never 
 get involved with them like there is more going on in the background then there is with the plane 
 that you are playing on. You also never react with the backgrounds like let's say there's never 
 a time where there is a guy pointing to a distant place and telling you to somehow "get there". 
 I really like that feeling, I don't know why. I just know that the last game had it but not in 
 this one. 
  As for mutiplayer bother offline and online, it's rather satisfying. The splitscreen co-op requires 
 a lot of strategy and communication among the players so it can be fun. As much as I don't give 
 a flying piece of booty excrement for multiplayer, it can be pretty fun too. The online co-op can 
 have 8 players at once with certain players being different classes that help one another out. 
 It can get real fun because bunches of enemies come at you in hordes and you have to fight them 
 off. It's sort of reminiscent of Doom. My only complaints there is that way too much stuff can 
 go on screen and it's kind of difficult. I haven't tried the competitive online, but I could go 
 to the flee market rather than go online and listen to a bunch of jack asses yell at each other. 
 
  
  So, my main concern with the game is that it was a disappointment. The developers ventured too 
 far off from the solid and fun formula the first Resistance presented and caused the game to lost 
 it's fun factor. The way they did this was they tried to follow too many shooter cliche's that 
 weren't good in the first place and try to mix in some of the formula they created themselves only 
 to make them game disjointed and not solid. I wish they did some things differently, and that being 
 just SOME things, and the game would have been a lot more funner. On the Jesse's scale of awesomeness, 
 this game scores an under -9000 for being just too disappointing. And that's that.
  
  ps. why does everyone in the game look like they are from india?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soar57
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 3:50 pm PT
Review:  Opinion: A unique game that brings some of the biggest FPS boss battles in the genre.
  
  Story: This sequel to RFOM starts right where the first one ends. Nathan Hale, an American Liutenent, 
 is once agains the star of the game. The prologue shows Hale's chopper crashing down into an American 
 army base in Iceland. After Hale escapes, he is taken to the mainland. In two years time, the Chimera 
 attack the U. S. from both coasts, pushing the population into the center of the country. Throughout 
 the course of the game, you guide Nathan Hale through various locations in the U. S. such as Twin 
 Falls, Idaho and Chicago, Ilonois. Hale becomes more and more infected as the game goes on. I won't 
 give the ending away. 
  
  Pros: Intelligent enemy A. I., fun to shoot weapons, unique enemies, giangantic bosses, Interesting 
 story.
  
  Cons: Minor techinical glicthes, difficulty level may piss off some people, Occasional wonder on 
 what to do.
  
  Bottom Line: A- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:57 pm PT
Review:  "If it ain't broke, don't fix it."
  
  Resistance: Fall of Man wasn't broken. So why tinker? Before I complain I will state this: it's 
 a great game. Not saying it isn't. Still, producers and developers always find a way to do things 
 that just make you want to bang your head up against a brick wall.
  
  The graphical presentation is very, very different from the first game. Greatly improved? Eh, in 
 some ways greatly, in some ways, not so much.
  
  Good: Cutscenes- gives more feel to the story (though I enjoyed the narratives in the first game. 
 Monsters look more lively and creepy.
  
  Bad: Loads of "junk" on the screen. Environmental art that doesn't matter makes everything look 
 garbled and "scribbly" sometimes. Graphical improvements change the "feel," of some of the old 
 weapons, which I don't like.
  
  It's hard to tell at some points in the game if it's 1952 or 2052. In the previous installment, 
 it was a good contrast: alien environment/WWII environment. It's jumbled here. 1950's era equipment 
 stands behind a soldier who looks outfitted from today's Armed Forces- and he's NOT using the alien 
 equipment.
  
  Annoyances:
  
  If you've played the first quite a lot, it'll be culture shock. You'll wonder when Resistance turned 
 into all those "other" games. Though a little time has passed story-wise, how did certain guns 
 get better suddenly? How did others get worse.
  
  I'm not a fan of the invisible health bar. Red flashing on the screen does little for me. I want 
 to know ahead of time whether I'm getting pegged or not. Alas, it seems to be the new fad in the 
 FPS.
  
  Like many other sequels, you beg the question to the game developer: why did you mess with the 
 controller layout? Why would you just randomly move actions around on the controller? Luckily, 
 you can map it any way you want. Still... why?! Why be different just to be different? Different 
 doesn't mean better.
  
  Those are all annoyances with campaign play which; unbeknownst to Gamespot, is what most people 
 still play. Online play gets amped up and suddenly the game is AMAZINGLY BETTER than the original? 
 No. It's important to look at all details of the game, and how it feels to the individual, because 
 in the end, the single player campaign is the most important aspect of the game. If not, call the 
 game Resistance: Online. Then I'll change my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickenfeed9
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  This being my first ever review, i will try and make sure it isnt too lengthy. 
  
  So basically, got the game for Christmas, and have been playing it ever since. 
  Its quite frankly 
 a fantastic shooter, it has great graphics, excellent weapons and enemies, and just performs really 
 well. 
  Those who played the first game might like to now of a few differences:
  the weapon system has changed, you can now only carry two at a time. Although at first this feels 
 limited, you eventually realise it adds an extra layer of depth. You are forced to play with all 
 the guns available, and the weapons that you find can often give hints to the enemies you will 
 face (eg: a LAARK will mean a big boss, a Shotgun a load of spinners)
  there are new enemies- and quite a variety! First of are the 'spinners'- basically early stage 
 cimera that act like zombies. You can even chop of their limbs. there are chameleons, which as 
 the name suggests are cloked- giving some of the tenset moments. You also have the returen of all 
 the old ones (despite looking a bit different) and finally, big baddies. 
  You will end each level witha huge enemy, whoch range from the leviathian in Chicago to the scorpion/spider 
 thing in Idaho. these are all fantastic fun to take down. 
  
  
  And now the downside- Despite it all the story mode is lacklustre. Talking nathan hale just isn't 
 likable, nor are his co characters. There is a plot, but it doesn't feel important. And it ends 
 alright- but it is still a cliffhanger that leaves much room for a sequel. 
  
  Just to mention the multiplayer- it is fantastic, and i would particulary like to point out the 
 cooperative mode- online missions where 8 of you play at a time. These are just great fun and a 
 leveling system as well as multiple maps make it very replayable. You can play online with two 
 people of the same machine (an easy system to use- the second controller just presses start) and 
 there are always people to play against. 
  
  So to sum it all up, although the action is much improved, the basic story telling isn't. but for 
 a shooter that is best online, this doesn't really matter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krystofar
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Solid single player campaign. As engaging and fun as GRAW's single player campaign. The cinematics 
 are impressive and the storyline is thorough. The weapon selection is impressive. Plenty of drops 
 from bad guys for variety. I love the Auger which shoots thru walls and the 300 round Vulcan style 
 machine gun... wow fun! It's really hard to put the controller down even at 3am. It's a little short 
 at 10-20 hours, and not too re-playable. Multiplayer is a blast and a nice second phase to the 
 game after the campaign. However, it's not GRAW.
  
  A couple quirks... the killer fish you can clearly see and almost touch but can't shoot. That was 
 just stupid. Purists will be annoyed by finding the sniper rifle laying around inside the alien 
 spaceship. Last the single minded attack focus on your player by all MOBS was dumb. They will run 
 past several of your platoon to beeline towards you... not very realistic. The AI could use a little 
 help there and on your squad.
  
  Overall, almost a 9 on my scale. You'll love it if you liked GRAW or Halo, but won't be surprised 
 by it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TubesockMan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  At the launch of the PlayStation 3, there was a little game called Resistance: Fall of Man, and 
 I adored this game. It presented frantic gameplay with an amazing backstory (the campaign story 
 wasn't quite up to snuff) .
  Now, along comes Resistance 2, claiming to be the greatest thing since sliced bread. I'll admit, 
 I broke the cynic's code and got excited, I got happy and believed Resistance 2 was going to be 
 amazing. Good lord was I wrong... Let's start with the gameplay.
  The gameplay hasn't changed particularly from the original except now you have don't have a health 
 bar (damn whoever decided on that) and you don't have magical pockets that can carry the New York 
 Giants without Hale so much as getting a little bit of an ache in his back. The gunplay was left 
 untouched and it really does show, it feels like a rehash of the same game from 2 years back. Although 
 they added a few new enemies (while getting rid of the majority of the good ones from the first 
 game) , all of which are mediocre EXCEPT for the Grims. Good lord, these things are just fantastic 
 to fight, I felt like I was in the movie "28 Days Later" fighting these things! There are no vehicle 
 sections, depending on your preference that's either good or bad, to me it's terrible.
  Something that was irritatingly missing from this game is the Intel, well, there's Intel on your 
 weapons and the secret Intel, but that's it! You don't have any Intel on the Chimera (how do I 
 know what is what's name?) , and you don't have any Intel on the vehicles. The lack of Intel on 
 the vehicles though can be forgiven because you only see like one vehicle, but still, it would've 
 been nice. As for the actual story-portion of the game, it falls flat on it's ass. There is little 
 to no emotional connection to your characters, and none for Hale at all. Aside from somebody going 
 "Aww shucks, I sure feel sorry for Hale at the end!" as seeing as how I don't want to spoil the 
 game, I can't rebut that claim. The story basically flies you around America while patting you 
 on the back saying "Don't worry, this is just something you have to do, don't think! Just do!" 
 because it will literally just drop a huge plot point on you and act as if it's been known for 
 a while.
  The sound in the game is fine, nothing good, nothing bad.
  All in all, it's a good game, just lord knows it's not up to the expectations I had. So I suppose 
 I'll just go back to playing Fallout 3 now... Oh yeah, one other thing, the game seems to glitch 
 up every now and then causing the voices to drop out, that happened to me at the ending and caused 
 me to go "WTF? That's it? No talking just poof?!" I suspected a glitch so I went through the entire 
 game and found out 60% of the in-game dialogue had glitched away. That is UNACCEPTABLE for a game 
 from Insomniac, come on guys, what the hell happened to you? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gh0sthunter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for Resistance 2 for a while, and when I finally got it for Christmas and boy-oh-boy, 
 I was not disappointed.
  
  Let's start off talking about the story. The story starts off right after the first game. Literally. 
 You start off the game when you're in the helicopter to go to Iceland, but the Chimera have already 
 taken over. So you desperately fight for survival to get out alive. In the entire game, you will 
 fight in lots of U. S. states/cities, like Chicago, San Francisco, Idaho, Twin Falls. There is no 
 narrator this time around, but instead there are full 3D cut scenes, but not many of the characters 
 are that interesting except for a doctor and another soldier. Of course you are playing as Nathan 
 Hale by the way, and he joins a group called the Sentinels, which has 3 other characters. You'll 
 learn about questions that were unanswered in Resistance: Fall Of Man, but new questions will arise 
 and be unanswered in the end. About the ending, well, let's just say it ends in a way it shouldn't. 
 If you beat the game and see the ending, you'll know that there might be a Resistance 3 sometime 
 in the future.
  
  Now the gameplay. The gameplay is fantastic. You have to take on hundreds of Chimera throughout 
 the entire game and literally use almost all of your ammo to survive. It has non-stop action with 
 some great boss battles. Speaking of boss battles, the bosses are ENORMOUS. Holy God, they take 
 up the entire screen sometimes, that's how big they are! They're fun to kill, sometimes a little 
 easy, but whatever, it's fun! In Resistance 2 you can only carry 2 guns. Yes, 2. The good thing 
 is that Insomniac always puts a gun at a place where you need, so if they put the LAARK, you'll 
 know something big is coming. This makes things sometimes predictable, but it makes it so you don't 
 have to worry about which weapon to use. There are no vehicle sequences here, but it didn't need 
 any. The campaign takes about 10-14 hours depending on if you run through the game or collect things.
 
  The multiplayer is a totally different story. There are 2 modes: Cooperative and Competitive. 
 
  Co-op is one of the biggest changes in the multiplayer. You and 7 oher people have to do missions 
 that are not in the campaign. You're not the super-soldier that you are in single-player, so everyone 
 has to choose 1 of 3 classes: Soldier (Soldiers have a minigun-type gun with a force barrier) , 
 Medic (Medics drain the life out of enemies and heal everyone) , and Special Ops (Special Ops provide 
 ammo for the entire team, so a Soldier cannot survive by himself) . Co-op is very very fun, and 
 Resistance 2 is worth buying just for this. There is offline co-op, but that's the nmost disappointing. 
 You CANNOT play through the campaign split screen, it is only single-player. You have to do the 
 missions that you do online, but with only 2 people. That's bad, since you need at least 3 people 
 to survive. Well, that's about it of the co-op mode.
  Competitive mode is like the one in Resistance: Fall Of Man, except it counts your experience points, 
 so the player with the most exp. wins. This is good and bad, but mostly good. There are 4 modes: 
 Skirmish, Core Control, Team Deathmatch, and Deathmatch. Nothing that special, just your basic 
 multiplayer modes. Up to 60 people can play at a time, so think about what a 60 player deathmatch 
 would be like:) . Anyways, competitive mode is great too, with some improvements.
  
  The graphics in Resistance 2 could be a little better, but I think it's better than the first Resistance's.
 
  
  All in all, Resistance 2 is a must have for PS3 users as well as for FPS fans! Did I mention it 
 has trophies? Yes, it does! ;)
  
  Story: 9.5/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Sound: 10/10
  Multiplayer: 10/10.
  
  Overall: 9.8/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  i once tried the first resistance just outta curiosity, then what do ya know?!!!! it becomes a must-own-for 
 the ps3!!! lol its a great game those of you people who l9oves fps'!!! (first person shooters) 
 its got excellent online!!!! best story mode ever!!!!!!! and co op is alright, but not as good as 
 they made it sound as, but if you want to really understand this story you HAVE TO GET THE FIRST 
 RESISTANCE TO UNDERSTAND IT!!!!!!!!!!! so dont just go and get resistance 2, you have to get number 
 1 to really enjoy number 2!!!!! please take my advice! its a great game though, it can be addictive, but 
 not if you have other games like call of duty world at war lol. if you are looking to buy a fps 
 with your money, id say fget this and if you can, get number 1 or get number 1 first! whatever you 
 guys think! happy hunting! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is the perfect example of how to make a sequel to an already great game. Resistance: 
 Fall of Man, a fantastic launch title for the PS3, was always going to be hard for Insomniac to 
 improve upon, but they have managed to do so brilliantly. 
  The campaign begins where RFOM left off by showing its final cutscene as the first for Resistance 
 2. From here, Nathan Hale is transported to various locales to defend against the even more advanced 
 chimera as they begin their invasion of America. Locations include San Francisco, Chicago, Twin 
 Falls and Iceland as well as others, and each introduce a new challenge. These include defeating 
 a technologically improved Chimeran Goliath and a huge Leviathan (a new 300ft breed of chimera) . 
 
  Speaking of new chimera, there are also the furies which swim through water, making it deadly to 
 take a dip, and - my favourite - the Grims. These are Chimera with noe weapons except their claws, 
 who run at you in huge packs. A particularly memorable moment with these creatures occurs in Chicago, 
 where roughly 100 Grims jump out of buildings into a small alley and chase you and your team.
 
  Luckily, the Grims can be made short work of using the Rossmore shotgun or carbine from the first 
 game. However, there are also new weapons avilable to defeat the now tougher chimeran hordes. These 
 include the Splicer, a weapon which fires spinning discs to cut off limbs, the wraith (a mini gun 
 with a force barrier) , and the bellock - a flame thrower.
  The online element of Resistance 2 has also been greatly improved. There is now a coop mode, allowing 
 teams of up to 8 players, as well as a competitive mode allowing battles between 60 players split 
 into squads. This mode also includes levelling up to unlock new weapons and clothing, however there 
 is much more choice compared to resistance: Fall of Man. 
  Overall, I have given the game a 9/10 simply because I believe that the series is going to get 
 better - so full marks are being reserved in anticipation of an amazing sequel. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 rocks!!! This game is really awesome! One of the best PS3 exclusives! Its an excellent 
 sequel! I got Resistance: Fall of Man first of all 'coz I got interested with the box-art and at 
 that time, R2 was about to be released so I tried RFoM to see how it feels coz I'm not much of 
 an FPS fan but, I surprisingly liked it more than I've expected. My other purpose is to help me 
 decide if I'll get Resistance 2 since, I got my RFoM for almost half the price, I think I got 
 more than what I've paid for. Now with Resistance 2, there was a big improvement with the graphics, 
 added new weapons, bigger campaigns, excellent online and everything else is better in R2! Also 
 the fact that you can just carry 2 guns wasn't a disappointment; instead, it was more of a challenge 
 and made the gameplay more intense and exciting!
  This game is really great! But in my opinion, you'll appreciate this more if you play Resistance: 
 Fall of Man. Resistance 2 is a bigger and better sequel! This is another must-own PS3 exclusive! 
 One of the best FPS to date! if you like shooters, you gotta have this one! if not, this is the 
 time to try one! 
  Support the Resistance against the Chimera scum!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:54 pm PT
Review:  LOL, I only chose that title because this game has SO MANY 
  Left 4 Dead moments, that I had to put that on. 
  
  We'll start with cons:
  - Game has it's 
 glitches. 
  - It's pretty frightening and hard, even for casual. 
  - Graphics aren't the most amazing. 
  - Storyline could be better. 
  - Friends ditch you in 
 campaign mode in all the missions. . . 
  ( not very team-like ) 
  - Co-op should have it's own storyline.
  
  Pros: 
  - Co - Op is amazing though, simply put. 
 
  - Campaign is addictive for me, although weak.
  - Left for Dead moments are amazing. With hundreds of guys running straight at you, and you have 
 your shotgun. LOL. 
  - It's just fun, those games where its just fun. 
  - Lots of content actually, specially for a shooter. 
  - Addictive
  - Bosses are HOLY CRAP. 
 
  
  This game is actually pretty good. 
  A LOT better than resistance one. 
  I never really liked the first resistance, but this ones great. 
  The guns feel great, although 
 they run out of ammo too quickly,
  Three well thought of classes are good. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazyirishmikey
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 28, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I had mixed reactions about this game ... the single player mode holds true to the original and 
 was very good (recommended) ... BUT ... the Co-op Split Screen was a huge let down (no story line 
 and very repetitive) , why would Insomniac Games mess with something that was so enjoyable for people 
 in the original? When I first bought Resistance FoM (because it was pretty much the only title 
 available for the PS3) I was extremely surprised when I found out that it had a great Split Screen 
 Co-op mode with a story line ... you would think that Insomniac would want to continue this in 
 the sequel ... BUT you would be wrong.
  
  I personally don't think it would have been too hard for Insomniac to split the screen and add 
 a story or the story line to the game making it a more complete for everyone.
  
  The On-line Co-op mode is just like all the others, pretty much. If you've seen one you've seen 
 them all ... for now. 
  
  Like I said, I had mixed reactions about this game. Do I think it's worth the money? Possibly ... 
 it all depends what you're looking for in a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holy_Terra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 11:44 am PT
Review:  I did not play the original and it took me longer than expected to complete the game on mere normal 
 mode. Nevertheless I had just been dissapointed by End War (included microphone decided to be retarded 
 and not work and EU and Spetsnaz are no match for JSF making it one sided) . Anyway enough with 
 Clancy, You start off as you know with withdrawing from England and the beautiful start lines *The 
 US send 12,000 troops to aid the British... only one survives* YOU! This immediatley allows you 
 to picture your fight with Chimera if they've taken Britain, Europe, RUSSIA?! how can you possibly 
 win? But a mix of great skill and fantastic weaponry such as Fareye sniper rifle that slows down 
 time so your shot becomes a hs on a moving target to the magnum pistol, powerful but rounds explode 
 and of course Rossmore invaluable against invisble Chameleons and hordes of grims (Chameleons invisible 
 creatures that you can feel the footsteps and see the outline of 10 metres ahead of you before 
 they slice you limb from limb, grims *think thats their name* charge at you in frantic hordes trying 
 to overrun you and can be at every turn and nearly made me **** myself when you are climbing through 
 the wreckage of Chicago *say no more*) .
  
  Anyway thats guns and the beginning of the plot but as you can guess an alien race arent going 
 to be like us just metal firing, flak armour wearing freedom fighters. They range from as above 
 the Footsoldier who appear even though to be the norm still bloody effective if they get a good 
 shot or two in (if they do!) and the shielded drones fluttering around near invincible to anything 
 short of mind-powers (people who have finished it will know what i mean) and the LAARK bazooka 
 or Wraith gatling gun. Basically the soldiers of the Chimera that you see every mission prove to 
 be relentless and barely ever shurk from close quarters as i was shocked to find out in the first 
 mission! Of course as you go through the enemies are shown to you but what really is good is often 
 with earlier games (maybe i was just being dumb) but I found some parts tricky with no hints on 
 what weapons to use against the enemy and where to hit them when I got the weapon. Resistance 2 
 had no such problem and tips appeared during the battles where to hit them and what to use precisely 
 (a mundane example but bear with me: Chameleons, one WELL placed shot can stop that bastard from 
 getting you!) More tips appear later for the NUMEROUS troops that attack you.
  
  What is lovely about the mass fights when its not that the enemy have the better skills and are 
 bigger but its you and a number of SRPA fighting against large forces of Chimera troopers you: 
 armed with the M5A3 Carbine against them: armed with Ak-47s...
  
  ... nah just messing Bullseyes (Mk II and Mk I) A good one of these I found was in Chicago where 
 loads of enemies and a fair number (remember every man counts when everywheres crawling with Chimera!) 
 of either your mates on CO-OP or AI troops that are pretty effective which is pretty usefull when 
 you need to duck and heal.
  
  My last point (this is my first review because the game is worth it!) is the bosses ranging from 
 the near T-Rex sized Marauder and the Kraken they variey so much that it never ends up boring when 
 there is always a tactic that is mundane but is the only way to kill the creature granted and it 
 maybe best that you use the LAARK while trying to destroy a Titan rather than a Bullseye... But 
 nevertheless they always varey they are very different there are numerous monsters that climb buildings 
 to catch you others just crush them lol. Of course The absolutley gigantic Chimera in Chicago is 
 just bloody brilliant (unfortunatley I do not know its name) anyway it was suprisingly easy but 
 when I first saw it smash that VTOL (SRPA Aircraft) out the sky I immediatly thought me and 4 guys 
 armed with machine guns are taking on Godzillas brother. but my heart was thumping and even though 
 it wasnt real every bit of the game put my heart rate at 1000! *BIG POINT* The game was never boring! 
 It always had suspense and me constantly yelling at my brother to turn the music down so that I 
 could hear every footstep my enemy was taking was he above me by my side and best place for this 
 was using your flashlight in the cellar below a house after a crash you with a shotgun searching 
 through a house filled with creatures that charge you like zombies from Dawn of the dead (although 
 sickly brown coloured and had four eyes and jumped out of cacoons but thats not the point) . Every 
 moment you here a door creak or the radio randomly turn on ( I loved the look on my brothers face 
 when he entered a dark room with a sudden noise saying "Hello Philadelphia" in a corny american 
 voice made him jump and drop the controller) everything including the screams of the odd friend 
 start screaming as he is shot to hell or ripped to pieces gives you a heart attack!)
  
  Inconclusion BRILLIANT game only problem with it (which isnt really a problem) is that the game 
 on normal alone is almost impossible Im not going to even try to complete it on hardest mode! Nevertheless 
 brilliant game note: chance of a sequel seems almost definite although players who finished the 
 game and watched cinematic may think the chances of being Hale again are very low.
  
  Amazing but the odd tweak could have made it better so an excellent 9.5 out of 10 and looking forward 
 to sequel hope it appears sooner than the 2 year gap between this and fall of man. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetpotatofry
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I'll tackle the single-player first. I've always been the type of player to complain when games 
 don't offer enough variety in the environments (which is why I tend to flock to RPGs) . Halo is 
 the greatest example of this: unplayable because I don't understand how anybody can enjoy running 
 around the same three or four environments for the entire length of a game. So Resistance 2, a 
 game in which each level is significantly different from the others, should be right up my alley, 
 right? No. I hate to say it, but even though it sports a unique variety of locations, it comes 
 at the cost of any sense of cohesion and the flow of the game suffers heavily from it. The levels 
 themselves are well built and interesting but they're ultimately too short, which means that most 
 of the "wow" moments scattered throughout just don't have the impact that they should. Also, it's 
 just way too easy (but to be fair, most FPSs are) and I often found myself looking forward to the 
 next save point so that I could turn the console off and find something more interesting to do. 
 Like my homework, or LittleBigPlanet.
  
  The multiplayer is okay, but in the end Call of Duty 4 was just so solid that I have trouble picking 
 up any other online multiplayer game and enjoying it. Maybe that's flawed logic, but that's just 
 the way it is. Also, there are several small flaws that grated on me over time. For example, it 
 takes A LOT of bullets to kill an enemy, and that doesn't have to be a bad thing, but everyone 
 (humans and Chimera alike) move so quickly that it's easy to flee or find cover when you're getting 
 shot at. It's frustrating to shoot at somebody for what should be plenty of time only to watch 
 them run for cover before you've finished them off. The one positive of the online experience is 
 that the maps are all interesting and varied, which is something that most online FPSs can't seem 
 to get a grasp of.
  
  Overall, it's not a horrible game but I would in no way recommend it for a purchase. Honestly, 
 I don't even think it's worth a rental... But I suppose it could be fun to play over at a friend's 
 house (as long as he's the one who spent $60 on it, not you) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: burstlimit514
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 1:25 pm PT
Review:  The chimera virus has spread to the united states now and it seems your getting worse. A few secrets 
 are revealed in this great sequal and the comabt and graphics are better.
  
  The single player gameplay is WOW. From the great looking land scape to the large bosses the single 
 player experience is good enough for even those who dont play online. Some weapons are brought 
 back to this game like the carbine and bullseye while adds new ones and improves a few. For example 
 now this one weapon (bear with me i cant remember the name) that shoots through walls will now 
 let u be able to see the heat signatures other than just aiming everywhere and waiting for your 
 redicult to turn red. Thier are a lot of enemys popping up in this game which makes it challenging 
 but the harder the better. I will say the the graphics could be better. But with all this content 
 u have to let the graphics go down some. Also i will say this. No one can finish this game without 
 dying because you never know what the chimera are thinking.
  
  The online part is what everyone wants. Their are 60 players in a deathmatch and team deathmatch 
 which gets crazy esspecialy when teammates melee kill you. Their is also core controll which is 
 just like capture the flag only when you steal the enemys core you cant shoot. Their is also skirmish 
 which is funner in 60 minute matches with 60 players. You are fighting over machines that you must 
 controll and dont let your enemys take over or protect. And occasionaly have a target player to 
 kill or protect. The next mode is co-op. Up to 8 players join forces to fight off chimera that 
 are tougher than the ones in single player. Before you start though you have to pick from 3 classes. 
 Soilder, medic, and speacil ops. It is good to learn to be good in all 3 classes because of the guns 
 and skills like healing teammates, giving teammates ammo, and healing them. The battles are like 
 100 chimera vs 8 people. It gets challenging when the whole map is gaurded by chimera while your 
 whole team is injured with and irresponsible medic.
  
  Overall this is one of the best games i have ever played. I really consider buying this game if 
 you have a lot of time on your hands and like the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Right off the bat this game is truely amazing from start to finish. From terrific gun battles to 
 boss fights and its amazing online.
  
  
  The Good:
  -The graphics look stunning even not on a HD television
  -Boss battles are amazing
  -The lighting 
 effects are terrific
  -60 player online with hardly any lag
  -cooperative is fun
  -Bigger bader and better guns
  -Tons of fun
  
  The bad:
  -can be difficult at times due 
 to lack of cover
  -run low on ammo
  
  
  Skirmish- Is very fun probably the best type of online game where your broken up into squads and 
 you get points for doing objectives and killing the other team.
  
  Core Control-Basicaly capture the flag but no flag 
  
  Cooperative-Great mode where there are 
 3 types of humans sniper, medic, and solider and get through the game fighting horde after horde.
 
  
  
  So overall this game is very amazing the ending could have been better but its good enough a great 
 game and my recommendation is buy this game and if you dont then definetly rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobby_T_G
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 27, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  RS promised so much, and with so many people wanting it, why does it fell like your kissing a hot 
 cousin. Its something that you can do, but doesn't feel right.
  
  For starters its not in full HD. As a marquee game, one would expect that all the bells and whistles 
 would be pulled out, also with all the teething problems worked out from FOM, why then does the 
 network keep dropping out.
  
  With a campaign that is designed to keep the player going, why does it end so soon. Not as quick 
 as COD4's but it only takes 6-10 hours, depending on how many times the phone rings.
  
  With an ending that leaves the way open for another Resistance game, one can only hope that they 
 go all out. A better and more attractive storyline and full campaign co-op, not mini co-op's which 
 is very miss-leading.
  
  Insomniac, fix the E'ffn network, fix the graphics, full HD, and increase the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zuddet
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 3:40 am PT
Review:  I recently bought this game mainly because it's one of the few games released that's got a co-op 
 mode. I got Resistance: Fall of Man as soon as it got out on the market and I thought it was an 
 incredible game. One of the things I loved about it was that you could go through the whole story 
 with a friend playing split screen and not miss anything, I miss that. 
  
  On Resistance 2 this feature has been altered so that you have to choose a map on which you want 
 to play on, you have to choose a class, you can't pick up the enemies weapons and on top of that: 
 you have to start over the whole map if you die. 
  Don't get me wrong, it's a great game and I love the online co-op mode and all that. But when I 
 played split-screen with my friend It had a weird, old Doom 1 feel about it.
  
  The single player story is great and I wished Insomniac would have taken advantage of that.
  
 
  Overall, a great game with a few flawes.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkeypoo45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  design/presentation- The story of R2 is the survival of mankind. Nathan Hale fights a leader of 
 the chimera, daedelus. Although R2's single player is a little on the downside, its deep multiplayer 
 and co-op mode makes up for it.
  
  graphics- R2 graphics have improved from the first in size and scale. The bosses are bigger and 
 more detailed and so are the surroundings suach as the mountains in Iceland or the massive skyscrapers 
 in San Fransisco.
  
  gameplay- R2 has a very similiar gameplay mechanic with cod4. Each weapon has a secondary fire 
 such as the carbine has a grenade launcher or the rossmore uses a double shot as a secondary fire.
 
  
  lasting appeal- R2 has a rather short campaign. i completed it in 6 hours but i also died 50+ times 
 so i thought it would be longer. But another reason could be that i played it on casual. Even though 
 the campaign is short the 8 player co-op mode should keep u busy for quite a long time. Also the 
 competitive multiplayer will keep u on for months on end.
  
  R2 is a great game that should be played by every ps3 owner. Its bigger, better and more fun. It 
 has an easy, pick up and play gameplay mechanic. R2 also has a ton of extra features for unlockables 
 to keep u playing for months on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  The first Resistance, in 2006, opened me up to first person shooters and ive been playing them 
 ever since. And the second one is better than the first! To start out, the game looks nice, with 
 some clean-cut graphics. But more important than that, this game has THE best weapons in it out 
 of all the other games ive played.... which is a lot! The good 'ol L23 Fareye is back, slowing 
 time, making sniping a piece of cake! The auger also makes its return, this time showing the enemies 
 in a bright green!! (through any material) but onto the new ones... You get a mini-gun that mows 
 don waves of enemies, an equivalent to the battle rifle in halo, and a revolver with bullets that 
 explode inside the enemy. But the weapon that tops it all off is the splicer! A semi-auto rifle 
 that shoots out red hot, homing saw-blades!! But these weapons wouldnt be ANYTHING without the 
 increased gore! Head-shots are rewarded with head or bodies exploding with blood, limbs and organs 
 flying everywhere! There's also new enemies! Of whom are very smart. There are camouflaging chameleons 
 who show up out of thin air and rip you apart!! There's also these new things called grims, which 
 are pretty much mindless zombies that can run, and attack in packs! They're is also a new, giant 
 chimera, which is pretty much a chimeran t-rex! All those are great, but the best fight is when 
 you find yourself face-to-face with an enemy as tall as the sky-scrapers surrounding you!! Overall, 
 the campaign has some very difficult parts, such as huge war-zone battles, and giant bosses (the 
 plural) fighting you at once. But the campaign also has replay value... it's fun! This fps has 
 awsome multiplayer, online fights! You can have a 60 player team deathmatch!! The game even has 
 an awsome level-up system! Resistance tried something new... an online co-op mode. You team up 
 with up to 8 people and fight harder than normal, chimera, and find yourself doing the same old 
 objectives... although it doesnt differ much, it's still very fun, probably because of the different 
 class system to differ it up. You can be a wraith toting soldier, an ammo giving special ops, or, 
 my personal favorite, a medic! Of whom's weapons heals you, kills your enemies, and fuels you to 
 give your teammates health. Although there's much good about this game, there's a little bit bad 
 with it. The Story line sucks, and the characters constantly sound like macho men. OVERALL! This 
 is a very good fps in every aspect an fps can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for the release of Resistance 2 for quite some time, I was a Beta tester and 
 playing in the Beta only increased my excitement for the game's release. Now that it's finally 
 here, it does not disappoint. The story follows Nathan Hale who is infected by the Chimeran virus, 
 he joins a group called SRPA, composed of super soldiers like Hale all infected in some way by 
 the Chimera, they take inhibitors to suppress the effects of their infections but these can only 
 do so much and Hale struggles with the effects of his infection until the climatic finish, although 
 the ending was sudden, it was epic and leaves room for a possible sequel. The gameplay is a lot 
 like the first entry in the series but more intense and of course fun, the controls have been altered 
 to a more Call of Duty-like scheme. You look down the sights of your weapon with L1 and fire with 
 R1, each weapon features an alt. fire which are very cool and fun to use and experiment with. Thankfully 
 sprinting is included with the push of L2 to allow for quicker movement. The usual arsenal of machine 
 guns, assault rifles, pistols, rockets, snipers and grenades are all present and awesome to shoot. 
 In R2 Insomniac included boss fights which are amazing, the bosses are so huge in scale that it's 
 almost a shame to kill the awesomely evil creatures. The game is so fun to play and great to look 
 at thanks to the use of motion capture and great lighting and shading effects. Resistance 2's online 
 is extremely good, it features a handful of modes which can be played with up to 60 people. Hectic 
 and pulse pounding action is never in short supply in Resistance 2 and should be played by anyone 
 who enjoys an awesome first-person shooter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRAWLL
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 24, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  Well, i bought the original RFOM when it came out, it was my favorite PS3 game and the second one 
 is one of my favorites as well. The game has improved a lot since the last one. More enemies, guns 
 and action over all. The graphics are good. Better than the first one but i must say nothing impressive. 
 The scale of the battels is great... lots of friends, enemies, guns and you. This give R2 a more 
 epic feel.
  
  The story is a little weird, confusing and not so intresting. Mostly because the original also 
 had a weird story and dint explain much. But you wont pay so much attention when your butt is getting 
 blasted by 30 people at the same time.
  
  The co-op and multiplayer are great but i wish they were organized better. But over all they are 
 freaking sweet. The action never stops and points never stop coming.
  
  So buy it play it and come back and tell everyone how good it is. PLease give it to your children 
 for xmass and enjoy one of the best games this year. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Top-A-Gamer
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  havent had resistance 2 for long and i normally right a review after i finished campaign mode. 
 but im bored and im just going to do it.
  
  What i think resistance 2 lacks is good graphics and the AI is poor.
  I mean im playing it on 
 the hardest difficulty beacause i havent unlocked superhuman level and i swear the enemys have 
 brains off Sackboy. Just for laughs i pointed my gun at the chimera and not shooting on purpose 
 it took them like 10 seconds to shoot me and i can see he was looking at me.
  
  However its really fun with big guns and boss fights. and that for me out weights the bad.
  
 
  Cooperative mood is just one big massive battle and who dosent love that.
  
  havent played online 60v60 yet but i can tell it will be great fun.
  
  overall i recommend 
 you by the game.
  
  thanks for reading the review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  I'll start off by saying I really loved the single player campaign in the original game. That game 
 is WAY better than this one! (I don't play online so I'm not interested in any improvements they 
 might have made there)
  
  Don't get me wrong, I just finished the single player campaign of this second game in the series, 
 and while I enjoyed the 13 hours it took me to finish on the normal difficulty, I'm not sure I 
 was playing Resistance 2, or just some other random shooter. 
  
  Well, it says Resistance 2 on the box, but it's like they tinkered around with the formula a little 
 too much, and ended up with a much less satisfying experience than the first game. This new game 
 can be summed up by saying you are basically running and shooting thru some very nice looking environments, 
 but it's all going by so fast you barely have time to notice. They broke the excellent pacing from 
 the first game, this new game is all at high speed and I don't like that. I miss the first games 
 slow parts where you are driving around in a car, or slowly making your way up a mountain. Nothing 
 like that in this second game.
  
  The whole story is different too, like they changed a lot of the story concepts they setup in the 
 first game. Too generic now. And the story itself made no sense and didn't sync up at all with 
 the first game other than your character has the same name. It seemed broken to me.
  
  I miss too the whole washed out color scheme from the first game too. This second game again just 
 looked too generic. (But good, technically everything is all here)
  
  In Summary - A good game, but not worthy of following up the first one. If you never played the 
 first one, get that one instead of this. So in the context that this should be a follow up to the 
 first game, I can only rate it as "Good" due to the steps backwards in gameplay and story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The first Resistance was great, nice dark areas to suit the mood of the story and aliens which 
 will scare your pants off as you face them in gigantic heards. This one, bright areas which don't 
 suit the story at all, giant eggs blocking your way of blowing up sending an alien at you ready 
 to chew on you.
  
  This game has lost it's edge and what was unique about the first game is almost gone, all thats 
 left is alien guns. This is practically a standard shooter now and has not much more to offer and 
 the graphics have (in my opinion) gotten worse. The game has a ridiculous amount of enemys coming 
 at you in one, in some place there is about 40 charging at you in a small room for what happens 
 and some times there is just a stupid amount of the much larger enemys in ridiculous areas. If 
 you like the first on stick with it unless you are a online freak who whats to play with 60 other 
 people, dieing nearly every second then go for it. Game is a good standard shooter and it's has 
 only got a 9.5 from me because of the effort put into realism and the multiplayer. 
  
  
  iiii iiii
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii 
 iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii 
 iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii 
 iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii 
 iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
 
  
  
  iiii iiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:13 am PT
Review:  Resistance 1 for the PS3 was a very good game. Great story, great gameplay, and fun multiplayer. 
 So imagine my surprise when I pop in Resistance 2 and within an hour I'm ready to toss it. The 
 story in Resistance 2, which had me excited moving to the US, is nothing short of dismal. Graphically 
 it looks nearly the same to the first game, yes I put Resistance 1 in for a bit to compare, so 
 no real improvement. The multiplayer seems to be a step down, and with Gears 2 and COD WAW, why 
 should I even play this game online? Back to the campaign, it's extremely linear, and your usually 
 following along behind a squad mate at break neck speed, giving you no chance to check out anything 
 in the various areas. All in all this has to be the most disappointing game I've played this year. 
 I put it down in the "game shelf" and will come back to try to finish it up when I bore of all 
 the other great games out there. With so many great games right now I would not recommend Resistance 
 2 at full price if you don't already have it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zassimick
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 18, 2008 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a game many have compared to Gears of War 2 for the sole reason that R1 and Gears 
 1 were released around the same time, and the same holds true for these two titles. But I will 
 not make any comparisons to Gears 2, as this is a Resistance 2 review. 
  
  Straight to the point on this one. The game is fun. Hard at times, but fun. In the singleplayer 
 campaign Nathan Hale reprises his role and you continue your journey with him seeing all different 
 kinds of locales. 
  
  These levels are fairly linear, but the enemies that constantly swarm you keeps everything very 
 fresh. There are lots of enemies that come for blood, which makes this game all the more difficult. 
 You may want to play on Easy if you are not the greatest at shooters, but most obstacles are overcome 
 with a little bit of patience. 
  
  There is a lot of content to this game. Not only do the trophies and harder difficulties pull you 
 in for another playthrough, there is a separate campaign for up to seven other people. These are 
 more scenarios than an actual story though, which was a little disappointing when jumping right 
 into the coop. But the coop allows you to play as three different classes, each with specific abilities 
 and it keeps things fresh. Plus, the leveling system from the competitve part of the game makes 
 an appearance here and is welcome. 
  
  For online competition, the modes are what you normally find. The more you play these games, the 
 more you level up and gain more perks and fun gear. This can be troublesome if you are just starting 
 out at the game facing off against players who have played since the beginning, but that's the 
 way the world works with all online games it seems. 
  
  The overall package is great. The graphics are clean, sound is good, online doesn't hitch and lag 
 at all really, and the only complaints I have are that the story isn't as well told as it should 
 have been. 
  
  I recommend this title to any shooter fan, as its a ride that is exciting and fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 3:22 am PT
Review:  Where to begin... I will address the ignorant statements made about the game first...
  
  Difficulty too hard? - I played through on normal first time through. I felt normal was "Normal". 
 People who are claiming it was too hard and they died alot simply just do not know how to play 
 the game. If you read the GameSpot review you can not "Rambo" in this game (Or in other terms "Run 
 N Gun". At times you can and must but others you must find cover.
  
  The Truth: Like I said normal felt "Normal" The only times I really died were at the bosses or 
 mini-boss fights, which to me SHOULD happen. They are bosses/mini-bosses for a reason. The only 
 complaint I have about the difficulty is sometimes it is inconsistent. At times it is VERY easy 
 and at other times it is frustrating.
  
  The key though is to know when to pick up other guns, and the game usually does a good job of laying 
 down a specific gun right before going into a specific battle.
  
  The final boss IMO was super easy, and was the only time I was disappointed in the game. Then I 
 thought to myself... wow maybe I just got godly through out and accepted that as a possibility =D
 
  
  You must use squad-tactics in this game to survive some battles. The other claims about the AI 
 not being good is just rubbish. If you Run N Gun then yes the enemies are going to go straight 
 for you, but if you stay within your squad or fall back a little to regenerate health, your friends 
 will take the fire and I personally saw allie AI taking out a good bit of baddies (Excluding mini-bosses)
 
  
  Next.... Copyrights? (aka R2 stole ideas)
  The opposite in my opinion, Insomniac took a lot of things that people like and put them ALL in 
 ONE game. Which works... very well.
  
  You have hectic battles where you see bullets flying everywhere, things blowing up, bodies flying. 
 Then you're going down dark corridors with creepy feels and in your face encounters. Next you have 
 tactical battles where you must think. Then sniping agendas... the list goes on. This game has EVERYTHING 
 rolled into one package. Every game has inspiration, and just about everything IS this games inspiration, 
 but it works so well.
  
  Graphics: The game overall looks much better than the first. The colors, the effects, everything. 
 I must admit I don't know how many times I died in awe of the boss battles. Not because I couldn't 
 beat them, but because I was so impressed with the visuals. Not to say it has the best graphics 
 I have seen, but the detail on the bosses in particular were simply amazing. If I had to choose 
 one word to describe the graphics I'd choose "Crisp".
  
  Online: Simply the best online play, right up there with COD4. At first the layout might confuse 
 you as they seem to clump "staging" rooms together with the new "Squad" system, but you will get 
 use to it only after a few team matches.
  By far the best and new mode is "Skirmish" the feeling of hearing you are the priority target and 
 you see red dots massing around you on the mini-map with no allie in sight is quite exhilirating.
 
  
  They did seem to copy COD4 style, they incorporated a "Perk System" that you will either love or 
 hate. The invisibility is by far my favorite. The balancing of the perks or "Beserks" could use 
 some attention but overall it works.
  
  Since there are Medals and Ribbons to get, the online competition will have you sucked in for awhile, 
 simillar to COD4. And R2, just like its predecessor, runs completly lagless online. The reward 
 system with unlocking skins is very cool and much better than the first. You can customize much 
 more of your equipment and even customize CHIMERA!!
  
  The only bad thing I really have to say about this game is the lack of weapons. They have a couple 
 of the old favorites but really didn't bring nothing new to the table in terms of weapons as they 
 did in the first one. The best one being the Splicer IMO. The Wraith comes in at a close second 
 though. The Bullock on the other hand is quite useless, it just seems it's missing one more crazy 
 gun to satisfy.
  
  The final verdict: The game takes aspects of just about every other game out there and rolls into 
 one package, so you get the good of just about every good game. The Online: If you don't like fast 
 paced Run N Gun type play I wouldn't purchase it. The Campaign: Definetly worth a rental just for 
 the campaign.
  
  The best OVERALL FPS I have played to date
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.5/10
  Multiplayer: 10/10
  Tilt: 10/10
  Difficulty: Easy-Medium
  Learning Curve: 
 New to the Series - 30-45min Experienced Players - 10min
  Story: 8/10
  Bugs/Glitches: Nothing Major
  
  Any questions feel free to message me, I'd be glad to answer 
 them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pharoah__Link
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  R2 is an amazing game. Any PS3 owner should have this in their collection. This game has something 
 that will appeal to most gamers, single player, a co op campaign and online multiplayer. Each section 
 is so good it really is 3 games in one.
  
  Story: While Resistance: Fall of Man seemed like a documentary and was not in Hale's perspective. 
 Resistance 2 is in Hale's perspective and feels more like an action movie. But this does not mean 
 a better story. Characters are not as developed as you would hope. The actual plot is good but 
 not great and the ending will make you very very confused. But all the new things you learn about 
 the Resistance universe and the Chimera is very very interesting. The single player campaign is 
 around 10 hours long so it is a bit shorter than R1. The co op campaign doesn't really have a story. 
 But its good enough you're in a squad of eight going around and shootin' some Chimera...
  
  Gameplay: First thing to know R2 has a different control scheme than R1. And the new controls are 
 way better. R1 was Halo-ish but that is not a bad thing, because that made it feel like you were 
 playing a classic. R2 switches to CoD style gameplay. The change is very good because it makes 
 the game seem more realistic. Many of you favorite from Fall of Man have returned including the 
 carbine, bullseye, and many more (with upgrades!) . And new weapons like the magnum, and marksman 
 are great new additions. The enemy AI is great but the friendly AI is not stupid but a bit useless. 
 Obviously this was to make the game challenging. R2 also has some great boss fight. Usually it 
 is the size of these guys that automatically makes them worth playing. The final boss however was 
 a bit too easy. But still some fun to play. R2 also has a co op campaign and multiplayer. The co 
 op has three classes, Soldier which is the main damage dealer and is for mowing down enemies. Spec 
 Ops (my favorite :) ) is kind of like a sniper and have ammo packs to resupply ammo. The medic well 
 I don't have to explain. There is no co op for the single player and 2 person split screen is not 
 very fun with the co op seeing that each class needs each other very desperately. However two people 
 can go split screen and play with up to six other players, same goes for the competitive. The most 
 welcome addition in the multiplayer is skirmish. What it is...60 players split into squads and 
 are doing objectives. And it is a TON of fun. 
  
  Grapics: Resistance 2 is beautiful. The cinematics are NOT CGI but simply full rendered. I'm guessing 
 that means the engine is pushed to its limits during the cinematics. The ingame graphics look pretty 
 good too but could be better. Scale also makes the tech behind this game one of the most impressive 
 this year. If you have no idea what I'm talking about go on YouTube and look up "R2 Leviathan" 
 and you'll know exactly what I mean. Oh and the online doesn't lag even with 60 players... Insomniac 
 is probably using black magic but I don't care the R2 engine is pretty damn good.
  
  Sound: Believe it or not sound is way more important than you think. Taking out the sound is taking 
 out half the fun. Resistance 2 has very talented voice actors including the one behind Nathan Hale's 
 voice (HE TALKS IN THIS GAME!!) seriously it's a shame Fall of Man Hale only had like 5 lines... 
 The music also sounds very nice especially with the new theme. The guns sound very good too.
  
  Value/tilt: Resistance 2 is worth every single penny. Buy it if you have the first game. If 
 you don't read a bit about the story then buy this game. PS3 owners I am proud to present to you 
 *drum roll*... the Halo killer/owner/pwner/player who crouches over his fallen foes online. This 
 game may look like it doesn't have anything that special but what's in here is executed very well. 
 If there is a game that you need for the holidays and you like shooters R2 is the way to go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GoDofWaR7845
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  this game is my number one shooter of 2008. its so fun! i mean the bosses are freaking gigantic, 
 and the levels are so detailed and so beautiful. sure at some points the graphics arnt that amazing, 
 but there are mostly points where you'l say: "damn!!!". the singeplayer is really good, its pretty 
 long for a shooter, the story is pretty nice, great weapons, huge enemies, and huge numbers of 
 enemies at once. overall ill give the campaign a 9/10. but what is the best thing about this game 
 is the online. i mean its so **** fun! its not that you get just the old competative online in 
 most games, but you get a **** up to 60 players online! and an 8 player co-op which is the most 
 today! the competative is great! its like call of duty 4 combined with halo. but better!
  the co-op is also great, it reminds a little of TF2's classes. you get to choose 1 of 3 classes, 
 level them up, get new weapons and armor, and of course you have to do alot of teamwork if you 
 dont your screwd. ill give the online a 9.5/10
  
  overall this game is amazing, buy it for sure. worth all your 60 bucks. i give this game overall 
 a 9.5/10. enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaXeR
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  I'll just cut right to the chase: This game is F-ing amazing. Great story, and surprisingly easy 
 to understand for someone who's new to the series. (yeah, i admit, i never played Fall of Man. 
 I wanted to, but just kept forgetting about it.) Gameplay is awesome; think Unreal Tournament meets 
 COD4. And that's another thing, a lot of people have been comparing this to Halo and calling it 
 the "PS3's Halo". The only aspect i agree with that on is that it's a popular Sci-fi FPS exclusive 
 to the console, but other than that, it's not like Halo..... it's much better, in my opinion. Much 
 more grittier, more gory, and less arcade-y than Halo.
  
  But anyway, back to the R2: Great story, and the ending was sick. (don't worry, i won't spoil it.) 
 I mean, it's kinda predictable, and you kinda figure it's gonna happen, but when it actually happened 
 i went "Holy ****!"
  
  And online play is just as addicting as COD4's. You have a similar leveling system, in addition 
 to several things to level up in. You can level up in Competitive, level up in the 3 different 
 classes in co-op, and increase your main rank. The 60-man deathmatchs in competitive are really 
 fun, and are just craziness. And the co-op is also very addicting. You really have to play as a 
 team in order to survive, and utilize your classes abilities to help your team.
  
  Overall, this is one of the best (if not THE best) PS3 exclusive to date. I give this a 9.5/10. 
 
  
  Bravo, Insomniac. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 19, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  As soon as you land into the Resistance 2 game world, you realize their are no rest periods. This 
 games is an action paced thrill ride that never ends. This games moto is "kill first, ask questions 
 later" which seems ever evident has you play through the story. The scenary in game levels are 
 dynamic and enemies seem larger than life at moments when they count the most. Level designs are 
 sometimes mind blowing. Watching a alien war ship hoover in the sky reminds me of my favorite scene 
 from Independence Day. You actually feel small in a world that wants to eat you alive which most 
 games fail at. The enemies are as diverse the scenary meaning strategy is alive and strong in this 
 game which offers the mature crowd a more acceptable game. Though this game has good graphics, 
 better average gameplay, and in-game action that can not be matched, the game has it flaws. When 
 I purchase a game, I purchase it for the one-player campaign due to the fact I am not fan of online 
 play, but this games campagin is not worth the asking price because the games campaign is not long 
 enough. Also the games has some very beautiful and mind blowing cutscenes, but they are too little 
 too few making it hard for some gamers, like myself ,to gain an emotional attachment to the characters, 
 but it is enough to make the very interesting story beliavable. Another flaw like most shooters 
 is it feels a little childish, but unlike most shooters, this shooter is packaged into a more mature 
 product. Another flaw is the game is very linear which is not bad, but many in game action sequece 
 seem scripted which sometimes feel forced. An example is I was thrown the distance of Tyra Banks 
 foreheard into a building by a monster the size of Godzilla and i survived. I would die later and 
 do the same scene over for the same thing to happen again. Though this is not bad, Fallout 3 and 
 Dead Space excel at making scripted action seem fluid at times when they should be too much to 
 believe. Another thing that seems weird is the crazy amount of soldiers coming at you left and 
 right and the inaffectiveness of A. I. soldiers to take out enemies. Another big annoying flaw is 
 invisible swap aliens that will have you restarting as much a Midnight Club LA forces you too. 
 
  
  The game is fast paced and fast. The ending is very satisfying, enough to wonder what they will 
 do in the next installment. Resistance 2 is a very good game and is definitly worth a rent or buy, 
 depending on preference. More cut scenes would of made this game more dramatic, but the end product 
 is still well polished. 
  
  Pros: Graphics, action packed game play, expansive scenary, strategy, beautiful level detail, appealing 
 story (though not much explanation) , and Wow moments
  
  Cons: It is a shooter meaning there are a million enemies to kill at every given moment. Not enough 
 story, but it does a good job nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps30wner76
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  haven't been the game yet, but I am very close. So far what really stands out for me is not the 
 graphics, sound, story, or multiplayer... it's the difficulty. I haven't died this much in a video 
 game since q-bert! Yeah I'm old, I hit the big 30 last week.... anyway...
  
  The graphics. The graphics are good, but the textures are a little muddy. You're not really going 
 to notice though. I am not a programmer or designer, but if they increased the texture res, I think 
 it may hurt the game in framerate. Why? Cause the levels are massive in scope... the distance you 
 see in some of the levels...... wow.. the scale is what they were going for, and exceeded! 
  
  The sound. The sound is great in my 5.1 dolby, but it still isn't as good as Dead Space. I 
 think this is so because there are so many things happening at times, that you can get lost or 
 objects can be drowned. The voice acting or just playin audio track seems a bit subdued. A NPC 
 may be right next to you, but sounds like you are talking with them through a old walkie-talkie. 
 
  
  The fun factor/playability. This is another area where it keeps the game from perfection. I found 
 the difficulty level ramped up significantly over the last game. It's fun once you get a hold of 
 the learning curve, but you still die a lot. And I found that the everyone can take a bullet well 
 except you. You have to pump enemies so full of lead, that you may run out by the time you really 
 need it. Although all these are an deterrent from playing, I find myself going back over and over 
 again. 
  
  Overall, it's a good game.... just hoped for a little more. It's fun, but difficult... and for this 
 holiday season, you won't find much of a better FPS on PS3. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 5:38 am PT
Review:  Having bought this for a mere 20 quid, i wasnt expecting much more than a dissapointing alien shooter. 
 However, i was pleasently surprised, once you drag yourself away from "this isn't anything like 
 the 1st game" you are challenged with a pretty, and i mean beatuiful looking 1st person shooter. 
 The game mechanics have changed with a sprint button being the most useful, and some really detailed 
 enemies. The bosses are huge and give a 90s retro feel to it, which i think isn't a bad thing, 
 a sense of satisfaction after defeating some hard end of level gaurdians. Some of the gameplay 
 can feel a little confined to set paths but you quickly forget this and where you are when faced 
 with plenty of angry alien scum trying to eat you, shoot you, burn you and even drown you!! Don't 
 think your in for the same harrassment from these alien home-wreckers as the previous game, everything 
 feels bigger, more colourful and a lot more going on at once!! (and the 1st had loads of action!!) . 
 Some really fun weapons are incorporated into your skirmish with death and new additions welcome 
 the varied onslaught you ll encounter, most notibly the "rail gun" that can shoot through walls 
 and other matter (hmm where have i seen that before?? ps1) . Dont be fooled though, this isnt an 
 easy game (on hard) and you ll sometimes meet a frustrating end, and sometimes you may run out 
 of ammo, but that only adds to the rambo save the world hero that you are. Plus it doesnt stop 
 there, the multiplayer HAS to be played, 60 players online without a pc, cool!! This game is worth 
 every penny, the 1st was awesome, this is the jim carrey of games, unpredictable and great fun!! go 
 and buy it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BiancaDK
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 15, 2008 3:37 am PT
Review:  
  As far as online shooters goes, this one is definitely worth the money. Immense action, decent 
 framerate, no lagspikes - all in all a wholly positive experience.
  
  As far as single-player campaign goes, this game really doesent deliver, atleast not for me. Huge 
 bosses every now and then, but after playing shadow of the collossus, im really not that easily 
 impressed. The bosses in Resistance 2 are pretty and sizeable, but my kid sister could beat them 
 on medium difficulty, and she is -not- a gamer by any standards.
  
  This is a point-and-click shooter, just keep the mousebutton pressed and the crosshair centered, 
 and youll be sure to hit your target eventually, pretty much regardless of weapon or range. You 
 really cant manipulate the aim by changing the point of direction or anything advanced like that. 
 Just stop running around and unload a good spray - that oughta take care of it. Ofcourse, this 
 is not a negative element for all players, but it is for me - since the weapons lose their charms 
 and personality quite quickly.
  
  The split-screen coop "campaign" was awful, the one in resistance 1 was far superior in many ways. 
 In resistance 1, it actually worked, and you got the chance to actually play the single-player 
 campaign with a friend. That lead to alot of shared and fun experiences. In Resistance 2, only 
 1 of you will gain experience after every level beaten, that being player 1. The other one will 
 lose her/his level the second you exit the game... Why? -.- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3wizard45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 corrects all the mistakes made in the first game, so I will go down the line of improvments.
 
  1st. No more lack luster opening, Resistance 2 opens with a bang and ends with bang! 
  2. Hugley improved visuals, Resistance 2 definetly takes advantage of the Ps3's Blu-Ray capabilities 
 by displaying massive battles with hundreds of beatifully rendered soldiers and Chimera slugging 
 it out.
  3. Much more interesting story, Resistance 2 explores more into the origins of the Chimera, and 
 brings Nathan Hale and his squad of "sentinetels" to life through awesome cutscenes. The only bad 
 part of the story is the cliff hangar ending. 
  4. Improved Multiplayer with 60 peoples dishing it out! and 8 player seperate CooP! 
  5. Better 
 Weapons, This is opinion, but I found the weapons to be way better this time around.
  6. Controls are so much better this time! 
  7. Animation techniques are awesome, especially in 
 cutscenes.
  8. Much more diverse enemys this time! 
  9. improved squad AI, not so much for enemys.
  But all is not well, there is problems, but they 
 don't take away from the overall experience the game offers.
  1st. Sound, allthough good for the most part, it sounds like you are talking through a mic when 
 you are right next to the person, it can be kind of aggervating. 
  2nd. Enemys sometimes completely ignore your allies and go straight for you, making the game really 
 hard at times.
  3. Bosses, they are really boring and bad and kind of a let down.
  
  Overall Resistance 2 is a great game that you should definetly pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bioshockraptor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Plus: The multiplayer has significantly evolved.
  Minus: There are minor graphic glitches and los resolution textures.
  Interesting: Insomniac 
 seem to have gone for a bit of a horror theme this time around.
  
  Resistance 2 is a FPS game released in November around the world exclusively for the Playstation 
 3. The story carries straight on from the last cutscene after the credits in Resistance: Fall of 
 Man. In case you haven't played or finished the original this is a [SPOILER] . Nathan Hale destroys 
 the main Chimeran Tower in England which sets off a chain reaction and destroys all the Angels 
 and Towers. [SPOILER OVER] Hale is walking and the SRPA, a team of soldiers, land in a VTOL, which 
 is a helicopter-like aircraft, and take him away. Hale joins the Sentinels, a team of men that 
 are also resistant to the Chimeran virus. They go on missions and do crazy war things that soldiers 
 in these kind of games do, but what's really awesome about this game is the Chimera. 
  
  There are all new breeds of Chimera, and the old ones. In the prelude level you see this weird 
 Chimera called Daedalus, and he is, obviously, the main villain of the game. In Resistance 2 you 
 won't be eliminating the chimeran virus from the world, but you will find out good information. 
 There are 3 other members of the Sentinels; Warner, Hawthorne and Cappelli. They each have their 
 own weapons and personalities. Warner has the marksman, a battle rifle with zoom, Cappelli has 
 the wraith, a power chain machine gun, and Hawthorne has a shotgun, which is self explanatory. 
 You find a small bit of information about them in the story line, but the intel documents tell 
 you much more information. The intel docs aren't a compulsory part in the game but if you can find 
 them they give you good background information about the Sentinels. 
  
  The gameplay is very similar to R: FOM, but very much improved also. Some people say it's more 
 like Call of Duty 4 this time around rather then Halo. That could be the case, and while the gameplay 
 isn't revolutionary it's still as ever fun. The weapons are good too, but in R2 you can only hold 
 two weapons at time. People can argue whether this is good or bad, but it gets you to think about 
 which weapons to drop/pick up, and also makes it more realistic. 
  
  Something that's really great about R2 is the controls, they have been improved from the original 
 game, also like the graphics. The graphics are very good, if not awesome, but occasionally there 
 will be some weird textures but someone probably wouldn't notice them if they're having fun in 
 the game, and the same with the music. The sound effects are really good but you really don't notice 
 the music unless you try to find it, because you're lost in the game and it's greatness.
  
  After the 10-15 hour story mode has been completed gamers want multiplayer that would make them 
 come back and play it again, which is definitely what R2 delivers. There is no 2 player co-op in 
 the story mode because it is meant to be centred around Nathan Hale, however there is a separate 
 story mode that can be played to up 8 players online, and 2 offline. There are no cutscenes and 
 it's loosely based around the SRPA trying to fight the war against the Chimera while the Sentinels 
 handle the more "personal" doings. There are three classes to choose from, Spec Ops, Soldier and 
 Medic. They each have there own strengths and weaknesses, different weapons and different looks 
 to upgrade. Each class can upgrade to level 30, and it definitely takes more then a couple hours, 
 and you will need to work as a team to be successful. If 8 player cooperative campaign and single 
 player campaign aren't enough for a gamer there is the usual online competitive matches. There 
 is core control, deathmatch, team deathmatch, etc, but also a new one called Skirmish. Matches 
 can go up to 60 players and in competitive there are also levels to gain. You unlock different 
 beserks, which are power ups, and skins, etc.
  
  There is definitely enough replay value in this game to make you want to play it for a long time, 
 and to come back again and play it enough until Resistance 3 comes out, which I can tell you, will 
 happen. There are even a few levels that are scary, with Chimera called the Grims that are much 
 like zombies. Even the levels that are in broad daylight you will probably get scared, and R2 is 
 not an easy game, you will die a fair few times on the default difficulty. So Resistance 2 is a 
 solid game that is a definite purchase and only suffers from a small problem of visual consistency. 
 Whatever it takes, this game needs to be played, no matter what fanboys may say about it's similarities 
 to other games, this is an awesome game on it's own.
  
  Story  5/5
  Characters  5/5
  Gameplay  5/5
  Controls  5/5
  Graphics  4/5
  Music  3/5
  Multiplayer  5/5
  Length 
  4/5
  Replay Value - 5/5
  
  Overall Rating: 99/100 - Awesome 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flag58
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  the single player is alright , now the multiplayer is awesome. the single player for a hardcore 
 gamer is 10-12 hours, the story is decent, many twists and turns. but the multiplayer is fantastic 
 u can spend over 4 weeks making one class on cooperative maxed level with all the gear. and since 
 there is 3 classes that would keep that disc in the system, plus adding competitive multiplayer 
 (2-60) players maxed now that is a lot of people to the point where its a war, and u get levels 
 which take awhile but are worth it since you can get some awesome gear such as a grim costume or 
 clank as your backpack, and much more. also there is a bunch of replay value, there are intel documents 
 that will take you awhile to get and trophies, also 4 difficulties one which you have to be story 
 mode on hard to get superhuman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  Intro - Game Information
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, the stronger the restriction)
 
  
  Violence: **** (Strong)
  Bad Language: **** (Strong)
  Fear: *** (Mild)
  Sex: * (None)
  Drugs: * (None)
  Discrimination: * (None) 
  Gambling: * (None)
  
  Age Rating: 
 18 years and over for strong bloody violence 
  Number of player: 1-2
  Multiplayer: 2-60
  SIXAXIS Motion Sensitive: Yes
  
  
  I - Quick Review
  
  The Good: 
  
   Visuals 
 
  The visual designs are the key to the look of a game. And the look in this game is beautiful
 
  
   Controls
  The feel of the controls in game-play
  
   Great Story
  There are stories all around us, and this is a story worth seeing
  
   Boss Fights
  There's 
 nothing like a good boss fight, and in this game you'll find just that
  
   Great Sequel
  It's sometime hard to find a sequel to be better than it's predecessor/s. But for this game, it 
 is
  
   Online Play
  Just because a game has multiplayer features does not mean it will be good. Some online multiplayer 
 features can be disappointing but in this case, this game has a great multiplayer feature
  
   Brutal
  This game is Brutal
  
   Trophies 
  If you like trophies, you'll love collecting 
 these
  
   Friends
  Plays well this others
  
  The bad:
  
   A. I. System 
  The characteristics of the computer A. I. system for enemy or your teammates judgment and knowledge
 
  
   Why Me
  Enemies ignore your A. I. teammates and attack you
  
   Cover Me
  A. I. Teammates are useless and give you no support
  
   Where's my Backup 
  Teammates are 
 a person's best friend, but if the A. I. teammates system is poor don't expect any help.
  
   Death
  A game that you will probably die a lot
  
   Finish Him
  Enemies don't care if 
 they die and hardly ever take cover
  
  Resistance 2 really is an awesome game that I found really worth the long wait for the European 
 release. 
  
  II Plot Review  8/10
  
  Humanity must survive. Every man is needed. 
  I found the plot in Resistance 2 rather interesting and I thought gamestop where a bit harsh saying 
 the story was weak. 
  
  The story follows up just after Fall of Man ended. The play sergeant Nathan Hale, an infected soldier 
 who has 19 hours until the virus in his body takes over. He fights for mankind with ever breathe 
 in his body. 
  
  They say that the victors write history. Now that the fury of the Chimera has been unleashed across 
 the globe, our history will never be the same again. In the face of mankind's darkest nightmare, 
 are you ready to stand up and be counted? Or will you bare witness to the end of mankind.
  
  
  III - Graphics and Presentation Review  9/10
  
  Okay, I'm going to tell you the truth. 
 The graphics in Resistance 2 is amazing, you can't deny that and if you think other whys, then 
 I'm sorry but you know nothing about good looks. I couldn't believe the graphics when the game 
 first started off. I honestly sat there thinking the cut scene was still running when in fact I 
 was in game-play. Some textures look slightly off when up close but the whole look of the game 
 is just fantastic. 
  
  
  IV - Game-Play Review  9/10
  
  The game-play is solid and feels great on any difficulty, however Resistance 2 is a challenging 
 game and you will probably die a few times playing the game. On a harder difficulty you probably 
 die a lot but that does not make the game-play any less great than what it is. There are lots of 
 weapons to play around with including a few that you may remember from the first game. The Chimera 
 are more challenging in Resistance 2 and the boss fight are amazing and MASSIVE. Some boss fight 
 may feel a wee bit week and easy, but there are still cool. The only downfall is the A. I. system. 
 Your computer teammates are unsupportive. Some times you'll find them just sitting there in the 
 middle of battle doing nothing, even when the enemies attacking them. The enemy A. I. system is 
 pretty basic, they duck, pop out the shot and duck again. Occasionally they'll move to another 
 area or run straight at you and ignore you teammates on the way. Despite the weak A. I. system the 
 game-play is amazing. 
  Online is pretty much like the first Resistance but this time play death match, team death match 
 and more with up to a missive 60 player at the one time. Play co-op mode and work together to rank 
 up your character's abilities by killing the Chimera. You have three classes, Medic, Recon or Soldier 
 each will level up on the number of time they are played. The online multiplayer really is massive.
 
  
  
  V - Sound Review  9/10
  
  The sound effects are great, great voice acting, good soundtrack and the over all sound effects 
 are great.
  
  
  VI - Lifespan Review  9/10
  
  Resistance 2 took me about 15hours to finish on hard mode. There are 39 trophies to collect most 
 of which you will get for completing a chapter, a few multiplayer trophies and a few trophies you 
 will have to work for. So in between you collecting the trophies and playing the online multiplayer, 
 there is a lot of replay value.
  
  
  VII - My Final Thought Review  9/10
  I thought Resistance 2 was an awesome game and was so worth the wait, and I'll be looking forward 
 to the next Resistance. 
  
  
  
  VIII - Overall Review  9/10
  
  
  Resistance 2, Awesome.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LtShade
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy the story of resistance it is an amazing looking game. the graphics are even better than 
 the first one and weapons continue to get better. the breeds in this game are widely varied and 
 the difficulty is just right. There are mission in this game that make you feel as though your 
 in an epic movie. The resistance story is a fusion of War of the Worlds, Independence Day, and 
 Resident Evil. The problem i found with this game is the online play it still hasn't hit the proper 
 balance of a good online shooter. its better than the first one but its easy to get frustrated 
 when the opposition kills you faster and your shooting them for a while before they notice your 
 shooting them. All and all the gameplay is amazing and the co-op play is fun both online and off. 
 if you have the money resistance 2 is good game to buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarksjeiK
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  In these days of Call of Duties, Halo's and Gears of Wars you can't even imagine any developer 
 with half a brain to even WANT to release a shooter anymore.
  Every shooter that is released today is immediately compared to either one of those and is usually 
 quickly tossed aside by popular opinion.
  
  Along comes Insomniac with it's sequel to the PS3 launch game Resistance: Fall of Man. A game that 
 did great in sales and was decent enough. Arguably thanks to the lack of any serious competition 
 on the system in it's early days.
  
  Resistance 2 comes out of it's corner swinging and from the very first moment of play sets out 
 to impress. The game doesn't ease you into it's world , it throws you in.
  The scale of things quickly becomes apparent and you'll literally be launching rockets within the 
 first minute of play.
  
  In fact if I had to sum up R2 in one word, it would be that: "scale"
  
  Whether it's the silky 
 smooth 60 ( six-ty !!) player multiplayer games. The Gigantic enemy bosses or the hordes of enemies 
 the game throws at you at times . Everyhing is always a notch and a half above most other shooters 
 when it comes to scale. This is one "supersize me" kind of game...
  
  Equally impresive is how Insomniac succeeds in never letting things get dull. The pace of the game 
 changes constantly. You'll face gigantic walking tanks in epic scenes of grand scale battle in 
 one segment and cautiously tiptoe through a forest facing cloaked Predator like foes in the next.
 
  
  One other memorable, instant classic, scene starts slow where you make your way through an earily 
 deserted suburb where everyone seemingly dissappeared but where mansize pods litter the streets 
 and houses..
  
  I won't spoil things here but it doesn't take a rocketscientist to figure out what happens next. 
 Let's just say things go real bad "left 4 Dead" style.. and the gameplay changes from cautious 
 to frantic. Brilliant stuff.
  
  Resistance 2 was created with great care and love and it shows. You can really tell the developers 
 worked very hard and very creatively to bring you the best possible game. It'shows in the level 
 design, the numerous different types of enemies and the variation in gameplay
  
  I'm so impressed with it, if it wasn't for a few minor gripes I have with it, I wouldn't hesitate 
 to rate it a 10.
  
  A few not-so-well things are worth mentioning though. One thing is how enemies will typically only 
 attack you.. This can be very annoying because it gets downright rediculous at times. Enemies will 
 actually run past, and completely ignore, friendly soldiers to take a swing at you. It's as if 
 each and every enemy holds a personal grudge.
  
  Another thing has to do with animation and physics. Most guns have next to no recoil and when you 
 press L1 to put it to your shoulder there's hardly any animation for that movement. It just switches 
 view. This may seem like 2 small things but they admittedly do make the gunhandling feel somewhat 
 weightless and simplified... it's hard to explain but it takes away some of that smooth realistic 
 feel that most shooters this generation have.
  
  Don't let thses small gripes scare you away from the game though. Believe-you-me, it makes up for 
 those things in other departments.
  
  There's one more thing I'd like to add, at the risk of infuriating every halo fanboy out there 
 I have to say this:
  
  Remember back in the day when you were anxiouly awaiting Halo 2 because it promised to take the 
 fight to Earth. Remember when you expected intense urban shootouts with alien forces set out to 
 destroy us all. Remember how it only had a few short segments of that. I do, because I was one 
 of those people.
  
  Well my friend, allow Resistance 2 to fix that for you... ;-)
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx9607xx
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  This game was insane. I must say i wasnt really expecting much from this game after playing the 
 first one. The frist one didnt really have a good story and it seemed a bit repeditive. I must 
 say resistence 2 is outstanding. The graphics are so perfect in my eyes. The animations is another 
 thing i was really impressed about. The enemys you encounter make the game intense. Just the regular 
 grunts you face are a pain but when you start fighting other enemys it changes the pace of the 
 game along with your stradegy. The enemy A. I is allot smarter now. They will charge you use cover 
 and just out smart you some times. The multiplayer is just plain fun. With 60 players running around 
 having a task on the battlefield it can get a little crazy. I do like how you can Choose what weapon 
 you start out with now. The classes is an awsome addition that i am very happy about it makes you 
 play as a team more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arbrooks28
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  I haven't been the game yet, but I am very close. So far what really stands out for me is not the 
 graphics, sound, story, or multiplayer... it's the difficulty. I haven't died this much in a video 
 game since q-bert! Yeah I'm old, I hit the big 30 last week.... anyway...
  
  The graphics. The graphics are good, but the textures are a little muddy. You're not really going 
 to notice though. I am not a programmer or designer, but if they increased the texture res, I think 
 it may hurt the game in framerate. Why? Cause the levels are massive in scope... the distance you 
 see in some of the levels...... wow.. the scale is what they were going for, and exceeded! 
  
  The sound. The sound is great in my 5.1 dolby, but it still isn't as good as Dead Space. I 
 think this is so because there are so many things happening at times, that you can get lost or 
 objects can be drowned. The voice acting or just playin audio track seems a bit subdued. A NPC 
 may be right next to you, but sounds like you are talking with them through a old walkie-talkie. 
 
  
  The fun factor/playability. This is another area where it keeps the game from perfection. I found 
 the difficulty level ramped up significantly over the last game. It's fun once you get a hold of 
 the learning curve, but you still die a lot. And I found that the everyone can take a bullet well 
 except you. You have to pump enemies so full of lead, that you may run out by the time you really 
 need it. Although all these are an deterrent from playing, I find myself going back over and over 
 again. 
  
  Overall, it's a good game.... just hoped for a little more. It's fun, but difficult... and for this 
 holiday season, you won't find much of a better FPS on PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerkle01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 8, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. The co op is alot of of fun. But if that is not the thing for you, there is 
 also a competative mode that has a few different types of multiplayer matches. The story mode is 
 also great.
  
  
  Pros: 
  Many difficulty levels make the game more fun to play, and difficulty level can be changed level 
 to level
  
  Robust always active game community
  
  Great guns and maps
  
  Cool custimation abilitys
  
  A lot of ranks to get through make this game more addicting
 
  
  Trophys make the game greater and more fun and they give you more insight
  
  Great replayablity from the trophies to the inteligence reports
  
  much more i dont have time 
 to list
  
  Cons:
  
  not enough guns
  
  guns cant be customized (not a big deal though)
  
  Co op gets annoying at times and so does 
 Competative
  
  The Verdict: An awesome game overall that should be played and not skipped
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aDhAmMe13
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  The Good:
  
  --Impressive visuals --Intense game-play --One of the best ever multi-players --Not a recycle in 
 the least --Intuitive menus and game-play
  
  The Bad:
  
  --A few technical glitches --Very poorly driven story
  
  "They're calling for us. Can you hear 
 them? It is beautiful!" That sentence has ignited a bit of stir amongst many gamers one of which 
 is myself. Resistance 2 undoubtedly evolved dramatically over Fall of Man in every aspect. But 
 it did have one major step-back that was rather disappointing.
  
  --STORY --
  
  This is the only corner where the game had a step-back. There is no more narrator and core of the 
 story doesn't drive the game at all. Even though the start isn't bad at all, it is disappointingly 
 weak.
  But, it isn't all bad. The ending is probably one of the most dramatic endings I have ever seen 
 and one that would prove as an excellent start to yet another sequel.
  The dialogue isn't bad either but yet again isn't that very motivating. Yet, during the game-play, 
 the radio would prove as a major helping hand and one that you cannot simply thrive without.
  
  --VISUALS --
  
  The visuals of Resistance 2 have been greatly polished and renovated to 
 an extent that you may not recognize the game any more. Everything now has a huge amount of detail 
 and textures to it.
  The gloomy and low-contrast feel that Fall of Man had is no longer there. You will also see a huge 
 variety of locales, all the way from the green and red beauty of nature to a sci-fi-ish setting. 
 Chicago, Iceland, and Mexico mark some of the many settings you will play in.
  As for animations, yet again, a major undeniable change. The animations in Fall of Man particularly 
 online were rather awkward and very jerky. No disappointment here in the least.
  In the online, the frame rate is very stable and smooth and doesn't cause any lags despite major 
 60-player battles with around 12 objectives that have been randomly handed to five-player squads. 
 Yet in the offline campaign, the frame rate has very few but annoying hiccups that would prove 
 as a major nuisance. But with nowadays' technology, this might be easily fixed with a patch.
  
  --GAME-PLAY --
  
  The game-play in Resistance 2 is one of the best gamers will ever see. 
 Online or offline, you will find yourself thoroughly enjoying the intense, bloody and gory experiences. 
 
  Offline you might be facing a 300-foot giant on your own, three to four 50-foot giants at the same 
 time, fleets of hundreds of human-sized chimera all at the same time or other major massive-scale 
 moments you will simply never forget. You might even have your own A. I. controlled friendly squad 
 that prove to be beyond helpful. They will get a lot of kills, assist you many times, and may even 
 throw in a couple of real-time hints based on your actions.
  As for online, it's simply what GameSpot would call "Sucks you in." The game-play is perfectly 
 stable and you will have a lot of objectives and let's not forget the hype about "Skirmish mode."
 
  Here the game was at best.
  
  ** -- EXTRA -- **
  
  I dropped half a point from the perfect score due to a poorly driven story. The other half falls 
 here. There are quite a few technical glitches that weren't polished and well enough prove how 
 Insomniac didn't properly test-drive their game. For starters, there are annoying and long frame-rate 
 hiccups. Additionally, due to the intense gore, when you blow up some creature, parts of its body 
 may stay floating in mid-air and never fall down. Moreover, there are a few geometrical issues.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------
  Bottom line: An intense game that should be played. A certain contender for game of year despite 
 some letdowns.
  
  FINAL SCORE: 9 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up the collector's edition of Resistance 2 and after playing through the game 
 I've decided that it improves on the original, yet it also has new flaws.
  
  First, the good: 
  
  The AI has been improved from the previous game and enemies (while not 
 extremely smart) seem to work together more efficiently to bring you down. There is still the occasional 
 enemy that seems to enjoy running into walls, but overall the AI is more aware and more deadly.
 
  
  The player models, enemy models, textures, and level designs are all improved. Enemies and friendly 
 AI comrades look more realistic and interact with the environment more naturally than the previous 
 release. The environments are well thought out and the level design really draws you in to the 
 task at hand.
  
  Multiplayer support for up to 60 players in matches ranging from team deathmatch to capture the 
 flag. It features an experience system that allows your player to "level up" and have access to 
 better equipment. Also, there is an online co-op that supports up to 8 players for an added challenge.
 
  
  Next, the BAD: 
  
  The overall quality of the game's textures and attention to detail is flawed by horribly fake and 
 cartoon-y blood and gore. The blood looks like someone drew a red splat in MS paint and pasted 
 it on a wall. The occasional metallic blood pool doesn't really help with the realism either.
 
  
  Many times ammunition is scarce which adds to the suspense but it ultimately frustrating as the 
 developers expect you to plow through hordes of flesh-eating aliens with 3 shotgun shells.
  
  The difficulty. I'm not saying hard games aren't fun, I'm just saying there is a difference 
 between a game being hard and a game being kiss-your-@55- goodbye impossible. Many areas in Resistance 
 2 are unforgivably difficult and the game seems to laugh as it watches your war-torn limp and burning 
 corpse slumps to the ground over and over again.
  
  Overall the experience is a pleasant one. If you can look past its flaws, Resistance 2 is very 
 much worth a purchase or in the very least a rental. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rsoxguy12
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  After all the hype, R2 is here and its great. I'll break down this review into several components. 
 
  
  Graphics - Nowadays people get very picky on graphics. If you are someone who must play a top notch 
 graphics game, don't get R2. It has very good graphics, but nothing revolutionary. The colors are 
 brighter and more vivid, no more of the washed up yellow-ey color from R1. Taking into consideration 
 the amount of action going on in the game, SOMETHING had to compensate for it. Don't get me wrong, 
 this game looks great, but its not anything new.
  
  Audio - Solid, not bad or great. In campaign, suspenseful music is used in the right situations 
 such as a dark room or such. In a big battle, you can hear screams of other army men, gunfire, 
 grunts of chimera dying, explosions. It's better than R1 though.
  
  Gameplay - Resistance is known for its run n gun type gameplay, and it works great in R2. Contrary 
 to R1, you can only carry to guns at a time, and there aren't any guns sitting on the map online 
 waiting to be taken. Some may like this, some may not. I honestly don't mind it because I would 
 probably use only 2 guns in my collection of guns in R1. Gunfire battles in R1 are great, its not 
 like other games where you shoot, charge, melee your opponent, and see who wins. Dying isn't as 
 slow as R1, but it isn't as fast as CoD4. Its just right in the middle and it works.
  
  Campaign - The campaign is broken up into a variety of missions, which is broken up into objectives. 
 However, there isn't much of a story, other than Hale's resistance to the chimeran virus. The campaign 
 is a huge step up from R1 though with a lot more action in it. New chimera as well don't hurt. 
 People have different opinions on the ending; personally I liked it.
  
  Multiplayer - Best aspect of Resistance. 8 player co-op is INTENSE! Teamwork is key and the spread 
 of the 3 classes should be wide. It isnt a walk in the park either. Medics, Spec Ops, and Soldiers 
 all need to work together to ensure a complete mission. Competitive multiplayer is great too. 30 
 vs 30 matches are craaazy. The maps are big enough too, its not all jumbled. Some people complain 
 that bigger isn't necessarily better in shooters, well then, you can create a 3 vs 3 match. Berserks 
 are a nice addition to R2. When you get a number of kills, you have your berserk and can active 
 it whenever. Each one in unique. They range from turning invisible, to equipping a rocket launcher, 
 to your player exploding when close to someone (no death will be penalized to you) . It releases 
 another dimension to multiplayer. 
  
  Replayability - This game makes you want to beat the campaign again. There are trophies to be collected 
 and intel to be found. In multiplayer, you can level up your character in competitive mode to unlock 
 more berserks and custom equipment. And in co-op, you can level up your class (medic, soldier, 
 spec ops) to make it stronger and more secondary weapons to equip. As well as berserks in co-op 
 mode.
  
  Overall, R2 is a great game. No complaints here! I will be playing this for a long time. 
  
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: interglatice
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  R2 is a great game with a ok story to follow R1. The story picks up right after the first putting 
 you right in the fast paced action of the game. Right after seeing the first boss it sets up the 
 last hope of humanity feeling pretty well. But really the game doesn't shed to much light on the 
 first game and ends up with more questions then answers at the end.
  The single player gameplay for R2 is good and the weapons provide some fun but the battles in between 
 the boss fights are repetitive. The boss battles provide the best part of the single player. From 
 a giant walking mech to a swarm of metal plated insects each boss is unique and gives a great sense 
 of scale or urgency. 
  
  
  The mutiplayer in R2 is also good and a good reason to play the game after the single player is 
 done. You can play in Competitive or Cooperative modes both of which are both good. Cooperative 
 is fun but the missions are basicly the same. Upgrading and unlocking weapons and armour adds some 
 diffrence but more then likely you will soon be moveing to Coompetative. 
  Competitive is fun but also like Coop it gets old prety fast. The weapons are mostly balanced and 
 the berserks are fun to use when you get them but even more amazing is the fact that 60 player 
 games run without any lag. But there a plenty of problems and lack of cover on maps, no stealth, 
 and 60 player games really just being bigger and more chaotic. 
  
  
  I would say that overall the game isn't really a groundbreaking FPS but the scale, boss battles, 
 and Weapons do make it unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trace88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 5:55 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a another PS3 exclusive that made a good competetor to xbox 360 's Gears of war 
 2.
  
  
  Presentation
  =====================================================
  The presentation of resistance 2 is AWSOME!!!!!!!!! they made a lot of improvements on the sorroundings 
 and graphics of the characters. They enchanced the gore on this game it is good see flying chucks 
 of chimera meat in the air is awsome but the water effect has some technical issue that they need 
 to fix
  
  Gameplay
  =======================================================
  The experience you get from this games is great because you can only wield to weapons. This system 
 will enchanced the players to choose thier weapons carefully.
  
  Story
  =======================================================
  Resistance 1 has left us with many question 
 that didn't answer on resistance 1 but in resistance 2 they answered it all.
  You play once again as nathan hale he is brought to america to fight the chimera that invaded now 
 america.
  
  Multiplayer
  ========================================================
  Good multiplayer competitive and co-op. You will experience in resistance 2's competitive multiplayer 
 different because resistance 2's Competitive mode is a 60 player competitive deathmatch or TDM 
 or ETC. unable to do that other games has but the co-op games are just playing AWSOME
  
  Overall
  ========================================================
  Resistance 2 is a great 
 game that need a little edge to get a 10/10 but this is a game that every PS3 owner needs to have 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  It's obvious the creators have tried to put alot more colour into the visuals. Sometimes two much, 
 it often feels like a Ratchet and Clank title. But the visuals are often great in most places such 
 as travelling through a lush green forest dodging invisible enemies.
  Another change to Fall Of Man is Hale. The developers realised he never really said a word in the 
 last game so they have tried to include Nathan in alot of the conversations going on throughout 
 the game. For example, its often Hale planning the routes and tactics of the mission ahead.
  The Chimera seem alot tougher in this sequal and there are more variations than last time.
  The 
 weapons feel more powerful against your enemies and the story seems so much more intense from watching 
 the Chimeran ships glide above you to coming face to face to giant hulking variations of the virus.
 
  The game is alot more nervracking than the last one. Making you run as fast as you can from swarms 
 and darting for cover. The radio broadcasts you find all over the game is a nice touch. To here 
 what is going on other than where you are.
  One thing I am not to happy with is the cutscenes. They have kind of made it into an animated cartoon 
 or something it just doesnt really fit right in my opinion... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spacemariens22
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 5, 2008 6:49 pm PT
Review:  r2 picks up right after the ending of r1 the chimera are still pushing throw europe and most of 
 the world hell bent on the total destruction of mankind u reprise your role as sergent nathan hale 
 humanity is on the back foot and its destruction seems inevitable to sum r2 up in one word it would 
 be disapointing! the game is your basic first person shooter with breif moments of greatness but 
 sadly these moments dont last long the game is very cliched and full of bugs! to the point where 
 on one level the game didnt even spawn the chimera which left myself and my squad mates running 
 around the map wondering what the hell was going on i hard to restart the level just to get it 
 working! also the freindly ai is very poor to the point where they just sit there let u do all 
 the work and barly pull the trigger the difficulty can be very annoying and the lack of direction 
 in some levels can be very frustrating not to mention the story line which at the best of times 
 is hard to follow and makes no sense and the lack of creative idea from the develpoers which lead 
 to them ripping of some classic action movies to get there inspirtation u all know what iam talking 
 about a certain forrest level with a certain invisible chiamera which stalks it victums and cuts 
 them in half with its blades! think hard about it! and the terrible voice acting where half the 
 time the words that appear in the subtitles dont even match the words they speak! but r2 does have 
 some strong points ie fighting the bosses which are just massive! fighting the grims which is awsome 
 and thrilling! the scale of the game is good with the scenery can take ur breath away and r2 strongest 
 points the ending! is a must see even if the rest of the story was annoying to get threw and the 
 multiplayer the offline co op campain is fun with freinds and the online is the saving grace for 
 this game with up 2 60 players! at least they got something right! all in all r2 is a very disapointing 
 game with a lot of glitches and stuff ups saved bye its multiplayer hopefully the 3rd installment 
 will be a lot! better 7 out of ten. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naydaslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 5, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Up until recently, my PS3 has not been a very exciting system. All I did was play RFOM online. 
 But in the past month, I bought LBP, MGS4, and this gorgeous game. First of all, the cover looks 
 pretty sweet. Open it up, pop the game in and youll be up an running in no time. You start off 
 hitting up a stalker with a Laark. A Laark is one of the most useful guns in Resistance 2, the 
 rocket launcher as you may know it. You go through the game picking up a variety of weapons, each 
 with a unique secondary fire. As you go along you fight big bosses and trust me, it is one heck 
 of a blast. Two words about the online: The Best. At least IMO it is. From co-op to competitive, 
 one of the best online games I have ever played. There are a few problems tough, and though I hate 
 to say it, the graphics are not spectacular. They kind of look like people from the sims in my 
 opinion, but every thing else looks great. I do not understand how it has a weak story, because 
 this game just rocks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkchakra93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2008 1:10 pm PT
Review:  Its been a month since Resistance 2 was released and people still wonder.
  Was it really worth the wait?
  There were lots of goods about the game but apparently there are 
 more of the bads.
  I'll start with the bads first.
  The story was too short, really boring and made people just want to finish the game .Most of all 
 it was confusing.
  No one really likes a confusing story and this is where people started to get annoyed at the game.
 
  
  Also, the disappointing part of the game was there was no narration
  The narrator was really a unique roll in the Resistance game and i was ashamed to see that insomniac 
 took it away.
  
  Now for the good.
  Lots of new guns have been added, my personal favorite: The Magnum which allows you to detonate the 
 bullet you've shot.
  Though alot of the Resistance FOM guns we're returned im glad insomniac altered their appearance/charateristics.
 
  Im also glad they returned the Bullseye which was the favorable gun of FOM.
  
  Boss fights will blow you away,
  Unlike FOM there wasn't alot of boss fights and that was one 
 of the bads of the first Resistance.
  But in Resistance 2 the bosses introduced personally amazed me. They were quite challenging but 
 a game should have a challenge in part of a story once in a while.
  
  Smarter NPCs
  Unlike most games allied NPCs are usually useless because they just stand in 1 position attempting 
 to kill an enemy but in Resistance 2 insomniac programmed the NPCs to actually make them look like 
 a player was controlling them as well and thats what made me happy about the game because you don't 
 want to go against hordes of Chimeras with useless NPCs that will just get you killed and outnumbered 
 in the mission especially if the enemies are much more challenging than FOM.
  
  AND finally, ONLINE play.
  The online play is the most amazing part of the game.
  I do not know 
 how insomniac hosts thousands of people to play with no lag but im happy they did.
  This is how insomniac get Gamespot's 9.0 and personally i think Resistance 2 deserved it.
  Alot 
 of online games will annoy you at times when you lag and theres nothing you can do about it but 
 Resistance 2 is the first online game i've played without lag :)
  
  In conclusion,
  For people who still haven't bought Resistance 2 i suggest you still get it. Because in the end 
 it will still be worth it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: IIJuggaNottII
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Resistance was new to me but not the STORY because I played Fall of Man at a friends house. I knew 
 the story because he ended it and I just watched all the vids. 
  
  How did I feel about Resistance 2? Disappointed. The things I liked about it. The weapons were 
 good, the gameplay of the single player campain was good, and It was a good length (just as soon 
 as you get tired of it, It ended) . Things that I didnt like about it. Nothing jumped out and grabbed 
 me as setting it apart from other FPS's of its kind. I thought that the Huge Boss Battles would 
 do something like that (what I saw from vids that got me excited) , but they only look big and dont 
 pose any challange at all IMO. The graphics were nice but again, nothing jumped out at me to make 
 me think that this was even an exclusive title. The story was okay at best, and the ending kinda 
 left me feeling empty. I didnt enjoy the multiplayer at all.... I wont comment past that because 
 I believe I spent a total of 20 mins in it. I just didnt like the type of play..... thats coming 
 from a guy who doesnt like Halo's game type either. 
  
  I dont think its a bad game at all. Just a poor exclusive IMO.... I got worked up for it to be let 
 down. I played a big part in that because I never cared for Halo type games. Also.... the gamers 
 who got into the beta obviously exagerated about how "good" the game was. Again... I just felt Disappointed. 
 I dont know what to do with it, i want to hold onto it, but I guess I'll trade it in while it still 
 has worth. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited to get Resistance 2 and I did get it the day after it came out, but it did not 
 go quite far enough to reach my expectations, although it did come close. The singleplayer was 
 all it was cracked up to be, and was a fun and awesome experience. Where I draw issue with this 
 game is with the multiplayer. My first and foremost problem with the multiplayer is the very weak 
 weapons and the dated matchfinding system, with the non-ranked games being the most fun BUT FOR 
 SOME REASON ONLY THE NON-FUN RANKED GAMES COUNT! This really drags down the multiplayer experience 
 but does not hinder the fun of the non-ranked matches. Like I said the weapons are weak for some 
 reason in competitive multiplayer and lack a lot of fun and innovation, with most people just reverting 
 to the carbine, and weapons like the bellock being almost unusable. A create-a-class system like 
 CoD's or at least preset classes like Battlefield's would have been a more up-to-date and fun replacement 
 for the dry pick a weapon setup. For some reason the multiplayer just seems to lack the vital ingredient 
 that made CoD4 and other games' multiplayer so addictive. The cooperative is fun and innovative 
 and was a really great surprise for me! I personally prefer the soldier class although special 
 ops is good too, and the medic is overall a mediocre choice but his gun looks awesome! Overall 
 pretty damn good but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bambambam21
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 3, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  First Off, whoever thinks that its a noob game, Go and sort your life out and use some correct 
 english for christ sake, Second off, For those claiming this game is copying off other franchises? 
 Wake the hell up! Everything is pretty much copyed up and switched around now, its what they bring 
 to the game that makes it special , Clearly people who aint satisfied with this game are spoilt 
 little brats who dont understand were lucky to have high-tech games in this day of age & will never 
 be satisfied with any games they cant complete.
  
  Resistance 2 is a fantastic game, The Large detailed world you play and fight in really bring the 
 game and action to life, AI works really well with the boss's making your fights tougher and making 
 you think more about what you need to do to overcome your enemy, 60 player online? No lag? Need 
 i say more... 8 Player Co-Up makes the online gaming with friends better than ever. Plenty of weapons 
 to play around with adds more fun to your nonstop surprises round each corner
  
  The Bottom Line is, Anyone who thinks this is a bad game, is obviously not thinking clearly, even 
 if you hated everything about it, Its not a bad game, May not be your thing, But its a fantastic 
 game which has left me smiling knowing i spent my cash on it and will keep me smiling for god knows 
 how long. Its extended my interest if there is going to be a number 3. I Actually was dissapointed 
 in myself when i was only considering toRent Before Buying This Game ", Glad my i changed my 
 mind and brought it ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikeshinymetal
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 2, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong, Resistance 2 is a fun game. For the fans maybe. R2 is decent game, but it struggles 
 to surpass that barrier. It actually gave me this cloudy feel that makes the mediocrity stand out. 
 The main problem with Resistance 2 is that most of it's content has been ripped off other games. 
 Half their guns have been made before in other games, and put to better use. The Marksmen was a 
 gun with so much hype surrounding it. Guess what? It's the damn Battle Rifle from Halo. The games 
 story is completely unoriginal too. Humans fighting aliens as they invade Earth. Wow. That idea 
 populates the rest of the mediocrity in the dank swamp known as the gaming industry. I can't believe 
 how people praise the story for being original and immersive. I can't even remember the main guys 
 name! Nuts to immersive! I know he's infected with some alien crap, but isn't every other main 
 character diagnosed with some crappy disease that in the end makes him stronger as he gets some 
 super powers from them, or causes them to commence a "dramatic" race against time to stop him from 
 being corrupted? The only original... thing in the game is, get this, a type of grenade. A game 
 where people believe it could spark a revolution (according to friend) , and the only original element 
 Insomniac can think of is a grenade. Bravo Insomniac. You haven't made to my hit list yet, but 
 you've seriously lost all of my respect I had reserved for you. Multiplayer is alright, but due 
 to the fact Insomniac allowed people to speak to each other, we need to listen to 12 years old 
 have fits due to their crappiness. or listen to people with too much time on their hands talk about 
 how they have diarrhea (no joke I actually had to listen someone talk about their bowel problems) . 
 This is a universal problem though, so you can't bash a game for this flaw. Long story short, an 
 unoriginal game that has some how managed to avoid copyright laws for an unoriginal console for 
 an unoriginal buyer who feel that they have enough vacant space in their brain for another unoriginal 
 story to make your unoriginal lives seem a little bit... unoriginal. If you enjoy eating sandwiches 
 with nothing inside its two slices of bread, or Resistance 1, then this game is for you Mr. McBland. 
 The Splitters a decent gun though 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Draknaar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:24 am PT
Review:  ... this game, IS AMAZING! I fell in love, I really did. The graphics are stunning, apart from a 
 few textures, but how often do you get up close and personal with weeds to actually care? It totally 
 makes up for it though, with the monsterous scale of the game! Huge, flailing Kraken to enormous, 
 building smashing Leviathans, this game seems to have no limit to it's vastness!
  
  The storyline is gripping, it still gives you the vagueness of the first game leaving you to guess 
 alot, but by god is it fun to play though! Even in the prologue you get to see how serious they 
 are at making this one of the biggest games of the console. 
  
  However they didn't bring back the multi-gun rack inventory from FOM, instead then went for a more 
 Call Of Duty approach by giving you a choice of only two weapons to carry. But those weapons are 
 some of the most inventive yet in any first person shooter! Exploding bullets to rip the enemy 
 apart from the inside out, electronic spheres that shock them to death, and the good old revival 
 of the Auger and the Bullseye make it a very enjoyable game.
  
  Not to mention the online co-operative and competative! The one drawback in competative is the 
 extremely bright red and blue-ness of everything. It's really puts you off, especially when you 
 see huge red and blue bubbles running around everywhere, it really takes away from the game. But 
 other than that, all the weapon and appearance customizations are amazing, they've brought out 
 a new system, so experience is based on damage dealt, not who gets the kills - thank god as there 
 are a lot of kill stealers out there!
  
  Overall I give this an amazing rating, a must have. So if you have a PS3, go buy it, NOW! And I 
 may see you on the battlefield! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegizisback
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  I havent finished the single player yet (bout half way thorugh) and have only played about 6 hours 
 online, but its such a good game, boss battles will leave you with your mouth wide open (they are 
 stupidly big!) .
  when i saw the review had the same bad story icon as farcry 2 i was expecting there to be nearly 
 no story at all, thankfully this isnt the case and the story nicely moves on from the first game.
 
  graphics are also splendid with no slowdown.
  and the mutliplayer... i think its going to be as big as COD4, its addictive and even when you have 
 60 players there is still no lag-and on top of the strong competitive multiplayer you also have 
 co-op mode which pits you with up to 7 other players to complete missions.
  games with as much as hype as this usually let you down, thankfully this title isnt one of them.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentsniper359
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 6:00 pm PT
Review:  wow what a game. everything is perfect. the up to 60 player multi is balanced perfectly. the weapons 
 have great functions and are very varied and powerful. there are so many new enemies and the old 
 ones from r1. the co-op is the best on any game yet cmon 8 players with ots own story. and the single 
 player campaighn is outstanding with a great end.
  
  resistance 2 is all its cracked up to be the only thing it lacks is vehicle missions. the graphics 
 are superb as well and this game is a definit contender for game of the year its one of the best 
 games ive played an i am not being biased or anything
  
  buy this game if you have a ps3 simple as that if you dont then you will ne miising out on alot 
 of fun the characters in this game have emotions and feelings. also about the end its a real cliffhanger 
 and reakky sets the scene for r3, there are so many words i could use to describe this game but 
 scale would be one of the best ones like i said before 8 player co-op 60 player multiplayer and 
 huge enormous epic bosses such as the leviathan which is 300 feet and the kraken and the list goes 
 on.
  
  the settings are also great you go to chicago iowa iceland california and you board a chimeran 
 space ship and one of their towers its an epic epic ps3 exclusive and one to be really proud of 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrme03
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  Well if your looking for a good game. Or looking for something to do. THIS GAME IS IT! great graphics. 
 Action. Everything a lot of gamers want. Although it is kind of short. You'll find yourself wanting 
 to play again and again. Also the online mode is fun. You get to create a character. And in co 
 op you get to be a. Soldier, medic, or spec ops. All 3 are amazing. I simply cant stop play this 
 game. I give it a 5 out of 5. So buy it rent it. Surely get this game it is a sure treat. :) . 
 
  Also the game is well crafted. Made by the creators or ratchet and clank, The game has superb weapons 
 and creatures. And tough creature at that. I would recommend easy mode first for anyone who really 
 hasn't played to many shooters. Or isn't the best. And NO it is not another halo. It is its own 
 game. nothing like it has ever been created. It is also way better than the first. Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnomepickle
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:12 pm PT
Review:  I recently picked up the collector's edition of Resistance 2 and after playing through the game 
 I've decided that it improves on the original, yet it also has new flaws.
  
  First, the good: 
  
  The AI has been improved from the previous game and enemies (while not 
 extremely smart) seem to work together more efficiently to bring you down. There is still the occasional 
 enemy that seems to enjoy running into walls, but overall the AI is more aware and more deadly.
 
  
  The player models, enemy models, textures, and level designs are all improved. Enemies and friendly 
 AI comrades look more realistic and interact with the environment more naturally than the previous 
 release. The environments are well thought out and the level design really draws you in to the 
 task at hand.
  
  Multiplayer support for up to 60 players in matches ranging from team deathmatch to capture the 
 flag. It features an experience system that allows your player to "level up" and have access to 
 better equipment. Also, there is an online co-op that supports up to 8 players for an added challenge.
 
  
  Next, the BAD: 
  
  The overall quality of the game's textures and attention to detail is flawed by horribly fake and 
 cartoon-y blood and gore. The blood looks like someone drew a red splat in MS paint and pasted 
 it on a wall. The occasional metallic blood pool doesn't really help with the realism either.
 
  
  Many times ammunition is scarce which adds to the suspense but it ultimately frustrating as the 
 developers expect you to plow through hordes of flesh-eating aliens with 3 shotgun shells.
  
  The difficulty. I'm not saying hard games aren't fun, I'm just saying there is a difference 
 between a game being hard and a game being kiss-your-@55- goodbye impossible. Many areas in Resistance 
 2 are unforgivably difficult and the game seems to laugh as it watches your war-torn limp and burning 
 corpse slumps to the ground over and over again.
  
  Overall the experience is a pleasant one. If you can look past its flaws, Resistance 2 is very 
 much worth a purchase or in the very least a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michelle341
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 4:51 am PT
Review:  if you like first person shooters and own a ps3... then you really owe it to yourself to play this 
 game!!
  in comparison to the first game: the graphics are much improved, (and in my opinion the controlls 
 are better as well... but thats a matter of opinion..)
  the chimera are back, and are much more enjoyable to battle thanks to huge (and I really mean H-U-G-E) 
 bosses, more weapons, and new chimera enemies. I dissagree with gamespot's opinion about the story, 
 in my opinion the story was actualy great and intresting, and u get attached to the characters. 
 the sound affects are great as well... the voice acting is also very good, the problem is that I 
 have noticed that what the characters are saying doesnt allways match there lip movement.. though 
 the voice actors are really convincing and really help u sink in to the story.
  the defficulty is just right for me (I'm currently playing it on "normal" defficulty) and it's 
 not too easy yet not too challanging. the story mode is kinda short (like 6 hours long) ... but it's 
 really action packed and fun and u might even replay it sevrel times for trophies.
  the online is great as well-60 players and no lag=incredible!!!
  (I have heard rumors that they 
 have problems with the ranked servers... well, personaly I think the servers are great, and so far 
 I havent found a single problem!!) this is my favorite first person shooter!!!
  I highly recommend you to get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:38 pm PT
Review:  I hesitated on playin' this, because I feared this game would suck me in, & it has!! More games 
 are workin' towards the fluid cinematic-to-active dynamic of Heavenly Sword, & some games have 
 the stories (such as this) to pull it off. The controls are not too over the top, makin' it fps 
 friendly. 1 major naggin' point that was not mentioned in the GS review, is the quirky camera work. 
 You, eventually, learn to adjust to the quirks, but it's extremely frustratin' in the beginnin'; 
 especially, when you can't get a visual on the Chimera that's poppin' you, & the action's movin' 
 lightnin' fast. But, it's nowhere near bad enough to put down, despite how many times I died gettin' 
 away from the invincible droids! LOL The scenes are rich, colorful, & loaded with detail. The dark, 
 eerie feel to the atmosphere has you wanna get thru there while bustin' your weapons, but wantin' 
 to admire the scenery. I took a break to stroke this. Now, I'm back at it! LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigkegofhealth
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 29, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 SO FAR has been quite good. I'm about halfway through the campaign on hard and I've 
 been playing a fair bit of online competitive.
  
  First negatives,
  No physics improvements have been made whatsoever over the previous game. In this day and age I 
 don't expect to get shot in the back whilst trying to jump over a rock the size of a small dog. 
 Huge environments are all well and good, but more interactive environmnents are better.
  
  Stupid one-hit-death water creatures. A silly feature, totaly detracting from the pace of the game. 
 Nothing takes you out of the game like everything coming to a dull halt just because you stepped 
 in the water.
  
  VERY contrived feel to boss battles and set pieces. Everything feels a bit cobbled together. It 
 feels like the single player is taking a hige backseat to multiplayer here. Too linear
  
  TERRIBLE multiplayer level features. I have lost count of the number of times I have spawned in 
 front of an enemy player firing. Oh great, I'm back for 5 seconds. Now I'm waiting to spawn again. 
 Plus some of the weapons are so weak you have to keep your crosshair over the enemy for 3 seconds 
 to kill them. Even them, sometimes they die two seconds AFTER you stop firing?!
  
  So those are the negatives. On the plus side, the frame rate is great once again. The game is totaly 
 stable. Multiplayer is fast and frantic (maybe slightly too so) . Graphics are awe inspiring although 
 not quite as good as dead space.
  
  The difficulty is about right although I am making speedy progress on HARD. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splodge200
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  from my opening tittle u must of realised 1 thing. this games is quite the awesome. yes... yes 
 it is.
  
  this does to first person shooters what god of war did to third person hitting thingys.... 
  
 
  i jumped into the single player campaign and slapped it on normal, sure the normal difficulty is 
 a lil hard but thats what u expect! the last resistance was no walk in the park but dispite the 
 difficulty u keep coming back! and why is that? the awesome GOD OF war moments! let me explain.
 
  
  i was walking around minding my own buissness shooting alien SCUM as u do when suddenly out of 
 nowhere A GIANT F*IN FISH THING COMES OUT! STARTS SLAPPING ME AROUND WITH ITS TENTICALS AND OH 
 CRAP! WHAT DO I DO? USE UR GIANT AWESOME PLASMA GUN! BAH! IT NEEDS TO CHARGE! ITS TRYING TO EAT 
 ME! (MORE SHOOTING AND SWEARING) ... woah... awesome :D and this is why the game rocks! sure the 
 textures arnt the greatest but this can be forgiven to the huge dynamic boss fights u encounter. 
 i havnt played a first person shooter with this type of epic feel in a looooooooooooong time! and 
 the relation to god of war? thats was pretty fricken epic! other then that no relation :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3-4-lyf
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 29, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  The game can get very difficult in the single player storyline, but its nothing to trash this amazing 
 game about. The story's great, the game play is good, several new weapons. The best thing about 
 this game is the felling you get when you see the amazing environment and the huge scale of it, 
 with huge alien ships over you with many little ones flying past, at the same time a whole city 
 on fire and at the same time your walking under a city sized robot its simply amazing, kinda the 
 same realism feeling I get when playing half life 2.
  
  The co-op is great heaps of hours of playtime and on top of that the massive 60 player online, 
 although I'll be honest and say that the weapons aren't balanced and it can get on your nerves, 
 but it's noting to get fuzzy about, basically just choose a different weapon.
  
  So although this game has its minor issues, they don't affect this game in anyway and it still 
 scores a 10 from me, and I think that its a must have for a PS3 owner, even buying a ps3 for this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azkotek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are pretty good although not the best on PS3. Sound is quite the same from the first game. 
 Gameplay is quite similar to any FPS I've played so far. 
  
  There's not much variety in the gameplay though: you run, stop, take down few baddies, checkpoint, 
 you run, replenish ammo, mini-boss, get killed, etc. It's not revolutionary but at least it's much 
 better than Haze... oups... sorry.
  
  My biggest problem with Resistance 2 is the level of difficulty. I've decided to play the game 
 on Normal difficulty at first because I like a good challenge. But I was a bit surprised to see 
 how easy it was to get killed even by avoiding the mindless run-and-gun tactic. Difficulty comes 
 from ennemies coming at you in waves without you being able to find proper cover. Same thing when 
 you confront a mini-boss: they've got big guns, take 3 to 4 clips emptied on them to take 'em down 
 and yet they shoot you 3-4 times and you're a goner. Now, a good challenge does not mean I have 
 to get frustrated reloading the same checkpoint 5-6 times in a row, in my opinion. Anyway, just 
 don't expect Normal difficulty to be an easy ride... sounds more like Hard to me... even though 
 I'm used to playing FPS games.
  
  Anyway. Not bad at all and I think it's worth the money. I just wish the gameplay was a bit more 
 fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 2, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  I couldn't finish the first Resistance. The controls, the graphics, the storyline and the overall 
 quality of the game was pretty mediocre for a console launch title. It looked more like a pre-last-gen 
 PC game. Hell, HalfLife 2 still looks better than most of the games!
  
  So naturally, when Resistance 2 came out, I was a bit cautious. The trailers seemed good enough, 
 however the thing that bothered me in the first installment stood out: completely static NPCs, 
 which won't move until you either come close to them, or shoot them.
  
  Well, they've fixed most of the issues in the second game, however there still are a plenty. The 
 graphics are significantly improved and finally looks like something you can call "current-gen". 
 In one level you go through a forst, and it does look very good! So this is another example that 
 shows that PS3 really CAN produce some decent graphics (don't know how much sweat and blood it 
 costs to developers, though - the PS3 is known as one of the most difficult to develop for consoles) .
 
  
  The NPCs look more alive, however AI still remains as stupid as in the first game.
  
  There still is no storyline to speak of and the whole game is, pretty much, run and gun everything 
 that moves (and in some cases - anything that doesn't) .
  
  The gameplay is rather difficult, mostly because of two things: 1) There barely any ammo around, 
 so you have to scavenge it from the fallen NPCs, and 2) If you die - after reload all fallen NPCs 
 are gone, so if you've had little ammo before the checkpoint - that's all you'll have after the 
 reload. So the checkpoint system in Resistance 2 is broken, for all intents and purposes. If you 
 want to play on anything above 'casual" - you have to use every single bit of ammo and weaponry 
 you can find, and still there will be times when you have to run around a level like crazy, trying 
 to find something - anything - to deal with a rather large Boss.
  
  All in all, I think, Resistance 2 is a pretty quality game (broken checkpoint system notwithstanding) . 
 Can't say, though, that it's exclusivity to the PS3 platform is a huge loss for the 360 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheAcejoel99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:57 pm PT
Review:  I will say this right off the bat, resistance 2 is everything you could ask for and more, well 
 almost everything. It has the sound, gameplay, atmosphere and feel of a 10/10 game, but there are 
 a few issues that I just can't let slip by. I will start with the good and end with the bad. Sound 
 is very good, from the human weapons with there standard bang bang and standard explosions as well 
 as the alien weapons that have that futuristic feel and sound that is pulled off very cleanly and 
 very well produced to the atmospheric and subtle music to the rambunctious and ramping up music 
 that gets you in the mood to kill stuff. The gameplay/controls are top notch and I couldn't think 
 of a better control scheme, it is all tight and very responsive to say the least. Atmosphere is 
 retained from the last game and is in full effect. The scale of the game has been ramped up considerabley, 
 from bigger enemies (were talking massive) to just bigger crowds of small enemies to huge set pieces 
 that will amazing you. The online is also improved by incredible lengths from the last installment, 
 ramping from 40 to 60 players online and from 2 player co-op to 8, and amazingly runs PERFECTLY 
 and is one of the best online experiences around. If you haven't noticed, I haven't mentioned visuals 
 yet, because this stands in the middle of good and bad. At times it will blow your mind (in a good 
 way) and at other times you will be almost confused by bad and noticably low quality textures and 
 stupid looking organs that come out of enemies when they blow up. It will look cool WHEN they blow 
 up, but if you look closely they are little more than red blobs. Some evnironmets look pretty rough, 
 while others will impress. Overall the visuals have been improved over resistance 1 and I can't 
 complain much for the scale of some of the environments and battles are rediculous and it never 
 slips up in frame-rate.
  There isn't much "bad" about resistance, but I found enough to hold this game back from being "perfect" 
 so to speak. ONE, visuals can be ruff around the edges at times. TWO, some fights will drag on 
 for a little too long without save points. THREE, a new enemy "The swarm" is kinda neat, but is 
 pretty annoying overall and upclose looks out-right N-64 quality, yes Nintendo 64. FOUR, story 
 is actualy told in a worse fashion this time around, for the lady narrator is gone from the first 
 game and you will be confused as to what your doing or why your doing it for most of the game.
 
  FIVE, the campaign is considerably shorter than resistance 1. Resistance 1 ran about 14-16 hours 
 long and resistance 2 is about 8-10 hours long. Which is disappointing. But don't let this deture 
 you for overall the campaign is of a higher quality in resistance 2 but is still a little disappointing 
 in length.
  SIX, the final boss is pretty lame and easy. But what happens after you kill him/her/it is pretty 
 sweet. These may sound like alot of bad things, but are actualy small gripes and are easily cast 
 aside for resistance 2 is just brimming with fun and delightment. A manditory purchase for PS3 
 owners. SMILE!!!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Everything's great about Resistance 2 accept for the one thing. And this "thing", is what got it 
 a 9.0 and not a 9.3+ in my opinion. THERE'S NO DAMN SPLIT SCREEN CO-OP ON THE MAIN STORY!!!!! Are 
 you &$^* kidding me. Isn't obvious that Resistance fall of man was so great because of the co-op 
 campaign? YES. They do have a side story co-op online witch is cool but COME ON!!! It's common 
 sense. Come on game developers, get it together!! That's why Halo's so great because theirs nothing 
 really missing when it comes to playing with your friends. Anyway, games awesome, love the graphics. 
 Sounds great, looks great, it's a game that you might just want to rent over the weekend. Oh, one 
 more thing, the online is freaking awesome. You get to pick between medic, soldier or spec ops, 
 and each of them has a special "ability" I guess you could say. Overall good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BPoole96
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 12:10 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 provides many things that make it a good candidate for shooter of the year. This game 
 offers a campaign mode, an 8 player co-op, and a strong competitive mode. The campaign mode has 
 many fun parts to it and provides just enough challenge to not have to throwing your controllers 
 across the room, even on the Superhuman difficulty. The story on the campaign is not the strongest 
 I have ever seen but the gameplay definitely makes up for that. 
  
  A big difference between Resistance 2 and RFoM is the fact that you can only hold 2 weapons at 
 a time in Resistance 2. Many fans of the series were not pleased with this but personally I like 
 it better than holding 12+ weapons at a time. Campaign mode itself will keep many players occupied 
 if they are going for the trophies in it. Luckily, campaign is only 1/3 of this game. 
  
  My favorite mode on this game is the 8-player co-op. Each person can pick from one of three classes. 
 The three classes include soldier, medic, and spec ops. Each class has its own unique job to do 
 in order for the team to advance. The soldier provides cover for the squad by putting up an invincible 
 sheild. The medics give health to everyone and can revive people quicker while the spec ops supply 
 the squad with ammo. I liked this element of the game because it made the squad use teamwork, which 
 is hard to come by in games these days. 
  
  Co-op can place you against dozens enemies at a time that make it challenging. Each class gets 
 their own "berserks" as well. A berserk is basically a special ability that is gained by doing 
 your job. For instance, medics charge their berserks by healing teammates. Some beserks are used 
 for a defensive strategy such as The Ring of Life, which provides allies with health as long as 
 they are in the ring. Others are more offensive such as Snake Eyes, which gives the player a pulse 
 cannon that deals massive amounts of damage to enemies. The only problem I found on co-op was players 
 not doing what they were supposed to do and causing a misson failure. 
  
  Now for competitive mode. Players can choose to do smaller matches of 5-10 people on a team or 
 larger match with up to 30 people on each team. The modes are pretty standard however. There is 
 Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Core Control (which is essentially CTF) , and Skirmish (which each 
 teams fights over completing certain objectives. One thing I do like alot more about Resistance 
 2 is that the Chimera and Humans are equally matched. I always thought the Chimera in RFoM had 
 an advantage but this does not happen in Resistance 2. Each race has their own berserks to choose 
 from, while some are available for both. Some berserks include, reduced damage from enemies, invisibility, 
 pulse cannons, laarks, enhanced radar for the whole team, and hybrid vision. Competitive mode is 
 very fun and just as much addicting.
  
  One thing that I was not happy with was the aiming in this game. The L1 button is used to hold 
 down the sights for the guns, but the crosshairs do not get any smaller, rendering aiming obsolete. 
 
  
  There are some new weapons in Resistance 2 as well as some major improvements on the old ones. 
 The Dragon, Reapers, and Arc Charger are not featured on R2. New weapons include the Magnum, which 
 shoots flares that explode on command, the Marksman, a Chimeran sniper rifle that fires a 3-round 
 burst, Pulse Cannon, which shoots a devastating laser that kills anything it touches, the Wraith, 
 a chaingun that has a shield to protect the user, and the Splicer, which shoots razor blades at 
 enemies or can be used as a buzzsaw to slaughter enemies. One gun that got a major improvement 
 was the Auger. The tiny shields that you may remember from RFoM are now actually useful and provide 
 cover. It also allows you to see enemies through walls regardless of being a Chimera or Human. 
 The LAARK is now harder to access so players can no longer spam rockets and pick up ammo to continue 
 their assualt of annoyingness. 
  
  Resistance 2 is a very satisfying game and should not be missed by anyone. If you have a Playstation 
 3, there is no reason this game should not be in your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:35 am PT
Review:  It has been over 2 years since the first Resistance, and now Sony Computer Entertainment releases 
 its sequel to the new and popular franchise they have created. 
  
  The first Resistance was about a war that occurred in the time of World War 2 except World War 
 2 never happened. An alien fleet called the Chimera landed in Europe and attacked England. The 
 US sent Nathan Hale (You) to help the British soldiers drive the Chimera out. Fortunately, they 
 had destroyed the Chimeran virus which was spreading all over Europe. Now after 2 years Hale returned 
 to USA and then the Chimera launched a massive attack on USA. Now Nathan Hale was prepared to save 
 the USA!
  
  You will see improved things in every field over the first Resistance here, like improved graphics 
 and gameplay. The single player campaign engages you as Hale trying to fight the virus, the setting 
 is in the US. I can't tell you about the online because I don't have online, sorry. 
  
  The huge battles that erupt across the various levels will give you an adrenaline rush. While the 
 scale of the battles in the first game was large, the numbers present on screen at one point in 
 time is simply incredible. You'll find yourself and a dozen or more soldiers squaring off against 
 twenty or more drones, a number of Chimera, and a couple of turrets, all firing bullets at you! 
 
  The chart below will show the ratings of the main aspects of the game:
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  Overall look: 9.5
  Atmosphere: 9.0
  Audio: 9.0
  Gameplay: 9.5
  Replay 
 value: 9.0
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: andtillo3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 5:40 am PT
Review:  this game is pretty neat it really changed quite a bit fromt he first this game depending on what 
 level you play on weather its casual, normal or difficult its an all around fun enjoyable game 
 and its just right! The bosses are not that interesting but after defeating one of them you feel 
 a sense of pride! i beat the game just this morning and i got it yesterday so its not that long 
 of a game but mind you i played it from like 1:00 pm - 10:00 pm and this morning for 20 min lol 
 Online even though i havent played it that much its just awesome when you are in that 60 people 
 battle just unbelievable! the features this game offers is incredible honestly i think its the 
 best FPS out there for PS3 and maybe out this year! This game kinda reminded me of HALO 3 for some 
 reason the way the spaceships are and stuff it gives it the halo feel but none the less it beats 
 HALO. I give it a 9.5 just cause the bosses werent interesting and sometimes the missions i found 
 difficult and had to do them like 5 times. the swarm boss is what pissed me off but other than 
 that sweet game!
  
  buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ares360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Resistance2 Flaws-Dissappointing that there are only a handful of weapons. Another sad thing about 
 the weapons is that you can only carry 2 thats great for MP but takes the fun out of the tactic 
 combat such as the first one did. Graphics can be iffy but are a major improvement and are better 
 than most games. A thing that will piss you off is how they tell their story. They have such wonderful 
 storyline but you only see 60% of the story if you don't find and read all the intel. You find 
 out half way through how the US was able to stop spire attacks but not in depth unless you read 
 the intels. 
  
  Pros of Resistance 2
  Single Player
  Ending is very serious and isn't like Hollywood all kittens and rainbows ending. You'll see a lot 
 of important characters get killed from the chimera. Graphics are improved and the controls are 
 very nice and style to the PS3 controller. Bigger battles it goes like this in all different battles.. 
 you vs chimera, you & your squad vs chimera, and the best you and a whole lot of soldiers vs waves 
 of chimera=BIG BATTLE which you'll love. You will again be a killing machine. Trophies which are 
 for all game types SP, COOP, MP
  Coop
  Very addictive but does lack content depth of story but is high for replayability and includes 
 trophies. The 3 class system is amazing you'll have to unlock weapons and beserk powers (like perks 
 from COD4 just a lot more useful) by leveling up. You also get money called gray tech, with this 
 you can purchase upgrades and mods. You'll still unlock apperances and all of this you can do for 
 3 class types and they go up to level 30.
  Multiplayer
  My favorite this holiday season in multiplayer above COD4 and Gears 2. The online goes up to 60 
 and your put in a 5 man squad pitted against a rival squad of 5. At times the whole 30vs30 battles 
 will happen and its not chaotic its amazing. Health bar is great it recharges and isn't 4 little 
 bars like the first. Huge maps that are so big there are some empty zones but in a good way. Ranked 
 games though are hard to find and it would be nice to level up and get some new outfits. When you 
 level up you'll get outfits, and perks. The play styles are TDM, DM, Core Control, and Skirmish which 
 is objective based game that can go on forever which is great because you get more kills and level 
 up faster.
  Total
  Graphics-9/10
  Story-9/10
  Gameplay-10/10
  Grand Total=28/30 A+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Knightangel121
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok, resistance 2, is in one, amazing!, the first thing fans will find is that everything is differnt, 
 now thats not a bad thing, everything has been improved to the MAX, the game realy is great and 
 feels fresh but still has the feel that the first resistance and adds something new without overpowering 
 it. from the minute you get into your first battle you'll feel and love the change. the graphpics 
 are top notch and the art work and backrounds look so amazing, ok one or two look a littel fake 
 but they still look great, the anamation is also top notch and facial features and movements are 
 also great. it is hard to belevie that the max res, is only 720p because the game looks far beoned 
 that. the sound is also great having great sound effects and pretty good voice acting. the the 
 story is were the game falls, yes i mean falls, the story is average at best. the gameplay is were 
 the game shines, every weapon is very usefull and feel fresh, and even the ones from the first 
 game are back and improved, this is a game that has improved every aspect and feels great and fun. 
 oveal a great game that dosent disapoint. graphpics 5/5, sound/audio 4/5, story 3/5, gameplay 5/5. 
 oveal 4.5/5 or 9.5/10. if you have any question whant awnsered personaly my ps3 gamer tag is Knightangel 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Volsung555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:05 pm PT
Review:  campaign- the campaign is relatively back and forth. the first half or so does absolutely nothing 
 with the characters or show u any kind of story. so besides the cracken the first half is all grinding. 
 the game starts to really develop as it picks up though. you start to really feel like the whole 
 world is being affected. the game picks up just in time to stop though. the last hour and a half 
 becomes really dissapointing and the ending is just wtf that last boss was a joke.
  
  co-op online- one of the funnest creations of any game i have ever played. it is extremely intense 
 and you will need every one of your 8 people to survive. i cannot explain to you just how many 
 enemies you may see at once. bullets everywhere, and besides the medic class (kinda boring) it is 
 an absolute blast.
  
  compettitive online- again this is an absolute amazing part of the game as well. skirmish is very 
 fun and gets you some strategy to what seems to be an intense shooting game. it takes away the 
 "if it breathes kill it" attitude. but then again thats wat 60 player team deathmatch is for. this 
 is intense action that will have you moving and shooting almost the whole time. the maps are perfect 
 sized and make it feel like there are more like 40 ppl on the map but in fact there is 60.
  
  flaws- the game doesn't really have a co-op offline which to me isnt a big deal. it would have 
 been hard for them to redo the campaign with co-op because it would just take away that "resist" 
 effect that hale has. the enemies in the campaign are repettive at sometimes and some of them are 
 very annoying. they need more maps online and the ranked matches for compettitive are terribly 
 boring.
  
  overall this game is a must have for any hardcore fps fan. from the pee in your pants boss battles, 
 to the most intense online game you will ever play, this game is truly great. although this will 
 most likely not win game of the year, (because reviewers dont play it enough) , it probably should 
 at least be nominated. by far it is a way better game than gears of war 2 and gta4 but it wont 
 be recognized as so. till killzone 2 comes out in february, this is the game to be playing for 
 all ps3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I will let you know this is a great game. It is a must play if you liked the first game. It 
 expands on the first game in every way to deliver a masterpiece. If you haven't played the first 
 game, go buy it cause it is great and you kinda need to play it to understand Resistance2.
  
  The bad news first: I was really disappointed with the graphics. Everything looks ok, but I 
 know both Insomniac and the PS3 are capable of more. Everything looks dated, not much better than 
 the first game. However, the amount of enemies thrown at you at a given point justifies the simple 
 visuals. Resistance2 doesn't look bad, just simple.
  
  Now, the good news: The game is ridiculously fun. The solo campaign is a little bit shorter than 
 Resistance: Fall of Man (under 10 hours) but it is VERY intense. There aren't many points where 
 the game slows down. Massive amounts of enemies are thrown at you all the time and the A. I. is 
 superb. I won't lie, the game is hard. I play lots of FPS's and I'm pretty good at them and I thought 
 the solo campaign was hard, but it also gives you a sense of accomplishment once you finish it. 
 The story is great, you need to play the first game to understand it. The ending is not really 
 a cliffhanger, but there are many different ways to interpret it and will make you want a Resistance3.
 
  
  The online co-op campaign is also a blast. Eight people working together is really fun. There are 
 three classes: a tank, a damage dealer, and a medic. Each person has to do their job to succeed 
 because the co-op is no easier than the solo campaign, in fact the difficulty scales with how many 
 people are playing. It's also worth noting that it is a completely different campaign from the 
 solo campaign, which kinda gives you the feeling of a 2 fer 1 deal. It does feel a bit disconnected 
 and arcadish because you have to repeat the same level a few times to complete different objectives 
 (its random) before you can proceed to the next level, but it is still fun.
  
  If you played competitive online Resistance: Fall of Man, you know what to expect, but with more 
 people this time around.
  
  To conclude, Resistance2 is a fun game and that is what playing games is about. GO PLAY (Reisitance2) !! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air4rce1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 1:31 pm PT
Review:  What is there to say, let me summarize:
  
  Graphics - 10
  Game Play - 10
  Game Modes - 10
  Offline campaign - 10
  Online Play - 10
  Network Stability - 10
  
  Resistance 
 2 is one of those games that delivers in scope and in story, which is generally worth the price 
 by itself. Then you throw in the extremely engaging online and offline cooperative game play which 
 is amazing. Bottom line there are no flaws in this game and it is the total package. You can't 
 ask anything more of a video game. Just with the co-op and competitive play alone this game is 
 worthy. Then toss in a generous number of unlockables, Trophies and community support, and you've 
 got a phenomenal experience. This is an exclusive that PS3 owners should own in their collection.
 
  
  Insomniac Games have become top notch another solid delivery. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phoenix14
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I looked forward to this game before I even beat the first one. And I was not disappointed when 
 I first played this game. It has everything you would want in a sequel. You have new weapons, new 
 bad guys, new bosses, trophies the list goes on and on. As far as difficultly, for the most part 
 the game was fair (I played on difficult) but there were some parts that was just rediculious and 
 you have to die a few times just to figure out a strategy. Visually it looks amazing, even better 
 then the last one. I also liked the fact that now you can only hold 2 weapons. In the last one 
 you could hold every weapon that was availble at the same time. This time you have to try to plan 
 ahead and make sure you have the right weapon at the right time. The only thing that I felt it 
 was missing was a dramatic ending. The way the game ended was like; yea it happened, I knew it 
 was going to happened so what. But a great game, a must have for all PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmr684
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 12:39 am PT
Review:  I usually have a tendency to ramble in these reviews so I'll keep it extremely short and sweet. 
 While classic deathmatch and team deathmatch modes fall short of the mark, skirmish and core control 
 are fun. The online co-op is unbelievably good. Each level changes in not only difficulty depending 
 on number of players but structurally as well. There are dozens of checkpoints per level that change 
 every new game which adds tremendous replay value. Not to mention that each round will usually 
 take around 15-20 min to complete. By the way, its ridiculously fun. The class system incorporates 
 the strategic style of an MMORPG with the fast paced and short spirts of a FPS. The graphics while 
 hit and miss in parts, are still well done. Weapons are balanced. And as far as lag in online games? 
 There is none! Between the online co-op and the campaign, It would truly be a shame to miss this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanizzle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 was hyped up a lot. The first thing most people probably wanted it for was to have 
 their many questions they had about the first game answered. While R2 does answer a lot of questions 
 in the single player campaign, the campaign does leave some to be desired. Don't get me wrong, 
 it is still a great game, but I was slightly disappointed by the single player. My biggest turn 
 off was the removal of the weapon wheel. The game now limits you to two weapons at all times, kind 
 of saddening when the game has so many awesome weapons. Campaign aside, let's talk about the true 
 beauty of Resistance 2: multiplayer. You can choose Co-Op or Competitive. It's a tough choice, 
 because both are fantastic. With 8 player Co-Op and 60 player competitive, the online experience 
 is phenomenal. The coolest thing about multiplayer is the experience. You get experience for hits, 
 kills, etc. that you level up with. The higher the level, the more options available to you. In 
 Co-Op, you get things called "Grey Tech", which are like currency. At different levels, you can 
 purchase new upgrades to your armor and weapons. The best thing about Co-Op is the 3 classes to 
 choose from: Soldier, Medic, and Special Ops. Each has their own strength and their own purpose, 
 and a team cannot truly function without all three. The online play for R2, in general, is very 
 smooth. I find it easy to find games and start playing for hours on end. I give Resistance 2 a 
 10, mostly because of its online and multiplayer capability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Smooch3000
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 23, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I have never been so excited to play a game and so disappointed when it came time to play it. I 
 bought this game with my brother in law in order to play the campaign co-op that we enjoyed so 
 much in Resistance : Fall of Man. Imagine how pissed off we were to see that in the games sequel, 
 the ability to play a two player co-op mode was taken off the game... isn't this a sequel? Isn't 
 it supposed to have what the first game had and more? Who are these people making their games for? 
 Certainly not their fan base. Instead the multiplayer game is substituted for an all online multiplayer 
 mode that may be tolerable, if the server didn't crash every time you played with two players in 
 an online game. I can play online single player all day long without any problems and the minute 
 I play with my brother in law we get booted off every game we play. Not only is that horrible, 
 but if you want to play an offline co-op game with two players, not only are you forced to be a 
 medic/spec-ops combo, but the games two player offline mode doesn't compensate for there only being 
 two players and has the same amount of chimera as if you were playing an 8 player game. The box 
 says 1-2 players co-op, which would tell someone that the two player campaign mode existed, and 
 then it says 1-60 players online... This game not only false advertises, but it is a huge waste 
 of my money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 2:17 pm PT
Review:  No intro for this one due to limited time, but here it goes!
  
  The Good:
  ~ This game has stunning visuals, but not THAT stunning, looks just a tiny bit better than its 
 predecessor Resistance: Fall of Man with more colors, but this is a good thing trust me
  
  ~ Being able to customize your controls from top down is something Resistance does like no other, 
 which is also a reason i think it stands out from the others 
  
  ~ The story in the game is great, and has a pretty unexpected ending.... Not going to spoil it 
 though. Sorry.
  
  ~ The 60 player multiplayer is great, featuring a new experience system, new maps, and great fun
 
  
  ~The 8 Player co-op is also great, and made like no other first person co-op game i have EVER seen! 
 
  
  ~ The sound is also pretty stunning, and played out perfectly through the game
  
  The Bad:
  ~ Though the "story" was good, the Campaign was a bit too hard for each of the difficulties 
 (Example: Easy seemed Normal, Normal seemed Hard etc)
  
  ~ The Ranked matches in muliplayer failed to work during the first few weeks after launch (im not 
 sure if they are fixed or not but its a bit too late to go back)
  
  ~ There is no 4 player split screen... 
  
  ~ The offline co-op isnt the actual story, instead 
 its the co-op you would be playing online with 2 people... which is pretty hard to accomplish
 
  
  Overall this game is good, but then again i wouldn't recommend a 100% buy unless you want a great 
 Multiplayer experience and maybe a few trophies to go with it.... 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidkratos816
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. It has so many features that it is hard to match the features which this 
 game carries. So let's break down the good things shall we?
  
  Gameplay: Very awesome. It is very fun to play and the game will not get boring for a long while. 
 10/10
  
  Graphics: Graphics are great for the most part. The character models look a bit bland but the huge 
 environments and great looking bosses overshadow that. 9.5/10
  
  Sound: Great music. It gets intensifying and fits perfectly with the action onscreen. 10/10
  
 
  Controls: Can anything be more perfect. The controls are the most responsive ones I have ever seen 
 in a game. 10/10
  
  Replay Value: With a lengthy 10 hour single player, 8 player online co-op, and a 60 player online 
 competitive mode, there is no way you won't be playing this game for a looooong time to come. 10/10
 
  
  Overall: The game is perfect! There is no reason why anyone shouldn't pick up this game. Just make 
 sure you know a little bit about the background of the game. Pick this game up and get those Chimera!
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: no_show
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I have played and finished Resistance 1: Fall of Man. I really enjoyed that game despite the criticisms 
 from the professional reviewers. Resistance 2 is not a huge departure from R1 and that is a good 
 thing. 
  
  R2 is bigger. That is the theme. The bosses and foes you engage are huge. The art style and scale 
 is fantastic and variable. I remember Halo 1 and even 2 being so repetitive from a level design 
 perspective despite the great gameplay and story. R2 is not repetitive. 
  
  The 4 health bar and health packs from R1 are gone and at first I didn't like it. But after almost 
 finishing the game I think Insomniac did a good thing here. Take cover when you are hit and you 
 heal back to 'full'. 
  
  The only other big change is the fact you can only carry 2 guns. This is indeed like Halo and I 
 indeed miss having all guns I've acquired at my disposal. Having only 2 makes for a more strategic 
 approach and more "realistic"? You get over it quick.
  
  I haven't spent much time in multiplayer because the single player campaign is so engaging however 
 I'm told it is fantastic. Again... HUGE. 60 players? 
  
  Bottom line... I really like the game. Now my gripe. Gone is the narrator from R1. She really added 
 some extra insight into both the character and the story. Very satisfying to finish a level and 
 receive the insight from the narrator that pushes the story along. I really, really miss this feature. 
 If they bring her back for R3 they will have a winner. 
  
  All in all, very fun shooter. A must own in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreekSpartan21
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  ok i love this game and there bttr be a third one cuz it just ends like that like come on still 
 i love the ending cuz i kno theres gona be a third one and i dont care whos gona do it but someone 
 better tell insomniac to make a third one or im gona get real pissed off no but seriously they 
 better make a freakin third one cuz im waiting for it and i hope the story in the third is allot 
 longer cuz i found it alil to short. but there bttr be a third one OR ELSE!!!!!!!! i loved the 
 gameplay o and 1 last thing HALE IS SO NOT FREAKING DEAD AND IF HE IS I WILL BE SO FREAKIN PISSED 
 IN THE THIRD ONE O AND THEY SHOULD HAVE HIM AS A CHIMERA AND THEN HE TURNS HUMAN FOR SOME REASON 
 I THINK THEY COULD FIGURE IT OUT CUZ UP TILL NOW ITS AAMZING OR THEY SHOULD HAVE HALE RISE FROM 
 THE DEAD RIGHT AFTER BEAT THE LIVING SH1T OUT OF THE GUY WITH THE HAT (DONT REALLY LIKE HIM CUZ 
 HES AN ASS) O AND GRAPHS WERE SICK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaoticdoom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 3:12 pm PT
Review:  As a huge fan of the first game I got this game expecting greatness, and i was not disappointing. 
 The single player campaign is a great experience full of the good stuff from the first. It is on 
 a much larger scale this time around and each battle is far more hectic and exciting. You do not 
 feel as alone as you did in the first game, because you almost never are. And while the list of 
 supporting character falls greatly, as does the depth of relationships between any characters, 
 the story maintains a good feel to it. The single player does have its short comings though, the 
 weapons feel far less varied and unique as compared to the first, as does the variety of enemies. 
 Several great boss fights through the story make for great fun but lead to disappointment at the 
 end of the game, where the final boss feels much less grandeur and difficult. The multiplayer is 
 great in all aspects but one: no offline co-op for the main campaign, no co-op for the main campaign 
 at all. While the class based, separate co-op campaign is fun, this lack leaves a big hole where 
 the previous is concerned. Yet, the competitive multiplayer delivers well, and short of some current 
 server issues is absolutely fantastic. All in all, a great game, but falls short of perfect with 
 a few missing elements. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyyrobinson
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I was surpsised at first, didn't think they game would be as good as it is. But after playing it 
 for a few days this game is a big upgrade from the last Reistance. Two thumbs up! Wow!... doesn't 
 get much better then this folks... Just an amazing game. From the graphics to the gameplay. You 
 just can't beat it. In my pure opinion, I like this way more then Halo. It is hard to compare the 
 two since they are so different, but I think Sony has Microsoft beat on this one, now only if they 
 community can get bigger. After all, the PS3 Online world is free, Xbox360 still costs just to 
 play. Its an easy choice for me to where I do my online gaming. Playstation Network baby! Now I 
 just got to convince work to let me have the week off because I am too busy playing co-op Resistance. 
 Great job on the game guys, great job. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmurfer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 3:03 am PT
Review:  though i rated the game a 10. It's actually a 9.9 because of some minor reasons. They arent noticeable 
 though or enough to put you off the game. This is really a bleedingly good game. The developers 
 were so considerate to improve things greatly in relation to the prequel. Better gameplay, better 
 online, better sense, just better. But that doesnt mean RFOM was not a great game. The multiplayer 
 co-op was brilliant. More teamwork would now be needed in this game so it would be better for one 
 witta headset to play. Even if you remove the offline or online features, you still have a great 
 game. Still plain users of the game (offline users) would still enjoy its benefits as much as others 
 cuz the game is really a for sore eyes.
  So now for the gamespot computer to pick this up. SPAMMING CHARACTERS IS THE RIGHT WAY TO GOOOOO 
 yeah i meant GOOOOOOOOOO. But seriously the game is really good. THE BEST WARMUP GAME FOR KILLZONE 
 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perrito59
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  This is a great sequel to the first good FPS on the PS3. The story picks up right where the first 
 one left off and has a very good progression to the finish. Nathan Hale has a voice which is a 
 definite difference from the first one. It is much more realistic in that you can only hold 2 weapons 
 at a time. Each weapon still has an alternate fire button which is cool giving new and different 
 ways to use each weapon. Graphically this is an awesome game. The sounds and darkness of the game 
 having to use a flashlight in some areas is great giving it the same feel as a horror game, as 
 well a little bit of gore. Bosses are LARGE and a lot of fun to kill. The only downside to the 
 campaign is that it is short and easy however, the diffifcult and superhuman difficulties are much 
 harder and more entertaining. The average play through time the first time through is between 7 
 - 10 hours. 
  
  The Online play is equally as awesome. Starting with a co-op play that has 61 levels. You can either 
 play as a soldier, medic, or spec ops. Each role is vital in completing each mission. You have 
 to work together in completing each mission if you try to go on your own you will be left on your 
 own and will get no where. This online play never gets old especially when in some cases you get 
 ambushed by as many as 40 enemies at once. Competitive mode is also another form of online play 
 with modes such as capture the flag, team deathmatch, and my personal favorite skirmish. For an 
 online play I have never, I repeat never, had a match with people lagging. The online play never 
 gets old. 
  
  This game is a lot of fun. With the trophies and rewards in the game you can easily get 100 plus 
 hours of playtime on this game without ever getting bored. This game has tons of content that is 
 fun for anyone. If you like shooters and online play this is a must have for PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  resistance 2 brings together a lot of great elements resulting in a outstanding shooter.
  first of all is cool to see that this game totally differs from the first.
  fall of man hardcore 
 fun style could be compared to games such as doom 3.
  resistance 2 is much more realistic and challeging than the first.
  you could even compared its 
 challeging gameplay with call of duty for example.
  
  the single player campaign has major differences from the first, now you can carry only two weapons, 
 your health works just like call of duty (get hurt, take cover...) .
  the cool is that resistance 2 campaign is no more than epic, putting you in huge battles with thousands 
 and thousands of enemies.
  the graphics are amazing and even with a lot of chimera showing up in the screen the frame rate 
 doesnt present a single drop, and actually the multiplayer also dont suffer from any kind of lag.
 
  the single not only deliver bigger battles, but more challeging enemies and a much more sharp 
 A. I.
  the biggest difference is in your teammates, they dont die in three seconds like the first one, 
 actually theyare pretty helpful during the missions.
  
  like if that wasnt enough, you still have a great multiplayer in your hands.
  capable of putting 
 60 players in the same match!
  but what is really amazing is the co-op, that is up to 8 players, that will fight together in challeging 
 missions against the chimera.
  
  the only negative point for me was the bosses in the single player campaign, no doubt they were 
 huge and awesome to witness, but somewhat there is a lack of challenge to defeat them.
  
  in the end considering the single player campaign, the multiplayer and the co-op resistance 2 is 
 just an outstanding package.
  a must buy for a ps3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolhardrocker
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 8:21 am PT
Review:  I have played both, Resistance 2 and Gears of war 2, and even though Gears is a good if not great 
 game Resistance 2 kicks it's ass so badly. if you have to choose, choose R2. It's great campaign 
 is just the begining to a gamer's dream. It has the biggest bosses you have ever seen (as well 
 as the biggest battles) and the most enticing weapns (including new greats magnum, bullseye mark 
 II, the pulse cannon, ect. and of course my favorite...... the Splicer!) as well as some of the 
 most fun enemies to destroy (such as the grimms) . and who can review a game without mentioning 
 the online multiplayer now a days? R2 has the biggest online game up to date on a system, 60 players! 
 Which of course is totally hectic and is not too many people since the maps are the perfect size 
 for such games. And who can forget it's revolutionary 8 player online co-op with a unique story 
 of it's own? with it's 3 classes (soldier, medic, and spec ops) which makes it so no one class 
 is more important than the other and you really need teamwork to complete the game. also i like 
 ho when on co-op the more people you have the stronger the enemies as well as more of the enemies 
 appear where few where when it was just you and your best friend sitting in the same room playing 
 as just 2 players. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naruto62208
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 6:52 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is alot of fun. I is well worth the money and I will play it for a long time. I love 
 the new enemies and weapons. The final boss battle was disapointing however. Also I did not like 
 only having two weapons at a time. I beat the game in 7 to 9 hours Im not sure which. I loved the 
 radio skits throught the game and having a partner made it fun. I really hope that the end is not 
 what it appears to be. I wont say more about it so as not to ruin the ending. I loved getting to 
 hear Nathan talk in the game and to see how he acts in the cut scenes. The intel provided alot 
 more information than in the first game and cant wait to find them all. I do think that three titans 
 at once is a bit much for some players though. I also love the new trophies. I hope there is a 
 third. A must have just like the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  The detailed graphics in all scenes was amazing. New creatures and some old ones to dust off. Some 
 cool new weapons and features added on to them. All this takes this sequel to the next level. Only 
 thing I want to know is why did they kill Nathan Hale? And did he get demoted or promoted in the 
 game? The game play was just as thrilling as the first. The amount of time spent on the geographical 
 details of the game must have been enormous. They didn't miss a trick and you'll definitely get 
 you monies worth. You can pretty much use the same strategy you used in the first game. There are 
 however some new twist that will cause you to divert from that path. Now I need to play again to 
 follow the story because the action just kept me going. Wanted to fly one of those new flying machines 
 but they never gave me a chance. Maybe in the third installment we can get to drive, fly or swim. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stopsign69
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  Insomniac's release of Resistance 2 had high expectations and surely exceeded them. R2 will provide 
 you with a lot to do, it offers Single player, Online Cooperative, and Online/Offline Competitive 
 gameplay to keep you coming for more. The game reminds me of CoD4, Halo and Resistance: FoM all 
 in one game, taking all great aspects of each and making their own great game while still keeping 
 the good old Resistance feel to it.
  
  Single player is extremely unique and makes this game a buy alone, it is extremely well made and 
 very straight forward which I really like. It's not hard to get around and get through the levels 
 and is still very challenging. The game is actually very difficult and hard, you don't have a lot 
 of health and die very quickly. I am playing on normal mode and I've died a numerous amount of 
 times, over 100 and I've only played for about 6 hours. This can sometimes be frustrating but the 
 key is to use strategy, cover and your set for the entire game. The bosses are MASSIVE, something 
 I've never seen in another game before, and each have their own unique ways to beat them. The single 
 player alone has good replay value.
  
  Cooperative mode is also very cool, you are doing story mode except in a different perspective 
 and have your own mini missions to do. There are three different classes you can choose: Medic, 
 Artillery, and Soldier. Medic's should be healing the party, Artillery provides ammo and Soldiers 
 should be killing the enemies, although each class can also kill enemies regardless. You have to 
 kill mini bosses and stuff like that which is cool. You also get class experience for each of the 
 three classes which lets you enable certain things as well, which is a cool feature which adds 
 replay value. My only complaint about this feature is that it would of been nice if you could actually 
 do the real story with other people, but this feature is also one I wouldn't want to lose.
  
  Competitive mode is were most people look for in a game, addicting, competitive and just plain 
 fun deathmatch. There is also a level system for this mode which is separated from the coop mode, 
 which allows you to get really cool new perks when you level, as well as different armor skins. 
 This mode is extremely fun and well made, I play this game over any other FPS as of now just for 
 this mode. It's fun and keeps you coming back for more. I am hoping that they will add some addons 
 to the game which gives you more modes and more maps.
  
  9.5 out of 10, I think that's a very fair score and with a few more online maps, and more online 
 modes, this game could deserve a 10/10. A great value and a PS3 exclusive, what are you waiting 
 for?
  
  Go buy Resistance 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghassanms
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  I'm really enjoying this one more than part one better in almost everything, big creatures just 
 does it for me, the graphics are spectacular so is the game play, breath taking and addictive, 
 I didn't try the multiplayer yet but I'm sure it will rock me as i loved the part one multiplayer 
 very much and actually played it online for almost 3 months (daily) after finishing the game. it's 
 more difficult than part one although, but this is the best part about it. I hope that it will 
 continue to impress me & long enough game play, cause I don't want it to end as soon as I get heated 
 up. Overall I think the Insomniac Games in the end took their time and did well with this one in 
 my opinion so far is that it's a good sequel and will probably bypass the first part I'm sure of 
 that. i hope this is helpful for people which didn't buy this game yet, and if you are a first 
 person games then do not hesitate and go for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sk8er3123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 23, 2008 4:58 am PT
Review:  how should i start, this game is amazing, wonderful ,fantastic etc.
  campain is asome i wish it was longer. online is the best i have played. its a must get. there 
 is 1 more down side its that there is not many maps so it might be a little repetive but not really. 
 to wrap it up just get it u wont rerget it and dont listen 2 people who give it 8.0 and lower. 
 amazing  
 must buy  is my ffrst review sorry for not being so good but any 
 ways just get it its worth the your money and is addtictive!! get it get greatgreat wow wow wow 
 wow wow wow wow neeed more words amazing masterpice fantastic perfect !!!!!!!!! wow wow wow wow 
 wow wow  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEHOOVER007
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  This review is only on the campaign mode. TOO SHORT !! The story line in this one was less engaging 
 than the first. The weapons were similar which was fine. The AI was better in this one which was 
 a plus. The big pitfall was the lack of vehicles to pilot and blow stuff up. That warm feeling 
 of blowing up a group of enemies with the main tank gun like in the first was absent. It detracted 
 from the game. The developers need to take the best from other games such as GOW and Halo. I did 
 appreciate the tactical pluses of this game in that you can carry only two weapons at a time. The 
 controls were generally responsive and did respond effectively. The bottom line with this installment 
 of Resistance franchise was that they failed to hit this one out of the park, but did create a 
 fun shooter just a bit short from the first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rcsnow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 10:14 pm PT
Review:  Presentation:
  
  - A continuation of the launch title franchise, Resistance 2 continues the battle against the Chimera. 
 Lack of a narrator does hamper some of the cohesiveness of the game, however.
  
  Graphics:
  
  - Resistance 2 does have some weird technical and visual glitches, but the sheer 
 number of enemies on screen at once adds to the feeling of a massive battle for humanity.
  - Large, vividly detailed environments.
  
  Sound:
  
  - Otherworldly sounds coupled with 
 great voice acting and ambient effects heighten the action of the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  - Single-player is a great experience with an epic scale to the campaign, but adding co-op and 
 competitive play within the game only serves to augment the overall gameplay.
  - Smart, tough enemies and huge, huge bosses.
  - Varied and powerful weapons. 
  
  Lasting 
 Appeal:
  - A fast paced 10 hour single-player campaign with multiple unlockables and difficulty levels are 
 matched with extra multiplayer modes, gameplay options and community features.
  - Fantastic eight-player cooperative mode.
  - Lag-free online matches with up to 60 players.
 
  
  ----------
  
  OVERALL: 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcraine
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  Let me just say that I am reviewing the single-player campaign only... I don't really go in for 
 multiplayer. So in that regard I've rated this game a little lower than other reviewers. This game 
 is full of action. It looks and sounds great and as far as battle sequences go, you will never 
 be disappointed with this game. However, I am disappointed in the story-line of this game; especially 
 when the first game actually had a decent story that was told well. In the first game there is 
 a narrator who tells the story in the past tense and then you actually play through various parts 
 of the story referenced in the narration. This is actually a cool technique as it helps to tie 
 the various parts of the story together and it gives the player the sense that he's acting out 
 a part in some larger drama. This second version of the game has none of that. The story unfolds 
 as you go and for the most part makes very little sense. The problem with this is that, for the 
 most part, you have very little idea why you're doing what you're doing. Shooting enemies is fun 
 and all, but in the end it's nice to at least feel like you have a reason for doing it; to feel 
 like all you activity is actually leading you somewhere. I think that is the biggest flaw in this 
 game. If you're looking for a continuation of the story from the first game, you'll be disappointed. 
 But, other than that, this is an excellent game and yields many hours of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beastofeast1416
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Let's start with the one thing everybody's hating on. The single player campaign is nothing special. 
 It's not bad, the story is interesting enough if you played the first game. Not much to say though. 
 It's simple with a lack of variety. Now, this game is worth buying if you never even see a second 
 of the single player. I will start with the competitive multiplayer. Last year COD 4 had everyone 
 playing it's multiplayer. This winter everyone should be playing Resistance 2's. It doesn't have 
 a lot of game modes, but what is there is awesome. Like COD there is a leveling up system. What 
 is unique about this one is that it takes XP from the campaign, co-op, and competitive and puts 
 them into a universal level up system. You individually level up in each one, but overall you go 
 from private to corporal and on in a universal XP system. But to the game modes there is team deathmatch, 
 regular deathmatch, core control, and skirmish. This is the first game i have played where plain 
 old tdm is fun. So is regular deathmatch, and core control is basically capture the flag and is 
 good as well. The game really shines in skirmish though. Since you can play with 60 people, they 
 created a mode that would control the chaos. Basically your split up into squads of 5 and you play 
 against a rival squad. You and the rival squad will each have an objective that is similar to each 
 other. It may be control a specific area or kill a specific squad member. This game mode is very 
 fun and feels controlled to get you away from the chaos of the other modes. The chaos is good in 
 the other modes though. Now onto the co-op. The co-op alone is worth 60 dollars. Basically it is 
 a campaign that isn't just the single player campaign with more people. It is of a special forces 
 unit. The max number of players is 8. You play as medic, spec ops, or soldier. The medic has a 
 gun that sucks energy from the enemies and the alternate fire heals your teammates. It is a very 
 rewarding medic compared to a game like team fortress 2. The spec ops guy is given a long range 
 weapon and his secondary fire give ammo to his teammates. The soldier has a mini gun with the secondary 
 fire being a shield that can protect you and your teammates for a time. You individually level 
 up each class. You unlock beserks which are somewhat like perks, but last for about 20 seconds. 
 This is a great game however there are some flaws. It looks good sometimes, but not as great in 
 other areas. The party system is a little funky to use. My biggest beef with the game is that you 
 can't play the single player campaign in co op. I love the co op they put in, but one thing i loved 
 to do in the first resistance was play it through in co op which they took out. Other than those 
 things there isn't much wrong with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthTechGeek
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Just so you know, I hated the first Resistance (R1) . Resistance 2 (R2) cleans up all that R1 did 
 wrong, and then makes it even better.
  
  Campaign:
  R2's campaign is a quite enjoyable experience. Opposed to what a lot of other people are saying, 
 I found the campaign to be very engrossing. It conveyed the disparity and massive scale of the 
 situation very well. The difficulty on the normal setting felt just right, some parts were harder 
 than others, just like they should be (note: I am a veteran of many FPS) . Also, the cut scenes 
 are generally very cool, and much better than R1. There is no longer the annoying narration that 
 set the story in R1, and is basically told through the campaign and cut scenes. Boss fights exist 
 in the game, and are unique and fun. It took me about 10 hrs to beat. Very enjoyable.
  
  Oh... and I did like the ending. It wasn't a generic epic game type ending.
  
  Multiplayer:
 
  Multiplayer is amazing. 60 player battles are intense. The game uses a class based system and 
 you proceed into battle with a selected class, each with a set loadout. You can grab downed weapons 
 though. Also, I have yet to encounter lag, and I have played for about 8 hrs, in different matches, 
 online. Some people also seem to be sending the wrong message across to others by saying that there 
 is no co-op. There is co-op, it just doesn't run through the campaign, it runs a different branch 
 that is meant for multiple people (8 total) . This new take to co-op is very fun and interactive, 
 and also extends the value of the game. There is one BIG problem with the multiplayer though. It 
 is plagued with frequent network errors. Sometimes I will have to restart my ps3 in order to get 
 back online. I will also be enjoying a match for about 15 minutes, and then bam, network error. 
 While these are frequent, they don't occur in every match, and it still doesn't kill the overall 
 online experience.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics in R2 are simply great. I have seen better, but very few as smooth. A great deal of 
 games who have amazing graphics sacrifice a clean, jagged free, picture for more detail. R2 has 
 very good detail, and very few jaggies. It also has the classical Resistance look to it, but it 
 is actually implemented well. Environments are large and beautifully painted. The water affects 
 are the most advanced water effects that I have seen to date (it's basically real time water effects 
 and not generic repetitive splashes and ripples) . Overall, one of the best looking games on the 
 PS3.
  
  Sound:
  Sound was executed well in R2. Ambient background noise conveys each location well. Weapons each 
 have a unique sound. Gameplay music is cool. Although, I will say that the death music $ ( me 
 off.
  
  Overall, there are a some annoying online bugs, but the game is overall a very enjoyable experience. 
 If you are a FPS kind of person, I suggest getting this game. If you hated the first Resistance 
 and are worried about getting this one, don't worry, it is way better than the first. See you in 
 the battlefield, 30 vs. 30.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrandonaterR
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  In Resistance 2, you are now in the United States of America. Resistance 2 beats the original in 
 every way. The multiplayer is much more organized, there is a co-op mode where you can play with 
 8 people, and there is the campaign where you can play single player only. In my opinion, the co-op 
 was the most fun part about this game because you can choose from three classes including a Medic, 
 a Soldier, and a Special Ops. Each needs to work together throughout the matches to win. The competitive 
 is what you would expect it to be, killing eachother. If you liked the first Resistance, you will 
 surely love this game because it has improved graphics and gameplay. The storyline still continues 
 off Nathan Hale's battle against the chimeran virus. Nathan Hale actually talks in Resistance 2, 
 which builds some character about him. The game can be beaten in about 8 or 9 hours on normal difficulty 
 but it is a lot of fun all around. The only downfall of this game is that you cannot play the campaign 
 on co-op. If have been thinking about buying a game, Resistance 2 should be on the top of your 
 list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Solid
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:05 am PT
Review:  No words can describe how i feel about this game it is utterly epic.
  I got it and i pulled a all-nighter, and finished it. By the end my fingers were pulp, when i closed 
 my eyes all i could see was a cross hair popping off chrimera, just awesome. the ending was on of 
 the most ballsy moves on a video game, when u get it and finish it you'll know what i am talking 
 about.
  
  Don't let the big boss scare you or anything like that remember the bigger, the harder they fall.
 
  
  The game starts with Nathan hale who discovers that he isn't the only guy who is resistant to the 
 virus, which kills hale's glory a bit but not to worry the stuff he does in this game can be compared 
 to what snake from the mgs series has done...
  
  
  Anyway awesome game.
  A must buy for Fps fans.
  This game will boost your reflexes by 10%, just superhuman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derek1177
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I bought Resistance 2 the first day it came out but i couldnt really get into it until it the weekend 
 do to my busy schedule. I really think i have played this game enough to actually rate it. THis 
 game is by far the best PS3 exclusive ever. Topping Uncharted Drakes Fortune. The Gaem is a 720p 
 game but dont be fooled. This game has fantastic graphics. Ive noticed that PS3 exclusives have 
 far better graphics then games released for both the PS3 and Xbox 360. The game is easier then 
 the first by a whole another level. when you play on normal you start wandering if you accidently 
 played easy. But that might just be because i beat the first resistance and have been playing that 
 one on hard. And you can just play on hard which is real hard if you feel like it is to easy. The 
 campaign is a good 8 hours long. THe chimera are in much more variety of different species and 
 detail. The game's level of design is amazing. The bosses are awsome but are easily beaten on your 
 first try if you have some experience with first person shooters. there is a bunch of new weapons 
 and some were takin out but there was no loss do to the new weapons. You can only carry 2 guns 
 at a time which is much more realistic. some of the guns have new looks but have the same basic 
 function. The M something Carbine looks the same except it has a more steelish look to it. It is 
 also a lot funner to have because it does more damage then it did in the first gaem and it is much 
 smoother and has greatly improved accuracy. It also feels a lot better to. The bullseye has a new 
 look to it but is otherwise the exact same thing. The campaign is long and fun. Yuo will have play 
 solo missions to having a squad of 4. You dont command them which is ok with me cause i dont like 
 commanding squads. Im not going to explain all the guns but there was the 2 main guns. Go buy it 
 to figure out more. Now the terrain has a HUGE variety. You will play from the Lush Green Iceland 
 to The urban citys of San Francisco and Chicago. You will play in the Forests and Deserts and swamps 
 of The United States of America. Now the Story is much better then the first. Even though gamespot 
 says otherwise i dont agree. In the first game that girl narrarated for him. In this game You get 
 to know the characters better and there is some relationship between you and your sqaud members. 
 You dont always play with your squad by the way. It aslo has little movies to but they arent as 
 comin and they lack real narration. Now the online is interesting. You can play online co-op but 
 you dont actually play the single player campaign which was a huge dissapointment ot me. You play 
 a map that randomly generates objectives and enemies to shoot at. You play in several different 
 settings. Some funner then others. there are 3 classes to choose from and i wont give much away. 
 The competitive online was WAY WAY better then the first games competitive online. You can choose 
 from anygun in the single player campaign and instead of firing faster like in the first gaem they 
 fire slower. Which i like better actually. there are several modes to play in which i cant remember 
 a lot of them. There are lots of different maps to. Overall this game is one of the best games 
 ever made for the PS3 including beating COD4 (only for PS3, COD4 for PC KICKS BUT) !!! Go and Buy 
 it you wont be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joeyg431
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 9:00 pm PT
Review:  You will die many times in this game. Well, at least I died : (. Anyway, this game is AMAZING. From 
 the weapons to the enemies, it's an all around great shooter. But what makes it AMAZING is the 
 Online and Co-Op features. Personally, I play as a medic because it's the most rewarding class 
 to play as, and you always get 1st place! The Competitive aspect of the Multiplayer is awesome. 
 For skirmish, 60 players are split up into squads and go around completing little objectives. Overall, 
 it's an awesome game. The single player campaign kept me going for about 20 hours. 5 hours of looking 
 at myself die. Seriously, I died a lot. But once you get past the level, it's very rewarding. I 
 totally recommend buying this game, whether it be for Christmas, your Birthday, or just because 
 the game is a total BEAST! If you own a PS3, you owe it to yourself to go and get this game. If 
 it's too much of a hassle to go outside, order it online and you'll get it soon enough. Frankly, 
 I would climb a mountain to get this game if I were you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LegiaKing16
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:24 pm PT
Review:  I believe that Resistance 2 is one of the best games up to date. It was way better than the last 
 game by a lot. They changed it a bit and I would say for the better. 
  
  Well lets start from the beginning. Resistance 2 takes place about 2 years after the first game, 
 Resistance: Fall Of Man. The first level is kind of out of place because it begins a couple hours 
 after the first game and in Iceland. Also, this game takes place in America in 1953. Some levels 
 are: San Francisco, Chicago, and a place in Louisiana called Cocodrie. One place that wasn't included 
 was New York City which kind of surprised me because most video games use New York City and just 
 New York so I was happy when they didn't include New York (No Offence New York) . 
  
  Anyways, it's almost like the same old story with Nathan Hale kicking Chimera butt to save the 
 world except he has one problem. He is "becoming the enemy he hates." In this game, they're is 
 a main bad guy not like in the last one, and a lot of bosses to kill, including the Leviathan in 
 Chicago. 
  
  The game has awesome music. When an ambush is about to happen the music changes a bit and makes 
 the game really scary, while when everything is ok, then the music is just normal, while in a battle 
 the music cause you to pump adrenaline through your veins!
  
  Other than having killer levels and a great campaign mode, the online is AWESOME. They have 30 
 vs. 30 people which is awesome. They also have online campaign and other stuff. It is a revolution 
 for the PlayStation Network.
  
  If you own a PS3, I would recommend that you should go and buy Resistance 2 and you should go buy 
 it NOW! The Holidays are soon and it does make a great gift if not for someone then for yourself. 
 I personally recommend this game to you.
  
  ~Legiaking16 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gustavosmivel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I hate to know that some people are using here to post tech issues and not use the official Resistance 
 2 forum to complaing about it ?
  
  The game is the best i've ever seem on PS3 and the co-op, 60 multiplayers are unique.
  
  The 
 60 multiplayer mode is so fun that when you start you don't even think in get out because kill 
 and be killed on that mode is not the point.
  
  Co-op is very very fun and why we don't have an option of 60 players on that mode ? Imagine the 
 possibilities and the fun that wwe could have with that.
  
  Insomniac still have some things to ajust like the AI inside co-op and a better system of CL and 
 group parties but nothing that a patch can't fix.
  
  Another thing that would be very appreciated is a way to put a picture of the guns that you have 
 inside the change weapon menu of co-op and multiplayer.
  
  Another thing that is good but could be better is the graph of co-op and multiplayer that are discrepant 
 from the campaign mode.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Merovingyo
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Since I've heard about Resistance 2 for the very first time I've been caught by all the hype around 
 it. When the Open Beta was announced I went to myresistance. net and immediately registered myself 
 hoping to be lucky enough to receive a beta key. I thought that I couldn't be happier when I saw 
 it on my mail box... I was wrong. I was even happier playing the Co-op on Beta. 
  
  Game pre-ordered, game received. The campaign is as astonishing as Ted Price promised it would 
 be. Played on the hardest difficult level. The graphics are amazing, textures, colors and etc. 
 The story is not that great but it's definitely compensated by the excellent gameplay, wonderful 
 boss fights and terrific level design. The Campaign is almost perfect.
  
  Unfortunately not everything about Resistance 2 is as great as its outstanding campaign. The much 
 hyped multiplayer modes are as fascinating as Insomniac said it would be but, there's only one 
 problem: You'll never know if you'll be able to play/join an online match either Competitive or 
 Cooperative.
  
  Since I finished the Campaign I've been struggling with Resistance 2 to join and even search for 
 online matches. I've tried with two different ISP providers (I have two in my home) , via wi-fi 
 and connecting it directly on PS3, changing IP, etc, etc, etc. It doesn't matter what's done, I 
 just keep receiving Network errors (00170007, 00170000, 00180007...) over and over and over again. 
 I've tested other online games COD4, FarCry2, Unreal3, SCIV, they're all working perfectly fine. 
 Just like me, hundreds of players are now facing the very same, annoying problem. It's a shame.
 
  
  No matter how wonderful Resistance 2 Multiplayer modes are, if being able to play is a question 
 of luck, the whole thing is compromised. Reliability ZERO.
  
  As I said the campaign is almost perfect but it's just a part of the game. So at this point a 9.0 
 E. C. is way way way higher than it truly deserves. If they fix that, something that I don't believe 
 they'll be doing in a while, I'll have to agree with a 9,0... So far, I'll call for a 7,0.
  
  It's just disappointing such a wonderful game with so many SERIOUS issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Resistance is back for a second time if you played the first one that came out about 3 years ago 
 then you know that Resistance is a great and fun game. Well this time it's brought all that goodness 
 back with even some more.
  
  Basically the story takes place where the first one left off. Nathan Hale is back once again that's 
 who you will be playing as. Hale is with a group of soldiers that are Sentinels then the story 
 goes a few years and you find your self in the United States where the horrible Chimeran disease 
 is going around. If you want to know more about this fantastic story than you'll have to play the 
 game and find out you're self.
  
  Just like the first one all those awesome weapons are back that you loved using to kill everything 
 that got in your way. And there's even some new awesome weapons so try them all out when your playing 
 through the game and see which one you like the best. You can only carry to at a time but it isn't 
 a big deal you'll find weapons a lot to switch out and stuff.
  
  The graphics of the game are nice the buildings and everything looks great so pay attention to 
 all the detail. There more types of enemies this time around so it nice to be killing new things. 
 Now the best thing about the game is the boss fights to me. Your fighting these huge things that 
 just look hideous and none of them have weaknesses.
  
  Overall Resistance 2 is a great addition to the first one so if you liked the first than you'll 
 defiantly like the second. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LHSleadtrumpet
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2008 12:43 am PT
Review:  Ok, this game is GREAT!!! The multiplayer and co-op is intense and addicting. This game alone is 
 a good reason to buy a PS3. Insomniac has really stepped up its graphics, gameplay, and story-telling 
 since Resistance Fall of Man. The Chimera are now (in my honest opinion) very smart, strong and 
 quite the force to be reckoned with. In the easiest mode, sometimes my friends and I still get 
 owned by overwhelming Chimeran firepower. the graphics are SICK. Every shadow is prevalent, every 
 little thing is solid... and I don't even have an HDMI cable, which fully exploits the game's graphics. 
 Sound... It is so convincing. The weapons sound real and cool. The voice acting is so convincing, 
 that whenever I encounter a radio in the game, I stop to listen. The radio DJ really sounds like 
 an authentic 1950s era broadcast. Some characters voice acting are so convincing, that I often 
 just feel like i am really a part of the story. There are so many other things that I could say, 
 but i am too lazy to type it all (I have a life) .
  Just play it for yourself and you'll understand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Autolycus
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 12, 2008 7:37 am PT
Review:  If you enjoyed the first Resistance for its SINGLE player mode (and I mean 1 player only, not split 
 screen) you'll probably love Resistance 2.
  
  If you enjoyed playing co-op campaign mode with a friend, you can count that gone. 
  
  If you 
 want to play with 2 people on your machine and 50 people online, you can count that as MISSING.
 
  
  Your online choice is to play with only you on your machine, that's it. It seems developers these 
 day's have given up on the time consuming coding of putting in split screen and have gone for the 
 quick release date with an inferior product.
  
  If they would've kept all the split screen options as they did in Resistance one, I would call 
 this a 8.5 for sure. There is simply not enough difference to even fathom a 9. But we all know 
 it doesn't work like that.
  
  From a real gamer that has had his hand in the pot since the beginning, if you want to play this 
 game with your friends, you are better off with Call of Duty 4 or Call of Duty 5 if you can wait.
 
  
  If you ONLY care about Single player and on you at your machine, then you'd probably like Resistance 
 2 more then I did. 
  
  Bad
  - There is no split screen + online play (it'll fail out time after time)
  - The online mode 
 has no campaign mode, its levels only
  - When playing 2 player split screen only, you dont stand a chance because the levels are designed 
 for 3 plus people.
  - The Solder/Sniper/Medic idea is great, but that's where it ends.
  - This game is useless if you have friends over.
  - The split screen graphics are dumbed down 
 considerable compared to 1 player.
  
  Good
  - If you like 1 player only, this game is great
  - The game isn't real life?:) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Its been two years exactly since the Playstation 3's launch and one of its first titles, Resistance: Fall 
 of Man. Resistance was known as one of the best shooters for PS3 and still lives up to the title 
 today, with many interesting weapons, a dark and mysterious alternate history of the World, and 
 an alien infection spreading across the globe, and you, Nathan Hale, a lone U. S. soldier, travel 
 across the Atlantic to fight the Chimeran infection in England. Not only did the first Resistance 
 offer this but also a great competitive online mode full of the same great weapons as single player 
 but also a great rewards system and level up system. Now two years later, to celebrate this anniversary, 
 Resistance 2 has been released, but does it live up to its prequel? 
  
  Gameplay 8/10- So much to say already so let's start on the single player campaign. Now first we 
 will start with the good. Single player seems quite evolved since the first title with a new health 
 system, a new setting, and a new squad. Resistance 2 has a lot of the same great weapons as Resistance 
 2 with a few new ones, but not many. Also, the Chimeran still have great A. I. and use a lot of 
 ducking and covering to avoid being hit. There are a lot of returning Chimera from the first such 
 as the Hybrid (of coarse) , the Leapers, the Titans, and the Steelheads (Auger Hybrids) and also 
 a few new enemies, also not many. The environments remind me a lot like Halo 3 and seem slightly 
 generic like any other alien shooter. There are a few levels I liked, such as Chicago and Twin 
 Falls which were pretty open-ended and reminded me of the first Resistance. Although I liked the 
 level design of RFOM better, which featured more post-apoctolyptic environments and seemed more 
 open-ended and darker. Also Resistance 2 kind of breaks away from the dark and mysterious feeling 
 that the first one had and goes more hardcore shooter like, with not as many dark environments 
 and predictable ambushes. Also, they redid the health system like every other shooter where instead 
 of a health bar, you just regenerate it all, which I think was a bad idea for single player. Also, 
 the new enemies they add are challenging and ungeneric but not many new enemy types were added 
 and many of the ones I really liked from the first game were removed. The new weapons they added 
 do seem a little generic like they would be in every other game but their secondary fires are fun 
 to use. Also, the story isn't as interesting or mysterious as the first game. Although, a few loose 
 ends with the Chimerans and Hale are cleared, your squad seems like any generic squad in a shooter 
 and you will probably develop no attachment to any of them in the entire story. Overall, single 
 player seemed to be a little rushed with a lot of generic and areas where you are inside far outnumber 
 outside areas. A few elements that made the first Resistance seem classic were also removed and 
 the story isn't all that great. 
  
  Now online, that's a different story. Online is highly improved and what this game is. Screw single 
 player, online is where this game is at. Co-Op, is very fun and you and a team of different classes 
 join together in a mission to take down hordes of different Chimera and complete objectives. You 
 get experience for completing these objectives and injuring, or killing, enemies. As you level 
 up, you gain perks and different items for you character. There are three classes which are all 
 very helpful and interesting, medic to heal, special ops to snipe and provide ammo, and soldiers 
 to do the majority of the fighting and clear areas. Now competitive, this is also very fun. New 
 modes that are interesting were added as well as a better experience system and new medals. There 
 is more variety you can add to your character which the first Resistance lacked as well as the 
 ability to be a Chimera or human. For some reason this mode has the health bar which should have 
 been included on single player. Although I miss some maps from the first Resistance this game offers 
 some great maps which are even more advanced than the first Resistance. The online menus are more 
 organized and it is easier to find a game. Also it supports up to 60 players online, making every 
 second epic and intense. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- These are far advanced from Fall of Man and make the environments look more realistic 
 as well as the Chimera. Although they are a little strange at first, probably because I was so 
 used to Fall of Man's graphics, you will grow used to them. Animations are also great with more 
 gore and exploding enemies. Although I don't like how the Titan explodes, the old way seemed less 
 dramatic and much cooler. Besides that and maybe a few minor tweaks, graphics are looking much 
 more realistic. 
  
  Sound 9/10- No problem here with the same weapon and Chimeran sounds from the first game. Voice 
 acting is pretty good and the music really fits the military-like mood of the game. Not much problems 
 here. 
  
  Value 9/10- This games single player maybe offers about a month of replay, with trophies and a 
 few interesting unlockables, but not many. Single player can be beaten in around 8 hours as well, 
 making it fairly short. Once all single player trophies are obtained, single player doesn't have 
 much of a reason to be replayed. However Co-Op and competitive online are almost as fun as Call 
 of Duty 4 and will make the game last months and months until Killzone 2 and Resident Evil 5 next 
 year. 
  
  Tilt 9/10- I am a litttle dissapointed in single player and I think Insomniac might have dropped 
 the ball there, but other than a partially generic, short, not much new enemies or weapons added, 
 a weaker story, and more action focused single player, online is great and makes this game a must 
 own for all PS3 owners who are looking for a good online game. If you are looking for only a single 
 player game, only rent this, for it is not worht buyting for its short and lackluster single player 
 mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarcusTheKidd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:01 pm PT
Review:  I haven't finished the game yet, but so far I like it. I mostly agree with the GameSpot reviewer 
 for once. This review is just for the campaign, not the multiplayer. To start I want to say I give 
 the game so far an average "A". The good:
  The game feels pretty good. The controls are very responsive and it is awesome that you can make 
 custom controls. You know like assign buttons to do whatever you want them to. The weapons are 
 accurate and do not take great effort to dispense of regular enemies (they require reasonable effort 
 to dispense enemies. There are tons of enemies for the most part (which is of course why you bought 
 the game, not for some 40 hour HD Cartoon Blue Ray movie like MGS4) . I am not the best shot (I 
 am pretty good though) , and it seems like I barely run out of ammo or if I do I find some more 
 just in the nick of time. There are new enemies, which is a step in the right direction (some players 
 would prefer it if, the game were exactly the same as the first, BORING) . The bosses are different, 
 and with the exception of the original standard enemy most of the other enemies you will encounter 
 have been altered or are completely different. Graphics are good for notch for 720p. The maps and 
 the story are good enough for me. I mean hey, there is an invasion and he is trying to stop it. 
 What else do you want? A novel? If so, you should read one. The less pleasing:
  You can only hold two weapons at a time. While that is completely realistic, the game isn't realistic 
 (knock on wood) , so I should be able hold as many weapons as I want like in the first. After all, 
 this dude is turning into an alien. He should be able to do alien things. The game is limited to 
 720p. Seriously, 720p? It has been two years since I enjoyed the first edition. Since I spend two 
 days in Wal-Mart for my PS3 and the game is still in 720p. It should really be in 1080p by now, 
 but I digress. Another issue I have is with the cars and some of the buildings  for some reason 
 their design makes me feel as though I am in a comic book or something. A shot from the future 
  for some reason Hale and the rest of the team is wearing some sort of compact earpiece, which 
 to my knowledge didn't exist in the real world until about 5 to 10 years ago so how did he get 
 one and why can't he hold more than two weapons?!!! The game isn't as spooky as the first one was. 
 Well not yet at least. The first game for some reason was just creepy; this one isn't for some 
 reason. I mean there are invisible enemies or whatever, and still ugly creatures, but that "oh 
 **** a feeling is gone. I guess you just expect it. Oh, my least favorite. I am pissed I give it 
 a 9.2. The sound  it is way hard to hear the dialog while playing the game. Everything drowns 
 it out. I know this is war, but seriously I shouldn't have to turn my TV way up to hear what they 
 are saying. The dialog is important because it tells you what to do during the game. It isn't just 
 pointless talk. As you can read, the "less pleasing" is pretty superfluous, which is why I gave 
 the game a 9.5. I like it. The only reason, I haven't finished it yet because I want to make the 
 game last. This is a great shooter with plenty of action and pretty good graphics. It is well-worth 
 the rating GameSpot gave it. A must have and a great continuation to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carby21
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Well lets start with multiplayer. Multiplayer has tons of good things like giant 60-player battles 
 and to keep it under control they have you break up into squads of 5-7 but in ranked games they 
 have no balancing system so you'll be in a squad of 2 versus a squad of 7 or worse, but not always 
 will it be like that so don't be too worried. It will not lag unless some cheap noob has a lagswitch. 
 Now with the graphics. The graphics have some textures that are bad but not too often unless there's 
 a giant boss or something like that. Now with co-op. Its the best out of all the game modes and 
 it will bring you into the most craziest momements of your gamer life. Co-op has tons of moments 
 with teamwork is required or your game will be over. Now with the campaign. You'll face giant bosses 
 like the leviathan which is 300-foot tall and picks you up and tries to eat you. There's enemies 
 that run at you arms swinging at you trying to bring you down. Now with community. Resistance 2 
 has beta. myresistance. net to meet and talk about the game and its European beta that ends soon 
 or has already ended. Now with clans. There are lots of features with clans such as joining one 
 or creating one. You always have access to your clan by the allies button in the menu or select 
 community on the main menu then clan for more options. Now is this the best game or something to 
 roll over? Its the best game ever so you won't be rolling over it at all so don't be expecting 
 to play campaign and leave the game and go onto a new game. 
  
  Q & A 
  
  Should I get R1? Yes you should.
  Should I always be in a clan? Yes its a good idea when playing 
 R2. 
  Should I get the strategy guide? Yes it gives you a lot of info. 
  
  Thats it everyone! 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordsman117
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Got my copy at Best Buy when it was released. I sat down and played expecting it to be as good 
 as the first one. My first impression is that it's better than the first one and also a bit of 
 a step back for the franchise. Don't get me wrong though, it has a solid multiplayer and lengthy 
 campaign. But is it still a game that elicits the "shock and awe" feeling or could we wait for 
 the bargain bin?
  
  STORY- Resistance 2 starts off as soon as the first game finishes. You begin in Iceland which is 
 already under attack. This serves as the tutorial of the game. Fast forward to two years later, 
 US has been invaded and the remaining resistance just hanging on. It's a typical story which involves 
 aliens/ mutants and a hero's rise. Story wise it's not nearly as convoluted as Halo, but not as 
 good as MGS4.
  
  GAMEPLAY-It's a typical shooter that is very linear in nature but also quite engaging once it gets 
 rolling. You'll never run out of things to shoot. There's always a constant threat around every 
 corner. By saying this, Resistance 2 has more enemies on the screen than any other shooter that's 
 out today. I've also never noticed any drop on frame rate. It's constant and really adds to the 
 overall experience. The enemies that you'll encounter are more fierce and tougher than before. 
 
  
  This is probably where most of the complaints would come from. The enemies in Resistance 2 puts 
 up quite a fight. It's not that the AI is too smart but the fact that the enemies come in packs 
 (10 and up) . Its more likely to get overwhelmed by their sheer numbers than them outsmarting you. 
 It's the pacing that's killing you most of the time in Resistance 2, one minute it's quiet then 
 all of a sudden they come out of nowhere. It doesn't help either that your enemies are good shots. 
 There are segments in a mission where you have to face off with enemies that has more fire power 
 than the whole Jedi Order. Yup, it's that tough and unfair.
  
  GRAPHICS- Current generation games are plagued by what I like to call "real is brown". Resistance 
 2's color pallet is very diverse. You'll travel to all sorts of locals across America with varying 
 degree in environments. San Francisco, checked, Chicago, checked, Iceland, checked and so on. 
 
  
  What's really impressive is the scale of everything, from huge bosses to the looming war ships 
 overhead, Resistance 2 rarely disappoints. 
  
  SOUND- From the discharged of the AUGER to reloading your Carbine, it definitely feels authentic. 
 The weapons sound right, and feels like it packs a punch. The dialog is nice and doesn't feel forced 
 .
  What can I say, when the bullets come flying, it gets really noisy.
  
  MULTIPLAYER- You've heard of the 60 player battles and 8 player co-op, then there's nothing to 
 see here. It just depends on your tastes.
  
  COMPLAINTS- Cheap deaths, overkill, and mother... well you get what I mean. Resistance 2 is freaking 
 hard. I'm playing this at a normal difficulty setting, and the game is tearing me apart. Note to 
 self: don't expend grenades. The only thing standing between you and finishing the game is the 
 load out that you choose. You can carry two weapons at a time, as opposed to the first game. So 
 headshots are necessary if you want to survive to the next checkpoint.
  
  Another one is the boss fighting segments, it can be ridiculously easy to somewhat hard. It doesn't 
 take a rocket scientist to figure out the pattern and exploit it. Which is usually the case. It 
 seems like the bosses were just a quick time event, you interact with them in real time but it's 
 more like a puzzle than actual skill. Killing them is not as epic as it seems. It's slow, boring 
 and hardly exciting. I'm talking to you Leviathan! God, a common grub is harder to kill than these 
 guys. It's just that everybody in the gaming world has a big boss! It gets tedious and repetitive. 
 Most of them are also brain dead.
  
  You're kidding right? No split screen? I got my kicks out of the first game with split screen. 
 Sadly it's not here and that just sucks...
  
  CLOSING COMMENTS- Overall though, Resistance 2 is a good game. It doesn't innovate or put anything 
 new to the world of FPS but it's environments are certainly colorful. The AI clearly needs some 
 work but I can live with it. They need to tune down the difficulty setting, it's way too hard for 
 a first person shooter without a cover system. I guess they're going for "all guns blazing" theme.
 
  
  From the looks of it, Resistance 2 seems to be a bad game but it actually has its moments. I have 
 to admit that the game can be somewhat fun at times... and at certain levels. But I can't recommend 
 it for people looking for a single player experience because it lacks the narrative and somewhat 
 originality. However, for people looking for multiplayer, this is the game to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eastwick3188
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  This game is what people wanted and needed this holidays, its full of action and fun. Before buying 
 it I was thinking if I should get this game or something else but once I got it I realize that 
 I could have been of the many other retard people that didn't get it. 
  
  Talking about the game, the graphics are amazing, the environment is well detailed, when the character 
 runs the view changes to a feeling of rush and excitement. Voice acting is great and it goes well 
 with the game. I cant complain at all about the gameplay, its great and there is nothing wrong 
 with it. I have to say that the story is somehow stupid but the rest of the game makes up for what 
 the story f**** up.
  
  The online game play is packed with lots of fun so don't waste your time reading my comment and 
 go buy it if you haven't or at least rent it and I'm sure that you will not be disappointed at 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2929
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  Well this game i crazy funn. the campaign is long enough. for you to have funn with. The most out 
 standing part is the co-op and competitive aspect of the game. Well when you play online i different 
 the any other game online the I have ever played. Even better the cod4! The ranking system is cool, 
 you get many different thing when when you rank up.
  The are many trophies that you can get.
  The cons when you are done play an online game you go 
 back to the main screen. You dont stay in the same server as you would like.
  
  
  Well this game is not as good as Metal Gear Solid 4, i bet know one can beat that come on that 
 a great game. well resistance 2 might be better then Gears of War 2 or might not be. You guys decide 
 if you have an Xbox 360 and a ps3!
  if you have the money to get then get and know some of you are not going to get it because Call 
 of Duty 5 that came out all ready 
  but i give this game a 2 thumbs up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamTrini
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  First of all the graphics for this game are not what everyone is hyping it to be. Yeah distant 
 shots look great but why is when I look down right in front of me the blood looks like a pool of 
 Kool Aid and pixels look like they have been copied and pasted from Doom. Campaign mode is great 
 but fails to draw you in entirely. I totally understand the look Insomniac was going for (the dark 
 and gloomy look) but why do I feel forced to use my flashlight even when I am outside in broad 
 daylight. Online was the biggest letdown for me, after playing COD4 you gotta come hard or don't 
 come at all. Hey if I wanted to play Halo I would buy and XBox 360 Sony!!!. It is too arcadey, 
 again the graphics fail to maintain even the quality of the single player mode and it feels like 
 you are running around in a helter skelter fashion trying to kill your opponents. Co-op has no 
 real story line and again feels flat. Good idea though in creating the different classes so you 
 really need to depend on your teammates. Overall this is not the best FPS for the Playstation 3, 
 rent it first to see if you like it (all based in want you are looking for in a game) or you will 
 waste $60 on a game that does not live up to its expectations. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BowlsOfJustice
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:28 pm PT
Review:  The long anticipated sequel to resistance is finally here, and i have to say I'm a little disappointed. 
 The campaign mode is relatively fun to play, giving you new insights on the characters and the 
 struggle for humanity's survival. The bad part about it is that its just a run into a room and 
 shoot kind of game. There are almost no tactics involved in this game, they just made the Chimera 
 a little harder to kill. One thing i did enjoy was the intensity of the fighting because of their 
 massive numbers, but at the same time you use every bullet you have because the computers were 
 beyond retarded and did nothing but hide while you killed everyone. The only thing i liked about 
 the AI is that the black dude looked like Big L. This game had so much potential that was wasted 
 away. The cutscenes weren't worth all the fighting it took to get there, they were cut incredibly 
 short and had almost no action. The cutscenes that did have action were cut too short and kind 
 of unrealistic. Some parts of the game were very frustrating cause somehow every enemy knew where 
 you were and were shooting at you through the walls when you were incredibly far away. As well 
 the death music was incredibly annoying and that was really your only incentive to stay alive. 
 And what was with that ending?? it was so weak i couldn't watch it a second time. "Oh we're safe 
 now... oh look there's a giant orb in the sky"... blam and nathan is dead because he finally converted. 
 The ending made NO sense whatsoever and it just killed the game for me. It had SO much potential 
 to be awesome. Granted there could be a third, but who would be the main character? and why the 
 hell didn't they try to explain what the hell was going on in the rest of the world or the aftermath 
 or something, and furthermore try to explain why the towers exist, what they do, and how we couldn't 
 know there's a species millions of years old with advanced technology left behind under our feet. 
 and what happened with the Chimeran war? this game leaves WAY too many important questions unanswered 
 and has a weak story because of it. They should've really tried harder, this game cant really compete 
 with Gears 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 7:53 pm PT
Review:  Two years ago, the Ps3's top launch title from Insomniac Games, Resistance: Fall of Man introduced 
 us to an alternate history. Mankind's fate was on the line as the aggressive chimerans overtook 
 all of Europe. The United Kingdom was on the verge of destruction as we looked to one hero. Two 
 years later, that same hero returns. Nathan Hale is back. And Resistance 2 is really, really damn 
 good.
  
  The story picks up precisely where the last game left us, with Hale being taken by a group of soldiers 
 in London. These soldiers are Sentinels, who share the same immunity to the Chimeran disease as 
 Hale. The tale then shoots forward two years to the United States where the entire nation is trembling 
 in the Chimeran wake. The story of course follows Lt. Hale, and his squad of soldiers as they defend 
 their homeland, wreaking havok on looming skyships, in Downtown Chicago, and in your backyard.
 
  
  The characters aren't particularly engaging, aside from Hale, but the relationship he shares with 
 a few of them is rather interesting. The lack of a narrator makes you pay attention to what's happening 
 during the game, trying to understand character motives, and seeing them struggle through their 
 fights. It's an extremely character driven tale, and it works. Throughout the 10 hour campaign, 
 you discover just what Project Abraham is, how the disease in Hale develops, and a little bit more 
 into why the Chimeran are attacking and how they originated. Maybe it's not as deep or gripping 
 as something like Halo, but when all is done, you'll look back and appreciate the effort from the 
 writers.
  
  The cornerstone of Resistance's gameplay was its unique weapons. In Resistance 2, this remains 
 intact. Fan favorites such as the Carbine and the Fareye make their return with new looks and a 
 few improvements. New killing machines include the Splicer which is a saw shooting, limb tearer. 
 The Marksman rifle is basically a rip off of the battle rifle from Halo, but I'm not complaining. 
 You can only carry two guns at once, but the game does a fantastic job of allowing you access to 
 most guns at the right situations. This ends up being a good thing, as ammunition becomes more 
 of an issue at times, increasing the intensity of the gigantic fights.
  
  And what epic battles these are. Often, there are dozens of allies and enemies on screen at once, 
 and at times it can be a little overwhelming. The first Resistance rarely had these instances, 
 often throwing you into a dark corridor and throwing six or seven enemies at you. This time around, 
 it's rare to find those moments. Nearly every single fight involves you with twenty other Sentinel 
 soldiers, not to mention your own squad. The battles take place over massive landscapes, with several 
 enemy types at once, constantly swarming you with something to deal with. And the wars vary and 
 feel different every time, with the help of some great AI.
  
  The game does a good job of getting a lot done in only 10 hours. You'll be trekking through the 
 forest in North California with a shotgun and four other soldiers, only to have them all killed 
 off and pit you against one seemingly indestructible enemy. In Downtown Chicago, the large battle 
 on the bridge there is the most exhilarating thing I've ever experienced in a videogame this year. 
 It was at that moment that I knew Resistance 2 was more than something special.
  
  The levels themselves are vast, while keeping a fairly linear feel. It's impossible to get lost, 
 even at those moments where you are lacking an objectives arrow. They're all beautifully detailed, 
 from the sunset lit buildings of flooded Chicago, to the bay of San Francisco. There are still 
 the occasional set of invisible walls, but this is still a world drooping with ambiance and a sense 
 of genocidal warfare.
  
  The Chimera themselves have seen upgrades from the first game. There are many more types, as opposed 
 to the hybrids. The grim are basically zombies that swarm you in the hundreds, at high speeds. 
 There are a few instances during the game that they will attack you scriptedly, and you need to 
 blast them with all you have to get through the storm. Reapers make their return, as do the damage 
 soaking Auger carriers. The game throws several Titans at you at a time, which are huge cannon 
 wielding creatures that often require some kind of explosives to take down. Drones that make patrols 
 will shoot bullseye fire at you. Each enemy type has a best way to be taken down, the fun is figuring 
 that out and executing on that.
  
  The bosses in Resistance 2 are the star of the show. Each of them are absolutely gigantic, they 
 all look hideous, and what's more impressive, none of them have a weakness. You're just thrown 
 in with them, and are told to take them down. It's unique that despite the size of these bosses, 
 it's up to you to take them down, not up to the game telling you how to.
  
  And that's just the single player campaign.
  
  Insomniac has somehow been able to create a 
 multiplayer game that fits 60 players without any significant glitches, server issues or framerate 
 hitches. There are several maps from San Francisco, Orick, and other locations from the single 
 player campaign, with several variations meant for the number of players in a match. There are 
 a few different game modes, the regular Deathmatch and Team Deathmatch, Core Control which is essentially 
 capture the flag, and Skirmish Mode which splits the teams up into squads and gives them an everlong 
 list of objectives. The teams always need to communicate with each other and take a very tactical 
 approach, while still keeping it fast paced to win the match.
  
  There are berserks, which are special skills available for the players to use. These can be things 
 like the ability to see other players (including enemies) on radar, taking less damage, or dealing 
 more damage. They're similar to perks in CoD4, but they can only be used once the berserk meter 
 is full, and they only last for a period of time.
  
  Multiplayer is frantic, no matter the game mode. Every weapon is available to you to use, so you 
 need to figure out your own play style and adjust to it, because playing online is a matter of 
 points and experience, not kills to deaths ratio. The style of game Resistance 2 is, means that 
 you will die a lot, because it's so intensely fast paced and hectic, but when you do succeed it's 
 incredibly satisfying. The guns all feel great to use, and if you can get used to the way the game 
 plays, the multiplayer in Resistance 2 is deep enough to have you coming back for more for it will 
 consume your life. It's not haphazardly slapped together. This is the real deal multiplayer with 
 the rewards, the game modes, and the fun.
  
  Aside from playing the main campaign split screen with a buddy, there is a fully fleshed out coop 
 mode that supports up to eight players. This doesn't follow the story from the single player campaign, 
 instead following its own missions. The enemy AI here scales depending on the number of the players 
 and their skill. That means that if four players enter a match, all of them playing their first 
 match, enemies will be a little bit slower, there will be less of them, and they will take more 
 damage. However, if eight highly skilled players in the same clan enter a match, there will be 
 several enemies, they will be tougher to take down, and objectives will be further away. It's a 
 very dynamic approach and it's a revolution in the coop genre.
  
  Instead of letting players go into coop matches with their own loadout of weapons, Resistance 2's 
 coop mode has three classes: Spec Ops, which gives the players a Marksman Rifle, and the ability 
 to give out ammo. Medics have a gun (which is only available here) that sucks the life out of enemies, 
 and then the player can shoot the health to other members of their party. Lastly, Soldiers have 
 a chaingun, a shield, and can soak up the most damage. The three balance each other out, because 
 players need to work together to get through these missions. The only way to heal is through a 
 medic, and the only way to get ammo is from a spec ops. Without Soldiers, the Chimera would advance 
 on the party destroying the mission.
  
  Visually, Resistance 2 does not disappoint. The graphics are extremely sharp and vibrant, and the 
 art style is unlike anything seen outside the series. Textures are detailed magnificently, lighting 
 is excellent, and the game runs at a steady clip. For a game of this size to look as good as it 
 does is amazing, and undoubtedly Resistance 2 is the one of the best looking shooters out there. 
 Every sound effect was done greatly, with some excellent music to boot. The presentation in Resistance 
 2 screams polish.
  
  Resistance 2 is the kind of game that you will appreciate the most the more time you spend with 
 it. Initially, it seems like just a well put together shooter, but it becomes apparent that it's 
 much more than that. Resistance 2 is the essential game you need for your Playstation 3 this holiday 
 season. If you enjoyed the first game, there's no doubt you should buy Resistance 2. If you're 
 into great first person shooters, then you're in for a treat. This is the most fun I've had in 
 a game in a very long time. It's pretty much a guarantee that you will be blown away at least once 
 during the campaign, and several times in the other modes. That's the sign of excellence. When 
 you see something on screen and just think to yourself "Wow."
  
  For Radio USA, this is Henry Stillman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roonsta
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Resistance: Fall of Man was a great game, dont get me wrong, but obviously some people gave a bunch 
 of cons about it. Well you know what? Insomniac have totally upped the bar on this one, making 
 it an almost completely different game than the last one. I have played a million of sequels to 
 games, and i am here to tell you that if it werent for the plot, you would never be able to tell 
 that resistance 1 and 2 were the same games. Seriously, this game has brought gaming to the next 
 generation, even though our world gamers think that it couldnt even get better.
  
  First off, lets talk about gameplay. Yes this game has increased gameplay 100% since the last game, 
 adding better weapons, amazing co-op and multiplayer is just sick. You are now trying to fight 
 a literally absurd amount of chimera and the graphics are just so realistic now. The guns seem 
 so much cooler, everything makes this game a 9.5which in my book means a MUST HAVE GAME FOR ALL 
 PS3 OWNERS!
  
  Campaign: AMAZING story. You are basically nathan again and the chimera have invaded u. s. I am 
 not quite finished, but the story is highly addictive and the maps/areas in it are just freakin 
 awesome. I mean a campaign cant get better than this. If you like halo 3, GOW, or other xbox exclusives 
 that you think may have the best campaign, try this one. However this is not the reason you are 
 going to spend the best 60$ on a game you ever could.
  
  On-Offline co-op campaign- See, this is the reason i do not give the game quite a 10. Although 
 the co-op is very fun and addictive (trust me i played w/ my 2 friends and we were on it for hours) 
 I have to say that people may be upset about the fact how its too easy for people to join online 
 randomly. I honestly dont care, but what upset me a little was how little cut-scenes (if there 
 are any) in it, because it truly isnt a "second" campaign compared to the first. however, this 
 game offers the best TEAMWORK i have seen in a while, and if you can manage to find 8 people online 
 all with headsets, well this game cant get much better. Still, this and campaign arent the main 
 reasons you should buy Resistance 2.
  
  Online Competitve: 2 words. FRIGGIN SWEET! remember guys, ps3 online is free and hasnt ever matched 
 up to xbox live... until now. NO GAME ON LIVE HAS 60 PLAYER MAPS I WIlL GURANTEE YOU THAT. The 
 online is so well based it is amazing. Although there are only 4 modes, ranking up is much more 
 difficuly than the last game, which is the key to making you play more. currently, it is hardfor 
 me to find a match, but i am telling you that this is a total success. And you want to know that 
 thats it right? WRONG! You can game with another person on your console (aka player 2) and they 
 can just have a blast on any mode with you for fun. This is just amazing, especially for a ps3 
 game to achieve so much out of FREE online play. I still think that xbox live does have its ups 
 and downs, but this breaks the line people!
  
  So in the end, Resistance 2 is a must buy! All of the bad reviews are wrong, dont listen to them! 
 Get this game ASAP, because it has changed gaming for ever and i gurantee you will like it, resistance 
 fan or not! Once again, online will never be the same, not what resistance 2 has brought us!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Having played and greatly enjoyed Resistance: Fall of Man I made sure that my pre-order was one 
 of the first. So I ordered the game via Gamestop and, on November 4th, rushed to the store to secure 
 my copy.
  
  Resistance 2 DELIVERS. As a sequel to an extra ordinary game I feared that it might suffer short 
 comings but the second is truly marvelous. Many weapons are not only fundamental and useful but 
 essentially necessary in some fights. Environments are sharp and the sound of war has never sounded 
 so real. Enemies are clever and with such a huge variety its hard to know just what may come at 
 you next.
  
  A few short comings that I made note of was the fact that the graphics definitely took a downfall. 
 After beating the 2nd Resistance I went back through the first and found the chimera looked much 
 sharper, but it is such a small difference that after a few minutes you quickly forget. Another 
 was, though I appreciate them making the game harder, the new health system seems spontaneous and 
 rather short. Sometimes you can take ten hits and still be set for action. Other times you take 
 only three shots and have to hide for ten seconds. This steals away from the fast pace action of 
 the game sometimes but, once again, this is a small problem and the overall game more than makes 
 up for both of these.
  
  Final Note: Buy it, play it, and experience the marvelous chaos that is Resistance 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is everything that a stellar sequel should be, and then some. The graphics, sound, 
 and scale of the game have received dramatic overhauls since the first Resistance, and the new 
 additions make R2 one of the top shooters released on consoles.
  
  From the moment that the single player campaign begins, it is clear that Insomniac tried to, and 
 succeded at creating a campaign that will keep players in awe at almost all times. From a tense 
 assault in a towering redwood forest to a more confined, Quake-esque battle through a Chimeran 
 ship, R2's levels provide plenty of variety and entertainment. The Chicago level in particular 
 is masterfully executed, and stands as one of the best levels of any game I've played. Unfortunately, 
 the story does not always meet the high standards set by the gameplay. The beginning in particular 
 feels pretty disjointed, and some of the early CG cutscenes are a bit cheesy. The final minutes 
 of the campaign are the sole exception here: They are unexpected and will leave players wanting 
 more.
  
  R2 also features a full co-op campaign for up to eight players, and available on or offline. This 
 campaign is at least as strong as the single player game. It plays totally differently, but is 
 just as intense in many ways. While the single player campaign casts players as nigh-invincible 
 soldier Nathan Hale, allowing them to wade through plenty of enemies without dying, the multiplayer 
 modes cast players as weaker Specters. Also, while Hale can weild any weapon, there are three distinct 
 classes in co-op, each with their own function. Because of the difference in player strength, weapon 
 loadouts, and the massive armies of enemies that assault the team, teamwork is a must. The medic 
 class can heal allies, but only if he kills enough enemies to restore his restorative energies. 
 The spec-ops class weilds a three-shot-burst rifle and can provide allies with additional reserves 
 of ammo, and the soldier class is the main damage dealer of the group, weilding a chaingun. If 
 the massive size and quantity of levels, ranking system complete with class upgrades, and huge 
 emphasis on teamwork weren't enough to make the co-op an instant classic, each level rearranges 
 itself subtly every time it is played, ensuring that no experience is ever the same. People will 
 be playing co-op in R2 at this time next year, and with good reason.
  
  The competitive multiplayer is the weakest aspect of the package, but it is still above average. 
 The main problem with competitive play is that the weapons are so much weaker than they are in 
 the other campaigns, making it difficult to adjust at first. Once that hurdle is passed, the four 
 different online modes are mostly a joy to play. One quirk that has presented itself recently is 
 that, although the box promises epic games consisting of 60 players, the quick game feature never 
 leads to a full game. Playing with 10-20 players is more common, but still pretty fun. 
  
  R2's presentation is simply excellent, especially the graphics. The size of the enemies and the 
 scale of the encounters are unrivaled on consoles or, for the most part, PC. Environments are crisp, 
 clean, and bright; they really are a joy to behold. The same is true of character and weapon models. 
 The sound works very well, but doesn't pack quite the same punch as a few of the other top ranking 
 shooters. 1950s era music is used from time to time to pretty good effect, but it doesn't come 
 close to having the same effect that this style of music had in Bioshock. Overall, the presentation 
 is superb, but doesn't quite reach the levels of the current industry leaders like MGS4. 
  
  There is one more quirk with R2 that bears mentioning. It has a pretty steep difficulty curve. 
 The casual difficulty feels more like normal in other games, and normal more like hard. It is probably 
 best to play through once on casual before playing through a second time on normal or hard.
  
  Shooter fans would have to be insane to pass up R2. It is easily able to stand alongside the 
 genre heavyweights, and its three different game modes each bring something unique and fun to the 
 table. Resistance 2 is the latest in a series of absolutely, positively, must-buy games released 
 this holiday.
  
  Graphics: 10/10: Pretty much amazing. Not as good as MGS4, but the massive scale makes up for it.
 
  Sound: 8.75/10: Music is alright, but the monster sounds are quite good.
  Gameplay: 9.75/10: A little difficult, but R2 always keeps players on their toes by constantly 
 introducing new enemy types and gameplay modes.
  Entertainment: 10/10: Truly the most entertaining shooter I've played in a very long time. The 
 story might not pack much of a punch until (literally) the last minute, but the gameplay more than 
 makes up for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaconB1ts123
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I will start by saying my only real gripe with the game is not being able to play the campaign 
 with a second person on the same tv. I had a blast with my bro on the first one. Since I am mostly 
 a xbox FPS fan , it is saying a lot that I like the controls and I can actually aim well. Not that 
 either controller is better , just that I am used to one more. The campaign is well done and I 
 never felt lost on where to go or what to do. I must say the save spots are perfectly placed so 
 that when I die there is very little backtracking if any. 
  The online is well done and surprisingly smooth with 60 ppl on the map. Sometimes when picking 
 a large map in the search for games option you end up with as little as 12 players and a giant 
 map, but this will resolve as more ppl get the game and the filters are updated. Overall a great 
 game that I have put more time in on than any other AAA title to come out on all the systems this 
 October/November. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: general_milo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 10, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  For starters, we'll start off with the campaign:
  
  The campaign can get kinda boring at times and a tad frustrating, I started on difficult so it never 
 gets old. The level designs are at times ASTOUNDING! The graphics are very good, especially if you 
 have an HDMI cord hooked up. The weapons are sweet, wish they kept some of the old ones though, but 
 besides that... The campaign is great!
  
  Multi-player:
  
  The multiplayer, the first time you play this, you WILL be hooked... BELIEVE ME! The modes are great, there 
 are  skirmish. All these modes are extremely addicting 
 and are very distructive, but trust me, playing a 30 vs. 30 Team-Deathmatch is a blast. Same with 
 the 8-player Co-op online, it was a great add-on from the last game. There are 3 diffirent classes 
 and they all have a job, in order for the team to survive, they all need to do their job. For instance, the 
 soldier just needs to protect the team with their massive wraith gattling gun or the team is dead, the 
 spec-ops needs to give ammo to get ammo, and the medic shoots healing blasts and there is no replenishing, 
 so you need a medic.
  
  Graphics:
  
  The graphics are absolutely great! A much better improvement since the last resisitance. The graphics 
 are only good in certain places though, such as if you look at barbed wire, it will only be a 2-d 
 picture, just like in every game. Besides the pastes of the 2-d pictures, the graphics are incredibly 
 awesome, once again, especially if yoou have an HDMI cord.
  
  Overall gameplay:
  
  Just for short words...
  
  THE GAME IS A ABSOLUTE 10/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HayoMayo44
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 4:53 am PT
Review:  Im new to PS3 but not to FPS, and this is one of the most impressive Ive ever seen regardless of 
 the platform. Previous to this the games Ive been most impressed with was Gears Of War, and most 
 recently Dead Space. I was blown away by Dead Space, but this game actually pulled me away from 
 it and I have been back since. The enemies are creepy and intruiging, however maybe a little on 
 the stupid side but I have not yet tried the harder diff settings. I can safely say that one run 
 through of this game will not be enough, going back and winning this on harder settings is a must. 
 Not to say that "Normal" is easy, its not. But its just tricky and I feel like Im getting through 
 it faster than I sshould be being a PS3 noob.
  
  Graphics - 9.5/10
  Controls - 9/10
  PLayability - 9.5/10
  Replayability - 8.8/10
  Sound - 9.5/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: _R4ptor_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:49 pm PT
Review:  This game looks and plays better than R1, some of the stuff you come up against are simply astounding, 
 and the single player campaign is awesome, perhaps not as good storywise, but more fun than anything 
 I've played this year (except Crysis Warhead) .
  
  The multiplayer is even better, online 60 players with no lag is an achievement of note, so I'll 
 be playing this for a good time to come (only did this for an hour or so, since I'm still on campaign)
 
  
  However, the mode my friends and I played all the time on R1 was the campaign co-op, which absolutely 
 rocked. Why did they take that away? I see many complaints of this so I just cannot see why they 
 removed it.
  
  I'm really disappointed that they removed the co-op, if they left it in I would have no problem 
 giving this a 9.5 or even 10, but I can't get myself to rate it more than 8.5, even though it still 
 is an awesome game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSWII60user
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Overall this game is easily the best shooter on the ps3, and one of the best i've played in a very 
 long time. the graphics are top notch, and especially for a game of this scale. i feel that in 
 order to truly review this correctly i have to break it down into the different game types.
  
  1. Campaign: to keep it shot and sweet, the game is unbelievable. it is immersive, HUGE, and 
 just plain fun. the level design is great, it is linear but doesn't feel like it, and the scale 
 is like non i've ever seen before. the boss fights are as fun as MGS4 (and thats saying something) . 
 the game is hard but it just makes it all the more rewarding. the guns are great, they kept the 
 good ones and got rid of the bad ones (like that dumb one that shot goo) . so obviously the campaign 
 gets a 10/10.
  
  2. Offline co-op: Im sorry to say but this is the worst co-op i've ever played in my life. you 
 can only have two people which is ok, but that means that one person always has to be a spec-ops, 
 and the other a medic. it is very hard with 2 people, enough that it makes it even less fun. the 
 "story" is non existent (unlike what insomniac told us) it is just a series of un-fluid missions 
 that have nothing to do with the game and really take away from the whole resistance experience. 
 this was the worst move that insomniac could have done, and i don't get why they didn't keep it 
 the old way.
  5/10
  
  3. Online Co-op: this is where the co-op idea shines. even though the missions don't really make 
 sense, and once you lose or win one you loose your whole group and have to join a new game. nevertheless, 
 it is extremely fun playing with 8 people in all the chaos of trying to give meds, or ammo. it 
 is fast, frantic, and awesome.
  8.5/10
  
  4. Online Competitive: this still confuses me, i was in the beta and i've been playing online since 
 the day it came out, and i don't get how they have 60 people on one map with not a trace of lag 
 whatsoever. the play is quick, and fun.
  and it gets an easy 10/10
  
  Now that all averages out to an 8.3 out of 10. and yes i know now your saying but you gave it a 
 9/10. here is my answer. to put it bluntly, anyone who buys a game like resistance and gives it 
 a low score only because the co-op offline split screen isn't good, is stupid. this game wasn't 
 touted to have the best split-screen ever. so get over it and play the campaign, or some competitive 
 online and stop whining. i am so sick of seeing reviews that say. "this game is one of the best 
 ever, but the co-op campaign sucks. 2/10" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluffers623
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  the first resistance launched with the ps3, and it was truly a great game. insomniac improved on 
 the first, and made the second one much better. you might miss how rachael parker tells the story 
 in a black and white picture, and that can either be good or bad. for me, it was fine; i didn't 
 mind it. the iron sights are also new, and some of the old timers might not like it too much. other 
 than those 2 issues, the rest is flawless. the campaign is longer, and the bosses are great. the 
 multiplayer is where it shines. the coop can support 8 players in an all out war. there is the 
 spec ops, soldier, and warrior, all of which need each other to survive. the competitive is great, 
 and does a great job at not getting to chaotic. the squads are a great addition as you can spawn 
 back into the firefight. the only problem is how you get an error message saying "You have been 
 disconnected". its weird, but does not occur too often. this is a great deal for those who have 
 or haven't played the first game. last but not least are the graphics. they are nothing special, 
 but nothing that will make you eye sore. there are a few set pieces that are very nice, such as 
 the leviathan in chicago. 
  
  graphics: 8.8 (they're almost there)
  gameplay: 10.0 (totally amazing)
  story: 8.4 (good but not as amazing as the first)
  value: 
 10 (lots of hours :) )
  overall: 9.3
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: koreapsay
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Again, really disappointed, maybe my taste has changed over the past 2 yrs but I still remember 
 resistance 1 being so much more engaging and had an awesome "shooter's touch" to it. I feel that 
 developers need to look at other competitors and evolve, anticipating the growth of gamer's expectations. 
 I felt as though the developers finished making this game soon after the 1st, and waited 2 yrs 
 just for the marketing purpose. It was very wrong decision to throw in a couple weapons and expect 
 something huge to happen. Throw in the awfulness of story line? come on! I could have made up that 
 story. I am so mad that I'm starting to think if my past feelings of Resistance 1 was nothing but 
 a glorified memory. The only thing that saved my review score from being lower was massive multiplayer 
 function which was actually interesting. Otherwise I would have given it 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PuppetMaster786
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I rented the first and I bought the second, trust me if you have second thoughts about this game, 
 stop thinking and buy the game you will not regret it!!!! You may think that fighting aliens again? 
 : ( And that how can you do this in 19 hours (time the main dude has left to live) well stop doubting 
 because i thought the same; but when i played this only one thing was crossing my mind- Best Shooter 
 Ever. I have played Call of Duty 4, Rainbow Six 1 and 2, and Resistance 1 but none made me feel 
 so into a game, interested and excited all at the same time. (Call Of Duty came close) . Also you 
 will have a lot of fun playing with your friends online and trust me it is not disappointing. Also 
 the graphics are amazing, game play awesome and intriguing, story line interesting, so i have to 
 say this is one of the best games out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_orias
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  This game will keep you from interaction with the outside world. R2 gives you more than your moneys 
 worth with not only a fantastic single player, but a separate, and in many cases more entertaining 
 co-op campaign. The first time I played through the single player I did so on the difficult setting. 
 This was hard. Very, very hard. I consider myself a FPS veteran but this just got ridiculous in 
 some situations. The new halo adopted only being able to carry 2 weapons at once makes ammo a serious 
 commodity. You better be using a weapon that most of your enemies in the area are or you're going 
 to have to melee a lot of enemies. The giant boss fights are difficult but not cheap. You feel 
 a sense of accomplishment after defeating one. R2 makes its money though in multi-player. The co-op 
 campaign could have been it's own separately packaged game. It is awesome. The three classes are 
 beautifully balanced and play perfectly with each other. The missions are hard but not impossible. 
 Teamwork and communication are encouraged and rewarded but not required. The missions are diverse 
 and the battles are intense. The only draw backs I found in this game are the story, a lot of it 
 is told through intel documents that are hard to find, and an issue with the 2 player online co-op 
 that I hope will be fixed soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Cipher
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  Well folks, Resistance 2 is finally here with bigger, better gameplay, improved graphics, better 
 storyline, much better dialogue between characters. This game is the way to go. If you didnt play 
 the first one, no worries because the story in this one will keep you on track of whats going on. 
 Nathan Hale is back with the Chimeran Virus inside him and he joins a group called The Sentinals 
 that are also infected by the virus and try to take on the Chimera, which invade this time in the 
 United States Of America. You get to expierence HUGE scale battles that are only possible on the 
 PS3 and the AI is so well done, same as the story. The online gameplay is a satisfactory, everything 
 is there of what you expect from an online game and you get to level up aswell, and the higher 
 the level, the more cool stuff you get to unlock... People if you like FPS games you cant miss this 
 one... PLAY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: h4ppycl0wn
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:22 am PT
Review:  Ok, so I just finished Campaign mode for Resistance 2 earlier tonight. It was what I was expecting 
 it to be, an "Epic" game. My first play through was on Normal, about to go through again on Difficult. 
 Well let's get this review underway.
  
  If you finished the first game in the series then you will know what's going on from the get go. 
 The game picks up right where the first lets off. Our protagonist Nathan Hale is found wandering 
 a winter wonderland after just destroying a Chimeran facility. The chopper lands and Nathan is 
 instantly subdued and taken captive. But don't worry these guys are friendlies just doing there 
 job. You pass out and awake in Iceland amidst a massive battle which, unsurprisingly, results in 
 your helicopter being shot down. Now's the time to start blasting your way through the Prologue.
 
  
  Resistance 2 all in all is a solid game. I enjoyed the Campaign very much, from massive boss battles 
 to swarms of Chimera, the game play always has you on the edge of your seat. The Campaign is great, 
 but the multiplayer seems to lack a bit.
  
  Drop into Competitive mode, this is your typical Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Capture the Flag 
 multiplayer. Yes that's great and all but I've been unfortunate enough to experience the technical 
 problems of the game. Joining a free for all game and trying to actually play legitimately results 
 in a pain. The game will actually spawn someone directly behind you, it doesn't even look for a 
 safe location for that player. It just seems to want to give the player a "free" kill. Also another 
 problem with actually playing online is that I've heard multiple players report that they receive 
 an error when connecting. "Network Error. Disconnecting." I have yet to experience this, but from 
 multiple sources this is happening quite frequently. I would doubt that it is just a coincidence.
 
  
  Overall the game is great, aside from the tech issues (nothing a little patching can't fix) all 
 three aspects are really superb.
  
  
  This game has earned the *h4ppycl0wn* Recommended Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sksk3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:57 pm PT
Review:  this game is very very good. it incorporates ideas from call of duty 4 and medal of honor airborne 
 in terms of weapons capacity (only 2) , and other miscelanious items (like running) . there are new 
 weapons, like the wraith, a portable chain gun; a magnum pistol; a makeshift sawblade shooter called 
 the splicer; and of course all of the classics. the missions are kinda hard and boring, but once 
 you play through it once and figure out where to go and what to do, it is really fun. the physics 
 are amazing, limbs of your enemies can come off, enemies can blow up into pieces, and new headshot 
 physics. there are new chimaira as well, but i dont want to spoil the game to you. the online is 
 great, which incorporates classes to choose. i would definately recommend this game to everyone 
 who has the ps3, especially those who had the first resistance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: growancad
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 8, 2008 11:15 pm PT
Review:  I was eagerly awaiting the release of R2 and ran right out and bought it, put it in and started 
 playing. The first thing I noticed was the change in color depth from Fall of Man to R2. R2 is 
 more vibrant than the original, not a bad thing necessarily but does make it look a little more 
 cartoony than what the original conveyed in its 1950s era somewhat muted color depths.
  
  The second thing that caught my attention was, when being awoken by the doctor I noticed he was 
 talking but I wasn't hearing anything. Fortunately, after a required update, I played through again 
 and this time the doctor was actually audible.
  
  The next thing I experienced was after killing some creatures I proceeded to get on an elevator 
 and although the creatures I killed were a good distance away, when the elevator started going 
 up the creatures floated up with me as if they were on the elevator. nice.
  
  
  Then, the water's reflection on the ceilings is a nice touch in those areas that are flooded, EXCEPT 
 the water shouldn't reflect onto a ceiling if there isn't ANY water in that particular room, right?
 
  
  I took off with an NPC going into a tunnel where spinners were and next thing I know my sidekick 
 is stuck by a truck, running in place like Michael Jackson. It was quite comical as I would have 
 to bait myself to get the spinners to chase me back to where he was so he could help me shoot them 
 as he just kept running in place. I tried shooting him, running into him, hitting him, yet the 
 only thing that worked was restarting the level. That was very frustrating.
  
  The excitement I've had for months for this game to be released has given was to disappointment 
 as, although I'm not through with the single player campaign yet, I now expect there to be more 
 problems with what is otherwise a fun game to play.
  
  This kind of thing should not happen with a game of this notoriety and caliber. I can only hope 
 Insomniac spends their time reading these blogs, since I feel like maybe they didn't play the game 
 through before releasing it. If they did, it's sad that they'd release it with as many bugs as 
 it has. 
  
  That being said, the game is fun, but for me to recommend it I would have to say lower your expectations, 
 have fun, and deal with the occasional hiccups that will happen in this otherwise great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikeoxlong182
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review and i plan on doing more, i just wanted to get that out of the way and 
 would appreciate some feedback.
  
  Im going to make this quick cause you all should be getting this game and playing it now.
  
 
  Lets begin with the single player, this is one of the best first person shooters i have ever played 
 and one of the main reasons for that is it is pure fun, nothing but fun. What makes it fun you 
 ask? Everything. The new weapons, the new enemies, the huge battles, and lets not forget the huge, 
 huge bosses. The story is not anything special thus far, (ive been spending alot of time online) , 
 but i expect a big ending.
  
  Now the co-op, all i could say was wow. When i first played this in the beta me and my 7 teammates 
 were amazed we could hear eachother having so much fun it was great. There are hoards of enemys 
 coming your way bosses can take a long time to take down and is really worth 60 bucks itself.
 
  
  How could you forget the online competitive? Let me say one thing "60 players-ZERO LAG", in the 
 beta and the game i have not experienced a single piece of lag. enough said. Check this game out 
 you will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspman45
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  resistance 2 is insomniac games' way of proving how far the Playststion 3 can be pushed. it has 
 HD graphics, large scale conflicts and boss batttles.
  
  resistance 2 is picked up from exactly where the first game left off. Sergeant Nathan Hale is picked 
 up from the chimera tower in England. You are shipped off to Iceland and the first level begins. 
 When you first step out of the plane, you realize that the world is filled with vibrant colors and 
 a lifelike atmosphere, unlike the first game's grey-scaled graphics.
  
  The controls have been changed a bit, but it feels smoother now.
  
  The game, like the first 
 one, has an exotic array of weapons from a sheild deploying chaingun, to a gun that throws saw 
 blades at enemies. Unfortunately, you can only carry 2 weapons so chose wisely.
  
  Later in the game, you fight the leviathan, it is a large chimera beast which is taller than the 
 building you are standing on. This battle is fast paced and epic, but i will not reviel details.
 
  
  The game features many sequences where you move into a dark area and chimera cocoons are all over 
 the place. Most hatch into tall chimera who whack you a lot. These sequences are superb ad cannot 
 be missed.
  
  The online multiplayer can support up to 60 payers, and has no lag issues at all!! which is suprising 
 because the battle is never over.
  
  the online cooperative is fun, and can support 8 players. in the coop, you face class based combat 
 and a seperate storyline.
  
  if you have the money, BUY THIS GAME!!! it is the perfect way to put the XBOX and Wii to shame. 
 it is the best game on PS3 i have ever seen before.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viking_1298
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Spanning throughout the globe in a alternate WWII setting, a virus has broke out turning everyone 
 into hideous mutants. The British military are running out of hope even with the combined forces 
 of the American Army things weren't going exactly as planned. In the aftermath of what the first 
 game left off, you are stranded in the middle of nowhere you were rescued by the Army and was told 
 that the mutants known as the Chimera are invading Iceland. This is where the action heats up. 
 Your plane crashes down and right in front of you is the main boss. But all you have so far is 
 a magnum which isn't gonna do you any justice against that oversized mech. Now along with your 
 partner it's time you show those freaks who the real dominant race is by opening up a can of whoopa** 
 and dishing out the pain. R2 is a great game that has it all (well almost everything) . Insane monsters 
 and boss fights, a whole arsenal at your disposal, great graphics, sound effects, good gameplays. 
 Also there is blood, lots and lots of blood and foul language. But the only thing that's missing 
 are memorable characters because it seems that the main protaginist is always stealing the spotlight. 
 Why not put in a comic relief or a crazed up madman that enjoys the stench of burnt Chimera in 
 the morning. But all the other characters seem very alike despite the great graphics engine. But 
 that just a minor flaw and nothing else. I'm pretty sure you'll be too busy blowing the crap outta 
 Chimera to even notice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveselva
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 was worth the wait. The weak story was its only downside. But the amazing 60-player 
 online just sucks you in. The co-op campaign will also make you want to not drop the controller.
 
  The boss fights. What can be better than fighting a 300-foot tall leviathan. Or a giant Kraken? 
 The titan has been much improved. Remember how the guts were identical? Now its not. Forget gears 
 of war 2 with brumacks. 
  The multiplayer. Stupendous! Sixty player online skirmish mode. And a new co-op campaign totally 
 different than the single player. Three different character classes add to the success of your 
 team and your grey tech. The multiplayer is just innovative.
  The GOOD
  Great multiplayer
  Weapons improved
  Stunning levels
  Intel gives you more depth of the story
 
  Chimera have been motion captured, making it realistic
  Stunning graphics
  Innovative 
  The BAD
  Weak story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jermaki
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 5:38 pm PT
Review:  R2 plays exactly like the first one. The graphics and sounds are exactly the same. In fact everything 
 is exactly the same. To me nothing stands out. The environments are predictable and spin offs of 
 the first. They didn't change a whole lot from it's predecessor.
  The AI is extremely frustrating. Hale will be facing 50 enemies who are all shooting at him. The 
 team is useless; they can't hit crap. Enemies will run past the team to tear Hale to shreds. They 
 have also taken the weapon variety away from Hale. Why? You run through the game with two weapons 
 and a bunch of bombs that you never have a opportunity to use because of the run and gun atmosphere. 
 Prepair to die many times for lack of sufficient artilery. I miss switching weapons to fit the 
 environment. 
  R2 is a good game but not worth the money. I'm glad I rented it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:02 am PT
Review:  "Resistance: Fall of Man" was a solid launch title for the Sony PlayStation 3. It didn't hold up 
 to Mircosoft's competiting sci-fi shooter "Gears of War", but it was a pretty good FPS. More than 
 "Gears", it reminded me of "Call of Duty" meets "Halo". Well, Insomniac Games (the Ratchet and 
 Clank series) must've payed lots of attention to the XBOX 360's first Marcus Fenix game because 
 "Resistance 2" seems to inspired by "Gears". The new variety of creatures are right out of the 
 360's game and the gore is especially there. In addition, the more action-packed cutscenes are 
 very similar to those in "Gears of War".
  
  But wait, this is a "Resistance" game and thankfully, it is a better one than the first. After 
 the masterful games "Dead Space" and "Fallout 3", this sequel holds up with them. It truly is an 
 evolution for the series and will win plenty of new fans. The online portions are truly great with 
 RPG-like co-op modes and a deep mulitiplayer expierence. Even the bombastic single player (despite 
 cheap deaths) is a huge improvement over the last game bringing to mind the greatness of "Halo 
 2"s campaign.
  
  Overall, this is the best Sony PlayStation shooter yet. Last gen, "Killzone" tried to, but failed 
 to make an impression and "Resistance" 1 did manage to be entertaining, but this sequel squashes 
 any of there attempts as king of the PS shooters. Like "Gears of War 2", it has epic battles and 
 very good visuals. If you liked the PS3's "Bioshock" or the upcoming new "Call of Duty", than "Resistance 
 2" will appeal to you. Perhaps it will win over hardcore "Gears" fans as well! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djballer24
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 8, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Some of the levels were huge and you could tell how big the Chimera's ships were. Everything about 
 Resistance 2 is amazing, well almost. Co-op for 2 players offline is really lame. You just start 
 on a level and then play and if you die then you start on a different point of the level. I dont 
 really care for the 3 class thing either. I just want to play. Campaign was awesome. There were 
 so many big battles throught that really gave me a challenge. I was expecting there to be alot 
 more new guns and some kind of grenades. The story was good but i felt like it could have been 
 better. Then towards the end of the game Hale gets these force powers and just blows evreyone up, 
 which is pretty cool. Then he gots of the ship with a few other guys and the crash and Hale and 
 one other soldier survive. Then Hale talks like the Angel and says "THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING." 
 Then the soldier shoots him staight in the head and Hale is dead. I was just like WOW! No way Hale 
 cant die. So im hoping for a great 3rd sequel to come out within the next 2 years. But now that 
 Hale is gone there is really no Main charachter to play the role of humans. Online is pretty fun 
 to. Up to 60 players, thats awesome. Ive had no troubles with lagging. Im kind of dissapointed 
 in the match types though. Theres not too many. Overall Resistance 2 is a very good game. If you 
 dont have it, GO out and BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightmareMan
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  The hype is just that-hype. I see not a single improvement over the first game. Okay, the graphics 
 are nice, oh , thats if you play the single player only campaign. Thats right, the option to play 
 through the story line with a friend in split screen is gone. Now you are relegated to the lame 
 and inexcusable "special campaign" for co-op. In other words, a series of short missions in limited 
 map areas with barely defined goals that leave you cut completely off from any actual story line. 
 This by the way was totally unexpected on my part. The first game had a great story arc and the 
 ability to bring a second player through the whole thing with you was great. Silly me to think 
 they would continue on with that killer feature. No, they just throw that out, leaving the worse 
 than weak "second campaign/special storyh, by the way, the graphics are so subpar they almost hurt 
 to look at. From the environments to the characters making up your big three choices of class, 
 it's ugly enough to make you wish your tv wasnt high def. Maybe the online features kick butt, maybe, 
 but I'm not wqasting anymore time on this turd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MR_MUGGLES
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2008 1:00 am PT
Review:  Game was a great sequel but could have had some of the old chimera in the first one and a few of 
 the old weapons but the new weapons are pretty satisfying. I was disappointed that no vehicle was 
 found in the game so no running over chimera and you can only carry 2 weapons. I also thought the 
 game was going to be a lot longer but still enjoyed the campaign. Online i think is just awesome. 
 You can have great shootouts with the enemy and have your team lay down covering fire while a couple 
 of you flank them. Great for teamwork cant wait for the clan to get this it will be good for clan 
 battles. I think a must buy.
  
  didn't have weapons: dragon, reapers, hailstorm, arc charger, splitter, and the weird ball shooting 
 gun and backlash grenade
  
  didn't have chimera: angels, slipskull, hardfang, leapers, menials, widowmaker, gray jacks and 
 the hounds
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  when you fire up Resistance 2, you may find yourself checking the box to make sure you've got the 
 right disc. It's so different to its predecessor in so many beneficial ways that it's almost an 
 entirely new game. Picking up the story of Nathan Hale, a US soldier fighting back against the 
 mutated Chimera menace in an alternate history where World War II never happened, it wastes no 
 time transporting him from the rubble of Britain, via an unscheduled stop in Iceland, to the new 
 battlefront: America.
  It's traditional, of course, for shooters to showcase their evolution through new enemies and weapons, 
 and Resistance doesn't disappoint on that front. In terms of new firepower, you get a well-balanced 
 selection of human and Chimeran guns to play with, any of which will get you out of a tricky spot. 
 Mainstays such as the Carbine, shotgun and sniper rifle all return, slightly tweaked, while some 
 of the more popular Chimeran weapons also reprise their role. The Bullseye, for shooting around 
 corners, is back along with the Auger, which can shoot through obstacles.
  
  The campaign mode is hefty in size, at least for the genre, offering around ten hours for an averagely 
 skilled player on normal difficulty. It's well-paced, and throws up plenty of varied scenarios 
 to test your mettle. The story feels somewhat perfunctory, though no worse than any of its rivals, 
 and even the predictable excursions inside enemy ships are more bearable than similar levels in 
 other games, even if the sweeping alien architecture may leave you wondering if you're fighting 
 the Chimera or the Covenant. Speaking of which, Resistance 2 is arguably more cohesive than any 
 of Halo's single-players, and while the game never quite matches Bungie's highs, it never plunges 
 to the same depths either. Even in a battle against an alien swarm that some will peg as a Flood 
 rip-off, the challenge is more balanced, the outcome more interesting and the integration into 
 the wider gameplay more satisfying.
  
  Overall, multiplayer is the satisfying other half to a formidable package, and Resistance 2 is 
 precisely the sort of exclusive game that the PS3 needs. Improving tenfold on its predecessor in 
 almost every area, it not only belongs on the shopping list of existing Resistance fans, but those 
 who were underwhelmed with the original will also want to check it out, and then fight for it on 
 the internet. It's the way of the warrior.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Resistance208
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  I just finished the single player mode and it was so fun. The graphics, areas, weapons, and enemies. 
 The story mode is about 10 hours give or take a hour or 2. 10 hours is a lot but i wished it was 
 more like 20 that is suffcient. After beating the single player is that i can't wait to see what 
 happens in number 3! And they are bringing out a number three they said but haven't given any information.
 
  I played the coopertive and it was 10 times better than before. The levels are different from 
 the story line so it will have more new things to see. In coopertive the enemies are a lot stronger. 
 You can play with offline with your friends or go online and join a game that already started so 
 you can do co op with out even having friends with the game!!!
  The good for this game is that it has good graphics, great gameplay, awesome weapons, lots of new 
 enemies, better levels, great AI, awesome ending. All i will say about the ending is that its somewhat 
 like the first ending where they just finish with him walking but this time it wants you to get 
 number 3 even more.
  The only problems with the single player is there are a lot of glitches and the grenades could 
 be better. Like when you try to throw a grenade it goes too far and then it doesn't blow up. Thats 
 about it.
  
  Single player- 9.7
  Gameplay-10
  Story-9.9
  Online-10
  Graphics-9.7
  Learning time- about 30 minutes
  Overall- 9.8 - 9.9 (not an average)
  Thanks for reading and 
 vote this was helpful please!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killer3450
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  As far as things you'll be getting used to that weren't in the last game, thats a whole other story. 
 you no longer move at blistering speeds at all times. You move at a steady fast walk pace, until 
 you press the sprint button. Its actually more of a run button. You can hold it down for however 
 long you want. it isn't like call of duty were your out of shape guy loses energy in 3 seconds. 
 You can run forever in this game. This adds a whole other depth to multiplayer. in the first game, 
 all you had to do was constantly run and that was enough to dodge enemy fire. Now, you must stop 
 sprinting to shoot, and also, you must AIM to hit anything. Shooting from the hip isn't good enough 
 any more. thats right, you have to stop running to shoot, and you also have to aim down sights 
 to guarantee you'll hit anyone. It helps to balance out the game more, and feels much more familiar 
 and refined.
  You can now only hold 2 weapons at a time. No more holding 9 guns at once, trying to shuffle through 
 them quick enough to get back to the fight. in single player, this makes choosing what weapons 
 to carry an actual element in the game. In multiplayer, it helps to balance out not having to go 
 to the gun selecting pop up while getting shot at, and it also allows for more fair weapon choice 
 situations. Also whenever you melee, you actually move forward a little bit. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: veggie530
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  Good things about game:
  
  Great single player campaign, but it is relatively short. I beat it in about 6 hours and found 
 all but one intel, and you will probably be interested in beating it twice if you want to try other 
 difficulties.
  
  Multiplayer (online) is fantastic. It's intuitive, fun, and addicting.
  
  The story, although GS says is not that great, I think is wonderful. It isn't highly in depth 
 but there is a connection to Hale that is unparallel given that his character has never been deeply 
 developed. Hale's a no-nonsense Chimeran killer and that's it, which can be good or bad according 
 to the gamer. The other characters are not developed much either, but this isn't an RPG -- it's 
 an FPS so I think the story matches fine.
  
  Bad things about the game:
  
  Split screen is horrid. Player 2 can't save his progress and when you guys die you get kicked back 
 to the main menu. Yawn!
  
  Somewhat short campaign, buying it may be unnecessary if online MP isn't in your agenda.
  
 
  Overall, the sound/graphics/controls aspect of the game are great. The graphics are a big step-up 
 from R: FOM and the controls/sound remain awesome. I just wish the single player campaign was co-op, 
 then this game would probably be a 10/10!
  
  Sorry for the short review without much meat here, but these are the essentials. 9.2/10 for me, 
 worth a buy if you plan on playing the online extensively -- worth renting if you just want to 
 play the campaign. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Skiggy80
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 10:44 am PT
Review:  Look off the record, this game brings a lot of action to the table. However, I am not overly impressed 
 with it. It feels very much similar to the old Resistance with new environments. Graphics are FAR 
 from stellar. I like bog enemies and this game is full of them. The online is ok. If you have the 
 choice between this game and Gears of War 2, go with Gears of War 2. This is like a challenge in 
 football, there is not enough new material to go gaga over this game.
  
  I like it but I am definitely not amazed by it. I just thought the graphics were going to be a 
 lot better than the first Resistance. Please dont take my review as saying this game is terrible, 
 as you can see I rated it an 8.0 which I think is a more than fair rating. The co-op could be better. 
 There should be a lot more multiplayer options like Gears 2. Its obvious the developers of this 
 game took a lot from Gears 1. The bosses are amazing but just fall short to being great. They are 
 too easy, its like playing God of War. Good game, definitely not the best! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan274
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is not one game. Not only does it have the increadibly satisfiing campaign but enough 
 multiplayer to make you reflect on all those hours with CoD4 were a waste of time. 
  So lets start with the campaign. The story is nothing amazing. It has a pretty badass ending and 
 is interesting enough but after your 10 hour playthrough it feels like the game just, ends. Will 
 there be a Resistance 3? Yes, and it will be massive. The scale in the game is something that no 
 gamer will forget. You will fight bosses bigger than skyscrapers and, though they don't always 
 present a challenge as big as they really are, they will intimidate you and make you feel overwhelmed. 
 The fact that you can interact with these giant monsters makes you also feel alot more powerful. 
 Ofcourse your not just fighting bosses. You'll be fighting your genaric hybrids (from Fall of Man) , 
 more advanced hybrids that hold stronger guns and armour, some crazy naked enemies that charge 
 at you (called Grims) , and many more. You will also be finding intel throughout the campaign which 
 are interesting to read and supply a good background of what is going on. Ofcourse, graphics are 
 phenominal and all the chimera you fight are very well done. The game also places enemies in spots 
 that feel right and memorable. I still remember shooting enemies off cars in Chicago. With the 
 graphics, scale, and even enemy placement, make the game feel just right. 
  Although the campaign is great it doesn't separate the game from the other shooters out there. 
 What does is the Co-op. Now if you've been following the game you know all about it. You play seperate 
 story (no cutscenes) with 7 friends online through a level. There are 6 or 7 levels to choose from 
 all different from the campaign and large in scale. There are from 9-12 intel documents in each 
 level and each time you complete the level, you get an intel. There are also 3 classes, a medic 
 (heals the group) Spec ops. (supply the group with ammo) and soldiers (Who have a sheild.) All 
 groups must work together and teamwork is essential (go buy a mic!!!) . What is really amazing is 
 the game puts you in different parts depending on how good your team is. If your group is skilled 
 you may need to clear a museum but if you work poorly together then you may clear a large room 
 from grims. The mode is alot of fun and everyone takes it seriousely to have a good time. You'll 
 spend hundreds of hours in this one mode.
  Finally we have competitive which supports up to 60 players a game. This has your regular deathmatch, 
 and CTF you'd normally get in an online FPS and skirmish. Skirmish has you and your squad of 5 
 completing specific objectives for points. Its a lot of fun and it doen't feel frustrating if you 
 die. Competitive (besides skirmish) is nothing new or amazing so there is no need to review it 
 any farther. Go out and buy it!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckJazz
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  First:
  The graphics. Red shifted, comic-book look is just plain ugly to me. Too harsh, and the details 
 get lost in the quagmire. 
  
  Second: 
  The graphics again. The frame rate, and/or rendering resolution when moving/turning quickly, is 
 poor. Resistance 1 was the first 1P shooter I was ever able to play. Now I know what causes nasuea 
 when playing 1P's, and R2 gets me a bit ill. 
  
  Third:
  The gameplay. I absolutely HATE games that lead you by the nose througout the entire game. The 
 entire story is prescripted. It feels like the player is more of a spectator, along for the ride. 
 
  
  It kills me to say anything negative about Insomniac and the Resistance series, but this game just 
 in not worth the time that it will take to play it. Especially when there's so many other outstanding 
 games available to play. Fallout 3, Bio Shock, and hopefully Call of Duty 5. Call of duty 4 was 
 another of those games that helped me identify 1P nausea problems. It's engine is smooth and clean, 
 and I can play for hours without any nausea at all. 
  
  So, I will still be playing lots of Resistance, but it will be R1, online mostly. 
  
  Regarding 
 R2's online play, the Co-op mode is great. And the maps are good as well, but R1 is superior.
 
  These are just my opinions of course, and everyone has their own likes and dislikes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imthemoviebuff
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 11:07 pm PT
Review:  I never played a whole lot of the first Resistance, but I just got a PS3 recently and was excited 
 when I heard about the release of this highly-anticipated sequel. Of all the games I have bought 
 so far for it (Spiderman: Web of Shadows, Motorstorm: Pacific Rift, and this) , this is by far the 
 most addicting of the bunch. I can sit on it and play for HOURS! I bought it the night it came 
 out and haven't stopped playing it since.
  
  The campaign mode is so well done from what I have played so far with great graphics and gameplay. 
 The online mode is a whole different can of worms and is highly addicting and keeps me going back 
 for more every time! There are a variety of different types of online mode, each uniquely and well-crafted. 
 And all of the levels are well-made and a pleasure to explore with just the right amount of land 
 space and object placement. This game will surely leave you wanting more and definitely lived up 
 to the hype! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CDD_2008
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:33 pm PT
Review:  compared to the first resistance this by far is the superior title, however i felt that a few things 
 really took away from the overall game. the resistance franchize has a rich storyline that is very 
 attractive and compelling hooking you right off the bat. however the ending is extremely bleak, 
 and disappointing, which really leaves you with a bitter feeling (out of respect i wont spoil it) . 
 
  my other complaint is the excessive dying. even on the easiest difficulty i died a million times, 
 which just frustrates the hell out of me.
  what i really like was the weapon variety and the online features that the game has. 60 player 
 online is just intense as hell which gives the game some replay value. I can respect why people 
 really like this game but due to personal preferences im giving this game only a above average 
 score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redcloud63
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 6, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  All those people that are rating this game are either retarded or xbox 360 fanboys. This game is 
 an absolute buy for any ps3 owner. It's just an amazing game ,out of all the things in the game 
 there's not one thing I didn't like. The online co-op is just AMAZING and 60 player online battles. 
 WOW! Im telling everbody now, that even if you didn't like the first resistance this game has changed. 
 It has ore of a shooter feel to it and insomiac hit a home run this time on this game. AMAZING 
 DEFINITE BUY trust me if you buy this game you will love it, it will be a game you play for a very 
 very very long time, you should not pass up this great game. the single player campaign is also 
 a bunch of fun. Fighting the big bosses are ablast and I even believe this game is etter than Gears2. 
 I don't know why anyone in the world would give this game lower than a 9.0. It's just soooooooooooooooooo 
 addictive
  
  THANK YOU INSOMIAC 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lostlynx17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  This is a amazing game and is a sure by for the holiday season. Every aspect of this game has been 
 upgraded and advanced from it's original. Something that dosen't happen in most sequels. The guns 
 have been upgraded in almost every way ( besides the M5A2 CABINE sorry i like the older one) . The 
 biggest improvements was propbably the bullseye. In the old game it seemed like the only way to 
 get a kill safely knowing you would knock enough laser in some punk ass kid was to use the secondary 
 fire and shoot. Now though the accuracy of the gun has been increased be probably half. Giving 
 the weapon a much bigger advantage. Howeverstill every weapon has it's advantage. The marksman 
 (burst rifle) is very strong with good accuracy but a short clip. The auger still lets you shoot 
 threw walls and Now to the story. The story is extremly good except for the ending which i will 
 not spoil. So now to the online. For the biggest news I am pleased to tell you that there is no 
 lag online. Something that I really wasn't expecting but yes it is true. Another thing is the Maps 
 the maps are HUGE in every aspect of the word. It is deffinetly big enough for 60 people. Even 
 when your all close together you will still have a huge area. The funnest part of this is I remember 
 me and my team were literally in a circle and the other team was charging at us and we were just 
 murdering them. It was some of the funnest online I have ever played. So all and all the online 
 is great with huge maps and no lag. I haven't seen any glitched aeras either like call of duty 
 4 but I am pretty sure there are and I just didn't notice. Graphically it is 100x better than resistence 
 one and is very very VERY colorful. Another very detail thing is the fore. You WILL and I ain't 
 joking here You will see large instants, brains, kidneys, lungs, and much more come out of bodies. 
 It is very detail in every way graphically. So in the end this is a great game that just about 
 smokes the old game in almost every way. It's a must buy this holiday season. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  So I got the Special Edition R2 on Tuesday at midnight, and just beat the game about 2 hours ago, 
 and this is one heck of a game. Being a huge Resistance fan, I was really hoping to see the second 
 one do everything the first one did, but better. Well, I was wrong, to a point. I have played through 
 the RFOM campaign 28 times, but I honestly. thing I will only be playing through R2's campaign 
 once. Now, I love R2, but it just doesnt give me the same feel I had when I was playing RFOM. The 
 guns are great, the enemies look amazing, its the overall places where the battle takes place, 
 and a huge issue with me, I want the British Girl commentary, not the cutscenes. If i were to play 
 this game without ever playing the first Resistance, I would be blown out of the water, this game 
 feels great, looks great, and is a very solid game, I just dont feel like this is a sequel. I am 
 a little disappointed in Insomniac for keeping some of the things that made the first one so amazing. 
 A quick note on the online, its great, although I am not a fan at all of the maps, so Im hoping 
 Insomniac will give us either a map pack of the best maps from RFOM for a price, or free. 
  
  Overall, its a game you cant miss out on, even if you didnt play the first. Quite frankly, 
 your better off playing this if you havent played the first. I love the game to death, its just 
 not the same feeling I got from the 1st one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctmab
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:36 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  Fanatastic Singleplayer Action  Addicting 
  Multiplayer Modes  Replayability
  &nbsp;
  The Bad
  Lack of Character Development
  
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Resistance 2 is a must buy game for any PS3 owner. The game boasts better graphics, game play, 
 and (gargantuan) bosses then it's predecessor. Resistance 2 fixes and improves any downsides to 
 Resistance: Fall of Man.
  
  The campaign is a blast to play. Hordes of far more aggressive Chimera charge at you, and sometimes, 
 even run away in terror from you. The boss battles are a nice change of pace, and can really offer 
 a challenge. The storyline its self is a bit weak, and suffers from poor character development 
 and motivations. However, its still enjoyable to watch, but it is not as good as Resistance: Fall 
 of Man. Resistance 2 does not feature the weapon wheel like in its predecessor, instead only allows 
 you to carry two weapons at once in a Halo/Call of Duty-esque fashion. However, the other weapons 
 are strategically placed in levels to help you get through sections. 
  
  While there is no true storyline to the 8-player-cooperative mode, its still just plain fun to 
 play. There are 3 classes that you can choose from, respectively, Soldier, Medic and Scout. The 
 solider is the foundation of your squad, they have more health they any other class, and can deploy 
 a shield as they mow down enemies with the mini gun. The medical drains health from enemies (with 
 a weapon that is strangely reminiscent of Team Fortress 2) and can charge their weapon to give 
 health back to the other players. As they fire their primary weapon, they are healed. The scout 
 provides ammo to the two other classes, and can stand back, and take out foes with a Chimera burst 
 sniper rifle. 
  
  Competitive matches with 60 players are not as chaotic as one might think, in fact they are very 
 organized. The maps give more then enough room, and do not feel as if you are cramped into a small 
 area. Both competitive and cooperative feature detailed stat tracking systems, with a great ranking 
 system making for plenty of replayability.
  
  The graphics are far from those of Call of Duty 4, but are vastly superior to that of the original. 
 The game features a wider colour palate that strays away from the greys and muddy colours of the 
 original. The pure scale of the game makes the graphics feel even better as you look out over the 
 burning Chicago skyline. 
  
  The weapons feel and sound great. The magnum is just simply satisfying to fire, and the bullets 
 can be exploded by using the alternate fire. Some familiar weapons such as the Bullseye, Carbine, 
 and the Hedgehog granade make a return, but several new weapons have appeared. The before mentioned 
 magnum, the splicer (a weapon that shoots saws gruesomely ripping apart enemies) , and the spider 
 grenade.
  
  At the time of this review, Resistance 2's multiplayer suffered from some annoying splitscreen 
 issues that would cause the game to disconnect from the PlayStation Network when the second player 
 was logged in. There are also some strange errors of both friendly and Enemy AI getting stuck on 
 objects (sometimes even each other) . Some textures are terribly low res (see the pistol in the 
 last cut scene) .
  
  Resistance 2's pros far outweigh its cons. It is a must have game for any PS3 owner, and FPS fan. 
 The multiplayer will keep you and your friends playing for hundreds of hours, and the campaign 
 action will keep you wanting more.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 27, 2009 12:09 pm PT
Review:  I bought R2 the day it dropped & actually had an uneasy feeling about getting it that day. I came 
 home (with my chinese food) , sat down on the bed & started gaming....& so the tale of my journey 
 begins.
  
  
  
  Story- You start out once again as Nathan Hale who is still infected by the chimera & is still 
 fighting against them. Nathan is joined by a new set of soldiers called "Sentinels" which like 
 Nathan are also infected by the chimera. Without spoiling anything you are still taking down towers 
 except now you're in the US. You'll come across some new chimera which may make you jump or make 
 the game a bit more interesting for you.
  
  
  Gameplay- Well, the gameplay is very familiar to R1's except now we only can hold two guns at a 
 time. If you are new to the series, you'll have an easy time getting into the gameplay because 
 it's nothing eyepopingly new. EXCEPT THE 8 PLAYER CO-OP! Now that was a big twist because it's 
 not as if you're playing the same story, you're playing a side story with Nathan leading you over 
 the walkie (Which is hot!) . The multiplayer capture the flag, deathmatch, etc are still here & 
 now the maps are bigger because of the 30vs30 players that can play now. 
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics are better than the first, but not by much. There are some noticebly better 
 details in the enviorment... still... nothing jaw dropping.
  
  
  Music- Like always some of you know that I am a music head, so music plays a part in games to me. 
 I must say the music here wasn't even that noticeable. I honestly can't even break down the music 
 that much because there hardly was any. This is not a bad thing especially since no music in creepy 
 areas = jump out of your pants when chimera jump out of nowhere. 
  
  
  Replay- Thank god for the 8 multiplayer co-op & online multiplayer because the only thing that 
 I would replay the story for would be for more trophies ( & I don't even care for them much) .
 
  
  
  Overall- The game is a step back for me, but still worth a play through. I honestly have not tried 
 the 8player co-op or onlihne multiplayer (except for on the beta) , so I can't really speak on anything 
 much on that subject. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _Brennan_
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is one game that any PS3 owner who is a fan of FPS should own. If you played the first 
 game, you'll see that everything about R2 is just better. Better graphics, better gameplay, better 
 (and bigger) bosses, outstanding and simple controls as well as a good campaign and outstanding 
 multiplayer action. The story isn't as immersive or as good as it probably could have been, but 
 overall it's still a fun experience all the way around. 
  
  As for multiplayer, I've already played both co-op and competitive for over 40 hours, and it's 
 simply amazing. 8 player Co-op is highly addictive and requires great teamwork in order to succeed. 
 In Competitive, you can play Deathmatch, Team deathmatch, skirmish and Core control (basically 
 Capture the flag) You can do all of this, with up to 60 players at once, and absolutely no lag! 
 The multiplayer portion of Resitance 2 alone is worth buying the game. 
  
  The enemies in R2 are more aggressive than in the 1st game. A lot of the time, they'll take cover 
 and fire from a distance. Other times, they'll just charge straight at you. It's relatively easy 
 to take them down when they do this, but you still need to be prepared for any Chimera charging 
 straight at you. 
  
  A new enemy in Resistance 2 that will run at you each time is the Grim. The Grim is kinda like 
 the Menials in R1, except they move fast and are looking to slice you up with their claws. In most 
 cases, they attack in large groups, while other times they will attack in smaller, easier to handle 
 groups. 
  
  Another new enemy is the Chameleon. The Chameleon is capable of killing you with one lunging attack. 
 It is almost completely invisible and will strike with little warning. If you manage to spot them, 
 they're very easy to dispatch, but you have to be quick and take them down immediately. 
  
  Overall, Resistance 2 is a solid FPS and a tremendous sequel to a great PS3 launch title. Everything 
 about R2 is better and more improved over the 1st game. Other than a weak story, this game is absolutely 
 amazing!
  
  Gameplay  10/10
  Graphics  9/10
  Controls  10/10
  Sound  9/10
  MP Replayability  10/10
  SP Replayability - 7/10
  Story  7/10
  Multiplayer  10/10
  Overall 
  9.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiljoy06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  Well i must be honest when i first popped this game into my black box, i was a little apprehensive, 
 im usually not really big into multiplayer these days because of the ppl that dont have lives and 
 memorize every nook and cranny of multiplayer maps so u cant really have fun, but i popped the 
 co-op mode on last night and wooowww what a great time i had!! the single player is fantastic too 
 so far i must say i am glad i spent 63 dollars on this i have never been disappointed by insomniac 
 to date and once again am not i def recommend this to anyone, i am just amazed by the amount of 
 quality in the boss battles in the single player game, and how challenging it is, i dont feel like 
 im breezing thru the game its tough and challenging. and the story is good so far, and the co-op 
 mode is fantastic i had a blast kicking chimera butt last night and look forward to it once again 
 tonight, the amount of enemys on the screen is mind boggling, and the big baddies that pop out 
 give your 7 other squadmates and yourself a run for your money thats for sure, and i love how your 
 rewarded xp for teamwork. definatly go out and buy this sucker!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ido_x
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:39 am PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a great game that has all the essential aspects of a good Sci-Fi shooter. Great 
 weapons, story and fun gameplay makes this game a must have for any PS3 owner. 
  
  You will have a great experience playing the Offline Campaign. A great story that will have you 
 interested to the end. Awesome weapons make the game fun to play since you can think of different 
 ways to get to where you have to go and get the job done.
  
  Dual Online modes makes the game's replay value extremely high. Both modes are extremely challenging 
 and will keep you playing for hours (Just make sure you get some real life workout to burn the 
 calories :D) .
  
  The only downfall in the game was taking out the Cooperative story mode, but the rest of the game 
 makes up for it. 
  
  Every PS3 owner should join the Resistance ASAP! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalarianChemist
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 8, 2008 2:14 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a game that will make the fans of the original very happy. But if you have not 
 played the first game, I highly recommend renting Resistance 2 before buying it. I say that because 
 the game ends very quickly and has virtually no replay value. For example, the game can be beaten 
 very quickly. I beat the game in only 9.5 hours.
  
  The multiplayer mode is virtually identical to the multiplayer mode in the original Resistance 
 game. A larger number of players (up to 60) can play at the same time, but finding 60 people to 
 play with on the Playstation Network is a very difficult thing to do. If you already have Resistance 
 1, you aren't going to be missing out on anything.
  
  The biggest disappointment with Resistance 2 is that the game still does not include a true "Co-Op" 
 mode that is based on the single-player Story Campaign mode. This is a big disappointment, because 
 the developers said the reason why the first game didn't include that feature was because it was 
 a launch game, and there wasn't time to include that feature. Resistance 2 obviously is not a launch 
 game, so the lack of features such as a true Co-Op mode is inexcusable, in my opinion.
  
  The new 8-player mode that is often referred to as a "Co-Op" mode is actually more of a "multi-player" 
 mode than a "Co-Op" mode. It is not played in a a true co-op mode that follows the single-player 
 story mode. The 8-player mode is seperate from the single-player campaign and seperate from the 
 60-player mode. It's a nice addition, but it isn't nearly as fun as playing in a true co-op mode 
 based on the story campaign.
  
  I personally bought the first Resistance game strictly because I was told that it was the only 
 decent game available for the Playstation 3 when it launched. But I really wasn't that big of a 
 fan of Resistance.
  
  I decided to rent Resistance 2 before buying it, just to be on the safe side. I'm glad I made that 
 decision, because in just one day I had already beaten Resistance 2. There is virtually no replay 
 value associated with the game. I beat the game in 9.5 hours, and I spent about 4 hours on the 
 new 8-player mode. After that, it was back to playing the multi-player mode that is virtually identical 
 to the first Resistance game. In just that one day I ended up going completely through the game 
 and seeing all of its features.
  
  The sound in the game is virtually identical to the first game. The same thing can be said about 
 the graphics. Actually, the graphics have quite a few glitches with lots of pop-up that reminds 
 me of Daytona USA on the Sega Saturn.
  
  Overall, I'm sure that Resistance 2 will make the fans of the original happy. But, in all honesty, 
 I know there are a lot of people who bought that first Resistance game only because there were 
 so few games available at the launch of the PS3. As a result, I definitely recommend renting Resistance 
 2 before buying it. Lack of Co-Op in a new game like this is unforgivable, because it completely 
 eliminates an important part of replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elite4Honor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:55 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin... while Resistance Fall of Man sparked most PS3 users interest with its debut into 
 the exclusive department of Sony's console, Resistance 2 follows up with a bang even more dramatic 
 than the first. 
  
  The game as a whole boasts more than enough hours of game play to satisfy most players but what 
 truly makes the game remarkable is the visuals attributed to its design. The maps are immense with 
 vivid color and detail throughout the entire campaign mode as well as co-op and multiplayer. However, 
 despite how great the single player is, the multiplayer/co-op options provide even more as the 
 60 player competitive mode has virtually no lag and wide open environments not lacking in its detail 
 at all. This is nearly heaven compared to the server issues associated with the recent Socom unveiling. 
 
  
  Whats more is the co-op campaign objective style mode pits 2-8 of your best online buddies up against 
 another round of chimera invasion with unlockable content, leveling, and a robust sense of teamwork 
 where it is essential for the group to work together in order to complete the objectives and enhance 
 your own character.
  
  All in all Insomniac definitely put their best foot forward with this sequel and I hope to see 
 more projects like this one coming from them if the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valcrist09
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 11:47 pm PT
Review:  I found resistance 2 to be a truely amazing game, it was all what i have hoped for! Who ever owns 
 a PS3 and enjoys FPSs, def should pick up this game. Some people out there have given it a hard 
 rating and i dont agree with it. The story was fine, it was a little weak but good enough for me 
 not to dislike the game at all.. The game was very smooth, great envirements, epic bosses, I mean 
 epic!! the gameplay was fast and flowed nicely.. The 60 player multi is truely amazing, no lag, 
 huge envirements, great team based combat!! probably one of the best multiplayer games ive played 
 in awhile... The online coop is fantasic, i loved the alternate story you get when playing coop 
 too. Over all this is a fantasic game!!
  
  Sound - 10
  AI - 8 
  Story - 7.5
  Graphics - 10
  Gameplay - 10
  Over All Funfactor and lasting appeal - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  This is an add-on to my original review. I forgot to mention that I really have no idea why so 
 many of the "foot soldier" type of enemies can kill the main player with just one hit while the 
 bosses don't even have that much power. That makes no sense at all. That reminds me of the old 
 Contra type days. I'm really trying to like this game but I just can't seem to give it more than 
 a 7.5. - Just my opinion.
  
  I have to admit that although this game is okay, I just don't like it as much as RFOM. I have played 
 the original multiple times. What kept drawing me and my brother back to it was the fact that we 
 could go through the main storyline/campaign together. I don't understand why they would remove 
 this mode from the game. So, my brother and I are stuck with having to switch the controller every 
 once in a while so both of us can watch the story.
  
  Graphics: 7.0 - Very large enemies and sets but the graphics seem scaled down from RFOM to allow 
 for such large enemies. These almost looked like PS2 graphics. I want games to look "nextgen".
 
  
  Sounds: 10.0 - Outstanding music and sound all around. Makes you feel like you're actually apart 
 of the environments.
  
  AI: 5.0 - Every stage has enemies that do nothing but come after the main player even if there's 
 somebody with you. Also, they don't fight smart like they did in RFOM. For example, they stay right 
 in front of you and fire. In RFOM they actually hid so you didn't always have a free shot. Chimera 
 would also try to surround you. In R2, the Chimera just seem dumbed down a little.
  
  Gameplay: 8.0 - I don't like only having access to two guns in the main campaign mode. It would 
 be fine for online play but for a main campaign it seems useless. There were also a lot of cheap 
 deaths in this game. Some enemies are too strong while others are too weak. Nothing in between.
 
  
  Online Play ??? - From what I've heard it's great but I haven't had much of a chance to play. I'll 
 write more later on that.
  
  Overall: 7.5 - I think the creators of this game tried to turn a run-and-gun game into a stategic 
 FPS. It just didn't work for me. Why change what already works for you. This game seems like just 
 another FPS that I will trade in once I beat it. Meanwhile I'll keep RFOM until DVD's are no longer 
 used as a media. Compared to RFOM, I just didn't get that same 'wow' feeling. I'm glad everybody 
 else likes it but COD: World at War will probably blow this game away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolltide101x
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  resistance 2 is one of the most impressive games i have ever seen it gameplay is amazing and the 
 AI on both sides are simply remarkable. It sounds wonderful and it keeps you interested the whole 
 way never gets boring what so ever the only 2 drawbacks to the game is that its graphics are not 
 quite what i would have hoped for and the story is not as interesting as the first one it makes 
 up for it in alot of other ways though 60 player online is remakably good this is a game you do 
 not want to miss see you playing hope fully im dynastywarior101x on psn
  
  it picks up where the other left off as far as the story its gameplay is similar they have tweaked 
 alot of resistance 1 problems out in resistance 2 i love the new system they have for online in 
 which letting you pick the gun you start with while playing online also the coop is amazing it 
 is alot of fun with 8 other people it is also fairly challanging but it makes you fell good when 
 you beat it i just love the game it is a MUST BUY 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paul2005
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Wow the game is awfully fun I got it on Nov.5. I wasnt so hyped for the game intul i got it i thought 
 the 60 player would be ruind but it is perfect. With no lag which suprises me alot. the 8 player 
 online coop is the best coop ive ever seen but only 3 classes though. The games graphics sometime 
 is bad with bad pop up textures. If this game is bad wow i would get angry cause now im broke from 
 all the other games. and this one is the best up to now its simply amazing. Well now you are wondering 
 about the 1st single player story. well it is awesome like heck. I usually get all the trophies 
 and stop playing it a bit. but not this game im going to play it alllll day  
 the game trust me k back of playing resistance 
 
  
  Graphics:9.5
  Gameplay:10
  Online:10
  Presentation:10
  Story:9.3
  Results equal to=9.7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cant-Get-Right
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:12 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 has many unique elements.
  Gotta love the fact that 8 player coop is fun and tons of replay value. The fact that every level 
 is randomized makes it fresh and with class (soldier, medic, spec ops) levelization, this is a 
 major part of R2.
  Although the graphics may seem rough, the backround, ambiance, and the shear number of enemies 
 coming at you make up for it. 
  Now i know people would think that 60 players in match equals one thing, LLLAAAGGG.
  RESISTANCE 
 2 RUNS ON A DEDICATED SERVER WITH ZERO LAG! People who played the beta know that this game has 
 no lag to it.
  The 60 player online experience is great and steps up the bar for console multiplayer.
  Plus 
 with over 420 hours of gameplay ( stated in an IG graph on myresistance. net) , Resistance 2 could 
 be the 2008 GOTY. This will be a game that defines the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOOSEbeast
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  it was awesome how is started exacty where it left off... no health bar this time... they use the 
 goldeneye method with blood on the side of the screen... new features like the whole trophy thing 
 is used... just like achievements for xbox... nice suprise... people look awesome and gameplay 
 is just like the first game, very good... i like the new gun called the magnum, blow stuff up with 
 the bullets... iv only seen a few guns so far but from what i can see same guns as first plus others... 
 chimera finally shoot u and can hit u.. from the first game u could dodge bullets basically... 
 this game is definatly harder then the first... alot more big things to kill, not just same chimera... thats 
 prolly the best thing because in the first game it got very repetitive of shooting the same things 
 over and over, then they got bigger and shot them, then they got small again and shot them somemore... 
 this one has a lot more variations of monsters... plus it is in the USA so im happy bout that... 
 maybe they will stop by my town ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonAscended
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I really like the weapons, the classes, the exp system, and the special abilities, but when you 
 and a friend are constantly being overwhelmed by Chimera, due to the limit of 2 players in offline 
 co-op) it just ain't good enough. I'm sure once the servers are working properly it will be incredibly 
 fun, but offline player should be near as good. On the positive side, basic gameplay is incredible. 
 When you're mowing down enemies with the pheonix while your buddy covers you with his shield there 
 is no better feeling. And the constant exp coming in as you rack up kills gives you a good sense 
 of accomplishment and builds your anticipation for better firepower. Also, the 60 player online 
 games should be freakin' awesome, so you can always look forward to that. So, overall it's pretty 
 good, but still disappointing enough to say something. Someone, please, make a 4 player co-op for 
 one system! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: min22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:54 pm PT
Review:  This game does get rid of some of the features that I like such as the 4 chambered health bar, 
 which it swaps out for Call of Duty style red screen. Also the game makes you only carry 2 weapons 
 at a time instead of the crap load you could carry in the last game. However the new guns are crazy 
 like the splicer that can cut limbs and heads of with saw blades that you through at them or double 
 as a chainsaw like gears of War. As mentioned before the magnum aka pistol fires exploding rounds 
 that you can detonate if the bullet alone doesn't kill what you shoot. The gore has been ramped 
 up do I care not really but if you hate seeing disembodyied heads or chunks of giant monsters then 
 this game is not for you. The campaign is about ten hours long and will change players even on 
 medium difficulty especially on the last two levels. The online is amazing with eight player coop 
 and 60 player competative. This game is solid not to much wrong with it. Overall a great buy if 
 you are looking for a great FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveKishi
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  The game starts out with Nathan Hale in Iceland, where the ending of the first game left off. Insomniac 
 improved the level of detail in the opening scene when compared to the ending of the fist installment, 
 that is where I noticed some of the fist changes. To not give away any another details that may 
 ruin any future players play through I will stop here. So far the story is no longer told in a 
 narrative nature but through Nathan Hale himself and of course his leading commanders.
  This time around you only can hold two weapons similar to that of Halo or any other similar FPS. 
 You press and hold the [] button to change the weapon with the one in your hand. My favorite weapon 
 that I have used out of the new batch of guns would have to be the phosphorus exploding magnum. 
 I love firing a bullet into a chimera and then pressing the R2 button to explode the bullet.
  I do have one complaint about the game. Insomniac got rid of the co-op campaign mode. On the main 
 menu there is a cooperative and competitive mode which inside those options has multiple player 
 features but the offline mode is not the same.
  Overall the game is an improvement over the first with most areas better than the first, with only 
 the co-op campaign mode being the downer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is a game that tries to spread itself out evenly between multiplayer and single player. 
 It takes some risks which unevenly pay off. Overall the game is not more than the sum of its parts, 
 but there are some parts worth noting.
  
  Resistance 2 continues the story of Nathan Hale from Resistance: Fall of Man. In Resistance the 
 world of an alternate 1950s is under attack from a species known as the Chimera. Nathan Hale, a 
 US soldier, fought the Chimera in RFOM and as a result became infected with a virus that mutates 
 humans into the Chimera. Resistance 2 starts immediately after the the last game. In fact, the 
 opening scene of R2 is the last scene of RFOM. It unfortunately gives little back story of the 
 events in RFOM for those that haven't played it, and that history seems to pay little direct consequence 
 to R2's story except for a few specific characters. The Resistance universe seems to also have 
 had a few tweeks that seems the need to get explained through the game.
  
  The single player campaign is where the game seems to take its most risks. Most of these risks 
 involve the technical side. Resistance strives for grandeur and over the top setpieces. It can 
 be easily imagined that they decided that "bigger is better" and stuck to their guns. Levels have 
 a large sense of scale. Backgrounds are fully rendered and stretch off into the horizon making 
 the player feel a tiny blip in a huge world. Bosses a hundred feet tall loom in the sky over head. 
 Other bosses the size of a small house tromp around launching explosives and toxic gasses.
  
  This large scale comes at some cost. Even though the levels are larger. They become more linear. 
 Part of this is illusion by comparison to the large sense of scale, which brings to realization 
 that the path you are on is simple, narrow, and one directional. Occasionally the game opens up 
 to battles that take place in large open plazas or wide roadways littered with cover and sandbags. 
 These firefights were one of RFOM's strengths, and its nice to see these return. A new and interesting 
 twist to Resistance levels seems to take a horror survival turn. It comes complete with dark flashlight 
 lit hallways, arm swinging ghouls, and passing by radios with an announcer driven insane by the 
 invasion. Level detail also takes a hit with the scale. Some areas feel flat and low poly, as if 
 they were made for the last generation of consoles. Sometimes it was ignored that a beautifully 
 rendered background means nothing if the ground beneath your toes is unimpressive. I want to gripe 
 about the second to last level of the game where you are in buildings that are scaled to make you 
 not feel three feet tall, but ACTUALLY three feet tall. Doorframes stretch 12 feet above your head 
 and you come almost face to face with doorknobs.
  
  Resistance Two gives the stars of its show to its boss fights. Once again scale works against itself 
 here. Gameplay becomes simplified and shoehorned. Alternately some boss fights are actually really 
 cool. One is technically impressive as it involves a morphing swarming blob of something that looks 
 like it stepped out of the demoscene. Luckily there are NO button combination minigames in boss 
 fights, thank god. Also fortunately R2 comes with a wide variety of enemies of all sizes and types. 
 There is a sweet spot of large enemy size with the two-story tall hulks called Titans. Mix in at 
 times smaller Chimera running around a battlefield and these fights are tense and may involve dying 
 on a stupid bold move. The most impressively tense parts of the game, and occasionally frustrating, 
 come from enemies called Grims. These are the arm swinging ghouls that come en-masse, sometimes 
 by the dozens. Sometimes you will wonder if they will ever stop coming, and that works to its benefit 
 here.
  
  The progression of the single player leaves a bit to be desired. The beginning half is over in 
 a couple hours, the last half has some serious meat, then its over with a bang that left me way 
 more frustrated and full of questions than the famous Halo 2 ending. There is also no inclusion 
 of co-op in the single player campaign. Some areas are a little cramped for co-op, and some parts 
 like certain boss fights would be impossible to do co-op, but the majority of the game is ripe 
 for co-op action, especially considering most of that time you are being escorted by numb-nut AI 
 that could care less if you die.
  
  So single player is spotty, but has its good moments. Multiplayer will be for most the important 
 part of this package. There are two modes, cooperative and competitive. Competitive is pretty standard 
 as far as game modes and gameplay. The difference here is the ability to have up to 60 players 
 online on a console. Sometimes this can mean chaotic battles, and may be too much for some. Team 
 deathmatch seams to take a new meaning with this many players. Some uncanny valley is passed and 
 thirty strangers seem to stick together much better than 8. This creates battles that slowly move 
 across the map and feel a little epic and memorable.
  
  Cooperative is the shining gem of this package. To replace having single player campaign co-op, 
 there is eight player online co-op. Cooperative takes eight players, puts them into one of the 
 multiplayer maps and gives them randomly any set of objectives designed specifically for each map. 
 Each objective involves fighting hoards of Chimera of different types and sizes all the way up 
 to the Titan. The damage the Chimera can take also is more than tripled. It can take a few minutes 
 of blanketed gunning to take down some of these creatures.
  
  Cooperative's main feature that gives it fuel is the use of three different classes of characters, 
 Soldiers, Medics, and Spec Ops. Each class brings their own important element to gameplay and teamwork. 
 In fact, it is hard to imagine playing a session successfully that does not have at least one of 
 each class. 
  
  Soldiers are the tanks and protectors. Their main weapon is a damage bringer, but also has a shield 
 that protects from EVERYTHING. This shield not only guards you, but your team mates behind you.
 
  
  Spec Ops is the support class. Main weapon is good for range but doesn't hit hard. Spec Ops important 
 role is ammo giving. This is especially important for the Soldier whose shield energy runs out 
 pretty quick without it. Spec Ops also give out grenades to both the other classes. Online without 
 a good Spec Ops filling their role goes south pretty quick.
  
  The Medic is just what you expect. The nice part of Resistance's Medic is that healing gun used 
 does damage enemies as its saps their strength, and then that gets used to heal your teamates with 
 an AOE blast.
  
  Cooperative is very well balanced between the effectiveness of each class an their importance in 
 their roles. A session with people that play for themselves will never get off the ground, and 
 hence some of the "don't play well with others" type of people should stick to competitive. The 
 rewards of playing with a tight team pay off, especially a session seen all the way to its end 
 can last a half hour easy. It is too bad Resistance doesn't give a quick way to offer partying 
 up with people at the end of a match. Its not impossible, in fact a party system is in place and 
 is effective when used, but a simple one button option at the ending stats screen or a return to 
 a lobby instead of the main menu would have been optimal. There were people I would have liked 
 to add to my friends list or just party up with for the day, but by the end of the match I can't 
 figure out who they were. This might change as I get used to R2 a little more, but it should have 
 been a little easier in the first place. I just still miss the ease it was in Halo 2.
  
  So there you go, my long review. There is a lot to offer in R2, but some of it doesn't hold up 
 or feels like enough. To me this game is worth just cooperative alone, as long in the future Insomniac 
 keeps the cooperative missions new and fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  Resistance 2 is well worth the wait. It has changed a lot since Resistance Fall of Man had come 
 out in 2006. This game brings a challenging story mode, a fun co op mode, and the everlasting online 
 which has been changed greatly. The new online provides way more experience before, allowing experience 
 with every shot you hit some with or when you score a point. The new guns are a great addition 
 making it more selective and more adaptable to the map you are playing on. I love how they managed 
 to put trophies in this game to make it even more fun in story mode, which is now challenging unlike 
 Resistance Fall of Man. They also added the new online co op so you can play with your friends. 
 I don't know if this will be the last Resistance game, but I hope it isn't. By the way, the new 
 chimera are really cheap. How can you put a chimera in there called the Chameleon that can kill 
 you in one hit while showing you where it is in the last two seconds before it strikes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: clarkportmanken
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  compared to the first
  
  graphically: pros- more vibrant colour scheme, slightly higher poly count, higher rez textures. 
 
  cons- aliasing becomes a big issue especially with some of the particle effect which aren't to 
 grand to begin with. also there have been a few times were the game will freeze for a second or 
 two.
  
  sound: improved for sure atmospheric and excellent use of surround sound and great subtle sound 
 design.
  
  gameplay: the one major difference is the use of a two weapon system. this does change strategy 
 a bit as before there were multiple ways of accomplishing things with many weapons now you have 
 to plan ahead. your weapon choices do effect your chances of survival. the game is overall more 
 difficult in the first in that enemies are more powerful and there seems to be more of a focus 
 on the main player where as the first the enemy AI would concetrate somewhat on your team ai. this 
 however is the big dissapointment for me as i personally believe ai the most important part of 
 any game. i want my enemies to act life like and to have a thought process. while the enemies do 
 a good job of following you and attacking you and only you it just becomes old and repetitive at 
 least it did for me. 
  
  online: this is where a bulk of their time seems to have been focused on. there now a class system 
 and i found the co-op to be the best new improvement in the game. each class actually affect the 
 gameplay and you can rank each class individually and it really forces u to work together. 60 player 
 online at once, i found, just causes the game to loose focus and it turns into a free for all type 
 of match where everyone runs around doing there own thing
  
  closing comments: while it doesn't do anything new really, what shooter really does, it is a solid 
 well done shooter. its obvious though that this time around the focus was on the multiplayer and 
 the campaign suffers because of it. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnoSlider-PS3-
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  The single player campaign holds a very compelling story. I find it very difficult to stop playing 
 mainly because I want to see what happens next. Boss fights are cool and reminiscent of great bosses 
 from Contra or God of War. Unfortunatly it feels like the story mode is starting to conclude after 
 about 12 hours of play. Gameplay is above average. Find cover to regenerate health, pop out and 
 clear the area ahead is your standard tactic. Boss fights make you think a little bit more.
  Co-op campaign is great in that it intertwines with the campaign story. The stress on using teamwork 
 is evident and welcomed, making Rambo style victories improbable. Definetly alot of fun playing 
 with friends, not so much with strangers. Strangers tell you to "go to hell" (or the likes) when 
 you suggest tactics, where as friends are more likely to listen and strategize together.
  The competitive multiplayer runs amazingly smooth and is technically superior to any other on line 
 competitive game I've played. 
  Unfortunatly, the comp. multi severly lacks variety and customization to an excruciating fault. 
 The very limited weapons and modes along with adversary tracking and mapping do not allow for multiple 
 types of game play. This is strictly run and gun, shoot like hell, respawn 30 times per match and 
 hope you wind up with more K's than D's. 
  I tried several times to stay far from all of the close quarters gun battles; two enemies unloading 
 many rounds at one another while jumping and taking cover between reloads in a macabre dance of 
 death. While from far off if I try to scope in and kill the enemy, at this time, I squeeze off 
 a round. This alerts the entire enemy team of my presence and puts my name with a red dot on their 
 screens at my location, even if I am well hidden behind lots of cover with walls, trees, cars or 
 any thing else between myself and them. So much for careful stalking and picking inconspicuos shots 
 with a rifle that doesn't offer a silencer, from a soldier with no prone abilities and who apparently 
 can't find cover that is not invisible. Is this a joke? Unfortunatly not. So I change pace and 
 grab a shotgun. I'll get in with the point blank shoot em up action with any one. Unfortunatly, 
 shot gun blasts to the face deplete as much damage from an enemy as a pistol shot in the chest. 
 No matter what weapon you're using or where you hit your target, you will not get a one hit kill 
 (or the option to set that stipulation before the game, like in RFOM) . 
  So if games like Unreal Tournamentand Gears of War employ the ideal format for your taste in competitive 
 multi play, then you will absolutly love this game. If you prefer Vegas2 or Socom for its strategizing 
 and stealth oriented gameplay advantages, I would suggest a concerted rental between yourself and 
 your friends for a long weekend (at least 3 days) of single and co-op campaign action. This is 
 where this game is gold. But hey that's just my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Captain_Kolak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  When I first say this games trailer and all I was hooked. After seeing gameplay and the beta, I 
 was very suspicious of the game. But I took the risk and got it, and within the first 10 min I 
 knew I made a great choice.
  
  Campaign: 
  Pros: Very immersive, I just love the scale of the game. Story is great. Fits in together well, 
 very fluid.
  Cons: Its just not long enough. I feel that I was cheated out of a lot longer campaign (ie like 
 25+ hours long) .
  
  Bottom Line: Could have been a lot longer, but the length is still way above average. So I can't 
 really complain.
  
  Co-Op: 
  Pros: Co-op!!!!!!!!!!! Online AND Split screen. I think I've played a bit too much of this already 
 XD. Very great system, fun, and challenging.
  Cons: Better save system needed, longer?
  
  Bottom Line: An amazing addition that most developers half-ass. Not here
  
  Online:
  Pros: 
 Everything
  Cons: Nothing
  
  Bottom Line: Simply the best 
  
  Graphics/Sounds/Replay: Great, they feel original and add to the games identity. Could have been 
 a tad sharper, but with all the action that is taking place, you won't really have time to realise.
 
  
  
  
  Overall Bottom Line: A must buy for all PS3 owners. (And a reason to get a PS3 if you don't have 
 one yet :P) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fandango_Letho
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  So I beat the game this morning, under 5 hours and 43 minutes of gameplay.
  
  I'm going to concentrate on the single player campaign, and NOT on MP. Why ? Because I didnt like 
 the R1 MP at all. It was too frenetic for me and still, I loved the single player portion of the 
 game to death and still played it until last week.
  
  The game got '' Halo 2'd ''. That's about the best thing I can say to identify it.
  
  While 
 the game's scenary is now vastly improved, they butched down the gameplay on some aspects. You 
 can now only carry two weapons. It means you won't grab any special weapons for casual use, you'll 
 just grab the versatile ones, wich are the assault rifles and something else to fill the blank 
 spot. You won't find ammo at all for the less-comon weapons, lets say the sniper rifles, or the 
 marksman. So you'll be forced to stick with your bullseye most of the time. While in the first 
 title, you could carry everything and have fun with your whole package of weapon without fear. 
 Also, the health regen is now total. Not segment-based like the first game. 
  
  In the MP aspect, I agree that carrying 81234 weapons is stupid. 2 is fine online, but during the 
 main campaing, it's a shame.
  
  The game this time around is much shorter. Gamespot's main R2 page claims the game comes with two 
 '' full '' campaings. I've heard people saying that the online campaing is just some 4 people raid 
 mowing down enemies in the same areas we've visited. It's not bad, but doing that to kill off the 
 longevity of the single player campaing is dull. As for the single player campaing, it's a mixed 
 bag.
  
  R2 is a lot of trial and error. You'll walk into a zone, and then get one hit killed by an invisible 
 enemy. Check. You reload, kill him because you know he's there, and proceed. Next zone, you'll 
 get nuked by two gigantic chimeras. Check, You reload, you grab a more convenient weapon for it. 
 This breaks the game's pacing, and can transform good levels into a pain. The boss fights are superb, 
 and the game really gives you a great sense of scale.
  
  The game's graphics are a good. Just like the first resistance, the backgrounds and enemy design 
 are superb, but the textures left to be desired while looked up close. The game's graphics are 
 vibrant and the framerate is solid. Althought, the gamma of the game is way too dark, and there's 
 no way to adjust it, wich is dumb. Most people have HDTV's these days, and they should take that 
 under consideration. Still, it's not game breaking, but it gives the game a not-needed Doom3 feel.
 
  
  To me it feels like Insomniac went Bungie on their game. They killed the single player longevity 
 to just throw everything in MP. In a way, it's great for competitive players : they got an online 
 game. But for people like me who enjoys sitting on our couch and chill on a good single player 
 game, it's very disapointing.
  
  Based on the single player campaing, I give this game an 8 out of 10. Playing R2 made me want to 
 play R1 again and enjoy the fact that it wasnt a trial-and-error game and that I could actually 
 enjoy the new weapons. I'm not going to keep my copy for long, most likely going to trade it in 
 next week.
  
  
  
  PS : Those who will complain about the fact that I didnt try the online aspect, it's just because 
 I don't like 50 people online fire fights. So I decided to play fair and to not include it in my 
 review, otherwise, if I took it under consideration, i'd lower the score because it moved its roots 
 to the MP side.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkCity732
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  This Game Is Great It Has More Then Enough To Offer In My Book The First Resistance Was Good But 
 It's Not Touching The Sequel What So Ever The Co-Op Mode Is Better In Many Ways First Off It Goes 
 Up To 8 Players Which Is Amazing I Love The Fact That You Have To Rely On Strategy To Win The Mission 
 And Don't Think You Can Go Out Rambo Style For A Split Second Because You Will Become The Target 
 For The Chimera To Have Fun With. Resistance 2 Take's Teamwork To Win In Co-Op Like I Said Before 
 And Online Period Is Great Just To Have So Many Players And No Lag Is Very Cool Trophies Add Extra 
 For All You Addicts Out There And The Graphics Are The Best Yet For The Resistance Franchise Anyone 
 Who Disagrees You Have The Right To Your Own Opinion But I Don't See Any Problems With The Graphics 
 At All If Anything The Graphics Have Evolved From The First. And Last But Not Least The Story Is 
 Great So Far I Can't Wait To See The Ending. There Is So Much More To Come With This Game And I 
 Give It A Solid 10 Out Of 10. Insomniac You Guys Did A Amazing Job With Resistance 2 Glad Your 
 Team Put Time And Effort To Make This Game Perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mavven
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  VALUE 9.0
  A continuation of the launch title franchise, Resistance 2 continues the battle against the Chimera. 
 Lack of a narrator does hamper some of the cohesiveness of the game, however.
  
  GRAPHICS 9.0
  Resistance 2 does have some weird technical and visual glitches, but the sheer 
 number of enemies on screen at once adds to the feeling of a massive battle for humanity.
  
  SOUNDS 9.0
  Otherworldly sounds coupled with great voice acting and ambient effects heighten 
 the action of the game.
  
  GAMEPLAY 9.5
  Single-player is a great experience with an epic scale to the campaign, but adding co-op and competitive 
 play within the game only serves to augment the overall gameplay.
  
  TILT 10
  A fast paced 10 hour single-player campaign with multiple unlockables and difficulty levels are 
 matched with extra multiplayer modes, gameplay options and community features.
  
  OVERALL 9.45
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GOD1984
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  My over all review of Resistance 2 is that it is Amazing the cinamatics are better more colorful 
 and the gameplay is just more intense. this game I give a 9.5 due to that there is no co-op campaign 
 like in the first resistance I waited all day to play it with the girlfriend as we did the first 
 one and beat it through co-op campaign first b4 doing the indivdual thing so that is my ownly down 
 fall of the game but I like the online, the keeping of the states and gaining XP through all your 
 games weather it is Online play against people, online co-op against chimera or offline co-op through 
 the unique story line. I believe that this game is worth the hipe and money to pay for it the one 
 down fall is not bad. I like the trophies and how hard some are to get like in Bioshock they were 
 easy to get but this game harder I think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brucisidro92288
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:31 am PT
Review:  This truly is a great game. The graphics are good and they don't suffer from the massive amounts 
 of action on the screen. I have yet to even see a frame rate hiccup. The campaign mode picks up 
 right where Resistance 1 left off and takes of running from the very beginning. The guns are all 
 unique in some way and have a satisfying sound as they fire. The coop requires you to think through 
 the action and work as a team.
  
  This is a very fun game indeed and it's worth picking up, but like all games there are a few flaws. 
 It could be argued that the coop mode is too challenging for only two players and you may find 
 yourself clamoring for an online 8player coop even if that's not what you had originally wanted. 
 I would have definitely given this a 9.5 despite that, but they took out the 4player split screen 
 mode!!!
  
  That said, I feel this game deserves a rock solid 9, and should definitely be picked up by anyone 
 who owns a PS3 and loves FPS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: brettberes
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 5, 2008 12:35 am PT
Review:  First off, I am a huge fan of RFOM and have been eagerly waiting for this sequel. I still play 
 the original to this day. To my dismay, I found this game to be a huge disappointment mainly b/c 
 it is so different from the original. 
  
  First, you cannot do coop on the campaign mode, and as for multiplayer, I don't know where to begin. 
 The set up is horrendous. You can't even customize the matches to one hit kills, or to types of 
 weapons and bombs. The customizing is very limited. There is no familiarity from RFOM especially 
 with the ocntrols. The feel of the guns, grenades, zoom modes, etc is completely different from 
 the first game. You can't even carry more than 2 weapons, making switching weapons on the fly impossible 
 and hardly any fun. Instead, you have to find weapons and drop what you are carrying in order to 
 pick up anything new. 
  
  My only hope is that they continue to make new map packs for RFOM. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hatak
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  The game does good as a sequel. It brings several things to the table such as improved graphics, 
 new and amazing scenery, and a ton of action.
  
  The games story starts out where you left off from the first game. the story answers some questions 
 from the first game, and also creates many new ones.
  
  The gameplay is much of the same as the first game, but has added some new baddies, new guns, and 
 better scenarios.
  
  Although the game is fun and worth playing, it is also very frustrating and unbalanced! I have 
 been gaming all my life and I am no idiot when it comes to first person shooters. Yet, even as 
 I was playing the casual difficulty, the game was pretty difficult. The enemies were in my opinion 
 much stronger than they were in the first game. And for some weird reason, the creators thought 
 it was a good idea to put 3 Titans in every other room during the game. the Titans could take so 
 much damage that it felt like you were shooting water pistols at them I did not find this very 
 enjoyable!
  
  Although I admit it was difficult, and the only reason I felt compelled to beat the campaign was 
 so I could quit screaming at it, and give it the finger! It is definitely worth giving a try; and 
 if you have a friend you can play coop. Maybe that might balance things out a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nitsujlip
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  i wont go into to much detail because there are plenty of reviews for this game already and soon 
 to come. I just want to start out by saying that this game has hit every single part of what a 
 system essential should be. If you own an Xbox 360, then you need Halo 3, if you own a Wii, then 
 you need super smash bros brawl. If you have PS3, you need resistance 2 ( and mgs4) . This game 
 completely leaves the first one in the dust. They added so much content to this game it isn't even 
 funny.
  
  To start, the only thing that i noticed that was a change between the returning weapons from R1, 
 is that the ROSSMORE (shotgun) is now clip fed. Thats it. The new weapons, (splicer, magnum, wraith, 
 bellock, marksman, phoenix, pulse cannon) are just an amazing assortment of weaponry. In reality, 
 you wont see anything to terribly new as far as innovative, (in fact, the marksman is Exactly like 
 the battle rifle from halo, zooms short range and shoots 3 round bursts. and the pulse cannon is 
 the man cannon except it charges automatically and shoots immediately) but they add a lot to the 
 game play and strategies you'l be implementing. 
  
  As far as things you'll be getting used to that weren't in the last game, thats a whole other story. 
 you no longer move at blistering speeds at all times. You move at a steady fast walk pace, until 
 you press the sprint button. Its actually more of a run button. You can hold it down for however 
 long you want. it isn't like call of duty were your out of shape guy loses energy in 3 seconds. 
 You can run forever in this game. This adds a whole other depth to multiplayer. in the first game, 
 all you had to do was constantly run and that was enough to dodge enemy fire. Now, you must stop 
 sprinting to shoot, and also, you must AIM to hit anything. Shooting from the hip isn't good enough 
 any more. thats right, you have to stop running to shoot, and you also have to aim down sights 
 to guarantee you'll hit anyone. It helps to balance out the game more, and feels much more familiar 
 and refined.
  You can now only hold 2 weapons at a time. No more holding 9 guns at once, trying to shuffle through 
 them quick enough to get back to the fight. in single player, this makes choosing what weapons 
 to carry an actual element in the game. In multiplayer, it helps to balance out not having to go 
 to the gun selecting pop up while getting shot at, and it also allows for more fair weapon choice 
 situations. Also whenever you melee, you actually move forward a little bit. 
  
  Now for just a few things i think insomniac needs to take care of through updates. 
  1. make 
 the weapons more powerful, or make the players weaker. it takes to long to kill someone in multiplayer
 
  2. rethink the respawn timers, let me get back into the action. 
  3. make melee hits more powerful. 
  4. make spike grenades have a further range.
  5. wheres 
 my grenade for the carbine grenade launcher when I'm playing multiplayer? give me one when i respawn, 
 jeez.
  6. in online coop, make everyone play better. (lol)
  7. Maybe to late, but somehow add a tutorial for the classes and berserks for new players. that 
 way, the ones who jump right into games aren't going to feel stupid, and can actually contribute 
 to the team.
  
  In the end, i think Resistance 2 is the go to title when you have friends over. Put aside call 
 of duty for a while, and have some good old sci-fi fun with R2. this is a game you CAN compare 
 to Halo 3. i think in the big picture, this is the closest Anybody is ever going to get to capturing 
 what halo 3 gave 360 players, and giving it to ps3 owners. If this game came out first, Halo would 
 be copying it. Unfortunately, that's not what happened. But believe me when i say that this game 
 will not disappoint, and it will give you hours and hours and hours and hours of fun online well 
 after you beat the single player campaign. 
  GO BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megadoomer7953
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I was thinking that gears of war will beat this game bu actually I prefer Resistance, the campaign 
 is actually pretty good, I liked it but the online was AWESOME!!!.
  
  I can`t stop playing this, and I will never be tired. Well at least untill they make Resistance 
 3.
  
  when I saw the 60 players co-op I was freaked out, but I imagined that it was gong to be just a 
 bigger map with more guy shooting around, but it`s pretty different, the different styles took 
 me to a new level, a better level.
  
  Just to make a conclusion: everything was perfect, I really love it, if you have a PS3, well you 
 know what to do. If you have a 360, well... to bad for you. I don't care what people say, 60 guys 
 online is unique un you will never, NEVER be bored of killing people, especially when you gain 
 experience 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcook42
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  The whole reason I purchased this game, and it's predecessor, was to play through the campaign 
 mode WITH my GF in Co-op mode.
  
  That feature has been removed from this game, sadly.
  
  While there is standard fare online competitive play, and co-op "levels", it is quite simply 
 and disappointingly not the same. The co-op on or offline play includes picking a class of soldier, 
 healer, or scout/ammo dumper. You can gain xp by killing baddies, healing your teammates, or throwing 
 ammo at them. Interesting, but it reminds me in a way of MMO games on the PC. Multiplayer graphics 
 were mediocre at best, ick.
  
  You can find this game for sale on Ebay now, for without the original's co op campaign, this game 
 becomes just another FPS to me.
  
  The 720p graphics have a slight sense of scale, but still look old school when compared to modern 
 PC shooters, or even MGS4 on the ps3.
  
  I'm undecided if I will actually play through the single player campaign, but if I do it will be 
 a lonely trek without my GF to gunsling aliens with me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koopz14
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  After a valiant struggle to stop the Chimera invasion in Europe, mankind must make its last stand 
 on the shores of the United States. In the highly anticipated follow-up to the best-selling PLAYSTATION 
 3 game, Resistance 2 places players in the heroic role of Sgt. Nathan Hale as he struggles against 
 overwhelming odds to defend mankind from the unstoppable Chimera. While wrestling with this insidious 
 war machine, Hale must also battle the virus raging inside of his own body that threatens to transform 
 him into the very creatures he fights against. Powered by Insomniac Games' third-generation PLAYSTATION 
 3 technology, Resistance 2 will deliver unprecedented console gaming breakthroughs with a standalone 
 eight-player, class-based online co-op campaign and 60-player online competitive multiplayer. An 
 epic single-player campaign will feature a new weapons arsenal to combat giant boss encounters 
 that increase the scale of the conflict to new heights. And players will enjoy a new level of community 
 support. wat else do you need in a 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  It's finally here and it's much better than the first and very epic. After playing the game for 
 a couple of hours; you can tell the differences between the first game and this one. First off 
 the game starts off right where you left you being taken by a group called SERPA. These are a group 
 of men that also carry the virus you have and you'll form an elite group to fight against the chimera. 
 
  
  As soon as you start the game you'll jump right into the action your helicopter gets shot down 
 and you'll have to start running from point A to point B; to get you to a secret location to get 
 your virus under control. This is where you'll encounter your first huge chimera beast. Like the 
 ones you've encounter in the first game but much later in the game. Insomniac wastes no time bringing 
 you the pain early in the game. One thing I would love to mention is that the health packs are 
 GONE. Thank god that's one thing I hated from the first game always searching for health packs. 
 So you have regenerating health in the game. Also one thing they elimnated from the first game 
 that I wish they didn't was the fact that you can carry more than 2 guns. You're only limited to 
 carrying 2 at a time so choose wisely. There will be time that you know it's just obviously to 
 change weapons. 
  
  The graphics are a big improvement from the first Resistance. Also the scope of the game is so 
 much better and bigger from the first. You look around and you see the entire city being attack. 
 It feels like this is bigger than you. It's the entire country being attacked by the chimera. 
 
  
  The multiplayer is been a big step up from the first as well up to 60 players online. If you've 
 played the beta like me you'll notice there is no lag at all with 60 players playing against each 
 other. The Maps are huge taken from the campaign. If you're a fan of the first resistance than 
 you'll definitely love this game. If you're fan of the COD4 multiplayer than you'll definitely 
 love to play this game for the online only. Who can you turn down a game with 8 player co-op online? 
 This is a must buy if you own a PS3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  i've only played for about one hour and so far i'm in love. the story picks up at the end of part 
 one. i hate games that jump either forward or backwards (no i'm not thinking about fable) . the controlls 
 are nice and thight. and i think that the game looks better than the first one. Sony realy needs 
 more great games cause the system cant live off mgs or ff. and for the time being resistance is 
 the game that pulls this off. i can not at this point say any thing that this game does great. 
 but i can say that it does not do any thing bad. so if want a game that you can only play on the 
 ps3 then this is it. overall i think that with online play we will be not only playing this game 
 next year but still in love with it. i can not say the same thing for mgs. for me a great is one 
 that you play and replay. i cant get back into mgs. the reason i keep bringing up mgs is because 
 many think of it as the best game for the ps3. if so then resistance is not far off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tompouce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  Wow... there is only one simple way to describe Resistance 2. Amazing! There is no way someone is 
 going to hate this game if he likes shooter. It over past my anticipation that I had about the 
 Insomniac team.
  
  To begin with, I must talk to you about the graphic. Guns, reflexion, nature, bloom effect, water 
 reflexion and movement makes you stop playing just to enjoy how beautiful the graphic can be. 
 
  
  You will also be surprised by how good the gameplay is. You cant be lost because there is always 
 an automatic redirection screen to where you need to go or just a simple spot with a distance indication. 
 
  
  The A. I. in that game is amazing because your allies are actually killing enemies and the enemy 
 doesn't always concentrate their fire at you.
  
  There is always the nice ending of a level with a boss. Ah hhh how nice to kill these big thing 
 with the powerfull gun that is give to you. 
  
  Talking about the guns, the effect of light on them is extremely impressive and there is new weapon 
 much more powerfull then a simple rocket-launcher. 
  
  What stunned me when I played that game is the realism in the blood and gore effect. Resistance 
 2 is much more violent then the previous game with bullet hole on the ennemy and body exploding 
 in peaces that you can see rolling on the floor or splashes on walls and then slide to the bottom 
 of it.
  
  What is also nice in the game is listening to the radio. If you pass by a radio. There is no ennemy 
 around so stop and listen to it. The apocalyptic messages that is give by the show animator from 
 different cities is a nice addition to the game.
  
  There is only one reason why I do not give a 10, campaign does not offer a cooperative option. 
 You can play co-op games but they don't have any story behind it or if there is, I haven't got 
 enough far because after you and your friend dies, there are no restart option. You go back directly 
 to the main screen. 
  
  Also for technical problems, there are no way to adjust brightness in the game and that sucks because 
 the game is dark most of the time and that most of the game these days offer this option. Resistance 
 2 only offers a 720p HDTV option but I can understand this because of the enormous size of the 
 game. But I can assure you the 720p option doesn't shows any difference on a 1080p HDTV. 
  
  My last bad thing is the co-op on the same TV. It sucks, really sucks. There are no way to 
 adjust the split-screen if you want it horizontally or vertically split. It's only horizontal, 
 the graphics are reduce and It's not even in full screen so you have two big black line that cover 
 the quarter of the screen.
  
  I don't know if this problem only concern me, but enough of these disagreement on Resistance 2. 
 It has a powerful campaign and an extraordinary online multiplayer that makes a game that anybody 
 who love FPS game should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angels_Airwaves
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 11:01 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Top notch graphics. One of the best a FPS has seen. The gore is top notch with the wonderful 
 meat effects and blood. The guns, animations of the enemies and the scale of the game is truly 
 outstanding. It will please the eyes of many FPS addicts out there.
  
  Story: The story continues the war between the human and chimeran race. A lot of reviews have been 
 delivering a soft blow to the game criticizing it for not having a narrator in this game like it 
 did with the first. The game continues to follow Sgt. Nathan Hale on his journey to end the war 
 between the two races and save the world. It immerses you further into the game as you are seeing 
 everything in true, live action instead of a narrator talking over flip images of the game.
  
  Gameplay: The game keeps to the oringal FPS formula on this one and that is never a bad thing. 
 The added enemies compared to the first Resistance is just amazing and is the perfect choice and 
 makes for the perfect atmosphere. R2 features a 60 player multiplayer mode and a whole other campaign 
 for up to 8 players. Every mode is extremely fun and addictive and the best part is that there 
 is barely ever any lag. For a free network like the PSN and the size of this game, really.. does 
 the PS3 need to offer online fees? hell no, this is the perfect example as to what the PS3 can 
 pull off with it's online abilities.
  
  Final Verdict: a perfect 10/10. Any PS3 owner should be proud to have this game in it's ever growing 
 library of exclusives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorkatz15
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:34 am PT
Review:  ok my father know someone who wark in scea and he give me the game before his time. in the second 
 he give me the game i run to my ps3 and started the game.
  when the game loading a litlle smile up on my face.
  and whan i see the game after the loading 
 i sad: o-m- fuc*ing g!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  the game look amzing! the light the gun and hail!. after 2 hour in the single i undetued that one 
 of the best game i ever played!!! gta not from me.
  the gameplay amazing! you cant miss it! and the online oh.. the fuc*ing amzing online! lets just 
 say he take cod4. ok:
  sound: 9.6
  graphic: 9.7
  gameplay:.9.9
  online:9.9
  plot:9.9
  9.9=10
  i never give 10 becouse game cant be perfect.
  overall:::::::::::
  
 
  
  9.8!!!!
  amzazing !!! the plot the game play the graphic 
  what can i say....
  xbox user: go to one of yours fraind and play it! and dont just say halo is better. i have xbox 
 to and i played halo 3. of course halo is amazing game but he is not resistance 2!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teknboi912
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I think I liked the first game better. This game does have its new weapons which are cool, and 
 the HUGE boss battles are nice but over way to quick. You can only carry two weapons at a time, 
 so I'm always having to choose hummm should I go with the Bullseye gun and Magnum, or the Machine 
 gun and Magnum. You will run out of amo quick to, I've found myself with no amo and dozens of crazy 
 running Chimerins and i have to either run, or try to hit them with my knife or try to pistol whip 
 20 of them, It does'nt turn out to good. They changed the health to, It just starts to turn red, 
 and I have no idea if im about to die or what, It does regenerate but I'm usually dead before that 
 happens. I liked looking for health in the first game, then I knew just how much health I had left, 
 I'm sure others like this change tho, more like Halos health. Graphics seem to be really good, 
 and the new levels can go on for miles. By the way don't fall in the water, if you do this scary 
 fish thing will kill you right away, theres nothing you can do against the fish. Now I only played 
 the story mode, so this review is only for the single player mode. I'm sure the multi player game 
 makes this a better purchase, and co-op mode, but as far as the single player goes I liked the 
 first one better. Maybe I just need to give it more time, but after beating it I was left just 
 kind of shaking my head and wondering, thats it? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asdfghjkl456258
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  this game is mine nominee for GOTY. The Graphics. the bosses are so well done just amazing man. in 
 multyplayer you can have 60 players online,8 players co-op
  just BUY THIS 
  In co-op you have a different levels 
 with more chimera to attack you its just so fun.
  Also their are some really cool new weapons which are so fun to use my favourite is magnum cause 
 when you press R1 to fire you just shot somewhere but when you press R2 button for secondary fire 
 that bullet explode its just so fun. The bosses are also amazing you will have so much fun playing 
 this bosses..................
  there are great.
  oh yeah if you see some textures poin in thats because of scope in the game the bossess are so 
 big I mean you watchd the Leviathan in action right. 
  I just want to say that if you hava a PS3 this is must buy and your gay if you dont buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chenkaiwen
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 4, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  Just finished 3 levels. Very Disappointed. Can only carry 2 weapons, no slow-mo aiming for sniper, 
 no tagging for Bullseye, etc. R2 just became one of millions FPS out there. Insomniac didn't get 
 why R1 was so successful. The characteristics of weapons made R1 so unique. Game is more linear 
 than R1. Carrying only 2 weapons (Most FPS does the same) give player limited freedom to play the 
 game with created way. You have to follow designers' strategy to accomplish certain tasks. That 
 made game less addictive. Graphic improved a lot, but not very impressive. Weapons get more powerful, 
 that's good. No health bar, that I like. A couples of new weapons showed up, but it seems that 
 they are only for the specific occasions. I am constantly debating which weapon I should drop because 
 I can only carry two. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigsolid88
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:46 am PT
Review:  Resistance is best of years. 8 co-op online and 60 players online. It pretty insane. Best of PS3 
 game in 2008!!!! Xbox360 suck!!!!! It have 500 foot boss is pretty amaze insane!!!!!! it will help 
 sony company go up. Hope miscosoft go down!!!! Nate is silence and change apperance is just perfect. 
 Sadly, Nate have 24 hours to live. what happen to future on resistance? what next? Resistance 2 
 is last game? uhhhhh no, because resistance make lot of money. u will see. I bet resistance sold 
 three millions over than resistance part 1. Online is very highly addictive since call of duty 
 4. Sorry about that!!!!! I dont't know which best games of year like GTA 4 Metal Gear Solid 4, 
 Fallout, Bioshock, Littlebigplanet, and other hot games. It not easy for everyone. I wish they 
 will make a reistance 3 on future and also rachet and clank next games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweetstyle
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:38 am PT
Review:  Most notable things in Resistance 2.
  (1) - New Weapons.
  (2) - Offline Multiplayer.
  (3) - Online Multiplayer.
  (4) - Co-op offline campaigns.
  (5) - Co-op Online Campaigns.
 
  (6) - Storyline is very good.
  (7) - Little bit scary game.
  (8) - Good environment.
  (9) - Good graphics.
  (10) - Good Maps.
  (11) - Boss and Enemies are tough to beat.
  (12) 
 - Collecting skill points and Unlocking things.
  (13) - Fighting between Human and Chimeran is a good line of war.
  Its all about Resistance 2 
 hope you like my comments.
  Collector's Edition.
  The collector's edition, which will include a 
  (1) - Hardcover art book.
  (2) - Special cover 
 art.
  (3) - An in-game weapon skin.
  Also included is a bonus Blu Ray disc with a behind-the-scenes featurette, a video detailing the 
 game's alternate historical timeline, and a digital copy of issue #0 of the Resistance comic book 
 from DC Comics subsidiary Wildstorm.
  But the bad thing is This collector's edition is only for residents of North America not worldwide.
 
  (4) - An action figure of the game's alien-human hybrid race, the Chimera 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSYB0RG1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  When INSOMNIAC was saying the game was upped in scale, they weren't kidding, these game is 10x 
 better than the first, not only are the are graphics simply gorgeous, but the controls, and animations 
 are so much more fluid than the first.
  
  
  You start the game off EXACTLY when number one ended, and right off the bat you get a sense of 
 purpose, and a sense of scale, you first mission is to take down 100 foot+ tall robot called a 
 goliath, the enemies have improved A. I. the water seems so real. It's all so EPIC!
  
  Nathan Hale actually talks now, which makes him even more badass than before. After the first mission 
 the game jumps ahead 2 years to where the Chimaira have completely over taken entire cities, and 
 giant alien chips are flying overhead firing down upon the human city. 
  
  The graphics are is just icing on the cake, and if someone said the graphics suck, they clearly 
 were not talking about Resistance 2. If Resistance 1 was a 6 out of 10 in graphics, then R2 is 
 definitely a 10.5 and some scenes even look photorealistic.
  
  
  
  I don't want to give away too much. But I will say, that this game WAS WORTH THE WAIT, and then 
 some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kidzion1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:48 am PT
Review:  RESISTANCE 2 PICKS UP AFTER THE ENDING OF THE FIRST GAME; WITH IMPROVED VISUALS, BAD ASS MONSTERS 
 THAT REACH A SKYSCRAPER AND GREAT SOUND EFFECTS TO MAKE YOU GO TO THE EDGE OF YOUR SEAT WITH THIS 
 SEQUEL OF THE ACCLAIM LAUNCH TITLE RESISTANCE: FALL OF MAN; WITH THE AI UPGRADE AND GREAT LOCATIONS 
 OF OUR DESTROYED 1953 USA CITIES THIS GAMES ITS GREAT ON WHAT IT SHOWS; THE STORY LOOKS LIKE AN 
 ALL SCRIPTED HOLLYWOOD FLICK WHICH YOU KNOW WHEN YOU ARE GOING TO FIGHT A BOSS OR NOT WHICH TO 
 ME IT WASN'T THAT GOOD CAUSE I PREFER THE RANDOM ONES LIKE IN THE FIRST PART, AND MANY WILL SEE 
 AND OBVIOUS NEXT TITLE OF THE STORY RESISTANCE 3 CAUSE THIS ONE WILL ONLY TELL 50% OF THE CHIMERA 
 SPECIES AND THE OTHER 50% ITS THE PROJECT ABRAHAM WHICH NATHAN ITS BEING TESTED ALONG THE GROUP 
 OF SENTINELS; NOW THE SECRET WEAPON OF THIS GAME LIES ON THE CO-OP MODES AND ONLINE MULTI PLAYER 
 WHICH HAS A FEEL OF RPG GROW-UP LEVEL WHICH ITS GREAT TO GET MORE ITEMS AND GADGETS FOR YOUR ONLINE 
 CHARACTER, AS WELL A EXCELLENT SMOOTH RIDE WITH NO LAGS AND AMAZING 60 ONLINE PLAYERS BATTLE OUT 
 TILL THE END; NOW ANOTHER FEATURES THESE GAME ADDS ITS TROPHIES WHICH ITS GREAT TO ALL OF THOSE 
 GAMERS WHO ARE AFTER THAT INCLUDING MYSELF WELL ENJOY RESISTANCE 2 WHICH PROVES THAT PS3 HAS A 
 LONG WAY TO BE MAXED-OUT AND SEE ANY COMING NEWS OF RESISTANCE 3 AFTER RETRIBUTION HITS THE PSP... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziembee
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 12:50 am PT
Review:  Looks to be about an 8 to 12 hour single player game, but with the sheer fun, this alone is worth 
 this games price tag! Furious, non-stop, heart pounding action that tops the first Resistance game 
 in every facet. Now add in the 60 player online action, and this game is simply insane. No lag 
 issues, smooth battles, and incredibly addiction gameplay make the multiplayer something you'll 
 go back again and again! 
  
  Best release of 2008 for the PS3 with the exception of only Little Big Planet which is an entirely 
 different game. 
  
  Sure, it doesn't have as crisp and clear of graphics as some other recent PS3 release games, but 
 the graphics are certainly nothing to frown at. And with top notch game play and fun found here, 
 you'll quickly forget any inadequacies other people watching might notice. 
  
  Don't pass R2 up. Resistance 2 just oozes quality out of every pixel you'll see smoothly flying 
 by on your TV set! It's worth at least double it's price tag, especially if you love relentless 
 and multiplayer action! Best shooter ever for the PS3, period. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
