-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Resident Evil 5
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/residentevil5/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Beautifully detailed graphics and character animations.
 Having a partner enhances the fun and excitement while adding tension.
 Real-time menu system keeps you immersed.
 Plenty to do once you've beaten it.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating hurdles to leap when joining an online game.
 Slow, deliberate movement and gunplay may not appeal to everyone.
 Can't swap weapons with a human teammate online.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 13, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.7, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 2,588 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: Horror Action Adventure
Date: Mar 13, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Resident Evil 5 is a fun and frantic evolution of RE4's breakthrough gameplay and the series' horror 
 themes. 

  Thirteen years ago, Capcom helped revolutionize the action-adventure world with Resident Evil, 
 a game that would define an entirely new genre dubbed "survival horror." In the years that followed, 
 the series continued to build upon the standards set by the first game, until 2005, when Resident 
 Evil 4 radically departed from its predecessors and broke new ground as a more action-oriented 
 game. Resident Evil 5, the latest offering in the long-running series, expands on the action-heavy 
 formula of its forerunner and is built from the ground up to support cooperative gameplay. Though 
 it can no longer be considered a survival horror game, Resident Evil 5 manages to retain and effectively 
 translate the most important aspect of that genre -- tension -- into its new mechanics, crafting a 
 fun, collaborative experience that will keep you on your toes the entire time.  

           Hey Sheva, is there a vet around here? 'Cause these pythons are sick!      

  Ten years 
 after the destruction of Raccoon City, former S. T. A. R. S. Alpha team member Chris Redfield is an 
 agent of the B. S. A. A. This paramilitary anti-bio-organic weapon organization travels the globe 
 to seek out and destroy Umbrella's creations, which have fallen into the hands of terrorists following 
 the collapse of the multinational pharmaceutical company. When Chris gets a tip that a known weapons 
 dealer will be making a big deal in the remote African nation of Kijuju, he heads there to put 
 a stop to it and learn what he can about the mysterious doomsday project known only as Uroboros. 
 Chris is joined by Sheva Alomar, a local B. S. A. A. agent, and together they battle wave after wave 
 of infected villagers, horribly mutated monsters, and even series archnemesis Albert Wesker.  

 
  The core combat mechanics haven't fundamentally changed since Resident Evil 4-- the action still 
 unfolds from an over-the-shoulder perspective, certain battles or cutscenes are accompanied by 
 brief quick time events, and you still have to stop moving to fire your weapon (though you gain 
 a bit more mobility thanks to your newfound ability to walk sideways) . Resident Evil 5's slow movement 
 and gunplay take some time to get used to, and folks expecting a run-and-gun game may find the 
 action too sluggish for their tastes. Fortunately, this slowness isn't really an issue within the 
 game, because enemies are deliberate with their attacks and are better handled with a cool head 
 and steady aim.  

  Regardless of how similar the combat in Resident Evil 5 is to its predecessor, the addition of 
 a second character makes encounters feel quite different. Teamwork is necessary to take down more-powerful 
 enemies and bosses, and having someone there to watch your back goes a long way toward keeping 
 you alive. Furthermore, there have been radical changes to the inventory management system. The 
 immersion-breaking briefcase from the previous game is gone, and enemies no longer politely wait 
 for you to rummage through your things because bringing up your armory doesn't pause the action. 
 At any given time, you can store up to nine items per character, four of which are bound to the 
 directions of the D pad for easy access. This new system works extremely well and successfully 
 conveys a sense of urgency whenever you go through your gear. It's often necessary to trade items 
 with your partner, and keeping track of who has what at all times is crucial, because rummaging 
 through your things while a boss beats on you is painful.  

           It's tough to stay frosty in the sweltering heat, but Chris always manages to keep a cool 
 head.      

  Sheva's artificial intelligence makes her a competent companion, though her degree of skill seems 
 to rely more on her armaments than anything else -- she is extremely good at using burst fire with 
 a machine gun, for example, but tends to waste ammo when equipped with a handgun. That said, at 
 no point does she feel like extra baggage that needs babysitting (unlike some of the series' previous 
 companions) , and she can hold her own in a fight. Sheva really shines when there's someone else 
 controlling her. Resident Evil 5 supports both split-screen and online co-op play through Xbox 
 Live and PlayStation Network, and exploring Kijuju with a friend greatly enhances both the experience 
 and the fun factor. Every game has the potential to go multiplayer, since split-screen is as simple 
 to initiate as hitting Start on a second controller, and other online players can join in on a 
 free-for-all or invite-only basis if your game session is set up to allow this from the get-go. 
     

  Despite these conveniences, there are some frustrating hurdles that need to be leaped over before 
 a partner can begin playing. Co-op isn't drop-in, so if someone joins, gameplay is interrupted 
 and immersion is broken to some degree. For split-screen, this means immediately returning to the 
 main inventory screen to confirm armaments and then restarting from the last checkpoint. With online 
 co-op, it's a bit more troublesome, because the player who joined has to sit on the sidelines until 
 the host either restarts from the last checkpoint or continues on to the next. Another major problem 
 is that players' main inventories are isolated from one another, and though you can trade healing 
 items and ammunition, weapons are off-limits for exchange, making some battles more difficult if 
 you're playing with a less-well-equipped partner.  

           Having a partner around to watch your back is great in case you get grabbed by an enemy. 

  Resident Evil 5 isn't a survival horror game, but that doesn't mean it hasn't learned a great deal 
 from the genre. Tension is the central element of survival horror games, and in the past it has 
 been conveyed by the gloomy settings, the sense of isolation, and the frustratingly clunky camera 
 angles and controls -- all RE5 does differently is convey this feeling through other outlets. Having 
 a partner introduces new types of tension, because you're forced to rely on each other's support, 
 find ways to manage both of your inventories during battles, and cover larger areas since enemies 
 can appear from almost anywhere. Waves of enemies wax and wane with just the right frequency, and 
 while the brightly lit environments make them less scary, they can be tough to deal with because 
 they attack in large numbers and are smarter, faster, and stronger than their counterparts in previous 
 games. Major encounters and boss fights are doled out with excellent pacing, and since you're never 
 sure what to expect around the corner, you have to remain vigilant. The active inventory management 
 system helps keep that anxiety up as well.  

  RE5 is easily one of the most visually stunning games available, and its huge variety of environments 
 are meticulously detailed in every way. There are lots of large, open areas, and youll constantly 
 be on the move through them since there are usually so many enemies. In-game cutscenes are top-notch 
 (though sometimes a bit over the top) , and Chris and Sheva are incredibly well animated, especially 
 their faces. Though the dialogue is often full of the series' trademark goofiness, the voice acting 
 is competent, and when paired with the excellent facial expressions, it breathes a great deal of 
 realism into the characters. Likewise, the fantastic orchestral soundtrack heightens the gameplay 
 with everything from the low-key, ambient tracks that play during downtimes, to the frantic, upbeat 
 songs that accompany the massive boss battles.  

  On the first play-through, Resident Evil 5 lasts about 12 hours, which is considerably shorter 
 than its predecessor. Once you're finished, though, there's still plenty to see and do. There are 
 hidden B. S. A. A. badges scattered throughout most levels to find; you can strive to get better scores 
 or times in each chapter to show off on the online leaderboards; and there are three initial difficulties 
 available with a fourth unlockable. In-game points can be spent on collectible trophies of various 
 characters and enemies, on additional costumes and graphics filters, and on special infinite-ammo 
 versions of guns that you've fully upgraded. Finally, the Mercenaries minigame returns in a format 
 very similar to its last incarnation in Resident Evil 4 but with support for co-op.  

           Sometimes, you need a bit of teamwork to give your partner a boost.      

  Resident 
 Evil 5 successfully builds on the foundation of its predecessor while taking it in a drastically 
 different direction. Having a partner introduces new degrees of gameplay depth and dramatic tension 
 that make the game that much more exciting to play. Though the slow, deliberate movement and shooting 
 may not appeal to everyone, this new sequels frequent large-scale battles and co-op play still 
 offer a fun and exciting adventure.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (172 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: predator_ALEX16
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  This game is great!! the graphics are amazing and it is so immersive. It is not your typical shooter 
 however. The controls are awckward at first but you will get used to it once you beat that first 
 public assembly. The coop is awesome but the game would be perfect with an alternate story where 
 there is only one agent. In single player, your AI partner sheva is a dumb@$$. She will offer great 
 accuracy given any gun but she burns through the ammo so quickly that you wont have any left for 
 your inventory at the end of the mission. She offers little more than a nice butt and company while 
 defeating bosses and hordes majini (the "zombies" of the game) . Overall, great game and i highly 
 recommend it. if you arent sure about it, hit up the demo on PSN and XBL. 
  
  9/10
  
  pros- Lifelike graphics, co-op play, adds on to original RE story, mercenaries 
  
  cons- co-op 
 play, stupid enemies, killiing someone only to find his clone throwing an ax at you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerpoopy
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2009 5:33 am PT
Review:  Review for Re5
  
  Graphics 9.5/10 : The graphics are really stunning in Re5. The glow is great for this game and 
 it looks beautiful when playing on a 42 Inch Tv , although not the best , it really shines . Im 
 not sure what esle to say but the graphics are animated nicely , so are the characters , but Chris 
 looks wierd , like some sort of action figure to me
  
  Controls : 8/10 : Now many people have been syaing that the controls are **** or something like 
 that. But what i believe the main reason for capcom doing that is giving the player more intense 
 action , its like**** im reloading , Oh My god!!!! that chainsaw **** is coming after me!!!! 
 **** faster reload!!!" yeah most probably thats what capcom is giving the controls for.
  
  Gameplay : 8.5/10 : really interesting , close combat looks great and performing co-op combos really 
 looked nice , gunfire is kind of the same as other third person shooters so nothing to say about 
 it , u get the real feel of the gameplay when u get the infinite rocket launcher and unleash hell 
 on those bastards .
  
  Story : 7/10 : Story is kind of wrong , like the ending. SPOILER ALERT* I mean why would a resident 
 evil game have Wesker to die , thats so wrong. His the mastermind of everything , i just hope his 
 not dead or ill screw this game .But the good point of the story is that it looks like a drama 
 , very nice character dialogue 
  
  
  Overall this game is a must own , although the game is not scary , if u want a more scary epic 
 adventure , go with dead space but this game is better becos if the co-op way more stuff to do 
 than dead space. On the hardest difficulty of the game , never play on AI , u will sure die and 
 not complete the story , recommend on infinite rocket launcher and Co-op ^^
  
  Co-op 9/10: Plain fun , u get the real fun of re5 , palying with friends makes the game more interesting 
 , mercernaries mode , chapters in the game , they are the real deal . Co-op makes the game more 
 addictive , Ive played the single player so many times till i get bored so i tried Co-op , and 
 it was damn exciting more intense and helping each other. And most surprising thing for me is that 
 the online is smooth , i thought it will lag like **** but no it does not , unless u have a bad 
 internet connection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greendead
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 20, 2009 3:54 am PT
Review:  STORY:
  You're Chris Redfield, well known player from first Resident Evil game, that goes to Africa to 
 find a man called Irving. Ofcourse there's something wrong in Africa: villagers aren't normal people. 
 They just look like them. Over time your find out, that their main objective is to kill you. Through 
 the game, you will find your old buddy expecting you. Ofcourse, buddy from the bad side.
  Resident Evil 5 gives you an outstanding story, which keeps you on your chair (or wherever you 
 sit on) It has some OMFG moments. It's not the best story, because during the game it's to OBVIOUS 
 who's who. But if you're stupid enough and don't know, who the masked person is, than this story 
 will be more than perfect for you.
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  Gameplay is the same as in Resident Evil 4. Camera is behind persons shoulder with attached laser 
 on your gun, you can aim at any body part. For example, if you shoot him in the leg, he will fall 
 on his knees, so you can easily send a fist into his face. If you suprise him from behind, you can 
 brake his neck. Ofcourse, the big part of this game is CO-OP mode. There's offline and online way 
 of playing CO-OP. Offline is a split-screen ame actually, and you can play it with your friend 
 or grandpa or whoever you like, both with Sixaxis in your hands. Online is playing on the internet 
 with your partner. I mostly like Offline mode, because it's much more fun than playing alone. The 
 game has QuickTimeEvents too, where you have to push buttons to survive in cutscenes. Very interesting 
 add-on that was implented into Resident Evil 4 too. I tell you, you will play this game many times, 
 because fun start right after you upgrade you weapons.
  
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Graphics are amazing. I never saw such good details in my life. Even Ucharted is worser. (Yeah, 
 I'm overreacting) And ofcourse, graphics make Resident Evil 5 evem more scarier, even though it's 
 not so horrific. It's supposted to be OMG IT'S SO SCARY game, but it's not.
  
  
  It's a legendary game. Story is original and interesting. There's one thing I do agree: Resident 
 Evil 4 was better. Pleasure was much better, because gameplay was all new and wow, now it's just 
 boring and old. But it's still worth playing.
  
  Story: 5/5
  Gameplay:5/4
  Graphics:5/5
  
  Overall: 5/5
  
  For more and better reviews, check out my blog: http://ps3engblog. blogspot. com/
 
  Thank you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lobert124
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is a great game that really supports co-op in a great way. It is always satisfying 
 to blast a zombie in the head or in the leg to punch the dude in the face. There are many great 
 guns that can be upgraded and all the guns have a great feel to it. Although tough at first, the 
 inventory system will become a little easier by switching items with Sheva. The story isn't quiet 
 there but the game play carries it through to the end. The mercenaries mode is fun especially playing 
 as Wesker and Jill. There is a ton of replay value to unlock different guns, different costumes, 
 and getting better times. There are also a lot of hidden objects to find to unlock enough points 
 to get infinite ammo weapons. Even though the story isn't that compelling, there is a lot to do 
 with Resident Evil 5 and the experience with either co-op our single player it is definitely worth 
 checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luch881
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game .. The graphics are so good and realistic. The story is great but you must of played 
 the last 3 games to really know what it's about. The responses of the enemies are good but could 
 be improved on because they are quite dumb. The difficulty is not too hard .. nor to easy .. it 
 is just right. The way the characters move are realistic .. except the responses are not that great. 
 Your partner is useful but gets really annoying. She takes stuff when you do not tell her to, she 
 attacks people when she isn't suppose to, her responses to your orders are not good, etc. The flow 
 of the game is great. I hope for another Resident Evil game because I have played all Resident 
 Evil games, and I have enjoyed them all. Although with the couple of problems of Resident Evil 
 5 that could be improved upon, the game is still very, very good. I recommend it to anybody! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripcurl530
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 11:58 am PT
Review:  If you played Resident Evil 4 and loved it, you'll surely enjoy RE5. The game is similar enough 
 that at first glance, it seems like just more of the same. Delve deeper though, and the rewarding 
 upgrade system reveals itself to be one of the most satisfying endeavors in any game.
  First things first. You cannot move and shoot in RE5. The complaints about this fact are unfounded. 
 Stopping and shooting is an integral part of the "new" resident evil gameplay. Much like Gears 
 of War's "stop and pop" gameplay, this mechanic makes the game what it is. That's not to say that 
 a system more akin to dead space's movement system wouldn't work; it certainly may, but then what 
 would differentiate RE5? 
  The game can be described as RE4 fully expanded in all directions. This time around, you'll have 
 access to a plethora of weapons, all of which can be upgraded. The weapons each have a unique feel, 
 and for some of the stronger enemies, you'll definitely need to put some money into upgrades. 
 
  The game looks amazing. The environments are atmospheric and varied and the lighting pulls everything 
 together. The developers obviously spent a huge amount of time designing the characters. You can 
 unlock figurines of each enemy and character that can be rotated and zoomed so that you can view 
 the staggering detail of the modelers' hard work. 
  You earn money by selling the treasures you find throughout the levels. There is so much to upgrade 
 and purchase this game that you will be occupied long after your first, second, and even third 
 run-through. The fun really starts when you beat the game. After completing your first run, you'll 
 be able to purchase unlimited ammo for any of your fully-upgraded weapons. You can optimize your 
 layout and tear through the levels with awesome efficiency to compete with everyone else on the 
 leaderboards. 
  The tone of the game is much like RE4. The scare factor of a traditional horror game is toned down 
 to say the least. It's more of an action-suspense game than anything but the cutscenes are awesome 
 and the difficulty at higher levels lends a certain level of tension to everything. 
  If you somehow manage to 100% the campaign and all it has to offer, you can move on to the mercenaries 
 mode which makes a triumphant return from RE4. The addition of coop skyrockets this mode into the 
 stratosphere. You'll have hours of fun just trying to survive the onslaught of zombies with a friend. 
 The mode is much like the horde mode in Gears 2 and will provide as much gameplay as you make of 
 it.
  Resident Evil 5 may not be a return to RE roots, but it is a fine game nonetheless. You'll be occupied 
 for anywhere from 15-20 or so hours just to beat the game and do the minimum of exploration to 
 100s of hours fully upgrading and unlocking anything as well as playing mercenaries. This game 
 is a boatload of value and is an easy recommendation to make for anyone!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinistergoggles
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 12:40 am PT
Review:  Don't worry guys, Capcom managed to pull it off with Resident Evil 5. I know I was scared when 
 they told ppl that their next game would be a co-operative adventure. XD But yeah, Resident Evil 
 5 is rocking good time of a game.
  
  So the story is pretty simple, Chris is out to get the one guy who started it all and finish it. 
 Early on in the game, you're told that your old buddy, Jill Valentine, is dead. :o It's okay though, 
 they've thrown in a new partner for you. :O Her name is Sheva Alomar.., and she's not that bad. 
 :D It's their mission to end this bio-terrorism craziness for good. 
  
  RE5 plays pretty much like RE4 (Tank Like Controls) . Actually, they've added another control scheme 
 that adds strafing... but I changed the controls to the RE4 scheme before beginning the game. So 
 sorry.., I don't know anything about the new controls. I do know though... that there isn't an 
 option to walk and shoot at the same time, so HA. The Inventory System has been changed a bit, 
 biggest change is being that it's only accessible without pause during the actual game. So this 
 means that you'll be moving things around and combining herbs in the inventory will leave you expose 
 to danger. This only adds to the tension, so it's welcomed. They've added more quick time events 
 too (like the knife scene in RE4) ; the ones where you need to mash two buttons at the same time 
 to avoid getting seriously hurt or death during certain situations. These are welcomed as well. 
 There's a great variety of weapons; mostly the standard RE arsenal though. They're all upgradeable 
 as they are in RE4 (No merchant dude) . The enemies are pretty much the same, just uglier. A few 
 new enemy times; a few of them with the power to fatally wound you in one hit. Boss fights are 
 amazing, but a bit to easy sometimes. 
  
  For those of you Lone Wolves out there, don't worry. Sheva is able to manage herself if you decided 
 to tackle the story head on by yourself. If she does dies, it's probably your own fault. 
  
  Again though, this game is meant to be played with a buddy. You have the option of hosting 
 your own game, joining others, or playing split-screen with a buddy at home. Joining a game is 
 as easy and refreshing a page, looking for a person's game, and pressing okay. Hosting lets you 
 pick the difficulty, chapter, and weather you want your actions to affect your partner or not. 
 You're able to carry your arsenal with you over to other game and are able to trade items with 
 other characters.. with the exception of weapons and armor. It's fine though and all this works 
 very well. You have a few communicating options, like asking your partner to come or halt; thank 
 and request items. After the Game, you unlock a Mercenaries game mode, with lets you and another 
 buddy (online or split-screen) tackle the survival mode to see how much points you can rack up. 
 You'll be unlocking new characters and arenas as you play. 
  
  You have the option, again, to play Mercenaries alone. But it's much more fun to bring a buddy 
 along for the ride. 
  
  Graphically.. this is the best looking Resident Evil game yet, and one of the better looking games 
 to come out this year. Character animations look absolutely amazing. The sound and musical score 
 are all fitting, but nothing you'll be remembering for months to come. The voice over work is amazing, 
 and the script has lesser cheese lines than the previous games. Something I found a bit disappointing 
 was the gore, or the lack off. In RE4, we got a chance to see Leon get decapitated, burned with 
 acid, and die in other violent ways. It's all clean on RE5, just a bit of blood is all. No body 
 parts will be flying around, for the main characters that is. There is still plenty of nasty stuff 
 in the game to go around. 
  
  There's aren't too many problems with the game. There is a bit of lag online, and it can get a 
 bit confusing at times.. resulting in death, but that's okay. It doesn't happen enough to the point 
 of "I'm gonna throw my remote against the wall" frustration. Your AI partner does a great job of 
 not getting killed.. or you killed, on the solo adventure. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 in one phenomenal package. Sure.. the story did sorta go a weird direction and 
 there are still some people who missing shooting zombies... But Capcom did a great job with the 
 story here. This game is defiantly worth checking out and a must have for Resident Evil fans.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FooleyAnimator7
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  Ok. After I flipped Resident Evil 4 in June 07, I went on Yahoo to get some images, then I saw 
 this guy on there, and I didn't know who it was. Further investigations led me to find that that 
 guy I saw on Yahoo was the good ol' Chris Redfield. And every month I checked I was thirsty with 
 no drinks for this to come. And when I got it for my PS3, I immediatley played. I was caught I 
 was hooked..... then I was a bit dissapointed. Only a tiny bit. I was hurt because all that hype 
 that was built up wasn't released the way I wanted it to be. Ofcourse it got a 9.5, but this was 
 NOT better than part 4. Graphics and voice overs, abosolutely speechless, storyline was great, 
 but it was just too darn short. I almost beat it in THREE days, But it took like 2 weeks for me 
 to beat part 4. And what's worse was the inventory selection. Why only give and keep nine slots? 
 Where was the special armor that shoulda added like 20 more slots to your inventory. That's what 
 my problem was, those two things is what brought it down, It was too darn short, and the inventory 
 selection sucked. I often found me and the Beautiful, Black woman: Sheva Alomar switching weapons 
 or had like a piece of health remaining because most of our slots were filled with guns, ammo, 
 bombs, but NO health. I had to waste bombs just to grab an herb. But seriously if they had just 
 fixed those problems, this woulda definitely been a heck of alot better than Resident Evil 4. Sheva 
 was beutiful in two ways. First, she was just plain beautiful, and second, her playing as an A. I 
 was really delightful. She listened unlke the Outbreak characters, and she sure enough stopped 
 shooting to come save you if you were in needed help. But all in all Resident Evil 5 gets a 9.5 
 outta 10, just because of 2 faulty mistakes. :'- ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PUREPL7YA
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Presentation: 8.0
  The Good: Typical RE4 style gameplay, Plenty of unlockables
  The Bad: Cliche and predictable plot not befitting to the series, frequent loading screens
  
 
  Summary: Resident Evil 4 rewrote the blueprint for survival horror in terms of gameplay and even 
 took it's own spin on the RE series by introducing new characters and a different plot. RE5 is, 
 well, more of the same, but gone are the horror elements found in previous entries... and survival 
 elements are no longer a problem as gold, ammunition and healing herbs are found in abundance throughout 
 each level. Basically all you have after that is a rather shallow experience which is not challenging 
 enough to be considered an action game and definitely not scary enough to be survival horror.
 
  
  
  Audio/Visual: 9.0
  The Good: Lighting effects are phenomenal, settings look realistic
  The Bad: Game lacks atmosphere, 
 quick time animations look stilted
  
  Summary: Everything in RE5 except for the updated graphics are almost identical to RE4. One thing 
 I didn't like about the audio score was that there basically is none: battles become predictable 
 as the music will kick in when an ambush is coming but cuts out permanently after you finish off 
 the last remaining infected-zombie. Animations can be a mixed bad: blasting away the infected hordes 
 with a shotgun looks unreal, but the button mashing sequences initiated when one of them comes 
 up to place a chokehold on you look highly dramatic and detailed. Some other quicktime events, 
 such as the ugly, ugly curb-stomp rip-off from Gears of War just look sloppy. There was also a 
 noticeable amount of the same friggin people appearing in every level. Lazy.
  
  
  Technical: 7.5
  The Good: Solid shooting mechanics, upgradeable weapons
  The Bad: Controls 
 may prove frustrating for some, no melee button
  
  Summary: Well, actually you can melee. RE5 forces you to equip your machete, stand perfectly still, 
 and swing away... The same goes for shooting - any weapon you wish to use requires you to stand 
 perfectly still, aim and fire. You have to plan and shoot strategically to overcome the various 
 infected humans, dogs, and other monstrosities you encounter with an impressive arsenal of weapons 
 and explosives. Although this definitely adds tension to the experience, mix it in with an incredibly 
 limited and difficult to manage inventory system and you have recipe for disaster. If you wish 
 to trade ammunition, it's either all or nothing as there is no specifying how much you wish to 
 give/take. Also, when playing co-operative online, if your partner happens to leave or get disconnected 
 guess what - your AI partner's inventory is now EMPTY! Capcom also decided to remove the upgradeable 
 inventory case where you can increase the amount of items you can carry. They also deliberately 
 got rid of the merchant from RE4. Now, you can only buy/sell/upgrade items once in between levels. 
 The list just goes on and on...
  
  The A. I. of your partner ranges from decent to downright infuriating, as Sheva can be very helpful 
 in saving your ass when you need her or giving you helpful hints to progress through each level, 
 but she is no conserver of ammo and never knows which weapon to use and when. Although I really 
 enjoyed playing with her, be careful - for she is reluctant to shooting you in the back or landing 
 a drop kick on you if you get in her way and there is a downed enemy nearby! The cover system is 
 also BROKEN, and only allows you to use it in particular segments chosen by the developers. Why 
 leave a busted feature like this in the final version of the game when you probably would never 
 need to use it in the first place?
  
  
  Tilt: 7.5
  The Goods: Co-operative makes the experience more bareable
  The Bad: Single player is recycled 
 to the point of boredom, Mercenaries mode has a time limit
  
  Summary: In total, Resident Evil 5 can be beaten within 8-10 hours depending on whether or not 
 you play with a friend. You can unlock and play "Mercenaries" mode by beating the game and pitting 
 yourself (and a partner offline) against a horde of zombie-infected baddies and racking up as many 
 points as you can within the allotted time limit. You can play through the game again with unlimited 
 ammunition and unlockable alternate costumes. You can also play on "Professional" mode when a single 
 hit of damage results in game over and restarting the chapter.
  
  
  Overall: 7.5
  The Good: Co-operative mode and unlockables add longevity
  The Bad: Story was greatly disappointing 
 and gameplay had absolutely nothing new to see
  
  Summary: I just can't help but feel that Capcom could have done a much better job with this sequel. 
 Although the addition of co-op is a novel idea and greatly extends the games replay value, I found 
 the game to be too easy for an action title, not scary enough (or at all) to be a survival horror 
 and just too boring in most parts to warrant more than a single playthrough. RE5 is a great recommendation 
 for newcomers, but overall it's a rather disappointing sequel that should have improved on the 
 Resident Evil formula and played to the strengths of it's predecessors titles.
  Capcom's inclusion of "Versus Mode," which was included with the retail version of the game, could 
 only be unlocked through DLC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tahmidk
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed RESI5 because of the fights and the bosses and it was challenging and you have 
 to use your brain and tacticts for example you have to build up a strategy , or if your fighting 
 wesker run like hell , hide, rocket launcher him, shoot him then shoot like crazy with your magnum 
 gun.
  
  I really enjoyed alot of Resident Evil 5 and i'd say this game has the best replay value out there, 
 however the online was rather dissapointng and i hate the fact that versus cost money!
  
  i really enjoyed this game because after you've finished it you might want to get the rest of the 
 trophies or find the rest of the BSAA embles or just upgrade your guns and go infinite ammo!
  
  However i realy hated mercenaries mode because im not good at it , lol.
  I liked how they 
 removed the horror genre for action as well and enjoyed blasting off zombies head and reminded 
 me of the older games used to play and found it really fun.
  
  If your a person who likes blowing up a person called irving then this is the game for you!
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PesmergaYuber
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:30 am PT
Review:  This is my first game review. And I'm actually prompted to write this because I want to love this 
 game.
  
  In fact, I preordered this game, something I rarely do because I am very selective about the games 
 I buy. This is partly because I prefer older games on the SNES, and the classic PC strategy games 
 and RPGs. Another reason is because I don't make a lot of extra income so I can't afford to buy 
 a lot of games. 
  
  I should start by pointing out that for me personally, there are three things that I look for when 
 I evaluate games:
  
  1. Story
  2. Replay Value
  3. Production Value/Consistancy
  
  The Resident Evil series has always had very complex, albeit campy, storylines. They tell facinating 
 stories about characters stuck in horrible situations, who triumph against all odds and at the 
 end of it complete another piece of the puzzle. Resident Evil 5 is certainly no exception to that 
 rule, but somehow I don't feel the same sense of peril as when I was crammed into a narrow police 
 station hallway and a licker jumped at me for the first time. Or when a tyrant bursts through the 
 wall at you not once, not twice, but three times, you never seem to see it coming. The survival 
 horror concept seems to be pretty much out the window now because the emphasis has shifted to faster 
 paced combat. Allies that drop in and out, access to outside radio contacts, and the idea that 
 these characters are knowingly putting themselves in danger rather than fighting to escape eliminates 
 much of that tension. The only thing scarier than facing a horde of zombies or Las Plagas, is knowing 
 that there is no one to back you up. Also Zombies are ultimately much more terrifying because they 
 are more realistic in a sense. Its easier to picture Zombies rising up in real life, than it is 
 to imagine a Ganado with a giant insectoid parasite for a head coming at you.
  
  But what Resident Evil 5 does do tremendously is answer a lot of questions as to the why's of the 
 Resident Evil universe. With this game we learn the origins of Umbrella, Tricell, and Wesker, as 
 well as the histories and true purpose of all the major Viruses throughout the games and who is 
 trying to control them. The story does leave you with a sense of satisfaction, but also leaves 
 it open for more in the future.
  
  Replay value for me for this game is not as great as I expected it to be. The open ended nature 
 of some of the earlier games, gave you a good reason to play through, and often times much more 
 significant challenges. But what I find with Resident Evil 5 is that the game actually gets easier 
 the more times you play it, as you can upgrade your weapons to be so powerful that most of your 
 opponents are no longer even a challenge. There are no alternate storylines aside from being able 
 to play the main storyline as the other main character. It does however allow you to collect tropies 
 and find all the hidden items and unlock additional features, which is always a plus. 
  
  The production value for this game is mostly great, the graphics are smooth and look good and the 
 interfaces are clean and organized. There are some very annoyingly frustrating control issues that 
 I find often distract from the game, but is not something that is new to the RE series. The controls 
 for these games have always been notoriously restrictive, mostly due to weird camera angles, and 
 the complete lack of movement while shooting. I like the idea of a quick inventory system that 
 prevents you from going into your inventory and using herbs and reloading right in the heat of 
 battle. Its certainly more realistic, but gone are the days of carrying a pistol, a green/red herb, 
 first aid spray, shotgun, rifle, grendades, rocket launcher, submachine and enough ammo to go around. 
 It forces the player to be more strategic for sure, but simple things like taking ammo directly 
 from the ground to your gun are impossible if you dont have an empty inventory slot or the appropriate 
 ammo. These things are particular I know, but for me they can be frustrating and distract from 
 the experience.
  
  Anyway, just wanted to get my two cents in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Distortion_Lane
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:50 pm PT
Review:  Being in development for quite some time now RE5 is finally out for us all to enjoy. The game is 
 actually really solid, mainly due to the fact that it plays almost identical to RE4. Now that is 
 actually not a bad thing at all! However the pace of the game as well as some of the scenarios 
 could have been done in a different way. Resident Evil to still is survival horror, except it hs 
 a much faster pace and and much more action elements. To say that it is now a pure action game 
 would not be accurate as it still retains the tension this series has gotten its reputation for.
 
  Co-op is great and all but for single player experience they could've easily altered the game 
 so that you could finish it with Chris alone and Sheva would only appear in certain boss fights 
 or puzzles... or something like that. 
  Here is an overview of some pros and cons of RE5:
  
  Gameplay (8/10) :
  
  +Interesting story
  +Real time weapon switching
  +Co-op option 
 both online and offline as well as for mercenaries
  +Mercenaries! 
  +Great variety of weapons
  +Button prompts are rare, which makes them an interesting addition 
 to the game rather than a repetative chore
  +Great boss fights
  +/- The new inventory system can add suspense when scrambling for bullets, but can also be annoying 
 
  -Co-op with AI can be annoying if you just wanna play the game solo
  -Can get repetative
  -Not as atmospheric and immersive as RE4
  -So so last boss fight
  
 
  Graphics:
  
  +Excellent art design
  +Looks freakin gorgeous
  +Cutscenes are really well done (I wonder if they had some people from DMC4 team work on those...)
 
  -Frequent framerate stutters and in some areas poor water effects (Apparently not an issue in 
 the 360 version)
  
  Sound:
  
  +Pretty good voice acting
  +Excellent sound effects (Gunshots, helicopter, explosions)
  +Great music
  
  Value:
  
 
  +Decent length, although not quite as long as RE4
  +Very replayable
  +Lots of extras
  +Once again... Mercenaries!
  
  If you liked RE4, there is really no reason why you wouldn't 
 like part 5. If you've never played RE4, might want to rent it to check it out. If you hated the 
 changes RE4 brought to the series, best not to play this game at all. All in all though, if you 
 compare this to most other games released this gen, it is definately one of the best ones. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadly669
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:49 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing. This game is very good, everything from the menus to the gameplay. The bosses 
 are also very well made. The graphics are very good.
  
  Graphics: Lush, amazing, landscapes, from deserts to jungles
  Gameplay: Many do not like the 
 "stop and shoot" method, but I think its fine
  Control: Great
  Replayability: You can go back to the story to beat old scores, or you can play mercs! That is 
 awesome!
  
  Overall this game is truly amazing. The scare factor is not exactly there, but whatever, I haven't 
 really played any of the other resident evils..... The Bosses are something I would like to highlight 
 right now, they are very cool. How you fight them is very interesting. They range from just fighting 
 them to shooting mega lasers at them. There are also an abundance of really awesome weapons. Assault 
 Rifles, Magnums, Grenade Launchers, Shotguns. Anyway if your a fan of action games, I say do not 
 overlook this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -CANUCK-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 1:37 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil is an example of a franchise that could've only succeeded as a video game.
  
  What other film or television series has gotten away with combining the depth of storytelling equal 
 to a Power Rangers episode with the gratuitous violence of a horror film? Such a concept would 
 nary succeed in movie theatres where film ratings are enforced, but the ESRB ratings didn't quite 
 carry the same weight in a video game store back in the day. Not that they carry much more weight 
 nowadays but still. Besides, the standards of storytelling in video games are significantly lower. 
 Game magazines were proclaiming that Grand Theft Auto 4 could win an Oscar once upon a time. 
 
  
  In Resident Evil 4, a complete smartass with an exceptional haircut was asked to rescue the president's 
 daughter from an evil army of mutated Spanish peasants lead by a diabolical cult leader. It stripped 
 away all of the Resident Evil backstory that clouds the previous games, opting to create its own 
 unique, fun little standalone adventure.
  
  Resident Evil 5 backpedals a good deal and returns the series to its main story; of going to great 
 lengths to characterize "The Umbrella Corporation" regardless of how little one could possibly 
 care. And this is the final chapter of the whole Resident Evil story arc; all of the answers to 
 the questions fans may have had will be answered here. If you're extremely sensitive to any line 
 of text resembling a spoiler then skip this whole paragraph but really, anybody that takes the 
 Resident Evil mythology seriously has already bought this game anyways. The plot is ridiculous, 
 but without a sense of humour or self-awareness. The dialogue is still terrible, and I know that 
 it's a franchise tradition to have hammy, illogical speech, but this game is trying to be taken 
 seriously with its key plot points. And if you have been following this whole franchise for some 
 13 years, then you may be disappointed to find out that all of the mysteries built up across the 
 many, many games in the series have been building up to one man trying to destroy the human race 
 like he's the friggin Shredder or something. To me, the Resident Evil franchise is the intellectual 
 equal of a Saturday morning cartoon with gore (well, maybe less if you count the writing.) There's 
 a cackling supervillain, a muscle-bound hero trying to stop him, a sexy sidekick and many henchmen 
 along the way. 
  
  So we have the incredibly muscular Chris Redfield, going into an African nation to stop some kind 
 of terrorist threat. Joining him is partner Sheva Alomar, sister of the umpire-loving baseball 
 player, and along the way they'll encounter legions of the same kind of zombie-but-not-quite beings 
 from Resident Evil 4. The gameplay takes many right pages from that game, as well as a few wrong 
 pages from games before it. It's the same kind of run/stop/aim shooter as Resident Evil 4, and 
 the people at Capcom have yet to pick up on the Japanese translation of the word "strafe" for you 
 still can't run sideways and fire. The behavior of your enemies is built around this concept, sometimes 
 oddly so; they'll sprint to your location, even jumping ten feet in the air to a higher platform, 
 and then start slowly approaching you zombie-style when in your close proximity. Then, they will 
 subsequently take their time to remember what offensive tactic to use, before settling on "chokehold."
 
  
  The game also takes a bit of a sour turn near the end, when the mindless zombie-but-not-quite beings 
 start arming themselves. Their idea of gun combat is a bit silly, often standing still and firing 
 in a rhythmic pattern, like their shots are being timed by a gym teacher. It's equally silly that 
 you can take cover only on pre-determined walls during these segments, as opposed to say, any wall 
 and crate in the game, as it creates this crisis where I found myself running across the level 
 looking for what the developers decided would be suitable cover, all the while trying to fend off 
 the meat-shields that are the zombie-but-not-quite melee attackers who were trying to flank us 
 as the zombie-but-not-quite gunmen fired their machine guns and in tune to the beat in their head.
 
  
  But in spite of these odd scenarios, I liked the gameplaymost of the time. The whole idea of standing 
 still to shoot means there's a greater emphasis on precision aiming and thinking about your shots 
 instead of running around instinctively aiming in the general direction of the head. There are 
 tactical advantages to say, tripping an enemy with a leg shot, or aiming for the stick of dynamite 
 in their hand. And lest I forget, there's a decidedly strong feeling of tension when you're surrounded 
 by zombie-but-not-quites slowly approaching you and acting like the zombies they're trying not 
 to be.
  
  About the partner aspect; boo-urns to it. It's annoying when Sheva's occupied one of the sparse 
 cover locations later in the game, for one. For another, Sheva is anything but good at handling 
 resources. I wouldn't trust her to run my small, unnamed African nation. If she has a first aid 
 spray or herb, regardless of size, she'll use it if she notices a small scratch on your arm. While 
 the AI is proficient enough to rarely find itself in danger, she also tends to burn through ammunition 
 like it's a renewable commodity. So you kind of have to idiot-proof your AI teammate; don't trust 
 her with healing items and make sure she doesn't carry the same kind of guns you do. Even then, 
 she seems quite oblivious to the makeshift weapons system I invented and I still found myself ordering 
 her to pick up ammo cases I had reserved for her. 
  
  And lest we forget about the inventory system; each character can only carry nine items. Body armour 
 that you're wearing counts as stored item, and thus I couldn't waste precious inventory space with 
 protection. Dropping an item will disintegrate it forever, and the interface for moving items from 
 person to another is too cluttered. If you want to, say, give ammo to Sheva, you have to go to 
 your inventory screen, pick the ammo box, select "Give" and then confirm that you indeed want to 
 give Sheva this pack of ammo. And the game doesn't pause during this whole process; you could be 
 swarmed by legions of the undead-but-not-quite and thus in a situation where you need to make key 
 item decisions (like combine two herbs) , only to have a zombie-but-not-quite chokehold ruin your 
 botany practice. 
  
  So Resident Evil 5 is meant to be played with another person. In fact I'm sure I would've enjoyed 
 most of the boss battles more if I was playing with a friend, being that they were all designed 
 with some kind of teamwork aspect in mind. You can play online but there doesn't seem to be too 
 many people willing to allow a stranger from the Playstation Network in on their game. Or perhaps 
 everyone's PS3 is busy installing the game. Likewise, you can play in your living room with a friend, 
 and I'm sure that if I had a friend that wanted to play through an entire Resident Evil campaign 
 with me, that I would've found the experience to be fantastic, inventory micromanagement and everything. 
 But I don't feel like Resident Evil 5 is the most accessible multiplayer experience to someone 
 that doesn't already know that red and green herbs belong together. When I think multiplayer, I 
 think of games that buddies can casually come over, learn how to pick up and play quickly, kill 
 some virtual Nazis (or the solo to Let There Be Rock) , and be on their merry way. I feel as though 
 Resident Evil 5, with it's slower pace and focus on item management, doesn't constitute to a positive 
 and accessible co-op experience. Thus, it's meant to be played only with a fellow hardcore Resident 
 Evil 4 fanatic, or whoever counts inventory at your grocery store. 
  
  The game is about 8-9 hours long, shorter than its predecessor but that's still a good length for 
 a next-generation action game. I couldn't, however, tell you what the multiplayer versus mode is 
 like, because Capcom is charging five bucks for that and this game already sells at a full $70 
 in Canada. For aspiring Jill sandwiches, I believe the real value in the package is the unlockable 
 Mercenaries mode, where the player is thrust in an open area with a time limit to rack up zombie-but-not-quite 
 kills. This time around, there are more levels and online leaderboards, so there's an inherent 
 lasting value amongst devoted fans. 
  
  But I ultimately didn't feel like Resident Evil 5 is a good purchase to anyone but those who are 
 already committed to the franchise and must see it through to the end. If you've waited 13 years 
 to give Albert Wesker his just desserts, or you're a devoted Resident Evil 4 fanatic with a roommate 
 who's also a Resident Evil 4 fanatic, then this is $70 well spent. But for the average Joe gamer, 
 looking from the outside wondering what Milla Jovovich is doing appearing in all of these movies, 
 then don't bother. Go play Resident Evil 4; it has all the action with a touch of wacky fun. 
 
  
  And as the climax to a supposed iconic game franchise, I can't help but a feel a bit disappointed. 
 This could be due to a lack of an attachment to the cast on my part, but why would I want to sympathize 
 with Mr. Redfield? Metal Gear Solid 4, despite a compulsive need to make the largest stretches 
 in logic to explain the smallest loose ends, felt like a grandiose epic, an explosive climax to 
 a story arc more than a decade in the making. By comparison, Resident Evil 5 lands with a thud. 
 
  
  3  stars.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdw0908
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:  This game is not Resident Evil 4. What this game aims at is to further the story behind the premise 
 of RE:4 while integrating some "familiar face" back into the series after the horrid run of games 
 prior to RE:4. 
  
  This game was set in a completely different setting. It is not drab (neutral) , nor is it as dark 
 (colored) as the RE:4 Spanish villiage/countryside. This was done (IMO) to show the widespread 
 of the Umbrella corp and bring a new player (Tri-Cell) into the story. This furthers the overall 
 reach of the RE series. I like the way they have added some of the dark and "scary" elements back 
 into the game - fights @ night, going into mines (especially creepy/odd when playing with 2 people) , 
 etc. However, it has done something never done in the series before: adding the co-op option via 
 internet or on the same console. I love this part of the game, and it makes it a LOT MORE FUN!!!! 
 
  
  The only downside to this game IMO is the length. I am about at the end of it and it seems to be 
 a lot shorter than 4, but I really am enjoying it. The story is good, and it really brings a lot 
 of the good engine and gameplay from 4 which totally reinvented the series. The addition of Co-op 
 is not enough to say 5 'reinvents' or is the best in the series (that honor is left to 1 or 4 in 
 my opinion) , but it definitely should be carried forward in the rest of the games or at least have 
 an option to go solo or co-op (maybe 2 different stories, or two different POV's???) .
  
  If you like the series, do yourself a favor and get the game. It is visually stunning and the audio 
 is really well done. It also has a ton of replay value for a new-gen game even if you don't typically 
 replay these new titles. I think it personally got hit for the 'stop and shoot' feature, but that 
 doesn't bother me that much (I'm not a HUGE fps player) ... so I give it a 9.0, and I think that 
 is fair... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DianaHewie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:08 pm PT
Review:  The long wait for Resident Evil 5 was full of questions, speculations, anxiety, excitement, and 
 in the end... it fell a little short.
  
  Don't get me wrong, it's a great game. But there feels as though there's something lacking and 
 I can't quite put my finger on it.
  
  Graphics- 9.8/10
  I don't understand people slamming the graphics so much. I've seen quite a few people do so. Personally, 
 I thought the graphics were beautiful, especially the African backgrounds and areas. It looks very 
 real. The only part I thought that seemed a little ridiculous was the dramatic mouth movements. 
 When you're talking, you don't have to move your mouth that much. C'mon, you can't tell me you 
 didn't notice them doing that at least once? Regardless, the graphics look great and I thought 
 the characters and atmospheres looked beautiful.
  
  Characters- 10/10
  I loved the characters this time around. I'm already a fan of Chris and I thought Sheva was a nice 
 character as well. Wesker's simply a series favorite and I also liked Irving and Excella. "Bird 
 Lady" was a very cool concept as well. I only wish she had more time in the game as "Bird Lady." 
 The development on these characters isn't anything deep or special, but if you've played RE, you 
 should know that no character gets that kind of treatment.
  
  Voice Acting- 9.5/10
  There were some moments that the voice acting felt very forced and the emotion sounded fake, but 
 then again, I think that's a usual RE thing. "Stop it. Don't open that door!" or "I hope that's 
 not Chris's blood!" or "You were almost a Jill sandwich!" type lines have almost become normal 
 for the series, so to have a game where the characters sounded 100% genuine and serious just might 
 be laughable in itself. But even still, I would think that by the time of PS3, the voice acting 
 might have worked itself out. Guess not. But I don't think it was that big of a problem. There 
 were only two lines or so in the entire game that were slightly cringe-worthy but hopefully, you 
 can overlook that. If not, you're too picky.
  
  Music- 10/10
  Very nice music. I thought it was placed nicely in the areas and there's a *certain* battle that 
 uses a track titled "Sad But True." That track alone deserves a 10. The entire music score is very 
 nice on the ears and has a well fitting "African flavor" to it.
  
  Gameplay- 10/10
  Did you like RE4's gameplay? Ok, well, nothing has really changed. This time around, you can change 
 the scheme of the controls, titled A-D, if I remember correctly. This can prove useful for a bit 
 of customizing and if you want controls just like RE4, it allows that too.
  The other new addition is the ability to play co-op, whether offline with a buddy in person or 
 online. Now, I haven't had the chance to do this myself yet but I hear it's a great addition and 
 is much more fun.
  Speaking of which, I did not seem to find Sheva's AI to be too bad. There are a few moments where 
 she doesn't seem to think at all and I died a few times because of her, but overall, she was manageable. 
 
  
  Plot- 6.7/10
  Ok, ok, now hold on a second. RE has never had the best plots to begin with, I know that. But they 
 tried to cram way too much story into such a small amount of time that it was almost overwhelming. 
 There is an entire flashback history sequence that definitely could have done better in it's own 
 game, considering part of it play such an important role in this one, yet I didn't care at all. 
 Had it ended with this particular "cliff hanger" (you'll see once you play it) in one game to pick 
 up where it left off in another, I think it would have worked much better that way. Another thing 
 is the length. RE5 is insanely short, probably about half the length of RE4, which is the opposite 
 of what we were told. I remember Capcom saying RE5 would be as long as (if not longer) RE4. Another 
 flaw that I thought it had was that it didn't tie up ANY loose ends from the rest of the series, 
 as Capcom said it would. If anything, it's created more with the inclusion of new characters, new 
 character/plot elements, and the addition of Tricell. I really thought the story fell apart because 
 of these three things. After waiting so long for it, the plot (and its "conclusion") felt rather 
 unsatisfying. Was it bad? Of course not. But it wasn't what I had expected, which could also be 
 my own fault.
  
  Replayability- 10/10
  There are multiple difficulties to play through, extras (costumes, figurines, trophies, etc.) to 
 unlock, a DLC "Versus" mode, and online play.
  
  Overall? A worthy game to the series. It certainly is not as mind blowing as many had probably 
 hoped, as some parts feel like RE4 with a new face but it is very enjoyable and very fun. If you 
 like RE, go for it! If not, I still suggest it. Perhaps this is the just the game to hook you into 
 the series. It is simple enough to follow and it feeds you enough information that you won't get 
 lost in the story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  resident evil 5 is finally out but was it worth the wait dell yes the game sacitfies in many ways 
 espically with the story. You think it would be stupid to put a game in africa because far cry 
 2 messed it up, though resident evil pulled it off. 
  In resident evil 5 you play as Chris a guy who investagates africa to see whats going on and to 
 find his long lost partern whos name i forgot but you have an accompined pattern named sheva who 
 tags along and brings co-op in the game which is alot easier because if your pattern die (which 
 hardly never happen) you have to start all over to the checkpoint. it gets really annoying in the 
 final battle which i wont exploit. Anyways so you first see your first zombie in the game when 
 two africans hold down another african and put something in his mouth he sawols it and runs after 
 you. Which is also good about the game beacauce slow zombies can be a pain.
  Whats really good about resident evil 5 is that there is more weapons (like 10 more) that you can 
 give to your partern or you. Though you still can run and shoot. You should at least be able to 
 walk and shoot, espically when the zombie with the chainsaw is after you. Though the game feels 
 a little bit racis because since your in affica and because of the color of africans and how many 
 african zombies there are if you catch my drift.
  
  The Good
  Co-op is fun
  surprisingly good place to kill zombies
  addictive gameply
  more weapons
  amazing graphics
 
  Good storyline
  Same old resident evil control
  
  The Bad
  Cant run and shoot
  Ai partern can be annoying and useless at sometimes
  feels a bit rasist 
  easy big bosses
 
  
  Resident evil 5 is a must buy for the story and co-op but fails with pretty easy big boss fights. 
 Overall resident evil 5 is a game you must play before the 6th one comes out. even if a 6th one 
 dosent come out you musty at least try out this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 4:59 am PT
Review:  RE5 is a totally new perspective to Resident Evil in general... it doesn't have that dark misterious 
 place and dark misterious music theme anymore, which is too bad. I really liked those themes in 
 RE but we should look at this in a more sensible way. Chris has reached a level where he is too 
 good for whatever a mansion could throw at him, that's why RE5 had to be set more open and vast. 
 Also, if the first level was set in the dark, that would mean that the level against that giant 
 dude would have had to be set in the sunlight, and I wouldn't want that. And why would Wesker want 
 a base that is creepy and old like the mansion of RE1 when he could have the one/s in RE5? And, 
 the fact that there are so many different types of environtments can surely have an upside don't 
 you think?
  Bottom line: RE could only have those misterious closed areas when having a protagonist less experienced, 
 like Rebecca Chambers/Claire Redfield/Billy Coen etc... these are all great characters but do not 
 compare to Chris's skills. Also, having a main antagonist who is weaker than Wesker would make 
 these closed places more possible aswell.
  
  Now for the gameplay... I dunno why people are hating the an't move and shoot thing' especially 
 since the other REs were the same or even worse. I love the gameplay, especially with all those 
 great looking guns and the now more credible amount that you can carry.
  
  The visuals are great, even just watching your either muscular character with a strict stance or 
 your sexy, perfectly curved character running around doing their thing, it is already soothing 
 to the eyes. Graphics-wise the game is really good.
  
  The Mercenaries Mode isn't good IMO, it is very difficult at times (not the first few levels) and 
 don't quite hit the spot for a side action game.
  
  The length of the game is normal for a next-gen game, actually even better giving that this game 
 has such great graphics.
  
  The trophies in RE5 are not only very fun to get, but you also choose how difficult you want getting 
 the trophy to be by either choosing the difficulty you want to get it on and choose between having 
 and not having infinite ammo, and obviously some of the trophies are easier to get with a good 
 partner. RE5's replay value is off the roof and it has the only platinum that I ever bothered to 
 and managed to get :) AND after all those playthroughs for the platinum, I am still not sick of 
 the game and play online daily.
  
  Bottom line people, if you had any doubts about this game because of what other people said, all 
 those defects are either unnoticable after a while or needed for a sensible game or not as bad 
 as people say they are. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Abdulla82
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 12, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  When I first played Resident evil 4 i was amazed by the game, it was changed up side down , it 
 become like more action than horror game.. but the changes were welcomed, it was fantasic game 
 starting from the begining until the end of the game, you will be always attracted because of the 
 story and the action of the game. therefore, i thought resident evil 5 will follow the same road 
 but unfortunately resident evil 5 story is boring , moreover, it has few cut scenes which makes 
 the story poor. the game become more like shooting game.. you just walk and kill those las plagas 
 things. it feels like you are playing Resistence in 3rd person veiw instead of first person.
  you will not feel that you are attracted to the game and the story.
  this game makes you lose 
 the feelings attraction and horror that were something standard in the pervious resident evils.
 
  I am really disappointed , its really does not worth the wait.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 0utpt
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:18 am PT
Review:  Co-op mode is this game's biggest asset, i had lots of fun playing RE5 in split screen mode with 
 my sister. The mercenaries mode is also very fun, so there's still something cool to do after beating 
 the game.
  
  Graphics are really good, maybe some of the best i've seen on PS3. Character models are well detailed 
 and have good animations; scenery is really beautiful, i particularly liked lighting effects and 
 water reflections. Both characters and world textures are good. Sound effects and music are well 
 made, and can create a good atmosphere.
  
  Now the flaws: the plot is almost non-existent. It's not a major flaw, because the game is focused 
 on action. I also don't like the weapon upgrade system: how the hell is possible to stuff a M92F 
 with 100 bullets?
  I found the "shop" function very silly: how am i supposed to shop for things and upgrade weapons 
 while i'm deep in an ancient ruin? Weapon upgrade it's cool but i liked RE2 and 3 approach more: 
 you could find parts to upgrade your weapons in the game. Getting enemies' weapons could have been 
 a decent solution too.
  I've also wondered many times why dogs carry ammo or gold...
  
  All in all, the games qualities surpass by far the flaws, and i consider this a great game, but 
 it could have been awesome without those few and easy to fix flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B1G_B055
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:58 am PT
Review:  Personally i found Resident Evil 5 fun at first but latter in the game it kind of started going 
 down hill. The story is the same as most games these days of "We have to find this dude. oh he's 
 not here? Lets keep movin along!"
  The story of Resident Evil4 was by far better. The game was missing the puzzle element its predecessor 
 exceled at. Most of the "puzzles" were. "well its all calm and peaceful here but this darn door 
 wont budge... well looky here sheva A LEVER!! ill pull this one and you pull that one and see what 
 happens." then once you pull said lever not only does the door open but then only then do the townsfolk 
 jump out of the bushes and start mauling you. What i did like is how much more weapons they put 
 into the game. what i didnt like about this though is when ever you got a new gun youd find a replacement 
 2 or so sections of a chapter later so theres no use upgrading weapons until you have both the 
 first weapons and last one. the first to upgrade all the way to get unlockable weapons and the 
 last ones to use while you play the game through again and again and again. Sheva was a nice touch 
 to gameplay but she can be stupid from time to time. Capcom should have made her blonde from the 
 start. you give her a shotgun and tons of ammo but she still uses only her pistol and keeps yelling 
 at you that shes outta ammo.
  
  The Boss fights... this is the part of the game that really get my panties in a bunch.
  EVERY 
 SINGLE BOSS FIGHT you hear sheva say "something that undergoes such a rapid transformation must 
 have a weakness" Oh really? what do you think that huge yellow zit is? then after shooting that 
 zit for a bit theres a second stage. HOLY COW that thing has another zit on its back! shoot that 
 and youre done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rasbezzun
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  Resident evil series is probably one of the best out there after metal gear saga. i always loved 
 resident evil game starting from resident evil 1, but the new camera and gameplay of the 4 and 
 5 make it even more better!! the camera mode is more great for shooting even many ppl still thinks 
 the old camera was better which i dont really agree cos of the old camera was frustrating to shoot. resident 
 evil 5 brings back the hero from resident evil chris redfield with his new partnet sheva which 
 is another great idea of having a partner help u. resident evil 5 is important to play becuase its 
 wil continue the story and u will learn about how the t virus stared and ecc and this is the best 
 part!! wesker is back! and he is very powerful but i want spoil anything about the story, u have 
 many guns to use and more then RE4, no merchant this time but u will have the intermission shop 
 and when u die before u start agian the shop will appear. the graphics are amazing like metal gear 
 solid 4!! after u beat the game there is alot and alot things to do like mercineries and to get 
 all giuns with unlimited ammo trophies co play with friends and ecc.
  
  I suggest all fans to get this ganeme for the ps3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keough_7
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Great game a little dissapointing on how short it was but overall the gameplay made up for it.
 
  
  Has a great multiplayer co-op function which is like 10 times cooler than beating the game by yourself.
 
  
  Kind of dissapointed on how they took out the case to hold your stuff in in Resident evil 4 but 
 the quick select isn't bad it could be better if you could hold a couple more items but whatever, 
 I also like the fact on how it shows your wepons on your back unlike Resident evil 4 where you 
 just take your weapon out of nowhere.
  
  Don't like how you buy and upgrade weapons disappointed that the Merchant is gone.
  
  Bosses 
 are overall pretty good but aren't all that challenging 
  
  Favorite part was either the village or the boat.
  
  Mecenaries is great accept for the reason 
 that they only have 4 characters but is overall highly addictive co-op and single player, they 
 should have put Louis, Hunk and Leon in there.
  
  The new online vs mode is allright but kind of difficult because you have to stop and shoot, and 
 i don't much care for the scoring system.
  
  
  
  Overall good game, could have been better with some things from resident evil 4 in it but o well.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 6:34 am PT
Review:  As many Resident Evil fans, including myself, have spent many hours beheading our favorite Umbrella 
 creations after Resident Evil 4 came out the genre took a different approach.
  
  New Virus had been found and once again it's used for testing of creating perfect next evolution 
 of human race.
  
  Las Plagas was the name and if you haven't guessed already a new and improved version of the same 
 incarnation has been unleashed in African nation of Kijuju and this time around it's former S. T. A. R. S. 
 Alpha team member Chris Redfield is an agent of the B. S. A. A. Which translates as: anti-bio-organic 
 weapon organization that travels the globe to seek out and destroy Umbrella's creations.
  
  Chris gets the info on a well known B. O. W. (Bio-organic Weapons) smuggler shortly named Irving 
 and Alpha team has already infiltrated and secured the area.
  
  Upon arriving at Kijuju Chris gets greeted by Sheva Alomar, a local B. S. A. A. agent and both of 
 them join forced to fight both the updated version of RE4 Las Plagas as well as completely new 
 creation nicknamed as: Uroboros.
  
  The biggest aspect here is that the game campaign is fully co-op playable off-line and online. 
 This of course works both ways, if you find a mature person to play with online it's a blast but 
 good luck with that.. most people will just rush through in their own pace and won't provide any 
 kind of support or cover.
  
  Want an advice? Get a friend you know and you will have a blast.
  
  The whole game is structured 
 for Co-op gameplay. Sheva as A. I. is mixed bag, sometimes she will do things right, sometimes she 
 won't fire when you need her and you can rest assured that she will burn the ammo like Arnold did 
 in Commando movie without hesitation. There are two options available to give her (Hold O button 
 for few seconds) , one is "Attack" and other is "Cover". The later version is what I like to keep 
 her at even though it gave me few deaths due to A. I. not recognizing when to shoot. 
  Those were rare situations but they did occur, if I set her to "Attack" no money in the world will 
 be enough to buy/find her enough ammo, however you can count on her expert shooting. Sheva will 
 rarely miss which is handy.
  
  Tip: Having a hard time shooting bosses? Give Sheva the weapons that hurt and watch her do so some 
 serious pain-whooping. 
  
  For Resident Evil fans there are old character that will eventually pop-in and overall story holds 
 well even though I wouldn't consider it deeper or engaging as previous installments. 
  This might be because of very action packed gameplay. Basically, this is Resident Evil 4 in High 
 Definition but with more, much more action.
  
  You can forget about word "Survival Horror" since the best way to describe RE5 for me would be: 
 "Heavy Third Person Action game in Resident Evil world".
  
  Some will enjoy the change and others, like myself, will hunger for classic Resident Evil style 
 - I want to shoot ZOMBIES!! ;)
  
  Regardless, the game itself is great, as long as you take it for what it is - Action Third Person 
 Shooter. 
  There are barely few puzzles, if you can call them that, but they are extremely easy and just a 
 quick short break before you resume the slaughter. Speaking of enemies, they are pretty well diverse 
 until you come up to the later stages in the game where they are the same thing with just few tweaks 
 here and there.
  
  This is one of my complains as well, while the game is well paced in the later missions it feels 
 like it's just being prolonged and you're being forced to battle hordes of enemies just for the 
 sake of it.
  Another little issue. I believe it's time to change the shooting mechanic.
  
  If RE5 was Survival Horror game I probably wouldn't complain much about it since it works, 
 however in such a heavy action game it's time to add some movements while you shot numerous folks 
 that pretty much need two or three and sometimes just one swing to end your life.
  
  It worked in RE4 but this is 2009 year and Dead Space proved that it works and it's much more enjoyable 
 to walk and shoot in such game genres. 
  I wouldn't want to see running and gunning since that would tarnished the game but I have to agree 
 I would welcome ability to walk and shoot at the same time, not that I had any issues with current 
 approach but maybe it's something to consider if Capcom decided to give us another action based 
 Resident Evil.
  
  Other then those two aspects and of course Resident Evil almost becoming fully realized Action 
 shooter the game itself looks fantastic, sound fantastic and runs superb. Installation will take 
 about 5Gig's of data on your hard-drive but the game loads extremely fast and it's one of the best 
 looking games around. Textures are sharp, shadows and lighting is excellent. When you enter dark 
 spaces from light surroundings area it will take few seconds for your eyes to adjust, it's a nice 
 effect.
  
  Overall, visuals are very good and won't disappoint and neither will some of the cut-scenes in 
 the game which are brilliant and exiting to watch.
  One particular addition I enjoyed the most was in Options Menu.
  
  Files: As you progress thought 
 the game, Files on different people and locations will be available to read upon, this goes back 
 into shorter but well explained characteristics. I very much enjoyed reading on history of Resident 
 Evil and new comers to the genre will find good amount of info.
  
  There is tons of re-playability here to find with New Game + allowing you to use unlimited ammo 
 (which you have to unlock first separately for each weapon you choose) as well as playing as Sheva.
 
  Mercenary mode is back and it's exactly what it was before, within time limit that you can extend 
 you job is to combine kills for combo points.
  Standard aspect, get a friend and blast away. 
  
  There are tons of figurines to unlock, numerous 
 guns to upgrade. The first play through for myself who plays games in slower pace was a solid 11-12 
 hours but this gets shut down more then 2X respectively when you're in New Game Plus.
  
  Most players will find themselves playing it at least one more time because it's fun to blast those 
 Majini with full arsenal of unlimited ammo.
  
  Overall, the change and direction Resident Evil 5 went with is something you adjust to. It's true 
 that I would love to see classic RE game (hopefully in future) but for what it describes itself 
 it's a great action game. 
  Chris was always my favorite character and he is kick-a** pain bringing dude in this one. Without 
 spoilers, there are familiar folks also in the game and Sheva is no Jill Valentine but she is lovable, 
 sexy and respectable fighter and partner. 
  
  If you're hardcore Resident Evil fan or just love Action Third Person shooting I definitely recommend 
 the game for purchase.
  
  It might not be what long time RE fans are use to but in it's own right it's a well done game experience 
 that shouldn't be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatSTERLINkid
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 9, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  ~The game is graphically stunning, one of the few games out there with the most realistic visuals/graphics 
 both in-game and during cut-scenes , even in 480p (standard definition)
  
  ~The story is great, giving the player something that will pull him/her in and keep them from wanting 
 to turn it off, newcomers and Resident Evil Fans alike.
  
  ~The in-game inventory is an amazing add to the Resident Evil series, making it faster/easier to 
 change weapons without having to pause the game.
  
  ~The co-op in the game is also an amazing add to the Resident Evil series, now you and your Partner 
 (A. I., Splitscreen, or Online) can play the campaign from start to finish. 
  
  ~When finding gold/money/treasure in RE5's campaign online, both players receive the gold, not 
 just the one who finds it.
  
  ~There is a wide variety of weapons, which can all be upgraded (excluding the Rocket Launcher and 
 Grenade Launcher of course)
  
  ~Every boss fight in the game is so epic/big they literally feel as if they should be the final 
 boss.
  
  ~The game has a VERY high replay value, not just in the campaign, but in modes such as Mercenaries 
 and Versus. These modes are both very addicting, they provide a challenge AND competition for the 
 #1 spot on the leader-boards.
  
  
  The Bad:
  ~Sheva's A. I offline (or Chris' if you beat the game and wish to play as Sheva) is pretty poor, 
 it uses ammo really quickly, and occasionally gets in the way of where you need to go if you're 
 trying to turn around.... -*HINT* ... however if you give the A. I. a Rifle, it is very helpful and 
 all the traits i mentioned seem to vanish little by little as you play-
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anzelm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 4:28 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the best looking games I have ever played. The graphics is stunning and the transition 
 from the dark earlier installments into the light of this one is just so nicely done. Some say 
 that isn't true to the Resident Evil roots but I think that this is the right thing to do with 
 the series. 
  
  The background story is the final (?) chapter of Chris Redfield vs Umbrella so if you've played 
 the first four (or five including Code Veronica) games you should recognize the story and game 
 play. If you haven't, don't worry because you just visit the library in the menu screen and read 
 the background story.
  
  All the best parts of Resident Evil 4 is back but so is unfortunately some of the bad parts as 
 well. The control scheme is the same and so is the fact that you have to stand still in order to 
 shoot. It actually doesn't bother me since it adds some intensity to the game. What does bother 
 me is the fact that Chris can't seem to turn his head. If you want to look to the side you have 
 to turn your character around. That fact is what take away a perfect score in my opinion. The new 
 co-op could be a great feature but I haven't had the chance to try it out yet. The AI of Sheva 
 is ok when playing single player. It's only during the last boss fight shes kind of stupid but 
 in all it's not a bad AI.
  
  RE 5 offers a lot of value for your money. If you want to get all treasures, all unlockables and 
 so on you have to play through the game at least two to three times. The first play through takes 
 12 to 15 hours. When playing you get points after each chapter based on your performance. You use 
 the points to unlock figurines for example. After playing a chapter you can choose to replay that 
 chapter whenever you want to improve your score. 
  
  There is a fun system for upgrading weapons as well. In order to upgrade you have to collect gold 
 and find treasures that you sell to get more gold. You will not be able to upgrade all weapons 
 to the max on the first play through which also adds to the replay value.
  
  This might not be the most frightening RE game but it sure is fun anyway. The new direction of 
 the game is good. It's not just a new RE game it also stands on it's own. This is a masterpiece 
 and it is a must play game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darryl_Green
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  Ok so Resident Evil 5 is here everybody has played it and reviewed it. So what's my take on it? 
 Well Resident Evil 5 is great fun to play with one of your buddies, but this is one of the most 
 overrated games on the market currently. The gameplay is solid but has a few flaws. The story you 
 would be able to care less about including the characters. Also the survivor horror feel of the 
 original games is almost totally gone in favor of an action/adventure style of game. 
  
  
  First let's start off with the story. Now if I were to grade the game's plotline on an A to 
 F scale this would get a solid C to C-. The story in this game is so disjointed that newcomers 
 to the series will have no clue what is going on, although it is enough to push what happens in 
 the game along the "stop a bio terrorist" kind of story doesn't fit well with a series as long 
 and complex as Resident Evil. Also many events and characters that helped shape the series storyline 
 are briefly mentioned or don't come up at all, especially a certain woman in red fans are all familiar 
 with who played a major role in the previous installment should've been included in this installment 
 as well. Now Resident Evil has never been known for great storytelling, but at least it had a solid 
 enough story to push along the events that transpire throughout the game. With games such as Fallout 
 3, GTA IV, and MGS4 telling such great and intricate stories last year you'd think Takeuchi-san 
 and the gang would take a few notes from those games. And for trying to wrap up a story that's 
 supposed to be "the last of its kind" you'd think they would try to wrap every single loose end 
 in the series and not make new ones. On top of all that the dialogue in this game is so ridiculous 
 at times it's hard to take the characters seriously let alone care about them.
  
  
  
  Next let's move on to the gameplay. Now the game so far has some pretty solid game mechanics, but 
 there was one thing that still bugged the hell out of me the most. Why in the hell could I not 
 move and fire at the same time? Seriously every single 3rd person shooter that has come out in 
 the past two years have caught on to this trend and has implemented this into the gameplay. Why 
 Resident Evil continues its nefarious trend to linger in the shadows of other games that have innovated 
 and improved upon gameplay mechanics I do not know. At first it was fine seeing as it was Resident 
 Evil, but as you move along into the later stages of the game it becomes a useful function you 
 wish you had. Otherwise that was my main gripe about the game, but outside that the game is a top 
 notch third person shooter. Shooting mechanics feel just right with the exception of the sniper 
 rifle which in my personal opinion is a tad too shaky when trying to fire at enemies. Weapons feel 
 deadly, powerful, and don't make you feel too overpowering which was one of my main gripes about 
 Resident Evil 4. Also if you have the option of playing online you better take full advantage of 
 it because the Sheva AI; although is vigilant about keeping you alive and protecting you, the inability 
 to strategize with her becomes very frustrating especially in the later stages of the game. On 
 top of that for some odd reason she has a real knack for stupidity, waste ammo when conservation 
 is the wiser decision, and not follow orders when needed. Aside from these problems the AI is better 
 than most other AI partners I've gotten stuck with in the past, and these problems although at 
 times occur when they don't need to Sheva is still reliable 90% of the time as a partner.
  
  Resident Evil 5 by is far one of the most stunning titles I've seen on any next-gen console 
 this generation. It may not be Killzone 2, Gears of War 2, or Metal Gear Solid 4 but there's no 
 denying that Resident Evil 5 definitely a top-notch looking game. All of the models look fantastic 
 and realistic, although the oversized Chris Redfield still bugs me (maybe he took steroids sometime 
 between Umbrella Chronicles and RE5) . Also the models do an excellent job at conveying the emotions 
 their perspective voice actors attempt to convey. The environments are gorgeous to look at and 
 are detailed quite well. Also the cut-scenes were shot very well and often make you feel like you're 
 watching a movie. 
  
  Resident Evil 5's sound effects and score are nothing short of quality work. Each track in the 
 game fits each scenario very well, but at times can sound a bit awkward at first. All of the weapons 
 sound powerful. The sound of crushed skulls at the bottom of Chris's heel, slashing melee weapons, 
 and explosions all sound gruesomely real.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is by no means a bad game although there are quite a few problems with it, I still 
 had a good time playing. Online co-op is a definite blast with a buddy, but the AI as annoying 
 as it can be at times is still a useful. The story feels like it was completely tacked on at the 
 last minute, and for a game that has such a long and complex story to wrap it should finally tie 
 up loose ends instead of making new ones. Resident Evil 5 really feels like it's just trying to 
 mimic its predecessors' success, and what was great back in '05 and works for a game of that generation 
 is starting to feel stale on next-gen consoles. Although it's great fun from start to finish, RE5 
 is a bit of a disappointing entry in the long running series.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 2:40 am PT
Review:  My sister does her second review on Gamespot, for Resident Evil 5.
  
  This time Resident Evil isn't located in an abandoned house or a freaky town but the sunny Africa. 
 You play with old familiar Chris Redfield who has become member of the BSAA, an organisation against 
 bio-terrorism. Together with Sheva Alomar, member of the African branch of BSAA, you need to investigate 
 what's going on in Kijuju. 
  
  The game is built from the start with a co-op option in the back of the mind. During the single 
 player you'll often have to give a colleague tasks like opening a door, turning levers or holding 
 a lamp. But of course it's much more fun when the AI of Sheva gets taken over by the skills of 
 one of your buddies. Your screen then gets split in two, left top and right bottom a square, to 
 start shooting zombies together. Of course there's also an online co-op present which compensates 
 for the lesser offline version and allows for the fullscreen experience of your adventures.
  
  As I already said before the horror is almost completely gone in the game. You do feel rushed, 
 tense and paranoid but at no time did I get scared out of my seat by a zombie or a raging dog. 
 The controls still feel "Resident Evil": slow and sturdy, and although this isn't a downpoint the 
 makers may start thinking about other ways to build tension. The opponents are often equally well-armed 
 as yourself which results in taking more cover and shooting more careful than before.
  
  Even Rian would say no to this tongue kissA new feature in the game is the possibility to upgrade 
 your weapons. Those that you find or buy during the campaign can be improved in different aspects. 
 Little modifications like capacity, reload speed, fire power and critical hit rate will come in 
 handy as you progress. Also the large diversity of arms is welcomed with open arms. Shotguns, rocket 
 launchers, machine guns, rifles, ... you name it! All have the same function: taking down the for 
 once dark-colored zombies.
  
  The spectacular bosses are backResident Evil 5 is certainly not repetitive. Tons of different enemies, 
 surroundings and as earlier stated weapons make for the necessary variation. From an abandoned 
 African village through a dark mine or a swamp area where your hovercraft comes in handy. Also 
 the many endbosses, where you each time have to find their weak spot, make for plenty of excitement.
 
  
  Graphically things look more than ok. The characters are so detailed that you can even see Redfield's 
 veign pulsate on his muscular (long live steroids!) arm. Thanks to the life-like animations and 
 camera control the game looks a lot more filmic and tons better than the Resident Evil movies. 
 Gorgious sundowns, dusty roads and overall very atmospheric environments make for a realistic experience 
 that lifts the game to a higher level.
  
  Also quite a lot of extras after and during play of the single player campaign are offered. Each 
 level can be finished again in a better time or you can go look for remaining emblems, gold pieces, 
 weapons or treasures that you hadn't added to your collection. Also new costumes, game options, 
 graphical filters and more can be unlocked which assures that you'll play the game more than once.
 
  
  After finishing you can also get started with a completely new mode called Mercenaries. Here you 
 need to kill as many opponents as possible and try to survive until help arrives. This can also 
 be played in co-op which will bring a lot of fun.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glokwerk
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I have never been a big fan of the Resident Evil series but this game is amazing. It is one of 
 those games that surpassed all my expectations, and left me hooked. Everything about this game 
 is astounding; graphics, controls, and the multiplayer.
  
  The controls are suprisingly easy to get the hang of, and are nearly perfect. The one thing that 
 put me off at first was that you can not move while aiming any of your weapons (i'm a big FPS payer) , 
 but after a while it is no longer a hinderance to the gameplay. The best part is the CO-OP story 
 mode, you pretty much have to play this game with another person, or else your so called 'helper' 
 is pretty much worthless (you will spend more time saving her than playing the game) . The cutscenes 
 with button commands are interesting but not too difficult to keep up with.
  
  The in game graphics in this game are some of the best I have seen on the PS3 so far, everything 
 looks fantastic especially water (which most other games fail miserably at) . The entire game is 
 like playing one long beautiful cutscene, and at no point have I been dissapointed by the graphics. 
 Probably my favourite part of this game to watch are the deaths, which I promise you will witness 
 several times per level, especially any chainsaw related one.
  
  The Co-op play is astounding, it makes for some really fun gameplay and at no point does this make 
 the game easy. This actually increases the difficulty especially when dealing with items and ammo, 
 we spent a lot of time organizing the items as far as who has what and swapping items in play makes 
 boss battles interesting and difficult. We went with me having a handgun and shotgun, and my friend 
 used machine gun and rifle. It seemed I would always find his ammo and he would find mine which 
 made swapping a constant thing. This may sound like a negative aspect of the game but really it 
 adds so much strategy and you must cooperate, lone wolf behavior will result in a pretty quick 
 and gruesome death.
  
  With superior graphics, excellent gameplay, and an astounding co-op story mode Resident Evil 5 
 is a must have for the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFinalFantasy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 7:48 am PT
Review:  Yup. it was satisfactory game. not exactly Mind Blowing. nor is it real scary till you wet parts 
 of your pants. actually. this game is Not scary AT ALL. this is more like. See Monsters. Kill Monsters 
 game. not your average Resident Evil i might add.
  
  the game is Geared towards action more than Survival Horror. but as action game. it is actually 
 quite good.
  
  As the Story goes. it Played out Cliche but as much cliche as it may. it turns out to be quite 
 good. the Story is definitely not about Escaping a Bio-hazardous City. but actually. finding a 
 lost partner. and killing the bad guy and saving the world. Umbrella Corporation is just gone in 
 this story. instead you get yourself TRICELL. maybe. this was expected since Resident Evil Degeneration 
 actually hinted us about Tricell.
  
  Graphic wise. lets just say. CAPCOM created a great graphic looking game. Beautiful lighting. sharp 
 textures. detailed environments. Expressive characters. Smooth Animations. Pre-Rendered Cut Scenes. 
 definitely one of the best looking games out there. if not the best. but since i haven't actually 
 got a chance to play anything else except for the limited amount of video games i have on 7th Gen 
 Consoles. its not my part to judge.
  
  Gameplay wise. Well. you have your main and partners characters from Beginning to the end. Sheva 
 Alomar. and Chris Redfield. (i have to say. Sheva turned out to be such a beautiful game chick. 
 i may even have to swallow my pride and look like a goof telling everyone how pretty she is.) . 
 Chris is definitely one of those really stubborn to die person. he's been fighting these creatures 
 since they were in a Mansion back in Resident Evil 1. but the Character Design. may not be as Realistic 
 as i hope it would be for Chris. they designed him in a way that he looks like he took too much 
 Steroids. and yes. i've mentioned Sheva Alomar. 23 years old. i'd date her if she was real. Sheva 
 turned out to be quite a Competent Partner. only if she was armed with a Machine Gun that deals 
 considerable amount of damage per shot. and a Rifle. probably. Handguns on your Partner? i don't 
 think so. they'd spam the ammo. like there is nothing wrong (there is nothing wrong. Ammunition 
 will be available EVERYWHERE. maybe not for magnum bullets and grenade rounds. but the rest are. 
 but their accuracy is a bless. i'd probably have to thank the AI mostly for actually being useful 
 in dire situations.
  
  Overall. The Game is good. Really Good. it don't really live up to people's expectations. but i 
 am sure people do enjoy playing the game. and of course. even if you finished it once. playing 
 it all over again is Inevitable. real addictive. and so. i am going to start my second play-through 
 now.
  
  Elfy Eikal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: game-dna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:37 am PT
Review:  I really liked RE5 lots of reviews on here are really mixed. some say it's good and some say it's 
 bad maybe people were expecting a complete makeover of previous games.
  
  The graphics are crisp and looks great with no frame rate drops or anything. (9.5/10)
  
  sound 
 is great it's all you'd expect from a RE title. (10/10)
  
  The Game play was good the character handles like Leon did in RE4 , in lots of ways this is the 
 same game. You have a partner this time round and she can surely hold her own and it makes the 
 game less scary, not that it really is scary in any way. One thing is for sure the AI is a little 
 trigger happy and will waste more ammo than you but it does depend what weapon you give her. i 
 swapped weapons regularly keeping my ammo stocks balanced. But that aside the whole partner idea 
 made the game so much more enjoyable than any predecessor. Gameplay gets a (10/10) .
  
  The story was good but not as strong as in RE4, i don't want to give much away. there's a new bio 
 weapon and some old enemies and some new. i believe it's save to say that the T and G virus are 
 now behind us, and no matter how cool it was the trade off is pretty awesome. The story is pretty 
 solid and i just enjoy the cut scenes they are done very well, almost just as good as metal gear 
 and that's really saying a lot. (9.5/10)
  
  Then re playability: this game has lots and lots of that!! i mean in the game you have 30 BSAA 
 badges that you can collect. weapons that you have to upgrade , trophy's to collect and figurines 
 to unlock, the mercenaries mode, filters to change the look or sound of the game. etc. bla bla 
 bla. 
  
  Great game can't wait to play with Chris in future installments of RE. Leon isn't too bad but i 
 love Chris i mean RE did begin with him and Jill. peace out hope the review helps, but keep in 
 mind it only reflects my own personal opinion thereof.
  
  Peace out.
  (subliminal message)
  get this game!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: taplok
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:49 am PT
Review:  i Seemed to have lost my interest with Resident Evil games lately, felt it was repetitive and some 
 other isues such as long loading times upon entering rooms, etc... honestly, i didn't like the 
 feel of RE4 so i didn't give it enough playing time. Because of that, i have some doubts of getting 
 Resident Evil 5, for its gameplay is kinda similar with 4. but then, i got a text messge from my 
 game store and got it without any plans... Surprisingly, i liked it and it brought my interest 
 back, to the story and the characters. the scare-factor was lessen, thus the action was raised 
 to a higher level... i didn't have much problems with the controls like other players, i feel it 
 was very RE-like and a bit improved, and got used to it after a few hours of playiing. i also like 
 the boss battles, especially the big ones... Good range of weapons and upgrade system. its not 
 near perfect but i really enjoyed playing it, i got my money's worth! i'm glad i picked up this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 18, 2009 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I was skeptical about how good this game would come out. With all the hype, then less than stellar 
 "Best game of the year" reviews, I thought RE5 would just be another game. Though it is not scary, 
 why would it be if it was. We all know what to expect and the monsters are not novel anymore, so 
 why would you care for this to be scary. I will say that they should have made things appear more 
 shocking, because some enemies were horrific, but the game makes them appear to be your everyday 
 best pal. Though it is weird, it works I guess to a certain extent. The story wise, it is cliche 
 RE style. Corny voice acting and predictable story. I couldn't believe how straight forward the 
 story was, but is was still enjoyable. The game should be played on co-op because it is a lot of 
 fun this way and less frustrating.
  
  The game mechanics are not that annoying, but they mess you up when your trying to kill some one 
 of run away. I find it dumb that AI will run up to you, then stop on a dot and walk slowly up to 
 yet so you can aim at gun at their head, while they are looking at you do it, and blast them. Yeah, 
 seems a little foolish. Also running away and shooting annoying. Its doesn't really get old, but 
 I would like to be able to walk backwards or forward, side ways whatever while I am shooting my 
 victim. I like to hide behind a wall then walk out and sniper someone to death, but you really 
 can't do that hear. The cover system is random because you can only do it when the games finds 
 it suitable, not when you do. Same thing with jumping. I do not understand why I have to run to 
 a certain side of a cliff to jump off when that damn bottom is the same level everywhere. Oh because 
 the little rocks are in my way. Yes this getting annoying because you do not have control over 
 the game, more or less, the game controls you. Boss battles in horror games have never made sense 
 to me because sometimes it seems like bosses want to get killed. They are more powerful, yet they 
 allow you to shoot, hit, and dodge them. Wesker is a "god" yet he can't kill us. Anyway, bosses 
 in Silent Hill homecoming were a little more intense and realistic than this because bosses actually 
 attack you. Compared to Dead space, this game is just lacking in every department, but on its own, 
 it is a great game.
  
  The gameplay, though old school, stills feels fresh compared to F. E. A. R. 2 use of old school controls. 
 Sheva is one bad b*tch I would love to spank and Chris is a buff MF. While playing to game, I couldn't 
 understand why people who appear to be models were saving the world. Never has made sense to me. 
 Anyway, co-op is the route to go because Sheva seems to waste ammo like Fox news wastes our time. 
 There are more guns this time around which means more action. Puzzles are limited which I appreciate 
 because I hate how this series and Silent Hill make this a big part of gameplay. Luckily they kills 
 this during pre production which makes me happy. The graphics are mouth watering too.
  
  Overall I enjoyed RE5. Sheva was fine as hell, bosses (yet easy at times) were intense and crazy 
 to watch, the cinematic style of the game was Hollywood work and the game was just fun, though 
 frustrating at times due to these RE4 gaming mechanics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Playaspike
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:08 pm PT
Review:  I want to say this is my first game for the PS3, my learning curve for the contorls... Let's just 
 say, I wanted to fire with 'X' and jump with square. I noticed that "Sixaxis" was there. I would 
 think that Capcom with use this feature in this game. I would like it when the zombie holds you. 
 I would like to shake the controller rather than used the joystick to shake them off.
  
  The storyline was great, it kept me thinking. But, I knew what was going to happen before it would 
 happen. There were some elements of the gameplay that threw me off like some of the puzzles. Also, 
 the ending was really threw me off, I wish the whole game was like this, but if the game was like 
 that, I wouldn't think anyone would buy it. I know this is part of series, I am not sure that there 
 would another game after this. I know the movies took a left turn in the storyline.
  
  The graphics were great that HDMI helps out a lot. The in-game graphics and the movie games are 
 getting to that point I couldn't tell if I was playing or the AI. There are still some elements 
 that make it feel like a cartoon. You know when you watch "Tom and Jerry" and the object is a shade 
 different. I noticed that from the beginning of the game towards the end of game that CG becoming 
 poor. The characters in the cut-scenes were highly detailed and grow and at the end of game - it 
 look like they ran out of time to make it better.
  
  The music were OK. There was never a time that I had out of sit. There were never dead noise to 
 make me slow down or watch out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2009 9:32 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5  PlayStation 3 Review by | Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller |
  
  
  *****1. Introduction*****
  
  
  The highly anticipated game wish list of the year and one 
 of the most highly acclaimed horror game series ever made, Resident Evil 5 is here. I've played 
 the crap out of it, experienced everything I could experience from it, but was it what I expected? 
 I was expecting something more than great; I was expecting something so much more Was it what 
 I expected? Read on and find out what I thought.
  
  *****2. The Plot*****
  
  
   Main Story
  
  The main story is set in the present time in Africa as you play Chris Redfield, 
 a former member of S. T. A. R. S. and one of the main characters in the Resident Evil series, as well 
 as being one of the first main playable character in the original Resident Evil game back in 1996, 
 making an appearance in Resident Evil: Code Veronica back in 2000, and with the Resident Evil remake 
 in 2002. Unlike back in the good old day, Chris will no longer be threatened my flesh eating zombies 
 instead, a new type off enemy that doesn't just went to eat his flesh or just chew away at his 
 neck as they grab him, but instead inflict physical pain, brutality and violence and pretty much 
 make his life a living hell as much as they can. 
  
  After a long journey over winding African roads, the lone vehicle finally stops near Kijuju. From 
 it emerges one man: Chris Redfield. He's looking around when, suddenly, she appears. 
  "Welcome to Africa. I'm Shevia Alomar."
  Shaking her outstretched hand, he realizes that he's 
 got some assistance for this mission. In his line of work, partners are people that come and go. 
 He wonders whether it's really worth risking his life to protect the world. That's a question that 
 he can't answer yet, but there is one thing that he does know for sure: there's something he need 
 to do. 
  
  The story is quite good but pretty much like the other Resident Evil games, sometimes the story 
 can feel a little ridicules at time with over-the-top boss mutations which everyone who knows the 
 Resident Evil series will come to expect, but it's not too ridicules to make the story painful 
 to follow. However the story does feel as if there really just doing anything now just to keep 
 the Resident Evil series going and to probably see how far they can go with the series. The Resident 
 Evil series really did end after Resident Evil 3, with three great games which you could even call 
 classics, but with Resident Evil 4, and 5, it feel like they've just taken the old characters and 
 the Resident Evil name and made up something entirely different.
  
   The Main Characters 
  
  The characters in Resident Evil 5 are just like the pervious Resident 
 Evil characters and other Capcom characters, great. You well see new as well as a few old characters 
 from the previous Resident Evil games.
  
  Chris Redfield:
  One of the main members of S. T. A. R. S. Chris Redfield was sent to investigate what is now called 
 the Mansion Incident from the first Resident Evil and one of the few survivors of the mission. 
 Chris kept a low profile after the Mansion Incident, until after the Racconn City Incident Chris 
 later came out of hiding and joined the B. S. A. A. (Bio-terrorism Security Assessment Alliance) Chris 
 has dedicated his life to stopping the Umbrella Corporations, and one man who betrayed him and 
 the S. T. A. R. S. unit, Albert Wesker. His observational skills, insight, and attack power are unparalleled 
 within the B. S. A. A., and years of experience have endowed him with the ability to adapt to a variety 
 of weapons. Since Umbrella's downfall, he has combated several biological threats throughout the 
 world, but with the hard fought victories has also come devastating tragedy.
  
  Sheva Alomar:
  Sheva is a new character to the Resident Evil series, a B. S. A. A. agent and an 
 African native whom aids Chris as his new partner. After the death of her parents, Sheva Alomar 
 joined a West African anti Government gorilla group. After being rescued by a Government agency 
 Sheva was sent to live in the United States. A number of years later Sheva graduating from college 
 and was recruited into the B. S. A. A. to combat Bio Terrorism in their West African Division. With 
 her skills in Guerrilla warfare, and her knowledge of the West African terrain she was the best 
 suited for her position. Later she is ordered to aid a B. S. A. A. agent from the United States who 
 is dispatched there to counter a bio terrorist threat. She joins this mission as Chris's partner
 
  
  Excella Gionne:
  Excella is new to the Resident Evil franchise. She was born into one of the elite families of Europe. 
 She is a direct descendant of one of the founders of Tricell. Sent to the finest schools and Universities 
 in Europe, Excella quickly excelled as a young and gifted geneticist. With her superior intelligence, 
 charm, and lust for power she quickly climbed the ranks of Tricell to become one of the major CEO's. 
 As the overseer of a private project in West Africa, Excella has personally traveled there to meet 
 one of Tricell's affiliates who is heading up a secret projectAlbert Wesker. 
  
  Albert Wesker:
  He's back. Wesker made his appearance in the first Resident Evil as the commander 
 of the S. T. R. A. S. unit and leader of Alpha team. Chris Redfield and Jill Valentine find evidence 
 in the mansion's underground laboratory implicating Wesker as a member of the Umbrella research 
 staff. Wesker eventually reveals that he was ordered by his superiors at Umbrella to lure the S. T. A. R. S. 
 into the mansion, using them as test subjects against the mutated creatures to gather battle data. 
 Wesker is presumed dead, destroyed by his own creation, the Tyrant at the end of the first Resident 
 Evil. 
  Wesker makes another appearance in the later half of Code Veronica having survived his apparent 
 death in the first Resident Evil by injecting himself beforehand with an experimental virus provided 
 by his former colleague William Birkin. The virus brought him back to life, augmenting him with 
 superhuman strength and agility. Wesker appears as an agent working for an unnamed secret organization 
 against Umbrella. Chris and Wesker confront one another and Wesker escapes at the end of Code Veronica. 
 
  Wesker makes yet other appearances in the Resident Evil remake and Resident Evil Zero as well as 
 in Resident Evil 4 as a conspirator manipulating events from behind the scenes. He is a central 
 character in The Umbrella Chronicles, where he appears as a playable character in several of the 
 game's scenarios, expanding upon events alluded to in earlier games, as well as his involvement 
 in Umbrella's downfall after the events of Code Veronica and his development in Resident Evil 4.
 
  Surprise, surprise Wesker make yet another appearance in Resident Evil 5 but now has his plan 
 ready and set to launch a global operation, starting in Africa.
  
  The Plot Score 6/10
  
  
  
  
  *****3. The Graphics*****
  
  
  What did you expect? It's Capcom for crying 
 out loud. Capcom is one of those company, like Konami and Square Enix and so on, that it doesn't 
 matter if the game is poor, there visuals are always ether close to amazing or, outstanding. And 
 Resident Evil 5's visuals are, outstanding. Everything from the characters and background rendering 
 to the small details and textures are mind-blowing. Zooming in on Sheva with the sniper rifle and 
 getting a close up look at her face (or anywhere else) and seeing the details close up are very 
 impressive, but not just on Sheva, but the background and enemies as well. The first level in Resident 
 Evil 5 is definitely made for one reason, and that reason is to show of the visuals, and the look 
 of Africa and to tell you the truth, I was blow away. Africa is a hot country as you all know, 
 but playing the first few level in Resident Evil 5 I really did feel the heat, the way the sun 
 glared in the sky and the sunlight bouncing of the hot sand on the ground is just amazing, but 
 don't just taking my word for it. 
  
  The Graphics Score 10/10
  
  
  
  
  *****4. The Game-Play*****
  
  The game-play to me is one of (If not most) important aspects 
 of any game. If the control layout take time to get used to, or the feel of game-play is frustrating 
 to play, than that can turn even the most beautiful looking game into, "It's just a game." Or a 
 game you probably want think twice over. The game-play in Resident Evil 5 are pretty good, but 
 if you hoping for new additions to the game-play from Resident Evil 4, then you may be disappointed. 
 The game-play is exactly the same as Resident Evil 4 and sometime feels as if they just took the 
 game-play from Resident Evil 4 and just throw it in ether due to laziness, or they couldn't make 
 a better game-play or they thought the people (us) would appreciate the old Resident Evil 4 style 
 over the shoulder game-play more than anything else. Personally I would have preferred the old 
 school Resident Evil style game-play. But that doesn't mean the game-play is bad, it certainly 
 is not.
  
  
   Controls
  
  As said above the controls are exactly the same as Resident Evil 4, the camera view is always over 
 Chris's right shoulder, (or if your playing co-op, over Sheva's left shoulder. Sheva is left handed.) 
 which can make it sometime hard to see if enemies are coming from the left (or right) . You can 
 aim in Resident Evil 5 (naturally) , which was a big thing when Resident Evil 4 came out, being 
 the first Resident Evil game with a proper aiming system. Even though it is good to aim, you want 
 really experience or feel anything new in Resident Evil 5 in terms of game-play (unless you've 
 never played Resident Evil 4) .
  You can ready your weapon and aim at your enemy's legs, arms, head, body or wherever you wish, 
 but like Resident Evil 4 you cannot walk or run and aim at the same time like most games nowadays. 
 When you reload your weapon, Chris (or anyone else your playing) cannot move from the spot while 
 reloading which mean, if you need to reload you'll need to be a quite far away from your enemies 
 to do so without getting hit. You can do action combo attacks that require you and your partner 
 to hit the action button at the right time to perform a combo attack. It does look pretty cool 
 but the combo attacks are quite limited. The healing system is quite good, you can heal yourself 
 and your partner at the same time (when close) and gain health depending on what you use like first 
 aids, herbs and mixed herbs. When close to death you are basically now in the red zoon and all 
 you can do is move away from danger. You can't shot, you can't run, all you can do is basically 
 wait for your partner to help you, which if your playing offline is pretty easy because your (computer) 
 partner is always behind you and will help you no matter what. Through the whole game your inventory 
 is limited to 9 slots and cannot be upgraded, which means you will have to really think hard about 
 collecting weapons, ammo and health items. Key items however do not require any inventory slots, 
 which is a big help. After every level (chapter) you will have the opportunity to buy and sell 
 weapons (from an unknown source. The merchant from Resident Evil 4 didn't make it into Resident 
 Evil 5) , upgrade weapons and reorganize yours and Sheva's inventory slots. You also have an off 
 game inventory where you can store any items or weapons you find as you play through the game. 
 The off game inventory has a total of 54 slots which is more than enough to store weapons and other 
 items you want to keep for later on. There are over 20 weapons to play around with in Resident 
 Evil 5 from standard handguns, shotguns, and sniper rifles to grenade launchers and rocket launchers, 
 as well as grenades and other weapons to unlock and find. The weapon are pretty sweet and they 
 all can be upgraded and become more powerful. And if that wasn't enough, every weapon you full 
 upgrade will unlock infinite ammunition for that weapon which you can exchange points for at the 
 bonus feature menu. There are a total of 16 level to go through and four different difficulty settings, 
 easy, normal, veteran and professional which will require you to complete veteran mode first to 
 unlock. Each difficulty setting is harder than the next (naturally) but even veteran mode can be 
 easier than you would expect if you use your head. If your playing on easy or even normal mode 
 you'll find you'll very rarely use grenades, so save them and put them into your off game inventory 
 if need them for veteran mode. Repeating the same level over and over again is very helpful, especially 
 a level with a lot of treasures, money, items and perhaps a weapon because they can all be added 
 on to your inventory as many times as you like, where you can just sell them for money to upgrade 
 your weapons and unlocking infinite ammunition, which is very helpful for veteran mode. There are 
 lots of treasures to find which you can sell for money in order to upgrade your weapons, or buy 
 new ones. The boss fight are quite good but like previous Resident Evil games, some (if not all) 
 of the boss mutations can feel a bit ridicules, but still look pretty impressive in how they did 
 the modeling and animation and just the basic ideas of the boss designs in Resident Evil are pretty 
 impressive (but still ridicules) . Like other Resident Evil boss fight, in Resident Evil 5 you'll 
 find yourself wasting all your ammunition before finding out you have to hit the bosses weak spot 
 about three or four times. At certain parts in the game it requires you and your partner to split 
 up, which is very good when playing in co-op. Playing offline however is ok but a bit annoying 
 because you can't communicate with the computer. Everything you can do in the game is pretty good, 
 but if you like playing co-op games, Resident Evil 5 is definitely a great game to play with a 
 friend. You can ether play with a friend or host a game and play with a stranger, ether way you'll 
 find the co-op mode more satisfying than playing the game on your own. When playing on your own 
 you may find Sheva's actions in game rather annoying. She tends to waste ammunition, and to make 
 it even more worse she like to remind you of the fact that she has no ammo, "I need ammo." She 
 good at giving you ammo and would gladly give you her last ammo, even if you don't want or need 
 it which will probably result in you giving the ammo back. She picks up anything she sees even 
 if you don't want her to pick something up. One thing she's good at is keeping you alive. Whenever 
 you are low on health and she has a health kit, she's not afraid to use it even if you or her are 
 surrounded by enemies. You can't really communicate with Sheva (playing offline) . If Sheva is far 
 away from you, you can call out to her with the O button, which basically tell her to get her ass 
 over here, and you can tell her to pick up an item, again by pressing the O button (incase she 
 doesn't pick it up anyway) . The game is meant to be played co-op, like in the case with some boss 
 fights, one will distracted the boss and the other will attack. Sheva (playing offline) always 
 stays behind you, even at boss fight, which can make it sometimes difficult for you to attack the 
 boss because, you and Sheva being together give the boss an advantage in hitting at lease one of 
 you. Playing co-op is a must with Resident Evil 5 and as great as the co-op was I can't help but 
 think how will they make the next Resident Evil (there will be more Resident Evil game) . To me 
 it feel like Resident Evil 5 was a test game for Capcom to see if they can make a co-op Resident 
 Evil, and I think they succeeded with the co-op play but, do I want them to continue with making 
 co-op games and making more Resident Evil game? Making different co-op I hope so yes, making another 
 Resident Evil not so much (even though they probably will) 
  
  7/10
  
  
   The feel
  
  The feeling when playing Resident Evil 5 is pretty good. It can be a bit annoying 
 if not frustrating when playing off line due to Sheva's A. I. system. It can also feel annoying 
 at the fact that you cannot aim and walk at the same time, or find yourself running around being 
 chased by enemies and looking for a good opportunity to reload your weapon without getting hit. 
 
  
  6/10
  
  The Game-Play Score 7/10
  
  
  
  
  *****5. The Sound*****
  
  
   Music
  
  The music is pretty standard I mean, it's not Devil May Cry music but it dose 
 a great job with keeping the flow of the game-play and with what's happening in the scene.
  
  9/10
  
  
   Sound Effects
  
  The sound effects again pretty standard and great. A 
 gunshot sounds like a gunshot. Explosions and what not all sound great and even better with surround 
 sound. 
  
  10/10
  
  
   Voice Acting
  
  The voice acting are impressive. Capcom are really getting better with the voice talents not like 
 the way it was back many years ago. Even though the voice talent where so unbelievably slow and 
 the responsiveness where rubbish, it always makes me laugh (in a good yeah) when I think about 
 them. I miss the good old days. But yeah, the voice talents in Resident Evil 5 (to me) where spot 
 on.
  
  10/10
  
  The Sound Score 10/10
  
  
  
  
  *****6. The Life Value*****
  
  
   Main Story Length 
  
  Resident Evil 5 will probably take you about 10 hours to finish 
 which is pretty decent for a survival horror game and a Resident Evil game.
  
  7/10
  
  
   Extra Content 
  
  The extra contents are great in Resident Evil 5. On top of the 51 trophies 
 to collect (If you're a trophy nut) there are a lot of things you can do to find and unlock. There 
 are 76 full body figures to unlock (that will make you wish they where real so you could collect 
 them yourself) of enemies and character, each brilliantly modeled and rendered and nicely posed. 
 You can go back and read fact files to brush up on your knowledge and the history of the Resident 
 Evil Series as well as character profiles. You can go back a watch your favorite cut scenes anytime 
 you want in the cut scene's menu which is pretty sweet (A feature I think should be in all games) . 
 There are Over 20 weapons as well as a lots of treasures and 4 hidden costumes to find and unlock, 
 and you can even change the filter settings if you wish. You can go back and play any level you 
 want (any completed levels) as many time as you want (naturally) which is a good way in upgrading 
 your weapons and find treasures quicker than playing the whole game again. Complete the story mode 
 with unlock The Mercenaries mode where you have to kill as may enemies and rank in as much points 
 as you can before the time limit end. There are four characters to play with in which two will 
 need to be unlocked. The Mercenaries mode is quite fun and can be played with a partner. There 
 are 30 B. S. A. A. symbols to find and destroy which will unlock new items in the bounce features 
 menu. 
  So to sum it up, the extra contents are very good if you like the sort of thing.
  
  7/10
  
  
   Replay Value 
  
  The replay value is pretty decent. There are a lot of 
 things to collect and unlock but after awhile the game can be quite boring when playing the same 
 levels over and over again in order to gain more money to upgrade weapons. The replay value is 
 great when you and your co-op buddy are playing together but playing on your own can be quite, 
 annoying and repetitive after awhile. 
  
  6/10
  
  The Life Value Score 6/10
  
  
  
  
  *****7. Additional*****
  
  
   A. I. System 
  
  The enemy A. I. is nothing really 
 much. Your enemies are stupid, I mean there not human what did you expect. They have no scene of 
 apprehension for their life (where you honestly expecting anything more?) or the lives of others. 
 All they do (if they see you) is run and attack.
  
  5/10
  
   Animation 
  
  The animation in the game is fantastic hands down. The way your character moves his or hers hips, 
 the way they walk, run and so on (In game-play) are bloody amazingly done. Some of the death scene 
 are quite brutally animated that may very well make you cringe a bit. The in games cut scenes are 
 very impressive and quite entertaining to watch. Some of the cut scene require you to press the 
 right button to proceed like repeatedly press the X button the run, or press the square button 
 to jump. Sometimes pressing the right button to even make ether Chris or Sheva shoot or to dodge. 
 Much like Resident Evil 4, but a lot more of it. Every time a cut scene comes on, remember not 
 to put your control down because you never know when you'll need to hit a specific button (On your 
 first play through)
  
  10/10
  
   Difficulty
  
  Resident Evil 5 is quite easy, maybe not your first time play though but once you know what your 
 doing and you know how to defeat a boss, veteran mode want look that scary.
  
  5/10
  
  Additional
  
  
  
  
  
  *****8. Closing Moments*****
  
  
   Game Information
 
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, the stronger the restriction)
  
  Violence: **** (Strong)
  Bad 
 Language: *** (Mild)
  Fear: ** (Very Mild)
  Sex: ** (Very Mild sexually references I. e. costumes) 
  Drugs: ** (Very Mild)
  Discrimination: 
 * (None)
  Gambling: * (None)
  
  Age Rating: 18 years and over for strong bloody violence 
  Number of player: 1-2
  Multiplayer: 
 Co-op
  SIXAXIS Motion Sensitive: No
  
  
  Games Difficulty: *** (Normal) 
  Trophy/Achievement Difficulty: *** (Normal, just takes patients)
  
  
  The good
  
   Visuals
 
   Sound-Effects
   Voice Acting
   Co-op
   Brutal
   Animation
   Weapons
   Just Right
   Extras
  
  
  The Bad
  
   Controls
   Story
   AI
   Repetitive 
 
   Single Player
  
  
   Overall Score 
  
  Story  6/10
  Graphics  10/10
  Game-play  7/10
  Sound  10/10
  Life-Value  6/10
  
  Overall Score  8/10
  
  *****9. 
 Final Thoughts*****
  
  
  Resident Evil 5 was one of the big games I was looking forward for in 2009 every since the first 
 announcement. Now that it's finally out and I got my hands on it like a child excited at Christmas, 
 I was somewhat disappointed after finishing the game. I'll tell you the truth, my first experience 
 with Resident Evil 5 was solo, yes I play the story mode in single player so take my word for it, 
 play with a friend. I did find Resident Evil 5 great when played in co-op mode however; I was really 
 expecting so much more in terms with game-play and excitement. I was excited when I first played 
 Resident Evil 5 (naturally) but after about half way though, I just wanted to finish the game just 
 to get the story mode over and done with. After awhile the game became a bit boring especially 
 coming toward the end. But, the game was good nevertheless. 
  So, if you like playing co-op games, like the Resident Evil series you probably will like Resident 
 Evil 5. 
  
  I personally give Resident Evil 5 a 7/10, which is good. Overall score, 8/10.
  
  
  By | Simon 
 a. k. a. TheDevilDweller | 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: commander_477
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  amazing..... but
  
  actually i like the game it's very nice and powerful specially the graph but what i dont like the 
 way of reloading i cant imagine that why i cant reloading while walking or running and this feather 
 make a big deference the characters we control they r professional and they must be able to do 
 that.
  
  ammmm
  at the end i like it
  
  :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D: D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
 :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: terminatorwotm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:27 pm PT
Review:  Just like GameSpot's review began, many years ago we were blessed with the birth of a pristine 
 quality horror game. Good graphics, controls, storyline and presentation, plus good scares (who 
 didn't jumped a bit when that dog just broke the window?) were the blended ingredients of a game 
 that really promised a lot (and absolutely had that feeling of "oh my God, sequel's on the way") . 
 Years passed, we got two sequels (Resident Evil 2 being my personal favourite. RE3 was just more 
 of a cash-in) and a terrible movie.
  
  Then Resident Evil 4 came in, and the hype around it was big. I mean, HUGE. When it finally arrived 
 on Nintendo's GameCube, of course we were all amazed by it. Excellent storyline, mindblowing graphics, 
 perfect control scheme, orchestrations and so on. Only a small problem made me weep a bit on the 
 inside: It somehow lost that feeling of scare and fearfulness that the other three previous main 
 games had. In a way, Resident Evil became just a shooter, instead of the good ol' survival horror. 
 I don't recall getting any good scare in RE4, only some chills in very coarse moments such as the 
 first encounter with the Regenerado monster.
  
  We get four more years and Resident Evil 5 lands. I can't lie, Chris Redfield back and a Umbrella-related 
 storyline really got me in the game. I was hyped by it, although deep inside I had that feeling 
 that it would play like RE4, without the scares and freezing chills that used to run down my spine 
 in RE and RE2. When I finally got my hands in the game, what a gleeful and a disappointing moment, 
 all hitting me at the same time. While the presentation and its unbelievably good graphics stunned 
 me in the beginning, as soon as I started playing it I went "meh." It'd became a Call of Duty-esque 
 shooting game instead of Resident Evil. Plus, zombie-fighting in broad daylight scares who, for 
 Jibbalazza's sake? Now, whether you're a fan or not, don't worry, you won't be thrashing about 
 in rage with RE5. It is a good-crafted game, and it will keep you playing it to the end. Plus, 
 it has trophies and achievements for beating the game, it gives it an additional replayability. 
 
  
  Sheva's AI wasn't that bad at all, although playing online brings much more fun than your ol' split 
 screen or 1P 'n CPU (I sympathise with reviewers who say that the co-op was a letdown in the series. 
 It's not something that fits in a RE-esque setting, although Capcom made a good job with what they 
 did.)
  
  Don't expect a control scheme like RE4. At least not exactly. It's quite well-crafted, but absolutely 
 DOES NOT plays as well as RE4's.
  
  Summing it up, chums, if you're a RE fan, haven't played the series in a while, or if you're just 
 a newcomer to it at all, please, give it a try. I assure you won't be disappointed (in the long 
 run at least.)
  
  ================================
  RESIDENT EVIL 5 (PLAYSTATION 3)
  Graphics: 10
  - Come on, less than 10 is a crime.
  Sound: 9.5
  - Awesome voice acting, weapon 
 sounds and the zombie moanings.
  Controls: 7.5
  - Jeez. I was expecting a smooth run, but it really took me a while.
  Replay: 8.5
  - Trophies 
 and Achievements, plus Online Play.
  
  Overall: 8.8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: octagonman
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:15 pm PT
Review:  Ask anyone who's ever even heard of Resident Evil, fan or not, what they think the Resident Evil 
 games are all about and, sure enough, most of them will tell you that the game is a survival horror. 
 
  
  Old school fans will tell you it's all about isolationism and trying to survive the grisly horrors 
 with very scarce ammo, running whenever you can, but most of all, they'll probably say the game 
 is about... zombies...
  
  Let me just start by saying that Resident Evil 5 has absolutely none of this. Yes, sorry old fans, 
 this game may not be anything like what you expect or want. However, that's not to say to say this 
 game is bad, as a matter of fact, it's quite amazing. Knowing all this may be a turn off to most 
 old fans, but luckily, this game may just be very welcoming to newcomers to the series.
  
  
  Now, let's get started...
  
  
  SETTING: 6.5/10
  Starting in a large mansion on the 
 outskirts of the small rural town of Raccoon City, Resident Evil games have many diverse locations 
 scattered across the world. 
  Resident Evil 5 takes place in the small, fictional continent of Kijuju on the continent of Africa. 
 With violence and murder popular across many parts of Africa, this fact alone would almost guarantee 
 a very terrifying game. Sadly, you'd be wrong if you assumed this. This game takes place almost 
 entirely during the day and this takes away almost all amounts of horror this game could have had 
 would it have take place during the night. There are, however, a few places that are dark and dimly 
 lit, though somehow, it still doesn't make this game very scary.
  
  The setting no longer feels scary and the Resident Evil series has almost always been about 'scary' 
 settings. This is why I have to give this game setting such a bad score, and in truth, it's this 
 games one major fault, especially if you walked in expecting to be scared.
  
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.5-10/10
  I can't even lie, this game looks stunning. The graphics are top notch and 
 possibly some of the best I've seen in a video game. You can literally see the glistening from 
 the sweat on your character's arms, as well as sand breezing through the air.
  There are way too many nice graphical effects in this game to list in this review, but simply put, 
 you won't be disappointed.
  
  The only reason I lowered the score by .5 is because I hear so many complaints about slight frame 
 rate issues which, I personally, have never even noticed and I'm willing to give them the benefit 
 of the doubt for anyone who might notice it. If you're the kind of person to be very nit-picky 
 about this sort of thing, you may be bothered by it, everyone else won't even notice.
  
  
  STORY:7.5-8/10
  I'll be honest with you, I'm a fan of this series and I personally had mixed 
 feelings about the way the story was told. Newcomers to the series may find the story - should 
 they understand it without knowledge of the previous titles - very cliche and standard. There's 
 the hero, and the super strong bad-guy who can't be beaten.
  
  Old fans of the story will find a lot more here than the newcomers. You'll be able to see the return 
 of older characters and what they've been doing this whole time. But most of all, you'll find closure 
 and some satisfaction when this game comes to an end.
  
  I myself felt disappointed, yet somewhat content with where the story went. To avoid spoilers, 
 I won't go into detail, but suffice it to say, it feels as if Capcom believed the story would be 
 just 'good enough' for long time fans of the series, but they definitely didn't take that extra 
 step for greatness.
  
  GAMEPLAY: 9.5-10/10
  Finally, we get to the meat of this review. Simply put, the game is very fun. It is hard, however, 
 to review the gameplay without bringing in Resident Evil 4. In all seriousness, this game sometimes 
 feels identical to RE4, with, of course, some slightly upped game mechanics. 
  
  At its essence, it controls like most TPS, you have your standard melee attack which comes in the 
 form of a knife slash. You have an aim button, and you have a shoot button and you can aim at specific 
 body parts to cause certain effects, much life RE4. What sets this game apart, however, from just 
 about any other game I've seen is the ability to follow up an attack with another 'special' melee 
 attack. 
  
  For example, Chris Redfield (the game's main protagonist) can shoot an enemy in the head, and quickly 
 run up to the enemy as it is stunned and follow it up with a straight punch to the face which can 
 only be activated through a button prompt. This helps alot with ammo conservation and can knock 
 down quite a few enemies, not to mention it can do quite a bit of damage, and sometimes even kill 
 the enemy, or several enemies, if you're lucky. There are even some secret moves which can only 
 be met under certain conditions.
  
  But, by far, the biggest part of the gameplay for this game is the co-op mode. Better yet, the 
 co-op mode is online, which let's you play with all your online buddies. Use a mic to play with 
 your friends and it'll add a whole new level of fun. This is the major source of fun for this game 
 and if you don't play online, you're missing a whole chunk of this game.
  
  Unlike past RE titles, which have always geared to 'run away, and live to fight another day' this 
 game is more of a 'kill everyone' type of game. For the most part, you'll gain plenty of ammo for 
 your weapons, and you've got the special melee moves to help you, as well as your knife, all of 
 which allow for plenty of killing action.
  However, like I stated, most old-school fans will find this to be a turn off since they probably 
 wanted a scary game, and quite honestly, this game fails to deliver that.
  
  One thing that many people may find annoying about this game is the inability to move and shoot 
 at the same time. Hardly a make or break, but annoying to people who are used to being able to 
 do this. Personally, it's not a problem, and once you get used to it, it really shouldn't bother 
 you.
  
  With plenty of different enemies, and in pretty large numbers, this game offers lots of fun gameplay 
 to be had. Whether you're an old fan or a new one, there's definitely lots of fun to be had here.
 
  
  
  EXTRAS AND REPLAY VALUE: 9.5-10/10
  With harder difficulties available, and countries full of online co-op partners, there are plenty 
 of reasons to continue playing this game over and over again. Chances are, you'll find yourself 
 playing this game quite a bit.
  
  With plenty of unlockable items and a very fun and exciting extra mode, you can play this game 
 all day for weeks before you finally become bored of it... that is... if you become bored of it.=]
 
  
  Also, be sure to keep an eye out for DLC to be released sometime within the upcoming months, which 
 is sure to add a whole new level of fun to this game.
  
  
  
  
  OVERALL: 9/10
  Whether you're an old fan of the series, or someone brand new, there's something here for everyone 
 to find enjoyable. In all fairness, I can't quite give it a perfect score as a reviewer, but I 
 feel as if it should come very darn close.
  
  All in all, you're sure to have plenty of fun with it. A definite buy. =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krycek9mm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 9:16 am PT
Review:  I was expecting an awesome game with a few major flaws. I was pleasantly surprised.
  I will start with my 2 biggest concerns.
  
  First the AI : I thought it was going to be a pain 
 in the ass dealing with an AI partner in a game that requires conservation (I knifed my way through 
 RE4, I'm an ammo conservation nut) . It turns out Sheva (or chris on subsequent playthroughs) is 
 more than competent. She fired more than I would have but not to an excess, and she rarely misses. 
 As far as healing items, she never used greater healing than was required and always used it when 
 I was in proximity so that we both benefitted. I for the most part gave her the pistol, machine 
 gun, and green herbs so I could taze my way through the game only occasionally reverting to the 
 shotgun. having her there was more comforting than stressful which kind of took away from the horror.
 
  
  Second concern was the controls. As in RE4 I quickly got used to them, and only have rare issues 
 with control responsiveness. There have been alot of gameplay improvements, particularly the quickswap, 
 which makes up for dealing with real time inventory.
  
  Gameplay: This game is fun, it feels frantic but doesn; t get as stressful as RE4 did. Again controls 
 are relatively smooth, definately a more measured action experience but it keeps with the tone 
 of the game. The weapons feel really great, every weapon fires like it should and enemies respond 
 accordingly. You can breeze through the game but taking time to collect all items rewards you with 
 weapon upgrades. The increased melee attacks feel really visceral, when you punch a dude, they 
 feel it! The co-op elements are really well implemented, whether playing with AI or a friend , 
 the game actually feels co-op instead of just regular campaign with 2 players. Multiple playthroughs 
 are great as you max out your weapons and upgrade them with infinite ammo, It's fun to see how 
 fast you can run through the game blasting your way through with infinite ammo shotgun or gatling 
 gun.
  When demolishing everyone gets old, you can move to mercenaries challenge mode if you want to perfect 
 your zombie slaying abilities.
  
  Graphics: This game looks fantastic, All the character models are top notch (aside from Chris's 
 sick pythons and swollen neck) and are very well animated, the players and enemies act and react 
 realistically. The environments are gorgeous and moody and the lighting is great. The cut scenes 
 are over the top but totally enjoyable. Some of the monsters are the best and most intricate I've 
 seen in any game and it makes it all the more enjoyable to tear them apart.
  
  Audio: The music was fine, nothing to write home about but helped with the atmosphere. The voices 
 were hit or miss as was the script, but overall just fine and nothing embarrassing. The sound effects 
 were almost as good as the visuals, no detail stood out, but all the weapons sounded exactly like 
 they should as did enemies and surroundings.
  
  Story: I can't say much for the story, it was fine, it served it's purpose, no big surprises. And 
 I can't say it added much to the resident evil series but it was a competent entry. Most of the 
 story took place in gameplay which was nice. 
  
  As far as the racist thing, I don't think capcom is aggressively racist, I think they're just ignorant. 
 Alot has already been said and I don't think I have anything to add. There are definitely some 
 charged imagery that is in contrast to the anti-colonial undertones of the game. 
  
  Overall this is a great looking fun game with lot's of single player and co-op replay value.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: venster2006
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 7:41 am PT
Review:  resident evil 5 is a great game with loads of button sequences great appearences and great moves 
 such as throat slitting neck breaking upper cutting action there will also be the great minigame 
 mercenaries returning where you fight hordes of enemies with different characters and different 
 costumes there is also a multiplayer now on the resident evil series where you can go through the 
 whole resident evil 5 campaign with a friend around the world. there will now be achievements so 
 u can try a few easy and different goals. and show other people what have you done. if you like 
 blood gore and awesome killing buy this game you can also play as the returning hero chris redfield 
 with a new companion sheva alomar. the game will also include special appearences such as albert 
 wesker, jill valentine and ozwell. E. spencer i give this game 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keitha313
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 2, 2009 5:40 am PT
Review:  Well i wouldnt personally say that RE5 was better than RE4 but nothing changes the fact that RE5 
 is a great game with alot of new things in it and with the possible rumoured DLC coming im asuming 
 it can only get better i will explain as to why in my opinion RE5 doesnt quite match 4...
  
  Moving onto the game RE5 its based in Africa this time, I wont go into detail as to why it 
 is because that would be a spoiler.
  The graphics are well obviously good its a capcom game obviously its going to be good so i wont 
 go on much about that.
  
  With the new idea of having a partner can and cant be a good thing i personally think for me it 
 takes away any of that fear factor you might get when a big horde of lickers or hostile people 
 encounter you so i wouldnt say RE5 has any scare in it, Althought i will admit that their was one 
 bit and still to this minute it creeps me out... Just imagine walking into a big pool of water 
 and out of nowhere *Bam* theirs a crocodile right infront of your face ill say no more on that.
 
  
  The camera at time can be alittle frustrating to maneuvure but you will get use to it quickly... 
 The music in RE5 i. e. Battle music is great brings me back to the old days its like when you hear 
 the battle music your always kind of "ooh god what is coming up now".
  
  A few gribes about the game would be the excessive use of the unlimited ammo being used with everyone 
 i wish it could of been gained with alot more work to be honest so people would of played the game 
 atleast 2-3 times without feeling the need or temptation to cheat.... Last of all it is a great 
 game it wont be a game that i will sell deffinetly will be kept in my collection id recommend anyone 
 buying it... Just hopefully the next RE will pursue more on scaring people and freaking people 
 out after all thats what i use to always get the impression they were trying to do from the first 
 RE1,2 and 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMRowley
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:50 am PT
Review:  Having not played any Resi game before I found myself with a real treat with this game.
  The visuals at times are stunning though at other times the graphics can seem sub-standard in comparison, 
 but still good.
  Gameplay mechanics are fine, it took me a while to get comfortable with the controls.
  Though 
 my first negative comment for gameplay is the limiting camera, I wish I could flip camera angles 
 over the shoulder like Uncharted. Though the camera was never a problem this would have been a 
 nice feature.
  My second critism of the gameplay is button timing sequences, this seems to be a growing feature 
 in the game to give characters one-time special abilities. To me this just shows the limits of 
 the game, and is no more than a glorified pause/play button to continue the game. Button timing 
 sequences can be ok but at times I found my self repeating certain sections over again until I 
 memorised the sequence.
  
  Overall the game is brilliant except for the short comings (in my opinion) mentioned above. The 
 game is exciting if not short, but after completing it once I'm going through it again trying to 
 find all the gems and goodies.
  The game was surprisingly not scary, I was expecting something like FEAR scare wise.
  Playing 
 with a friend I imagine would be awesome, unfortunately mine is trigger happy - crapshot (bad combo) 
 but still a laugh. Haven't tried online as Sheva AI is very smart but still likes to either shoot 
 through me or stand in my way.
  
  What ever you think, you should play this game, not one to miss.
  I just hope the next game allows 
 some free roaming and player choices. But then it might lose its Resi heritage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ongpower
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:25 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is a game where single player is an experience for the story and the gamer to enjoy 
 a fun fest of zombie blasting goodness. But, where the game shines is not in the single player 
 experience but the multiplayer portion of the game. It was very wise for Capcom to add a multiplayer 
 aspect to game for the game is truly Resident 4 game in disguise. It's clear that Resident Evil 
 5 doesn't break any gaming benchmarks but it's definitely an experience to be had with a friend 
 in multiplayer. Anyone that has played Resident Evil 4 will for sure be familiar with the game's 
 schematics. Controls, functions, and even gameplay will find the next installation to be very familiar. 
 The game's AI controlled partner is no match for a friend that is willing to obliterate zombie 
 hordes with you and face the fear that you can't forget that the game's marketing team developed 
 to suck in gamers. 
  Personally I'm a big fan of the franchise but as a gamer and a designer (architecture) the game 
 is a near exact copy of Resident Evil 4. If you are a fan of the 4th installment then the 5th one 
 will not disappoint. I played the game when it was released with a friend 1st run through. It was 
 fun and even spectators who joined us were excited to see our ventures. The game took near 20-40 
 hours for us to beat on Veteran mode. We didn't really replay any of the levels for power ups or 
 anything but rather we spent majority of the game not dying and trying to punch Wesker in the face 
 during one of the many exciting boss fights which requires a competent partner to accomplish.
 
  After the completion of the game (awesome ending) my friend and I dabbled in "Mercenaries" mode. 
 That too is just awesome fun. I do wish they had a survival mode where there is no time limit and 
 hordes of enemies just keep pouring in until we are either overwhelmed or our ammo is completely 
 depleted. A "VERSUS" mode is upcoming for release and that should add another sense of thrill for 
 the game. I hope that developers see that by simply adding a multiplayer function to games. Co-Op 
 is the new genre video game developers should look into. Games like Gears of War, Halo, and currently 
 Resident Evil 5 where there's a co-op option available definitely makes the game more accessible 
 to a larger crowd of gamers and also adds a sense of strategy and new depth of gameplay for. 
 
  Overall Resident Evil 5 is game that is meant to be played with a real "partner" and not the AI. 
 It's definitely a must play for the series and if you've followed Resident Evil ever since the 
 1st installation, the 5th one will definitely be a fear you will never forget!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kardine
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:35 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY (9.0/10) :
  
  Right off the bat, I can tell you that I wish there was not co operative play. The CPU co-op is 
 broken, so be sure to find some one to play with if you can. But this does not damage it to a point 
 of unplayable. The scare is lowered in this game. 
  
  After saying the small bad points, I can say that it is resident evil shooting style puzzle solving 
 madness. The gun options are good, and I just leave it at the game is fun to play. There is no 
 real special thing about it, it is just... good.
  
  CONTROL (8.0/10) :
  
  I had some gripes with this, and I hope for a Wii installment so that the aiming is faster and 
 more precise. It works, but not comfortably. The aiming is slow, other than that it was fine.
 
  
  PRESENTATION (9.5/10) :
  
  Amazing visuals and great cutscenes, in fact I was inclined to give this a 10. I just could not 
 stand going from resident evil 4's equipment system. Other than that it was outstanding in the 
 visual department.
  
  SOUND (9.0/10) :
  
  Shrieks and roars from my sorround sound system made for an eerie environment. Chris and his partners 
 voice acting was odd at times, but other than that cool cool cool.
  
  REPLAY VALUE (9.0/10) :
  
  This is were the cooperative comes in handy. Me and my friend played 
 the survival mode. 
  
  FINAL VERDICT (9.0/10) :
  
  Not a lot to say, but it is just a solid good game. It has its flaws. Yet, it is just good, and 
 that is all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Resident Evil fan more recently. I played Resident Evil and Resident Evil 0 on the 
 gamecube. I really got into the series when Resident Evil 4 came out and it blew me away. Ever 
 since then I've bought The umbrella chronicles for Wii also. I loved all those games, and Resident 
 Evil 5 in no exception.
  
  This game starts with Chris Redfield heading to Africa on a BSAA mission. In Africa he meets up 
 with fellow BSAA member Sheva. Similar events are occurring in Africa like they were in Raccoon 
 City. People are turning into zombies, and of course Wesker is behind this again. It is up to Chris 
 and Sheva to figure this one out. 
  
  This game has a lot going for it. I'll start out with the presentation. The graphics are amazing. 
 Everything looks great and there is great detail put into all the environments and characters throughout 
 the game. The cutscenes are also put together well. The dubbing is excellent, and everything flows 
 well. The story is nothing to spectacular. It is very similar to the past Resident Evil games, 
 except it takes place in a different country. This isn't necessarily a bad thing, but it would 
 be nice if something changed. 
  
  The gameplay is almost exactly the same as Resident Evil 4. You can't move and shoot, which isn't 
 a big deal to me it works in a game like Resident Evil. You've never been able to move and shoot 
 in a Resident Evil game, why change something that doesn't need to be changed? You can buy and 
 upgrade your weapons like in Resident Evil 4. This time though there is no merchant, there is just 
 a menu to buy things before each mission starts. They also included a partner into the gameplay. 
 The whole game is played with a partner, whether it be CPU or one of your friends. I didn't really 
 mind having a partner, but I would prefer it be just one player like in Resident Evil 4, or they 
 could just make that optional. I felt the same way in Resident Evil 0. If your partner is a CPU, 
 the A. I. is pretty good. Its still frustrating sometimes if they waste ammo, or try to fight enemies 
 they have no chance against and therefore they die (making you lose the mission too) . But they do 
 have their advantages. Some missions were challenging and I definitely needed that partner to help 
 me through them. So there's always good and bad things when it comes to having a partner. 
  
  Overall I was very impressed. The graphics, sound, and cutscenes were all done well. The gameplay 
 stayed true to the Resident Evil 4 formula which worked well. But this game is not perfect.
  
  First of all it is way to short. My first playthrough i beat the game in ten hours. There is 
 some stuff to unlock, but you really only need to play through the game twice to get the important 
 stuff. Even playing through twice, it took less than 20 hours. I got all the BSAA emblems, costumes, 
 and figurines. The only thing I didn't unlock was the unlimited ammo on all weapons which i felt 
 was unnecessary once you've beaten the game two times already. It was just disappointing when you 
 pay $60 and you get less that 20 hours worth of play. Its nice to get amazing graphics and cutscenes 
 but that cant make a game perfect if one playthrough only lasts about 10 hours. If the game would've 
 been longer and a little more interesting it could've been perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IE_Tho
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2009 11:16 pm PT
Review:  I'm no fan of this series, but I plan to review it fairly. My experience with this series is only 
 the small amount I sampled of the remake of the first one for gamecube and the new installment 
 '5' that I played over the course of a weekend with a friend that rented the title.
  
  From what I've gathered, Resident Evil 5 (RE5) is more of the same good ole' fashioned "who done 
 it" zombie shooter. I'd like to acknowledge that this game looks absolutely stunning. RE5 sets 
 you in a rarely seen African shantytown to investigate the usual mishaps. The level of detail as 
 returning character Chris Redfield and newly added Sheva (lets say Electra) move around in this 
 new environment is astonishing and really helps make the game.
  
  Once you get past the first 3 minutes of the game, and stop playing lookie loo and start shootin' 
 zombs in the face, the game turns from impressive to frustrating. I would think in today's fast 
 paced gaming world, and the major leaps this genre has taken with this series, that two special 
 operatives commandos working for a world class zombie safety organization, could MOVE and SHOOT 
 simultaneously. That's right, any action weather it's melee (knife / stun rod) or shooting, the 
 player must remain completely stationary. The game also takes liberties of removing cross hairs 
 from the game and adding laser pointers to each and every weapon. This might seem nice but playing 
 it on split screen even on a 50" flat screen made it sometimes unbearable to spot where you were 
 shooting when trying to make those long range shots.
  
  Most of the game play is played out by going through truly unique environments where you and your 
 partner will be ambushed by a wave of zombies you must defeat while usually looking for some way 
 to progress the story or move to the next 'locked' area. Series of cut scenes offer a nice change 
 of pace with button pushing moments to perform on screen actions, whether it's jumping to safety 
 or helping your team mate. There are also some very interesting boss sequences but they are usually 
 more visually impressive than they are challenging. Nearly every boss plays out the same, by running 
 repeatedly in circles until you've defeated _______.
  
  This game does offer some great coop play. With a story mode that takes a little over 12 hours 
 + ( varies depending on how cautious the players are) it's filled with an okay, but predictable 
 plot, which is fine though. The game really offers great level design to explore with a friend, 
 which sometimes feels too linear, or at least it too easily navigable with the in game map. The 
 game also adds an interesting element of upgrading and purchasing weapons you find throughout the 
 story mode, which is paid for by the treasures you sell and the money you pick up from the zombies 
 you kill. Interesting isn't necessarily a good thing here, as it's often the way you unlock best 
 in slot weapons, and it's sort of strange rationing off the money you get to two split screen players, 
 it would be nice if it split it for you.
  
  Overall the game feels like it should be great, it has a variety of interesting levels and puzzles, 
 the games levels difficulty scales properly, and it has a lot of unseen elements such as zombies 
 toting guns and rocket launchers. But when you realize how badly the game is weighed down with 
 it's annoying controls that often get you killed, and strange UI that tries to be too simplistic 
 for starting and joining games that it overlooked a lot of standard simple options, the game just 
 can't be given anywhere near a perfect score.
  
  I definitely recommend renting this if you and a friend or room mate are looking for a game to 
 knock out over the weekend, the CoOp is fantastic. To recommend purchase, you'd have to be either 
 a trophy fiend or RE series fanatic, in which case you most likely already own this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:52 am PT
Review:  I felt I should write a review after reading somewhat overley negative reviews that were just unecessary.
 
  
  If you didn't like this game, I'm sure its got something to do with how the controls are designed. 
 
  
  If so, I would like to mention that the creators control design was intentional and is what distinguishes 
 this game from other shooters. I happen to really like the controls and I find that once you get 
 the hang of it, I'm sure you'll find it is quite the experience.
  
  This is a good game when it comes to the overall experience, I started it up for the first time 
 and didn't end the game until I had completed like 3 hours of gameplay, I could not put it down.
 
  
  I felt the Coop was a great addition, something new and well implamented.
  
  Graphics are sweet, sound is great, the story, I dunno, I have not yet finsihed the game and so 
 far I haven't seen much story. But I have to say I'm totally drawn in by this game, so much so 
 that the lack of story doesn't bother me one bit, cause this game is FUN.
  
  Passing weapons and ammo back and forth, directing your partner to pick up stuff and give me this 
 and that, making sure you have enough ammo and are cocked rocked and ready to rock, I dunno its 
 just cool man.
  
  There is a very realistic feel to the game when it comes to weaponry and equipment, it is a big 
 part of the gameplay, its something else to think about. You have to make decisions about what 
 to do with your inventory. I find that to be one of the things that really addes to the fun and 
 unique flavor of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 5.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 10:40 pm PT
Review:  What if the name of this game is "Outbreak Africa?"
  
  Would you honestly give this game a "9" rating?
  
  No you wouldnt.
  
  The problem with 
 this game is that its already feels old, either gameplay or storywise.
  
  Chris moves like a Tank... and he cant even aim while moving... ok ok.... it may add to the suspense,,, but 
 really, there is no suspense in this game or whatsoever.. even if you tweak the controls... its will 
 be the same boring game.
  
  fanboys would say that, aiming and shooting is not resident evil.... ok.... but since when did resident 
 evil had a co-op play?
  When did Wesker start moving like he is in the movie matrix? and most of all.. what happened to 
 the "survival horror" action, that made this franchise famous?
  
  And please... think about this.. Resident Evil IS the game that made the ps1 famous. It is a ground 
 breaking franchise. And now after years and years... this is all that they can come up to? The same 
 old game that you played on the ps2?
  
  Dead Space   Resident Evil 4   Resident Evil 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zampa_Dan
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Im a fan of the series but this game had no feel of a resident evil game. Like Res4... dissapointing. 
 
  
  Theres not a single element of fear, scare tactics or anything. Its just a wham bam thank you mam 
 shoot em up with the odd puzzle which takes common sense to solve. The enemies you encounter arnt 
 what you expect, Umbrella doesnt really have any involvment which is kinda what Resident Evil is 
 born from, the story line is weak and the new addition with the partner being introduced sucks 
 big time, shes just annoying and irrelevent (i know why they had to put the partner in so no messsages 
 stating this please, just saying its stupid) 
  
  Id compare the game with Tomb Raider and Enchanted with a taste of Metal Gear. 
  
  HOWEVER 
 the plus sides of the game..... graphics are amazing! Bosses are superb! and the add on features 
 (trophies and the rewards for completing the game) are what every game should include! Good replay 
 value.
  
  Too sum up.... its worth the purchase just dont get your hopes up expecting to be scared or excited 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThWorldGreatest
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 30, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  it's hard to forget resident evil, RE1 was easily the scariest game on PS1 and one of the best 
 survival horror title at it's time , RE4 took the slow gameplay and the hard puzzles and turned 
 it into a fun action-survival horror hybrid , i didn't expect RE5 to revolutionize the series in 
 any way but i expected a solid game that holds up to the series's reputation. 
  
  sadly RE5 is a huge disappointment for both series and action fans alike , capcom completely removed 
 the "survival horrorfrom RE5 and turned it into a genre reject , stuck between the past and 
 the present. it isn't an action game nor it is survival horror , think Gears meets RE , add a tacked 
 on partner added because of the complains on racism to the mix and you got yourself a medicore 
 title at best for action fans and a big disappointment for the series fans.
  
  unlike the CoD series where a new title is out almost every year we only get a few RE titles in 
 a generation every 4 or 5 years, meaning that the game has to be good by RE standards. sadly RE5 
 barely lives up to RE series standards , the story is still the biggest selling point since familiar 
 faces like chris redfield and wesker make a return in this title.
  
  Story 8.5:
  the story gets cheesy half-away through the game , specially after the Hood Woman identity gets 
 revealed , The Hooded Woman is the greatest plot device in this entire game but it sadly wasn't 
 as good as it should have, it's clear that when it was announced that Shinji Mikami isn't handling 
 the game it would have a big impact on the game, and it's easy to tell just by looking at the poor 
 management of characters and the shallow main character that is chris redfield .
  
  Characters 6.5 / Ai 4.6:
  chris the main protagonist in the game (and the biggest steroid addict 
 in the world) is shockingly the most shallow and unbilevable character in the entire game. his 
 sense of justice is far more worse than any of marvel's superheros, i will not spoil the ending 
 but you know a poor shallow character when he says at the end the same thing he said in the beginning 
 even after all he went throughi don't know if it's all worth fighting for".
  
  sometimes i wondered if they wanted to create a solid snake out of chris , to make him the depressed 
 hero, he doesn't have any kind of human feelings to start off with , he is far more worse than 
 leon in RE4 , the guy who isn't fazed by anything unless he broke a nail. there is a lot of sexual 
 vibe in this game that isn't explored. honestly i can't name a single capcom game that had any 
 romantic relationship between characters, which is sad because there are a lot of fans who want 
 their favorite characters's relationship's to be explored specially in RE5 which focus's heavily 
 on partners.
  
  sheva , the new comer to the series isn't bad by any standards, even if she annoyed us by constantly 
 repeating "we're partners" to calm herself that chris isn't going to kill her with his bare fists 
 if she made the wrong move, her Ai is the worst in the entire game . Ashly Ai in RE4 was far more 
 forgiving than sheva since you can make her hide in the dumpster almost the entire time without 
 her annoying the hell out of you. she keeps running into enemies and gets herself killed , she 
 wastes ammo and health items , she shoots you , she forgets to save you if you got hurt pretty 
 badly and need help , if there is anything far more punishing than not allowing strafing it's the 
 partner horrible Ai, specially on professional mode where one hit sends you into the danger zone 
 sometimes she just stands there with ammo in her hands not doing anything , it's the game biggest 
 flaw to tack on a partner just to have online co-up. there are tons of solutions and workarounds 
 to having online co-up in this game but capcom decided to have you baby site a horrible ammo/health 
 items-wasting partner instead through the whole game.
  
  Extra's 8.9:
  Mercs mode is the reason why you shouldn't rent this game and instead buy it . it's online co-up 
 stands out as the biggest reward in the game and will get you hooked up to it. other than merc 
 mode there are BSAA Emblems , which act like the medallions in RE4 , it unlocks costumes and figures 
 that you can view in the gallery, there four costumes in the game :
  Chris S. T. A. R. S
  Chris Safari 
  Sheva Clubbin' 
  Sheva Tribeal
  there isn't a sadly a Bird Woman costume to 
 replace sheva which is the biggest disappointment for me. hopefully it will be covered in DLC in 
 the next few months.
  
  RE5 had mixed reactions from me so i can't say that the game is either bad or good , it's average 
 for the series fan and a rent for action fans, this game is not gears of war so don't expect to 
 play it like an action game and be able to run-and-gun through the entire game , series fans pick 
 this title up it will be worth your money. action fans play the demo and rent it , there is a huge 
 chance that you will be deeply disappointed if you buy it even with mercs online co-up.
  
  FINAL SCORE : 
  7.0 GOOD
  
  V.1.0
  -Zack B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono789
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 8:36 am PT
Review:  Four years ago Resident evil 4 was released with a brand new image for the series ditching the 
 CCTV style camera and combats it adopted the third person view, the game still managed to provide 
 the scares thrills and undeniable epicness of the series. 
  
  Set a decade after the events of Racoon city . Resident evil 5 continues the tale of the RE world 
 in which Resident evil 1 survivor Chris Redfield ,now an agent for the BSAA (Bioterrorism Security 
 Assessment Alliance) is sent to investigate a terrorist threat of the Umbrella corporations weapons 
 in an African desert area Kijuju, that serves as the games setting.
  
  The game kicks off with a cutscene of Chris Redfield meeting up with his new partner Sheva Almost 
 , who will be with you the whole game. The first chapter is a simple introduction stage slowing 
 stepping you into the world with a few investigation prompts in which you press square to show 
 what chris thinks of what he has just seen, about 5 minutes in you run into your first Majini encounter 
 as he runs across the room to grab you he must be neutralized by you and sheva afterhand you run 
 into a much larger group where you must either run or fight the latter being much more fun and 
 yields a nice reward which you cannot get anywhere else in the game.
  
  The gameplay is a nice simple setup with two types of controls a more classic third person shooter 
 setup in which L1 aims and R1 firs while the second is an echo of Resident Evil 4's where you must 
 press R1 aim with the right stick and fire with x which is nice to have but takes some getting 
 used to , The enemy A. I isnt the best but if it were better it wouldnt serve the game well enemys 
 run after you flailing axes and hand scythes around so it works nicely, the games A. I really shines 
 in your partner Sheva , she nearly always gets the job done with only a few situations where she 
 lets you down but which is very possible with a human player aswell she will heal you hand you 
 ammo if you request it and has killer aim, you can also order her to cover you run in and attack 
 thank her and ask her to wait, so no complaints there. the inventory system is fantastic all weapon 
 changing must be done on the fly which means no faffing around with your inventory mid fight you 
 must organize and add to your inventory before starting the chapter. 
  
  The guns work very well with some lovely sound effects which really makes you feel the shot , while 
 with the limited ammo really adds to the intensity of the game.
  
  The games difficulty is divided into three sections with a fourth unlockable with completion of 
 the game Amateur, Normal ,Veteran and Professional
  
  Resident evil 5 does still manage to change to a more action orientated expierience while still 
 providing scares and many many thrills which can Please older fans and excite newer ones.
  
  Overall Resident evil 5 is a beautiful looking game with a fantastic story , gameplay and I 
 recommend to anyone who wants a replayable extravaganza of blood, guns, twists , zombies and Kool 
 aid (you'll understand that when you start playing)
  
  9/10
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: W8I8Z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Finally! A game developer has realized that if it's not broke... don't fix it. This is the case 
 with RE5. In RE4 the controls were revamped and updated to the over the shoulder view and weapon 
 handling was improved. For the latest installment in the RE franchise, they kept the over the shoulder 
 view and even made weapon/item select even easier and smoother. (this review based on single player 
 playthrough)
  
  The story takes place in Africa where Chris has hunted down more information about the virus and 
 Wesker. Here he teams up with Sheva in an attempt to finally put an end to all this madness. Capcom 
 really puts a nice closure on the game and ties up a lot of lose ends. (not all, just most)
  The teamwork aspect of the game really makes it a challenge in single player mode as you have to 
 rely on the A. I. to watch your back and also heal you when your badly injured. Obviously if your 
 playing co-op, I would assume your partner would do it for you as well. This also comes into play 
 when certain puzzles and switches have to be solved with 2 people. Normally they arent that difficult 
 to solve as long as you can keep the endless infected African people from killing you. Plus you 
 can swap items and weapons with your partner on the fly and tell them to turn wheels or pick up 
 items. Very helpful if your item slots are filled and you dont wanna give up a good item or ammo.
 
  
  The game itself has gone away from the suspence aspect because in this version you are constantly 
 attacked by groups of enemies who will annouce their presence. In later stages they even shoot 
 back at you with high powered weapons. Most of the common enemies will just punch or throw something 
 at you, but the real pain are the mini-bosses. Which in some cases are harder to beat than main 
 Bosses. For anyone who knows the series, the Chainsaw enemies are STILL a royal pain! Now top it 
 off with more mini-bosses and creatures with higher intelligence are you got your work cut out 
 for you. Plus lets not forget the sudden Croccodile attacks while wading through the shallow waters. 
 
  
  The one thing that has been constant is the immobility of the main character. You still have to 
 stop in order to take aim and shoot. This causes issues when your surrounded by multiple enemies 
 or fast enemies that run behind you. There is a quick turn around but sometimes that doesnt really 
 matter. Also, when your bring up the items menu it is in real time, meaning the action doesnt stop 
 while you decide which weapon to use or to heal yourself. This isnt really a problem as you can 
 get used to it after a while. With the quick weapon selection (arrow keys) going into the menu 
 during battles isnt necessary.
  
  The game is addicting to play and can be beaten in a few hours, but you wont get all the weapons 
 or enjoy killing massive amounts of enemies. I took my time and searched around for items, making 
 sure to kill anything in my way. There are some bonus features you can obtain by finding hidden 
 symbols that need to be shot or by doing actions throughout the game. Plus you can collect many 
 treasures from beating mini-bosses or laying around in walls or drawers. These treasures can be 
 sold in between chapters or after you die in order to purchase upgrades for your weapons. Increasing 
 your firepower and ammo capacity will always be helpful as you progress in the game. As for the 
 main Bosses themselves, they arent exactly impossible to defeat. They look awesome and take a long 
 time to kill as you have to do it in certain ways. There is not one boss that dies "just" by shooting 
 it with guns. Some you have to burn, others are shot with multiple weapons or have to be hit in 
 certain areas or ways. Each one takes strategy and patience to defeat. 
  
  Overall this is definately the best game in the series in terms of graphics and gameplay. Although 
 your partner can be annoying at times, you will be grateful to have her around during many chapters. 
 PLenty of reasons to replay (you can play as Sheva!) that will keep you interested for many hours.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 12:29 pm PT
Review:  After playing Resident Evil 4 and having a blast playing it over and over again, Resident Evil 
 5 is finally here. Did it live up to the Resident Evil name? Is it as good as Resident Evil 4 was? 
 It defiantly lived up to the name and was everything I expected it was going to be, and even a 
 little more. As far as it being better than Resident Evil 4, it isn't but it isn't far behind either.
 
  
  You'll play as Chris Redfield, yes the one we all love from the first RE game, there is also Sheva 
 Alomar who will be teaming up with you through the game. Having her there makes it where you play 
 co op through the game with a friend or someone online. It is a first in RE and a good idea it 
 works out well also. I ain't going to comment on the story much I think you should play it for 
 your self, you'll be seeing some faces that you know.
  
  The gameplay is just like RE4 basically, especially the controls so if you didn't like them then 
 you more than likely ain't going to like them now. For other people it will take a little bit of 
 time to get used to, but after that you'll like them and it want be a big deal. It isn't a bad 
 thing that it's similar to RE4 it worked fine then and it can work fine now.
  
  Graphics are nice there really nice, everything looks good from the environments to everything 
 in the game. Sound is also done very nicely the voice acting is top notch, which it's always been 
 something good. I never had any problems with frame rate it runs smoothly all through the game.
 
  
  If your hoping you'll find something scary, you want find it here which I've never found them to 
 be all scary, maybe you'll think different. It gives you a good shoot of adrenaline rush though, 
 which is something that I like games to do. As for it suppose to be a survivor horror game, really 
 who cares not me doesn't matter if it was or isn't. Chris went in and came out he survived that's 
 how I see it.
  
  There's a lot of replay value in it, just like there is with all the other games in the series. 
 I've already beat it three times and am on my fourth run through. There's only one problem I wish 
 the game was harder, I thought playing it by my self and having to watch out for Sheva would make 
 it harder, but I was wrong.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is simply a must have game for PS3 or 360 which ever one you prefer it on. It's 
 a lot of fun, if you liked RE4 then you will also like this one. Any fan of the series should like 
 it except for the ones who usually complain about the controls and such. But it you couldn't care 
 less about that then you love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ameemy
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 29, 2009 9:28 am PT
Review:  Hello guys,
  
  I bought RE5 game last month, it is a really awsome game incase you didnt play yet,
  
  while 
 playing the game, It was obvious for me that the creator wanted to have some other taste to the 
 game, a little bit of Matrix where you can find in Wesker's dressing style and the way of avaoiding 
 the bullets, chapter 4 location designs also was inspired from Tomb Raider, TR the game which 
 I think has lack of action "
  
  Chapter 5, or when you first see the lickers, the location was designed too much similar to Metal 
 Gear Solid one, if you noticed on the walls, there were some blood marks and some sharp blade edges 
 too, this reminded me when I was playing with Solid Snake when I was passing along the way to that 
 guy name GreyFox
  
  this is actually not bad, it adds more to the game, and I cant wait to play with Claire Redfield 
 again! I dont know why they made Degeneration as a movie :p
  
  ^^
  
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: jburvant
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2009 7:16 pm PT
Review:  It seems the Resident Evil franchise has departed from the survival horror genre and is now an 
 action adventure series. I could do without all side games, scoring systems, and on-line co-op, 
 if all that energy would have been put into the story. I finished the game in less than 9 hours, 
 and was disappointed in the lack of depth to the storyline. The game appears have been designed 
 for multiple, quick playthroughs and not for substance. That being said, it is an enjoyable game 
 and the graphics are amazing. It is definitely worth playing, I was just hoping for a survival 
 horror experience reminiscent of Resident Evil 1 & 2. I would recommend renting it and not buying 
 it, unless you are fan of the series and want another addition to your collection. I just hope 
 this isn't what the series will be like in the future, I'd like for them to get back to their survival 
 horror roots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HUNK1998
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Resident Evil nut ever since the original came out in 1996. The beautiful thing about 
 the first two games was its ability to scare the crap out of me. Of course I was just a little 
 kid at the time, the first two hold a nice nostalgic experience whenever I play them. Resident 
 Evil 2 is still the best in the series and my all time favorite game. Resident Evil 4 still did 
 the series justice with keeping some chills and scary moments, but Resident Evil 5 completely gets 
 away from the series and does it little justice. STORYLINE IS THE MOST IMPORTANT ASPECT IN A GAME. 
 Metal Gear Solid 4 kept the dignity and greatness of its franchise by not lowering the game around 
 online co-op play. It is quite clear that RE 5 was made for the sole purpose of co-op online play 
 and regretfully so. The storyline is terrible, Wesker apparently was a test tube baby and Jill 
 was kidnapped apparently even though it was never addresed in any other game and has no real impact 
 and is not relevant to the series in anyway because she ends up turning back anyway. What happened 
 to the Wesker who was mysterious and was like william birkin in the sense that he was brilliant 
 and was just crazy about his research. Wesker is less of a manipulator and more of a agent smith 
 from the matrix and his new voice is not as good as the one in Zero. The Gameplay and mechanics 
 do have flaws such as the annoying live action weapons and items menu which they took from the 
 outbreak series. Personally the over the shoulder view is fine, but the mechanics in the original 
 games was fine, people always complain about them, but you have to be an idiot to have such a hard 
 time with them I was 8 when the original came out and had no problem getting use to the controls. 
 Not to mention it was the old mechanics which made the game scarier. The storyline had nothing 
 to do with the series, Jill gets captured out of nowhere and now tricell has the virus and has 
 used it. But it is never explained when or how the africans are infected. And to make it clear, 
 THEY ARE NOT ZOMBIES. The Majini are able to use guns, and that makes it feel like anything but 
 a Resident Evil Game, and it makes shooting a chore. They traded chills for action and thus defeating 
 the purpose of a Resident evil game, RE4 still had chills so it was okay. Daylight does little 
 to make anyone scared and it is clear that people whined about it being difficult to see in the 
 dark so they ruined it in that way too. It is no secret that people just want to see chicks or 
 action and nobody really appreciates truly good storyline or gameplay anymore. To tell you the 
 truth, XBOX is a leech which sucks from playstation its good games becuase all of theirs are one 
 sided shooting games. Unfortunatly, they managed to ruin Resident Evil by catering to the Online 
 Multiplayer community and thus just throwing concept to the wind. I just pray that Metal Gear Solid 
 4 never goes to XBOX 360, because they are too dense to have a great game like that. The makers 
 of Resident Evil 5 claim that there will be a sixth game, I knew that was the case because of the 
 quick and empty ending which explained nothing, but also from an article which I read. I read that 
 they are returning to survival horror and are getting away from 5 and the great 4th game. I like 
 that, but I also know that XBOX will ruin it somehow. Ada, Leons situation, wesker's agency, are 
 just some of the things which need closer. the Final game should include and bring closer to the 
 series once and for all. PLEASE CAPCOM, DON'T SCREW THAT UP! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yannakos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Haven't played, just heard of, the previous Resident Evil Series, and you really don't have to 
 play the first 4 or so games to understand/appreciate whats going on. After looking through the 
 stories of the previous games, it really does put on a creative spin on bringing back the characters 
 into Resident Evil 5...
  I found playing this online with a buddy was more enjoyable then playing alone, but still gave 
 it a pretty high rating because the graphics are just simply incredible and lots of fun cut-scenes 
 and wide away of weapons and constant use of team work keep you occupied....
  Not exactly a huge fan of the 'stand-still' fighting, but you get used to maneuvering around and 
 it definitely gets addicting and makes you wanna go for round two on hardest difficultly once you 
 get your weapons upgraded again... Has lots of neat weapons and different makeovers of characters 
 to keep you interested. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x1finalmomentx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 27, 2009 11:41 pm PT
Review:  For this game I made sure to take plenty of time with the game before reviewing it because I often 
 change my mind with my reviews after a number of hours.
  
  First note, the game is short. Really short, especially for a Resident Evil title. It's hard to 
 gauge length with some of the titles because the first 3 were so puzzle oriented that it differed 
 from person to person. If you compare it to 4 it still falls short in length. Even after 4 or 5 
 run throughs of 4 it still took a good 20-25 hours to beat. I beat RE5 in around 12-13 hours on 
 veteran my first run through. This game had absolutely 0 puzzle aspect to it which was an interesting 
 change in the RE formula. This was a little upsetting to me, mainly because I grew up with RE1,2 
 and 3 so those titles will always hold a place in my heart. However this game isn't really hurt 
 by the lack of puzzles because it certainly makes up for it with a constant supply of action. Also 
 the addition to the item box in real time (much like Dead Space) was a wonderful idea to always 
 keep you locked in the action. 
  
  Even though this game is quite short, it more than makes up for it's length with a huge amount 
 of things to do after completion. With the much larger, amped up mercaneries mode, the trophies, 
 professional mode, collecting figurines, etc. This game gives you so much to do after completion 
 it will easily last a good 50+ hours. Although I haven't tried it yet I hear professional mode 
 is just rediculous in difficulty for the RE freaks that weren't challenged enough with veteran 
 (like myself) . 
  
  Also I can't write a review about this game without mentioning (drum roll) Co-Op! So perfect! My 
 first time through I played alone just so I could figure it all out on my own but since then I 
 spend most of my time doing Co-Op mercaneries or joining other peoples games and playing as Sheva. 
 I've hardly experience lag issues as well! It is done so well and absolutely makes the game endlessly 
 more entertaining. 
  
  This game does just about everything right. Great story, especially for people who have been following 
 these games, great gameplay, plenty to do after you beat it, co-op, trophies. It really has it 
 all. Great for anyone who loves fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  Graphics-10
  Gameplay-8
  Sound-8
  Replay Value-9
  
  Game series hardly ever manage to really last forever, besides a notable few most of gamings top 
 franchises have either simply hit over to the retirement home or have began to delve into mediocrity 
 and more or less becomes a nuisance to the gaming world.
  
  Resident Evil 5 isn't exactly either. Its certaintly showing its age and lack of innovation yet 
 still has plenty of energy left which does transend into its highly addictive latest outing.
  
  RE5 reunites classic RE fans ( (and introducing the RE4 fanatics) ) to its own leading man, Chris 
 Redfield. Paired up with his new partner, Sheva Alomar, he is sent in to Africa to investigate 
 an apparent BOW deal happening in the small community of Kujiju.
  Its not long before we are all swept into familair territory.
  
  As its very evident if not 
 thanks to the plenty of trailers, but also from the early lines in nearly ever professional review, 
 RE5 is not survival horror, infact its hardly even a horror game at that anymore. Wether its hard 
 to guess if this is the route CAPCOM have decided or if RE5's own themes have just strayed a lil 
 too far than they expected, RE5 is completely devoid of scares. It has its tense moments but overall 
 its all about getting the players adrenaline rushing off the charts.
  
  RE5 plays out very similairy to its predeccesor RE4. You control Chris, or Sheva, through an over 
 the shoulder view with the possible ability to observe your surroundings as far as Chris/Sheva's 
 neck may allow.
  Just like RE4 too, you aim your weapons through a close up look to the shoulder using the convenient 
 laser thats equipped on every weapon. Both characters also have themselves a knife which can be 
 selected by but one button.
  Upon certain conditions, Chris and Sheva may also unleash some painful looking melee attacks too.
 
  If your waiting for any new gameplay mechanics your out of luck, theres practically no serious 
 addition to the gameplay at hand. Besides of course the coop system. Which in its own right is 
 a nice addition, adding in some extra fun to be had with a friend but at the same timr sacrificing 
 any possible horror potential. 
  RE4 may have dryed up all of the fear due to your overpowered arsenal but still being on your own 
 for the most part could still give you a slight chill wondering if anythings behind you.
  RE5 and having Sheva with you at all times basically leaves all possible shocks extinct.
  
 
  None the less, the coop aspect of it all works pretty well. Together Chris and Sheva can combine 
 melee attacks and will also fairly often have to work together to get past some obstacles.
  They can heal each other now with but a single healing item and if one happens to reach the ''dieing'' 
 stage the other character can quickly administer a shot to bring them back.
  Chris and Sheva truelly do have to rely on each other, since on their own this mission would be 
 pretty impossible.
  Sheva being a constant companion gives her all the same strengths and weakness' as Chris. She can 
 die just as easily herself and will of course need her own weapons to defend herself with.
  Depending on the AI or human player she is certaintly a versatile allie. While she can vary from 
 being a total meatheaded moron to a true heroine of a partner, the AI at least gives you a pretty 
 reliable Sheva.
  Sheva's (or possibily Chris) AI will still get on some players nerves, but IMO shes still some 
 of the best none-invincible friendly AI I've come across. She will use melee attacks when the opportunity 
 arises and is pretty good aim with most weapons. She'll never hesitate to heal you or to hand you 
 ammo that she believes you need.
  
  It does feel like this AI wants to complete the game just as much as you do.
  
  She still does 
 have her problems of course, for one if given a handgun, she'll just brand every other weapon inferior 
 and simply fire away with her 9mm. Which is all fine against the usual horde of Majini but pretty 
 questionable when facing against a giant worm filled mess of a BOW. She also will never throw grenades 
 and can sometimes get confused with how to manage her inventory, specially if you two happen to 
 share two of the same type of weapon.
  But as far as I'm concerned the small nuisances don't match up to her prowess as a loving partner 
 :P.
  
  How the coop plays into gameplay though isn't as inventive as you'de expect. Theres not really 
 many of the duo puzzles and the ones that do exist are simply ''one character turn crank so other 
 can go forward...''
  Sometimes however Chris and Sheva will get seperated. Its those occasions that are some of the 
 best in the game for me. While one character will have to carry on to wherever, the other is to 
 provide support. Its incredibly tense in these sections, for both characters. Since on their own 
 if in the dieing state equals certain death.
  
  Overall the coop is implemented well, though isn't fully fledged and could of been made much more 
 innovative. None the less its still an excuse to experience RE4 like gameplay but with a friend.
 
  
  But the gameplay overall is fairly mixed. Most of the complaints surge from no moving while shooting. 
 Which is pretty noticable in this day and age with games like Dead Space perfecting the over the 
 shoulder horror gameplay style. I for one wasn't fazed so much and in fact did give an occasional 
 ''horly ****'' when say struck from behind.
  Later on in the game Chris and Sheva will be able to take cover behind certain objects. Though 
 its incredibly flawed bordering on the ridiculous. You can go behind cover and pop out, but thats 
 all. You can't shimmy along the cover, blind fire or even quickly roll to another piece. Its incredibly 
 underwhelming, can lead to frustration and is simply a failed attempt at entering RE higher up 
 into the action genre.
  Strangly you may only take cover in specific situations, not like it matters however since whenever 
 you feel you need to take cover you'll regain the ability take cover.
  
  The difficulty of it all is not bad. Four different difficulties with the final fourth being pretty 
 damn cruel. On the standard three though, espiecally if you have 2 experienced players, the game 
 can be a slick n smooth cakewalk. The AI's occasional low points may add some difficulty at certain 
 times but overall RE5 isn't all ''that'' challenging. 
  What is certaintly a tough task is finding the hidden BSAA emblems. 
  Theres 30 located throughout 
 the campaign, some will be blatantly advertised in front of you while others are incredibly well 
 hidden. It is a nice touch to give in some collectibles but the fact that they respawn upon on 
 every playthrough is annoying. Luckily however, as the game is now split into chapters similair 
 to a DMC game, you may check to see how many you've shot down per chapter and how many is left.
 
  A real time inventory ( (and much limited inventory space too) ) pile on some extra tension too, 
 with you fiddling about in you inventory it can be quite a rush to quickly have you heal yourself 
 just before the enemy arrives. Theres also a handy ability to macro items/weapons to the d-pad 
 buttons so you may switch through your fav four with just the tap of the d-pad direction.
  
  Some memorable boss fights and one exhilirating turret sequence finish up pretty much all the 
 gameplay has to offer. The boss fights are all fun to fight through though not all that difficult, 
 it still holds a strong flame to the past RE boss' however and the coop aspect adds all the more 
 strategy to finishing them off.
  
  The sound of it all much like past RE entrys is very well done. The soundtrack much like the rest 
 of the game incorporates some fast paced themes to accompany the past faced action and the sound 
 effects too are all very well done.
  Voice acting this time is certaintly a truimpth also, both Chris and Sheva are very likable characters 
 and on Chris' behalf should finally start getting the recognition as a character thats he deserves.
 
  
  Matched with the excellent voice acting is the story. Its has its problems and actually contradicts 
 what early previews suggested, but its overall enjoyable and definatly raps up alot of the branching 
 RE arks. The script this time around is pretty good and certaintly matchs up to some star studded 
 action flick with Wesker notably giving a grand performance and all the more reason for everyone 
 to have him on their favourite characters list.
  
  While the sound is a high quality detour from what RE is used to and the gameplay is a very mixed 
 affair. one thing that can only be praised is its graphics. It could well be the greatest looking 
 multi-platform game so far. The characters models all animate fantastically especially speaking 
 for the majini during their pummeling from Chris' melee attacks. The enviroments too all emit its 
 appropiate beauty with the shiny african village showing you plenty of shanty towns and reflections 
 from the sun to an Indiana Jones esque hidden temple filled with weeds and musty debris in every 
 direction all with the sun giving its grace from a gaping hole in the top.
  Graphically theres no flaws from what I could see, besides an occasional pop-in and some frame-rate 
 issues during some more intense scenes in split-screen, but there easy to overlook with RE5's own 
 standard high quality graphics.
  
  The game as a whole is rich with replay value, which is fortunate considering its much shorter 
 than the epic length of RE4. This time usually taking around 11 hours on your first go. The replay 
 value of it makes up for that though. The BSAA emblems to the huge assortment of weapons to buy, 
 upgrade and massacre with. Unlockable costumes and also playing as both Sheva and Chris in single 
 player offer alot of the campaign to keep you occupied.
  
  Now becoming a trademark for RE, the Mercenaries minigame makes its gracious return. Now improved 
 upon immensly from RE4 with a great deal more levels, coop availablity and also leaderboards to 
 show off your scores too. Lack of characters however is a shame but may still be made up for with 
 DLC.
  
  RE5 can be hard to decipher just what CAPCOM are aiming for, theres basically no horror anymore 
 yet it still feels lacking in terms of an action game. It contains little of RE's signature gameplay 
 and whats left is actually what needed to improve upon.
  But it still manages to become highly addictive and with plenty of incentive to spend this addiction 
 with a friend.
  Its more or less a harcore RE fans nightmare, but anyone who can look past all of its shortcoming 
 in terms of a horror game can find themselves with a damn pretty looking and tense orgy of gore, 
 limitless ammo and an armory of weapons to shoot it all from. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 12:53 pm PT
Review:  http://xboxlivemedia. ign. com/xboxlive/image/article/961/961797/resident-evil-5-20090312100211593_640w. jpg
 
  
  Where do I begin? Let's start with the graphics, they are great. The color schemes are fantastic 
 and the malformed infected masses and the creatures that dwell with them are done quite well. The 
 environments tend to get you in that certain mood for shooting hordes of infected folks and their 
 dogs. The explosions are wicked, I even squinted a couple of times after shooting a barrel. By 
 the way I have my PS3 hooked to a 36in HDTV, and I must say the graphics look absolutely awesome.
 
  
  Now let's talk about the game play. This is a true resident evil game based on the game play alone. 
 You have to stop to shoot, so you must plan your every move, in time you should be able to so this 
 intuitively, especially if you have played the previous of the game. The on-the-fly inventory scheme 
 is pretty cool, even though at times you wish you had room for just one may be two more items, 
 nonetheless I found it to actually add to the intensity of the game. The online coop mode is fantastic. 
 Your partner may be invisible for about a second or two, that's the only thing I truly found that 
 stood out to me,
  
  The mercenary mode is very intense and I find it quite addicting  I just have to find more time 
 bonuses. You can play as either Chris or Sheva; you get a substantial amount of ammo, with pick-ups 
 along the way. The longer and the more combo kills you get, the higher the rank and you'll be able 
 to move on to the next scenario.
  
  Overall, this is a very good game, it is fantastic, if you are a fan of the series. I am very pleased 
 with what CAPCOM has done with Resident Evil 5. They did not disappoint me in the least. I will 
 be playing this game for awhile, there are a lot of goals that still have to be met and I will 
 have a whole lot of fun trying to achieve them. If you are a fan of the series, this is a must 
 have and if you are new to resident evil, then welcome, this is not your everyday FPS or TPS (tomb 
 raider) . The game play is based on intensity and conservation of ammunition, but it will be very 
 enjoyable and rewarding experience. This game stays in my video game library, along with RE, RE2, 
 RE3, and RE4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NailBail
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 brought the series into the spot light, innovating on ridding of the fixed camera 
 angles and limited inventory slots and replacing them with a more modern over-the-shoulder cam 
 and bountiful attache case. The story was purposely cheesy and over-the-top, moving the series 
 from the survival horror genre into more of an intense action game. Several years later, and here 
 we have Resident Evil 5, the highly anticipated, slightly controversial sequel of what many consider 
 one of the best games of all time. The result: the predecessor copies its source material too much 
 for its own good, and Resident Evil 5 ends up being an average experience that aims to please the 
 fans without setting any landmarks. 
  
  The story starts out promising enough. Chris Redfield makes his glorious, steroid filled return 
 to the series along with his new partner Sheva Alomar. They are on a mission to search an African 
 town for the whereabouts of a possible biological terrorist in the district. Suspicions are proved 
 correct and once again, Chris finds himself battling an infected horde and fighting for his life. 
 Chris and Sheva work together to discover the secret behind this recent outbreak and hope to end 
 bioterrorism for good. 
  
  The plot is suspenseful enough with many set pieces, but the settings and enemies feel like ideas 
 ripped from other games, mostly from the previous RE game. It also doesn't help that the dialog 
 is horrible at points, even for the series that debuted the infamousyou, the master of unlocking 
 take it with you" line. The voice work is fine; it's just the writing that will make you bang your 
 head in agony as you hear uninspired one liners after the other, mostly from the villains. Overall 
 the story is as predictable as can be, if only to provide the player with many locales to play 
 on and plenty of zombies to fight.
  
  People that played RE 4 will have no problem picking up the controls, seeing how hardly anythings 
 changed. Thankfully, this is where staying the course is a good thing. You move and aim with the 
 analog sticks, with commanding your partner, inventory and action prompts taking up the face buttons. 
 The over-the-shoulder cam is still present, along with the stop and shoot gameplay. If there's 
 one thing about the RE series that's to be said, it's that there are two opinions about having 
 to stop walking in order to aim your gun: either you hate it or you deal with it. Veterans of the 
 series will have no trouble with it, while newcomers will need to adjust. It's all a matter of 
 preference. Shortcuts to items are placed on the D-pad for easy access, and is a slight but welcome 
 feature.
  
  Of course, the biggest addition of all appears in the form of co-op, a first for the franchise. 
 Killing zombies and boss fights is very satisfying with a friend, whom can join you either offline 
 or online. Strategizing with a buddy of the best way to defeat a horde of enemies is a great experience 
 and actually helps in keeping the action going. If you have no one to play with, Sheva's AI actually 
 does a decent job backing you up, though it's not nearly as satisfying as when playing with a human 
 being. Whether or not co-op belongs in a game like RE can be debated, but it can't be denied that 
 for the most part, it works great.
  
  The inventory now appears in real time and is shrunk down to only nine slots per person. This is 
 most likely implemented to make it easier to navigate while fighting "majini" (I don't care what 
 you call them Capcom, they're still zombies) . However, this small inventory is balanced with the 
 vast storage space that the player has access to at the beginning of each chapter. So if say the 
 player picks up a rocket launcher but doesn't want to use it yet, you can deposit it into the storage 
 to save a precious slot. The inventory works well up to the point where you need to trade items 
 with your partner. Switching weapons and herbs with your partner is cumbersome and unintuitive, 
 especially when both players have a full inventory. This is especially frustrating for an action 
 game, which slows down the intensity of task at hand.
  
  Despite using a bland colour palette of gray, brown and dull green, the game looks really good. 
 The bright sun in the early levels shows a great contrast between light and dark, and some of the 
 texturing is remarkable. The outstanding visuals really show in the cutscenes, which makes it bearable 
 to listen to the "plot". Some locales look a bit too dim and gloomy, though some would argue that 
 it adds to the tension.
  
  Where Resident Evil shines best is its replayability. You can go back and play your favourite chapters 
 in the mission select, try and upgrade all your weapons, and collect all the figurines, treasures 
 and medals. Leader boards are present for you speed runners and perfectionists, along with a story 
 record for whenever you want to be reminded how many head shots you pulled. Mercenaries makes a 
 return from RE 4, which is a mini game where you have to kill as many enemies within a certain 
 time limit. There is also a library full of Resident Evil info, including character backgrounds 
 and the history of the franchise. This is a great feature for current fans and for people who want 
 to catch up on previous game plots.
  
  In the end, what we have here is Resident Evil 4 with a watered down story and an added co-op feature. 
 The game takes no risks (other than following one of the best games ever) , and in fact borrows 
 many ideas from what it is trying to overcome. The game looks great and has a lot of features to 
 keep you going. The co-op is a fun experiment for the franchise, though the inventory system developed 
 for it can be bothersome and you'll need a friend to enjoy it fully. Resident Evil fans will want 
 to pick this up, but everyone else might want to think twice about picking up this co-op based 
 action game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newbreed20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 12:40 pm PT
Review:  well ok lets see this is my review of resident evil 5 
  
  i will start off by sayin that the graphics are great and the story line is also great i think 
 this one better then resident evil 4 i say that cuz i think chris kicks ass and sheva has spunk 
 and attitude i think and the bosses are better then resident evil 4 just the right amount of blood 
 makes it perfect and of course they through in some cursing lol sheva says burn that son of a b****
 
  and there are others within the story line as well any the guns are so aswome i have two favorits 
 in the game one is the l. hawk magnum and the hydra shotgun i love these weapons i felt there was 
 no need for all those machine guns though that was kinda of stupid and another thing i did not 
 like was that you cant move and shoot at the same time like in resident evil 4 those were the only 
 flaws i saw in the game that bothered me other then that the game was perfect the characters were 
 cool i like how jill still alive lol and not dead and it was cool on the game play how it was all 
 played out made it look so real button sequencing was cool made it more challenging the levels 
 were a bit hard as you got farther in to the game. well there u have it this is my review of resident 
 evil 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gta4200895
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  So, this game is really good, but the controls suck. Cuz you can't move while shooting and I don't 
 like this. This game is fu@#in hard cuz you always ran out of ammo and when is a boss you just have 
 to run around like an idiot searching for ammo, but anyway this is a great game.
  
  Almost everyone is dissapointed about the game cuz everyone says that this game is not a survival 
 horror game (and it's not) . This game is an acition game.
  A great acition game.
  
  Sheva is not quite smart cuz she runs out of ammo all the time but at least when a zombie catches 
 you she saves ya. What can I say?! Sheva is fu#@in hot.!!!!!
  
  So this is an amazing game and if you have a ps3 or a xbox 360 you should definitly buy it cuz 
 it worths all the money's.
  
  I don't have the game yet but I gonna get it on the ps3 tommorow but anyway I reccomand it on the 
 PS3 so....... GET THIS  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 3:48 am PT
Review:  It is easy to say that the fourth title in the thirteen year-old Resident Evil series was one hell 
 of a change. It was less scary, but with more "freedom" and action than the first. Many did not 
 like this change. I however thought such a change was acceptable, except for the fact that a bucket 
 more of scary would've been great. But was this change permanent? Is the Resident Evil franchise 
 more action-based and less scary? Resident Evil 5 says yes. If you were one of those who didn't 
 enjoy Resident Evil 4, due to the fact that it was different, then STOP READING NOW! Resident Evil 
 5 follows this change. Because I was a huge fan of Resident Evil 4, I found the fifth very enjoyable. 
 You will too if you enjoyed RE4.
  
  Thirteen years ago, the original Biohazard (which is what the Japanese call it) saw it's release 
 on the PlayStation, and would eventually be ported onto other systems, and even remade. 2 saw it's 
 release in 1998, while 3 saw it's release in Late 1999. Both sequels also had a number of ports. 
 Then, two Resident Evil games that weren't numbered 4 or 5, but were still considered games in 
 the main series got released. Code: Veronica was originally a Dreamcast release in 2000, which 
 eventually ported to the PlayStation 2 and Nintendo GameCube. Resident Evil 0 then got released 
 in 2002, as a prequel to the series, and was released exclusively for the GameCube (although, a 
 Wii port is upcoming, for some reason) . Throughout many years, Resident Evil 4 was in the works. 
 At the start of the decade, Capcom were working on a game for the PS2 that was supposed to be RE4. 
 However, they decided to make it a different game altogether, and they called it "Devil May Cry".
 
  
  January, 2005. Resident Evil 4 finally made it's release onto the Nintendo GameCube. Though it 
 may have not been Devil May Cry, or anything like that series, Resident Evil 4 was nonetheless 
 a massive change for the series, that may possibly be a permanent one. It is now March, 2009. We 
 now have Resident Evil 5 among us. How is it? Let's find out, shall we?
  
  Resident Evil 5 picks up from where the fourth left off, except that the main protagonist is Chris 
 Redfield again, who we saw as the hero in RE1 and the second half of Code: Veronica. After driving 
 into Africa, Chris is met by Sheva Alomar, who agrees to accompany him. The two rendezvous with 
 a butcher who tells them to locate a man named Irving. Along the way, the two see someone get fed 
 a strange object which turns him into a majini. After some time, the two watch the butcher's execution. 
 Fighting through the crowd, they are saved by Kirk's rocket launcher. Later on, a woman is attacked 
 and infected, whom they defeat after seeing a Las Plagas explode from her head. While attempting 
 to locate Irving, the two find Alpha team dead, except one man who is mortally wounded and gives 
 them hard drive data. The monster that took out Alpha team is defeated shortly after, while Irving 
 drives away with a hooded figure. Both the story and characters are pretty good aspects. It gets 
 pretty interesting later on.
  
  Resident Evil 5 has similar gameplay to the fourth, with the similar action, and level layouts. 
 Like in RE4, the game is set in Chapters. RE5 contains 6 chapters, with 2 or 3 parts per chapter. 
 For every chapter, there will be a different area to explore. You will be equipped with guns, so 
 you can blast your way through the majini. You are also accompanied by a teammate. Sheva. If you 
 played RE4, you'll remember Ashley. That whiney piece of eye-candy who is not of any help whatsoever, 
 who kept screaming "Heeeeeelp! Leon!". Thankfully, Sheva is different. SHE HELPS YOU! She is armed, 
 and can fight. Though the AI for Sheva might not be perfect, and sometimes doesn't cooperate, you 
 can get used to it, and you can also think about Ashley, and how bad she was. Sheva's easily overlooked.
 
  
  For the first time in the main series, Resident Evil has multiplayer. Two player, co-op is available 
 online and offline (split-screen) . One person can play as Chris, while the other can play as Sheva. 
 How online multiplayer works, is when somebody creates a game, and allows anybody to join. Then, 
 somebody else can join the game, as long as nobody else already has. Until somebody joins, Chris/Sheva 
 will be AI controlled. As long as you're playing with someone who knows how to play, RE5 is better 
 in Co-op than with Chris/Sheva as a CP. There is also upcoming downloadable content, containing 
 a Versus mode. It sounds weird, but it looks interesting.
  
  Resident Evil 5 also has a few noticeable changes from 4.
  
  The immediate change that I noticed, 
 was the lack of darkness. It starts off in a hot, sunny surface in Africa. There is some darkness 
 further on, though nowhere near as much as in previous installments. Though this may not necessarily 
 be a bad thing, it takes away the scary feeling that made previous installments so good. While 
 4 wasn't very scary, it was at some point. 5 isn't scary at all, making me refuse to call this 
 a Survival-Horror. The inventory has also changed, and in a bad way. While the inventory may be 
 more realistic now, it now sucks. RE4's inventory was excellent! Why they had to change the inventory, 
 I do not know. The inventory is now a 3x3 grid, and items can be banked. You can't upgrade your 
 inventory size either like you could in 4, which was a total bummer I thought. Half the time, you 
 couldn't fit the items in there, because you were already filled up with ammo, healing items, armour 
 and heaps of new weapons you pick up (and there are a lot of them) . Of course, your partner can 
 pick these up, but when they're full? I have to admit, it was a bad inventory. Another minor problem 
 I had was when buying and selling items, and such. There was no merchant. The merchant was easily 
 my favourite character from 4. The only way you could buy and sell stuff were from loading the 
 game, or dying. Kind of weird, really. Typewriters are also absent, which were previously save 
 spots. Now, there's auto saving in certain areas.
  
  There are a lot of sweet extras. Figurines can be purchased, awesome new guns are unlockable, The 
 Mercenaries is back. There is also a Leaderboard now, which contains rankings for best times in 
 Chapters, and the overall difficulty itself. You can find out what place you're in, what place 
 your friends are in and you can also look at who's Number One in different categories. The Leaderboards 
 are great, and is a good addition.
  
  I've noticed others complaining about the controls. Well, all I can say about them is that the 
 controls are fine. So maybe it's a bit lame how you have to hold a button to run, but you can get 
 used to it. I seem to find the control layout fine. But if for some reason you don't like the default 
 controls, there are different control modes you can change from. So, if you aren't comfortable 
 with the defaults, then try out the other control modes, and find out what's best for you.
  
  You're probably wondering how difficult RE5 is. When you first play, there are three difficulty 
 settings. The easiest being Amateur. I've only beaten a couple of levels on this difficulty, and 
 I found to be very easy, though I am an RE4 veteran after all. Beating the game on Normal, I can 
 say this: There were the odd hard parts, especially when you run out of ammo (you can't buy ammo, 
 this was also a problem with 4) . Veteran is the difficulty above normal. It's not much different, 
 but you do notice a little bit more challenge. When Veteran is beaten, Professional is introduced. 
 If you think you're good at RE, try beating Pro. When it comes to length, it should take you around 
 15 hours for you to beat it for the first time. This may not be much, especially since it's such 
 an addictive game, but there is a lot of replay value, I can guarantee that for sure.
  
  There's no doubt at all that the graphics in RE5 are amazing! They look very realistic, and are 
 definitely an improvement from the already awesome graphics from RE4. Motion capture is used, like 
 in many 7th Gen titles. I know for sure they are definitely used for the cutscenes, and i'm not 
 so sure about the gameplay graphics itself, but it looks like they are. No matter if it's motion 
 capture or not, you have to admit that the graphics are awesome!
  
  Then, there's the sound department. While there are some alright tracks in the music, there aren't 
 any significant tunes in my opinion, like there were in 4. The composer was Kota Suzuki, responsible 
 for other soundtracks, including Onimusha 3: Demon Siege and Devil May Cry 4. The voices are pretty 
 good, no problems there.
  
  Memorable games pop up every now and then, and I wish I could say Resident Evil 5 was one of them. 
 Sadly, I cannot. While it is a great sequel, with some awesome gameplay, I found that it was inferior 
 to Resident Evil 4 in terms of the locations and gameplay. Resident Evil 5 isn't scary at all, 
 making it far from a Survival-Horror. Nonetheless, Resident Evil 5 is definitely a worthy purchase, 
 and is highly addictive. It's not long, i'll be honest there, but it's got really good replay value. 
 Whether it's for the PlayStation 3 or Xbox 360, gamers should really enjoy the fifth installment 
 of Biohazard.
  9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ObebadSlapmeFro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  Anyways This game is pretty good. The Bosses are all tentacles and stuff. I dont wanna fight those 
 all the time. And thank goodness this is the end of Las plagas in the RE series cuz that is really 
 lame. But Story mode is good none the less with partner. Mercs is so damn addicting, I always feel 
 like playing for a few min but end up playing over 2 hrs damnittt.. Pros: Graphics, Sound, Online 
 co-op.
  
  Cons: dum tentacle bosses, LAS PLAGAS, Could have made sexier guns and more ppl in Mercs instead 
 of just diff outfits and guns. Nothing close to Re4 story mode.
  
  
  Its still too short. BlA bal bal bla blab bal. Is it enouigh yet i dont want to sit here all day 
 typing Bla bla bvla blal bal bla lbal blabla blab lbalba bla balbal. Almost. cmon. 
  
  Since i have to. Wesker dies in the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubachino
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 7:27 pm PT
Review:  I am a Resident Evil fan so i have to say this was not a bad game. Though it is missing stuff.
 
  
  For one thing where's the darkness? I was hardly ever scared and I don't believe the game attempted 
 to scare me as they have in the past. I mean seriously I hated playing Resident Evil games in the 
 dark. Resident Evil 5 though I had no problem playing in the dark.
  
  Where are the puzzles? I can only recall messing around with the concentrated beam of lights and 
 mirrors like three times. There is no back tracking to figure anything out just move forward with 
 guns a blazing.
  
  I have to say they took a couple of steps back on this one. Compared to the last installment of 
 Resident Evil where everything seemed new yet you knew what game you where playing. Resident Evil 
 5 is basically just another shooter with Resident Evil references.
  
  I think Capcom should have spent more time on the story and the feel of the game than on the beautiful 
 visuals. Resident Evil 5 is by far the best looking game in the series graphically speaking. Look 
 at the skin textures on the main characters and the details in the slums around some of the stages. 
 And what was up with all that cheese? You know trying to make Jill something she's not. That almost 
 went in the wrong direction. I was literally upset when they started to hint at her. Come on Capcom 
 you could do better than that.
  
  Don't get me wrong I very much enjoyed the game. I was just hoping for that wow factor I had when 
 I played Resident Evil 4. Instead I got hey another Call of Duty game with monsters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrFisty
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 25, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 would be more accurately titled Resident Evil 4: Africa. It's largely the same 
 game. You arrive in a foreign (read: non-US) country. Locals give you funny looks. Locals attempt 
 to kill you. A chainsawed, sack-wearing codger chases you through shanty town alleyways. And you 
 eventually come across a member of your support team roasting on a fire. Yes, it's note-for-note. 
 Well, except that everyone is black.
  
  Actually, that's not true. The first details of Resident Evil 5's plot and locale blew in on the 
 tailwinds of a racial tornado. So Capcom have added a bit of S to their P by inserting just enough 
 whiteys to defer the fact you're on a genocidal rampage, despite the fact they're all infected 
 with a non-denominational tentacled parasite. Hell, even your sidekick and pack-mule, Sheva, is 
 about as white as you can get and still make the door list at The Apollo.
  
  But this all becomes something of a non issue once you discover that EVERYTHING is out to kill 
 you. Dogs, crocodiles, barrels, telephone poles. It's all against you, thanks in no small part 
 to the black, slimy gloop that is the Uroboros virus, filling in for Las Plagas from the last game. 
 Of course, it doesn't take long before you realise ol' dependable Wesker is behind the whole tentacled 
 mess. Predictable plotlines ensue, including a sequence that will largely have you shouting at 
 the screen when late in the game Chris Redfield asks "What do you mean... us?" when it's been painfully 
 obvious to everyone else from the second chapter. Without spoiling it for anyone, the whole Jill 
 Valentine plot is tied off just a little too quickly and neatly for my liking. Jill is a Resident 
 Evil staple, yet receives only a bit part in the overall story and dialogue that largely involves 
 a lot of hissing and apologies. In the end, the whole sordid affair is tied off where only the 
 craziest and flimsiest of sequels would allow it to continue. But still, this is Resident Evil, 
 so they may prove me wrong.
  
  Graphically, Resident Evil 5 is very impressive. The game looks great and sounds great too. The 
 problem is that while all the pieces are there to create a moody, atmospheric and pants-wreckingly 
 terrifying game, you're likely to find scarier things in your toilet. Even now, I'm struggling 
 to give one genuinely scary example. Even the first appearance of the bag-hatted chainsaw enthusiast 
 is more likely to fill you with deja vu instead of fear. And that's where it becomes evident Resident 
 Evil has now become a horror-themed action game, not a survival horror game. Why would I worry 
 about a room full of Lickers when I'm armed to the gills with enough firepower to bring down most 
 of the civilised world? Or when I can just tiptoe past them? Previous games gave you three bullets 
 and a shirt button every hour or so. This one drops more prizes than The Price Is Right.
  
  Yeah, we've all heard about the inventory issues, but it's really only an issue because the game 
 insists on giving you items every few steps, so you'll likely fill your inventory slots before 
 you've cleared the first room. Yes, Sheva's priorities are a little off when it comes to using 
 items, but the general rule of thumb is that if you don't want her to use something, don't give 
 it to her.
  
  The controls work without too many issues. Yes it would be nice to reload while moving, but at 
 least it adds some vague element of urgency. The laser targeting takes a little getting used to, 
 but again, if it were made easier, the game would just lose another layer of suspense.
  
  But I've really made the game seem worse than it is and Resident Evil 5 actually is worth more 
 than the sum of its parts. Albeit one of the shorter and shallower entries in the series, it's 
 still good fun. It's not particularly scary, but it's still a good monster game. There are enough 
 great sequences throughout and good boss fights to keep it interesting, even if you've met a few 
 of the bosses before. If you're a diehard there is plenty of replay in unlocking the unlockables, 
 though upgrading all weapons is a bit of a grind.
  
  It's not the best in the series, but it is still an enjoyable game. Let's just hope that they keep 
 to their promises of completely rebooting the series when number 6 rolls into town. Or set it in 
 Australia. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rothinzil
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  First of all, the graphics are stunning and probably the best I've seen so far, perhaps even better 
 then Metal Gear Solid 4, which is understandable considering it's nearly 10 months old. The character 
 models are highly realistic and so are the surroundings. There's no room for discussion, the graphics 
 are top-notch.
  Resident Evil 5 picks up the storyline where 4 ended, and you once again take control of Chris 
 Redfield, the original protagonist from Resident Evil. This time you're accompanied by Sheva Alomar, 
 a newcomer to the series and a very helpful partner indeed. Africa is the new setting of the series 
 and it's up to Chris and Sheva to stop Wesker at all costs.
  The controls have been getting mixed reviews, and I have to admit it takes some time to get used 
 to if you've been playing other current-gen Modern Action Adventure games recently. It might be 
 hard at first, not being able to run-and-gun your way through the game, but that's just not Resident 
 Evil. You'll get the hang of it soon enough though and I've found them to work, plain and simple.
 
  In my opinion, the best asset to the game is the possibility to co-op with a friend, both online 
 or offline. I've been playing the game with others so much it's gotten boring just playing it by 
 yourself, and having a actual friend at your side, in the middle of the action, is addictive to 
 say the least.
  In short, Resident Evil 5 is solid fun and if you're looking to kick some ass with a co-op player, 
 be sure to get this game, you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pat12kenny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  Where to start on a series that is possibly the biggest game franchise of all time. The controls 
 are solid and so is the gameplay the graphics are also very good the only coulors you really see 
 though are yellow and grey. You play through the game as Chris Redfield [ the guy from resident 
 evil 1 and code veronica] Jill does not accompany you though this time around instead is Sheava 
 Alomar an african native. Resident evil cant really be called a survival horror game anymore as 
 the game is mostly action orientated. Sheva can be quite frustrating at times because she will 
 get in your way and is too triger happy especially with handgun ammo. The game will take an average 
 player about twelve hours of playtime which isnt that long compared to some of the other resident 
 evil games around. Chris looks like he is on steroids but he is still cool. Overrall resident evil 
 is a great game and you should definetley buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SKELETOR555
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 10:58 pm PT
Review:  To start off I have been waiting for this game for a long time. It was worth it. My brother and 
 I have beaten the story mode twice and a friend and I have also played together. This game is just 
 awesome playing with a buddy. It has some of the same characteristics of R E 4 and I think that 
 is a good thing. I dont want to talk to much about the game to give anything away, just play it, 
 especially with a friend. You will not be disappointed. If you are looking for a great co-op game 
 this one is for you.
  
  (Waring may contain Spoilers) 
  
  One of the coolest things about this game is the mercenaries mode, unlocked after beating the game 
 once.
  I have spent hours playing with a buddy and I think its more fun than playing story mode. 
  
 
  (End of Spoilers)
  
  You will have to see for yourself. Last thing i have to say is get this game, its awesome, especially 
 if your a fan of the Resident Evil Series, or even if you are not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: descascaralho
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 24, 2009 6:07 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is another one of those examples that a game is extremely advertised and expected but in 
 the end it real fails to meet my expections and probably more other people expectations.
  Dont take me wrong though the game is excelent and well worth to be played and enjoyed but its 
 one of those games
  that you play it once and.... its done.. ok you played Resident Evil 5 you enjoyed it until it was 
 finished and... somethings missing.. all that hype about the game is missing in the end.. because 
 when you play it the game feels rather short and easy and if you are an assiduous gamer like I 
 am and try at least every good game that comes around you got the feeling you played already something 
 like that in other games and in some it was better.. especially if you played resident evil 4.. I 
 easily go for a 9 reaching 10 mark to resident evil 4 but when I come across resident evil 5 I 
 really cant go past the 8 mark because.. its not new or ground breaking like RE4 was in any aspect..
 
  About the game itself... Well 
  
  Graphis: Obviously top notch but hey every good game has graphics like that now too..
  
  Zombies: 
 Everywhere and in great numbers.. feels a little like left 4 dead sometimes but whitout the great 
 playability that left 4 dead has that lets you shoot 8763256 zombies in 3 seconds..
  In RE 5 you have to aim (and cant move while doing so) and hit the right spots.. and sometimes its 
 a bad idea aiming for the head
  because a huge.. worm.. thing... whatever that is comes out of their head and its hard like hell 
 to kill, and offcourse you have that ammo problem too that fortunally is not a problem
  anymore when you start reaching later levels.. and assuming you didnt give too much ammo to Sheva.
 
  
  Playability: Well if you played other Resident evils and especially the 4th one you know what to 
 expect.
  
  Bosses: Big, nasty, very good looking (On the horror aspect) and... slow.. and very easy to kill..
 
  Just shoot on the right spot and dodge them until they are dead. Seriously I killed one with a 
 bazooka shot on the mouth... and that was it.. Well ok it was a bazooka and you cant always have 
 one with you and you only have one shot.. but still if you dont miss the shot every boss is toasted.. If 
 not killed imediatelly they will be in very bad shape after one bazooka shot.
  
  Cinematics: Preety good actually.. I really enjoyed them though they are a little short but some 
 are interactive too and lets you dodge and things like that while they are playing so it feels
 
  kinda like a movie.. Not talking about a metal gear solid 4 but still good.
  
  Characters: Well.. they are overall good.. But the dialogues are kinda lame in my opinion and Sheva 
 can be sometimes more a rock in your shoe then a helper.. Seriously she keeps getting in my way 
 when want to shoot some zombies and keeps wasting all the ammo I give to her so.. hey Sheva.. Keep 
 the pistol because thats the only thing you will get from me.. oh you can give her the flamethrower 
 too in one of the bosses.. she surprisingly handled that very well.
  
  So.. overall this is a 8 because its enjoying and never gets boring shooting zombies and managing 
 your inventory in resident evil games (You have to love the continuos using of green and red herbs.. this 
 goes so way back ;) ... and hey its a resident evil game.. ok and Shevas butt is not bad too LOL.. she 
 must know it because she keeps putting herself in my way.. Still dont expect to play it and repeat 
 it often because it brings nothin new and gets old in 2 or 3 weeks.
  Ah and that advertisingFear you cant forget "... I have no idea what are they talking about.. because 
 not once you feel fear or slightly scared.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Epochend
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  If there's one question that's bothered most sane people ever since the first Resident Evil, it's 
 this: why on earth would you ever split up when surrounded by flesh-eating zombies for miles around? 
 RE5 finally addresses this issue by letting you go through with a partner, which has all sorts 
 of interesting effects on the game... (Note: I've only really played this game in single-player, 
 so I won't be bearing multiplayer in mind so much.)
  
  ~
  
  Pros:
  
  + Intense: Building on the great developments of its predecessor, RE5 cranks it up and makes the 
 gameplay even more intense - even with the two of you, you'll often be utterly surrounded, and 
 especially in the beginning you'll have to claw your way out of some deeply nasty situations...
 
  
  + Real-time Inventory: The fact that you can only go through your items in real-time is a great 
 feature that should have been implemented sooner, making the game even more intense as you try 
 to get your herbs out in time. Thankfully, you can assign certain items to be pulled out instantly 
 with the D-pad buttons, preventing things from becoming too frustrating in the thick of battle.
 
  
  + Co-op: There are moments where you really do feel the genius of having two players, and they 
 invariably revolve around times when you have to actively work together to beat certain opponents, 
 or when you end up seperated, either covering each-other from afar or nervously waiting to see 
 if the other player will make it. There aren't as many of these moments as I would have liked, 
 but the basic idea works a treat.
  
  + Secrets & Longveity: There's a huge amount to do in terms of secrets and unlockables, and the 
 Mercenaries sub-game is back in full force. I particularly like that you can upgrade almost any 
 weapon you like to have infinite ammo now, which can make things very amusing when you do it with 
 a magnum!
  
  Cons:
  
  - Not Scary: It's certainly intense, but with the addition of another player and the non-stop action 
 focus, there wasn't a single moment where I actually felt scared in RE5 - even RE4 managed this 
 on occasion. And for the love of God, zombies with guns are both ridiculous and completely unintimidating!
 
  
  - Frustrating Co-op AI: The AI sidekick is reasonably smart, shooting accurately and knowing when 
 to give you items you need - it does have some fairly serious drawbacks, though. It wastes a lot 
 of ammo by never going for headshots, doesn't know what weapons to use for what situations, tends 
 to shoot you repeatedly if you get in the way at all, and is a touch too eager to use healing items. 
 I've no doubt it's both more fun and more efficient playing with another person, but that's little 
 use for anti-social bods like me!
  
  - Inventory Issues: I only had a few issues with the inventory, but they really niggled away at 
 me because they were all things that were previously fine in RE4: Why do discarded items vanish 
 into thin air? Why does everything sell for such pitifully small amounts? Why can't you use yellow 
 herbs to gradually increase the size of your health bar? Why can't you combine certain treasures 
 into much more valuable things? I'm sure balancing for co-op came into these decisions somewhere, 
 but regardless, it doesn't feel as right as RE4 did. Trading items with your partner is also incredibly 
 fiddly and annoying: having some kind of temporary side-space for swapping items would have been 
 a good idea.
  
  - Awkward Movement: Technically there's little difference from RE4 in terms of control and movement, 
 but the increased pace and intensity of everything means you'll quickly become frustrated with 
 how slow and fumbly your aiming and movement is. I think the camera is also much closer to the 
 player than in RE4, which only makes it trickier to navigate properly.
  
  - Neglected Story: Even more so than RE4, the slowly-unravelling story is all-but gone, and while 
 the story is still there (and even more loopy than ever, though I hear Code: Veronica was the game 
 that turned things truly silly in the plot) , the presentation and pacing is far less compelling 
 than those of the originals.
  
  - Racially Dubious: In all honesty, I don't think the game is racist: in terms of story and dialogue, 
 there's nothing to support those claims, and in fact the focus is on corporations abusing these 
 areas more than anything else. However, when you're wandering around a wooden village, gunning 
 down tribal members who barely resemble zombies with your high-tech weaponry, and looting all their 
 ancient treasures to fund your escapades, it's hard to shake that 'Zulu' feeling...
  
  - Quicktime Events: As with RE4, I don't mind the occasional quicktime event, but some chains of 
 them in cutscenes take a lot of trial and error to survive, which is just frustrating.
  
  ~
  
  To be fair, a lot of the issues I had could be resolved somewhat by just playing with 
 another person; but the series was always single-player up 'til now, and that should oblige the 
 developers to make the single-player game as strong as possible before focusing on multiplayer. 
 Still, whether you play it alone or not, the game is a blast to play, and they certainly carried 
 out the co-op idea with conviction, to the point where I suspect the series may never turn back 
 from it - I just hope they eventually return more to the tense, frightening vulnerability of the 
 originals, in which case we'll truly have something special. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12291979
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  You may have heard by now that Resident Evil 5 was just a shinier version of Resident Evil 4. That 
 is not really the case. Although RE5 has extremely similar controls as RE4 and may often feel like 
 an updated version of RE4, it is in fact quite a different game. The graphics are really impressive 
 and the cut scenes are flawless. Your new partner, Sheva, is super hot making the game more visually 
 pleasant than RE4. LOL
  
  Yes, there are many similarities between RE4 and RE5, but is that really a bad thing? When Resident 
 Evil 4 came out it was if not the best game, one of the best games to come out in 2005. Now, four 
 years later, we are lucky to have an improved and different version of RE4 and some people complain 
 that it's not "new" enough? Once you have a successful formula for an awesome game, why change 
 it? To me, Resident Evil 5 is having the same great impact on me as Resident Evil 4 had. Bravo 
 Capcom! You've done it again. First Street Fighter 4, now Resident Evil 5. Capcom dominates! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ouji-San
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:49 am PT
Review:  First off.. This was stated that it was a Horror game. Althoough it plays and feels like a shooter 
 this can feel horror-ish due to enviroments and situation.
  
  Resident Evil 5 takes place in Africa in a Area known as Kijuju (fictional Not Real I think its 
 around Nigera and Camaroon areas) .
  
  Having said this you are Fighting in africa having said that Its just a game and Not a Racial thing 
 about killing africas as its shows there are arabs and White people in the game being killed by 
 you and your African Partner..
  
  Resident evil 5 plays out great, The over the shoulder Gameplay implemented from/since Resident 
 Evil 4 is still just as good and amazing to see from that point of view. the Cover system is weak 
 in many ways as its only on certain spots of the game (when the Manji Have guns.) Although not 
 as Fustrating as you might think.
  
  The menu system has a new lift now.. as anyone is familar with Dead Space knows about its Menu 
 system and it being in Real time giving you more tension over who is attackin you while you combine 
 a Red and Green herb can be somewhat Fustrating but part of the fun... just hide somewhere and 
 do it or give it to sheva and she will sort it out while you attack them.
  
  Sheva Is your partner and Part of this story I believe is partners stick together till the very 
 end.. which is exact case for this game. You and your partner wheather it being A. I or Human have 
 to stick together work out a plan and work side by side.. Not doing your own thing Even with the 
 A. I if you do your own thing she will try her best to stick with you if YOu dont have her commanded 
 to attack she will provide you with Support. With a Human its just the question of sending commands 
 so that the other person can hear or understand what YOu want him or her to do (if you dont have 
 a Mic) .
  
  A. I - Please note that the A. I is not Human. Its built really well done in my Opinion although 
 at some siutuations you tend to wander if its not perfect which it isnt But still not some bot 
 that will do random things and get you killed the A. I really does what she/it/he can do. She funny 
 enough will not use Grenade at enemies when she runs out of ammo... thats the only Flaw I can see 
 about the Combat side of her.. If you command the A. I properly you will get the job done properly.
 
  
  If you can have access to PSN/Live or even a System link or even Two controler (split Screen) to 
 play with another Human sure try it but try and stick with them as im sure they want to beat the 
 game with you as you want with him.
  
  Weapons - Weapons on this game is a must to check which one is best for you. and which one is most 
 effective for this and that foe. Although If you are a Weapon Junkie you just might like this. 
 The ammount of Weapons on this game is not as Many as some would think. Although I Prefer quality 
 instead of quantity and if you have too much weapons like in RE4 you end up buying and selling 
 guns too many times causing you to waste your own time on weapons that really makes close to zero 
 differnce.. They consist of:
  
  Hand Guns
  Magnums
  Shotguns
  Machine Guns / Assult Guns
  Sniper Rifels
  Grenade Launchers
  Rocket Launchers / Gataling 
 Gun (chris only) .
  Stunt Rod
  Grenades/Stun Grenade/ Incinarating Grenade.
  
  Etc ( Acid and flame rounds available for Grenade Launcher)
  
  Shop System - The shop system 
 replaced the Merchant from RE4 although Still a Brillaint way to have a place to upgrade your weapons. 
 Fits well into the game as If you die you get to re organise your weapons and upgrade them or even 
 buy and sell them Although Selling items can sometimes be worthless as a a Handgun ammo is 1 credit.. 
 and some weapons can be sold for close to a Major loss on the cash you paid for it which is a downer 
 about the selling of anything on this game except Treasures.
  
  One added feature on this shop system is that you can organise your items for both Chris and sheva. 
 and a Storage Space (so if you picked up too much stuff you can put it away for later such as F-Aid 
 sprays) .
  
  There is a Glitch on this item system on the game where you can Pick up items quit your game and 
 start that stage over with that Item you picked up and Pick that item again up... Whoring the crap 
 out of items in that area.. So if your stuck have a go at that.
  
  Graphics - brillaint Very well done espectially on the Textures on the Character (look at chris 
 BSAA Uniform) backgrounds and lighting has been done exetionaly well in this game.
  
  Cinematics has been done so well its like if its a action Movie (not a stupid one at that) .
  
 
  Sound/Music - Quiet fitting I must say the music Score done in Hollywood has Done a real Great 
 Job at putting the score up. The feeling one gets with the Music is and can be intensifying. The 
 Sound Effects though I will say isnt somethin remade. Its basicaly RE4 sound effects maybe re done 
 but sounds the same... Although I have heard sound effects from Resident Evil 2 that brought back 
 memories.. (awsome) .
  
  Gameplay - Gameplay is good still with its RE4 elements into it altho While Playing on Veteran 
 the Enemies didnt always leave a Load of Ammo at your disposal leaving you at times with close 
 to no ammo which is good will give you tension and make you think "mmm should I stab him or just 
 pass him" in order to continue..
  
  Enemie system is and can be well done as there are times they do some strange thing but unlike 
 the Demo they dont just stand there and wander.. they actually go for you.. Running at you and 
 then slowly stop to anticipate your attack.
  
  Dogs on the one hand can be a bit of a problem that and Mutants (would be a spoiler so I wont go 
 into it) although NOT impossible to kill... just some work.
  
  Controlers - Controler have been kept to the Old Resident Evil games with the exception of Strifing 
 side to side (Type D is Defult for it) . and that the Possition for the action and Run buttons have 
 been swoped around (which still is okay) ..
  
  You cannot Run and Gun.. so if your that type of person I suggest Download the Demo and try it 
 out before you go futher on.. its just Realistic.. that you cannot run and shoot accuratly at the 
 same time.. this has been prooven by the Producer who is a Good Marksman himself.
  
  Difficulties - Note that This game isnt that hard. Although if you think you a good gamer I suggest 
 Playing it on veteran if you not sure play it on Normal. Proffesional Mode is Unlocked once you 
 beat the game on Veteran which isnt impossible nor easy but Can be Challenging..
  
  This concludes:
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Story: 9.0/10
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  Sound: 9.0/10
 
  
  Score: 9.0/10
  
  PS. A Must to try out by Fans. If your not familiar with Resident Evil this game still would be 
 enjoyable by you..
  
  
  
  Review Writen by: Ouji-San
  
  P PS I finished the Game On Vertan with the A. I on 14Hours First Playthrough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radman2117
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 3:11 am PT
Review:  Hi my nam is Radman2117 and this is my review of Resident Evil 5.
  Resident Evil 5 Stars a popular character from other resident evil games called Chris Redfield 
 and a new Female character call Sheva Alomar.
  
  This game is a great addition to the Resident Evils series and has lots of new features like cooperative 
 mode through single player and unlockable modes and more unlockable content. It has great graphics 
 great storyline is very satysfying for those hungry for a new game to play. Boss battles are epic 
 and so are the normal enemies it really is a case of survival in a dark place.
  
  Strong points about this game are its graphics, sound, gameplay and definately the new features its 
 almost flawless, it has a great cooperative singleplayer where each player can be brought to the 
 brink of death and be recucsitated in a certain time limit which makes gameplay even more epic.
 
  
  Weak points there arent may its nearly a flawless game.
  
  Overall I give it 9.5/10 and reccomend it to all Resident Evil fans and all Gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ahmed39109876
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  resident evil 5 is a game that wont dissaapoint the game is more difficult thanks to lots of enemys 
 that oyu have to fac eand the realtime inventory changer while it adds alot of relasim changin 
 weapon while 10 zombies attack you is painfull
  
  the only reason it didnt take a 10 out of 10 is because of small mistake that the over all excperience 
 cover for they took out the option too combine treasure and the merchent that we all loved but 
 they gave us a partner that will fight literly back to back with you maniging your inventory with 
 her is vital but you will get the hang of things .
  
  as for the controls there prety much the same as resident evil 4 , and for the people who complain 
 about the fact that you cant move while shooting this is the way resident evil is just learn to 
 love it insted of critsizing it if you want to shoot and run go play cod4 or 5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicklech16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 4:30 am PT
Review:  Frankly, I wasn't expecting very much of Resident Evil 5. I expected it to be an action-packed 
 and good-looking zombie-orgy, nothing more and nothing less. But surprisingly enough it is so much 
 more than that.
  
  Besides stunning graphics and an interesting African setting Resident Evil 5 scores with numerous 
 other highlights. After the game took stick over its controls before it even came out it was especially 
 surprising to me that the very controls make the game as exciting as few games I played before. 
 Because Chris is slightly able to move while aiming the battles against hordes of zombies left 
 me breathless in front of my TV. In combination with an addicting way of customizing your various 
 weapons and an gloriously awful zombie-design the battles are very intense and even chased me in 
 my dreams (no joke!) .
  
  Moreover the coop-mechanic with Sheva works out from the very beginning of the game, even when 
 played solo. Soon I found myself organizing the inventories, helping each other out and literally 
 fighting back-to-back. Shevas AI acts great most of the time which makes her one of the best partners 
 I've ever had in a videogame. Another highlight is the excellent level design in Resident Evil 
 5 which always offers secret rooms and alternate routes on different levels. I really enjoyed searching 
 every corner of the levels not only because it's of vital interest to find as many ammo and treasures 
 as possible.
  
  All the negative aspects of Resident Evil 5 are only minor letdowns. The animations of Sheva, Chris 
 and their zombie-opponents recur very often and Shevas AI crowds Chris in an sometimes annoyingly 
 manner. The nerving sound effects which occur with each single step and Chris' extremely over-proportioned 
 biceps (why does this guy have to wear kneepads?!) doesn't really inflict the overall gameplay. 
 Particularly because there are so much highlights on the other hand: a splendid oversized storyline 
 and awesome cutscenes, emersed voice-acting, entertaining and action-packed quicktime-events and 
  of course  outstanding visual design.
  
  All of this makes Resident Evil 5 not only a huge surprise to me, but simply one of the most entertaining 
 and yet thrilling games I've ever played! This game clearly belongs in every well-assorted game-collection! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: novajosh923
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2009 11:39 pm PT
Review:  I waited so long to get this game but when I got it I felt kinda disappointed because of the camera 
 angels and the fact that I beat it in 2 days. The one good thing is the Mercenaries mode. The story 
 line is okay, good graphics, very smart AI but sometimes she can get annoying. It wont win game 
 of the year with tough competition from Killzone 2 and Street Fighter 4 leading the way but it 
 can come a close fourth with future titles on the way. Maybe if they put out some good download 
 content to make the people who bought the game a good reason to keep it. After the first day of 
 beating the game I thought about bringing the game back for Ultimate Ninja 4 but than I played 
 Mercenaries mode and got hooked onto it. The people online can get annoying for the people playing 
 who don't catch on fast enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacoura
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 10:33 pm PT
Review:  Minor spoiler ahead.
  Resident Evil 5 is a isnt a direct to the forth installement but follows it same evolved control 
 scheme. The story stays shut for Leon and the young Ashley but this installement continues the 
 story of the first installemnt male protagonist Chris Redfiled also the borther to Claire redfield 
 the second instalment female protagonist and also protagonist of code veronica and the movie degeneraration. 
 So Chris has joined a group called the BSAA (Bioterrorism Security Assesement Agency) , in his effort 
 to wipe out all of Umbrella's left over's now being sold to the black market as bioweapons. Therefor 
 Chris is sent to afrika to intercept a deal of bioweapons but on the set he is teamed with Sheva 
 Alemar a local BSAA agent to help him around. Upon reaching the scene of the exchange some mysterious 
 cloaked character's steal's the show and flee's with the merchandise and Chris finds a picture 
 of his former partner Jill Valentine also female protagonist of RE 1 and main protagonist of RE 
 3. With these news and the approval of Sheva they go hunting for the souvenir of a presumed dead 
 partner and long time franchisoe favorite Jill.
  
  Main pro's
  - Action Packed
  - Has alot more to do with the history of RE than RE 4
  - Lots of replay value.
  - Solid online 
 fun
  
  Main con's
  - Story is told like Metal gear solid 4
  - Not scary (as for its the franchise sakes)
  - nothing new over RE4 except for the scenery
 
  - Jill is blonde 0_o
  
  Action packed, 
  The game form start to finish has lots of ennemis lots of techniecks and gun's and many levels 
 to destroy. impale, blow, shoot. The action feels good, the weapons powerful and deadly. the ennemis 
 seems to have a brain and attack with realism. having a teamate along side you is cool, she can 
 watch your back and help you in times of need. youll never feel lonely because waves and waves 
 of ennemis just keeps on coming !!.
  
  Has alot more to do with the history of RE than RE 4.
  RE 4 had this europeen side story with 
 nothing really to do with the older RE. but this one revivesall of the roots and goes back to explain 
 all of the virus's origins and th background of umbrella. talks about what chris and the stars 
 member has been doing and how and who wesker is really. 
  
  Lots of replay value.
  From start to finish you will want to play again on the different difficulties, try to acheve all 
 of the games achevements and also wanna play and over play the mini game merceneries which is simply 
 outstandingly fun. 
  
  Solid online fun.
  Having a AI teammate can do but a live friend is better, makes every experience different and and 
 has much more dept than the plain normal AI. Coop is nice but an add on is come out to be versus 
 thats gonna be kicking ass for sure.
  
  Story is told like Metal Gear Solid 4.
  Overall MGS4 story and setting has blown away lots of people and RE 5 try t kinda have a similiar 
 feeling, the beginning kinda cts as the same as MGS4 and alots of the plot twist and the deviations 
 are remeniscent of MGS4, some may beleive it simply inspired but feels like it simply wants to 
 draw the same feeling. Its a bad thing since it doesnt really fits in the mood, the game is already 
 very exotick adding thenew story feeling the new gameplay its makes a fun but weird hybrid of perverted 
 sales provoker.
  
  Not Scary.
  Well RE set a standard and even a revolution as its beginning now its going to be simply a mixing 
 of everything popular. Well Horror is popular and RE 5 stays out mainly cuase you have a compagnon 
 along side at all time, the ennemis are very basic except for red eyes nothing special there thats 
 creepy, theyre tensefulla nd menacing bu not creepy. theres no jumper at all, theres some lame 
 atttemps but they fail.
  
  Nothing new over Re 4.
  The gameplay is the same in every aspect, the inventory has changed but its nothing new, the ennemeis 
 are the exact same from RE 4 ecept that now they run, the naimatiosn are the same for most of the 
 actions. only a few boss's are new but for most part only the backgroung and setting ahs changed, 
 from spanish crazed to wacko's blacko's but they more sexy this time lol alot of shirtless people 
 !!.
  
  Jill is blonde.
  Title pretty mush says it all !! he is rather brown or light brown but not blonde.
  
  Overall 
 the game is fun its nto Resident evil anymore and its getting lost in transitions fortrying ti 
 be what its nto, I fear it will dye if another installemnt comes out with the fame foundation of 
 the ecent ones. But for what it is, its simply alot of funa nf its worth to see the beaty and the 
 power of the game simply dont expect Residnet evil except for the characters, even then theyre 
 made over too -_-. 
  
  It's A 8.0 !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazackward
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  This game has been pretty enjoyable to play with two human players. We enjoy playing games together 
 and, so far, late-2008 to early-2009 has kind of sucked. We picked this up yesterday and have been 
 playing whenever we have time to do so. I had to set it on Amateur so that it would be enjoyable 
 for both of us. Even on that difficulty setting there have been some tense moments, but mainly 
 the story has been great to follow so far.
  
  As for the good and the bad:
  
  GOOD:
  
  * Two people can split-screen the game and it's a lot of fun
  * Graphics and story are great
 
  * The assists you can perform to save your partner are great and easy to perform
  * Addictive
  * For a shooter, it has a good aiming system for those not so great at shooters
 
  
  BAD:
  
  * Ammo can really become a problem if you use your guns to kill everything (which you should be 
 able to do with no problem IMO)
  * Can't purchase ammo
  * AI (if you don't have a 2nd human player) is a liability
  * Not scary at all
  
  BOTTOM 
 LINE: Fun to play with somebody else (even if they are pretty casual) and a great story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaneLynch
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 1:09 pm PT
Review:  Most of the game that it is disappointing when you compare with Resident Evil 4 .But I completely 
 disagree with it. I think it is a revolutionary game for our game consoles with its spectacular 
 graphics quality. Every game could have some ineffective and unnecessary parts, but it must not 
 have considered bad. Unlike the Resident Evil 4, you have a partner to the end of the game and 
 it makes the game easier and simpler. Your partner (Sheva Alomar) always warns you when your ammo 
 gets low or your health decreases, she gives you ammo or helps increasing your health. You can 
 give or request items from your partner . I think Chris and Sheva are perfect partners for the 
 story and players. 
  Secondly, game is quite exciting and it makes you hook on the game! You get amazed with the high 
 quality of graphics and it really makes you feel the hot weather in Africa and the zombies are 
 faster, smarter and stronger that you have to pull the trigger quicker than you do in Resident 
 Evil 4. 
  In conclusion : I strongly recommend Resident Evil 5 if you are mad about horror genre!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_032
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is essentially a great game. It builds on the gameplay mechanics that were introduced 
 in Resident Evil 4 back in 2005. Your camera is still over the shoulder, aiming is still done with 
 a laser, and the fighting is just as intense, if not a little more in some areas. If you've played 
 RE4, then RE5 will be quite easy to pick up and play, however, the two are entirely different games. 
 For instance, RE4 felt a lot like a horror game, due to the prevailing dark atmosphere, enemies 
 that persistently tried to kill you, and the feeling that you were on your own. RE5 takes a slightly 
 different approach; cut scenes are still "real-time", enemies are still persistently trying to 
 kill you, but now you have the luxury of having a teammate who will watch your back. That is, assuming 
 you play this game online or on split-screen. RE5 is clearly meant to be played with a human player, 
 but even that presents some problems.
  
  The game picks up right where the 4th one left off, although this time the fight is in Africa, 
 and your mission is slightly different. You are thrown into the shoes of Chris Redfield once again, 
 and team up with a woman named Sheva Alomar. For the most part, cinematics and dialogue will do 
 a great job of explaining the plot, the backstory (regarding Jill Valentine) , and you really feel 
 like you're diving into an elaborate conspiracy.
  
  But without giving away too much of the game's plot, I really want to emphasize the strong and 
 weak points about the gameplay. To start off, almost 75% of the game feels familiar to RE4. Aiming 
 and movement are independent of each other, and you're still finding and selling treasure for money. 
 The attache case from RE4 is gone, instead replaced by 9 slots, all of which are outfitted before 
 each level. While it certainly is great not having to worry about how many squares a certain weapon 
 fills up, this now means that carrying every type of weapon is no longer a strategic advantage. 
 You'll need to think carefully about how much weapons, ammo, healing items, and armor you pack 
 with you. Selecting items and equipping weapons is done on the fly (no longer in a pause menu) 
 which adds a level of urgency during fights. Perhaps the most noticeable difference about this 
 game is the focus on teamwork; just look at the box art, the direction Capcom went with RE5 is 
 quite obvious. 
  
  In a nutshell, RE5 can be played through online co-op, in split-screen, or offline. The latter 
 is the least favorable option for a number or reasons. For instance, Sheva's A. I., while not dumb 
 as bricks, isn't particularly sharp either. Sheva has quite a hard time lining up accurate shots, 
 and will often spend rounds shooting targets at a distance with even a pistol. Simply put, Sheva 
 wastes ammo. This presents a lot of problems if you are the type who likes to conserve ammo; which 
 you inevitably will have to do as the game progresses. Even if you give her the electric shock 
 baton, she still has a bit of trouble getting at the proper distance to use it. One thing she is 
 good at however, is healing, which in the heat of battle is sometimes hard to do. So while having 
 Sheva on your team doesn't feel like babysitting Ashley, she definitely feels like a liability 
 at some points in the game.
  
  Most of what I just said isn't a problem if you're playing with another human player, since most 
 competent human players will go for the headshots. Players can drop in at any point in the game, 
 and its nice to be able to have a teammate that will actually make your life easier. Just make 
 sure that if it's your game session that you're hosting, pick up the weapons hidden in the game, 
 otherwise the other player gets it instead. My only gripe is that you can't give weapons to your 
 team mate.
  
  Gameplay issues aside, RE5 is a technical achievement. The graphics are great all-round, offering 
 some fantastic character models, environments, and lighting. The frame rate is consistently smooth 
 as well. The game also has great audio, the soundtrack and ambiance is well done, voice acting 
 is top-notch, and the gun sound effects all sounds crisp.
  
  RE5 is a game that you will spend hours playing, the action is addictive, the guns are satisfying 
 to shoot, and the boss fights are intense. Despite a few problems with AI, the solid gameplay really 
 shines through once you play with another human player.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 6:50 pm PT
Review:  After being unveiled to accusations of racism (Oh no, black people in an African town! Stop them 
 from showing real life!) Resident Evil 5 has arrived. Adding even more action to the more-action 
 oriented RE4 gameplay, as well as a partner at your side, RE5 continues to build on the series' 
 previous success by introducing some new features to keep things fresh.
  
  Though many are inclined to say that the series has become a survival-action, rather than the series' 
 trademark survival-horror gameplay, it still has you on your toes with extreme amounts of tension. 
 As Chris Redfield, you have to make sure your partner, Sheva Alomar doesn't die. You have to manage 
 your 9 inventory slots, as well as Sheva's. (unless you are playing co-op) And of course, you have 
 to keep yourself alive.
  
  While gameplay will clock in around 10 to 12 hours if you just play the game to beat it, expect 
 numerous more hours added on top of that if you pay $5 for the 2-on-2 Versus DLC and try to unlock 
 all of the many bonus features in the game. The game, while it lasts, is addicting, great fun by 
 yourself and is even better when you are playing with a friend. While there are only a few true 
 puzzles where you will actually have to think before doing anything, it doesn't deter from the 
 game. Boss battles are as epic as ever, and the infected are faster and smarter than in previous 
 RE installments. Co-op is where RE5 truly shines. The addition of Sheva adds an entire new dimension 
 to the game and the series, adding whole new types of tension and more fun, and it's at its' best 
 when she is controlled by a friend.
  
  Graphically, Resident Evil 5 is amazing. But there are some textures and such that people (especially 
 PS3 owners who have seen the capabilities of their system in MGS4 and Killzone 2) that aren't all 
 that great. The character models are superb, as well as facial expressions and the motion capture. 
 All just amazingly well done. To go along with it, the bosses are just ugly as f*ck. In a good 
 way though. They are done so well they are as mean, ugly and/or scary as ever!
  
  Hardcore RE fans may be disappointed by this game's straying-away from the horror-based gameplay, 
 but those who do not compare this adventure to Resident Evil 4 and enjoy it for what it is, a great 
 videogame, will enjoy it immensely. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eze_sl89
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The Resindet Evil saga, has been known trough out the years for its creepy and dreadful ambiences, 
 full of zombies and strange creatures waiting to sneak behind you, in every single corner. And 
 scaring the crap out of you!.
  
  But sadly, since RE4, the method s changed a lot, and therefore, the zombies. Instead of zombies 
 (which are think are much more scary) the so called "Ganados" came into scene and here in RE5 the 
 so known "Mujini".
  These guys are not very friendly, but are human beings after all, not zombies. 
  
  Anyway, 
 RE5 is an awesome game; at first, i thought it was more of the same, more Resident Evil 4... but 
 then.. as i played trough the game, it was kinda cool to explore the new environments situated 
 in Africa, full of mysteries and puzzles waiting to be solved. (not to hard to figure out, tough) ..
 
  
  Graphics are great, good use of shaders to create awesome lighting effects.
  Sound and music: really really good. It makes you immerse into the ambience.
  Gameplay: a bit 
 hard to lear the controls at first, but if youve played RE4, they are almost the same.
  Re-playability: sure !, lots of unlockables and stuff to re play the hole story a couple of times, 
 ANDDDD you also can paly it with another HUMAN with the ONline feature.
  
  Resemblance: there were times i tought i was playing Tomb Raider Underworld instead of RE, specially 
 in the Ruins Chapter AND the last chapter which takes part on a ship.
  The first part of the first chapter is "similar" to MGS4, the stage in the african citadel.
  
 and well.. thats it.
  
  RE5 is a great game, full of secrets to unlock, a great coop play if you have internet, and all 
 in all its an awesome adventure you dont wanna miss.
  
  The negative feature: very very similar to RE4, and. NO ZOMBIES! God i love kill zombies !! not 
 crazy humans with viruses !!
  
  You definitely have to get this game, you wont regret it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 21, 2009 3:43 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 has arrived, after 5 long years of waiting and anticipation it's over, and it was 
 worth it. R. E. is set in Africa which makes sense considering the virus came from Africa. (As mentioned 
 in Code Veronica) . First I want to talk about the visuals in R. E. they are phenomenal, the intense 
 sunlight you see is just great. Very deserty, and just looks like Africa should be. This game's 
 visuals are done really well the water effects are just beautiful. Now on to the controls this 
 is what some people had a problem with, the main thing is you can't move while aiming which is 
 fine to me it's just like the controls in the originals. Now some are saying but this is next gen, 
 well some classic features just need to stay. The zombies in R. E. 5 are smarter they will shoot 
 at you and use grenades but nothing that a shotgun or SMG can't take care of. Over to a new feature 
 your A. I. partner, it's actually nice to be able to have some help in this game, she does alright, 
 once in a while she will sometimes empty an entire clip into a zombie but not too bad. This is 
 one of my favorite R. E. games the story is great and of course so are the visuals, and gameplay. 
 Buy this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killakomando
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  To start this off, I have to say i was very impressed by the visual style of the game. As soon 
 as your are in control of Chris you will be indulged in the surrounding enviorment, ooh-ing and 
 ahh-ing at the almost scary detail of the game.
  From seeing heatwaves in the distanst to the random insects crawling around, you will never ceased 
 to be amazed.
  
  The character models in this game are spectacular, seeing veins in Chris' arm or the gloss in Sheva's 
 eye are small touches that make the game complete. All in all the story isn't bad, it never is. 
 The gameplay mechanics are very similar to the playstation 2 version of RE:4 with the square and 
 x buttions swapped priority. The weapons in the game are satisfyingly realistic right down to the 
 sound of a bullet being jacked into the chamber.
  
  Another thing this game brings to the table is CO-OP, one of the best 2 player games to date, going 
 back and forward between weapons and items, gives you a sense of having a capable ally, I have 
 never actually played 1 player so i cant comment on Sheva's AI. Though the screen is split in 2 
 player mode, a 32 inch or more is perfect for both players. the teamwork in the game enables some 
 pretty awesome moves to be carried out, like chaining context sensitvie attacks with one another 
 doing more damage that of which you would do by yourself. Looking cool in the process.
  
  Most people have quarrles with the controls when there are 4 to choose from, Surprisingly fufuilling 
 most gamers needs. I used the Resident Evil 4 controls, so they were perfect for me regaurdless, 
 and those who do the same will find it suits them well too. Although the moving and shooting feature 
 is still missing, it seems it is not needed, the game keeps a remarkable pace from the beginning 
 to the end, throwing quick-time events in the mix to keep you focused.
  
  There are a handful of little neat unlockables and visual easter eggs in the game, like seeing 
 a litteral umbrella with the same colors as the colapsed pharmaceutical antagonist.
  Though the "What are ya buyin" guy is absent in this newest installment, he is replaced a a quiet, 
 more managable and diverese shop, though it lacks the personality, it gets the job done better.
 
  
  Enemy AI is spot on in the higher difficultis, but on normal they are as smart as the "Ganados". 
 Basically running up to you, getting with in 5 feet, backing up, and probably cursing you out in 
 their native toungue. Though its not too easy as where you can post up at a spot and not have to 
 worry abour running out of ammo, or being flanked, which happends alot in the game.
  
  Another treat is the mercanaries mini game, going in with another experianced player can be fun 
 and rewarding all the while, communicating and working toward common goal.
  
  This game is a must-buy for anyone that, likes Co-op and just plain fun.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ResidentEman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 1:49 pm PT
Review:  Well, to begin with I will start by saying my review will probably be quite obvious to everyone 
 that I'm looking through rose colored glasses. I am a huge RE fan and as such I will be the first 
 to admit that it was pretty much determined around the time the first trailer came out that I would 
 love this game. However, I will try my best to be objective, but objectivity is not my strong suit 
 just like war isn't the strong suit of the French. 
  
  Well, now that we got that out of the way, here is the game's basic synopsis: Go through cool environments 
 shooting cool enemies with cool guns and being only slightly annoyed that the cooperative system 
 was the only change from RE4. Well that and the ability to skip directly to the bits of the game 
 you actually want to play as opposed to being held hostage by your least favorite segments to get 
 to your favorites. The graphics are superb and the story is your typical RE over the top fare. 
 But I like that! I like how Resident Evil knows its stories are ridiculous and just plays off that 
 to make the game more fun! Well that and the fact that most people, myself included, are willing 
 to forgive a lot if we get to shoot zombies.
  
  The game puts you in the shows of one of Umbrella's greatest arch enemies, other than human rights 
 groups, the world's governments, and every other individual in the series motivated to bring down 
 bioweapons, Chris Redfield. He is joined by a partner, who quite frankly at the beginning feels 
 like an arbitrary and unnecessary addition to the cast of the series. However, once you replace 
 her adequate, but sometimes stupid AI with one of your friends you will want to build an alter 
 specifically dedicated to her and whoever at Capcom decided to put coop into the game. Having a 
 partner to watch your back is so much fun that you will entirely forget about the fact that the 
 RE series used to be horror based and love the direction Capcom took with this one.
  
  Back to the story, in typical RE fashion you find yourself (almost) alone in a hostile environment 
 where every single person apparently has nothing better to do than kill you. But of course as two 
 agents of the newly invented BSAA, you have plenty of guns and ammo at your disposal to make them 
 wish they had decided to stay home and do the dishes. The guns in the game are sweet and most of 
 the time which one is best is determined by your needs and play style and not which one you unlock 
 later like in every other game. All of the weapons can be heavily upgraded without the presence 
 of a smelly redneck merchant. The upgrading system works well and the fact that the enemies scale 
 up as the game goes on, eventually carrying guns of their own, means that upgrading is necessary 
 rather than optional. But of course all challenge can go to hell once you get your first fully 
 upgraded unlimited ammo shotgun. But that's good! Anyone who remembers the feeling of vindication 
 from mowing down a tough boss with a fraction of the shots with the Chicago Typewriter in RE4 knows 
 what I'm talking about.
  
  Major complaints have been levied at this game because series villain Albert Wesker is killed off 
 in this one, but I feel this was a necessary move if Capcom hopes to reboot the series. Although 
 many people hate how Capcom kills him, I feel they did well for what they had to do. Besides, if 
 you really want a feeling of what it would probably really be like trying to kill him, they do 
 give you the option to fight him on pro mode with the base weapons. But I digress. Overall, every 
 Resident Evil fan should pick this up, along with anyone who enjoys shooting zombies, or action 
 games in general. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Subterranean500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 22, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  The Resident Evil franchise has always been slow to evolve over the years. Ever since the 1st game 
 was released in 1996, the franchise relied on fixed camera angles, tank like controls (which are 
 still in place today) . Ever since Resident Evil 4 was released in 2005, the franchise ditched the 
 fixed camera for an over the head shoulder perspective and more action. RE4 re-invented survival 
 horror in 2004, earning numerous awards, and some even regard it was one of the best games ever 
 made. 4 years after RE4 and Resident Evil 5, is finally released, but is this a worthy follow up 
 to RE4?
  
  Story
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game takes place 10 years after Raccoon City. Chris Redfield has joined B. S. A. A, a organization 
 that fights bio-terrorism. After arriving in Africa, to find a man named Irving, for a deal with 
 a virus. He teams up with Sheva, as they together go after Irving. However something happens, the 
 villagers of the African town starts becoming aggressive and violently attacking everyone. Now 
 Chris and Sheva have to find out what is going on. The story is mildly disappointing, it's supposed 
 to tie up the plot holes in the RE franchise and it does this very poorly (unlike Metal Gear Solid 
 4) . The single player campaign itself offers small revelations and there are some revelations in 
 the files as well, though these should have been cut-scenes instead. That being said though, the 
 story is decent and is at least a bit intense an epic, though the game's big twist is very obvious 
 and predictable. Overall the story is decent, epic and intense, but it could have been way better 
 and still leaves things out in the open for a sequel.
  
  7.5
  
  Gameplay
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 gameplay is more or less just RE4, with a few small improvements. For one thing you can strafe 
 now, items can be selected via quick select and there are more physical attacks now. The biggest 
 change to the gameplay, is Sheva, throughout the whole game, Sheva will follow you and help you 
 with shooting monsters and open doors, gather keys and so on. Her A. I. is mixed. She can take care 
 of her own if she's in trouble, she'll give you the ammo for the weapons you have, and she'll heal 
 and help you when you need, sounds good, but she does have a few issues. Sometimes she'll just 
 stand still and refuse to move, resulting in a few deaths, she can get in your way and if you happen 
 to be in her way, she'll just shoot you and not move unless you do (granted you don't lose health 
 from friendly fire and vice versa) , and she uses ammo rather quickly, which means you need to watch 
 out for what weapons she have.
  
  That's not all the problems; the biggest problem is the controls. You can't move while your shooting, 
 which is really, really stupid, though RE fans will probably have no problems getting used to it. 
 It does bring a certain amont of suspense but it's just a sign, that the RE franchise haven'' evolved 
 since RE4. It means that the new strafe option is actually quite useless. The new item management 
 system is a problem too. Chris and Sheva can each hold 9 items, they can share items between each 
 other, but you can't decide how much. For example if you wanna share some rounds for a handgun 
 with her, Chris will likely give her all the ammo, it's really annoying. Luckily all these problems 
 can be solved by playing it with a buddy. Co-op can be played both off and online and it's better 
 to play, granted your buddy is willing to play through the levels, as some of them can last upwards 
 an hour. When Chris or Sheva loses a lot of health, they will get into the dying state, and they 
 need each other, in other to get out of that state. What's annoying about this is that you have 
 to rely on your buddy to come and help you, you can't use health items during the dying state, 
 which is really annoying when you need help and Sheva's long away from you.
  
  All of this means, that the game just isn't scary, it focuses a lot more on action this time around, 
 and no focus on the horror element. It's disappointing, considering the franchise is the founder 
 of the Survival Horror Genre. There are puzzles in the game, but they're really easy to figure 
 out and for some reason, there's just less quick time events this time around.
  
  The real highlight though, are the boss fights, each has special weak points and their a joy to 
 fight. They provide a good amount of challenge and looks awesome as hell.
  
  The weapon upgrades returns, but this time there's no merchant that you can talk too (sadly) . All 
 upgrades takes place between levels. It's actually quite addicting, and there's a infinite ammo 
 bonus when weapons are upgraded fully.
  
  The game takes around 10-12 hours to complete, which is shorter than RE4's 20 hour campaign. Afterwards, 
 there's the mercenaries mode, which is surprisingly addictive. There are weapons to upgrade, character 
 figures to be bought costumes and filters to unlock. The achievements/trophies for the games provide 
 a great replay value too, requiring you to do everything in the game. 
  
  
  8.5
  
  Graphics
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The game is beautiful, the environments, character design, monster design, everything is so beautiful 
 (though nothing that will look better than Killzone 2) . Only problems are frame rate issues, which 
 happens a few times, though their kept to a minimum.
  
  10
  
  Sound
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  The 
 music is actually quite good and helps with giving that cinematic feeling. The voice acting is 
 generally good, though the lines are a bit cheesy sometimes, which RE fans will probably welcome.
 
  
  8.5
  
  Overall
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  RE5 
 doesn't re-invent the survival horror genre like RE4 did, the game is just RE4 on the next generation, 
 with no real gameplay improvements, save a few minor, and the story isn't the revealing one we've 
 been promised. That being said though, RE5 is still a blast to play through, just don't expect 
 it to be better than RE4.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koi-Neon-X
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:11 am PT
Review:  A preview of Resident Evil 5 and there is where I was hooked. After playing the masterpiece that 
 is Resident Evil 4 (PS2) I picked RE 5 as one of the most anticipated games of 2009. The billing, 
 I would soon learn after purchase, lived up to the hype and more.
  
  I must have played the demo a million times and now that I had the actual game I was ready to dive 
 in. The intro is something to be seen! it has been given the next gen treatment as the graphics 
 are very lush and vibrant.
  
  The first stage is something to behold as well. **SPOILER ALERT**BEGIN:
  walking through the 
 village and seeing what appears to be "normal goings on" in the village from a butcher chopping 
 meat to a group of men beating another in a sack. Amazingly, how they beat the sack and as you 
 approach they just stop and look at you like "hey, yeah, what's up? nothing to see here!" as I've 
 said the town just seems to breath and something feels like the fuse of a keg of dynamite has been 
 lit and is about to explode **SPOILER ALERT**END.
  
  
  The graphics being outstanding I'd like to talk about the music. The soundtrack is haunting to 
 be sure especially when a boss (ie: a chainsaw-swinging maniac shows up) the music becomes absorbed 
 into the brain. The ads were saying "fear you can't forget" well, the music goes on even after 
 you stop playing the game. My interpretation of the music is this: there is something REALLY wrong 
 going on right now and you're in the middle of it.
  I walked slowly towards every corner wondering what would jump out next. The music really adds 
 to the game and does give you a chill without question.
  
  Next, we talk about control. This has been a hot topic in the forums and a complaint with the demo. 
 I am not going to beat this issue in the ground only say that the controls are SPOT ON! a few practice 
 sessions with the demo just to get refreshed and in the actual game it all becomes second-nature. 
 So, VERY EASY + you can adjust the controls to your liking.
  
  
  The story is great. Although it was a hot topic in the beginning let's face it folks: EVERY RACE 
 IS GOING TO GET THE ZOMBIE TREATMENT! I'm even going out on a limb here and hope either a RE 6 
 or RE 7 takes place in Japan! I actually cared about the plight going on! with every chapter passed 
 I couldn't wait to get in even deeper and find out what was really going on.
  The villians are wicked and I got the feeling like I just couldn't wait to use my trusty weapons 
 on ALL of them!
  
  
  **SPOILER ALERT**BEGIN: so, wanna know the part of the game that sticks out in my mind the most? 
 remember (for those of you who have been there) the hallway where the lickers are behind the glass? 
 yeah, they CAN'T see you but, you feel like they are looking right at you!! just waiting. So, slowly 
 walking down the hall (faster than a cannonball-sorry couldn't help it) I creeped to the exit. 
 Ah, you have to kick the door down. The second you hear the glass shatter and Sheva yell "they 
 heard us" had my adrenaline pumping! I thought it was a spectacular moment in the game because 
 the licker is a staple in the series and yeah, they are creepy. Well done on this part! **SPOILER 
 ALERT**END
  
  
  Everything connects well even online. I played online for the first time last time and it was really 
 fun to partner up with someone. I love having infinite ammo (to do this you have to upgrade your 
 weapon to MAX, finish the game, and unlock infinite ammo for certain weapon in the bonus features 
 (I believe) and use points you receieved to do so) but, I found that unless you are playing on 
 a SUPER difficult level the infinite ammo thing becomes a bit of a problem because you're going 
 to be left with nothing to shoot. I was playing with someone who had unlimited machine gun ammo. 
 I had unlimited shotgun ammo and we breezed through.
  
  The unlimited ammo thing is MUCH more fun in solo mode because believe me you're going to need 
 it. RE 5 is something to be savored from opening to ending. But, going through it with limited 
 ammo is nothing to worry about as there is plenty of ammo (at least in the amateur mode)
  
  **SPOILER ALERT**BEGIN: speaking of ending! um, I'll just go ahead and say it: I don't like long, 
 drawn out, final boss fights! well, at least in certain games. THIS was kinda drawn out and a pain 
 in the butt to boot. Wesker just did not want to give up the ghost. Talk about determined! the 
 fight in the volcano was the culmination and it felt good to hit L1+R1 and let loose with the rocket 
 launchers. But, unless the ending gets better according to difficulty, it wasn't much of an ending! 
 according to Chris he sometimes wonders if it's all worth it but, a future without fear? yeah, 
 it's worth it and ROLL CREDITS!! I was like "huh?" okay maybe after the credits roll we'll get 
 like an epilogue or maybe a sneak peek as what's to come! nope, not on Amateur mode (working through 
 the difficulty setting one at a time) nothing at all!**SPOILER ALERT**END.
  
  
  I love this game. Right now I am playing through it again just to earn extra money to upgrade all 
 the weapons, relive the story, get treasure, and find all the BSAA tags throughout the game (no 
 luck so far only a couple) but, if you play with a partner some of them know where they are and 
 it no time at all you'll have unlocked a few more things after a couple of online sessions.
  
  I love the library mode. Want to know ALL about Resident Evil? just go to the library (for 
 those who haven't played you'll know what I mean in the future as you progress through the game) 
 also, call me weird but, I love the music in the organize/buy/ready screen. After hectic blasting 
 of zombies it's good to mellow out, buy/sell, upgrade, and organize. Good relaxing music!
  
  If you love Resident Evil you'll love RE 5. Though it is not as epic as RE 4 it is a ride worth 
 taking (and keeping!) not just once but many times solo, co-op online/offline. Is it worth the 
 $60.00 price tag? ABSOLUTELY! alot of games are not but, this game is EXCELLENT so I say if you 
 haven't gotten this game you need to do so because not only is it fear you can't forget it is also 
 a game you won't forget. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  20 angry and ready to kill you zombies are coming towards you. They are holding broken glasses and 
 big knives while you are trying to do something to avoid them. You are looking in your bag to find 
 something that can be usefull like a red key, ammo or an insect. The situation is getting serious. You 
 shot the nearest zombi in the head and the others in the legs to gain some valuable seconds and 
 run quickly to an unlocked door that is behind you. Then you see a big guy turning around in a corner 
 holing a huge chainshaw.
  
  The husbandry of your items was always the heart in ''resident evil'' games. Have you got enough 
 ammo to chalenge the crowd of the monsters? Can you find quickly enough the first aid kit in your 
 iventory? Those were always questions that you were suffering from.
  
  The story begins when Chris Redfield (star of Code Veronica) reaches Africa. The town that he visits 
 is full of genetic transformed people called Manjini and within a few minutes the player is surrounded 
 by many of them. Fortunately he isn't alone. With you is a netive agent that helps you. This is the 
 first game of the serie that imports the co-op mode. It is a wonderfull attempt because some fatal 
 battles are made to be played perfect with a partner. Moreover you can give each other items when 
 there is a necisity.
  
  The relation with your partner in the game is considered to be very important. You should keep 
 up with each other or you will get lost. The levels are designed in a limited way to keep you concentrated 
 to your objectives. Of course the co op game has got some dissadvantages. While you are playing alone 
 Sheva gives you clues about how you will keep going. This guidance does not exist when you play 
 with a friend so sometimes you are going to wonder about what are you going to do. Besides when 
 you split up things are getting extremely hard because you can find monsters that can kill you 
 with only one hit.
  
  But the game has also got good news for ''antisocial''. The Sheva's AI is perfect. SHe never get 
 lost and always helps you by killing a lot of enemies and by offering you items.
  
  In the previous games the actions were paused when you opened the inventory and had as much time 
 as you wanted to find something usefull. However in resi 5 that doesn' t happen and that can lead 
 you to desparate. Every attempt to open the inventory while in battle and searching for an item 
 is now fatal. Most times you will be killed before saying"this isn't right". If you want to survive 
 you will follow a different strategy. You will run back and so you will gain some time to do your 
 work. But sometimes when the room is limited this tactic can't be followed.
  
  As for the plot, it is good and not at all confusing. The african enviroment is a complete change. The 
 backgrounds are wonderfull especially in the sunny places. The new resi game left behind the lonely 
 guy in a fricky house. Now it prefers the big explosions and the amazing battles. The title is a 
 game that escape from the classic survival horror games and that makes it even better.
  
  Nevertheless the drawbacks are a lot! The game in the first levels is extremely good and always 
 offers you something new. But while you go on you will realize that the concepts are reapeted. For 
 examples some levels have the same objective. There is a button to push so you kill everyone to 
 reach there. Everything is similar. The last 1/4 of the game needs the use of the cover system. This 
 system is horrible. You can hide only behind specific objects. Another bad thing is that you can't 
 aim and move together so it isn't as shooter game as it seems. Furthermore the difficulty sometimes 
 (bosses) is extremely hard.
  
  All in all the resi 5 is in a very good way. The graphics are very good and the suspense vast. Probably 
 the best next-gen horror.
  
  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:8
  Sound:9
  Lasting appeal:8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: howardorr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 2:12 am PT
Review:  When "Resident Evil 4" appeared in 2004, first on the Gamecube and then on the PlayStation 2, it 
 was a miracle of reinvention for a series badly in need of one. The over-the-shoulder view replaced 
 the isometric backdrop of the previous games, but the new format retained enough of the old flavour 
 -and not to mention control scheme- to make it feel like a classic Resi game. "Resident Evil 5" 
 is simply an expertly-made, online-enabled and often lushly-presented continuation of this trend. 
 Although this really comes as no surprise, the series is starting to show its age, and Resi 5 should 
 be seen as an action game for Resi fans rather than the new, younger breed of game fans raised 
 on titles such as "Gears Of War" 1 and 2, and first-person shooters.
  
  Resi 5 is what you would expect from a top-tier game made by Capcom: good graphical presentation, 
 wonderful character animation in cut scenes, wooden characters, a story and dialogue that appears 
 to have been written on a napkin in a lunch break, predictable set-pieces and huge, ridiculous 
 boss fights. In short, a general air of competent, don't-wreck-a-selling-formaula malaise hangs 
 over the whole production.
  
  The much-vaunted graphical rehash is pretty impressive, although the backgrounds still retain the 
 pre-rendered vibe of classic Resident Evil games. The detail, right from dust, detail on brickwork, 
 lens flare and little bugs scurrying around the environments, to partner Sheva Alomar's bronzed 
 skin and Chris Redfield's rippling biceps is impressive. However, the very contrasty colour palette 
 remains a constant issue: dark colours constantly bleed into lighter colours, presumable in an 
 effort to replicate the blinding, enervating sunlight of Africa. There is also a nagging air of 
 inconsistency and laziness in some of the presentation, compared to other stunning games I have 
 played recently, such as "Killzone 2".
  
  One of the main selling points of the game is the presence of a partner. While this wrecks any 
 real sense of terror, it provides ample opportunity for an on- and offline co-op mode. Co-op is 
 tremendous fun, although the inability to trade weapons and ammo with online partners in real time 
 is irritating. Of course, this mode depends on the ability of the person you are playing with, 
 but sometimes you will uncover a new approach to tackling a certain section or even using weapons 
 in the game by watching your partner.
  
  However, the main issue with the game is simply the control scheme. While Resi 4 could get away 
 with continuing the ponderous and static turn-and-shoot model of the older games, Resi 5 is a next-gen 
 game. The generally good presentation only goes to highlight the absurdity of a supposedly tough, 
 muscle-bound character being forced to fire weapons while standing still, then turn, run away to 
 reload, and then repeat the process. The absence of any reliable dodge technique being mapped permanently 
 to a controller button and the still rather ponderous reactions of the controllable characters 
 only add to the irritation. 
  
  Perhaps the crux of the new game problem is this: as the game is no longer a survival horror game, 
 with a fully-armed and very capable sidekick at your side virtually the whole time taking much 
 of the horror out of the survival, the vulnerability that comes with this control scheme has disappeared. 
 The controls now seem slow rather than heightening any tension. 
  
  "Resident Evil 5" is a very good addition to the Resident Evil canon. It doesn't break any barriers 
 down to those who have always hated Resi games, or to those raised on the run-and-gun masterworks 
 of the last few years, such as the Gears Of War games. And it certainly doesn't add more than expected 
 to its illustrious predecessor. Capcom doesn't care, because they have sold millions of units of 
 the game already. But perhaps this should mark the end of the tank-like control scheme so famous 
 in Resi games. Running and shooting? Perhaps Chris, Sheva, et al. need to learn a little multitasking. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WTA2k5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The successor to the much exalted Resident Evil 4 has finally arrived on the new generation of 
 consoles. To put it bluntly, it falls flat of the greatness of its predecessor, but it still dishes 
 out more of the same great action.
  
  The story in RE5 isn't so good. You play as Chris Redfield as he ventures into Africa, alongside 
 his newfound partner Sheva Alomar to uncover the mysteries behind an infection similar to Las Plagas 
 from RE4. The plot has one really significant twist which fans of the series will enjoy, but aside 
 from some neat journal entries you can find during a play through, that's pretty much it.
  
  The gameplay still features the classic over-the-shoulder action revolutionized by RE4, but 
 at this point its feeling a bit archaic. Basically you'll run around until a swarm of enemies comes 
 your way, then you'll stop in your tracks and liberally dispense ammo that's given out only sparingly. 
 More freedom of movement would have worked very well, as stopping and popping doesn't really give 
 off the intense vibe that it did in RE4 because RE5 is simply not scary in any way.
  Obviously the big new draw in RE5 is the co-op. With another human buddy it's reasonably fun, but 
 when your using the AI, it can get frustrating, and it'll make you realize that the Resident Evil 
 series really isn't suited for co-op play.
  But all's not bad. The core gameplay is still pretty good, and boss fights are very fun. If a game 
 plays even slightly like Resident Evil 4, then the game is probably pretty damn fun.
  
  The graphics are excellent. Characters are superbly animated, and the graphical style is great. 
 The game has exceptional use of motion blur, and it's all around one of the prettiest games to 
 ever grace next-gen consoles.
  
  The sound department on the other hand isn't so hot. The game's voice overs must've been recorded 
 with terrible quality, and the music is pretty bad too. But the sound effects themselves are okay.
 
  
  The story mode in RE5 will run you a respectable 12-15 hours, and you will unlock the ever awesome 
 Mercenaries mode upon completion. It's also worth noting that Resident Evil games are pretty much 
 always worth a second playthrough, as plenty of new goodies will be dispensed, from new costumes, 
 to an unlimited ammo rocket launcher.
  
  It's really hard to lay a final judgment down on Resident Evil 5, because it is a solid game, but 
 the fact that it follows up a near-perfect game doesn't help it at all. Still, archaic design choices, 
 and minor issues aside Resident Evil 5 is a game well worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illness2006
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 20, 2009 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I just beat the game it took me a week to finish it so here is my review: first of all this is not 
 wow stunning game at all, nothing new in the game play but it is a mix from a vew other games (MG4, GOW, RESISTANCE) it 
 is a nice mix with sold combat system making it enjoyable although the story is classic (almost 
 no story) . the graphic is standard (could'v been a little bit better) , save mod & check points system 
 is perfect, i did play it on-line twice & loved it (except that if you are someone who is in chapter 
 5 for example & trying to play just for a while in on-line mod u to try it or to help a friend 
 you will lose everything u spend there) & haven't notes any lag or disconnection problems, so is 
 it the best in resident evil series? no but not the worst as well simply it is worth playing so 
 have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 8:04 am PT
Review:  I was skeptical of this game at first feeling like it was going to be outdated and a complete rehash 
 of 4. It's obvious a lot was taken from 4, which ended up not being bad, and if for some reason 
 you never played 4, it would even be a bother for you. The controls are clunky at first and does 
 seem outdated, but that's Resident Evil. The co-op is done to a perfection. Double-teaming, combos, 
 and sharing of resources is amazing and adds a completely new angle to the series. Graphically 
 this is a beautiful game. It's at the point now where some of these games are looking so good it 
 points out flaws in old HD tvs. The story is awesome to include a carry over from RE1 and even 
 Jill looks like her counter part (aside the blonde) in the game. One thing that came off to me 
 towards the end I couldn't help but notice some of the boss battles coming off a little like Metal 
 Gear's? Maybe it's just me. The replay value in this game is astounding. Mercenaries Mode could 
 be sold as a complete seperate game, and you know EA would do that if they had the chance, but 
 luckily this is Capcom. So many different unlockables, a flawless online experience, and even quite 
 possibly the best split screen action in a game ever, this game has gone the extra mile and revitalized 
 my faith in the franchise. The only cons I have is the game comes off a bit easy. Most of the battles 
 I fought seemed as if I had to do more than I actually did, then I'd look it up and just be like 
 "that's it?" I haven't played on professional yet so I'll see where that takes me. I rate this 
 possibly third in the series behind RE2 and RE1 Remake. Great Job Capcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar_Bladema
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 6:15 am PT
Review:  The Good --- Excellent Action Game; Some great boss fights; Tons of unlockables; A good conclusion 
 to the current Resident Evil Storyline; Co-Op is surprisingly fun; Game looks GREAT; Mercanaries 
 Mode makes a return
  
  The Bad --- On PS3 the areas look a little washed in daylight, but good in dark areas; some shabby 
 voice acting; is a b**** to find a stranger to join your game online; offline is not true drop-in, 
 drop-out; some graphical hic-ups
  
  The Ugly --- Is this really Resident Evil?; Dissapointing conclusion
  
  When Resident Evil 
 4 was released, I was hotly waiting in anticipation for Resident Evil 5. When it was first announced, 
 the idea of using sunlight as your enemy (it would blind you if you looked into it and might have 
 caused hallucinations) as well as hordes of enemies after you sounded fun. That was soon dumped 
 and a more action game presented itself. Then co-op was added, and I finally asked myself, "Is 
 this really Resident Evil?" The answer is a sounding, "Yes, but not what fans may expect."
  
  -Storyline: The Storyline (if you haven't been keeping up) is that Umbrella has fallen, and 
 the research has landed itself into the blackmarket, where B. O. Ws are bred and created for the 
 sole purpose of carrying out wars for one group or another. You play as either Chris Redfield or 
 Sheva Alomar of the BSAA as you hear of a major B. O. W deal going down in a region of Africa called 
 the Kijuju region. The storyline holds up considerably well, but most of the information has to 
 be read from documents earned by completing Chapters. Storyline Grade: A
  
  -Gameplay: The first thing people might notice is the game plays similar to Resident Evil 4, with 
 controls being the same and most context sensitive moments returning. The enemies are the same 
 if you played Resident Evil 4, and they may come at you with a larger assortment of weapons, but 
 they still dodge bullets, run at you until they get close where they start walking, and are occasional 
 with a larger, more powerful enemy with a fearful weapon (chainsaw, axe, etc) . The gameplay dumps 
 all its roots in favor of a more action orientated game. There is only about 2 puzzles the whole 
 game, and those are really straddling the fence of acceptable puzzles, the rest of the game is 
 basically blasting your way through with a partner (AI or Human) , and then running to the next 
 area. It may set some people off, and the pacing is a little fast. The latter half of the game 
 tries to be more action-orientated, with cover being implemented greatly and enemies that do not 
 look like their black bretheren, but basically zombies with guns. Their behavoir falls into this 
 catagory, while their appearance will fall into graphics. Their behavoir is great, they will provide 
 cover fire for the melee guys while they attempt to get close, and sometimes will gun butt you 
 and run. I really enjoyed the behavoir of these enemies, but their look just put me off.
  Gameplay Grade: A-
  
  Controls: What would great gameplay be without good controls. Fear not 
 fans of old Resident Evils, you still have to stand still while shooting, but instead of just forward 
 and back, turn left and turn right, you can now strafe your way around the battlefield. While it 
 is a good implement, I find myself not using it as much, and if you don't like it, there are 3 
 other control schemes to select from that will help you. Almost every button (minus R3 and L3) 
 have a purpose this time around, from helpful things like the action button, to the co-op action 
 button, to opening maps, to location your partners where-abouts. Accessing the inventory is easy 
 and in real time, and then you can assign items to your four face buttons for easy equipping. Speaking 
 of inventory, it is accessed in real time this time, and that coupled with having to stand still 
 and shoot helps to build up some tension, not alot, but some. The inventory is also limited to 
 9 squares per character, plus a cache box between chapters and when you die. The controls are great 
 and responsive, but having to stand still to shoot may put off some newcomers to the series.
  Controls Grade: A
  
  Graphics: The game looks B-E-A-utiful. The shadows are great, the characters 
 all look human like, and the lighting is phenominal. The only downsides on PS3 are the following: 
 Frame-rate drops (the first swarm after your first enemy, whenever you start co-op in 1-1, and 
 in other areas) , the brighter areas look a little washed out while the darker areas really look 
 colorful. If you do not like the current filter, then wait till you beat the game, you unlock other 
 filters to view your game in a new way. I also notice some aliasing, and it is hard to miss, except 
 when you get to Chapter 3 where it is easy to spot.
  Graphics Grade: A+
  
  Sound: What would eye candy be without ear candy to accompany its sweet taste, and this game has 
 a lot of good sound. The music is great, the gun sounds and death sounds are repeats from Resident 
 Evil 4, but I can get over that. The whirring of machines, the clicking of Licker claws on tilestone, 
 it all sounds so great. The music is good, but the actual sound effects is where it's at.
  Sound Grade: A+
  
  Singleplayer: The singleplayer is good, but the AI is questionable at times. 
 Its aim is 95% accurate (she sniped a moving Majini from the front of a high speed hovercraft) , 
 I mean I can suspend disbelief, but when your girl can shoot that accuratly from moving objects 
 and get headshots...
  She also manages to use healing items when you have only lost 50% of your health, and will waste 
 ammo if given the chance, but will somehow only try single fire with a Machine Gun. She does obey 
 your commands 99% of the time, except when she is in a tough spot, then she will do her own thing. 
 Her pathfinding is amazingly well done, and I almost never have to hold her hand every step of 
 the way.
  Singleplayer Grade: B+
  
  Multiplayer: In a short statement: Play Offline Co-Op. Online is not bad, I haven't done that one 
 as much, but it is hard when you are hosting for someone to join. They will join, but then THEY 
 have to wait until YOU get to a checkpoint or die, and checkpoints range from right around the 
 corner to "Oh GOD, when will it come!". Out of the 3 people I played with, only 1 had patience 
 to wait. In online you can't trade weapons either, which I can see why (helps to prevent unbalancing 
 and giving new players fully upgraded Jailbreakers) , but I like offline better, the ability to 
 communicate with someone right next to you and be able to trade them weapons is indispensable, 
 though only player one can upgrade the weapons, so player 2 has to dump them for a second while 
 player one modifies them. The split screen is also well done, I thought that due to the bright 
 dust ground, the splitscreens might have melded into each other so you wouldn't be able to tell 
 the dividing line. I was proven wrong, with a black bar on one side of each screen and a thin line 
 dividing each, you can easily tell where yours ends and theirs begins. Multiplayer is a blast, 
 and I would recommend that if you do not have a partner, find one.
  Multiplayer Grade: A
  
  Final Words: While this may be a good Resident Evil, I view it as equal to Resident Evil 4 
 (maybe even below, depends) , because with the exception of Co-Op and a few unlockables, not much 
 is new here. Mercanaries makes a return, is played the same, but instead of infinite hordes, they 
 are limited in numbers, and will be about 200 per map. There are only 4 characters, but each has 
 2 or 3 costumes to unlock with different loadouts, and 8 maps.
  The conclusion to the game made me wonder, "Is this how it ends? Man, what a weak note." Without 
 spoiling too much, the epic battle you thought was coming, didn't. Once you get to the final part 
 of the final battle, you basically run behind, shoot back, back off, run in front, shoot front, 
 run in back, wash, rinse, repeat. It got boring, and was easy to do without losing health at all. 
 I only wish the game had not ended on such an anti-climax.
  Overall: Somewhere between B+ and A-, maybe B++ or A-- ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojobubba
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  The game stays true to its recent predecessor in that it is an action oriented game and not a horror 
 title. There's nothing frightening about this game at all, just tense moments strung together. 
 I do miss that classic feel to RE games, but this is still definitely worth the time and effort, 
 and it answers tons of questions regarding how working with the virus even started and how it has 
 progressed ( I couldn't for the life of me understand why the series all of a sudden had Las Plagas 
 and how that fit into the series) .
  
  As for difficulty, it all depends on the player. This can be a piece of cake if you want, jumping 
 around in chapters (on amateur) and nabbing all the goodies you want, upgrading your weapons, and 
 maxing out your ammo. If you want a challenge, start on a more difficult setting and just try to 
 finish the game without skipping around. 
  
  It also gains a level of difficulty when it comes to 100% completion. On the first play through, 
 I could only spot on BSAA emblem, and I still haven't found all of the treasures. Maxing out weapons 
 will also prove challenging because you have to amass so much gold. It's not one of those quick 
 and easy feats.
  
  Graphically this game is beyond sound. There are beautiful scenes with rich, vibrant colors. RE4 
 lacked in terms of its drab colors throughout the game. This title will give your eyes a treat. 
 Even my wife commented on how much more pleasant it was for her to watch.
  
  The AI in Sheva is quite annoying, and this is the aspect that pulls down the score I decided to 
 give. She gets in the way, doesn't fire when she should, takes her time targeting, and chastises 
 you for not acting when she wants you to. She is a waste of ammo and time. If you can help it, 
 go co-op with someone, anyone, and perhaps they will make the experience more worth while. I had 
 to have my brother-in-law join in to make the last boss fight less frustrating.
  
  Overall, if you're a RE fan, you should play this title, if not for the horror, then at least for 
 the story. It's deep and rewarding. If you aren't an RE fan, play it anyway. It will keep you entertained 
 for hours, especially if you're one of those trophie hounds or 100% completion nuts. Try to complete 
 it all without spending less than 50 hours. I think that's even an understatement. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilcorey12691
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:01 pm PT
Review:  So I'm somewhere in the 4th Chapter/Act of the game (on the hardest difficulty) and the only words 
 I can muster when playing this are:
  
  Capcom cannot be serious.
  
  With 4 years to make a solid game, why am I looking at the same gameplay as RE4, with a worse storyline, 
 on a better console?
  
  Granted, the graphics are exceptional. But beyond that, why am I not looking at an entirely new, 
 rebooted version of Resident Evil? Why am I not looking at a different style of gameplay? Why is 
 this storyline horrible?
  
  If you've played RE4, then you have already seen what you need to see on RE5, except the constant 
 frustration of having Sheva die or do nothing but sit there waiting to get pounced on by Chris. 
 I'd recommend renting it first, or watching the cutscenes on youtube if you want to read up on 
 the storyline.
  
  I'm sure there is much fun in this game with playing with a friend, but single player is less than 
 adequate. Don't get me wrong, I am definitely enjoying myself while playing RE5, but you must understand 
 that I enjoy video games in general. The only reason I tolerate this game's lackluster storyline 
 is because I love the Resident Evil Series. If you were to remove the name "Chris Redfield" and 
 the title of the game, you would never know this is Resident Evil. Especially since there are no 
 zombies, no mention of the t/g-virus (thus far) and no sign of anything relevant to the series. 
 
  
  It's a solid action-adventure game that will definitely have you engrossed for hours, but it is 
 by no means a Resident Evil game. There is no suspense, the tension is minimal, and the gameplay 
 is exactly the same as RE4.
  
  (However I am still happy with my purchase only because I want to build up my brother's PS3 collection)
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: An0nymousX
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 has to be the best co-op game i have played since i have owned my PS3... It doesnt 
 take that long of a time to learn its mechanics and its great!. Sheva brings spice and life to 
 the game and chris is tight as well. I have seen many websites saying that RE4 outshines RE5 and 
 honestly i think its bull!!!. I had RE4 i didnt even play it 10mins before i took it out just wasnt 
 as exciting as RE5. Even though playing with a partner may take a bit of suspence out of the game 
 the game still has its points which make you quiver thinking what your gonna do next to beat this 
 boss or this horde of zombies. It adds a feel of a determination to keep you and your partner alive 
 and just because your sharing the experience with somebody doesnt mean the isolation and terror 
 still cant be there....... Rating 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hyphysince86
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:32 am PT
Review:   This game is the one, what I like about it is when I died 
 for the first time it showed the infected brother's mobbing me so that's when i came back and started 
 capping those fools. Everything about the game is cool the only problem I have with it is that 
 there is no I repeat no!!!!!!!! running and shooting just run then shoot what's up with that????? 
 but there's no worries the graphics, gameplay, and story helps. Also the intence battles not just 
 boss battles but also the one's when there's like a billion guys thaty you have to turn in to swiss 
 cheese but that's what it's all about though. Also the new character that RE5 dropped on us Ms. Sheva 
 Alomar and man is she H. O. T but back to the game also the enemies is this latest installment to 
 the series are alot more tougher, faster, kinda smart but can still put up a hell of a fight. For 
 and example the giant with the infected zit and the exacutioner those m. f. where...... Well it 
 it take's a while to kill them and when you do that's when the weapon upgrade begins and the real 
 fun is unleashed Yeah!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slibenz
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 8:11 am PT
Review:  Considering the anticipation that I have had for this game, I must say it is everything that I 
 expected and more. I will admit, the co-op AI, if playing by yourself can be frustrating at times. 
 That is why I prefer either split-screen co-op with a friend, or online. This game has so much 
 to offer once you've completed the campaign. Not to mention, there are many difficulties in which 
 to test your skill. Unlocking Mercenaries is incredibly fun as well. Considering all of the stages 
 you can unlock, it never gets dull or boring. Of course, many complain of not being able to run 
 and shoot, but improvements have been made. Unlike RE4, you don't have to pause the action to swap 
 weapons... just use your d-pad. These infected zombies don't wait around. They want flesh and brains! 
 That is why I give this game a very high review, and recommend it to all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1noteshort
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 19, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  *Note, due to that I do not have fast internet, I can not review the portion of the Online Co-op. 
 See Gamespot's review for detailed information on that*
  
  Where should I start? First of all, fans of Resident Evil 4 will be right at home. In fact, besides 
 a new coat of paint and some other welcomed addtions, this is Resident Evil 4. Fans of the past 
 Resident Evil games might not be at home as much. Ammo is sometimes hard to come by but much more 
 common than any past Resident Evil game. It is harder to come by than RE4, but about the same. 
 Fans and newbies to the series will have a delightful and adrenaline pumped adventure ahead of 
 them. But for fans of face paced action games, you might be a little let down. This isnt your run 
 and gun kind of game. It is more of a stop, aim, and then gun game. In today's game market, this 
 really needs to go. I like the idea of trying to keep some of the old Resident Evil alive, but 
 for gameplay sake, slash it. There are some minor puzzles and one of them can be pretty annoying 
 towards about half way to a little over half. 
  
  Now to talk about the biggest addition, Coop. Your new partner, Sheva, can really hold her own 
 and you dont have to worry about baby sitting. She is a very smart AI controlled counter part. 
 She does have her moments though. You might just want to use her as just a pack rat sometimes and 
 be careful on how much ammo you give her. She will blow through it very fast so if you do give 
 her ammo, set her on Cover and not Attack unless you have a walking armory of ammo with you. Having 
 a partner is great but it takes away of the feel of "fear" you might of had knowing you were all 
 alone against all odds. 
  
  If you were like me, you probably crapped yourself when the dogs busted through the window in RE1. 
 Sadly, there are very few of those moments in RE5. Storywise, RE5 is a little hard to follow. I 
 knew some from watching trailers but other than that, you really have no idea what the hell is 
 going on until about half way and even then you still asking yourself some questions. I'm a die-hard 
 Resident Evil guy and that helped me get the story but your avg joe, might have a tad of trouble 
 piecing together the puzzle. In order not to give away any major plot or story, I am just going 
 to say that the final two boss fights were the most fun (and flustration) I've had in a game for 
 awhile. Metal Gear Solid 4 still wins for best final boss fight. This is a great game with very 
 good graphics. There are times it felt like I was watching a movie and any game that does that, 
 is doing alot of things right.
  
  The collectors edtion isnt worth the money unless you are a DIE-HARD fan. You will not need the 
 guide either but unless you are a DIE-HARD fan, they're is a collectors edtion guide. They are 
 nice to have but that's an extra $50 you could spend on another game or in today's money crisis, 
 could be used for important life needs. I bought both and from what's in them, I was slightly disapointed. 
 The Tri-Cell bag is kind of small and not really made to last. The BSAA patch is nice and I'm trying 
 to get another patch for my jacket. The Chris Redfield figure looks more like Seth Green. The steel 
 book case is nice but the bonus disk isnt really worth it (but IS intresting) and should have been 
 a preorder bonus rather than a collectors edtion disk. The last piece of bonus material in the 
 collectors edtion is a pendent of Africa. Overall, for $90 bucks, not worth it, go for the standard 
 edtion. The collectors guide, for an addtional $10 for the hard cover and 16 addtional pages, you 
 be the judge.
  
  Overall, Resident Evil 5 is a great game and should be played by many gamers. If you can look past 
 the change of pace and minor things that are of the past, you will really enjoy this game.
  
  Score 9.0 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:45 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 basically reinvented the series and was an amazing game which was considered one 
 of the best so how does Resident Evil 5 compare.
  
  Story
  
  Well the story starts where Chris Redfield meets Sheva Almor in Africa and sees the people are 
 attacking strangly like the Ganados from Resident Evil 4. They try to track down a man named Irving 
 for clues but he keeps escaping from them. They need to track him down for answers. Also during 
 certain cut scenes Chris has flashbacks of Jill and Wesker. Wesker has decided to use Urboros as 
 a sample working with Tricell alongside Excella. So its up to Chris and Sheva to stop Wesker for 
 spreading it across the world. The story is very well told.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well it plays just like Resident Evil 4 in terms of the controls and it doesn't work to bad at 
 all. You have nine slots for each character to fill up with weapons and you have a spare inventory 
 where you can store items which you don't want to use. So its a nice idea which I think is great 
 and unlike its predesscors when your changing items the action is still continuing so either find 
 a safe place or you need to be quick to find that particular item. Also there is no shooting while 
 running which I find okay anyway. Also if you quit the game it automatically saves it for you and 
 you get to keep the items and money you had at the time and you can also replay certain chapters 
 just to either get more money to buy on firepower or Aid Sprays. What is good it doesn't mater 
 how big the item is it will fit into one slot so if you want to use a Rocket Launcher it won't 
 take up 3 or 4 spaces but just one which works well.
  
  For the first time there is co - op gameplay in Resident Evil 5 which I think is a nice addition 
 to the franchise because it gives you the chance to work together because sometimes playing solo 
 can be a big problem for some parts. You can't give them your weapons though. It can be played 
 in split screen or online and it works very nicely. It tells you online how good a players connection 
 is so if you want to join just give them a little time to decide if you wan them to play with you. 
 The bosses look impressive but some don't even need to be taken out with a normal weapon so you 
 don't have to waste to much ammunition on some. Also some enemies in the game can be tough later 
 on to defeat if you don't have the right equipment. Overall the gameplay is virtually the same 
 as Resident Evil 4 but with co - op gameplay added
  
  
  Sound and Graphics 
  
  Well the graphics are very impressive it looks brilliant easily one of the best games ever espically 
 the cut scenes and even the gameplay. The sound is also brilliant there are parts when you know 
 an enemy is waiting because music plays. Sometimes enemies will surprise you creating that tense 
 music where there's loads of them in the game.
  
  Lastability
  
  The main game should last you about 10 to 15 hours but there is plenty to keep players occupied 
 like a Mercarnies mode and a Vs Mode to. Also if yopu want you can just replay through the game 
 again on a higher difficulty. So overall it should keep you busy for a while.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  The game is awesome it has epic cut scenes and seems to only get better 
 as you progress through the game. I like the idea of co - op gameplay in split screen and online. 
 It plays just like Resident Evil 4 at time which is a good thing. Sheva can be a pain in single 
 player because she can go through alot of ammo and sometimes replaying chapters can be a bit of 
 a pain just to get enough ammo or money for future weapons but overall this is a game thats worth 
 getting. While not as good as its predesscor its just as fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coa17ch
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 5:50 am PT
Review:  I was a little skeptical when I first heard they were making another Resident Evil. I have played 
 all of them starting on the original Playstation, Playstation 2 and Dreamcast. They were pretty 
 good so I figured I would give this one a chance. Boy was I suprised. The graphics are great. The 
 gameplay is really good. The best part I believe is the online gameplay. Having said that, there 
 is a downfall to that. If you are trying to play through and someone joins your game, they can 
 actually make things worse for you. There are only 2 real things that I find wrong with this game. 
 The first being the game controls. If you can get used to the controls, its not to bad. Other than 
 that, the single player AI is pretty bad. Your companion in this game is Sheva Alomar. While she's 
 not bad to have around if you need healing, she is not too good when it comes helping to clear 
 out the bad guys. Worse yet, she tends to wander off so you have to keep calling her back. With 
 the good and the bad, I have to say this has to be the most addictive Resident Evils I have had 
 the pleasure of playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pokefan810
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  *spoiler*
  
  I've been a fan of Resident Evil since the first game. I've been following the story a lot. I like 
 how every character grew in every game created and how the plot thickens every after game.
  
  This game is a lot like Resident Evil 5 but with more action in it. I like action but being 
 a Resident Evil game, i think it should have more horror flicks in it though. I kinda miss the 
 times where you need to solve stuff in order to get to the next area. It makes my brain work even 
 just for a while. In this game, you just get to kill zombies as much as you can. You only get to 
 solve only one kind of puzzle, the light thingy. Maybe this whole more action thingy is because 
 of what they say. "This game is the beginning of the end"
  
  The characters are great but i do not like the designs. Chris was transformed to a mini hulk. His 
 biceps are as huge as his thighs. It looks weird. And what they've done in Jill's design is undesirable. 
 We all know that Jill's trademark is her short brunette hair. They made it longer. Well, i can 
 understand that though, no one has hair that never grew long. But i think it was best if they retained 
 her short hair. Sheva was a new great character with a great background awaiting to be discovered. 
 But the plot never really has something for her. It's all about Chris.
  
  The graphics are okay, it's more realistic alright. The sounds are great too. They hired great 
 voice actors and actresses and motion actors too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gigas_Yuu
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:26 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 so far has nothing to show for the amount of hype it has gotten. 
  
  With the inclusion of multiplayer ( a good thing ) it is surprising that the system which you heal 
 your partner is annoying to use, especially during battle. Luckily the system will become second 
 nature later on, but the game does a poor job of integrating tutorials with live game play.
  
  After the hordes of zombies stop chasing you the horrible navigation controls will go after 
 you next. It seems that Chris Redfield is an elite agent who can only run in straight lines and 
 is physically retarded of being able to cut 90 degree angles like any athletic agent should. (Especially 
 considering what we saw in the trailer, which could be classified as false advertising)
  
  This normally is not bothersome. How many survival horror heroes can do this? A soldier cannot 
 do it in the latest installment of Silent Hill. So why does Chris Redfield get the red flag? 
 
  
  Unfortunately it is because Resident Evil 5 has betrayed its roots and is now primarily an action 
 game with zombies instead of a horror game with zombies. A Brown Action Game With Zombies.
  The graphics in this game are an easy seven point five at best, with a constant spamming of dull 
 colors that has fed the "Everything looks better in gray/brown with shiny lights" generation. 
 
  Of course Resident Evil is not supposed to be colorful, however the past games styling such as 
 the remakes for the Gamecube and Resident Evil 4 have great coloring styles that match the feel 
 of the game and create a personal space of fear.
  
  The point of making bad controls is to balance out the elements that would make a game non scary. 
 
  If the previous Resident Evils played like Gears of War the fear factor would be gone.
  It is because of the controls that one could feel like a normal, non-super soldier, frail and uncoordinated 
 in fear against a horde of countless monsters or in this case zombies, but in this unfortunate 
 case the game is not scary, and it's not even supposed to be.
  
  It's an action game.
  
  Essentially "24" with zombies and bad controls.
  
  Where is the fun in that?
  
  Problem: 
 Sluggish controls should only be in scary games. Quick/Adaptive controls for action games. If the 
 game doesn't realize its own identity, then it should not tarnish a franchise with four excellent 
 games in it already. Graphics are lackluster.
  
  7.5- Play the demo.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sither11
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:45 pm PT
Review:  well guys the time has come for another great game to be thrown out into the flooding pool called 
 the video game market. You ask how is it? i will tell you.
  
  i will first say the game follows the role model of re4 the best 3rd person action game ever, and 
 it follows that example with digninty and respect in terms of gameplay. but lacks many things witch 
 in my mind some one who has playin all the re games like me will find this utterling disapointed. 
 As this game has lost the horror atmoshpere surronding it and just turned it into a massive action 
 game. alot of little things can be nick picked out of this game and complained about to first start 
 off. THIS GAME IS TO SI-FI, THE STORY IS THE WORST IVE SEEN IN A RE GAME, AND SOME WEAPONS ARE 
 A LET DOWN. preety much simple as that to sum it all up i give this game a.....
  
  VALUE of $40 out of 60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oddsharks
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is a solid action game that will give any gamer there zombie fix. The games story 
 is a continuation of the series and will be familiar and welcomed to old fans. The story follows 
 Chris and Sheva two BSSA agents who are investigating bio-terrorism in Africa. Their investigation 
 leads them to, off course, zombies. New-comers should not be too confused and will make it through 
 the story just fine. The game play mechanics are very similar to Resident Evil 4, and most survival 
 horror games. However, RE5 relies heavily on the partner and co-op aspect of the game. You can 
 play the game alone and you're A. I partner will not be a hindrance. The A. I throughout is solid. 
 Zombies are smart but still zombies. The boss fights are great and are definitely the best part 
 of the game. The stop and shoot mechanic works fine and is a blast to play. The setting is very 
 well done in the beginning, the first time you encounter a large amount of zombies you definitely 
 get that Night of the Living Dead feeling.
  However, I do have some complaints that ultimately make this game a rent first. RE5 is short, not 
 terribly short but not worth the full sixty dollars. This is also not a game for hardcore survival 
 horror fans, there are little to no scares to be found in this game. This was severely disappointing 
 giving the fact that the series has such a history for scares. The settings do get bland after 
 awhile and there is a part with a hidden temple that seems directly taken from Uncharted: Drakes 
 Fortune. The most disappointing thing was zombies with guns. Towards the end of the game the zombies 
 will wield AK47's.
  Resident Evil 5 is a good game; however some details ultimately make it a rent first. The game 
 is short and is a relative breeze on normal. However, it provides a lot of entertainment and is 
 worth a play through. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HershalCrusto
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:48 pm PT
Review:  I have to start out by saying I had great expectations of this game and it didn't quite meet them. 
 That being said I still enjoyed it more than most other games. I finished the story mode last night 
 and played a little bit of the mercenaries mode and have to say all in all both modes are done 
 very well.
  
  The story mode seemed to be a little bit shorter than previous versions and therefore didn't get 
 a good enough chance to build up before the conclusion. I didn't find myself as attached to what 
 was going on as I did in RE 4, which was a disappointment. Once again the story was much better 
 than most games, just not quite as good as what I have come to expect out of Resident Evil.
  
  The gameplay is excellent, really enjoyed it, it definitely has its tense moments when you 
 are surrounded by the infected. The no run and shoot doesn't bother me in RE because I think it 
 actually adds tension and challenge to the gameplay. The boss battles are awesome, possibly as 
 good as I've seen before and they happen quite frequently throughout the game. One pitfall to the 
 gameplay there wasn't one thing that happened that made me jump, which was too bad. It may have 
 to do with having a partner or maybe that you're in the light more often, but you just don't get 
 any scares in RE 5. The cover system is pretty bad too, they might have been better to just leave 
 that out. I have to say I love co-op in games but for some reason, I would rather see RE be a solo 
 deal (makes it more survival horror) . All in all gameplay was a lot of fun though.
  
  The graphics and sound are phenominal, everything looks great and the music and sound effects are 
 very solid too.
  
  This game definitely has a lot of replay value which makes it a good purchase. You can carry over 
 your weapons from one campaign to the next, the mercenaries mode is fun, so it is definitely a 
 game that should last.
  
  In conclusion RE 5 didn't meet all my expectations, but I also may have set them too high. If they 
 just added a couple scares and a longer/better story, I would have been tempted to give it a 10. 
 But it does have great gameplay, decent story, great graphics and sound, and very good replay value 
 so I gave it a 9/10. 
  
  One last note if you don't like the stand still and shoot, don't play RE. I love games like Gears, 
 COD, stuff like that when you can run and shoot, but part of what makes RE different is the gameplay 
 style and I would be choked if they made it just like every other game, most gamers don't want 
 all games to be the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  Games have come a long way since Resident Evil 4. While that survival horror title pioneered the 
 over-the-shoulder third-person shooter view, it also contained many other feats of design genius 
 that have influenced videogames in the meantime, like the potential scale of set pieces, pacing 
 of the action, smart use of Quick-Time Events and instigating variety without detracting from the 
 series' identity. Resident Evil 5 extends each of these fundamentals in neartribute act fashion, 
 but there are differences, primarily the all-new co-op play and  gulp  cover system (we'll get 
 to that) . Aside from these 'new' ideas and a few others, however, we have to stress that the leap 
 between Resi 4 and 5 isn't nearly comparable to the leap between Code: Veronica and 4, but this, 
 of course, was to be expected. In the series' timeline, Resident Evil 5 takes place not so long 
 after Resident Evil 4. You're following Chris Redfield again (though he looks nothing like his 
 previous incarnations) , now an agent with a group called the BSAA, as well as companion and fellow 
 Umbrella-hater Sheva Alomar. Chris is pissed with Albert Wesker, who he had presumed dead after 
 a certain significant event in his past. Basically, Chris finds out he's still around about halfway 
 through the game, and sets off to kill him. We can't reveal much more without treading into references 
 to old Resident Evil titles, which, if you're a fan, is one of the coolest aspects of the new game 
 in the series. There's not much more you need to know. The story partners you with Sheva from the 
 start, and the narrative of the game slowly burns from there. As you can imagine, the idea of teaming 
 up with another character is a notable departure for a series that has rarely touched upon co-op 
 play (Outbreak and the fortunately GameCube-exclusive Zero are the exceptions) , but really, try 
 not to see it as a bad thing. You play as Chris, but Sheva is far more than a background character. 
 She's controlled via splitscreen if you choose to make this a wholly social experience, but for 
 the majority of players, there's a powerful AI at work to compensate for the players who prefer 
 to take it solo.
  
  Sheva's rarely a burden. From the start, it becomes clear that she's a little less conservative 
 with ammo than you, a little too grab-happy with items dropped by enemies and found in crates, 
 but generally a smart ally. Much of the fun in Resident Evil 5 is in testing her. You give her 
 bigger weapons, hand her more health items and summon her to perform important tasks, as you cotton 
 on to how helpful she really is. By the end of the game, she practically became our aide, resuscitating 
 Chris on the brink of death and generally counteracting our mistakes whenever we ran, guns blazing, 
 into a ten-zombie skirmish. She's not without flaws, though. Occasionally, Sheva strays into the 
 midst of battle without any justification, or she runs around aimlessly without firing; actually, 
 you'll probably find that she's a bit inconsistent in general, but considering you spend 13 hours 
 relying on this piece of AI, she's pretty well designed. When you reflect on the amount of times 
 she saves Chris in battle, it really is a wonder we ever got along in Resi 4 without her. Besides, 
 Sheva is important for reasons other than healing you. Her extra firepower has increased the amount 
 of enemies you can tackle at once, and indeed the types of enemies you encounter in Resident Evil 
 5. While she disappointingly holds back with weapons like grenades and grenade launchers, generally 
 she's handy with rifles, pistols and machine guns. The important advantage of her presence is the 
 way she's enhanced Capcom's ambition. Enemy encounters are much more populated, grander and set 
 in vaster surroundings. On the occasions that you or Sheva have to depart from one another, usually 
 to hit a switch in the distance or check something out, enemies tend to swarm in on both characters, 
 which is a totally different dynamic to looking after the useless Ashley Graham in Resi 4. Though 
 Sheva's AI is often erratic, the alternative  going it alone  isn't at all desirable. In this 
 sense, Capcom has succeeded in introducing such an audacious new feature; despite the fact she 
 will piss everyone off at one point or another. The mean product of Sheva Alomar is a smart, compelling 
 companion that clearly is an important part of your journey. You also manage her inventory in real-time, 
 alongside Chris's, with a tap of the T button (see the 'Gimme an egg!' boxout) , but the important 
 thing to note is that she isn't just a background character, or a piece of scenery. You need her 
 to live, and the feeling is entirely mutual.
  
  The enemy types are a little more varied than Resident Evil 4, but we didn't find anything quite 
 as scary as those nasty Stalker chaps from the last game. Instead, many of the scares in Resi 5 
 come from overwhelming you with swelling numbers of identical, freaky enemies. The 'zombies' in 
 Resident Evil 5, if we're even going to call them that any more due to their ridiculously smart 
 behaviour, are supremely multicultural, to the point where it's quite obscure. Zombies of all shapes 
 and sizes are here, almost as a response to the negative reaction towards that E3 2007 trailer; 
 whether it is or it isn't, though, the same zombie models recur again and again in Resi 5. It doesn't 
 matter too much, we suppose, but they're not exactly repeating themselves every five hours  the 
 same guy could legitimately be fighting you twice in the same encounter, which could be a problem 
 for people expecting some kind of bodily variety from their attacking foes. Outside of this, though, 
 there are plenty of cool enemies to face off against. The type of foes you meet alters as the game 
 marches on, to reflect the ever-changing surroundings. Chris and Sheva begin in those sinister 
 villages we saw in the trailers, seeing off infected civilians, but by the middle and later chapters, 
 you're combating army zombies (yup, really  they have guns) and a certain enemy from Resident 
 Evil 2 that you'll likely squeal at if you're a long-term fan. Like so many revelations in Resident 
 Evil 5, however, this is something well worth discovering for yourself. You somehow feel like you're 
 interacting with them more than in the fourth instalment, due to the prevalence of physical violence 
 in the game. Yes, Leon performed roundhouse kicks in Resident Evil 4, but Chris is a little more 
 hands-on in this, performing straight punches, uppercuts and defensive fist moves, depending on 
 the situation or part of the zombie that you first hit with a bullet. Chris and Sheva can even 
 combo fighting moves, culminating in an epic three-move punch-flip kickbackslap from Chris that 
 will shatter the skulls of infected assailants. There's no more satisfying way to kill an enemy 
 in a game. For visual spectacle, there are few titles that match up to Resident Evil 5 in scale, 
 detail or animation. Despite the fact it seems to have taken four years to develop, it's somehow 
 so very far ahead of its time. Boss fights tend to be massive in Resident Evil 5 and, given that 
 the game uses Capcom's glorious engine from Devil May Cry 4 and Lost Planet (think the 360 version 
 rather than the insulting PS3 port) , the animation on these larger beasts is almost believable. 
 A neat motion-blur effect follows practically every physical action, too. Technologically speaking, 
 Resident Evil 5 is definitely one of the PS3's best-looking titles yet, although it is let down 
 a bit by the limited artistic direction of the game's environments.
  
  Resident Evil 5 isn't lazily designed, don't get us wrong, but the same washedout colour palette 
 dogs the experience throughout. The first chapter is probably the best looking, with dusty streets 
 and killer sunlight pouring through every crack and open window. Environments in this area are 
 cluttered in quite a specific way, similar to the design of the Middle East level in Metal Gear 
 Solid  it's that 'civilised society gone wrong' atmosphere that makes the early hours the main 
 highlight of the entire experience. Later levels don't provide anything that's as interesting, 
 taking you across an oilrig, into an army base and across some Indiana Jones-esque, puzzle-heavy 
 ruins. The evil isn't really residential any more. None of these locales are as provocative as 
 the village, church, castle or island from the fourth game, but they're agreeable enough, if not 
 really that memorable. Unfortunately, the combination of loaded action sequences and pedestrian 
 environments result in a relatively scare-free experience. There are moments of horror  a certain 
 fan-favourite enemy jumped at us through a sheet of glass, causing us to yell the words 'holy **** 
 in the middle of a working office  but there are no relentlessly oppressive sound effects to keep 
 you on your toes, like the Police Station from Resi 2. Instead, the soundtrack matches the pace 
 and style of the action, swapping out freaky atmospherics for pumping beats and fastpaced boss 
 music. This game edges the series closer to the action-adventure genre than ever, with design choices 
 like this. Resident Evil 4 was more than a little action-oriented, certainly, but the idea that 
 you have two well-armed characters battling hordes of zombies, rather than one, means that the 
 hallmarks of a great action game are unmistakable. Resi 5 tries to stick to its roots in inconsequential 
 ways, like crowbarring in a random stairbased puzzle or a similar obstacle that's early Resi in 
 nature, but by that point you've adjusted to Resident Evil 5 as the war on zombie terror. Trying 
 to double back on itself, the pace of the game just breaks down and results in a few middling chapters 
 that'll dull everyone out.
  
  The puzzles in Resi 5 are just nothing special. We think newcomers to the franchise will even miss 
 the point of them, given that they'll be used to upgrading their shotguns and using a heavy machine 
 gun against a bearded troll at that point. The other flaw that'll diminish some players' experience 
 will be the controls. Now, this is quite a subjective shortcoming, judging by the reaction to the 
 demo of the game on PSN, but none of Resi 5's four default control schemes feel right. You still 
 have to stop and shoot. This is where the fanbase will divide right down the middle: some will 
 argue that Resident Evil has always been about struggling with the controls in the midst of heightening 
 odds, but others are going to hate the fact that the game adheres so strictly to this tradition. 
 Many will cite Dead Space as a prime example of modern survival horror, with the ability to move 
 and shoot like a third-person action game, and they may well be right. The fact is, though, Resident 
 Evil 5 has been designed around this static control scheme; the difficulty of the game is offset 
 well against the everlasting struggle of using two buttons to shoot, or swing Chris's knife. Whether 
 this is a genuine issue will really depend on the players, but there's no doubt that the controls 
 border between irritation and welcome tension on many occasions. Also, despite Resident Evil 5's 
 insistence on maintaining traditional controls, the game experiments with a number of new ideas 
 that only ever clash with established series trademarks. We'll deem the co-op mechanic an overall 
 success, yes, but equipping zombies with guns is definitely a step too far. Playing Resident Evil 
 5 in the classic way then becomes too much of a hassle, forcing you to embrace the game's cover 
 system. Yes, it's well done, but we're disillusioned that Capcom has incorporated something with 
 the pungent stench of Gears Of War, when we always had it pegged as a company that didn't necessarily 
 jump on the bandwagon. Sadly, though, like The Bourne Conspiracy, Uncharted, Army Of Two and whatever 
 else decided that it was the only way to make a third-person action game this generation, Resident 
 Evil has now fully adopted the cover system. Sometimes, when you're popping out from behind a crate 
 and pummelling a rocket launcherbearing zombie with acid rounds, it's odd to think that this was 
 once a series about struggling in a corner on critical health, while being savaged by killer crows.
 
  
  None of this contextual absurdity emerges until later on, though, so it'd be unfair to suggest 
 that the entire game is burdened by this design-related identity crisis. Resident Evil 5 can actually 
 be scary. Sometimes, ammo is scarce, to the point where you have to forgo Sheva's needs and be 
 selfish just to progress. Although we found these occasions quite rare on Normal mode, they can 
 be the perfect bookend to a particularly brutal onslaught, or a tense boss fight that you haven't 
 yet figured out. We disagree with Resi 5 in some regards, but there's no denying that it's absolutely 
 thrilling at times. Having a companion assist as you slay sea monsters, big sludgeballs of penis-like 
 tentacles and giant spiders is quite an inspired idea. If the series undergoes a bit of a transformation 
 in subsequent years, we hope Capcom recognises the merits of its risky new instalment  Resident 
 Evil 5's co-op play, boss battles and technical achievements are all worthy of immense respect. 
 Fundamentally, it's not as good as Resident Evil 4. This has nothing to do with the huge leap that 
 its predecessor made, since that game was already ahead of its time and the same transition was 
 never going to happen with Resi 5. In basic terms, though, it isn't as well paced, as varied or 
 quite as interesting to look at. Resident Evil 5 is a big ball of its own and other people's ideas 
 and, while we enjoyed it for the most part, there are issues with controls and design that we can't 
 fail to notice. Shinji Mikami was roped in during Resident Evil 4's development to pull the series 
 out of, what was interpreted at the time as a creatively stifled corner. Perhaps, for the sixth 
 game, it wouldn't hurt to give the talented creator a call when the series demands a new reinvention. 
 
  
  Written by Jordan Mason - Gamereviews2008 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ralthor125
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 18, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  First thing I should state is this is the very first Resident Evil game I've ever played. This 
 is not a review based on anything other than my opinion of the game play.
  
  The story was interesting, but not really all that involving for me. The graphics are great, no 
 getting around that. There is absolutly nothing wrong with the way the game looks or sounds.
  
  My problem with the game is the control. It is by far the worst control of any game I've ever 
 played. Most of your shooter style games have a decent control. One button to melee, one to shoot, 
 one to reload... the basics. Why do i have to constantly hold L1 which freezes me in that spot to 
 aim and then R1 to fire? Why not just have the gun equiped and ready like it shows him doing in 
 the cut scenes where he is MOVING!!? You're stiff legged in one spot without the ability to dodge 
 or MOVE out of the way without releasing the L1 (or L2 if your using the knief) . The gun would 
 make a decent Melee weapon as well, but you can't use it for that if you run out of ammo... no you 
 have to switch weapons or go to the knief... both of which take just time that you may not have. 
 And am I missing something? How the heck do you reload? It's not a very nice control design.
  
  Well that is my rant on this game. For those of you who have never played any of the RE games, 
 be prepared for a very different control style. It will drive you insane for a while, and you will 
 have to make adjustments to combat style that just won't seem natural. Play it on easy mode until 
 you get use to the control... otherwise pad your controller so that when you throw it against the 
 wall in frustration, it will HOPEFULLY not break.
  
  Ralthor125 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lay5354
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 1:28 am PT
Review:  Ever since playing the original Resident Evil, watching Degeneration, the focus of the genre has 
 been pushed towards having a mutual and dependable relationship with your partner. Sheva in this 
 case. It is about time that they allowed CO-OP mode, which was made famous by GEARS of WAR for 
 first person shooters I must say. It takes a lot of time and effort to make a game like this and 
 it is relatively reasonable that they made it the best given the time and resource. What the game 
 lacks is the capability of playing through the whole game without Sheva. Sheva should be a major 
 added bonus to play with. I know i'm generalizing, but majority of the zombie loving, thriller 
 seeking gamers most likely play this game alone. Having to walk around with and deal with an AI 
 you don't give crap about really blows... much like a repeat of how you must protect the girl in 
 RES 4.... but in this case... you need to depend on her. I have yet to play this game single player, 
 but I can imagine the agony and the annoyance of playing it alone. Before you judge this game, 
 do try the coop mode with a friend, not just random guy online and you might find yourself loving 
 this game a lot more. As for not being able to give away weapons.... come on people, buy your on 
 guns. Resident Evil, i believe will emerge as the new COOP horror. First of its kind, so cut it 
 some slack. If you have no friends to play this game with, you don't have the right to judge this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karimcheese
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:01 pm PT
Review:  In simple terms, if you love RE 4 (like most people who have played the game) , then there is no 
 reason not to check RE5. This title marks the first time a RE game has been released on multiple 
 platforms at launch, and both owners of the PS3 and 360 owe it to themselves to play this game 
 in some form or another. The character models are great, level design is refreshing, and the gameplay 
 is just as solid as its predecessor. It's obvious that Capcom didn't do much to improve the gameplay 
 other than a few combo techniques and the addition of a partner which you can have as an AI or 
 play with a friend. Many people complain that the AI partner isn't very helpful but I've found 
 it quite useful in certain situations so I guess it depends on the difficulty at which one plays 
 the game. I also haven't played the multiplayer in great depth but it isn't the highlight of the 
 game, that much I can say for certain. The Resident Evil games have come a long way since the original, 
 which placed alot of emphasis on quick scares, horrible camera angles, and dark environments. RE 
 5 has evolved into more of an action/adventure title than your typical survival horror, but that 
 isn't to say that the tension isn't still there. You will find yourself creeped out at times, but 
 you will also have one hell of a story to follow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jigalooo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 17, 2009 6:42 pm PT
Review:  I first off want to say this game is ridiculously overpriced. $70 for game. $110 for collectors 
 edition. 
  
  But that is one of the only things wrong with this.
  
  Other flaws? Sheva AI is really stupid. I have only played for about 2 hours, and she is always 
 shooting me in the back, relentlessly, when I'm knifing an enemy , or she just wont move.
  And the part that for some reason its not in 1080p . And the part that this is no longer a survival 
 horror really disappointed me. 
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  
  Story: 8.5/10 so far. I haven't personally beaten the game, but I have read that it is really short 
 for a Re game. A little obvious at points.
  
  Characters: 10/10 Wesker is in it, so that's awesome
  
  Multiplayer: 9/10 some minor issues 
 with playing with friends online, and when people leave your game, you have to restart at some 
 points, which the manual actually tells you, so some props for actually saying that, but why not 
 just fix that problem? But the fact that they have the entire game Multiplayer, online and offline, 
 is truly amazing 
  
  I definitely recommend anyone who like action shooters, and fans of the series will still enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZenesisX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Readers note: This review is from the point of view of a gamer that has only played RE4 and RE5. 
 Let it be known that I don't have any past experience with the series before hand so I will not 
 compare any information regarding earlier games. This review is solely evaluating the game as a 
 whole separately from the series, enjoy.
  
  Story: This survival horror game follows along the mission of Chris Redfield, a BSAA (Bioterrorism 
 Security Assessment Alliance) agent. His job this time around is to investigate a possible threat 
 involving one of Umbrella's weapons in the place of all origins, Africa. To be more accurate about 
 the setting of the game, a desert area in Kijuju. Chris is accompanied in this game by another 
 BSAA agent known as Sheva Alomar, who is an African native. She will act as a guide during his 
 mission and also his partner. Together they will uncover the mysteries of the bio-weapon that is 
 sweeping across the nation and take down the bioterrorist behind it.
  
  Gameplay: gameplay in this game is very similar to that of Resident Evil 4. Movement with of characters 
 is the same, no run and gun in this game. It's a slower pace shooter that may not appeal to everyone 
 but is a very important aspect that adds a certain feel to the action. Unlike RE4, developers have 
 implemented a sideway walk into the mechanics which was highly needed in the last installment making 
 movement much better. Enemies will vary throughout the game, naturally stronger as you progress 
 through levels. Ammunition will be limited at times plus foes will be protected in some areas of 
 their bodies in later chapters forcing you to be more tactical and precise. Another addition to 
 RE5 is the new multiplayer system. You can play alone or play with a friend offline/online. This 
 new feature adds a whole new level of fun to the game. You'll find the co-op gameplay truly amazing 
 and innovative to the gaming mechanics. It's a neat idea having someone competent for once watching 
 your back in the heat of battle. Having someone to help you also adds the new feature of trading 
 items, which will be a great asset as you will soon find out. A negative though is the lack of 
 space in inventory; you are only permitted to hold 9 items at a time. The rest of the items can 
 only be stored in a storage space between levels meaning selecting items for use on a level very 
 important.
  
  Graphics: The best way to put it is top of the line. Every area you explore of this game looks 
 great both ingame and cutscenes. I guess in other words, your eyes will be visually pleased at 
 every gaze. Character details look great, main characters and enemies alike. There are no problems 
 here except for RE5 possibly looking too stunning but who's complaining, not me that's for sure.
 
  
  Sound: To go along with the exceptional graphics, the sounds of the game are just as good. Sound 
 effects are impressive, adding a sense of realism. Original orchestra soundtracks add to the feeling 
 of the mood. And to top it all off, voice acting is well acted out making scenes more believable 
 and more entertaining for that matter.
  
  Value: the replay value of this game is varied. The actual length of RE5 is much shorter than that 
 of RE4 so it won't take as long to beat the game. That being the downside of things, you'll find 
 that there are a lot of things that can be unlocked through extra replays of the game on different 
 difficulties. Such unlockables are extra costumes, infinite ammo cheats, extra weapons, visual 
 tweaks and other collectables. So it's up to the gamer as to how long this game will last for them.
 
  
  Overall I was quite satisfied with my purchase of RE5, I did not let other people's opinion sway 
 me from buying this game and you should do the same. If you're into Horror/ survival shooter games 
 and you have a PS3 or 360, then I highly recommend Resident Evil 5.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lance_8_sk
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 17, 2009 3:58 pm PT
Review:  The problem of the game is the partner, it always gets on the way when walking in small rooms, 
 and always worsen everything when bosses or many "zombies" are on the scene.
  
  It was better when Leon was alone and only Ada or someone help out every time and then.
  
  
 The graphics are much better, but there's to much sensitivity on the camera and is constantly moving 
 so makes y a bit dizzy for those players that stay 2 or more hours playing, and this said is like 
 every gamer on the world 2 hours is warm time... LOL.
  
  The language of the "zombies" it's not understandable, I know, I know it's part of the game, but 
 last time it was Spanish RE4.
  
  Also lots of modification made on the panels of life and items.
  
  The soundtrack is good, 
 resident evil sounds are safe, like the box sound on every resident evil, a bit calm sound.
  
  "Zombies" are way more smart and fast than all RE and a bit more than RE4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3alldeway
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2009 8:32 pm PT
Review:  short , length very short. 
  lacks the features of controlling the online play.
  Offline solo is definitely a failure. AI of partner is frustrating to play with. ( he or she always 
 out look for a way to suicide , just to waste your time, items and efforts to provide assistances. 
 
  Difficulties levels are one too many _ amatures, normal, veteran, professional ? 
  Professional mode kills the funs , excitements that the game offers. One hit is enough to put you 
 to replay back from your checkpoint. 
  "....... Some magini hit you and you enter Dying state , ( you can't heal yourself ) and 2 seconds 
 are all the time he/she has to cure you But most in the case you end up dead.
  Environment is basically messed up , etc: 3-1 marshland , go through all sort of ruins at some 
 old tribes then enter a oil field which was pretty modern , and then ruins again ( some old built 
 ) then jump to some military bases n back to the ruins . 
  well overall , solo playing is definitely not an options to find funs , immerses in RE5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bukem00
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 11:47 am PT
Review:  Story:
  
  If you played the other Resident Evil's, you would have known that it was inevitable that the story 
 would eventually take place in Africa. This title bridges the pieces that you gathered in the old 
 games, and if you haven 't gotten those pieces, CAPCOM hands it to you through cutscenes and dialogue. 
 As tempted as I am to indulge in the story, it would be unfair to reveal the plot for those of 
 you who have yet to experience it. Needless to say, it ties into Resident Evil 1 as well as Code 
 Veronica.. and a few other titles. if not all. They are not zombies in this resident evil, which 
 some complain about.. but this is because the virus has evolved to something more.... and fits 
 in with the entire plot of all past resident evil games. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is perfect in every way ... as long as you have a trusted partner. The AI partner 
 is helpful, but could be improved in some ways. Firstly.. if your in his/her way.. ammo might be 
 wasted shooting your back. i think this could have easily been fixed given another month or 2 of 
 development. I have easily learned to move aside in such situations so it doesn't happen anymore. 
 And for bosses, some of the best in the series. The final boss fight is amazing and satisfying 
 in every way. And by satisfying, you'll have to play to see.
  
  Graphics:
  
  In short, beautiful and detailed. Although the 360 one may have an edge up on this, it is not to 
 say its not beautiful. I wasn't expecting more than the shanty town Africa setting as well, but 
 from swaps to caves, to a ship to underground facility.. graphics are beautiful abroad. 
  
  Sound:
  
  The enemies sound realistic. and everything is heard from footsteps to dogs barking. 
 The only downfall I can see is the ominous sound of howling wind in trees as you walk through the 
 night. more prevalent in resident evil zero through 4.. but not in this one due to the setting. 
 The music is great and fits the game perfectly.
  
  Fun:
  
  I haven't had this much fun since the remake of Resident Evil 1 for gamecube and then the breakthrough 
 Resident Evil 4. Although the scare factor is significantly less then resident Evil Zero through 
 3, and plays a lot more like 4.. it is still 110% fun in every way imaginable. 
  
  Replay Value:
  
  Extremely High. New unlockables only unlocked through completing various modes 
 and minigames in the game. Find emblems for new costumes (3 cosumes per character is pretty great) 
 buy upgrades for weapons.. unlock unlimited ammo by upgrading a weapon fully (which take a lot 
 of dough just for one) and then purchasing the unlimited ammo and extras by using score points 
 you receive for completing levels.. Depending on your rank in levels you could unlock more. Unlock 
 different mercenaries, unlock Sheva.. you name it.. It has one of the best replay values for a 
 PS3 game. And you'll want to get all the trophies/achievements as well, so don't be surprised if 
 you find yourself replying it again and again. I'm on my second play through.. and only upgraded 
 2 weapons fully on my first go out of the near 20 available.. that should give you an idea of how 
 much work is yet to be done. 
  
  I rarely review games on gamespot.. but this one was worth the time to communicate to Resident 
 Evil fans that Capcom has not let us down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saad77
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 7:32 am PT
Review:  i like this game very much it is hard to play but i enjoy a lot playing it i think that it is better 
 than resident evil 4 and any game i had played. the new characters of this game are also very cool 
 but i like leon scott kenedy more than chris . i liked this game very much and i think its coooooooooooooooooool.... 
 and awesome and if you are a begginer this will be the best game you had ever played i really say 
 that it is cool fabulus awesome splendid realistic horror and fantastic. the best game. the guns 
 and everything in this game is awesome including its sound graphics and characters like chris and 
 many other. if u play this game one time you will wish to play it again and again and u will never 
 get bored .it is the game including everything like gold rubys an d guns and armour the i like 
 the best in this game is chris and the guns they are awesome and look raelistic, the graphics of 
 this game are also very goods and this is the best horror game i had ever played in mu life yet 
 i want them to also realese resident evil 6 and make it awesome than any resident evil including 
 the most horror games this game is really the best good and awesome i really really really like 
 this game and i want to play more and more games like this i really enjoy playing htis game its 
 really really the best game ever 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anthrax53
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  I'm going to write this and hope against hope that SOMEONE with any pull at all in how Resident 
 Evil gets written sees it and takes it to heart.
  
  I've played every Resident Evil starting from the original Playstation with the exception of the 
 Wii games, and through all the years it has been my favourite game franchise. I've definitely had 
 the most fun playing them than any other one. The combination of a corrupt company with mansions 
 and cities with secret laboratories, bio-engineered monsters, interesting characters, tricky but 
 believable obstacles and puzzles to overcome, fixed camera angles and the scarcity of ammunition 
 all add up to a really amazing experience that created an entirely new genre: survival horror.
 
  
  I am truly sad to say, that somewhere between Code: Veronica and RE 4 somebody decided to fix what 
 was never broken in the first place. And continued that in the RE5, however a few things did keep 
 me and other RE purists happy.
  
  I truly hated RE4. Gameplay wise yes, it improved on some things but the lack of the trademark 
 camera angles bugged me more than I ever though it could. Being able to see around corners takes 
 away a huge amount of what made the RE games great, and RE5 continues that unfortunate trend. 
 
  
  Ammunition is a complete joke, I currently have over a hundred rounds of shotgun ammo... completely 
 ridiculous for an RE game, and that's just the shotgun! Even this upgrading your weapon garbage... give 
 me a break. Bring back the finding weapon parts and being able to add those on to fix up your gun, 
 not this stupid money for upgrading. RE games were great because you actually had to think about 
 how to play the game, not just run around and gun everything down.
  
  My biggest annoyance, is the disappearance of "zombies" and this introduction of parasite-controlled 
 enemies. I could believe that maybe a virus could be created to basically kill someones mind and 
 make them run on only their most basic instinct.... which is to eat. Hence the "zombies". But this 
 mind-controlling parasite crap that mutates is just stupidity. Oh, and they can shoot guns and 
 stuff too. Right. 
  
  RE5's plot was up and down for me. I was THRILLED to see some kind of laboratory and the brief 
 re-introduction of Umbrella, but then it turned into this totally cliche garbage about Wesker wanting 
 to infect the world and only the chosen ones will survive, with him ruling of course. Oh and he 
 has a stealth bomber that takes off from his big special aircraft carrier super-tanker ship. Give. 
 Me. A. Break.
  
  The graphics are of course amazing and that used to be enough for everyone but not anymore, people 
 are catching on to this trend of amazing looking garbage games with no story.
  
  I had a lot of faith that a game franchise with as much prestige as Resident Evil wouldn't be let 
 down by dummy writers but I guess anything is possible. I just know that unless they go back to 
 what made them famous in the first place, RE will be dead to me.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  It's finally here, the game I have been waiting over a year for. The first HD Resident Evil for 
 this gen as well as Chris and Wesker making returns. Well was it worth the wait? Although there 
 was many great elements and advances the series made, it just doesn't feel like Resident Evil as 
 much anymore but does a fine job as an action shooter, none the less.
  
  Gameplay 9/10- Well, I must say, RE5 is impressive in terms of gameplay and I will even go as far 
 to say it even has further advanced elements and weapons than RE4. The new partner system can be 
 difficult to get used to but can be helpful in tight situations and add a little more survival 
 factor to the game, but also breaks RE away from being horror, which this game lacks more than 
 RE4. Basically, gameplay mechanics are the same as RE4 so if you liked RE4, you will be fine with 
 the way this game plays, enemies attack in a similar manner, AI is about the same, weapons are 
 similar with a few different guns, and the only difference I found is menus and the new partner 
 system. So let me go to the differences, no upgrading weapons I found much simpler and more convinient 
 in this game and you can compare weapons side to side. 
  
  Pretty much you can access the upgrade menu if you quit the game or beat a level or even dye as 
 well as buy new items from this game. I found money to be pretty easy to collect but there are 
 many weapons which can be upgraded to unlimited ammo once fully upgraded which is a nice feature. 
 The game is also broken into levels, which kind of breaks away the adventure part of the game but 
 it doesn't make too much of a difference I guess and you get ranked, like Umbrella Chronicles, 
 for beating levels with certain accuracy, deaths, and enemies killed, ect. These points can buy 
 action figures and unlimited ammo for guns once the ability is unlocked, adding replay. Item menu 
 is more limited and can only be accessed during gameplay, adding more survival factor as well as 
 intensity. I found enemy variety to be good, although a lot of enemy models seem to be similar 
 to previous RE enemies with new paint jobs and animations are very similar to RE4. The story can 
 either be a like or a hate. I like how RE5 kind of concludes things with Chris and does fill in 
 a lot of the blanks between games, as well as reveals Wesker's true motives as well as other characters 
 who we finally see but the story does seem a bit rushed as well as a little thin, and some elements 
 may be confusing and out of place, but if anyone has any doubts or question about the RE storyline, 
 after beating this game, all will be cleared. Also Co-Op is a nice feature as well as split screen 
 and unlockables are good. 
  
  Graphics 9/10- No complaints here besides slightly weak framerate at parts, especially during co-op, 
 but other than that, this is one of the nicest games graphically of this gen right next to Metal 
 Gear Solid 4 and Call of Duty 4. 
  
  Sound 9/10- Voice acting for most characters is done well and sound is basically similar to RE4 
 and the soundtrack is nicely put together. There are a few creepy moments as well. 
  
  Value 9/10- Basically, this RE has a lot more than any other RE but also kind of short at only 
 8 hours on my first playthrough but four difficulty levels as well as Co-Op should keep you playing 
 much longer. Tons and tons of unlockables and weapons to fully upgrade and now that the game is 
 broken into levels, I see no need to put this game down after one, two, or even three full playthroughs. 
 Mercenaries is also included with different character costumes and now you can use different screen 
 filters for fun. This RE is packed with the most weapons and unlockables. I just wish it had more 
 modes like RE4 had separate ways. 
  
  Tilt 8/10- Overall, this game is amazing to those who have never played the full RE series before 
 and will be one of the greatest games to them, but those who are veterans and even liked RE4 may 
 be a little upset with the lack of horror as well as the partner system and kind of thin plot but 
 you will be pleased with Wesker and there are some levels that reminded me of RE4, which is good. 
 Some levels felt generic, more near the end, like Uncharted, well others felt original and RE-like. 
 I also think the enemies shouldn't have had guns because now it is more of an action game you see 
 everyday. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guntario
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 8:23 am PT
Review:  Some developers focus too much on one specific area of a game, such as graphics, and neglect the 
 other factors necessary to make a great game, such as replayability, or a good storyline. Not the 
 case with Resident Evil 5. Every aspect of this game was polished beyond my expectations. However, 
 I have never been much for online multiplayer, and I really can't see teaming up with people I 
 don't know for a co-op. So, I will leave the multiplayer part out of this review.
  
  For starters, the graphics are amazing. I thought they were good in Killzone 2 and Fear 2, but 
 the detail in these scenes was beyond anything I've ever seen. At one point in the game, I had 
 the camera angle to where I could see a closeup of a spider's web and I was impressed with the 
 detail in even such a small thing as this. There were flies caught in the web and wiggling around. 
 The enemies were crazy as well. The scene with one boss is a guy turning into a monster and becoming 
 attached to it's tongue. It was gross.
  
  The cutscenes are Hollywood quality, and are better done than most movies. I don't know who directed 
 them, but they are probably the best I have seen in a game to date. 
  
  Like I said earlier, the graphics are not the only area of this game which the developers focused 
 on. The storyline was outstanding. They even caught you up to date on the history of Umbrella and 
 explained how everything fits in with previous games. There are multitudes of unlockable items 
 to be gained by completing tasks and collecting what are called, "BSAA Tokens." You can even unlock 
 weapons with unlimited ammo. This unlockable content will have me playing for many, many hours 
 to come.
  
  There is also a mode that is unlocked when the game is beaten called, "Mercenary." In this mode, 
 you are put into a situation and you have to eliminate as many zombie people as possible in a given 
 time. Your results are then uploaded to an online server and your results are compared with others. 
 Tons of fun there.
  
  My only complaint I have with this game is the fact that you are forced to team up with a partner. 
 I wish I had the option as to whether or not to take her with me. There were a couple of levels 
 where she was useless except in one or two areas and in one place, her AI wasn't good enough to 
 time a run from wall to wall to avoid a heat ray thing. She kept on getting hit by it, while I 
 would run through with no problem. I wish I could have told her to stay, like I could in RE4.
 
  
  However, I love the way a friend of mine can just hit the start button on my other controller and 
 jump right in the game with me. It's always fun to have a couple friends over and play some games.
 
  
  So needless to say, I will be playing this game for a long time to come, trying to unlock all the 
 content and get better at mercenary mode. Great job Capcom! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cannibaldmc
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 6:47 am PT
Review:  At last!! a resident evil that beats its predecessors!
  i was a hardcore resi evil 2 fan before playing 5!!
  
  And i must say the gameplay, graphics 
 , motion control, lighting effects are top notch on this title!
  
  Some people complain about the controls - but my god stop whingin and play somethin else! if you 
 had played any other resi evil then you would be happy!!
  
  Now for the gameplay ----------
  The new 'light' aspect of resident evil really opens up a box 
 of ideas while it adds a certain aspect of terror! The sweat and expressions on the faces of chris/sheva 
 and the kimuju are really good lol
  The smooth body motions while uppercutting/somersaulting against some1s face feels great while 
 not going out of synch or blurring,.. 
  Running away from groups of enemies that you cannot defeat is more nerve tingling than picking 
 of slow zombies,.,.
  
  I love the 2player aspect of the game and well its really its selling point.
  Sheva is very responsive 
 and can take care of herself really well,
  she wastes ammo with the handgun quite alot so always stick her on the sub machine gun.. although 
 she is really good replenishing health while dying which was helpfull during boss battles ,
  
  The only thing missing is limb mutilation and body parts being dismembered from the zombies. 
 i need more!!!
  
  The mercenaries is the icing on the cake!!
  Nothing better than time trials to wipe out some kimuju scum!!
  
  will update when i have 100% 
 completed!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rofolini
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:07 am PT
Review:  so my gf and I have been waiting for this games since the end of RE4. We knew it was going to be 
 badass, but we had no idea it was going to be this badass. My gf has sat and watched me play RE0,1,2,3,4, 
 and Code Veronica -- sometimes she played but she hated the controls for RE0-3. RE4s controls were 
 fantastic and so she was able to play RE4 easily and had fun. But it was always a battle for the 
 controller. With RE5 we don't have to fight over the controller anymore. I have never ever played 
 a game like this with my gf -- truly awesome.
  
  I would have given this game a ten had it not been for some minor issues: 720p instead of 1080p, 
 initializing the co-op mode is a bit strange, and you would think that with 4+ yrs of development 
 the story would have been more complicated. Also, after playing Metal Gear Solid 4, its really 
 hard not to compare RE4 as a master piece to MGS4. Regardless of my feelings towards MGS4, this 
 game is just truly awesome and is a must have for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 12:22 am PT
Review:  Wow !!! This is my first impression by looking at the game.. the "wow" bring a lot of meaning .. 
 wow what a good looking game, wow what a good amount of detail input , wow what a good action packed 
 movie rather scary and my last wow isWOW WHAT A COPY GAME SYSTEM FROM RE4" This word may sound 
 offended few people but i will still give the game a 9 rather than 7 or 8 .. bec of few good point 
 later I will mention in the review ...
  
  Ok lets start and get scared.. oh i mean action review.... From the RE4 , it have make history by 
 doing a good camera view of shoulder view which make game a little more interesting ... RE4 has 
 done a great job .. However RE5 seem to be juicing out the same thing from Re4 ... from gameplay 
 except inventory , action packed to same zombie .. RE5 this is some of the few hiccup of the game..
 
  
  Lets look at the game , the game is packed with action and adventure , non stop hard action .. 
 which will entertain most of gamer , but the Re is losing its magic by minimizing the survival 
 horror to action .. even zombie are more look like human than dead zombie looking maggot going 
 through its eye .. I love action packed game thats y this game manage to caputure my idiot action 
 heart :p. The game is always fill with non stop action by putting dozen and dozen of Majini ( Zombie 
 of RE5) and one giant mini boss such as chainsaw man or executioner .. It will make u shout OMFG 
 RUN !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! or Lets Blast them back to Hell !!!! Story wise .. it goes back to the original 
 giant, good looking , big biceps call Chris Reidfield.. try to track down a bio-terrorist with 
 the help of a good looking girl call Sheva Alamar .. Good looking guy and girl trying to save the 
 world from terrorist seem to ba a typical movie style .. :) 
  
  Gameplay wise , everthing are just the same like RE4 like what i say earlier. U still cant walk 
 and shoot like Gears of War or any third person Shooter game .. U able to starfe now .. the only 
 changes is the inventory .. now u only can bring 9 items in ur bag .. diiferent than Re4 wher u 
 have a magical box case where u can bring along with Leon always which u can stack like jigsaw 
 ... there will be different for items such as herb .. there is no yellow herb to help u make ur 
 life longer.. in the game what u c is what u have with u. ( tips : if u use any aid spray , try 
 standing next to ur patner . the spray will heal u and ur patner .. this help to save more aid) 
 For sheva seem its Ai is ok but don let her hold handgun .. She will spam wat ever bullet she might 
 get and tend toio ruch over u just to get the bullet .I am the boss so listen to me" i always 
 say this word to my Sheva .. ius better to give her machine gun seem it get a little smart in using 
 it .. keep ur self a shotgun ..
  
  Coop seem to be inportant as Sheva will always has ur back rather than RE4 where we have a weak 
 ashley where only to how to shout and warn us she is in danger "Help leon, Help" .. Sheva is a 
 badass girl "Lock n'Load Patner" will help u wen u are in danger mode where all turn red in ur 
 view and sheva will inject u or give a hand at ur back and u are ready to continue ur duty ... 
 u may also assist her in jumping higher ground ... 
  
  After playing the game .. it will unlock mercenaries and few additional special mode like unlimited 
 ammo .. and changing costume... on the Multiplayer play is actually similiar like single player 
 but play with ur fren by offline or online .. offline will experience laging and frame crop since 
 they will unleash dozen a majini and cramp the whole screen untill u cant c where the hell is u 
 .. if online there is few flaw like have to wait till the person play till a checkpoint den only 
 allow player to join.. u cant pop in nito anygame u wan to help the person... joining since to 
 be a bit harder..
  
  OK after few here and there , i decided to giv the game 9 rather GS giv 8.5 bec i love the action 
 in the game . thats what make me giv the game a good thumb up rather two thumb .. PLz Re6 will 
 be better and more scarier and more action packed .. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mateusprado
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:33 am PT
Review:  This confusion about YOU CANNOT RUN AND SHOOT AT SAME TIME is like the critic about the LONG CUT 
 SCENES of Metal Gear Solid. The RE fans love the RE shoot mecanic like MGS fans love the long cut 
 scenes.
  
  YOU CANNOT RUN AND SHOOT AT SAME TIME is a feature not a issue! Who needs run and shoot at same 
 time is Marcus Fenix because him enemys are fast end big soldiers. But Chris is a big guy with 
 big weapons and definitly don't need the same ability to kill deads sicks zombies.
  
  Please games, leave Capcom alone about that!!
  
  Thanks for read my review and go to buy ur 
 RE5 copy right now cause it is the GOTY 2009, graphics, mecanic, history with characters of old 
 school times, u will be surrounded by fear and a lot of tension from the begin to the end. RE5 
 has a great replay value to extendend the 15 to 20 hours of amazing game.
  
  If u enjoy with Resident Evil 4... the 5 chapter was made to you. 
  
  Enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: _LiL_E
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 9:48 pm PT
Review:  Resident evil 5 is one of the best games ive played in a long while. It has lots for a player to 
 do and always keeps u in the action with suspense and tension always waiting for something to come 
 around the corner.
  
  It has a single player campaign and an offline and online co-op mode which is very rewarding.
 
  
  The guns are fun to shoot and are always very effective which is very helpful.
  In the game u have an inventory which stores all ur belonings like guns, health and other stuff. 
 when u first start it is a bit confusing but as soon as u know what ur doing the inventory is easy 
 to work. You can trade bullets with your partner, health and other items but the only bummer is 
 guns can not be traded between partners. If you want to play with a friend all they have to do 
 is press the start button and ur friend immediately becomes your partner. Playing with a friend 
 is very fun experience and brings a new a aspect to the resident evil game which has never been 
 there before. 
  
  The graphics in RES5 are amazing with every detail captured very well on the ps3. Doors are seamless 
 and the sun makes the game look very slick even in those dark caves or alleways were sometimes 
 its a bit hard to see the screen. 
  
  Overalll RES5 is a very good horror RPG shooter it does all the basics very well and adds new elements 
 to the game which make RES5 one of the best games realsed in 2009 =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Essian
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:38 pm PT
Review:  If you are like me, you are not happy with reviewers right now. Almost every reviewer on the market 
 is glossing over the partner AI in this game, and praising the coop. That's not a good review. 
 A good review is a comprehensive look at all the game's aspects, both good and bad. If that is 
 what you want, you came to the right place. Resident Evil 5 is a classic example of a good game 
 that could have been so much more. Every second of gameplay leaves you thinking that "It could 
 have been better if..." Still, the game is definitely enjoyable, and should be picked up by anyone 
 who enjoyed Resident Evil 4 or Dead Space.
  
  Let's talk about the story first. Now, if you have played past RE games, you should know by now 
 that they are notorious for heavy handed dialogue and horrible voice acting. So it may surprise 
 you to find out that this game almost manages to lose those two traditions. The dialogue is, at 
 times, predictable and cheesy, but for the most part it remains grounded, and at times even impressed 
 me with how much it pulled me into the gravity of the overall situation. You play as Chris Redfield, 
 who fans will recognize from past RE games, who has just arrived in Africa to prevent the sale 
 of some B. O. W.'s (Bio weapons) and take down the dealer. What follows is a 9-12 hour journey through 
 many different areas of Africa. Along the way you will encounter a myriad of characters, both new 
 and old, and the narrative does a good job of moving the story along. In the end, you will probably 
 care what's going on. Unless of course you are me (an unsympathetic jerk) .
  
  But what would a sub-par story be without gameplay to back it up? When thinking about how Resi 
 5 plays, just copy and paste RE4, except add a few different control schemes that give you the 
 ability to strafe while walking. This is both a good and a bad thing at the same time. It's a good 
 thing because it also carries over the tension of not knowing if your back is covered, and the 
 constant fear of where enemies are coming from. It's bad in the sense that the control scheme can 
 feel dated at times. However, the controls ultimately become a love or hate situation. If you can 
 accept the controls for what they are, then you will probably come to like them and see them as 
 an addition to the tension element, and if you can't then this game becomes a merciless grind through 
 9-12 hours of hell.
  
  Of course, what good would controls be without people to shoot? Believe it or not, I liked the 
 enemy AI. They weren't Rhode scholars, but they weren't supposed to be either. The majority of 
 enemies are supposed to be crazed villagers who want to bash in your skull with a broken bottle. 
 They are fast, agile, and they most definitely come at you without mercy. I never felt like the 
 enemies were going soft on me like I sometimes did in RE4. Furthermore, conventions of the last 
 game won't work here. For instance, in RE4 I would often bottleneck all of my enemies through a 
 door to consolidate ammo. In this game, that leads to one or more of the little scamps sneaking 
 in through a window to surprise me. You will have to keep moving and be good shot to survive in 
 this game.
  
  However, there are two sides to every coin, and while there is good enemy AI, the partner AI is 
 merely passable. Sure, she manages to cover your back and she is a dead shot with pretty much every 
 gun, but Sheva has her drawbacks. Close quarters combat is one of them. Throughout the game you 
 will encounter enemies that are shorter than you, and when they manage to get right next to her, 
 it takes Sheva a decade or two to aim at them and take them out. I usually had to do it for her. 
 Furthermore, she tends to gobble up ammunition. Though she is a fantastic shooter, she doesn't 
 always aim for the head, and she rarely if ever uses melee attacks on stunned foes. However, I 
 don't agree with the accusations that she gobbles up healing items. She is actually programmed 
 to use them to their max effectiveness. For instance, if she has a green herb in her inventory, 
 she will use it the second that you fall down just far enough to get the full effect of the herb. 
 Similarly, I've found that she usually waits to pop the stronger healing items as well. 
  
  However, you'll find that sometimes Sheva can be really useful. Or at least, she won't get in your 
 way enough for her to destroy the experience. As for coop... I haven't tried it yet. That will 
 probably come as a part 2 of this review in my blog. However, by now you should know that the Resident 
 Evil 5 coop is some of the best on the market, and if you intend to always play coop, whether local 
 or online, then you should definitely get this game.
  
  Once you beat the 9-12 hour campaign (give or take depending on how you play) , the game really 
 gets going. You can then play mercs mode, which is a faithful translation of the RE4 mercenaries 
 mode. And trust me, it hasn't lost any of its potency. This mode is still an intense thrill ride 
 where you have to balance killing as many foes in the allotted time limit with staying alive and 
 exploring for the time extenders. Overall it is an insanely intense and rewarding experience that 
 will keep you coming back for more.
  
  But that's not all. The game also encourages you to come back to the single player campaign to 
 earn trophies, collect BSAA emblems, and complete the game on tougher settings. To give you an 
 example of how much this game promotes replay, I checked my % completion after beating the single 
 player for the first time, and it said 25%. I'd say those are pretty good numbers.
  
  Graphically, this game is beyond stunning. The character models are brilliantly designed, and are 
 complimented by a slew of fantastic animations. There is a pretty intense fixation with detail, 
 as everything has an animation to it, and they are all fantastic, from using a healing item, to 
 collecting ammo, to jumping, etc. The environments are varied and well-detailed, from shanty towns 
 to underground laboratories, this game doesn't disappoint in the visuals department. Also, this 
 game boasts some of the best cutscenes I have ever seen (dwarfing MGS4 as my previous CS favorite) 
 with great action choreography and great camera work.
  
  So should you buy this game? Well that depends. Whereas RE4 was an easy game to recommend, as it 
 had only one flaw (the controls) which was easily overlooked, this one has several. In the end, 
 it comes down to whether or not you can take the good with the bad. Can you endure sometimes-annoying 
 partner AI, some weirdly action-oriented gimmicks in chapter 5, and some dated controls? If so, 
 then you will be rewarded with one of the most intense, enjoyable, and long-lasting experiences 
 that this generation has to offer. If only it didn't have what few problems it did, it would have 
 been so much better than just plain "good." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dipuccio
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  First off, I think that RE4 is the greatest game ever made. Any platform, any console, any year. 
 I played that game all the way thru about 8 or 9 times and loved every minute of it.
  
  RE5 had some very big shoes to fill for me, and I have been waiting a long time to play this game..... just 
 like some of you. 
  
  RE5 is just plain fun - although quite different than 4. I'm not gonna say that 4 was scary, but 
 this game is "less scary" than 4, although more action-filled.
  
  This game is also easier than 4 (at least on the normal difficulty) so if you are a RE fan and 
 haven't bought this yet (yes, all 3 of you) you might wanna play it on the harder difficulty.
 
  
  RE5 looks lincredible - best looking game I have ever seen, slightly better than MGS4.
  
  The additions like co-op, the way inventory works and more action prompts all work for me. 
 I like them and frankly didn't think I would when I first started playing it.
  
  Bottom line is this: RE5 is a great game...... NOT QUITE as good as 4, but certainly worth owning 
 if you are a fan of the series. Well worth the $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gre203
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:53 pm PT
Review:  RE5 is a very great game, and I can't possibly see why some people don't like it! (Besides the 
 fact that it looks like a hashed version of RE4) . I mean come on people, it's the new age of technology, 
 and you can't say this game would be great if it was the same graphics, same camera functions, 
 and everything you hated before RE4. (Considering would you want bad camera angles when dealing 
 with two chainsaw guys in one area?) 
  Though the gameplay, graphics, and story is quite amazing, I only have one problem, online. You 
 tend to get killed a lot when you shoot one guy in the head and wait 2 seconds for the shot to 
 register to punch the living daylights out of everyone around you, including your partner. (Which 
 I find funny. ^_^) And the AI is amazing, though some people say the partner sucks, I find her 
 quite useful, in some cases. 
  When you can't find any enemies and they're around, she whips out the handgun and busts a cap in 
 their ass giving you their location. Now there are some times where I just want to rip her clothes 
 off, send her into the middle of the battlefield, and let the villagers have their way with her 
 while I snipe the bastards, because that seems to be her only usefulness if it was allowed. AI 
 tends to be a little, "Dee Dee Dee", when having a shotgun when going against the dogs. She just 
 stands around aiming slowly while they mane my ass. I won't go any deeper into the game, to avoid 
 spoilers, but besides A. K. A-Ashely with a gun, this game is pretty awesome. Makes me wonder how 
 they are going to take on Neo. (Wesker is Neo for crying out loud!!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perrinbdk66
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The actually game takes 11 to 14 hours but offers many hours of bonus and unlockable material. 
 Language is rather minor for a "Strong Language" mark. It consists of 1 F-word, 3 GD, 2 B**ch, 
 1 B**t*rd, about 10 S**t, and some damns and hells peppered throughout. It also has a few vain 
 religious exclamations. Most language is found in cut scenes. The villagers speak what sounds like 
 Swahili, and I don't understand what they say. As for Sex and the like, there is one female character 
 who wears a provocative shirt, showing some side cleavage. As far as violence goes, this game is 
 very violent. It has horror themes as well as constant killing of infected "zombies". While these 
 people act somewhat human like, upon dying they show an alien-like/plant creature that take the 
 place of their heads. In many ways this is Capcom's artistic way of showing the gamer that the 
 semi-intelligent zombies are not in fact normal human beings. The game contains blood and gore, 
 albeit somewhat less in the "splashes" that other gamers like Gears of War copiously exhibit. I 
 found this game very enjoyable and quite rewarding when played co-op with a friend. It is not however 
 a game made for sensitive or young audiences. It is aimed for more mature crowds. I loved it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaaaay-k
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:55 pm PT
Review:  -The Good-
  
  - Great graphics
  - Smart partner AI
  - Lots of weapons to choose from
  - Fun bosses and mini bosses
  - Great aiming system
  - Great controls
  - Mercenaries game
 
  - Good story
  - A variety of Not-Zombies to fight
  - Nice music and sound effects 
  
  -The Bad-
  
  After one play through of this game I didn't find anything wrong with the game. 
 One thing is though if you play with Sheva the doors you need two people to kick though she can 
 kick down on her own, but that really isn't bad so much as funny that she can break down doors 
 Chris can't on his own.
  
  Everything in this game is great and you should at least rent this if not buy it. Fans and newcomers 
 to the series will have fun with this game. This may not be so much a Survival Horror game anymore 
 so much as a Survival Action game with a horror story but Resident Evil 5 is still a great game 
 with great graphics, sound, enemies, weapons, story, and of course lots of blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  After driving into Africa, Chris is immediately greeted by Sheva Alomar, who agrees to accompany 
 him. The two rendezvous with a butcher who tells them to locate a man named Irving. Along the way, 
 the two see someone get fed a strange object which turns him into a majini. After some time, the 
 two watch the butcher's execution. As the two fight through the crowd, Kirk saves them by blowing 
 open the way. As they progress, the two find a woman get attacked and infected, whom they defeat 
 after seeing a Las Plagas explode from her head like in Resident Evil 4. While attempting to locate 
 Irving, the two find the Alpha team dead except one man who is mortally wounded but manages to 
 give them data on a hard drive. Irving is nowhere to be seen. The two kill the monster who took 
 out Alpha team shortly after. Meanwhile, Irving is in a car with a hooded figure. On your journey, 
 you will venture through marshlands, caves, shanty towns, and much more. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Resident Evil 5 is almost the very same as Resident Evil 4 in the gameplay department. It is an 
 over-the-shoulder third-person shooter. There are many weapons throughout the game that you can 
 upgrade between each level, or each time you die. You can earn money by selling treasure that you 
 find throughout the game. 
  
  Resident Evil 5 introduces something new to the series. A co-op campaign. It is a lot of fun teaming 
 up with a friend and taking on hordes of manjini. The only problem with that is the shortage of 
 ammo.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Resident Evil 5 looks amazing, as do most of the other games on the Play Station 3. The cut scenes 
 really look beautiful.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  This is probably the game's biggest downfall. The control can be really annoying. It took me a 
 while to get used to it. You turn very slowly when you are shooting to add difficulty to the game. 
 Another problem that I have is that you can't move around when you have your red-dot sight on. 
 Other than that, the game control is sound.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  Resident Evil has amazing music. It really sucks you in. The sound-effects are amazing also. There 
 is nothing like the sound of a manjini when their head explodes. My only problem is the voice-over 
 that they used. Their mouth don't move with the words if it is more than a one-word sentence.
 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  Resident Evil 5 is an awesome game that is fun for any fans of this gerne, although I have heard 
 that is not as good if you are a full-fledged fan of the series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 9:27 am PT
Review:  I have never played a Resident evil game before, but something about this game really stood out 
 and I had to get it. 
  Firstly the graphics are outstanding, and make it look completely like a next-gen game. Artistically 
 crafted environments and great lighting effects make the Africa setting look amazing. The over-the-shoulder 
 perspective works really well and the gameplay matches to go with it. On RE5 there is no cross-hair, 
 but a red laser emitting out the end of each gun, which is a lot better than it sounds. Also, you 
 can't move and shoot at the same time. It seems a bit difficult at first, but you soon get used 
 to it, and it doesn't make the game rushed or a run-and-gun shooter like most games now. It makes 
 great shoot-outs as you are standing there aiming while dozens of enemies are walking or running 
 towards you.
  The enemies, like the other Resident Evil games, are zombies. The contagion has spread and you 
 and your partner are battling hundreds of them. Each one moves with great animation and one desire 
 - to eat you! Some run at you whilst others walk towards you. Some have grenades and some have 
 environmental weapons. And even some (when you shoot them in the head) will mutate into something 
 more hideous which are fascinating to look at. Dogs heads will split in half and humans will grow 
 tentacles out of their neck or hatch winged bats out of their back. Either way, don't think a headshot 
 will kill them. Expect anything from any enemy. One of the toughest enemies you will face will 
 wield a chainsaw, and things can get really nasty.
  There are also plenty of weapons to have, and the money you come across from gold or selling unique 
 treasures, will provide plenty of guns to buy and upgrade.
  If you're playing on single player then the AI partner, Sheva Alomar, will provide good skills 
 and help you out when needed. She is accurate in shoot outs, but one thing noticeable about her 
 is that she does use up quite a bit of ammo, which requires you having to give her some of yours. 
 Your ammo will drain quickly and so you need to find and conserve your ammo when necessary.
  RE5 is also remarkably bloody, with exploding heads from well placed gun shots or complete disintegration 
 from grenades.
  The cutscenes are outstanding, not only because of the realistic and life-like animations but because 
 of the solid voice acting. Each character sounds right and expressions are naturalistic. Some cutscenes 
 are also broken up with button pressing to escape dangers, which adds to the fun aswell as keeping 
 you intrigued. The plot is difficult to tell as there is no set objective on the screen but an 
 arrow pointing to the next location to get to in order to advance to the next level. Basically, 
 contain the bio-terrorism threat that could infect the rest of the world. Enjoy!
  
  Story- 3/5
  Characters- 4/5
  Gameplay- 5/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Graphics- 5/5
  Sound- 4/5
 
  Length- 5/5
  Replayability- 4/5
  
  Good Points: Great graphics, realistic environments and body animations, creepy enemies, gory and 
 tense shoot-outs, Great AI, a range of weapons to destroy your enemies, a range of enemies and 
 levels keep things intriguing.
  
  Bad Points: AI partner wastes ammo, Not a well told story, poor cover system. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QSplice
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 7:12 am PT
Review:  Tremedously good-looking. Pretty surroundings.
  
  Still, that doesn't make up for the lack of eerie feeling that was there, in some sense, in res 
 4. The fright part they try to infuse is through the stress factor. 
  There really should be less ammo available, it's more of a struggle to be forced to use your knife 
 once in a while.
  
  Normal difficulty is way to easy so i'd recommend playing on veteran, makes up for the disturbingly 
 easy bossfights.
  
  The new inventory works and the gameplay is good and everything flows on nicely. At times the cutscene 
 acting is really good, with all the expressions and vice versa.
  
  The storyline is alright though, does'nt sweep your feet of nor does i make you crumble on the 
 floor trying to deny it.
  
  co-op offline on full HD is deffective, it splits the screen abit wicked. And as p2 you can't buy 
 nor upgrade stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: louisthebest
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 5:54 am PT
Review:  the good-
  -similar to 4
  -graphics
  -great cut scenes
  -good story
  -co op/online
  -fun set pieces
  -larger than life bosses and 
  sub bosses
  -mercaneries
  -good arsenal 
 of weapons
  
  the bad-
  -similar to 4
  -you cant invite friends online
  -some bad dialogue
  
  h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h 
 h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h 
 h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h 
 h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h 
 h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h 
 h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h 
 h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h 
 h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h 
 h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h 
  h h h h h h h h h hh h h h h h h h h h 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tiduszidane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 4:59 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong the game is fantastic and the visuals and the gameplay are great. However, the 
 fact that it is so similar to RESI 4 makes it's most blaring weakness but also its greatest strength. 
 It's a MUST game for resi fans but they will buy it anyway but it doesn't bring that much new to 
 the genre as much as RESI 4 did all those years ago and there feels something lacking from it, 
 like you were somehow expecting it to be better. But that is only because it was followed by such 
 a perfect game. Unfortunately, we are always going to compare and if this game stood alone from 
 others it would probably get a better score but because the new Director at Capcom decided to play 
 it safe and stick so rigidly to RESI 4 it suggests that this is a game with it's feet and essence 
 still in the previous generation consoles. Don't get me wrong, as I said it's a great game, coming 
 from a Resi fan with some truely memorable moments and set pieces, especially against the copycatted 
 El Gigante. But when you play through it, it seems vaguely familiar, especially the Majini actions 
 and behaviour. 
  Also, the move to a cooperative gameplay was a must for this game considering the upgrade the Majini 
 seemed to have gotten from the Ganados, which adds a depth to the gameplay. But what seems to hinder 
 is the inventory system which is at best is frustrating, the fact that Chris seems to be the only 
 one able to combine herbs and that Sheva despite facing the a boss will insist using her Hand-gun. 
 Added to that the fact that bringing up the inventory doesn't pause the game, and to sort your 
 items out you'll have to run away leaving Sheva behind (although she will follow you) then run 
 back into the fray, it's not a hindrance but just an annoyance and a break in the action.
  As for the story, well it's what we've come to expect from RESI games but thats not why we play 
 them, although it links the action to location etc. It will offer enough insights to keep really 
 only the people who know the Resi story interested. If you don't know who Jill Valentine or Wesker 
 is, the story will mean buttons to you.
  All in all it's a solid game and one worthy of recognition in that it is a must play for anyone 
 interested in action, horror or just a good romp. However, it's not as strong as it could be, because 
 its set in the shadow of RESI 4. The game by comparison is not as good or ground breaking but thats 
 only because we compare it to one of the best games of the previous generation.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: aliloooz
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:31 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10 
  Apart from the partner feature, it's not great to have nothing new to do in the new title, except 
 for practically nothing at all. But if you consider the tiltle's unfeatured recycling feature, 
 it's not much surprise.
  
  The distribution of the action times and the quite times in the game is poor done. So are the start 
 and the break of both.
  
  
  
  Partner Feature: 9.5/10
  The online coop-mode is simply one of the top awesome things you can ever do in a videogame.
 
  
  
  
  A. I: 9/10
  Some minor issues, like your partner could stand there shooting through you forever without trying 
 to go around you. It is not though the big of an issue at all as it might sound.
  
  
  
  Cutscenes: 9/10
  
  
  
  Visuals: 9/10
  Poor color filters for cutscenes. No good African 
 style implementation in all game.
  
  Minor bugs, like you could find your partner's shadow walking alone on the ground in front of you, 
 while your partner is actually walking right above you on the corridor upstairs.
  
  
  
  Music: 6/10
  There's music, mostly that's is as far as you're gonna get. Totally tasteless. RE4 
 was a masterpiece in compare.
  
  
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Great for basic and mid-range details. Lacks for professional details.
  
  
  
  Story 7/10
 
  Most stoylines of video games are basically lame, but they present it as good as hell. The storyline 
 in RE5 is a little very lame, and not much at all was done to manufacture that.
  
  
  
  
  Summary:
  If you're looking for a third person shooter, this is a 9/10 game for you. But 
 if you are looking for a new Resident Evil title in African horror world, then all your fears have 
 probably come true. RE4 kicked the hell outta European horror environment, but not RE5 at all. 
 RE4 as well did an Awesome twist in may be all videogame concepts. but RE5 did just a relatively 
 fair one, which is the partnership feature. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NorkNUt
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 3:06 am PT
Review:  Ill start off by saying that this game has an awsome story that will suck you in, and never let 
 go. This games story is so addictive that u'll find yoursself playing it multiple times. The Co-op 
 even adds on for more fun, and nothing is better then playin with a friend online or a bud right 
 beside you, it just enriches the whole gaming experience. The mercenaries add-on is really great, 
 and also very addicting ( just like everything else in this game) and is loads of fun. If u are 
 looking for some intense and thoughtful boss fights, then buy this game, because it has one about 
 every chapter. The graphics in this game are some of the best ive seen thus far ( still think MGS4 
 and killzone 2 have better) and the graphics enhance the game. Gameplay is easy to catch onto, 
 and in not very long you will be a pro. Co-op is the way to go on this game, because sheva can 
 be kinda of a problem sometimes, but overall shes still alright. This game is a must buy for anyone 
 that has a system to play it on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: funky_doctor
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 9:56 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game only because my friend was buying it as he wanted to play co-op. Actually, I 
 only bought it because my Gamestop was having a promotion for this game where you trade in 2 used 
 games for RE5 at 20 bucks. So, I have played with quite a few people and I am proud to say that 
 I enjoy this game. It is worth your money. I simply can't wait for the multiplayer. I have already 
 bought Killzone 2 and this and I hope that those games will keep me occupied. The only con I can 
 find for this game is the co-op as one needs to wait for the host to reach a checkpoint to respawn. 
 Thats the only problem. I only bought RE4 for its good reviews and loved it. But, the setting is 
 perfect for an action adventure with a few frights. Just remember this game isn't a horror game. 
 I absolutely hate horror games. I couldn't get through the Darkness as I had many nightmares; I 
 only played about an hour into Bioshock before I was sweating. RE5 is not very scary, just some 
 frights. And a versus multiplayer coming soon! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix_Snake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:34 pm PT
Review:  Resident Evil 5 is a game that will have you hooked on from the first second of playing it. Basically 
 it plays just like Resident Evil 4 but with HD, awe inspiring visuals, and Co op gamplay which 
 is the fundamental aspect of the game. RE5 is just one hell of a game that will have you playing 
 it for hours. The story is one that won't disappoint any fan of the series, as it is really engaging 
 and complex and really is meant for those familiar with the series' overall storyline. Theres also 
 a great amount of replayablity just like in RE4, with a mercenaries mode which can become highly 
 addictive and with DLC coming along it just gives it way more substance than another Resident evil 
 game in the series.
  Overall it's an outstanding title and I highly recommend it to all of those players that like action 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hardvectorman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:15 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game even with drop back in time I mean the old control lay out. I think the 
 series is ready for a gears of war kinda lay out. In this day and time of modern game the series 
 should leap frog ahead. It gets just a little frustrate-ing when the A I is not much help to you 
 at all. The inventory system in this day and time is just a little out of date plus now when access 
 the it the game roll rite on and most time you die just when you make the upgrade.
  You still can move very well when you are trying to shoot and there should have been a dodge button. 
 now don't get me wrong i think this game is very with a lot of replay value I just think it could 
 have move forward a lot more than it did.
  Some are talking about the killing of Black People i don't see it that way I am a person of color 
 and I did not feel pick on. The graphics are some of the best I have seen on the PS3 in quite a 
 time now. Overall it a great game just be be prepare to get a little upset if you playing alone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzik_mafia
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  *Press square to straight punch*
  That right there got me interested in the game. I downloaded the demo, and played the hell out 
 of it.
  It was fun, and having never played a Resident Evil game before, I decided to check it out. 
 
  
  The first hour is like Metal Gear Solid 4's. Lots of cutscenes, bits of action, and filling you 
 in on story. 
  
  This is NOT a horror game, but lots of survival. There's a sense of dread persistant, enemies fun 
 to fight (DOGS!!!!!!!!) and the graphics I find in the league of Killzone 2. Plus melees are SO 
 satisfying. The action is constantly varied, and Sheva is not a nuisance, 90% of the time. That 
 other 10% is spent trying to get her out of the way, and getting out of her way, and waiting for 
 her to hurry up. 
  
  Music really fits the bill, making your heart race and pound when it's supposed to.
  
  Gameplay 
 works, stop whining about not being able to shoot and walk. You're supposed to feel helpless. The 
 inventory however is pretty poor, as you can't make important things set to the D pad.
  
  I have yet to play all the modes, but it seems like the kind of game you'll want to play immediatley 
 after, if you have nothing else. I however have Killzone, so will likely finish and return. For 
 those without internet on your PS3, get this. If you have internet, rent it, or buy, do everything, 
 and return. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  With Resident Evil 4 being one of the best games in the series and with a lot of gamers excited 
 about Resident Evil 5 since day 1 back in 2006-2007 at least. A lot of people thought that Resident 
 Evil 5 was going to be great on next gen consoles; well you are sort of right and wrong.
  
  Fans of the series will know what I'm talking about with the main story. But for new comers story 
 isn't that amazing mostly funny at certain parts of the game. Ten years after the destruction of 
 Raccoon City, former S. T. A. R. S. Alpha team member Chris Redfield is an agent of the B. S. A. A. This 
 paramilitary anti-bio-organic weapon organization travels the globe to seek out and destroy Umbrella's 
 creations, which have fallen into the hands of terrorists following the collapse of the multinational 
 pharmaceutical company. When Chris gets a tip that a known weapons dealer will be making a big 
 deal in the remote African nation of Kijuju, he heads there to put a stop to it and learn what 
 he can about the mysterious doomsday project known only as Uroboros. Chris is joined by Sheva Alomar, 
 a local B. S. A. A. agent, and together they battle wave after wave of infected villagers, horribly 
 mutated monsters, and even series archnemesis Albert Wesker.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played through Resident Evil 4 either on Cube or PS2. It's the same 3rd person 
 controls you can easily aim for enemies in the head unlike on the old Resident Evil games where 
 you can't shoot most of the zombies in the head. Also returning to Resident Evil 5 is re-action 
 commands which you have probably seen on other games where you might have to dodge attacks by pressing 
 a random from enemies or certain cutscenes you'll really need to keep your eyes open because you 
 may never know what is going to happen next. The whole point on Resident Evil 5 is teamwork where 
 you have to watch your partner Sheva but having a partner can help you blast your way through over 
 20-30 enemies all at once. There will be times where your partner will be in trouble or badly hurt 
 so you'll have to help your partner get back on there feet or get enemies of there backs. Through 
 out Resident Evil 5 you can only carry at least 9 items with you and your partner, you can't upgrade 
 it to carry more weapons and items but you will need to have to choose what you're going to take 
 or what to pick up.
  At the end of each chapter or if you die you to the can buy or organize items or weapons but you 
 can also upgrade your weapons as well before going to what it is you were going to do before you 
 died or going on to the next chapter or before taking out a boss. But the bad news is that the 
 Merchant from Resident Evil 4 does not appear in Resident Evil 5 where a lot of people found him 
 as everyone's favourite character in the series.
  
  There is online Co-Operative where you can play with a friend online or offline. Players can join 
 in on a free-for-all or invite-only basis if your game session is set up to allow this from the 
 get-go. But these conveniences, there are some frustrating hurdles that need to be leaped over 
 before a partner can begin playing. Co-op isn't drop-in, so if someone joins, gameplay is interrupted 
 and immersion is broken to some degree. You can't trade items or weapons with your friends like 
 giving your friend an upgradeable weapon or mixed herbs.
  
  Graphics and Sounds: With Capcom putting a Resident Evil game on next gen consoles the graphics 
 for Resident Evil are really impressive set in Africa. But there is more action then to a Horror 
 game meaning that there isn't much blood, gore and scariness which unlike the old Resident Evil 
 games which ever you played them on that gave you nightmares at least at parts of the game. But 
 there are a lot of detailed environments in every way like the beginning you start in an African 
 town, then moving onto the mines and deserts of Africa and then blast your enemies in a factory 
 facility. But most places in Resident Evil 5 are not scary or creepy there no dark places or certain 
 areas of the game where if certain enemies cans from the dark and scares you or if your opening 
 a door a killer dog tries and attacks you. Great voice acting from most of the charcters, including 
 the enemies which they do sound the same as the gonardos (the villagers in Resident Evil 4) . Some 
 enemies return from Resident Evil at there best you have to take out a people who are carrying 
 a chainsaw. Most enemies return from the last game including the Lickers from Resident Evil 2 which 
 most gamers will still remember.
  Music is pretty tense making you feel on the edge of your seat with thrills and chill with a lot 
 action. 
  
  Overall: It may not be the best Resident Evil game. Fans of the series will feel disappointed where 
 some fans thought that zombies were going to return unlike Resident Evil 4 where some people were 
 annoyed that there weren't any zombies. But with the story set in Africa I thought there would 
 be flesh eating animals like an Elephant/Monster type where it grabs you with its elephant trunk 
 and eats in half or flesh eating monkeys you into shreds if you're near them. Beating Campaign 
 mode can take you over then 12 hours pending what difficulty you want it on. There a lot of things 
 to do after beating Story you can replay the game carrying the weapons you've had before beating 
 the game and there are hidden B. S. A. A. badges scattered throughout most levels to find to unlock 
 new stuff. There is also trophie support if you are want to get all trophies or getting a higher 
 rank on certain chapters. Mercenaries' mode returns again which a mini game where you have to take 
 out as many enemies as you can on certain locations in Resident Evil 5. 
  If you are online on Playstation 3 yes there is a Resident Evil 5 space on Playstation HOME which 
 will soon be full of online users later through out the weeks.
  
  But if you new to the series it's worth picking up but I would highly recommend you playing the 
 old games before playing Resident Evil 5 then you'll probably notice why a lot of people feel down 
 that there any Horror mostly action. But however has Capcom really lost its taste in Horror? If 
 there is going to be a Resident Evil 6, Capcom should have make it scary like the old games like 
 Resident Evil 2 and 3 but having the gameplay mechanics from Resident Evil 4 then that would be 
 a lot fun and scary for fans or people who are looking for a challenge. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WKK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a review for the Playstation 3 version of Resident Evil 5.
  
  This game has been seriously shut down by some players in forums, and chatlines that I've been 
 around, however, I ignored those insults against this game and decided to buy it anyways, since 
 i'm a huge RE fan.
  
  Firstly, before I begin, I don't mean to disappoint or insult the X360 owners of this game but 
 this game would have been WAY BETTER, if it was exclusive for the PS3, due to its capabilities 
 of having more space on its discs and all, however, since it was for the 360 and PS3, CAPCOM had 
 to sidetrack down to limited specifications due to the 360, however, it is still a good game.
 
  
  Now, onto the review.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  Absolutely gorgeous, however, yet again, could have been better and my reasons are due to the fact 
 that it was a multiplatform game, not an exclusive, if it was exclusive [i. e for the PS3] , it would 
 be been much better and one thing to add, I am not a sony fanboy, I don't rant and argue all day 
 on which console is better, but this is my reason, however, still, CAPCOM manages to pull this 
 one off pretty well.
  
  Gameplay - 9.5/10
  Gameplay is similar to RE 4, however, more beefed up, more melee attacks, and of course, a partner. 
 One thing about the single player campaign is that the AI of your partner, Sheva, is really silly 
 at times, however, most of the time, she does her part such as saving your life, getting ammo, 
 sharing it, and shooting zombies in the head and in general, yet I give this a 9.5 due some issues.
 
  
  Sound/Music - 10/10
  Great sound. The sounds of the guns are awesome, and the music is really great. Personally, I love 
 the mercenaries music, and the rankings music. It is awesome.
  
  Controls - 10/10
  Controls are great too. People have been complaining about the controls, but I don't see why is 
 this a big issue, the controllers are just fine. Are peoples hands shrinking these days or growing? 
 Hmph. However, still, the controls are great, and can come to you very easily.
  
  ONLINE - 10/10
  Online is CO-OP with a friend, in mercenaries or in main campaign mode and just 
 to sum it up. I WILL GUARANTEE, YOU WILL NOT GET BORED. EVER.
  
  Overall, the question remains, should you buy or rent this game? Firstly, don't rent this game, 
 you'll be wasting money because when you rent this game, you'll find out it is good and will buy 
 it, which in the end would sum to 70 bucks, approx. Just take my word for it, BUY THIS GAME, it 
 is one of those games that you need to have on your shelves and don't listen to those hastey people 
 who say this game sucks and those people only judged the demo part of it, however, personally, 
 this game could have been better if it was a PS3 exclusive due to the PS3's capabilities, however, 
 in the end, this title deserves to be on your shelf and it is worth the 60 bucks.
  
  FINAL RANKING: 9.5/10
  Thanks to CAPCOM for a great game, as usual.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dorgfanger
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  I've been a Resident Evil fan since I first picked up a playstation controller and heard the opening 
 line of "Wow... What a mansion!" of Resident Evil 1. Since then, I have played them, enjoyed them, 
 and waited for the next one to come.
  
  So, on March 12, at 11:59 pm, I stood in line for the midnight release of Resident Evil 5. I came 
 back home, and played it.
  
  Now, whether or not it's me as a gamer being spoiled by other titles, or me just maturing, something 
 was wrong with 5.
  
  Graphically, it's amazing. It's a beautiful, it's realistic, and it's a breath of fresh air for 
 the series, which seems perpetually bogged down in dark environments and depressing lighting.
 
  
  Controls are, more or less, the same as 4 : Simple and good. They've made your inventory significantly 
 smaller, but it makes it more intense, and it makes you think before just grabbing things.
  
  The story is where the trouble is. Now, 13 years ago, the story was simple : Bad pharmaceutical 
 company makes bad virus, releases it, and bad things happen to good people. Simple and straightforward. 
 As we've progressed, Umbrella Pharmaceuticals apparently became even worse, destroying cities, 
 making secret bases, etc. Basically, look up Cobra Commander from G. I. Joe, and you know Umbrella's 
 rap sheet.
  
  Fast forward to Resident Evil 4. Umbrella is brought down, and the world is safe again... Or not. 
 Now, with as few spoilers as possible, I'll explain. In 4, there's a new virus that makes better 
 zombies, and you bring it down. Only you didn't. So now, in 5, you have to deal with the virus, 
 and all hell breaks loose... again.
  
  The story is so unbelievably fumbled, you'll be amazed that you don't get cancer from how bad it 
 is. It sucks. And that's from a fan of the series. From cutscene to cutscene, it gets more and 
 more diluted to the point where your motivation to continue goes from stopping bio terrorism to 
 finding a lost partner, to saving the world, to saving partner.... Put it simply : Don't dwell on 
 the story.
  
  The game stands on it's own as fun and action packed, with terrific cinematography in the cutscenes 
 to amazing detail in the world, from your weapons to the people you're killing.
  
  I give it a 9 out of 10, simply for the gameplay. If this were an RPG, I would rank it at a 0.5 
 out of 10. The story is just outlandish and downright stupid at times.
  
  Resident Evil 5 is a good action game, but for those not already fans of the series, you may simply 
 want to ignore the story and just play. For fans, just remember the good old days of scary storytelling 
 involved, and you'll be fine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nickour95
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 11:10 am PT
Review:  Well, we have been waiting for it for a long time now and it's finally here! Resi is back with 
 a new control system and story with old and new characters!
  
  I haven't played any other Resi so I don't know the old control system. Well, let's say the story 
 now: the game starts with Chris Redfield goes to Africa in an imaginative town named Kijuju. There 
 he mets Sheva and together they're fighting against a pharmacy company that turns out to sell bioterrorism 
 weapons to terrorists.
  
  Another thing is the inventory menu. The game doesn't pause like in Resi 4. So you must be quick. 
 Also, online co-op match is perfect but only when the other player co-operates. The game has very 
 good visuals and animations. Sound is perfect too. There are many weapons and ammo types.
  
  There are only two bad things in the game. The AI of Sheva in Single Player and the fact that 
 you can't exchange weapons with you partner in Online Co-op. Sheva will shoot you if you're in 
 front of her and not the enemies which means she wastes ammo.
  
  Only these two problems prevent the game from taking a 10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  I have been a resident evil fan since the dawn of time (when I was like 10 years old) . I have long 
 awaited for this beautiful sequel since it was announced like 2 years ago or something. Finally, 
 it turned out more than I expected !! 2 players ??! screwed up zombie people riding bikes evil 
 knievel style, dogs splitting in half !! there are moments where you'll go WHAT THE EFF !!!
  
  Graphics:
  Its beautiful, amazing environment and characters look very detailed. Blood is 
 insane in the membrane !! slight frame rate problems on the bottom of the screen every like an 
 hour of game play, hard to notice.
  
  Game Play:
  Exact as RE4 with the extra for multi-player. An example would be the communication button where 
 you call your partner, say thanks or nice shot ! Also slight difference in the style of switching 
 your guns which you will get used to in a while.
  
  Story:
  Its resident evil ... why even bother ??
  
  Multi player:
  Now this I have a lot to talk 
 about, but I am just gonna keep it brief. Its hard at first,, the screen splits horizontally and 
 the sides of the screen is black. For some reason Sheva cannot buy items, only Chris. Armor counts 
 as a box out of your inventory !!! Did not expect that !! But still its fun to see you can play 
 with game with someone because you really cannot beat this game alone with a dumb AI !!! Also recently 
 I found out that once you heal your partner, your heal yourself at the same time. Weird huh ?!
 
  
  PS: If one partner ever runs out of bullets !! just let them run around the enemies while the other 
 shoots them ! it helps !! trust me !!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: killip
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  Lets get something straight before i start this review. This installment of resident evil had alot 
 to live upto since 4 was a near perfect action/horror game. Has it beat it? no. Is it good? yes. 
 You return and play as Chris Redfield the original Alpha male of the resi series. Set a couple 
 of years after the events of Leons adventure in 4. You go out to africa to see about a tip off 
 on a new virus, You end up being caught up in a mess (as with any resi game) . The twist?, you've 
 got a partner helping you out.
  And here is the problem that kicks off. I've only completed it on single player so far so i haven't 
 done co op yet, but to say that Sheva is a pain in the ass is abit of an understatment. After getting 
 half way threw the game her antics become second nature but when you first start off and you low 
 on ammo and health items you start seeing red as she burns threw you ammo like a blow tourch threw 
 butter and when you get a slight graze on your health she uses a health spray!. Theres also the 
 fact that when your on a boss battle (and most of the bosses require tactics) all tactical appraching 
 has been thrown out the window as she minces round like a bull in the china shop.
  The other problem is that this game just hasn't taken any risks that 4 did and that its almost 
 identical to it. All enemies look and act the same, i wont say what the enemies are because i dont 
 want to ruin it for you, but you'll see what im saying as you go threw it. Even most of the set 
 pieces are the same.
  Now lets move onto the many plus sides. This game looks beyond amazing, lighting is second to none 
 gore and characters and backgrounds are stunning. The massive amount of Weapons on offer is great 
 and the upgrading is back as well.
  The story is really good with Wesker back with his old bag of tricks and its good to see Chris 
 and Wesker finally fight it out. while the story is very pridictable it doesn't stop it from being 
 a great story.
  
  Graphics: This really is a top dog for graphics its one of the best looking games out there.
 
  
  Sound: This is prob the first resi game with good dialogue. Sound fx are amazing as always.
  
 
  Gameplay: Just the same as resi 4 with the co op added and a few extra weapons.
  
  **** Box: Controls take a while to get used to, no risk taken making the game just the same as 
 4, No merchant : (, Alot shorter than resi 4.
  
  Overall: Dispite a few minor niggles this is an amazing game, Its a walk back threw unsettled storylines 
 and this is going to be one of the top action essentials of the year. Buy it and enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_1486
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  Resident evil 5 is to be the final in the series where numbers are concerned. It all takes place 
 in Africa. The new partner is Sheva and when you are playing with the A. I. it can be kinda tough 
 because it won't do what you want it to do most of the time. Bring in a friend and you will have 
 a lot of fun but you might get a bit frustrated at times. The game is visually stunning and the 
 music is great at setting the mood. The bosses are big and can be hard but once you find the right 
 way to fight them everything will be good. Once the game has been completed you unlock mercenaries 
 mode and the game will let you use Sheva in the main game. The plot is finally summed up and it's 
 summed up nicely. You get to find out the origin of the progenitor virus which started it all. 
 The only problem that was found was that one thing popped up that made my jaw drop and then they 
 didn't explain anything about it, which leads to perhaps a movie going to be made so that that 
 part might get found out. All in all the game is great and all Resident evil fans have to get.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jinjiboo
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 6:43 am PT
Review:  I know a lot of people are complaining or worried about the lack of "Zombies" or Horror....
  
  The Original Resident Evil was of course set in the mansion of the arklay mountains.
  
 
  This was a period of time where Umbrella's activities were unknown to the world... And would be 
 spooky, due to the surroundings and the lack of Teammates.
  
  However, just because Zombies have been replaced my Majinji isnt a bad thing... Its just different. 
 It will suit some people and disappoint some others. However, i have been a fan of Resident Evil 
 since 2001 when i first got off my butt and played Nemesis.
  
  RE5 just enters a new time period... Where BOW's are now high profile and stuff....
  
  I wont 
 baffle you with more long words and comparisons. 
  
  RE5 is a new kind of horror, and a new kind of game. It cant stay in Spencers Mansion or Racoon 
 City forever.
  
  So... Either Accept it and enjoy the new style. Or the RE series is over for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:41 am PT
Review:  We've been waiting a while now but the wait was worth it! It is ultimately superior to part 4 on 
 every level and has added more intelligent gameplay as well. From a single player perspective, 
 I've thought of my report in this way:
  
  It is pretty obvious from all the gameplay footage we've been watching, that the visual presentation 
 here is just outstanding. The BEST yet from the Resident Evil franchise. Sound effects are more 
 than amazing and pack quite a punch especially with the weapons.
  
  We are thrown immediately into action with our partner Sheva. This excellent co-operative AI really 
 kicks ass and this alone has added a somewhat interesting tactical approach to the way we used 
 to play this series. You can throw each other over gaps between buildings and send commands for 
 covering and firing. There has been some minor hiccups with, this but nothing that will deter you 
 from the overall experience. It can get quite bottlenecked in some alleyways making small zombie 
 packs push the AI into a bit of confusion but in a way, it kind of makes it a little real.. Inventory 
 handling and item discovery is amazingly well done with optional partner pickups and exchanges.
 
  
  One amazing first hand observation was how nothing felt repetitive as you trudge through the very 
 cleverly set levels with surprises at every corner. You will need an excellent pair of underpants 
 to comfort you during your exploration through the very much feared and darker areas of the game..
 
  
  There are many variants of villanous and terryfying foes which has simply made this game the coolest 
 and dirtiest horror adventure game to this day..
  
  In a quick wrap up, I refuse to say any more ;) ) ) 
  
  If you are not familiar with Resident 
 Evil, then get ready to experience something that is just simply awesome to say the least. Horror 
 is the name of the game here. Be sure of that!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  RE4 is probably my 2nd favorite game of all time. The first is Metroid Prime only by a hair. So 
 anyway, RE5 has finally arrived, and capcom has taken a if it ain't broken don't fix it approach 
 to RE5. Which is a good thing. There are some subtle improvements with movement. The only obvious 
 improvement is graphics of course since is on the next gen consoles or should I say current gen? 
 It doesn't matter. The story takes place somewhere in Bumble**** Africa where the water is as deadly 
 as the T-virus itself without the whole walking while your dead thing. (If you have no idea what 
 I'm talking about regarding the last comment look up Ebola virus, hanta or any hemorrhagic fever 
 on wikipedia. It's actually pretty grusome You might learn something. Or rent Outbreak on dvd. 
 I'm sorry I can't help myself.) This comment is for the newbs out there. If your wondering why 
 you can move while shooting like in gears of war, keep this in mind. This game isn't Gears of War. 
 Now that I cleared that up on The sound is great and that is it. What makes this game really tense 
 is the new inventory system. In previous RE games, you had to pause the action to access I only 
 played up to stage 1-3 and I'm liking what I'm seeing so far. From what I heard ther game is kind 
 of short so I'll play it on hard after the 2nd chapter on normal. I'll edit my review when I'm 
 done the game. This actually makes me want to buy RE4 again.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 1:34 am PT
Review:  sooo.... sweeeeet BioHazard 5 (PS3) - 319,000
  dont miss with sony
  hahaha....... BioHazard 5 (X360) - 79,000
  
  
  If you've played Resident Evil 4 (on Gamecube, 
 PS2 or Wii) you know all the changes the series took. And while e all (myself included) loved Resident 
 Evil 4, people began calling RE5 a "shinier, HD version of RE4". And while I used to scoff at that 
 assumption, it's terrifingly true.
  
  Virtually the same controls, same camera system and the laser for vision is back (which is still 
 great) . Now, while what RE4 implemented was great, Resident Evil 5 just doesn't expand on it at 
 all. Everything that was fresh, is now kind of stale, which disappoints me greatly.
  
  If you've never played RE4 then you will surely be amazed by the game and probably love it and 
 have no idea how some will be unhappy with the outcome. But if you've played RE4 and aren't completely 
 suckered into what capcom gives you, ypu'll see the flaws for what they are.
  
  Without gving too much away, within the first hour it was painful to see how reminiscent RE5 was 
 of RE4. From layout designs to what enemies do and what they use as weapons, it all feels old. 
 And while having dozens and dozens of enemies running at you is frightening, the game has certainly 
 removed its name from the "survival horror" genre.
  Now, that's fine, but then get rid of the "survival horror" mechanics that the series has had. 
 I understand they (Capcom) wants some things to feel the same and make people feel at home, but 
 you can't have an action game if there is rarely a cover mechanic and I can't shoot and run at 
 the same time.
  
  Add in some cheap rip offs stolen from Dead Space (inventory screen not pausing the game) and you 
 have a cluttered, recycled mess. The new polish is nice (although what everyone said it looked 
 I was slightly unimpressed) and all, but the end product is what I've played years ago. And for 
 $60 that's unacceptable.
  
  There'll definitely be worse games made, but Resident Evil 5 feels (and plays) like Capcom was 
 busy with other things and just rehashed RE4. And that's exremely sad for everyone who was looking 
 forward to this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigellae
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:17 pm PT
Review:  right of the start re5 disappointed me, why? simple, the graphics werent up to date. it was nice, 
 shiney, too much of crap and little of detail. in the game when the angle zooms in you see everything 
 and its not all its cracked up to be, the environment is so undetailed, honestly i felt like i 
 was playing the old systems lol ok thats too much but for instance chris's muscles were bigger 
 then his head, and the appearance of the characters werent at all realistic, honestly look at the 
 details from metal gear solid, now those guys made sure that they did their job right, other then 
 that the game is very similar to the last one really didnt keep my attention, sorry just wasnt 
 as fun as it used to be, they took out the mystery, the fear, the puzzles, all for a simple 3rd 
 person shooter, just wasnt all it was cracked up to be honestly 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 2:54 pm PT
Review:  If you have an itchy trigger finger ready to pull on some monsters en masse, then RE5 is your best 
 bet!
  
  CONTROLS: It's archaic compared to other action titles out there. Its a rough marriage b/t the 
 old RE while still trying to Westernize to modern hits. However, as old as they seem, it works 
 perfectly with the pace of the game. It brings about tension & fear w/o the technical fustrations
 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gunplay is exactly the same as RE4, so if you still dig it, then buy this now! 
 
  The puzzles are easy to figure out. Having Sheva around is great... but only if she's controlled 
 by someone else and not the A. I. The only thing is that because she's in the game, it completely 
 ruins the feeling of "isolation" that RE5 producers were trying to emphasize. Plus, the fact that 
 your inventory consists of nine items to hold, you'll be using Sheva more as a packing mule than 
 as a great side kick if you play single player. Plus, she says the most obvious & annoying things 
 ever ("I have a bad feeling about this..." is just one of many horrible sayings to come) . 
  
  STORY: Suprisingly, their are a few moments were the acting isn't cliched or B-movie influenced 
 (in other words, its actually emotional to watch) . Otherwise, it's still the same, "they're infected, 
 they're attaching, we kill them" sorta plotline.
  
  REPLAY: With the online partner, bonus modes (MERCENARIES!!) , figurines, documents etc. to collect, 
 it's great to see an action title with so much depth of discovering little goodies! 
  
  GRAPHICS/SOUND: Do I really need to go there? Look at the screenshots & watch the trailers, they 
 speak for themselves... OK, it's f***ing beautiful
  
  As much as I love this game, the fact that its failry short and that Sheva seems more like a throw-in 
 to the game than an important asset to the franchise really hurts RE5. Plus, the game doesn't even 
 feel like its Resident Evil... again, no zombies, its in broad daylight, no feeling of isolation 
 or desperation to conserve items. This game, while its great, proves that Capcom needs to bring 
 the franchise back to its roots. 
  The next Resident Evil game should bring back returning favorites such as Claire Redfield or Rebecca 
 Chambers/Billy Cohen, bring back the zombies (but make them a smarter version of the Las Plagas) , 
 bring back the nightime close atmosphere etc. However, make an online mode that's very much like 
 RE5, keep the control scheme (except don't make them have to press the x button to run, make it 
 tilt sensitive) , and keep the upgradable weapons... otherwise, I'm still looking foward to RE6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilsanta23
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:51 pm PT
Review:  I have too say right off the bat. I played Resident Evil 4 too death. And again. And again. So 
 that may be the reason why I didn't get very interested with RE 5.
  
  Graphics: Resident Evil 4 still looks great to this day. Just imagine how long until Resident Evil 
 5 looks bad. The game is stunning. It's a treat for the eyes. The way liquid pours around you, 
 the way sun shines exactly where it should, and the way Chris Redfield's ridiculous muscles look. 
 
  
  Sound: The sound is amazing. Sure some of the voices are a bit off at times and the lines can be 
 cheesy but the way the enemies scream running at you or the way they groan and scream in agony 
 once you shoot/punch/kick them.
  
  Game play: Be warned. If you love too run and gun STAY AWAY FROM THIS GAME. The moment you aim 
 you come to a halt. But Capcom has found a way too over come this as they did in RE4. The enemies 
 aren't the slow moving zombies of the past. (Yes yes I do know they aren't zombies) They will run, 
 climb and jump through every environment too get too you. The way Capcom has overcome the fast 
 moving enemies is they stop right before they reach you. Sure it's a bit unrealistic but without 
 it you would die a lot more than you would normally. Now onto the bad part of the game play. As 
 I said I played RE4 too much. And playing RE5 I feel like I'm playing it all over again just re 
 skinned. Sure it's not really a bad thing but I just can't really enjoy it too much. That's what 
 made me give this game a 7/10 insted of 9.5/10.
  
  Difficulty: The game is not difficult at all on normal. On the hardest difficulty it spikes way 
 up. Me and a friend killed the games first boss within a minute. We kept saying "Ok it's going 
 to come back right when we go through that door." But no. It didn't. So i suggest you play on the 
 highest difficulty if your not new too games.
  
  Replayability: Once you finish you get the exellent Mercs mode. You fight too survive with only 
 a horde of enemies and a clock too distract you. Also you can play the whole game again as Sheva 
 but that barely changes the game. The best way too play though is with a friend or someone online. 
 It really brings out the best of the game. If i's just you and the AI partner use her/him as a 
 pack mule.
  
  AI: The character AI is not the greatest for your buddy. They waste ammo on nothing and heal you 
 when you don't need it. But they still protect you and are good shots. Now the enemy AI is great. 
 They flank you, climb up too you and everything else that you could think of thats possible.
  
  Overall the game is great if you didn't play RE4 too death. But if you loved RE4 get this game. 
 It's great but I just can't love it as much as I would like. 
  
  Score:
  Graphics 9/10
  Sound 8/10
  Replayability 7/10 
  AI 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedMageNeko
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I should clarify one thing before I begin this review. While I'm a huge fan of the Resident Evil 
 storyline and the chills its always managed to give me, Resident Evil 4 was the only game in the 
 series I really enjoyed prior to this. So, the rather huge departure from the Zombie filled Arklay 
 Mansion to the african villages of Kijuju does not bother me as much as other players.
  
  Still, if your looking for the puzzle solving and far more ammo conservative Resident Evil's that 
 were this games big brother or if you did not like Resident Evil 4, you probably will not like 
 this latest entry in the saga. Still, it is a worthy addition to the series and I will try to explain 
 why.
  
  ( (**) )
  
  Resident Evil 5 takes place a few months after they events of Resident Evil 4, now known as the 
 Ganado incident. Former STARS pointman Chris Redfield, survivor of both the Arklay Mansion and 
 Antartica Incidents of Resident Evil and Resident Evil: Code Veronica, is now a member of the BSAA 
 (Bioterroism Security and Assesment Alliance) and investigating rumors of a bioweapons deal about 
 to go down in the fictional African country of Kijuju. Aided by local BSAA Agent Sheva Alomar, 
 he finds that the situation is far more then a simple arms deal.
  
  Combat is far more action game then survival horror, but still provides numerous instances of chills 
 running up your spine, such as watching a massivly muscled man with a massive axe smashing through 
 a wall to come after you or watching a giant near identical to the El Gigante from RE4 wearing 
 a belt of human bodies smashing aside a hummer like a childs toy.
  
  Ammo conservation is an issue that is both something that will press on you and yet is not as all 
 consuming as in the earlier games. While you will run dangerously low on shells from time to time, 
 particularly for weapons like your shotgun or rifle, you won't find yourself worrying to often 
 about running completly out of ammo, so long as you keep the Machine Gun or Handgun with you as 
 backup.
  
  The most common foe you'll face in your savanah hoping adventure, the Majini, comes in various 
 shapes and sizes, from the somewhat normal looking City Majini to the deranged, chainsaw totting, 
 bag faced and incredibly durable Chainsaw Majini and spear totting Swamp Majini. And while every 
 enemy doesn't look african, particularly in the end game, it still feels a bit ... troubling at 
 times walking through a primitve african stilt village in the swamp and blasting Majini in tribal 
 war paint. But again, its something that's easy to get past.
  
  Bosses are the typical monstrous fare we've grown use to and each relies heavily on cooperation 
 between you and your partner. Which brings up one of the major points of this game.
  
  It is, without a doubt, a co-op game. This was clearly built from the ground up to be played with 
 a second character, but thankfully Sheva's AI, while not perfect, was at least well done. She is 
 a bit trigger happy, but accurate and effective.
  
  My only, largest complaint with the game is its length. After four hours I've already breached 
 the halfway point on the game. It also lacks quite a bit of the mystery of 4th in the series, along 
 with many of the chills.
  
  Is it a good game? Yes. Is it a buy? For fans of the Series, definetly. If your not, a rental. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:59 pm PT
Review:  I love this game and haven't finished it yet. I haven't finished the first level. But if you played 
 the first few games you'll understand the game. A hard game taking a lot of bullets just to kill 
 an "executioner majini" conserving ammo is what you need to do. But with so many fights and so 
 little ammo it makes it harder to win and beat the game playing on normal or higher. Playing single 
 player isn't recommended in my eyes as the person you are playing with has better intelligence 
 than what the CPU AI does with Shila. The game is challenging from the first level when you start 
 shooting in the Public assembly. Capcom did a good job with this game. A few cool things that they 
 DID NOT bring back include yellow herbs, Merchants (you can buy guns and stuff at the end of every 
 level but its not like the merchants that used to hang out once in a while) , and a lot of other 
 things. But other than that capcom did pretty good with the game it gets a 9.5/10 from me. Not 
 very scary but a fun shooter makes it really fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MG_1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Just picked up the game today. So far, I've only gotten up to the second half of the first chapter. 
 I dont want to go through the game too fast. Anyway, so far, its a great game. Graphics are top 
 notch, gameplay is fun, story seems to be pretty interesting. The controls are very easy to get 
 use to. Theres nothing really difficult about them at all. If you played RE4, then you"ll become 
 familiar with them instantly. Unlike the original RE's, theres not much in terms of solving puzzles 
 to advance, but you do have to find keys to doors and do other small pretty simple tasks in order 
 to advance. The game does have some stategy to it. I've been a fan of RE since 96 when you played 
 as Chris Redfield in the mansion. That game, as well as the next 3 RE's were great. Scary as hell, 
 music gave you goosebumps, puzzles really put your mind to work, etc... This game, like RE4, both 
 have a very different theme. These are more action oriented, as opposed to classic survival horror. 
 A die hard RE fan will enjoy this game, but will definetely miss the old RE platform. I do miss 
 the old RE theme, but Im still enjoying this game. If your wondering if it is worth buying, the 
 answer is yes!!!!. Regardless of it not being as fun and scary as the originals, its still a very 
 fun game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pakhair
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I never right reviews but I thought I should make one for it
  
  For the first time in series (Main Versions) the RE game is made by a new producer\Director "Jun 
 Tekuchi"
  
  See whether it's a stellar creation or just another game which destroys the name of RE series
 
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  STORY
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The Last installment in the series took us to Spain but this game loosely ties to that. It's the 
 story of Wesker & Chris in Hype and awaited since original RE 5. The game will keep the RE Veterans 
 wanting for more with Chris, Jill and Wesker's story. The new ones will pick up the story quite 
 easily as the game helps a lot in understanding it but still having a little knowledge of T-Veronica 
 Virus or Las Plagas Parasites is good. The game wrap ups a lot of loose ends from the series and 
 creates some more although the plot has some holes but it Will still keep you entertained . The 
 game's major twist is so obvious that a 6 years old can easily see through it.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  GRAPHICS
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  Graphics of the game are quite stunning and 
 it is one of the best looking game of this generation and you will easily notice dust in air, Light 
 reflecting from every object, the graphics are so clear even standing next to them. The facial 
 animation is some times not right but it is almost right most of the times. The monsters are so 
 brilliant that you want to stop and look at them
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  SOUND DESIGN
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The background score especially in fights really fit 
 the mood and you can never say that it's bad. The voice acting is the best in series until now 
 especially the Wesker, Chris & Excella but for others it is OK but for few it is terrible.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  GAME DESIGN
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The game's main life is 
 Co-Op. In Offline it's a good game but has it's issues. A player can jump in anytime either online 
 or offline. The two players have their own inventory each has 9 slots. You have access to both 
 of the inventories and you will have to maintain both of them because AI lacks the ability to maintain 
 their Inventory slots but while playing in co-op the tension removes away but then the tension 
 will be to carefully divide the weapons with other player which makes up the stress. The weapons 
 are upgraded in shop with gold coins which can be obtained by destroying crates or killing enemies, 
 The shop can be accessed after each chapter or after continue,
  
  The Gameplay is simply linear and gives no choices at all your objective will be clearly mentioned 
 on map. The Botton tapping sequences make a return in RE 5 and this time they are easy at start 
 and tougher near end.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  GAMEPLAY
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  A lot of people think that RE should be gunning while running kind of stuff. I completely disagree 
 with that because standing still while shooting builds the intensity and tension [and that's the 
 only thing left of survival in RE Franchise] . The Enemies AI this time is quite good because they 
 are not zombies and will dodge, attack, run and act as intelligent humans. When a horde of enemies 
 are near you or you are fighting mini bosses your main strategy will be to run away, turn around 
 and shoot again and again because only a few of enemies can match Chris or Sheva's speed, It might 
 seem as boring but is extremely great because it builds up the tension. The button tapping sequences 
 are back and later in the game they can become quite hard. Later in the game you will face locations 
 where you will have to press a button and the player will go in cover behind that object, this 
 is pretty good and provides a lot of fun but this makes me think why the cover system wasn't implemented 
 in the whole game.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  PRESENTATION
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  The game can be played in two different ways Alone and in Co-Op.
  
  As I said before this 
 game is meant to be played in Co-op with other players because you both will have to fight right, 
 cover other, the timing of melee attacks should be perfect and the button pressing should be perfect, 
 Ones mistake can cause the other and that's the true feeling of RE 5.
  While offline Sheva is frustrating because she will spread all of the ammo and if you are even 
 in caution state she will use a healing item, she can't arrange his Inventory so most of your time 
 will be spent managing both inventories, You can give her two commands but that will not help at 
 all although she is a good example of AI because she is good at shooting and she Will always protect 
 you in need but Human Intelligence is Humans Intelligence it can't be compared to AI.
  
  The boss fights are stunning but there is only one simple strategy to shoot and the puzzle solving 
 boss fights are no more, Most of your time will be spent shooting the infected. The game-play is 
 easy to pic up and master. Now days you will See mounted guns and turrets in almost every second 
 action game so they are not wholly groundbreaking stuff but the important thing is timing yes the 
 whole game arranges things so perfectly that you can't leave the game once you start it until you 
 end it because there are no moments in the game which will stop you from playing it and you will 
 always want to know that what lies around next corner.
  
  The action sequences, choreography and camera angles are so perfectly chosen that you will want 
 to see more and more. The graphics and music are stellar. The Puzzles are quite easy and insulting 
 as compared to previous installments the creepy horror feeling has almost gone.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  LASTING APPEAL
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  No doubt this game has 
 a lot in it although it seems that a game without competitive game-play won't have much. Beating 
 the game in various ways unlocks modes and features.
  
  Playing the game online and offline is completely different experience and playing campaign with 
 different Friends provide different kind of fun. The Mercenaries mode is addictive and u can't 
 leave it . Different characters provide different playing experience.
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  ENDING COMMENTS
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  RE 5 is 
 a great game and a must own for 2009 and action fans will love it. If you didn't liked the demo 
 it is possible that you don't like the game because it is a lot like the demo. The game has it's 
 moments and it is a great shooter but IT'S NOT RESIDENT EVIL. Because the scaring, puzzle solving 
 element of the game is replaced with action. Which will gasp a lot of new players but disappoint 
 many of the old ones. I advise you play the game on Highest Difficulty because on normal it ain't 
 any challenge at all and is way too easy.
  
  
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  RATING
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  STORY = 8
  GRAPHICS = 9.5
  SOUND DESIGN = 8.5
  GAME DESIGN = 8.5
  
 GAME-PLAY = 8.5
  PRESENTATION = 9.0
  LASTING APPEAL = 9.0
  
  OVERALL = 9.0
  
  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  MY PERSONAL OPINION
  =\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=
  
  I have ended all of the RE games (0,1,2,3, CV, DA, Outbreak File#1,2,4, UC) and some portables 
 too. I am such a big fan of the series that I have ended most of the games in highest difficulty 
 possible. I have played RE games more than 300 Hrs, Using net about them like posting, uploading, 
 downloading e. t. c and spent almost 100 Hrs in that too. Now you know what I am talking about.
 
  
  I DIDN'T LIKED RE 5 AS A RESIDENT EVIL GAME
  
  It has lost so much in this game the scares, the feeling of being alone, great puzzle solving, 
 boss fights [boss figths in this game are fantastic but plain shooting] , the complex and great 
 story. In an effort to make new fans they have disappointed old ones this is the beginning you 
 will See more people saying the same all over web soon enough. The Story telling is disappointing 
 and the ending is the worst in the series. The new creator "Jun Tekuchi" has failed to met the 
 whereabouts of previous creator "Shinji Mikami". This game will have huge sales figures because 
 as a new IP [which barely relates to resident evil and picks a little of resident evil] it is great 
 and it will please new ones.
  
  I really wanted to love this game but I didn't, I hope the future is better. It could have been 
 so much more,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bestgamer100
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 12:36 pm PT
Review:  After all this waiting, it is finnaly here. I was so happy when i got my hands on that disc. The 
 trailers looked so wicked and the even the game case did too. The rush at the store was unbelievable 
 but at the same time exiting. Enough rambling about the wait adn feelings, lets review the game.
 
  
  Graphics 10/10 ----Superb graphics.
  
  Story 10/10 ----The story really kept you wanting to play because of the suspense.
  
  Gameplay 
 10/10 ----Fantastic controls and excellent setting.
  
  Sound 10/10 ----Couldn't have been better and contributed alot to the suspense.
  
  I strongly 
 reccomend you play this game. With a wide variety of trophies available, this game will keep you 
 playing for weeks to even months. Good gaming friends! 
  
  *NOTE* I recommend that you play on an HD TV because it will definately make your gaming experience 
 so much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tts42572
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:37 am PT
Review:  Got Resident Evil 5 for the PS3 after anxiously waiting for quite awhile and have to say I'm pleased 
 so far.... and I've only been playing a few hours.
  
  Visuals are amazing, sound is amazing, and while I've only played single-player so far, the co-op 
 is something that I'm looknig forward to trying.
  
  I'll admit I was never really into the Resident Evil games much until RE4 came along and this game 
 does seem to build on RE4. Maybe it's not quite as scary.... but I think that has alot to do with 
 games like this just becoming more commonplace now so it just doesn't seem as scary to us. However, 
 my daughter and wife were watching RE5 and they sure thought it looked pretty scary....
  
  I can understand a bit how those looknig for a vintage survival-horror game might be a little let 
 down.... but I really think Capcom would've been going backwards if they tried to make another game 
 like the original RE. I was looking mainly for an extension of RE4 and I think this game is a logical 
 progression.
  
  Overall, the game really just seems to have what I was looking for and I'm pleased with it. Great 
 visuals, sound and I like the overall tempo of the game. If you are looking for something different 
 than RE4... well, maybe you should stay away. But if you enjoyed that game and want more, then RE 
 5 should satisfy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:54 am PT
Review:  Hey! So i got the game today and ive been playing for a little over an hour now. I've passed a 
 few set pieces and a boss and got a grasp of the controls so thought i'd post a short review of 
 what i thought so far.
  
  As an absolute lover of the Resident Evil series i was always going to get this game, but was slightly 
 dissapointed from what i had seen prior to getting Resident Evil 5. The engine looked EXACTLY the 
 same as 4, and whilst Re4 was an amazing game... We've moved on many years and a console generation 
 since then. I would've liked a change on that.
  
  The game jumps you straight into Africa as Chris Redfield with a new partner as you both are under 
 operation trying to cover the T-Virus stolen by terrorists (hmm.. simple enough) . Nothing much has 
 been given away, except the facts that the virus seems very similar to the Las Plagas seen in Re4 
 (the enemies run at you instead of slowly shambling) . I think this all personally though is a cheap 
 excuse due to the fact that they used the same engine from Re4. I can imagine this plot unwinding 
 with a few old characters and some really cool twists, so i'm looking forward to that.
  
  The main worry i had with this game were the controls. I HATED the controls in the demo; moving 
 around was incredibly frustrating and the shuffling of buttons to share inventory in real time 
 was a pain in the arse. Maybe i was used to the old gamecube controls? Perhaps, but i was not liking 
 it at all. Now i've had a chance to really play with the controls in the finished version, it all 
 seems much tighter. Movement seems a lot faster and i adapted to the inventory sharing quite quickly 
 (even though i hate it being in real time!) . I think though there will need to be a complete change 
 of engine and controls in the inevitable Resident Evil 6, as i think most players will agree.
 
  
  One of the main differences to Re5 is the co-op. Instead of running around trying to protect Ashley, 
 this new lady can take care of herself; and she'll need to as the co-operation of both of you during 
 battle is vital. During gameplay you can bring up both your inventory windows and exchange herbs 
 and ammo in order to help eachother out. This is all fine and well and brings a tactical element 
 to the game, but the fact that you can only exchange ALL ammo always seems to leave one person 
 short on lead. The good thing with co-op though is that if you're low on health she'll throw you 
 a herb, and if you're being attacked by an enemy she'll try and free you from their grasp. That, 
 i like a lot. I won't give anything away, but in boss battles the element of teamwork is vital. 
 The other good feature to this is that the co-op is also online (which i haven't had the chance 
 to play yet!)
  
  Graphically, this game is very impressive. Lighting is wonderful and character models have been 
 well designed, showing highly realistic movements and facical expressions. This also is the case 
 with enemies, although often you'll see the same enemy models, and very limited movements when 
 they get shot.
  
  Upon playing this game though, i noticed one vital element that they've missed from Resident Evil 
 5; Horror. This game just isn't scary anymore. Where'st Re4's main horror element was giving you 
 the feeling that you just always aren't safe.. i just don't feel it in Re5. There's still the moments 
 now and then where you'll jump out of your chair as someone grabs you as soon as you turn a corner 
 but the game overall so far just feels like an Action Shooter. Bring back zombies and mansions!
 
  
  So i think this is pretty much my view of the game so far, it's got a lot of Resident Evil elements 
 i like, and also some ones i don't, and also some ones that have been left out altogether (not 
 for the better!) . The gameplay seems vastly improved from the demo and i'm sure the story will 
 keep me hooked until the end. I'm sure Capcom will still leave me very satisfied by the time i 
 complete the game.
  
  But, you'll feel safe when playing this at midnight with the lights off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callsignAPOLLOj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:12 am PT
Review:  You can identify most nit-picky or overly harsh reviews of this game by their mention of Gears 
 of War. There seems to be a direct correlation. The more they mention Gears of War, the more they 
 dislike resident evil 5. I read one review from a credible source that mentioned Gears of War 5 
 times in just 2 pages!
  
  That said, this is NOT Gears of War and it never was! All the little game mechanics for cooperative 
 play say this is not Gears. All the moody and subtle game design says this is not Gears. The feeling 
 of openness and that someone is about to hit you from behind says this is NOT Gears! This is not 
 a game that forces you to hide behind a wall for 50% of your playtime. Item collection and upgrading 
 is also integral to Re5; this is not the case in Gears.
  
  To summarize, if I hear one more comparison of Re5 to Gears I'll turn to my girlfriend playing 
 Sheva and tell her to !@#$% you up! Believe me, she will!
  
  So let us move on and use this as our sanctuary where we can do a fair assessment of Resident Evil 
 5.
  
  Resident Evil 5 adds cooperative gameplay and online gameplay; this is huge! This game is all about 
 cooperative play. If you hear people talking about what it's like to play with the AI close your 
 ears. This game isn't meant to be played alone. It's your own fault if you can't find one person 
 to play with, not the game's. Seriously, play this game with another human being as it was meant 
 to be played.
  
  Resident Evil 4 was one of the best games of all time and Re5 is a fantastic sequel. Re5 doesn't 
 have many of the corny or endearing characters and things that 4 did; the merchant comes to mind. 
 However, the spirit of cooperation and partnership between Chris and Sheva is far more endearing 
 than Ashley's repetitive "Heeeeey Leooooon HEEEEELLPP!"
  
  Re5 has almost unanimously hailed graphics so I give their graphics 5/5. Re5 has tons of unlockable 
 content and online play + co-op will get you a huge amount of value. Not to mention, it appears 
 that some groundbreaking DLC is in the works for this title. Value gets a 5/5. Sound also gets 
 a 5/5 because it never gets in the way and it adds to the experience 95% of the time. Sound effects 
 are crisp and were pulled from controlled recording taken specifically for this game. Voice acting 
 is also very good. Gameplay gets a 5/5 as well; it was probably tempting to let you move and shoot 
 during game development and Capcom was able to avoid that pitfall. The problem with quick turning 
 and strafing is that they remove most of the suspense and make it much harder for enemies to sneak-up 
 on you. Besides, that's why Sheva (played by a friend) is there!
  
  My only quibble is that I wish Re5 had been even longer.
  
  -Callsign 
::::::

::::::
UserName: md-rew
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:10 am PT
Review:  i cannot see why people complain about this game being a bad follow to re4 ????
  
  it have every thing improved starting with the graphics it is the best graphics of all time it 
 even superber than mgs4 .
  
  the game play is what makes this a resident evil game ( no complains ) do not forget that re4 is 
 the mother to all current 3rd person shooters ( gears of war , dead space , ghost recon , etc) so 
 we cannot hate re5 because it stick ( improved and ) with same the formula
  
  the fact is every one with ps3 should go out and get it trust me and see with your own eyes the 
 fear...
  good luck
  
  do not trust the haters and stay true to your self because if you do not play this game you will 
 regret it all your life it is your choice.
  
  i hope that game spot will agree with me on this one...
  what are you waiting go get your copy 
 now . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:30 am PT
Review:  I'm old enough to have played the first Resident Evil that came out for the play station. To date 
 the only Resident Evil that I have not finished is number 3. I dont count the gun games except 
 for Resident Evil the Umbrella Chronicles which is a good game. In order to move forward there 
 are times when thigs must change. Resident Evil is moving forward and that is great for all of 
 us that love the games. Yes the old games hold a special place but time does not stand still for 
 any one or thing. Some gamers hate change and will not like this game for that simple reason and 
 that is sad. Yes the game has changed deal with it! Resident Evil is going to be around for years 
 to come now because of the moves that are being made now. This game looks unbelieveable the environments 
 are breath taken to say the least. I will agree that the a. i. of your partner is not the best, 
 but name me two games that have great a. i. parrtners! Thats life sad but true. Just play the game 
 and keep a open mind Racoon city is gone! We all miss it but let the past go and lets try to move 
 forward and enjoy R. E. 5. We can always play our old games but it is a new day! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: re01234crusader
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  Story:
  
  Embark on a tale that begins with finding an elusive black market weapons dealer, and get tangled 
 up in the mess of the viral world all over again. This title bridges the jigsaw pieces that you 
 gathered up in the old games, and if you haven 't gotten those pieces, CAPCOM hands it to you through 
 cutscenes and dialogue. Though nothing at the end hints a sequel, that's what happened with the 
 previous titles, and you know that there are loose ends that aren't tied up yet. Wesker children? 
 Interesting ...
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The gameplay is perfect in every way ... as long as you have a trusted partner. Luckily, I've my 
 brother Scotty so we're in the clear. The inventory will in many ways remind you of the old Resident 
 Evil's. As will the weapons and the limited ammo. And the new co-op system is perfect in every 
 way. With this combo, you need to think tactics against your enemies. For example, you are being 
 chased by a pack of dogs and a group of Majini. One tactic is to find higher ground so you can 
 pick off the Majini and THEN take care of the dogs. And for bosses, you have to work together. 
 One might have to lure the boss to a certain dangerous point, then run, while the other accesses 
 the controls to destroy the boss. This proves to be a worthy challenge for all gamers, and you 
 can drink it all in, for you old fans, and get more than satisfied.
  
  Graphics:
  
  In short, beautiful and detailed. The lighting effects, realism of dark-to-light, the enemies, 
 the blast of the enemies' heads, down to every last pixel is perfect. It might set a standard for 
 future games to come. You stand under some dripping water, the water will pour on your head and 
 your head will stay wet for a while. If you get injured, blood will stay on your body for a while. 
 CAPCOM has never failed in graphics and the realism in it.
  
  Sound:
  
  The enemies sound great and realistic. You can hear their shouts, footsteps, and the gallop of 
 dogs right down to the drip of the disgusting Uroboros juice from their slimy heads. Sometimes, 
 you have to stop and listen to be aware of enemies up ahead. The music is great - it fits in with 
 the background but never distracts you in a bad way.
  
  Fun:
  
  Blast parasite heads with a shotgun and dodge bloody chainsaws. Intense and breath-taking, you'll 
 see another side of Resident Evil you won't forget. Expect to sweat bullets through the whole month 
 of March.
  
  Replay Value:
  
  High. New unlockables only unlocked through completing various modes and minigames in the game. 
 And you'll want to get all the trophies/achievements as well, so don't be surprised if you find 
 yourself hitting this game twelve years from now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 13, 2009 4:49 am PT
Review:  Resident Evil 4 is one of the only modern masterpieces. It is considered to be the best PS2 and 
 GC game ever (by many) and is also said to be the peak of Capcom, RE and the benchmark of any type 
 of horror game. Basically, when RE4 was releassed, Capcom did everything right. They introduced 
 many new things which made this game a true 'survivol' horror action adventure. 
  
  And when people found out that RE5 will be releasing, there was sky-high excitment everywhere... 
 
  
  They made us wait for four years, and finally, we got RE5. But was it worth the wait? Was it worth 
 the hype? Does it really live up to its highly acclaimed predecessor? Well, read my review deck, 
 and you'll get the answer.
  
  The answer is no. The game will please newcomers to the series but hardocre fans of RE will surely 
 be disappointed. Resident Evil 5 is a very ordinary game. Its just another third person shooter. 
 Everything that we love about RE4 has been removed. Now you can find health packs and ammunation 
 anywhere in the game. There are no zombies, just idiotic infected villagers. And the game just 
 isn't scary anymore. This game doesn't make me pee in my pants the way RE4 did. And the game isn't 
 tough at all. 
  
  There are some things, though, which have been kept from the previous game. You still can't shoot 
 while running. Which means you'll have to stop running and then shoot. 
  
  But the gameplay isn't all that bad. There are certain redeeming qualities. One thing that was 
 my personal favourite was the melee attacks. Shoot two or three times with your handgun at your 
 enemy. The guy will stagger a bit, which gives you time for a melee attack. Go close to the enemy 
 and a button icon pops up. If you press the button with perfet timing, then the main character 
 pulls off a flashy and cool looking move. Even though this thing may not be very original, it is 
 fun to see and do.
  
  The controls, though, feel a bit dated.
  
  The side character of this game, Sheva Alomar isn't, for ocne, unlike the President's Daughter 
 in RE4, irritating. In fact, she's quite helpful. And she has certain tricks up her sleeve that 
 are very helpful.
  
  THe sound of the game is good. It perfectly fits in all the situations. So much so, that you sometimes 
 don't even notice that there's music playing in the background.
  
  The graphics are highly detailed and very beautiful and spectacular to look at. The animation, 
 the lighting, the background are all too cool to be missed. The graphics of this game are one of 
 the best for any game this generation.
  
  So. Ultimately, all of it boils down to this: RE5 is a very ordinary third person shooter. It isn't 
 even horror anymore. The newcomers to the series will be excited by the fast paced action of this 
 game but hardcore fans of the series will be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billyjunxix
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2009 6:21 am PT
Review:  I have my copy of Resident Evil 5 Collector's Edition since March 10 2009. This game surpasses 
 its predecessors in every way and yet I still consider every game in the series as perfect on its 
 own. Don't believe what negative things other reviewer have to say about this game because there 
 is none, this game is well balanced and you'll appreciate every part of this game. If you really 
 are an RE fan then you'll definitely love Resident Evil 5. And never compare this game to RE4 because 
 RE5 is unique enough on its own, this game is completely different on its predecessor because the 
 location of the game is actually a big deal that it differentiate it on RE4 because on other RE 
 games the locations induces depression but here RE5 it is actually lively as is all the places 
 and location you have the feeling that the place is actually alive. Resident Evil 5 was able to 
 move forward without living that "old feeling" behind. The combat in RE5 is a lot better, the melee 
 combat is satisfying and brutal to look at and now in melee there's a chain combo attack that you 
 can perform with your partner. For example: ( Chris: Hook + Sheva: Knee + Chris: Haymaker ) . For 
 every body part you shoot on your enemy there's a different reaction, like when you shoot your 
 enemy's arm he will hold his wound on his arm while stunned and then you can follow up with a melee 
 "hook", and when you shoot their legs and get stunned you can follow up with a "uppercut", and 
 when you go behind your enemy while their stunned you could instant kill them by "breaking their 
 necks" etc. The guns and other weapons in RE5 is the best not because they are unique but because 
 here it is better realize the true power of every gun. This game is a must have whether you are 
 an old fan of the series or a new comer, Resident Evil 5 is a treasure for all gamers. This game 
 is a masterpiece. This game is full of action without losing its roots. RE5 never loses its suspense 
 but the scary moments are lessen not because it's less frightening but because Chris is a strong 
 character. The first time you took control over Chris for sure you'll say "wow" on everything from 
 the graphics, the way the sun shines is just perfect, the camera angle (I love the camera angle 
 on this game) , there's no boring moments on this game (this game is intense) , the enemy movement 
 is just great and the enemies are fast here that will constantly keep you on the edge of your seat. 
 The game is well balanced so you won't feel cheated when the games goes hard because there's always 
 a way to defeat that enemy and the only thing you have to do is find a way or find the right tool 
 to kill that enemy. I like the new inventory on real time and now you can assign up to 4 items 
 on the directional button just like on Dead space. You still can't shoot while moving that means 
 you have to stop every time you aim your gun which is better for the series because I prefer the 
 stop while you aim because this adds tension to the game. This is Resident Evil so if you are a 
 new comer to the series and you don't like the "stop and aim" then just go and play Dead Space 
 because for all the true fan of Resident Evil I know that we have no complaint. Also the new controls 
 is much better, here is the new control scheme:
  
  R1  Attack,
  L1  Aim,
  R2  Map,
  L2  Ready Knife,
  Triangle  Inventory,
  Square  Action,
  Cross  Reload/Run,
 
  Circle  Command
  
  Take note that I only play this game on single player and the A. I. of you're partner is brilliant, 
 Sheva is always there to aid when you're in trouble, she is also a good shot and she know what 
 kind of gun to use on every occasion, like a real person she knows what is better and effective 
 on this situation. And you're A. I. partner is actually better than you on conserving ammunition 
 and that considering that I'm a very good marksman. Your partner will never get in your way. In 
 the game when you equip an accessories like the "melee vest" they will also wear that in the cutscenes, 
 I appreciate simple things like this because you got that feeling that you are also interacting 
 on the cutscenes. I have the collector's edition of Resident Evil 5.
  
  The content of the box is:
  1. Chris Redfield figurine,
  2. Kijuju Necklace,
  3. Tricell 
 messenger bag,
  4. Steel book (includes game and bonus disc) ,
  5. BSAA patch,
  6. Manual
  
  Resident Evil 5 is still best to be played on Playstation 3, you've got that familiarity 
 on the controller when you're holding the dualshock 3 or sixaxis and the loading is actually more 
 faster on the PS3 about 2 seconds in between chapters and the graphics is much clearer with lighting 
 effects more realistic as it illuminate your character and surroundings. But that doesn't mean 
 the x360 version is any less, actually it is almost identical but only on the loading and about 
 a notch on lighting effects and the familiarity of controller that the PS3 surpasses the X360 version 
 of the game. No bias on this, for all those who fortunate enough who have both the X360 and PS3, 
 and if you're a long time fan of RE series pick the PS3 version. Either way the game is great so 
 you'll definitely enjoy this game on whatever console you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  Well what can i say? I'm a RE fan since 1996 but seriously after RE4 was released... RE was never 
 the same as it was before plot wise & that's where this one falls, still playable though.
  
  OK, as for the difficulty many people will find it hard at the 1st time but let me make this 
 short... If you played RE4 & you happen to be a pro (not much of a virtuous player, just above 
 average) then the normal & hard difficulty it won't be nothing annoying unless you play the professional 
 difficulty which there's the only challenging feat featured in this game. I hate to say this but 
 RE5 is more like devil may cry ripoff... if it was on RE4. It has the same effect from DMC4... 
 all flash & hype but not much substance.
  
  I won't give any sort of details from the plot due to the risk of spoilers even though you (YEAH 
 YOU THE READER) might watched every trailer, gameplay videos, pictures & even the live stream of 
 RE5 online co op live gameplay. & about the midnight sale on gamestop of the game i can say freely 
 that this game it wasn't worthy of such thing i mean SF4 deserved a monday midnight sale... & nope, 
 was on sale like any ordinary game but this one got a terrible hype that it is indeed ridiculous 
 but we can't even blame the gamers or the VG stores (despite the fact that a few stores sold this 
 game earlier) ... CAPCOM YOU DID RUINED RE... GREAT EPIC JOB. Man SF4 is definitely epic but this 
 one i'm afraid it will be traded after the 1st of it's release.
  
  I hope Shinji Mikami returns to this projects & actually pull off a decent job, because after RE4... 
 RE is not the same anymore & it is far away from being the greatest RE game ever, seriously forget 
 those hype fans that love every product for the sake of the hype they clearly don't make a single 
 point. & yeah i know i'll get some neg rep but it's expected from... OK i'll avoid some flaming 
 or just a rant against those clueless fanboys.
  
  P. S - LMAO @ gamespot review of this game.. brutal... BRUTAL? WHERE!!! BLOOD WHERE? RE5 lacks some 
 serious blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockatanski
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  We've been waiting a while now but the wait was worth it! It is ultimately superior to part 4 on 
 every level and has added more intelligent gameplay as well. From a single player perspective, 
 I've thought of my report in this way:
  
  It is pretty obvious from all the gameplay footage we've been watching, that the visual presentation 
 here is just outstanding. The BEST yet from the Resident Evil franchise. Sound effects are more 
 than amazing and pack quite a punch especially with the weapons.
  
  We are thrown immediately into action with our partner Sheva. This excellent co-operative AI really 
 kicks ass and this alone has added a somewhat interesting tactical approach to the way we used 
 to play this series. You can throw each other over gaps between buildings and send commands for 
 covering and firing. There has been some minor hiccups with, this but nothing that will deter you 
 from the overall experience. It can get quite bottlenecked in some alleyways making small zombie 
 packs push the AI into a bit of confusion but in a way, it kind of makes it a little real.. Inventory 
 handling and item discovery is amazingly well done with optional partner pickups and exchanges.
 
  
  One amazing first hand observation was how nothing felt repetitive as you trudge through the very 
 cleverly set levels with surprises at every corner. You will need an excellent pair of underpants 
 to comfort you during your exploration through the very much feared and darker areas of the game..
 
  
  There are many variants of villanous and terryfying foes which has simply made this game the coolest 
 and dirtiest horror adventure game to this day..
  
  In a quick wrap up, I refuse to say any more ;) ) ) 
  
  If you are not familiar with Resident 
 Evil, then get ready to experience something that is just simply awesome to say the least. Horror 
 is the name of the game here. Be sure of that!
  
  ;)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kangaox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:33 pm PT
Review:  (for some reason my full review isnt getting though)
  I will keep this brief, its more just a quick on the spot review for people wanting to know is 
 this game worth getting, and the answer is... YES!
  Gameplay is like Resi 4 with the over the shoulder look, tho alot more smoother and refined! Sheva's 
 AI is really good and helps you more then what Ashley did who never knew how to duck 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
