-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Ridge Racer 7
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/ridgeracer7/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great frame rate leads to a fast sense of speed.
 Team-based online racing modes are neat and innovative.
 Car customization and slipstreaming add new depth to the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the game's tracks appeared in Ridge Racer 6.
 Gameplay won't be intuitive to those unfamiliar with the series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 18, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 47 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 1,560 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Genre: Racing
Date: Nov 13, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Ridge Racer 7 introduces some great new additions that make this the most significant update Namco's 
 arcade-style racing series has seen in years. 

  Last year's Ridge Racer 6 marked the first time that a game in the main Ridge Racer series appeared 
 on a non-Sony platform. With Ridge Racer 7, the series is back on PlayStation and available at 
 launch for the PS3. It brings the same arcade-style, drift-crazy gameplay to Sony's new console, 
 and fans of the series should probably enjoy it. However, there's one small catch: Most of the 
 tracks in Ridge Racer 7 were also in Ridge Racer 6. So while the new car customization options 
 and slipstream speed boosts are features that only fans of the series will immediately appreciate, 
 all of the recycled tracks may make those same fans feel like they've already played some of this 
 game before. The enhancements to the gameplay are still enough of a draw, and to the Sony-faithful 
 Ridge Racer players who passed on the previous installment, Ridge Racer 7 will especially have 
 a lot to offer.  

          The undisputed video game drift king is back for some more insane sliding.     

  For 
 the uninitiated, Ridge Racer 7 will seem like a totally foreign world. While the arcade-style racing 
 genre has absolutely exploded over the last decade, Ridge Racer 7 still focuses on the same thing 
 it has since it first began in actual arcades: ridiculous on-rails drift mechanics that whip you 
 around corners almost automatically. Nearly losing control of your car around every sharp turn 
 is the only way to win in Ridge Racer, and the way you drive is unlike anything else on the market. 
 At this point, it's something of a secret handshake between the player and the game console. Either 
 you already know what Ridge Racer is, how to play it, and why it's fun, or you don't.  

  It's difficult to imagine someone making Ridge Racer 7 his or her first Ridge Racer game and quickly 
 getting into it, just because the way you drift is so arcane. The idea is that as you go into a 
 sharp corner, you let off the gas and then immediately hit it again. This causes you to spin out 
 and start sliding around the corner automatically. Your goal at this point is to make sure your 
 car is pointing in the right direction when you come out of the turn, where you'll regain traction 
 and keep going. When we say automatically, we mean it. You can slide through multiple hairpin curves 
 without even thinking about the nature of the turns themselves. As long as you're prepared to correct 
 the car's direction, you're A-OK. The game's cars offer multiple types of drifting. Mild sticks 
 to the road pretty well and doesn't get too crazy around curves, but it's also the slowest type 
 of car. Dynamic is on the opposite end of the spectrum, so when you drift, the car's direction 
 will dramatically whip around, making it easier to get into a drift but harder to get out of one. 
 Since it's the fastest drift type, it's the expert's choice. Standard strikes a happy medium between 
 the two and should be the best choice for beginning and intermediate players.  

  Don't mistake all this talk about automatic cornering to mean that there's nothing to Ridge Racer 
 7. On the contrary, keeping your car moving at high speeds is an exercise in precision timing and 
 takes a bit of strategy. As you drift at high speeds, you'll charge up a nitrous boost meter, which 
 has three different levels. When it fills, you can bust out a quick speed boost, or you can save 
 it up for a double or triple nitrous boost, if you want something with a little more kick. When 
 boosting, you can't drift to charge up your meter under normal conditions. But if you get into 
 a drift just as your nitrous expires, that extra speed fills up your nitrous meter much faster, 
 something the game calls "ultimate charge." So you want to strategically time your nitrous usage 
 to take advantage of that whenever possible. Also, Ridge Racer 7 adds slipstreaming to the action. 
 It's a dramatic addition because it's extremely effective. When you get right behind another racer, 
 even if you're pretty far away, you accelerate faster and can move at a higher top speed. The closer 
 you get, the more of a speed boost you'll receive. This completely changes the way you play compared 
 to previous Ridge Racer games, because now you want to stay behind your opponents for as long as 
 you can and then swing out and attempt to slingshot around them. It's a smart addition.  

          Slipstreaming is absolutely key in Ridge Racer 7, and you'll need to employ it effectively 
 to catch up to the competition.     

  Ridge Racer's car design has always been really cool. There are no licensed cars in here, but the 
 game treats its cars as if they come from a series of fictional manufacturers, with great names 
 like Kamata, Assoluto, Gnade, and Danver. On top of that, each one of these makers has different 
 makes, so you can get the Danver Bayonet, the Sinseong Jujak, or the Age Prophetie, just to name 
 a few. The car designs get wild, with lots of smooth curves that give all of the vehicles the look 
 of futuristic concept cars. In fact, the game doesn't even call them cars. It's very careful to 
 call them "machines," which is crazy. You can customize your cars by going into the "machine connector," 
 where you can purchase body parts from a separate set of manufacturers, including Dig Dug. Bet 
 you didn't know that Dig Dug made sweet body kits in his spare time. You can also purchase engine, 
 tire and suspension, and nitrous upgrades and change the paint on your car. While the engine upgrades 
 increase your top speed and the nitrous upgrades change the way your nitrous meter works, the tire 
 and suspension upgrades don't seem to have a very dramatic effect on the way your car handles. 
     

  To upgrade your car with aftermarket parts, you'll first have to establish a relationship with 
 the parts maker. Races that establish those relationships open up as you play through the main 
 mode, called Ridge State Grand Prix. In this mode, you'll enter into races one series at a time 
 and go up against seven other cars in a points battle. Winning these events will open up races 
 that will unlock the ability to buy new parts and cars. The more you use a specific manufacturer's 
 cars or parts, the more points you earn with them. These points give you discounts on that company's 
 gear at set intervals. While there are tons of different events to enter, there are only 21 tracks. 
 That number doubles because the game lets you race them both ways, but be prepared to spend a lot 
 of time racing on the same tracks. You'll get very familiar with these tracks as you play, and 
 if you played Ridge Racer 6, chances are you'll already be familiar with almost all of them, since 
 there are only a handful of all-new tracks in the game. The repetition, both within the game itself 
 and when taking the previous game into account, is Ridge Racer 7's biggest problem.  

          The online racing in RR7 lets up to 14 players race at once.     

  In addition to the 
 grand prix mode, you can enter time attack mode and race the tracks by yourself. Your best times 
 will be posted to an online leaderboard, though annoyingly, your scores don't post right away and, 
 according to the game, may take up to an hour to appear on the leaderboards. That sort of delayed 
 feedback takes some of the punch out of the leaderboards' effectiveness. There's also an arcade 
 mode, which lets you pick a car and a track and go nuts. You can play multiplayer via split-screen, 
 but it's not very smooth and not very exciting, either. Heck, you can even play an arcade-perfect 
 emulation of Xevious, if you like, because it pops up during the initial load-and-install process. 

  The game has online support for up to 14 players in a race, and this is where it gets a good dose 
 of longevity. You can simply get together and race, or you can get into a team battle, where the 
 racers split into two teams and earn points for their team depending on where they finish. Pair 
 battle is a team mode where you split up into teams of two cars. The goal is to drive in unison 
 with your teammate, because if you do side-by-side drifts around a turn, you earn nitrous more 
 quickly. The team shares one nitrous boost meter, as well. You can also take on time attack mode 
 as a duo. It's a really neat set of modes, but without any way to communicate with your teammate 
 during the race, it's hard to stick together and drive appropriately. Your only communication with 
 other racers is limited to a preset list of phrases in the lobby before and after each race. The 
 phrases are varied, but not enough to let you communicate meaningfully.  

  Ridge Racer 7 has support for all the HD modes that the PS3 can handle, up to 1080p. At 720p and 
 better, the game looks extremely sharp, and though you'll see some noticeable jagged edges on some 
 surfaces, the great sense of speed, matched with the sharpness of the graphics, makes this game 
 look great. Since many of the tracks appeared on the Xbox 360, it's worth comparing how the two 
 different games look. Ridge Racer 7 looks sharper and cleaner than Ridge Racer 6 did, but in most 
 cases you'll have to stare at both versions to notice any real difference beyond just the increased 
 resolution. Like previous Ridge Racer games, something about Ridge Racer 7 looks extremely mechanical. 
 Watching other cars drift is especially weird, because they sort of pivot effortlessly and start 
 moving in a different direction. Overall, it looks good, but it also often looks extremely unnatural. 

          If you played Ridge Racer 6, you'll recognize most of the game's tracks.     

  The sound in Ridge Racer 7 is somewhat understated. Engine noises are sort of low, as are the 
 sounds of nitrous bursts. Squealing tires during drifts, however, are plenty loud. The game's announcer 
 is a lady who sounds like she stepped right out of a bad classic-rock radio station and into the 
 Ridge Racer recording session. She'd probably sound more at home introducing a double shot from 
 Poison followed by that Y&amp; T twofer that the guys down at the local tire shop just requested 
 than she does talking about nitrous drifts and winning races. She's pretty underwhelming. The music 
 is the same sort of upbeat, lively techno that the series has been using all along. There are a 
 lot of tracks, but the one that sums it up best is called "Bad House Music." It's aptly named. 

  Ridge Racer 7 is a great entry in the long-running series, which is good news, especially given 
 that it's the first racing game available for the PS3. The gameplay changes made here are probably 
 the most dramatic that the series has seen since Ridge Racer Type 4, though the repetition of tracks 
 may be a bummer for some series fans who've probably played a mess of Ridge Racer 6. But if you're 
 a fan of the series and you haven't played it lately, you'll be in for a real treat. And even those 
 without much of any exposure to Ridge Racer may be drawn in by this game's sleek style.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (76 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 11:37 pm PT
Review:  Music: 7.0
  It's arcade-ey but it's annoying.
  
  SFX: 6.0
  Good, but it gets on you.
  
  Gameplay: 2.5
  A sum up of the whole game is drift. Release accelerate and you skid around 
 the corner at full speed and get nos out of it. You can hardly turn with out drifting and the cars 
 aren't even real. did you hear that? THE CARS.... AREN'T EVEN REAL!!! biggest joke ever. This is 
 the first Ridge Racer game I have played and it is VERY overrated.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  I have to admit the graphics are very good but graphics aren't everything are they? They did well 
 designing their own cars.
  
  Replay Value: 6.0
  As much as it sucks, it's still strangely addictive at some times.
  
  Value: 3.0
  You can 
 get it cheap, but I'd rather not have it.
  
  PROS:
  Arcade style music
  Graphics
  
  CONS:
  Fake cars
  Gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iceburneddemon
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 16, 2008 2:04 pm PT
Review:  It's the closest thing to a crappy boring movie, only difference is this annoying japanese girl 
 is telling you quite a lot of annoying repetitive bs-like damn it! You can do it! Come on come 
 on!, it's so annoying she says it arpx 12-20 times through each lvl. Also, they don't bother coming 
 up with any new scripts for her so you'll be looking for the TURN HER THE HELL OFF option pretty 
 quickly. Also, there's no real story line, no enemy car scripts, no cinematic shows, no antagonist 
 or anything, just one level after the next of real pretty race tracks. Speaking of the race tracks 
 they are very linear no open-end offroading (Like even if your off the road you'll still have only 
 a racetrack width of room to move left or right in and you can't wreck your car or flip) they come 
 up usually with one shortcut in some lvls not all though. The old Review that used to be up here 
 rated this game around 4.5 or like 5.5, wish it was still up here it fits this game real nicely 
 under insominatingly boring.
  -For multiplayer hardly any American's play although you'll see a fair bit of Japanese players, 
 if you wish to talk to anyone you can only use select comments like-Good game, Good Job, Almost had 
 you (Same annoying Japanese girl says them all as well) 
  This was the first game my family got me as a present for a holiday, after playing it for a hour 
 I was SICK of it and quit playing. Despite that it was a brandnew console that just came out-I'd 
 never do that.
  Resistance saved my butt though or i'd of taken it all back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njdevils420
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Im not huge into the racing games, but ridge racer 7 by far blows any racing game ive ever played 
 out of the water. I bought the racing wheel on an impulse after checking out GT5, so i figured 
 i will try multiple games to make the wheel feel like a worthwhile purchase.
  
  Anywho.. to RR7... playing with the wheel makes the game just down right addicting. It takes a few 
 tries to get used to the handling of the cars, but once you do... you will lose yourself for a couple 
 of hours playing the game. it is that fun!
  
  The graphics are simply amazing... especially some of the background scenary. It is tough sometimes 
 keeping my eye on the road due to the seemingly infinite level of detail of the levels. 
  
  The difficulty of the game, to me, seems just right. It takes multiple tries as most events, but 
 the game is fun enough that playing the same race over and over is still a blast
  
  After the race, check out the replay... it is another awesome display of the graphics of the game 
 and ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 7 is the seventh game in the series, with alot of new additions that make it the best 
 arcade racer game on the Playstation3. The game has around 40 cars, with most cars returning from 
 the classic edition of Ridge Racer 6 and the PSP version of the game. There are also 22 courses, 
 with thrilling bends and great layouts. 
  
  First of all i will start of with gameplay, and as most standard games, the controls are basic 
 and easy to use, with additions of the great nitrous system that let's you boost your speed while 
 drift driving and driving at your car's top speed. Also, you have the essential drift handeling, 
 by barking at hard corners and spinning lets your nitrous bar speed up in power, so you get the 
 ultimate race experience. Gameplay is good to a certain point, when you start to feel it get's 
 boring and repeative, with to many things going on. 
  
  The graphics of this game are ok, but not the best i have seen. It's arcade style game system makes 
 it seem blurred and squared, letting the cars look like bricks with no wheel movement at all. The 
 tracks are the best visual design, with buildings and tree's souringing the road, which makes you 
 feel more combfartable.
  
  A global ranking system is used to rank players. It uses a combination of FP (Fame points) , CR 
 (Credits, the game's currency) and OBP (Online Battle Points, gained in the online races) to work 
 out an overall number of RP (Ridge Points) , which are displayed on the player's Ridge State ID 
 Card. With this you can buy and edit cars, which is a good addition to the game, and the only thing 
 that keeps you on playing it.
  
  The only really annoying thing is the voices. While racing you get tips and encouragment from varius 
 people, but get's annoying after a short amount of time and puts you off, but doesn't spoil your 
 in-game experience. Overall, a nice game with hours of fun and enjoyment, a good bargain for your 
 collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbmurphy2489
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  After 'Need For Speed: Pro Street', 'Ridge Racer 7' was my third PS3 game I've played. It was actually 
 a used game I'd bought at GameStop for $27.00, but not at a good cost. I'd could've bought 'GTA: 
 San Andreas', 'MGS3 Snake Eater', or even 'Virtua Fighter 5', but I've ended up buying this. I'd 
 gave it one chance, and well... it didn't have EVERYTHING I've wanted in a racing game. So here's 
 my side of the story.
  
  The whole purpose of the game is to win the 'Ridge Racer State Grand Prix Championship' and show 
 off your skills online. It has 4 sets of machines to choose from, which I knew nothing about. Honestly, 
 this was my very first time playing 'Ridge Racer'. Anyway, it also has 22 tracks to master, but 
 it requires good skills and performance. And by "good skills", I mean "drifting around corners." 
 Once you come to a corner, you'll have to release the accel button and move the analog stick left 
 or right at the last possible moment. Seemed easy at first, but it got harder on the way. Putting 
 it simply, the controls aren't balanced or easy to master, even for me.
  
  There's not much I have to say about 'Ridge Racer 7'. The only impressive feature was the bonus 
 game 'Galaga' loading up on the screen. As of now, all I can say is it didn't bring out the adrenaline 
 in racing. No offense, Namco. You guys make Pac-Man, Tekken, and Soulcalibur better every time, 
 but this is not your best work. I'm just being honest. As for those of you who haven't played it, 
 you can IF you want to. But I doubt that it would be your ideal choice for a date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: patrickncompany
Rating: 7
Date: May 30, 2008 2:25 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer is an arcade racing kind of game.
  Theres nothing new to the type of genre that is present in the gameplay that stands out from the 
 other games in the same genre.
  Its a good game. Up-to-date graphics, just the right pace but it is almost too similar to Grand 
 turismo until i thought it was a rip off.
  It is extrememly easy once you get the hang of it.
  The beginning might be hard but once you 
 master how to play, its so easy that you dont bother playing much anymore.
  The models are cool there are many many types of car to choose from.
  Class 4 being the slowest 
 and class 1 being the fastest.
  Of course there are flaws to the game.
  Some cars aer underpowered, AI might be too stupid.
  Maybe if they spent at least three more 
 months for tweaking and fixing the game, it would turn out to be superb.
  Im not saying that this game is a failure. It has the potential to be something very good but the 
 developers were probably rushed to release it during the Playstation 3's launch.
  A decent game, nothing less , nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3-over-360
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 3, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  I'm not really a Ridge Racer fan, but when I got this, I thought I might as well give it a go. 
 I kind of liked it, but having played other racing games before this, such as Gran Turismo and 
 Need For Speed, It was a game that was actually kind of rough to control; even after learning the 
 techniques.
  
  To Ridge Racer fans, its likely one of the best, thus far, but the drifting aspect of the game 
 was something I didn't entirely like about it, though for the online play, it is pretty cool, and 
 fun to play. I've had a number of races on there, and a lot of the players are pretty damn good, 
 but like stated, it boils down to if you can pull of the techniques, or if you can only just about 
 do it. To me, it might not be the best racing game ever, but its one that you can play and enjoy 
 for a little while, if you want a quick race with friends. Something to look at, but not something 
 I'd advise over something like Gran Turismo, or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljbd999
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 28, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  Excited I was as trundled off to the shop keen to lay my hands on a cool 2 player driving game 
 and I came across Ridge Racer 7
  Having played some of the earlier titles in the series I thought I could not go wrong with the 
 latest version for the PS3......
  
  But to great disappointment I found the game to be lacking the good old fashion basic requirements 
 of a racing game.... predictable handling
  
  It would be much better described as DRIFT RACER
  
  Unfortunately the handling felt to me like 
 a supermarket trolley, to the extent that the cars don't feel attached to the track.
  
  There may be some out there who like this game but judging by the number of 2nd hand copies in 
 the store when I took it back I am guessing not many.
  
  I score it 3 just becaues it has a 2 player mode that many of the current titles seem to be lacking.
 
  
  My final comment would have to be hurry up Gran Turismo 5! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtkart
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 24, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Thats right the worst racing game i have ever played and i have played alot of racing games. i 
 have never have won a race its just too hard. and thats not because i suck at the game. its the 
 games that suck. why did gamespot rate this game 8.0 when its sucks so bad. it is a diffing game 
 or not. it just the diff so easy and so sharpe. The only thing about ridge racer 7 i like is the 
 car look cool and that the only reason way a got the game. if you like good racing games then don; t 
 waste you time on this game. I th8ink ridge racer should just stay in the aracdes not on the play 
 station three.
  I haven't spent more than 10 hours on game. Just don't believe the hype on gamespot. If you like 
 the sound of ridge racer 7 than go and rent it frist and see if you like it. i think you wouldn't 
 like it at all. So that what i think of ridge racer 7 on the play station 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballinxcivic
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  If your new to the ridge racer series, then you have to know that ridge racer is NOTHING like Gran 
 Turismo; except for the fact that there's amazing graphics. Ridge racer is ALL about Speed, Drifts 
 on corners, and NOS. It doesn't get more fun than that. If your locking for a more realistic game 
 with real cars, then this isn't the game for you. But the fact that you most likely love racing 
 and cars, this game is well worth the try. 
  
  If your already familiar with the ridge racer series, then I have to say Ridge Racer 7 is THE BEST 
 in its' series without a question. You still have the same drifting gameplay, with NOS, only this 
 time you can upgrade your car to have different types of NOS. Theres an option where you can upgrade 
 your car to fill up all 3 NOS bars, and blast away to have a long lasting and explosive NOS boost! 
 Also, you can upgrade the way your car looks and performs by buying bodykits, rims, suspension 
 kits, engine tune ups, and different paint designs, as well as decals. Never before has Ridge Racer 
 allow you to change the way you car performs and looks. If you played or own ridge racer 6, then 
 you'll see a lot of the same tracks. If you don't own Ridge Racer 6 then for sure get 7, theres 
 really no reason not to. 
  
  Graphics & Sound: The graphics are SUPURB! There is sooo much detail in the road, environment, 
 cars, and well... everything! It truly shows how next generation systems take gaming to a whole 
 other level. Sometimes I found myself in ah when racing, and I would almost always view the replay 
 of my races because of the great clarity and graphics. The sound was good, clear engine and tire 
 screeching when drifiting. The music was good too, it works well with the racing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baron_Kenobi
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This is truly a great racing game in my opinion, but follows a very different mold than other racing 
 games. The closest game would have to be Burnout in my opinion. It has the same over the top flare 
 to it, but instead of combat, it is drifting. Unlike Midnight Club, Ridge Racer doesn't have you 
 endlessly repeat the same race over and over until you have it memorized, or have you challenge 
 cops like Need for Speed. What it does, it put you in cool locations and have you fly through them 
 relying on your reflexes to flick the controls to send your car drifting through the course. Eventually 
 your car is going fast enough that by the time you pull out of a drift, you are entering another 
 one. It is truly a wild side of racing.
  
  The one flaw is that it has a love it or hate it gameplay. If you want a more realistic and traditional 
 racer, you may want to ignore this or at least rent it first. Also, the upgrade system is clumsy 
 and seems to be very basic and about four years outdated, similar to what we were seeing in Need 
 For Speed Underground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 29, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  ok... RIDGE RACER 7 a DRIFT game for the PS3 and it is so cool Race in the Global capital of Motor 
 Racing Ridge State.
  Upgrade and Customize your Machine and set your sights
  on WINNING the Ridge State Grand Prix Championship!!! 
  and online BATTLE Connect to PLAYSTATION 
 Networkand race against players from around the WORLD!!! in RIDGE RACER 7 
  ok.. the GOOD
  40 Machines on 22 reversible exhilarating courses ( FOR a total of 44 )
  and Customizable over 
 370.000 and More good Controls and sound good graphics and fun online BATTLE ( 2-14 ) and a good 
 DRIFT GAME...& good game modes it is fun 1P and online Download and play some extra special Race 
 events 
  THE BAD no 4 players and the AI system is OK 
  OVER ALL it is a good game for the PS3 its cheap its got good graphics and cool online BATTLE and 
 its FUN!!! and its Worth the Money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2008 6:43 am PT
Review:  I'm not really a Ridge Racer fan, but when I got this, I thought I might as well give it a go. 
 I kind of liked it, but having played other racing games before this, such as Gran Turismo and 
 Need For Speed, It was a game that was actually kind of rough to control; even after learning the 
 techniques.
  
  To Ridge Racer fans, its likely one of the best, thus far, but the drifting aspect of the game 
 was something I didn't entirely like about it, though for the online play, it is pretty cool, and 
 fun to play. I've had a number of races on there, and a lot of the players are pretty damn good, 
 but like stated, it boils down to if you can pull of the techniques, or if you can only just about 
 do it. To me, it might not be the best racing game ever, but its one that you can play and enjoy 
 for a little while, if you want a quick race with friends. Something to look at, but not something 
 I'd advise over something like Gran Turismo, or something. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TJsimulation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 7:01 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 7 is a good game. The graphics are not terrible, but small things like flags and people 
 sitting in the stands look 2D and look like they should have been cleaned up and made 3d like the 
 rest of the game. The real graphical detail is in the racing tracks and the cars. Playing the game 
 at 1080i, I can honestly say it looks beautiful.
  
  The music, in my personal opinion, is awesome. Whether you like it or not will depend if you like 
 the beats of Electronic, Trance, Dance, and House music. My favorite music tracks so far would 
 have to be "Before You Reach For Love," made by the same people who did the music for Ridge Racer 
 Type 4, "Return of Obsession," which sounds great on speakers and a sub woofer, "Don't Deny Love," 
 and "Onyx."
  
  The gameplay is good. Although it was a little disappointing that a good amount of the tracks were 
 from Ridge Racer 6 for the Xbox 360, I didn't care either way, because I don't have an Xbox 360, 
 so I am getting the tracks I missed out on in RR6. Veterans of the series will feel right at home 
 with the drift mechanic. If this is your first Ridge Racer game out of the entire series, I issue 
 you a warning: The drifting is unrealistic and will take time getting used to. If you do not have 
 patience or if you are one of those people who like Gran Turismo and hate any form of "unrealistic" 
 racing, DO NOT buy this game. This is almost as unrealistic as a game can get. It is an arcade 
 racer, not a racing simulator. Take it for what it is.
  
  Another warning to the newbies to the series; the final few extreme events will definitely make 
 you frustrated. If you don't decide a strategy to use or have patience using your own way of winning, 
 you will be very frustrated. I can tell you now that after the last Non-Opus Quad battles and 8 
 machine battles, the duels will increase in difficulty somewhat quickly. In the beginning duels, 
 where you are able to get in front of a rival machine more than about 5 times per race, if you 
 do not come into the final few prepared, you will not even see the rear of their special machines. 
 These races are not impossible, but they are not races where you can use just a few single nitrous 
 boosts and then 1 large triple or double nitrous at the end to pass them.
  
  Overall, Ridge Racer is what you make of it. If you don't get the drifting method by this point 
 in the series, chances are you never will. If you do get the method, you will like (or love) every 
 second of this game, which makes the wonderful ending (aesthetically amazing in HD) that much sweeter. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  I love arcade style racing games like this or Midnight Club or even Rush for that matter, But the 
 one thing I cant stand is the computer having the ability to handicap catch you no matter how good 
 you do in a race. Which happens all the time in this and all Ridge Racers.
  
  
  I want to point out that the drifting is hard to get used as well, If you tap the brake at all 
 during a turn you sling the ass end around like you slammed on the brakes.
  
  
  The levels Ive played so far seem pretty well crafted but to me it seems like a little more could 
 have went into the graphics department, with all that said its still pretty fun to play, and you 
 feel a real sense of accomplishment after you make a good comeback on the computer drivers.
  
  
  I havent tested the waters online yet but thats only because I just got this game and its 
 been out for months, And I dont feel like gettin my ass handed to me just yet lol.
  
  
  Rent it first to see if it plays well enough for you, But dont pay more than $50 I say unless youre 
 a big fan of the series 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drunknmunky3
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 29, 2007 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 7 starts off as an interesting concept with it's different styleof racing. This soon 
 fades away and the game becomes very repedative...
  
  The tracks don't have very much variety, excluding the 'dynamic' tracks which pretty much require 
 you to memorise the bits where there are difficult corners and make sure you do it perfectly then 
 (which is quite annoying) .
  
  The cars in the game are broken up into three categories, standard, mild and dynamic. This refers 
 to the type of drift that the car can pull off. Standard would be the easies to use IMO, mild 'machines' 
 are - simply put - useless, and the dynamic type is incredibly difficult not to just slide everywhere.
 
  
  Aside from the fact that arcade style games aren't supposed to be realistic, Ridge Racer 7 seems 
 to take this to a whole new level. While racing, the only parts which require you to have any skill 
 are the straigts, going round a corner is as simple as taking your finger off the accelerate button 
 for a second and pointing the stick where you want to go, then pointing it the other way when you've 
 gone round. You don't have to be good to go round a corner, the game does that for you. So that's 
 one part of racing that you lose.
  
  As for the fact that the style of racing is like the others in the series, I remember Ridge Racer: 
 Type 4 as being the game that started me off in arcade racing! It had none of this 'drifting is 
 the only way to go round a corner' jazz! 
  
  If you're looking for a good arcade racer, this game isn't for you. This game is one I would rank 
 as 'rent and forget' - once is bad enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chimera1984
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  First off, id like to make a statement :- WHAT IS EVERYONES BEEF!
  
  Lets go back to Ridge Racer on PS1, amazing game, revolutionized arcade style racers forever. And 
 this keeps exactly the same feel and style of the instant classic original.
  
  Graphics are top dollar, everything down to the motion blue when boosting using nitrous and slipstream 
 (a new feature i might add) , the car even shakes when boosting which i know seems trivial, but 
 its the little features like that, that really turn a good game into potentially a great game.
 
  
  Sounds, as far as sounds are concerned, well nice fast paced dance/electronic sound track (typical 
 of ridge racer games) , engine noises are top draw, and even the little sounds like scrapes and 
 clips of cars and tarmac are there which really add to what is an immersive gaming experience.
 
  
  I know one thing i certain cant put it down, and im sure most fans of arcade racing games wont 
 either. Its quite cheap now as well (12th decemeber like) so if you want a decent game but dont 
 want to splash out, give this a look over because it would be a great addition to any collection 
 on your shelves.
  
  Great job namco, well impressed with yet another addictive RR game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 17, 2007 3:15 pm PT
Review:  Was one of the few games during the launch of the PS3 last year, Ridge Racer begins with every 
 other racing game where you drive, race and win more races or new cars. Main objective is you race 
 around Ridge City and become a Hero of the Grand Prix. That does stop there is finally online for 
 the series now that you can race other people around the world to become in the top of the ranks 
 and earn more money to buy stuff for your car.
  There other features too such as Arcade, Goble Time Attack where you can get the fastest time during 
 online mode, and multiplayer if you want to play with a friend. Sounding is great, shame you can't 
 listen to your own music while playing Ridge Racer, the style of cars and its graphics are real 
 sweet, looks the same as Ridge Racer 6 on the 360, This game will take you a couple of hours mostly 
 14 Grand Prix races in the game but many other races and challenges you can do to past the time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickgs
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 14, 2007 9:25 am PT
Review:  This game is a huge dissapointment. I bought it in the hope it would be an impressive next-gen 
 racer. I was wrong and sorely disappointed. 
  
  I'll start with the positives. The game does run smoothly and can look very slick at points. Also, 
 i was impressed by the drifting aspect of the game, be it slightly unbeleviable. I was also impressed 
 by the multiplayer.
  
  However, i feel the negatives outweigh the positives largely. 
  The gameplay is innovative, but short lived. A few races and i was back to playing my other games. 
 
  The whole package just seems too sterile and dull, from the mundane menus to the 'nothing special' 
 in-game graphics.
  I also found this game an unnecesary sequel. It was an duplicate of RR6.
  And the music... retro, 
 electro-hip pop.... or something like that. I was not a fan.
  
  To conclude, this package failed to impress me as an opening PS3 title. However, thats my opinion 
 and the game has obviously been viewed differently by fans.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2007 3:10 pm PT
Review:  I rented this to avoid spending a great deal of money on something i might not like. I have never 
 played any of the other Ridge Racer games before, and i heard great reviews of it and wanted to 
 check it out. Well, i was more dissapointed than impressed. Ridge Racer 7 does look amazing, being 
 a great example of the PS3's graphical technology, and it does feel cool. But other than that, 
 i just can't seem to get into anything else. Even though it can feel like a good racer, it also 
 can be bad on how it races. You can't interact with the enviornment, and when you hit a car, you 
 just mildly bump off. No big crash scene. Also, when you hit the guardrail, you constantly bump 
 off it like a ball. By these things, the overall feel of the game just seems a little bland. Plus, 
 when you perform a drift and can't handle it well, have fun wasting a good amount of time trying 
 to get out of it. Slowing you down, and causing you to lose. Ridge Racer 7 does look nice, but 
 that's just a paintjob to cover up the twisted feels of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lionelchu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 3:35 am PT
Review:  I have no idea why, but i love ridge racer. i like how the nos system works and the crazy drifts 
 you can pull off. other than gran turismo, i haven't really been attached to a lot of racing games 
 in the past. the career mode is very well done, there are lots of races to do each unlocking more 
 cars and equipment. there are lots of tracks and 3 different classes of cars to choose from. the 
 equipment is very cool because each type is very distinct from each other and is very easy to understand 
 and to put into effect. it took me a while to really get used to the style of racing but after 
 a while i was hooked. i think this is going to be one of those games you either really like or 
 just hate, i've played quite a few racing games a lot done feel that much different from each other, 
 ridge racer feels very fresh and original from what everyone else is doing. if you can master the 
 drifting and nosing in this game it can become very fun, but if you don't get it, than its not 
 for you.
  
  i would say this game is a rent before buy games just because it is a great game but not for everyone. 
 the multiplayer is great and the single player is awesome. the only thing it lacks is if you want 
 to play two people on one system, it's pretty much worthless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marbing
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 16, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  There isn't much point in knocking yourself out over a game that is impossible to progress in. 
 The total frustration at ALWAYS being in last place and (in several of my early races) not completing 
 a single lap before the race ended means that the game is simply NO FUN.
  
  If you hold down the X button... you drive directly into a wall at the first curve and (if you release 
 the accelerator before the turn) you spin wildy out of control and end up going backwards. Since 
 there doesn't appear to be a reverse gear... if you come out of the spin facing the wall... you can't 
 turn in the right direction. I usually wait until the pack laps me and, usually, somebody will 
 hit me and knock me back in the right direction.
  What I would like is a NON-race... driving mode that simply allows you unlimited time to learn how 
 to control the car BEFORE you are thrown into a competitive race. But, there is no such mode and 
 therefore each race is an exercise in frustration and futility.
  
  At the moment, I can't imagine anybody actually progressing through the ridiculous number of levels 
 and races that you have to actually 'win' before you accomplish anything. At this stage I would 
 be content to actually FINISH a race but I doubt that is going to happen.
  
  Well, it's been 6 months and I have yet to win a race. I would be happy if I was able to pass a 
 single other car but, in 6 months it has never happened. The other cars are out of sight by the 
 second turn. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 7:15 pm PT
Review:  .Ridge Racer is a good game, it combines realism and lot of fantasy which sometimes leads to a 
 good combination.
  .Playing Ridge Racer si lot of fun, specially when using nitrous, which in my opinion, is the most 
 realistic aspect of the game, it is really well done, better than in any other game, you can almost 
 feel the pushhh!!!
  .Graphics are good, and frame rate issues are not present.
  .The only ba thing i can found in RR7 is that it turns to be repetitive, and loses amusement after 
 playing it several times.
  .Gameplay is cool, ots of cars to unlock and lots of customizations available.
  .In conclusion, 
 RR7 is a good racing game that offers fun, and an extraordinary combination of realism and fantasy. If 
 you are interested in this genre you should give it a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeoXPG
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  While the game features very similar courses to that of RR6 it also features some additional ones 
 and the way you unlock items in this version is great. Cars are spectacular and unlike previous 
 RR games you can customize your car with various body parts, motors, nitrous elements, handling, 
 decals, paint, and much more to improve your cars. You can also unlock already tuned full machines 
 that cannot be customized with certain parts. One of the cool things about the customization feature 
 is the plug-in you acquire. There are plug-ins for giving you say an automatic rocket start and 
 much more. Overall the graphics are on par if not a bit better then on RR6 for the 360. The cars 
 seem smoother and more detailed as do the tracks and environments. You won't be disappointed. The 
 car handling seems a bit tighter too and seems smoother then RR6. Basically the controls in the 
 game are spot on. The difficulty level can be somewhat high in the later stages of the Ridge State 
 Grand Prix. Specifically there are a couple of duels that seem next to impossible unless your race 
 is flawless. I wish this could be tweaked somewhat as it makes it hard to get back in the saddle 
 id you aren't racing every day.
  
  All in all though this is a superb game and I hope they make a sequel for the PS3. Be sure to download 
 the events from the PS store, as they are free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: assesoffire
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 8:36 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8/10
  It's drift racing. There's not much to it, I've heard of some people not catching on how to drift, 
 but I got it easily enough. As you drift, your little nitrous bar fills, the faster you drift, 
 the faster it grows. The nitrous definitely comes in handy, but used well, it makes the game too 
 easy. There's not much races until you complete it, but it will take you a while. There's the same 
 basic race styles, grand prix, time trial etc. You can tune your car and build a relationship with 
 car companies to get discounts.
  It loses 2 marks for being really easy. I don't think I ever finished a race in anything but 1st.
 
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Great, absolutely amazing. The cars look fantastic as do the road textures, reflections, everything. 
 It loses a mark for being quite bland at times.
  
  Sound: 4/10
  This has the single worst soundtrack in the world ever. It's crappy techno. Not in a all techno 
 is crap way, this is crap techno. The cars sound nice though.
  
  Controls: 10/10
  All you need is the left stick for steering, X for acceleration and the shoulder buttons for nitrous. 
 Really simple and easy.
  
  Story: 0/10
  Become the Ridge State Champion! (Yawn)
  
  Extras: 9/10
  You get free Namco flavoured decals for your car from the Playstation Store. You 
 also get about 25 free races, but they're not necessary. Good online battle mode and a little news 
 ticker along the bottom showing comments from people who've completed the game and fake news from 
 Ridge State .
  
  Overall: 8/10
  It's a really good racer, definitely worth the price. A worthy companion to anyone's new PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ollie-27
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 22, 2007 7:33 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the review of this game i thought WOW it must be a great game, so i bought it, 
 and i couldnt belive it, it was a terrible game, the graphics where great but the gameplay was 
 terrible for a car game, i love car games, but this one was horrible, i couldnt play it, it was 
 so bad, so i sent it back and got F1 which i find better. I was so disapointed with this game. 
 I must have played it for 3 hours and i couldnt see what the other people where talking about, 
 i watched tokyo drift to get me in the mood for the game, and still didnt work.
  
  I have played Ridge racer games in the past and they where miles better. So stick to the originals.
 
  
  I found it disappointing and very disapointing. Thank you for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobz101
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:24 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 7 doesn't usher in a bold new era for next-generation racing, it won't justify the 
 sky-high cost of the PS3 and - true to its lineage - it's as unrealistic as a racing game gets. 
 Now that we've established what the game isn't, let me tell you what it is: fun.
  
  When the 360 launched, hardcore gamers quickly shelved let-downs like Perfect Dark Zero in favor 
 of Ridge Racer 6, which - despite its so-so graphics and lack of any real innovation - provided 
 one of the system's most solid, lengthy game experiences. It's the same case with RR7. It's not 
 the kind of fresh, next-generation experience you'd buy a PS3 for, but it's the game that racing 
 fans will easily lose themselves in.
  
  If you haven't played a Ridge Racer title before, all you need to know is that it's an arcade-style 
 racer that focuses almost entirely on insane, over-the-top drifting through turns - if you're playing 
 the game right, you'll never even use the brake button. While Gran Turismo-loving gearheads might 
 scoff at Ridge Racer's complete lack of realism, the series' unapologetically arcade style is a 
 godsend for fans of games like Burnout, OutRun and arcade classic Daytona USA.
  
  If this type of racing suits you, then there's a lot to love about RR7. It's by far the deepest, 
 most feature-packed title in the series, with a long list of amazing courses. The only downside 
 is that about 80-90% of the game's content (especially the tracks) is taken from 360's Ridge Racer 
 6, so if you've played a lot of that game, you'll get a feeling of been there, done that right 
 from the start. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ledzep2acdc
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 14, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  It takes a while to get accustomed to the drift style of racing but I made sure I could get the 
 hang of it by first playing the demo found on PSN. The first 90% of the game is surprisingly easy 
 but the last few races are ridiculously hard (unless I'm missing something) . The plug-in units 
 (unlockable cheats) add to the games re-playability to go back and rack up wins with other cars 
 and equipment you didn't use your first time through. The music incorporated into RR7 fits the 
 game style but gets old after a while. If the single player run-through had been a little longer 
 and gradually more challenging I'd have been much more satisfied than the spike in difficulty the 
 handful of remaining races pose. All in all, a great game. If you can place first in the demo on 
 PSN and like the gameplay, I would definitely recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 13and0
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:11 am PT
Review:  Get it. Go, hurry up, whats your problem? 
  I liked this game. In fact, it's my most loved game for the Playstation 3. It has few flaws, and 
 is overall a good game. Read why.
  
  Gameplay 9/10
  The gameplay is damn good. If you're a fan of the Ridge Racer series you'll love this game with 
 it's added car customization, and slip streaming add much more depth to this game. The framerate 
 is perfect and you have an AMAZING sense of speed and power when playing this game. Fans of the 
 series will know just how to win, but there is a learning curve to this game if you havn't played 
 a Ridge Racer game before. You wont know how to win, because to win you have to nearly crash into 
 walls slamming through your drifts. It's a fun game, and the gameplay really shines. It only got 
 downgraded because the tracks are all the SAME. They're all pretty much from Ridge Racer 6, which 
 was very disappointing for me.
  
  Graphics 8/10
  It looks great, great textures and awesome sense of speed, shiny cars and all that, but it doesn't 
 look AMAZING. The cars all look futuristic, and aren't even called cars, but machines. You'll notice 
 some choppy textures here and there, but the sense of speed is overwhelming and hard to ignore. 
 The game doesn't look much better than Ridge Racer 6 for the Xbox 360, and only a higher resolution 
 is the only real difference.
  
  Sound 7/10
  There's nothing amazing here, but there's no complaints either. Good soundtrack, good sounds, good 
 everything, just not great. The announcer lady sounds lame, and the tracks have the same techno 
 you should be familiar with if you've played before.
  
  Replay 10/10
  Oh yeah, this game has such awesome online play, 14 player matches with a unique team system, it's 
 all very nice and this game definately has the longetivity with this added feature. Buy, Rent, 
 or Pass?
  Get it, it's the first racer on the PS3, and definetely worth it to fans of the series. If you're 
 not a fan, watch a gameplay movie or find somewhere to try it first, but it is actually an extremely 
 well put together game, and doesn't feel rushed like other PS3 launch games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikvk
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 7 is famous because of the extreme drifting, the slide through bends. The game looks 
 good, and the moving works well, but it always look like you're going like 2 miles an hour, but 
 when the meter says: 200 miles. You should only boy RR7 if you're a fan of the series. I buyed 
 it because I returned Resistance (boring) and wanted to get a different game. I had to buy Oblivion 
 at that time, though... Ridge Racer is one of those games where you say: 'Yes, it's alright, but 
 not quiet as you wanted it to be.' I'm sorry, Ridge Racer is not for me. I like arcade racing (like 
 Burnout) , but this doesn't give you the feeling that you're really in a car. Some will agree, some 
 will disagree, but I think Namco should stop making RR and just focus on the Tekken series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jellythapimp
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  this game is fun at first but then it gets boring....... all you do is drift race... and you cant 
 really customize the cars. I'm returning it to blockbuster tomorrow.....
  don't waste your money on it homezzzzz... dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg 
 dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg 
 dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg 
 dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg dawg 
 dawg dawg dawg 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roosnurm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 14, 2007 2:21 am PT
Review:  The crazy-drift racing game returns in style and with new customization features. You can apply 
 body kits for almost any area of your car. Kits include lowers, lifts, airflow and even major body 
 modification. Once the kits are applied, players can head to the paint and body shop to have their 
 specific paint tone applied as the backdrop for their custom decals. If you're ride still isn't 
 hot enough, consider adding some wheels from the wheel shop. Customizable handling mode allows 
 you to tweak cornering performance by adjusting tire pressure and suspension. There are over 40 
 cars in Ridge Racer 7, with each one having over 200,000 variations. The cars still accelerate 
 and drift in the Ridge Racer arcade style and even better with the motion blur, which increases 
 the feeling of speed. The track layouts are very varied as you drive - you pass a waterfall and 
 in seconds you are near a snowy peak. Running in 1080p High Definition at 60 frames per second, 
 the game is smooth, the courses look gorgeous and the tracks feel faster than ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EVAN0070
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 11, 2007 8:49 am PT
Review:  Intro:
  
  Well , this ws the first time I ever played a game with the label Ridge Racer .
  I was curious 
 to see what the game was like and so I inserted the Game Disc inside. And so it begone....
  
  Gameplay:
  
  The races are amazingly short , mostly because you will end up drifting and 
 speeding over 200klm/s. So the first thing that you notice is the decisive , for the gameplay , 
 drifts. Drifting is a technique in the game where you do a turn with not loosing a lot of speed. The 
 difference with normal turns are that in those turns you need to brake before going into the turn 
 so you get the difference.
  Be aware that drifting is quite hard in the game so some times you will end up crashing into the 
 wall and falling back in the positions. Also the good A. I. makes the game a little hard but after 
 some tries and a car upgrade you will get passed them with no problem. Another good thing in tha 
 game is the Ridge State mode where you get to do something like your own career while doing races 
 and time trials. You can also customize your car to the very detail. From spoilers to tires and engines.
 
  
  Graphics: The graphics are good but I expected more for a game on the ps3. The levels are very nice 
 and pretty and you will find them very detailed. But the cars dont look so detailed but in the end 
 ist just speed and turns so....
  
  Sound: The sound is good and during the races and while you are browsing the main menu. The tunes 
 during the races are like a big DJ party so you will enjoy it a lot. The theme while browsing the 
 menu is pretty much the same but it wont bother you that much.
  
  Ending: I believe Ridge Racer 7 would be a good adding to anybodies collection. Have fun racing!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 11, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  Well this game how should i put it, its cool and fast cars are the fastest thing and coolest that 
 i saw. In the game there will be a Grand prix, Online battling and multiplayer game. Well lets start 
 from the Grand prix shall we?:) In there its like a story mode, you win some races, and other companies 
 see you how you drive, and they will offer you new cars, money and reputation for their company, you 
 just have to race looks simple? No its not... And there are also Grand prixes where you race if 
 you think that you've got what it takes. Next is the online battling, there will be a lot of people 
 plaiyng world wide, and i can tell you one thing dont go there if you haven't learnt everything 
 about the game and driving because there will be pro's that know everything about it, they will 
 make very fast... If you want to become famous there in the online game you will have to earn money 
 and buy cars that you will use in the online races, well thats all about that. And the multiplayer 
 you will find out yourself that there... :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luke9113
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 7:44 am PT
Review:  This game is Brilliant, Not only does it have a Wide range of Highly detailed beautiful courses 
 for you to race on it also has many Fast Over-the-top cars for you to drive which enhances the 
 driving experience. The online battle feature also allows you to race drivers all of the world 
 and the easy-to-use interface makes it easy to navigate to a room with ease. you can customise 
 your car, change its colour, add body parts and even add you own decal. this game is truely great 
 with its realistic graphics and great sound effects. it actually makes you feel like your in the 
 driving seat of the car a must for first gamers who have just prchased the Playstation 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokills
Rating: 3
Date: May 23, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  Well. This was the first the game i got for the PS3 and i was happy about it since i love Race car 
 games, so anyways i turned it on and i was at first board at the starting line .. And my brother 
 said this game was stupid, but i said the serect is in the icing so i continued to wait till the 
 green light i was like YEAH IM GONNA DO IT MAN YEAH! so soon as it started the race the cars went 
 about from 0 to 25092501 miles per second... I was laughin so hard because i couldn't believe how 
 fast the cars were going, so i restarted the race about 205 times and i still couldnt make it to 
 even 29518thplace. I let all my friends play and none of them could even get close.
  
  SO dont waste your time or money on this game but if u like to see cars go faster then you think 
 its the game for you . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 9, 2007 11:20 am PT
Review:  Got RR7 with my PS3. It was the only game I had for a 4 day period. And boy was I bored......
 
  
  I like racing games, in truth I prefer more realistic racers. So this game had to work hard to 
 impress me.
  
  It looked ok. I can't believe I am writing this, looked ok . We paid a huge sum for our PS3's. 
 What is supposedly the ultimate games console produced by the premier console manufacturer and 
 one of the 1st titles they put out is ok . I realise that I appear to be in the minority with my 
 score, but I am truly disappointed by this game. THe title is a major title that has been around 
 for a couple of years now.
  
  You know what really peed me off? It was that the cars look lie they have no suspension. They may 
 well have been cube rather than cars models. They just failed to grab my imagination.
  
  Currently the PS3 scene is poor. Great kit that is poorly utilised and this game is one of the 
 worst offenders. Check it out in the bargain bins, but I advise you don't pay full price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninted8megaman
Rating: 10
Date: May 6, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  Its on of the best Racing game ive played since N64 Ridge Racer. The only down part for me is that 
 i learn things to quickly and it gets easy. But if the PSP was 1080p i would of bring this game 
 everywere i went... especially wireless connection and wifi... PSP and PS3 what makes it up? I 
 say the PS3 version is bnetter then the PSP's Ridge Racer... This one has more info and you can 
 play world wide. I'm glad that I bough this game for the PS3 People told me this sucks, but it 
 was better then EVER.
  
  It would of been even beter is you could select a music for you PS3 Music bank and play it while 
 listen to your faves... if if the music is HARD CORE ROCK!!! When i plaid with the PSP game I got 
 in first place everytime i plaied this (first PSP version) game in it. The easier the Better thats 
 what i say, Like i have Full Auto 2: Battlelines (PSP) is really easy when you enter in the codes 
 my favorite car is Nosferatu in Full Auto.
  
  I like this games car style, Drifting got me reall good it to me a lil while to master it (just 
 read the booklet) . I LOVE IT!!! THE MOST ADDICTIVE CAR GAME I PLAYED... since the PSP. Im lucky 
 that i still have no scratches on the DISK if it broke i would sit in the corner of my room with 
 a depressing emotion trying to put it mack to normal......
  
  All im trying to say this... I LOVE IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doolum
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  It is well known that games that comes with a console launch are not always the best; graphically 
 speaking; as developers have yet to master the full potential of the hardware in question ( with 
 the other cost implications that we gamers are aware already ) .
  Its been quite some time now since the PS3 has been on the market and just 14 days since I got 
 my PS3 with 2 games to try. ( I got them free&amp;#61514; ) Ridge Racer 7 is one of them. The other 
 one is Genji: Days of the Blade ( a review of which shall follow shortly )
  So what do I make of RR7 after having played it. Read through to find out:
  
  Graphically speaking 
 RR7 does sport some nice graphics. Too bad that I do not have an HDTV to have fully enjoyed the 
 visuals. Anyways, for a starter it is a nice looking game. The game environments are well rendered 
 with some nice touches, like the flying dried leaves or the speeding column of lights as you travel 
 through some tunnels.
  The gameplay is as what you would expect of an RR. Nice and easy, especially mastering the drift 
 technique does not demand too much of an effort. The first race is definitely yours.
  But, things are not always that simple and beautiful in RR7. As you progress in the game, the events 
 offered as challenges can become a hard and frustrating task. The reason behind is that in RR you 
 really cant customize your vehicle the way you would in; for e. g, a GT.
  Nevertheless, if you manage to drive like an ace, you might just be able to clinch the 1st place. In 
 most cases I had to run through the same courses 5 to 7 times to come out 1st in order to proceed. At 
 one time I even had to do the same track 17 times! Yup I was patient enough to do it.
  AhemI still lost the race&amp;#61516;.
  Just taking a break from it while I go through what 
 Genji is made of.
  Mind you though, RR7 is not that difficult a game. Choosing the correct machine only will make you 
 the ultimate Ridge Racer.
  RRs has always been given bad reviews always when Sounds came into the limelight. The ingame music 
 are nice. i like the Lost Ruins best. Then what is wrong with the sound then. The cars, the sound the 
 engines makes are not the most realistic sound you would hear around. But then one should not forget 
 that RR is meant to be a pure Arcade Racer. That is why on one end you can pump in so much Nitrous.
 
  Speaking of Nitrous, this is a fantastically nice aspect in the game. I never get tired of using 
 it, especially in Arcade mode after you can the unlimited nitrous option that becomes selectable.
 
  Overall, I will consider RR7 as a decent game to have for new adopters of the PS3, I mean just to 
 have a blast of nitrous while lying in wait for GT5 or any eventual Burnout. RR7 is a nice Arcade 
 Drifter that plays in the most simple of manners and the learning curve is one of the smallest 
 ever. Just for you to know which buttons does what and you are ready to go. And then there is the 
 other aspect, learning the courses you race on. Once you learn them it becomes easy ( at the beginning 
 ) to deal with the challenges.
  Even when things gets difficult as the competition progresses, you will rarely feel like giving 
 up.
  A must have. No. But if you have been thinking of getting it, dont hesitate. Its worth the expense.
 
  8/10
  
  Coming Next : Genji : Days Of The Blades Review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Untainted
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 25, 2007 8:12 am PT
Review:  I've been away from the 'ridge for a while now, my last encounter was with the dissapointing ridge 
 racer 5 on ps2 which followed the frankly amazing ridge racer type 4. But now I'm back on the playstation 
 booting up Ridge Racer and how happy I am to be here. Although styllistically this title borrows 
 much from the aforementioned PS2 title, the gameplay feels more akin to it's Arcade and PS roots. 
 Added in is the neat nitros feature (as seen in every racing game these days courtesy of the fast 
 and the furious) . Drifting is the name of the game, sliding around corners like a buttered dog 
 on a lino kitchen floor, before hitting the straight just before you go out of control. Ys it's 
 unrealistic, yes all the cars have silly names, yes I want to punch the strange girl who says 'Ouch' 
 when I bump into things. The music is generic hardcore with none of the classic RR tunes available 
 (where's my revolution remix eh? eh!?) but I like it. Hell I love it. It's fast its' colourful 
 it's fun and it's more addictive than crack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 5, 2007 5:40 pm PT
Review:  As I was playing this game today, about 15 percent into the Ridge State Grand Prix, I thought to 
 myself....... This is so enjoyalbe..... this may be the funnest racing game I've ever played. You 
 know what I really like about this game? It's that it is not easy. No one is gonna just fly through 
 and win every race with no problem. You have to really build your skills. This is drift racing 
 at it's best. Drifting builds up your nitrous and nitrous will help you win races. But also just 
 because you may earn alot of nitrous is by no means a gaurantee you're gonna win the race. To advance 
 through the Grand Prix you need to win the most points. So say there's three races in a challenge. 
 You don't neccesarily place first in every race to win the most points for the challenge. You could 
 win first place in the first one, say 2nd or 3rd place inf the second race, and then first place 
 in the last race and stil win the challenge. I've earned as low as 5th place in a race and still 
 came back to win the challenge. I like to play with manual transmission meaning I change the gears 
 myself. It just adds more realism to the game and once you get it down you can go faster in my 
 opinon. In this game you will need strategy, you will need skill, maybe a little luck; but the 
 AI in the game is ferocious. As you progress and earn credits you can upgrade your cars or buy 
 new ones. The tracks look great. Beautiful scenery and sometimes the backgrounds and environments 
 are just cool as hell..... especially flying through a tunnel in a city lit up by green neon lights........ it 
 just looks cool as you're doing 175 drifting around the corner in a tunnel. I've played alot of 
 racing games and I haven't always been a big fan. And I played the XBOX 360 version of Ridge Racer 
 6 and was not impressed. But that is not the case here. I am very very impressed with this game 
 and it is a very deep and satisfying experience. Most of all, it is fun. As I progress through 
 this game I feel a sense of accomplishment because I know I have worked for it. I know that my 
 progress and achievements are based upon skill and strategy and not a fjluke. I'm not gonna lie, 
 for whatever reson, some races it took me almost fifteen to twenty tries to win and rarely do I 
 win a race first try. You have to also use your brain when deciding on when and what upgrade to 
 buy. Do you want a new car that just goes a couple of miles an hour faster or buy an upgrde to 
 increase your speed by about 20 miles an hour? If you choose the wrong one, it may take you alot 
 longer to progress. I really love how the whole game is setup. I like how you progress and the 
 credits and the point s and the whole system. It's easy to navigate. It's a deep system. Good functionality 
 and options. Top-notch Definitely one of the best and funnest PS3 experiences to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 28, 2007 10:22 am PT
Review:  Thta old magic charm still exists but more refined with fantastic arcade style handling with the 
 exception of a boost put in for good measure.
  without it, it would not be the same so top marks there.
  
  The presentation is slick, the 
 graphics are sharp clean, detailed and very colourful. The handling is way non realistic just the 
 way an arcade racer should be. Theres a lot of fun to be had here. Over 40 cars and over 20 tracks.
 
  
  Earn money to spend on doing up your ride which is new to ridge racer and adds reason to complete 
 the competetive racing.
  A lenghty game with different variations on driving the same course by having different qualafications 
 to enter. Participate in different races for different companys to progress futher into the game. 
 Choose you own car and race giving you slight freedom.
  
  The games learning curve is a good one but when about 40% reached, things really start getting 
 competetive. The game runs amazingly fast when you aquire the fast cars and at times slight slowdown 
 when lots of cars on screen at once particulary going round sharp corners at high speed.
  
  The sound is good with good music tracks that suit the style and you can hear each individual car 
 as it passes you. The tracks are very varied and the music tracks change depending on the nature 
 of that level.
  
  Very addictive and another great launch title as ridge racer always is.
  This version is the 
 best in the series so far !. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andology
Rating: 7.4
Date: Mar 18, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  I've never been a racing fanatic, although i do enjoy a whip around a track now &amp; again. Although 
 i havent actually completed RR7 yet, it is one of those games that i pick up &amp; play every 
 now &amp; again when the mood suits... Unlike Resistance, or Call Of Duty 3, i havent really got 
 that involved in it to the point where i don't want to sleep till Ive completed it type thing 
 as i was with Resistance &amp; Call Of Duty. I think in terms of game play, it is challenging enough 
 to make it playable, but not too hard so that you get frustrated trying again &amp; again to beat 
 the tracks / AI etc. The game difficulty seems to have found a good balance between the 2 (for 
 my driving skills anyway ;) . I think the most number of repeats of any track I have had to do to 
 win it was around 4 attempts to come first place.
  
  The controls feel realistic enough, with a slight variation between vehicles, although i have not 
 unlocked that many yet, despite having completed 12 of the 13 grand prix championships. The few 
 tracks that do feature in this game are pretty well crafted, with some pretty challenging corner 
 combos on a few... Essentially, so far, despite completing 12 championship grand prix races (each 
 with around 3-5 tracks each) i have only really seen around 5 different tracks. All other tracks 
 are basically variations on those 5, using bollards &amp; diversions around different parts of 
 the track or making you race in the opposite direction for example. My primary motivation for trying 
 to complete each race is to (hopefully) get to see a new, great looking scenery, only to start 
 the following race saying oh, it's that airport one again or oh, and here we are back at the Buddha 
 statue one again .... The graphics are pretty nice, although not 'amazing'.... obviously not everybody 
 can gaze at the scenery while trying to race with 13 other cars, but still, i find graphics as 
 important as the car handling physics to encourage me to 'get into the feel' and actually 'experience' 
 the race, rather than feeling like i'm just playing a video game. All in all, the graphics are 
 not too bad, but i feel that the scenery around the tracks are somewhat 'sparse' in places.
  
  In conclusion, i enjoy RR7 when i play it, and i play it around once every 3-4 days for around 
 3-5 hours at a time, which i guess is a good sign. In terms of racing games, i do tend to prefer 
 things like Colin McRae Rally which i played religiously on the PC with a nice Logitech steering 
 wheel, but although game play for me doesnt quite compare, as one of the 6 PS3 games sitting on 
 the shelf, this one is certainly getting opened enough to justify its purchase... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mxrbandit
Rating: 4.9
Date: Mar 17, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Spent an hour downloading demo for Ridge Racer 7. For all the Racing Sim guys... mmm no. Very arcade 
 style game, granted I haven`t played a Ridge Racer game since the arcade awhile ago (yah they still 
 have some arcades) . Hasn`t really changed. Dont get me wrong the graphics arh arh arh.. nice ,cars 
 look great, scenery amazing, but cars handling.... it's like driving a box that will only go straight 
 or totally sideways, theres just no in between the car has no flex what so ever, no body roll, 
 weight transfer ha , take a jump no suspension mechanics. Maybe the full version has more give, 
 probably not. If arcade style racing is on your menu then drive on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElSatanno
Rating: 8.2
Date: Mar 13, 2007 9:15 pm PT
Review:  What PlayStation launch would be complete without an entry in the perennial Ridge Racer series? 
 The PS3 fires up racing with Ridge Racer 7, the latest installment in its long running arcade racing 
 series. RR7 makes a very strong statement about the power of the PlayStation 3 as well as arcade 
 racing games. From top to bottom, it's a flashy, high-speed, energetic racer which takes the series 
 to new levels, while still maintaining the classic Ridge Racer feel. Drifting at high speeds has 
 always been the name of the game in Ridge Racer, as it allows you to maintain speed and also boosts 
 your nitrous meter. Pop a charge of nitrous at top speed and you'll be able to pass over your car's 
 normal top speed. If you time your nitrous to finish just before entering another drift, you'll 
 charge the meter even faster, which adds an element of strategy to racing. Another new strategic 
 element to Ridge Racer 7 is slipstreaming, which can be accomplished by driving behind opponent's 
 cars to cut air resistance, thus improving your acceleration and slightly boosting your top speed. 
 Slipstreaming becomes very important in races with an even field of cars, when you'll need to time 
 your passes in order to win. In the beginning of the game, you'll have to participate in manufacturer's 
 trials to establish a relationship with a couple of car manufacturers and get a few cars to race 
 with. These trials also provide an introduction to the three different types of drift mechanics 
 that exist in the game. As you progress through the game, you'll gain access to different makes 
 of cars through more trials. Ridge Racer 7 also hops on the car-modding trend with a gaggle of 
 aftermarket companies which provide you with performance parts, aeroparts, and wheels for your 
 rides. These also become available through trial races. There are quite a few different aftermarket 
 manufacturers, so you end up with a dizzying array of styles and configurations to choose from. 
 Youll also unlock parts for your car which can change the dynamics of the nitrous and slipstream, 
 allowing you to tune both to your liking.
  
  The bulk of the single player game takes place in the Ridge State Grand Prix across 21 different 
 venues. Youll race them both forwards and backwards, effectively doubling that number. This isnt 
 a whole lot in comparison to other racing games, and given how many races youll enter, may end 
 up feeling repetitive. Still, the tracks themselves are quite interesting and full of switchbacks 
 and hairpins for plenty of the signature Ridge Racer drifting action. There's lots of detail in 
 the environments as well, so things never get boring. In the Grand Prix, you'll engage in several 
 different types of contests. You'll usually have to start at the back of the pack and fight your 
 way to first, although gaining points by winning will improve your starting position in subsequent 
 races. There are also a host of single-race events to take on, which not only occur in varied race 
 styles, but also often carry restrictions on upgrades and parts. Once you complete all the officially 
 sanctioned race tournaments, a slew of underground races become available which ramp up the difficulty 
 significantly, but offer some pretty cool prizes.
  
  The drifting mechanic, which is so central to the game, takes a bit of getting used to. Youll 
 find your car defying logic and making hairpin turns without any effort, but the real trick is 
 handling the exit. Once you drive cars with the dynamic (and even standard to a lesser extent) 
 drift property, it becomes very easy to over-correct after a turn and find the car sliding sideways 
 back and forth across the track as you attempt to get it under control. As perhaps an unintentional 
 balance, the AI in Ridge Racer 7 works on a very generous learning curve. Experienced racers won't 
 find a great deal of competition until well into the Grand Prix, and even then most races dont 
 become down-to-the-wire affairs. Newcomers to Ridge Racer may find the game a bit challenging, 
 though, as the more dynamic cars can be quite frustrating to handle. Even so, the game is fairly 
 forgiving, so it isn't likely that anyone is going to smash controllers in frustration over this 
 one. Ridge Racer 7 supports a healthy online multiplayer component, which includes all the different 
 options available in the single player game, plus two new online modes: team battle and pair battle. 
 Both race types are just what they sound like; in team battle, youll race for overall standing 
 and your teammates points will be tallied to determine the winner. Pair race teams you up with 
 one other racer, who you need to work with cooperatively in your bid for victory. The idea of having 
 a teammate (or teammates) opens up lots of strategic racing options, like having one blocker and 
 one leader, or leap-frog style slipstreaming. Communication with friends and rivals is accomplished 
 in the lobby through groups of preset phrases and emoticons. Its very simple to address one person 
 or the entire room with a few quick clicks. While this does limit your overall range of expression, 
 its very fast, and most of what you may want to say in a racing game is covered. Theres no support 
 for voice, though, so communicating during a race is impossible.
  
  If all this still isn't enough for you, there is also an option for UFRA Special Events, which 
 can be downloaded from the PlayStation store. These events take on many forms, but all of them 
 are rather challenging. Unfortunately as of this writing, none of the special events are available 
 in the US PlayStation store, so you'll have to either wait, or rig up a Japanese account to get 
 the action. Also available in the Japanese store are special decals to apply to your cars.
  
  But crazy graphics are why you bought that PS3, arent they? Well for a straight-out-of-the-gate 
 game, Ridge Racer 7 offers a pretty nice show of the muscle that the PS3 can push. The car models 
 look absolutely beautiful, and sport plenty of detail. Some cars have see-through engine covers 
 which allow you to get a good look at every valve and piston working in there. There are plenty 
 of body designs and color schemes to choose from for every car. It would have been nice to be able 
 to take an active role in applying the decals, but its hardly major failing. The lighting reflects 
 off of the cars in real-time as well, and really looks wonderful as you pass from a tunnel out 
 into the open. Theres a neat motion blur effect as you blast your nitrous, although it isnt as 
 pronounced as in some other racers. On a little side-note, one of the nice non-race touches added 
 to Ridge Racer 7 is a scrolling news ticker which provides lots of varied information. Theres 
 plenty of news about events within Ridge State, along with international times from other real-world 
 racers, your own best times, and even event-driven news items that relate to your recent achievements. 
 As mentioned before, the backgrounds are really quite nice, even though theyre usually whipping 
 by at 150 miles an hour. Theres a lot of personality to the different environments, and you can 
 feel the change in atmosphere as you go from the countryside, into the hills, down into the industrial 
 zone, and through the heart of the city at night. If you take a moment to watch the demo or replays, 
 youll be able to really appreciate the level of detail given to the courses. Road surfaces are 
 textured very naturally, trees diffuse light realistically, and the skidmarks that the racecars 
 leave as they peel through turns remain on the road for the duration of the race. The sound in 
 Ridge Racer 7 is a hit-or-miss affair, and not all of it subjective. First theres the announcing 
 girl who offers tidbits of game info before races and during the race. Although she doesnt really 
 chime in that frequently, its never anything terribly informative, and wouldnt be missed terribly 
 was she absent. The sound effects for the cars themselves are quite nice, though. They all sound 
 like highly-tuned racecars, and moreover, every model has a slightly different sound. Given that 
 racing is fairly centered around drifting, youd think that the screeching tires would be showcased, 
 but this really isnt the case. For the most part the squealing is subdued, and only stands out 
 when youre in the middle of the pack or drifting in a tunnel. The nitro sound is also fairly restrained. 
 A neat little trick with the nitrous, though; if you pop a big boost between close buildings, youll 
 be treated to the sound of shattering windows as you blow through. Ridge Racer has always been 
 a game driven by techno soundtracks of varying quality, and the tunes in this installment are no 
 exception. Nothing is really very aggressive, being more of a happy house bent then any booming 
 drum and bass. But the tone of Ridge Racer isnt very aggressive either, so it suits the atmosphere. 
 The arrangement of several of the audio tracks is a bit odd though, as frequently the rhythm doesnt 
 really kick into full gear until after the checkered flag. Unfortunately for you non-electronica 
 fans, theres no option for custom soundtracks this time around, so youll have to settle for whats 
 there.
  
  Of course there isnt really much to compare to on PS3 right now, but Ridge Racer 7 is still a 
 high-quality ride. Fans of the series will have little to complain about. Everything looks and 
 feels like the Ridge Racer weve become familiar with over the years, and the new elements add 
 to the experience without becoming too complicated. Although it may take first time players a while 
 to get used to the gameplay, its not overwhelming by any means. While its not so stellar as to 
 warrant a label of must-have, Ridge Racer 7 is a great game that wont disappoint any arcade 
 racing fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxs_alex
Rating: 6.9
Date: Mar 9, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game because I thought it would be better than the previous Ridge Racer on ps2. It 
 was a big disappointment because the physic is not there. It gotten boring after 2 laps. The only 
 thing great about it is the graphics. The gameplay is just not there. It feels TOO easy because 
 the walls will keep you in the race. I can even finish the race by holding down 1 button (accelerator) . 
 If there were damages and explosions in the game then it would've received a better score. Don't 
 waste your hard earned money on this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali11433
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 2, 2007 9:55 pm PT
Review:  I was so surprised by the awful car movement, the horrible clanky metallic sound, and the overall 
 lack of realisticness of the game. It plays exactly like an arcade game. Having played Burnout 
 and Need for Speed, its really torture to have to endure this level of craptacular crappiness. 
 I don't understand how this game was rated so high. There aren't even any hot girls in short skirts 
 to compensate for the lack of enjoyment in the game. Every aspect of this game is boring and horribly 
 atari-like. How many more words do I need to make the 100 word limit? Is this enough? Is it? Is 
 it? How about now? .... nnnnnow? Ok, how about ... NOW?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: groce_j
Rating: 7.7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of the Ridge Racer series since the PS1 era. I really haven't had enough time to 
 play this game but I first have to say that the game looks stunning. There is alot of excitement 
 when starting up a race in the pole. I just love hearing the engines roar. The best part of the 
 game is the ability to drift with ease. If you love pulling impossible turns, this is the game 
 to have in your collection. Just like the other Ridge Racer games, you have to work your way up 
 to the faster cars. You better start perfecting the art of drifting at high speed cause the speed 
 is overwhelming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: black_chewbacca
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 25, 2007 1:24 am PT
Review:  Good: Fun, fast racing; insane drift based game play; car upgrade system; plenty of game play options 
 including online.
  
  Bad: Game play and graphics are lacking, especially for next-gen; the game still leans too much 
 to arcade; main interface is very confusing, especially the first time through; drift based game 
 play gets old; race tracks are poorly designed are are mediocre looking.
  
  Ridge Racer 7 is the first racing game for the Ps3. Unfortunately its not a very good first impression 
 for next-generation racing. As you may know, Ridge Racer travels all the way back from the arcade 
 days. It was a hit then, but is a dying series. The game just seems to try too hard to cling on 
 to whats left of the classic game play that is quickly gaining age. All you do is drift all around 
 some poorly designed maps, which is a fun, classic method of scaling the large tracks, but doesn't 
 feel as fresh and as exciting as it used to. Theres not one racing game that doesn't have one insane 
 feature. Burnout has bad ass car wreckage, Motorstorm has intense desert car races, F1 has beautifully 
 sounding and looking race cars that handle extremely well, and Ridge Racer has worn-out drift frenzy 
 game play. Another sad thing is that all the cars are imaginary. They are also bland rip-offs of 
 real cars, they look unrealistic and too space age. You can really tell they haven't let go of 
 the past when you hear the Japanese girl yelling phrases as you play. They cant seem to get up 
 to future times and drop the whole arcade theme. While it may be a classic theme, its also a weak 
 theme to base a game around. When its next-gen the last thing people want to play on their 600 
 dollar machine is a game that is wandering in the past and holds many arcade features. The environment 
 is noticeably bland and unattractive. The vehicles are also pretty dim looking, no real great aspect 
 of the graphics are present.
  
  The sound... Where can I start? Its just repetitive techno that loops around and around just like 
 the classic. It gets real old and annoying, you'll find your self shutting it off after around 
 3 minutes. A huge let down is that the cars don't sound very good. The engines hum at a low, unattractive 
 volume that makes you feel like your driving a van, rather than a race car. There are no real good 
 points of the sound that redeems its other downfalls and constantly feels mediocre.
  
  Overall, Ridge Racer 7 is a game that should only be considered checking out if you are a long 
 fan of the series or someone who is desperately craving a racing game and cant wait a lousy week 
 for Motorstorm. Its definitely worth your money if your one of those two mentioned above, with 
 all the game play options its well worth the small price, let alone the fact that online will add 
 some game play hours. If your just a casual gamer, this is a waste of time, it may have many features, 
 but that wont mean it will keep your attention for the entire length of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Domstercool
Rating: 8.4
Date: Feb 23, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Its been over thirteen years since the first Ridge Racer entered the gaming world. The opening 
 instalment was originally out in the arcades. A year later it became a launch title for Sonys 
 PlayStation system. Since then a Sony console launch has always had a Ridge Racer game to coordinate 
 with it. The release of Ridge Racer 6 on the Xbox 360 was the first time the series had ever supported 
 another console from launch. With the PlayStation 3 nearly arriving in our European stores and 
 already out in Japan and America, Namco has decided to support the console release with Ridge Racer 
 7.
  
  Ridge Racer 7 is just like all the other games when it comes down to gameplay. Its all about crazy 
 high speed drifting. This game is certainly not a racing simulation. It is however a pure, high 
 octane, arcade racing game. This means that youll be drifting around corners at speeds no lower 
 than 125mph, Whoa! Thats some crazy drifting! as one crazy commentator would say. The game takes 
 this one principle of speedy drifting and bases everything around it. Youll have to perfect the 
 drift to become a Ridge Racer master.
  
  If youve never played a Ridge Racer game in your life, then youll probably be surprised and somewhat 
 alienated by how the game handles. It doesnt take into account real physics. The game is all about 
 illogical, over the top skidding, kind of like you are sliding around corners on oil. Drifting 
 is simply done by releasing the gas button, turning into the corner you are going around and simply 
 holding down the gas button again. This initiates the car to slide around the corner no matter 
 how fast you are travelling. If you travel slowly however (sub 60mph for example,) into a corner 
 the game wont forgive you for doing so, and youll probably not initiate the drift correctly thus 
 consequently ending straight up into a wall. To Ridge Racer veterans, this is what they are used 
 to. They wouldnt have the game any other way and will feel right at home jumping into Ridge Racer 
 7.
  
  A returning gameplay mechanic from Ridge Racer 6 is the nitrous bar. It was first introduced to 
 the series through the PlayStation Portable game Ridge Racers. It was then improved upon in Ridge 
 Racer 6 by adding double and triple nitrous modes. To fill up the nitrous bar you have to drift 
 well and fast around corners. Once youve packed up a bar you can shoot off a nitrous that will 
 send your speed over the cars supposed maximum speed limit. At first you only have the ability 
 to use them in single bursts, but once you travel further through the Ridge State Grand Prix mode 
 you get to unlock different nitrous abilities. The double and triple nitrous make a return with 
 some extra tuning abilities tossed in because of the new customisation feature.
  
  Slipstreaming is something new added to the franchise. At the bottom left of the screen under the 
 nitrous bar, is a little bar showing when you are slipstreaming. If you manage to stay behind long 
 enough, you can catapult yourself around and in front with the extra speed gained from slipstreaming. 
 It even works when you arent exactly right behind the car. It manages to give you a temporary 
 speed increase a few seconds after you come out of the slipstream. Its not something that you 
 need to get used to straight away. It does however come in handy for online and the harder races. 
 The slipstreaming is a worthwhile enhancement to the gameplay because of this.
  
  Customisation is a new element that the Ridge Racer series has be yearning for a long time. It 
 may not feature customisation as deep as games like Need for Speed, but you are surely able to 
 make something that looks like a hot ride. The player can modify the car using the games Machine 
 Connector function. This area of the game lets you change the physical look of the car. Things 
 like bumpers, roofs, spoilers and the like can be altered. It also lets you upgrade the cars hardware. 
 Components like engines, tyres, nitrous, suspension and so forth can be changed.
  
  The main mode for single player is the Ridge State Grand Prix. Like Ridge Racer 6s Explorer mode, 
 the game introduces you with a video to how the career system works. Modes like this in the past 
 games have always just been about racing and winning better performance cars. This time Ridge Racer 
 7 starts off with you having to build relationships with car manufacturers. To do this you must 
 beat the manufacturers challenge and upon completion you are rewarded with either a new car or 
 machine parts. Once youve got yourself a mean machine, you then have to go about winning credits 
 and gaining fame. Like any sort of racing competition, this means making sure youre winning races 
 to get you into the spot light. Coming first also means youll be able to gain points for using 
 the manufacturers car and/or tuning parts. Building these points up to the max of 100 equals rewards. 
 Rewards means goodies like new parts unlocked and discount off prices.
  
  There is somewhat of a minor concern for the Ridge State Grand Prix mode. I say minor because while 
 it may sound like a huge predicament, it doesnt actually take that much enjoyment out of the game. 
 Also the problem does sort itself out once you get further into the mode. The hitch is that the 
 start of the Ridge State Grand Prix is truly easy, too easy in fact This was also a dilemma in 
 Ridge Racer 6 too. It feels like Namco is hand-feeding you the victories and to come anything but 
 first would really mean doing a giant cock up. The difficulty does increase once you get further 
 into the game, especially when the extreme battles are unlocked. These are highly challenging races 
 with some seeming impossible, until you get the hang of the track and when to exactly release the 
 nitrous.
  
  Other modes are typically what you would find in most other racers on the market. Online Battle, 
 as you can guess is where you go online to race against people around the world. It contains the 
 single racing that was included in Ridge Racer 6 (Ridge Racer 6 was the first time the series went 
 online.) To accompany the standard racing are a few new modes, which are more focused on groups. 
 The first one is Team Battle. This is where the players are split in to groups of two, team red 
 and team blue. The winners of the race are the team that manages to get the most points. This means 
 coming in higher positions than the opposite team members. A twist on this event is Pair Battle, 
 which is somewhat the same, but people are just put in to pairs. Then it is the first pair to cross 
 the line that wins. There isnt actually anything different to the racing, so it still fun to play 
 the different modes that are on offer.
  
  The online and offline stuff are somewhat merged together. Straight from the get go youll see 
 a news bar which updates at the bottom of the screen, showing other players accomplishments and 
 how many game rooms are available. Also everything you do in both modes is saved into your Ridge 
 State ID card. This ID card is full of stats and information. It takes down your location, rankings 
 in the multiple categories available, wins, miles driven and so forth. It also has achievements 
 you can unlock so people can see what youve accomplished. Obviously you dont get any points for 
 them, since the PlayStation 3 console doesnt have anything like the Xbox 360 achievement point 
 system, but you can still get bragging rights as you fill them up.
  
  Global Time Attack, Arcade, and UFRA Special Event are the last modes. The first two shouldnt 
 need an explanation, but UFRA Special Event is a section that allows you to download and play some 
 extra special racing events, which appear up on the PlayStation Store when Namco decide to release 
 any. There wasnt any available at the time of writing this review, but there are some out in Japan, 
 so no doubt they will eventually arrive for us English-speaking gamers. European release time period 
 Id speculate for the time been.
  
  Since Ridge Racer 6 was a release title for the Xbox 360, a rival console to the PS3, people are 
 going to want to know just how well Ridge Racer 7 looks. The game is a PS3 release title, which 
 features some content from Ridge Racer 6, so how does it look then on Sonys power house? Not that 
 much different really. The game has support for high definition gaming, which means 720p, 1080i 
 and 1080p. The game looks exceptionally sharp and clear at those resolutions, even on a standard 
 television set the game looks clean and crisp. Compared to Ridge Racer 6 the game looks a little 
 sharper. The tracks also featured from the previous game contain a polished look with some improved 
 textures appearing in certain sections, usually with better light reflection or a wetter appearance. 
 Namco has also added little effects on the nitrous using screen blurs around the edges and the 
 camera shakes around to just give you a sense that you are using some crazy high speed boosting. 
 The game has a great sense of speed that makes it feel a tad faster than Ridge Racer 6.
  
  Music is an extremely immense part of the Ridge Racer experience. The series has made a mark for 
 its addictive sounding trace/dance/techno songs. The game contains a hefty 38 songs in the Global 
 Music. There is another disc greyed out called Net Disc. For the time being it doesnt seem to 
 do anything. My guess is however that this will be for the downloadable music content that appears 
 up on the Playstation Network servers in the future. The car sounds arent anything to shout about. 
 They seem to be your standard affair. They get the job done, that sort of thing.
  
  Ridge Racer 7 is just the sort of update the franchise needed. It adds a lot of new things the 
 series has never seen before. Ridge Racer 6 was more of a minor update, while this pushes it up 
 a stride. Ridge Racer 6 did shove it into online play, but apart from that it was the same stuff 
 over again with new courses and looks. It was a good game and loads of fun, but it couldnt really 
 be done again without people catching on and complaining. People who have played/owned the 360 
 version will be asking a lot of questions about the content of Ridge Racer 7. It does feature a 
 lot of cars and tracks from Ridge Racer 6, but at the same time it somehow manages to still feel 
 fresh. This is due to the new features of slipstreaming, customisation and the whole new take on 
 the main single player mode, Ridge State GP. The game is certainly recommended if youve never 
 played six, and if you liked six then it would be worth checking it out and seeing for yourself 
 just how different it is. When all's said and done the game isnt revolutionary, but it doesnt 
 really matter. Its all about having fun with the PlayStation 3 on launch day and this game will 
 provide you with some great arcade racing enjoyment. Just sit in your chair and prepare for the 
 adrenaline rush of some outrageous nitrous. Feel the passion of Ridge Racer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chamber303
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Once again, Namco scores big with RR7 for the PS3.
  The visuals are amazing. From sound to graphics, speech, blur effects.
  When you start playing 
 the game you won't want to stop.
  On 720p it looks amazing and even better on 1080p.
  The backgrounds are rich and detailed.
  
  A few people don't like the idea of the non-real 
 drift control implemented in RR7. well this is what RR is known for. And the reason it was and 
 still is popular. You can't give RR7 a low rating based on the fact that you don't like the physics 
 used.
  If you know the game. You'll give it a better rating because of the PS3 ability to use the advanced 
 physics capabilities and make the game totally unreal and awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DylanDJK
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 30, 2007 12:41 pm PT
Review:  I fell in love with this game when I rented an Xbox 360 for a week and Ridge Racer 6 with it. The 
 drifting is addictive, probably the best style I have seen in an arcade racer. Not so much as ANYTHING 
 to do with reality, which makes this game a welcome change from Gran Turismo, Forza etc.
  
  The graphics aren't the best the PS3 have to offer but they aren't that bad either. They scenary 
 is improved lots for the PS3 version vs. the 360 version but most car models have stayed the same. 
 That said, this game truly shies in HD, I have played it for about 65% ou of 78% in SD though and 
 I play on our HDTV every so often now. The Graphics in HD look nice, the cars seem more colourful, 
 the detail in them really shine.
  
  This is a love or hate game. I have heard people say they can't stand the drift cornering, others 
 like myself, love the drifting. I have put in around 13 hours into this game and I'm about 78.7% 
 done and the races started to get pretty tough around 70%. If you own the 360 version, I don't 
 advise you to pick this game up as it doesn't offer enough new content to warrent another purchase, 
 but life you are like myself and don't hve a 360 and love Ridge Racer, this game will keep you 
 entertained for hours! Overall:8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pufferfiz
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Ridge racer 7 is a great return to this classic game. The sense of speed in the race will get you 
 into the game. Nitrous is back! And it looks like it will stay, but now with 7 (except standard) 
 types of nitrous to build on a strategy. The cars look great and the variety is great, though I 
 would like to see a 3 wheeled car like in RR4, and customizable decals for that matter. There are 
 a lot of different things you can do to your cars, but unlike most games, these make a big difference 
 when racing. This include Nitrous, body parts, tires, engine, and various plug in parts so you 
 can play however you like to. While racing youll find that the backgrounds look great, but look 
 closely and youll find some thing familiar, almost all the textures are over used, it looks like 
 a 50X50 pixel image pasted over and over again. So looking at the beautiful background is nice 
 but , unfortunately, having it ruined by textures that are not up to par. This goes for the New 
 machine CG, you can tell its the same CG with different textures to represent the company the 
 car is from. So it quite annoying viewing the same scene over and over again. Speaking of CG, there 
 is no beginning movie to RR7, only movie can get like that is the e3 video. While Youre racing 
 you can be comforted by the amazing sounds of the amazing collection of BGM on this game. The BGM 
 I think really give the mood of the game, its techno/dance, so I think you can get into the game 
 with the tracks. I like is so much, id buy the cd if it was available. Overall the game is either 
 really easy or really hard, you can drive away off from the pack or struggle to stay with the pack, 
 there is no much room for mid difficulty races. You can blaze through the single player but then 
 struggle to complete the single races. Though if you want an challenge then go and download the 
 special races for those are extremely hard. RR7 did a good job using the PS3 online capabilities, 
 online leader boards, where you can challenge a time, download there ghost, or watch there replay, 
 instantly. This can be found in time trial, where you will race a track like normal, but have your 
 time compared to others around the world, and if you want download the ghosts of others so you 
 can race against them. There are also Special races and decals available at the Playstation store, 
 keeping the game fresh with new challenges. Though when you are racing online youll find that 
 the game is really laggy, cars will be all over the track, and one bump into them and you'll be 
 back on 1st gear. So its very frustrating if you are trying to do a serious race. The game is 
 great, its worth getting, if youre a fan then youll know what to do, if its your first time, 
 it may take a while to get used to, but when you get the hang of it you will be Addicted. Though 
 you wont like it if youre into sim racing, luckily GrandtrismHD is just a click away, so if you 
 like arcade style racing, go and pick this one up. Besides whats the point of a new system with 
 out the a new ridge racer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: f1ipmode
Rating: 8.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 4:05 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I was wondering if I was going to regret my purchase of RR7, fortunately this 
 wasn't the case. The obvious point of the game is to win races and build up your fame and money 
 to tune your machine as you choose. The customization factor is new to RR and is well received. 
 You can tune your exterior of the machine as well as decals, more importantly you can upgrade your 
 engine and nitrous to boast machine performance. Many racing games in comparison have these features 
 already but are usually missing the fun factor and let me tell you this game is A LOT of fun. The 
 control is as tight as always, however; people new to the RR series may have some difficulty learning 
 the essential drift technique required to progress in the more difficult stages of the game. Once 
 this skill becomes second nature the game becomes addictive to play. The online aspect of the game 
 is awesome. I've experienced NO lag when playing at all and it's easy to join a race.
  
  Graphics. Great! The races vary from night, forest, city races and races the some ruins. I was 
 expecting a bit more detail but all in all very nice to look at (if you even have since you move 
 so fast.) Car models look very nice. The models vary from futuristic looking to more contemporary 
 models.
  
  Sound: The ambient sounds in this game are great, especially if you have a 5.1 sound system, if 
 your speakers are place correctly (in the options of the game you can precisely configure the speakers 
 the proper angle there facing) . Everything is clear and the engine sounds aren't over bearing. 
 The music is a bit boring and easily forgettable which keeps me from giving the sound a perfect 
 10.
  
  Overall. you'll be playing this game for a long time with amount of things to acquire. The online 
 multiplayer aspect is definitely a winner and most importantly this is a FUN game if you're a racing 
 fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong777
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jan 18, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  i am a big ridge racer buff and i remember going to the local family fun center at leat 3x aweek 
 when i was in high school placing the game. visually, its awe-inspiring. in fact, the first 10-15min 
 i was playing i kept on getting my butt kicked cause i was mezmorized by all the background and 
 clarity.
  
  the drive and gameplay is great and even though the racetracks are monotonous because there's only 
 so many, it is quite alright because it is a different experience with each different car you use. 
 the drift capability couldnt be more impressive, and i love the music tracks.
  
  hands down, if you dont already have this game..... STOP WASTING YOUR TIME READING THIS REVIEW 
 AND GET IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VegetaFr20
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 16, 2007 9:28 pm PT
Review:  Make note that I, traditionally, am not a race fan.... with the exception of Mario Kart. I bought 
 this game on a whim because it was a launch title for PS3 and it definitely came as a pleasant 
 surprise! The drift mechanic is very easy to learn and fairly easy to control... There are three 
 drift types: standard being the norm, mild with more control but less drift angle, and dynamic 
 which is super easy to drift but MUCH harder to control! The cars are pretty customizable and you 
 unlock parts and different paints from different manufactuers as you go along! Again, as a newbie 
 to the series I dont have much to compare it to, but, you have plenty to spend your hard earned 
 cash on!
  The video quality is superb, graphics are top notch and in 1080p, you see every waking detail, 
 even in insanely fast action such a nitrous boosting! It's no GTHD (if you have not played the demo 
 you are crazy) in terms of graphics, but it is a nice preview of what to expect on the PS3.
  Audio quality is GREAT! Using a 5.1 system gives you a huge advantage because you really can hear 
 the rev of an engine coming from the rear left or right! Driving through different locales is hit 
 miss as far as background noise though... Also, I would have loved the option of my own music in 
 the background!
  One of the best components is online play, its insanely addictive and lag free! Hopfully we'll 
 see downloads in the future for new cars and tracks or manufacturer's parts packs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: al721
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jan 14, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  Very Disappointing... the drifting in this game is amazingly stupid and there is barely any multi 
 player gameplay.. only one-on-one with no other computer competition. Career mode is boring and 
 the cars look terrifying. Yes, it does have some good cut scenes when you receive a new car but 
 that's about it. Overall, it takes around 5 minutes to learn how to play this game and it also 
 takes about the same amount of time to throw this game away. If your looking for a good racing 
 game, this isn't one although it might be the only option thus far. If you want to buy this game, 
 you might as well waste your money on NFS Carbon, at least they got actual license for the cars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Remy_Labue
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 8, 2007 7:21 am PT
Review:  In 1995, Namco debuted the first of what would eventually become one the most well known racing 
 franchises in the gaming industry. Always at the height of graphical achievements, Ridge Racer 
 has earned its right to be the first to show off the true power the next-generation consoles have 
 to offer. So its no surprise that you could find it on the shelves, right next to the elusive 
 PS3, (or lack thereof) , on launch day. 
  
  I have played most of the Ridge Racers since its debut, but never really enjoyed the series as 
 a whole. My racers of choice has been Flatout 2, and its still my arcade racer of choice. However, 
 Namco managed to solve almost every issue I had with their series in RR7, and make this franchise 
 better than I ever thought it could be. 
  
  Ridge Racer 7 takes place in a near future, where street racing is whats hot, and if youre not 
 a racer, or a manufacturer, then youre nothing. Ridge State is a community of racers and racing 
 fans that have come together to organize the greatest racing competitions and televised battles 
 the world has ever seen. It is your goal to build a relationship with the various car producers 
 and prove your worth, so that they may provide you with the latest racing hardware on the market. 
 All the while, working your way through Ridge State Grand Prixs to prove you are the best racer 
 around, at least until you start meeting opponents online. 
  
  The Ridge State Grand Prix invites you into the world that is professional street racing. It is 
 here where youll run through Manufacturers Trials, earning the respect that you so rightly deserve, 
 and obtaining your first vehicles. You will also compete in UFRA Single Events, which are sets 
 of challenges ranging from Time Trials, to Overtake 13, (which forces you to start at the back 
 of the pack, and slingshot your way to the front by the end of the third lap) . Each victory will 
 earn you money and fame, money which you can use to upgrade and customize your machine for use 
 in later races. This mode provides an insane amount of races for you to participate in, where completing 
 all of the Manufacturers Trials and Grand Prix will only get you about 28% through. I dont want 
 to give away too much, but soon after the Grand Prix is completed, a storyline is revealed involving 
 you as a marked driver by a group of unsanctioned , and illegal street racers. 
  
  Namco really wants us to feel immersed by the community they have created, and theyve done one 
 hell of a job simulating just that. From the moment you enter the Grand Prix mode and are introduced 
 with a welcome by the announcer, you feel as if the public is actually watching you. As you make 
 your way up the ladder, a ticker at the bottom of screen is updated with News Announcements, sometimes 
 pertaining to you in some way. The Mayor of Ridge State congratulates you for winning certain races, 
 manufacturers make announcements that they are now primary providers for you when you earn 100 
 points for that specific company, rival racers make comments about you, and the community congratulates 
 you on specific achievements. In addition, the ticker also scrolls unrelated news stories that 
 are fake, but add to the concepts design. 
  
  Arcade lets you race at your discretion, giving you full control of which car type, track, and 
 customizations you wish to utilize in the race. This is also where youll race head to head with 
 your friends via split-screen. Its great that they left the option to play multiplayer on one 
 system in this reiteration of the saga, but this is also where all of the frame-rate drops in this 
 game happen. 
  
  Global Time Attack allows you to race-tracks alone, trying to achieve the best lap time possible 
 to rank yourself against racers around the world. To make this even easier for you, they allow 
 you to scroll through the ranking boards, and mark a rival adversary. By marking them, you can 
 race their ghost to know where you stand on that track. 
  
  UFRA Special Events are downloadable events released by Namco via the Playstation Network. I have 
 yet to see one of these events available to the US, however, if you were to complete the challenge 
 with good enough stats, then you can leave a comment on an interview screen. I have seen a few 
 different interviews from Japanese players scrolling across the ticker, so theyve at least gotten 
 a few Special Events. 
  
  This personification of the series does not disappoint, and only proves that there is still some 
 life left in those tires. Theyve managed to keep everything that makes this license what it is, 
 including physics defying drifts, nitrous boosts, futuristic vehicles, and even the short-haired 
 Asian model, (who never left our hearts) , along with advancing the formula to the next level. While 
 this might not be the preeminent racing game out there, it sports the finest use of online functionality 
 I have ever seen in a console game. 
  
  The online component is where Ridge Racer 7 really shines. You can create or join a room with set 
 rules and race others via the Playstation Network. Not only do you gain money and fame just like 
 in Grand Prix mode, you can also earn Online Battle Points, which you can use to rank yourself 
 against other players. 
  
  Some tweaking could have been used in the online battle. One of the biggest issues with this mode 
 is collision detection during lag. The game wont drop frame-rate at any given moment online, but 
 a car can start skipping around the track a bit if that player is lagging. There really is no good 
 cure for this, since its the player, not the game causing the issue, but many games before it 
 have found decent solutions. For instance, Papyrus Nascar Simulator phased all cars that started 
 to lag into ghost mode, and turned collision detection against that racer off completely. Namco 
 didnt learn from this. There have been a few races where the driver right in front of me lagged, 
 and skipped backwards into me. Since it skipped movement completely, this causes a head-on at full 
 speed effect, launching me halfway around the track in the wrong direction. Screwing any chance 
 I had at completing the race. This doesnt happen very often though, maybe three or four times 
 since I bought it, and usually if the owner of the room notices the lag, that player is kicked 
 quickly. 
  
  Voice communication is not available here, so Namco provided an alternative. You can choose from 
 predetermined phrases like, Hello, OK, and That Was Fast!. This comes with some good and 
 bad results. One of the good results is the fact that these phrases are translated depending on 
 which region youre playing in. So if you say, That Was Fast!, then the Japanese players will 
 see the same phrase in their native tongue, allowing for better communication through the language 
 barrier. Unfortunately, Namco didnt think of everything when they created the list of phrases. 
 While racing online, Ive seen multiple players cheating by standing still in the middle of the 
 road, or slamming on their breaks in a turn just to throw you off. If the leader of the room doesnt 
 catch this, they wont kick them. Meanwhile, there is no phrase like, Kick this player, hes cheating!. 
 On the other hand though, you wont get cursed at and called names while playing online like so 
 many other games. 
  
  Another great feature of the online functionality is the ticker at the bottom of the screen that 
 is viewable while in any of the menus. As long as youre connected to internet, the PS3 updates 
 with the latest data from the RR7 server, and scrolls the names of the top racers from around the 
 world. It also scrolls the interviews taken from gamers for completing the Special Events mentioned 
 previously. Let me tell you, the idea of your name scrolling across the television screens of Ridge 
 Racer players around the world is great incentive to continue playing this game. 
  
  The graphics are about what one would expect a PS3 launch title to present. They are beautiful 
 to be sure, but not much better than what the 360 did with Ridge Racer 6. Obviously though, its 
 the best looking Ridge Racer in the series. The lighting effects on the various tracks are wonderfully 
 rendered. Light bounces off of the moist cavern walls on the Mist Caves track, where you are taken 
 behind a rushing waterfall. Multi-colored lights lining the tunnels in certain tracks really show 
 off the power of the Playstation 3 when they bounce off of your machines paint job. The vapor 
 trail effects of the tail lights in dark tunnels and while using nitrous are also wonderfully done. 
 The initial Press Start screen before the main menu sports the best graphics though, which plays 
 camera tours of vehicles, and a photo shoot of the lovely spokes-model of the series. 
  
  The sound is unfortunately less than par when compared to the rest of this games presentation. 
 The surround sound does a wonderful job of letting you know when a car is directly behind or beside 
 you, but if they are in front, the engine sound fades quickly. The screeching of tires and engine 
 sounds emitting from your own vehicle are much louder than they should be, and overshadow the rest 
 of the sound effects in the game. The music is a compilation of House\Techno that all sound alike 
 and are so repetitive that youll eventually just turn the music off altogether. Namco didnt allow 
 us to use our own library of Mp3s either. However, on the upside, the announcer during the races 
 is an energetic female who can have the ability at times to get the player as excited as she is. 
 Not only is she hyper, she is also mean at times, screaming things like Youre in last place! 
 Youre a LOSER!. This can funny, but at the same time, anyone who is new to racing games could 
 be turned off by it. 
  
  Drifting in a video game has never been easier. Letting your foot off of the gas as you curve into 
 a corner, then slamming it back down again initiates a drift, which is automatic and comically 
 unrealistic. Ridge Racer has never been a simulation in any way, and this has not changed here. 
 This game is all about accuracy and flawlessness, as skimming a wall can bring you to a dead stop, 
 where most other games would have just slowed you down a bit. Hitting another car, or a wall, will 
 have detrimental effects on your overall standing in a race, and may cause you to retry the same 
 event multiple times until you get it right. 
  
  Slipstreaming is a wonderful addendum to the series, as it adds some much needed tactics to the 
 gameplay. By staying behind someone, you can gain a boost of speed due to the lack of wind resistance. 
 Now, this might not be revolutionary to the genre, but its the best use of the feature Ive seen 
 thus far. Unlike most racing games, (simulations included) , you can actually feel the slipstream 
 here. Youll sense a moment of friction when you push yourself into someone elses slipstream, 
 and getting back out again, which sometimes results in some messy crashes. However, once you master 
 this art, then this will become a necessary blessing to win the later matches, and could turn the 
 tide on some close competitions. Good luck wiping the smug smile off of a friend who just slingshot 
 himself from your slipstream to the lead just before the finish line. 
  
  Slipstreaming alone will not win the race. Nitrous is also required to go anywhere in Ridge State. 
 Nitrous is charged by various means depending on the upgrades the player uses. It is up to he or 
 she which customization is right for them. The same can be said about all machine customizations, 
 as they can all have specific effects on things like grip, handling, speed, and drifting angles. 
 
  
  The machines themselves are very well designed, and look futuristic. Even the names of the cars, 
 and manufacturers themselves sound realistic, like Bisonte and Danza. The further you go in 
 the Grand Prix mode, the more obscure vehicles you can unlock as well, like a hovercraft and even 
 a jet engine on wheels. These are cars that are in the testing stage and arent available to any 
 of your in-game rivals, excluding online opponents of course. Altogether, there is a wonderful 
 selection of cars, more than enough to satisfy even the most hardcore of racing fans. 
  
  If only the same could be said about the tracks. I have not played Ridge Racer 6, but from what 
 Ive seen and heard, the tracks are exactly the same for both games. However, if you havent played 
 it yourself, then this wont be an issue. The issue is the fact that there are only about 20 different 
 tracks to choose from. A lot of which seem to look like others, and only a good three or four of 
 them are extremely fun. The others can become boring and repetitive quickly. 
  
  With an online mode that draws the player with notoriety as the bribe, a seemingly unlimited amount 
 of competitions, the ability to max out Manufacturer Points for all of the companies available, 
 and car customization, Ridge Racer 7 has the ability to stand against the other existing racing 
 franchises and survive. If youre a racing fan, then this is a wonderful addition to your PS3 library. 
 However, if youre not a fan of this genre, then go try Flatout 2, because this game probably wont 
 convert you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxPantherxx
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jan 1, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game is going to be a love it or hate it game. Some people wont like it because it's an arcade 
 racing game. Other people (me) won't like it because this arcade racer is pathetic compared to Burnout.
 
  
  The gameplay is the biggest flaw of the game, because its the same exact engine since the early 
 Ridge Racers
  
  however, the graphics are flatout an amazing showpiece for the PS3, the level designs are unique, 
 the car designs are cool, etc.
  
  The sound sounds the same, the voice acting is cheesy, and the techno music is repetitive
  
 
  The online play is great and fun, but the lack of a headset really kills it.
  
  overall, is this game worth it for racing fans? Not Really, only Ridge Racer fans should pick this 
 one up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAgreatest255
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2006 7:27 am PT
Review:  This game always screams in your face saying Im really fast true theory though, but I don`t like 
 the fact that you have to drift really tight to get your meter up, but hey, who doesn`t like challenges? 
 And the courses rock hard!!!! but is too. You have to drift in almost every turn, and the controlls 
 are really twitchy, and hard when your doing it, Because in one false move, and you are packing away 
 backwards, and is really hard to turn around especially when there is cars racing at you at 200 
 mph, about to run you over, and it is really hard to catch up to people without nitrous, because it 
 seems they go faster than us, and they do, when you advance in the game, and lastly, is buying cars... It 
 takes awile to buy something because you barley get any money, even when you finish 1st... And you 
 start off with more than 5 cars, but you don`t start off with money to buy one, plus you get sponsored 
 if you are good enough, You up for it?
  
  OVERALL: A fun, but slightly hard to play game, is a must get for a racing game fans, and if you were 
 lucky enough to get a PLAYSTATION 3, like few of others, who could afford it too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Khale77
Rating: 2.5
Date: Dec 27, 2006 11:30 am PT
Review:  I bought this game on gamespot's recomendation sight unseen and was bitterly dissapointed. Poor 
 sound, cartoonish graphics and gameplay that can only be described as remedial. All I had to do 
 to win a race was coast around corners with whatever car I chose its a sad excuse for a racing 
 game the cars behave more like mariocarts then real race cars and the tracks are unchallenging 
 and boring.
  
  Lets add to this the fact that the camera doesn't adjust for hill climbs so you have to guess what 
 the road is going to when going up hill. This might be the dev's idea of challenging but its my 
 idea of bad design.
  
  When I can play need for speed or GT4 on the PS2 and have a far better gaming experience why should 
 I subject myself to this tripe? There are far better games on the PS3 don't buy this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2006 2:40 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer is back, with more courses and new cars. I personally own both X360 and PS3, so I've 
 played both RR6 and RR7, they are quite look alike at a first glance, but you will eventually found 
 RR7 is a much improved one from RR6. don't get me wrong, RR6 is a great game, but here's what RR7 
 did improved.
  first thing you will notice is the few new courses and few new car models.
  then you will find the overall resolution is a bit higher than RR6, I played both RR6 and RR7 with 
 the same TV by the setting of 1080i, and I'd say RR7 is a more higher resolution game.
  for the sound, the engine sound just got EMPHASIZED, I don't think it's just me, but the engine 
 sound just become louder and more zoom-zoom.
  final, the split stream system encourage you to drive behind cars, which give more speed, and with 
 probability getting hit some rear-bumpers.
  overall, RR7 is a nice game, featured online play, and never-seen-in-series costomization options, 
 I think it's a must buy for all drifting junkies 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ziegfried
Rating: 3.8
Date: Dec 11, 2006 12:04 pm PT
Review:  8.0? 8.0? You got to be kidding. This game does not deserve it. Ridge Racer 7 is an arcade racing 
 game everybody got it, but even for an arcade racing this gameplay is too much of an absurd. It's 
 ridiculous to see the car cornering without loosing speed. The Square button is there for nothing 
 since you don't need to brake the car to make perfect cornerings. This game is a NASA simulator, 
 that's what it is, since the car goes from 0 to a lightspeed. Yes, there are some sense of speed, 
 but there's no sense of presence: You don't feel like your vehicle is at the ground. You don't 
 feel like it has a weight or if there is some force called gravity. It fits for Delorean job. Only 
 rent this game. Wanna buy something? Buy a pizza! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kily0
Rating: 8.9
Date: Dec 10, 2006 8:11 am PT
Review:  This Is a is Excellent game for the launch Title but some people Might find this boring (NoT Me 
 ^-^)
  
  Ridge Racer 7 is a great launch title for the ps3 and resistance ( i got them both for ps3) but 
 it might wear out for some people and the online can be a little more replay value the sound is 
 great and the graphics in the backgrounds one of ridge racers specialty
  The gameplay is just the usual crazy drifting at 170 mph and with crazy tracks but some u will 
 find in the previous one i give it 9.0 I recommend it for people who like crazy drifting action 
 with crazy tracks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jera372
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2006 5:25 am PT
Review:  Rige Racer 7 is a pretty good game. The graphics are outstanding and I was very pleased with the 
 way it came out. The arcade portion of RR is very hard. You would be luck if you came in 12th place 
 on that one. You are provided with a power boost. Once it fills up it will start to glow and all 
 you would have to do is floor it. There are plenty cars to choose from. You can customize the cars 
 and buy parts for it. I am giving this game an 8.0. It's a fun game that you can play for hours. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 9.6
Date: Dec 4, 2006 2:54 pm PT
Review:  When my friend purchased this game for me for my birthday, i didnt know what to expect. When i 
 popped it into my powerful PS3, i knew this game was going to be excellent. So... just to get it 
 over with, the graphics in this game are some of the most beautiful i have ever seen. The detail 
 in the world and the cars is simply amazing. A downside is that in two-player, the graphics resemble 
 that of PS2. But in single player and online they are amazing. The sound in this game is also incredible 
 too, if you have played JSRF, then you will love the soundtrack. The races are also awesome, with 
 the excellent drifting system and awesome car selection. All-in-all, if you own a PS3, you most 
 likely own Ridge Racer 7. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7.4
Date: Dec 3, 2006 9:20 am PT
Review:  Ridge Racer comes back home to Sony for Ridge Racer 7. overall the gameplay is the same with a 
 few added touches that make nay fan be pleased.
  
  gamplay - arcade style, crazy music, wild drifting what this game is about. the AI I think got 
 better and more levels are harder. this year you have the option to have wither 1, 2, or 3 nitro's. 
 the difference being the length of each. also you get to try out the syaxixs controller, but to 
 no success its really hard. sure its cool playing one handed but it takes a mastery skill to perfect 
 that.
  
  online - I have a great time, with no lag, lots of people to compete with... oh yeah I CAN NEVER 
 WIN!! the Japanese and the Koreans have this game on lock, so unless I play against other Americans 
 I'm not going to win.
  
  overall - if your a fan of the series you probably bought the game and have no need for a review. 
 I rented the game because it was exactly what i though it was and I wasn't going to spend $60 for 
 it.
  
  none the less this a good game, that has little replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.2
Date: Dec 2, 2006 11:21 am PT
Review:  If you're looking for a Racing game I think this is the best game from the Launch Line up to get. 
 This is where the actual drifting takes place using the sixaxis feels natural drifting in this 
 game. Is not as difficult as it is in NFS Carbon. Which is the other game that's available in the 
 PS3 line up. The graphics look pretty good but there's could be some improvments in the future 
 for Ridge racer games. Good game to have for you collection if you're looking for a racer. This 
 game will definitely keep you occuppied as well with the World Wide Racing all over the world in 
 the game. This is a pretty good game to have if you have own your PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 8.9
Date: Nov 29, 2006 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Ridge Racer 7 is the 2nd game i have gotten for my ps3 (just got it yesterday) . it is overall a 
 solid game. graphics are clear and crisp. frame rate is great. It almost seems the car customization 
 could be a little more better. The online is very fun to play, good modes and very diffidcult to 
 beat the other people. there are a couple of small glithces in the game, but just merely going 
 around a corner, and see into the wall, but thats about it. i am very satisfied and play both this 
 and resistance very much. This is my review of Ridge Racer 7 for the Playstation 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Legend_of_Japan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Nov 25, 2006 8:23 pm PT
Review:  if u want to ask where to find the golden plates contact me in gamespot and back to the game its 
 the best whet to come the graphics and the enviroment is the best and now motion sensiored controllers 
 yeah... 360 doesnt have that keep turning on and off ur stupid x box ok while i turn slighty when 
 my controller truning yeahhhhhhh!!!!!!!! its the game to get with psp its just a fun game but when 
 u beat it i get bored its good but not after u beat it. acutaly u cant do anything after you beat 
 it so yea.... unless u play online, but thats it, not even close to GRAND TURISMO ok 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blowoutcomb333
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 24, 2006 9:29 am PT
Review:  Well let me start by saying that I have owned each of the Sony consoles at their respective launch 
 dates, and this title was purchased each time. On PS one I was blown away by the graphics, mechanics, 
 and the fact you could swap out the disc and put your own cd in the PS one (ahh the glorious days 
 of Red Book Audio discs) . With the PS2, well you got a Rock n Roll version of Ridge Racer, not 
 my favorite soundtrack of the series but good. And now we have the PS3 version in our mits. I think 
 out of the three launch title Ridge Racers, this one has the most style and personality. The tracks 
 are beautifully rendered, with an occasional hiccup in frame rate in the higher tv resolution settings. 
 Sorta reminds me when you set your pc resolution higher to look pretty but in turn sacrifice the 
 frame rate. But it's hardly noticable. There's a great selection of cars and customization with 
 namco based themes which is cool. Part developers such as Yoshimitsu, Astaroth tires, Dig Dug, 
 and Galaxian. Some of which have decals that show like Pacman or whatever on your car. I really 
 enjoy the mechanics, which has slightly changed due to the nitro boost, and double or triple nitro 
 boosts. The slipstream mechanic makes the races seem even, but it isn't like you could take a lower 
 class car against a high class car and expect to have a chance ( found that out online all too quickly) . 
 But these mechanics seem to make for exciting races especially online. The sound department is 
 excellent. Same ol Ridge Racer sounds. But I am a fan of the music since the beginning of the series. 
 Being a DJ, I recognize that the underground music label Nite Grooves bring you the tunes as well 
 as original Namco music. Nite Grooves is primarily a house music division, but they have included 
 Drum n Bass, Ambient, Techno, Soulful House, West Coast House, Hard House, all in the genre of electronica. 
 This is defintely a game for DJ's especially when you nitro boost off a ramp and the music actually 
 does a filter like when a DJ filters a track on a mixer. This is what I feel makes the game stylish 
 and mesmerizing. Another aspect I like is in the online functions. The game gives you a sense that 
 you belong to a Racing League so it has a built in sports ticker or a ridge racer ticker rather, 
 which shows players that have achieved new ranks, players who've just completed the game, and so 
 forth. When you complete the game , you are interviewed and the comments you post will be showcased 
 for players to read online. Very cool ! The game does feel a bit short, but that's not including 
 if you've got all the cars, and manufactered part companies unlocked. If you continually race with 
 a specific manufacturer, they discount the parts for you. All in all this Ridge Racer has lots 
 to do, looks pretty, sounds great, and still maintains that RR charm. Great launch title pick it 
 up ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Nov 20, 2006 7:25 pm PT
Review:  I have been out of the videogame racing seen for awhile. This game has brought me back too the 
 seen. I love ridge racer. It is the best i hgave played for a long time. I like that every race 
 that you complete goes online and the way they set up the game. The graphics look great as long 
 as you have a HDTV they look even better. Need for speed yes has some great games but i really 
 like that ridge racer takes their time to produce a quallity game. The game handels well around 
 corners. the drifting system is prrtty sensitive but nice after you get the hang of the controls. 
 The one flaw i see with it is the sound tracks i hate them they seem so repeditive, and they take 
 away from game play. The game is challenging and it takes a little getting used to, but after you 
 get into it it is a great game over all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linkme
Rating: 7.4
Date: Nov 18, 2006 7:29 pm PT
Review:  I was ready to be impresed but i was sadly disapointed the gameplay was almost exactly the same. 
 Still a fairly good game but just fails to thrill me. The Arcade mode is always good fun but just 
 does not have the life span. This game is only meant for true fans, and the price should be lowered 
 so that it matches the true value of the game.
  
  I hope they can improve the gameplay a bit so the tracks have a bit more twist, like adding in 
 short cuts, big jumps, and most importantly damage. I would like to see more cars and heaps of 
 modding, and more detail into everything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seaniel
Rating: 8.7
Date: Nov 18, 2006 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Namco is perhaps the king at pioneering their AV quality. Of course no one doubted that Ridge Racer 
 7 would be pretty, particularly gracing this amazing example of gaming technology. But skeptics 
 of Ridge Racer still bring their same arguments. The gameplay is not varied and rewarding enough. 
 There are better, or will be, and that this game is not worth $60 for a few races. Your arguments 
 are heard, but rendered inaccurate.
  
  Indeed, the racing is rather simple, and the tracks will be quite familiar to you after just a 
 few days with this. One does not play Ridge Racer for the same experience as Gran Turismo. And 
 in that sense, Ridge Racer 7 does what it does perfectly: Simulate real speed and real fun. If 
 you don't get a thrill out of this experience, then check your pulse, you may be dead. That said, 
 it's also false to assume that Ridge Racer 7 has nothing new or varied to offer. For you Gran Tursimo 
 fans, there's a tuning feature. It may not be as excessively detailed as yours, but it's robust 
 enough to get the job done and make you feel as though your pretty ride is your own. That brings 
 us to the other feature, online play. As of date of writing this, the number of challengers is 
 obviously close to nothing. In time, this will be a time consumer, offering racers all over the 
 world to compare their best times, rank in next to the best players, and of course race against 
 other players. In the test I made of this, I experienced only slight lag loading the race, and 
 then a completely smooth and fulfilling ride the rest of the way. In this sense, Ridge Racer number 
 7 is the largest in the series, along with its massive selection of beautifully rendered cars. 
 If step up to the line for nothing but instant gratification, the experience may seem shallow. 
 But delve beneath the surface, and you'll find a whole world of satisfying racing that the gaming 
 realm has deserved for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKiba
Rating: 6.8
Date: Nov 18, 2006 10:20 am PT
Review:  i played this game for about a week while at a friends house in Sacramento . and realized that 
 it is very repetitive. Although the games graphics and sound quality are pretty close to amazing, 
 it seems that you keep on doing the same races over. Xbox 360 tried Ridge Racer and it turned out 
 the same way, although ps3's graphics are better by a bit. Its a great game but it's very repetitive. 
 60 dollars is quite a price for a game, and this one dosent seem to meet a value of 60, maybe 30 
 or 35.
  
  
  In my opinion, wait for the next Grand Turismo or if you want to live ridge racer, rent it first. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swishahoops
Rating: 5.8
Date: Nov 15, 2006 9:25 pm PT
Review:  If Youve played any of the other ridge racers before like the one on the psp you wont notice too 
 much of a difference...
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay wise dont expect to see too much more expect too much more from this game except 
 the online mode. Of course the ps3 isnt out yet but there is a couple of people online i got to 
 link up with to start a game i guess its okay online but its no gran turismo
  
  Graphics: Pretty decent for the most part. Wheres the gran turismo or killzone killer graphics 
 the ps3 is suppose to display? the graphics in this game arent bad but they arent amazing., where 
 alot of you peoples expectations are probaly already at Sound: Well the soundtrack is corny put 
 it like that. your gonna fiind yourself using your custom soundtracks playing during the game rather 
 than listening to the real game. The engine sounds are so unrealistic i know its a unrealistic 
 game. but it sounds like i could have got a better sound off of a ps1 game
  
  Closing Comments: overall this game is pretty mediocre. If your just getting a ps3 and are trying 
 to decide on a game to get i would not reccomend this game at all.. at most rent this game but dont 
 waste your money on this game its just not worth it id say get the shooter game thats out now that 
 game is good but this game? no. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
