-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rise of the Argonauts
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/riseoftheargonauts/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Combat is fast-paced and satisfying.
 Superb character-progression system.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Way too much walking and talking.
 Quality of animation is inconsistent.
 Frame rate drops dramatically for no obvious reason.
 Poor voice acting not helped by sloppy sound design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  7, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6
Critic Score: 6.0, 26 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 164 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Codemasters
Developer: Liquid Ent.
Genre: Action Role-Playing
Date: Dec 16, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jason spends too much time talking and not nearly enough time fighting in this Greek mythology-inspired 
 action-RPG. 

  Loosely based on the same Greek myth that inspired the 1963 movie  Jason and the Argonauts , Rise 
 of the Argonauts is an action-oriented role-playing game in which you assume the role of King Jason 
 of Iolcus and go in search of the legendary Golden Fleece. All manner of monsters stand between 
 you and your prize, and doing battle with them is a lot of fun. The same can't be said for all 
 of the time you have to spend wandering around and talking to other characters, unfortunately, 
 and the wildly inconsistent frame rate makes even the stop-motion special effects in the aforementioned 
 movie look silky smooth by comparison.  

           Tragically, you spend more time conversing than you do in combat.      

  Rise of the 
 Argonauts gets off to a shaky start. The assassination of Jason's bride on their wedding day in 
 the intro sequence ensure that the story is instantly compelling, but poor voice acting, awkward 
 camera angles, questionable animation (Jason negotiating stairs is a must-see for all the wrong 
 reasons) , and numerous visual quirks waste no time in conspiring against it. Furthermore, there's 
 not much combat early on, so much of your time is spent trying to navigate Jason's labyrinthine 
 palace and conversing with guards who, save for their different-colored uniforms, all look identical. 
 Iolcus, like the handful of other locations you'll visit after acquiring the Argo, affords very 
 few opportunities for exploration, but it still manages to be confusing enough in its design that 
 you need to refer to the crudely drawn map to locate mission objectives in a timely fashion.  

 
  The high point of Rise of the Argonauts is undoubtedly the combat; Jason is skilled in the use 
 of swords, spears, and maces, and he carries one of each as well as a shield at all times. The 
 controls are uncomplicated and responsive, and it's good that they're the same no matter which 
 weapon you're wielding, because you're encouraged to switch between them on the fly. None of the 
 enemies are particularly intelligent, but they're varied enough that you need to employ different 
 weapons and strategies to get the better of them. Your spear can be used to keep overly aggressive 
 enemies at a distance, while your mace is a good choice for destroying the shields of enemies attempting 
 to hide behind them, for example. Putting your own indestructible shield to good use is crucial 
 early on, but as you progress you become much more powerful and can spend more time on the offensive. 

  Interestingly, you need to go into the options menu if you want any kind of heads-up display for 
 your health during combat. By default, you're supposed to look for visual clues such as blood on 
 the clothing of Jason and his allies to know when they're in trouble, but the combat is so fast-paced 
 that this isn't always possible. Adding the HUD makes it much easier to know when Jason's health 
 is low, though it's not always important because, in keeping with his mythological status, he's 
 a tough guy to keep down. When your health drops to zero you don't die; rather, you enter a "state 
 of grace" in which the screen blurs and you have 10 seconds or so to avoid taking any more damage 
 before you regenerate around half of your health. You'll die if you sustain a single hit during 
 that time, but there are very few enemies who can keep up as you frantically run and roll around. 

           Aspects are a great way to customize Jason's abilities according to your play style.  
     

  There are a number of ways in which you become a more formidable fighter as the story progresses. 
 You'll be joined by a handful of allies who will fight alongside you two at a time, you'll be able 
 to add more powerful weapons and armor to your arsenal, and you'll learn new abilities by gaining 
 favor with the gods Ares, Apollo, Athena, and Hermes. Each of the four gods has a skill tree composed 
 of around 25 different "aspects" arranged into tiers so that more powerful ones become available 
 only late in the game. The aspects vary a great deal and include both passive abilities and god 
 powers that must be triggered manually in combat. Passive abilities include things like regenerating 
 health anytime you kill an enemy, doing more damage to shields, and making your allies more powerful. 
 God powers, which are fun but rarely needed outside of the most challenging difficulty mode, include 
 temporary effects such as increased damage, explosions, and the ability to turn enemies into stone. 

  To purchase any given aspect you need to earn enough favor with the appropriate god to unlock it, 
 which can be an interesting challenge in itself. The most obvious way to earn favor with gods is 
 by dedicating to them any deeds you've accomplished. You can do this at shrines scattered throughout 
 the world or, less elegantly, via an option in the pause menu. When you dedicate a deed to one 
 of the gods, you earn an amount of favor proportional to the scale of your accomplishment. Settling 
 a dispute among two traders is unlikely to impress in the same way that lopping off the heads of 
 25 enemies is, for example. The second way to curry favor with a god is by selecting dialogue choices 
 that are clearly labeled as being appreciated by them. This can make the act of choosing dialogue 
 a mechanical one if you care more about pleasing a specific god than you do about your interaction 
 with whomever you're talking to, but the conversations feel so unnatural anyway that this is as 
 good a way as any to get through them quickly.  

  It's unfortunate that so much of your time in Rise of the Argonauts is spent in conversation, because 
 much of the dialogue is poorly written and the voice acting is even worse. It's conceivable that 
 one is the victim of the other, but certainly neither deserves any credit for keeping the story 
 compelling. Even on the rare occasions that the script and the actors work well together, poor 
 sound design results in unnatural pauses and in volume levels that compete with background noise 
 or have you reaching for your TV remote. The lack of believable expressions on characters' faces 
 doesn't help matters, nor do the load screens that frequently appear at the most inopportune times -- occasionally 
 so quickly after a piece of dialogue that there's some doubt as to whether or not the character 
 talking was even allowed to finish.  

           Combat is fast-paced and satisfying, but there isn't enough of it.      

  To say that 
 Rise of the Argonauts has pacing issues would be an understatement of Olympian proportions; so 
 much of your time is spent running around and talking to people that combat feels like a rare treat 
 rather than a focus of the game. It's a real shame that getting to the end of this adventure is 
 as much a test of patience as it is a test of skill, because the combat gets increasingly satisfying 
 as your arsenal of moves and equipment grows. It's true that only boss encounters will pose any 
 real challenge on the default difficulty setting toward the end, but by then that feels appropriate 
 because you're wielding godlike weapons and powers that can literally call down lightning from 
 the heavens. With a greater emphasis on combat and fewer technical shortcomings, Rise of the Argonauts 
 could have been easy to recommend. As it is, though, this is a great story poorly told.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (11 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: dreadedlyfe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  First off, let me go ahead and get this out of the way, I am a fan of Greek mythology. Yes, this 
 game is a bit wordy, but it flows fairly naturally. The fighting is pretty sweet, the visual aspect 
 isn't top notch but very decent. It is an RPG, but the way you go about "leveling" is very nice. 
 You have achievements that unlock buffs and skills and god powers. The constellations are where 
 you keep track of your achievements and its pretty cool filling them in. You can kind of get a 
 heads up of whats coming your way by checking the constellations. 
  
  Overall, I think that the game needed a little more combat to even things out in the talk/kill 
 things ratio, but at least this isn't a button masher. The only other complaint that I have is 
 that the FPS will drop a bit every great once in a while. Voice acting was not great, but not bad, 
 just on par. Still, all in all, an easy game to get lost in for hours if your not careful. I would 
 say buy this just for the sheer time stealing effect of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omanitspete
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:50 pm PT
Review:  I was really hoping this was going to be an awesome game but.... it wasn't. I like the whole concept 
 of Greek mythology. I mean who doesn't love talking goat-man thing? My problem was with the game 
 play itself.
  
  Good Stuff
  *The characters (letting you pick your team)
  *Slow motion kills (kinda repetitive though)
  
  Bad Stuff
  *WAAAAAAAAAAY to short. What was 
 it like 5lvls?
  *Dialogue (crappy voice acting) plus who are they looking at when they talk?? creeepy -_-*
  *NO 
 MINI MAP!!! sooo annoying. have to press start and look at it every two mins.
  *Almost useless god powers. Never really came in handy besides the healing.
  *Last but not least 
 the story. This game reminds me of the end of like Hercules the Disney movie. This entire game 
 was 10mins out of Hercules the Movie XD........ saaaad.
  
  Well I guess I would have to tell you. Don't go out and purchase this game. I rented this game 
 and I still think 6 bucks is too much for this. My advice would be find the losers who actually 
 bought this game and borrow it from them. haha don't take this seriously ppl it's just my opinion. 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grennterror
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:45 am PT
Review:  I just finished playing ARGONAUTS? and I am totally blown away. I would like to take this opportunity 
 to congratulate all the team for creating such a GREAT game. Wonderful graphics, soft and beautiful 
 music, a love story, an adventure with lots of action and details, map big enough that we don't 
 have to search for hours to find our way, the Greek mythology, the Gods and the deeds we give them 
 in exchange for power, the fact that you put King Jason with Hercules, Achille and the others BRILLIANT. 
 My only question is have you thought about a sequel like Hercules' or Achille's story? That would 
 be awesome.
  
  Thank you for this wonderful game and keep up the good work. I am giving you a 9/10 for it and, 
 hasn't been for the sometimes long dialogues and the not obvious way of chosing our arms, it would 
 have been a 10 :) :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2009 5:25 pm PT
Review:  First off, WOW I was blown away by this game, it has a fantastic story, great combat, some pretty 
 good boss fights and is all around fun to play.
  
  You play as Jason, king of the Argonauts. Your kingdom is attacked right off the bat where the 
 Blacktounges kill your wife and from there on, the game sets off on a fantastic journey.
  
  The game has you traveling to 5 different places (not including where you start at) , most of the 
 places you go to have to finding a descent of one of the gods in order to get to be able to reach 
 the golden fleece to bring your wife back from the dead.
  
  You can choose which place you want to go to first, so its not a 100% direct path as to where you 
 must go, and each place you visit is visually stunning to look at and has an interesting story 
 behind its people that inhabit that place.
  
  Sadly to say, the game does have some downsides. Even with the install the game does still take 
 quite a long time to load (which, for me isn't a big deal but I know it is for others) the camera 
 also can be pretty annoying at times, and sometimes if your too close to an object that you cant 
 walk through, an invisible barrier will get you stuck so you have to walk around not only the object 
 but the invisible barrier as well.
  
  You also get a good amount of different weapons as well. you have a spear, mace, and sword but 
 throughout your journey you acquire so many different swords maces and spears which will leave 
 you wondering "should i take this one, or the new one instead?" and same goes for armor. Each new 
 armor you acquire is vastly better then the last and keeps the game fresh and interesting with 
 your appearance.
  
  you also get a good number of people to help you. Hercules, Achilles, Pan, and Atalanta. Each of 
 them have there own unique abilities and at times can be pretty helpful but at other times are 
 as dumb as a rock.
  
  The story of this game will keep you hooked and will make you want to keep playing without stopping 
 which for me is a good thing, because not many games can do that to me anymore.
  
  Overall I enjoyed this game and almost everything about it except for the small stuff that I mentioned 
 earlier. 
  
  if you love Action RPG's, hack and slash games, or Greek Mythology then this game will be a great 
 addition to your collection. 
  
  I give Rise of the Argonauts a 9 out of 10. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Octavivs
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 12, 2009 4:21 pm PT
Review:  This was a very enjoyable game and gameplay is similar in some respects to Star Wars Knights of 
 the Old Republic. Although, this seemed a much shorter game and the gameworld was much more fixed. 
 I very much enjoyed the story, but the game really didn't deliver a finale that closed the story 
 well. In fact, there wasn't much of a finale at all. I was also surprised that there isn't much 
 of tutorial, so if you like to play right out of the box, and not read the manual, you may miss 
 some items. 
  
  This game is a bit confusing because it is obvious that a great deal of detail was put into the 
 game, yet in some areas it is totally lacking. There are still parts of the game that I didn't 
 use or understand such as the "stars" menu. 
  
  The story evolves well, but there are many inconsistencies and you finish the game having no clue 
 what really happened. I initially was looking forward to the game becaue I love ancient history 
 and mythology, but this story is a modern fantasy. That was a bit of a disappointment for me as 
 you would never guess it by the marketing. I enjoyed this game and if I could do things over , 
 I still would buy it, but perhaps when the price came down a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2009 11:46 pm PT
Review:  When this was first announced I had very high expectations but after I bought it and tried out 
 the first few minutes I was totally disillusioned. I shelved the game for a few weeks and just 
 recently made the resolution to trade it in towards my SF IV reservation. But before I did I thought 
 I'd give it one more chance. I popped it in expecting to tire of it quickly and have it traded 
 by noon.
  
  I played it for 4 hours.
  
  Ok, there are some graphical issues. Strictly speaking it is just not up to PS3/360 standards. 
 It is comically pathetic to see Jason run downstairs. Not being able to look up at the sky is kind 
 of annoying. Having to run ALL over the palace again and again IS annoying. But despite all of 
 that this game is FUN. Really fun.
  
  Some reviewers have lamented the character interaction in the game. Too much talking is the common 
 complaint. I fall into the old school RPG demographic. I actually like talking to characters and 
 fleshing out stories. In any decent story fighting is an element, not the entire narrative. And 
 speaking of the story I was hooked almost immediately following the tutorial, which was sadly where 
 I stopped the first time. 
  
  Musically the game is amazing. If you liked the music in Gladiator expect to love this score. It 
 does get a little repetitive but only when you're not involved in plot advancement.
  
  This is not the game of the year... or even the game of the month, but if you give it some time 
 I think you'll find it has the power to draw you in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ace3507
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  rise of the Argonauts is a totally freaking awesome game the no HUD idea was done before but rise 
 of the Argonauts adds it's own pleasant twist to it. the graphics are good on the characters and 
 environments but some textures look like a ps2 game. but those are super rare to find. the color 
 is awesome it's been a while since i have seen so many vivid colors in a game. 
  
  the battle sequences are awesome the stylized way o fighting is very good in immersing you. you 
 can see all of the special attributes 
  that you bought from the gods which is good unlike other games where your attack increases by 4 
 atk points and it looks exactly the same. the story gets more interesting as you keep playing more 
 characters are introduced some are double agents. the game has been getting okay reviews but don't 
 listen to them it's a must buy. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordmasterrof
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  So what if IGN give it a bad score, they suck anyway! :P
  
  Rise of the Argonauts it's a fun game, and there is no discussion in that. 
  
  It has a good 
 and simple story: You play as King Jason, who looses his wife Alceme on their wedding day. Your 
 wife gets assassinated, and you want revenge, but you notice their is an item called The Golden 
 Fleece that can bring her back to life!
  
  This brings you out to the world of Greece, in many different areas, that all look different.
 
  
  It has nice graphics, but sometimes it can actually mess up abit which is kinda sad and would be 
 my only complain, but beside that, music is great, gameplay is fun, and the story is really good 
 :)
  
  I don't wanna go to much into detail, cause there is no reason for that! This is definitely a game 
 worth picking up ! It is just plain fun, and if you like Hack'n'slash games, with some RPG in it, 
 this is the way to go! It's really good! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingu33
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 4, 2009 8:28 pm PT
Review:  I've always been a fan of Greek Mythology, and it's been about 20 years since a real mythology 
 game (Battle of Olympus) has been out for a console, I was very excited to hear about this game 
 and bought it the day it came out. Massive mistake, this game will be in the bargain bins very 
 soon. It wasn; t horrible, just the cons outweigh the pros.
  
  Good:
  - Great story
  - Awesome characters
  - Classic Greek mythology aspects sprinkled throughout the game
  - Great 
 dialogue and voice acting
  
  Bad:
  -Waaaaaay too short, and there were only 5 places in the entire game.
  -No mini map made it frustrating.
 
  -Only like 4 different types of enemies not including bosses (but there werent many of those either.)
 
  -Mindless button mashing made for boring battles.
  -Unbelievably bad ending.
  -So much missing (no hydra, no cerberus, no cyclops, no minotaur, no harpies, no Poseidon..........)
 
  -Lame leveling system.
  
  All in all, it was just okay, but it could have been WAY better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VonFragyou
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  I just got the PS3 version and I have just made it through the training area. I find the game to 
 be fun on the lines of an action RPG like Diablo II, Titan Quest, and Sacred 2. The difference 
 is that you are playing a third person perspective instead of top down view. If you like these 
 sort of games then you will like ROTA. The graphics are average like Mercenaries 2 not cutting 
 edge but not bad. So far I think the reviews are being to tough because they tried to innovate 
 the genera. Maybe when I have spent more hours I will change my mind and lower the review score 
 but for now 8.0 will do. The minimum review is 800 characters long, so this is filler. The minimum 
 review is 800 characters long, so this is filler. The minimum review is 800 characters long, so 
 this is filler. The minimum review is 800 characters long, so this is filler. The minimum review 
 is 800 characters long, so this is filler. The minimum review is 800 characters long, so this is 
 filler. The minimum review is 800 characters long, so this is filler. The minimum review is 800 
 characters long, so this is filler. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jensen973
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:29 am PT
Review:  Since i have first read about this game i was waiting for it, the team that have created it have 
 done a great job.
  
  Story- The Greek Mythology it's a very solid one, all the heroes, all the creatures and the Gods 
 are nicely done and have a very good place in this game. The Black Tongues order are a very nice 
 addition to the story, great history behind them, there are islands that you will visit and probably 
 like very much, everyone of them with her own well defined environment.
  
  Heroes- All the heroes have there own, solid story behind them, and believe me, there are a lot 
 of heroes and nice story to hear about in this game, There abilities are well done.
  
  Weapons- the weapons are many every one it's well defined, the sword it's fast, the spear it's 
 long and can be used to reach enemies at a distance, the experience withe the mace it's abso ... 
 lutly exquisite, the shield it's doing he's work, everything it's nice.
  
  Abilities- There are some very nice abilities, you will see witch, i don't wanna spoil your experience, 
 suffice to say that the Gods are rewarding you at every step.
  
  Graphics- Well, the graphics are looking ok, with the Unreal engine we all now from countless games, 
 but it's doing he's job well, there are some breathtaking views from time to time, the ship it's 
 looking great, the characters are well defined, the fighting scenes are great looking thanks to 
 the slow motion killing blow, and to the effects added to the weapons and spells.
  
  Sound- The sound it's great, good voice acting, from Jason in special, great music, nice sounds 
 in the environment .
  
  Gameplay- I am using a Xbox 360 for Windows Controller to play this game on the pc and i can say 
 that i am satisfied, the camera sometimes it's jumpy, there are some glitches and clippings [A 
 glitch is a short-lived fault in a system.] :D, but there will be probably corrected by a patch, 
 i hope, the gameplay it's linear, go there, do that, the only problem it's that you don't have 
 an ingame minimap, you have to go to menu and see the map, but it's ok anyway, the fights are great 
 as i'v said earlier.
  
  Conclusion: 
  Rise of the Argonauts it's a nice, well done game, there some faults but we can get over them, 
 with a great story and addictive gameplay, with nicely done characters and good music, this game 
 it's the game many have waited for, if you like Greek Mythology and the God of War fighting stile 
 you can buy this game. 
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
