-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/robertludlumsthebourneconspiracy/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Simple, yet immensely satisfying fisticuffs.
 Brutal takedowns.
 Tense music and great sound effects.
 Captures the excitement of the films.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Mediocre gunplay hamstrings replay value.
 Collecting passports to unlock boss fights is tedious.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  6, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.1, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 787 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: High Moon Studios
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 3, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Jason Bourne's quick-fisted head-busting combat style makes the transition to consoles with panache. 
 

  Since the release of  The Bourne Identity  in 2002, Robert Ludlum's titular amnesiac spy has thrilled 
 movie audiences with fast, brutal combat and tense action sequences. When developer High Moon Studios 
 set out to create a game starring Jason Bourne, it drew on the electric choreography of the movies 
 as well as the robust world of Ludlum's novels. Perhaps this is why The Bourne Conspiracy shakes 
 off the mantle of disappointment worn by most movie tie-in games and proves itself worthy of entry 
 into the Bourne canon. The exciting and deeply awesome hand-to-hand combat system expertly captures 
 the pugilistic prowess of the 30-million-dollar weapon and, while complemented by serviceable gunplay 
 and rich environments, is reason enough to get in on this conspiracy.  

  The plot of The Bourne Conspiracy follows Bourne's quest to learn who he is and why heavily armed 
 men are after him, and it's structured around the key action sequences from  The Bourne Identity 
 . Interspersed throughout these familiar missions are playable flashbacks that hark back to the 
 time before Bourne's amnesia when he had no qualms about leaving trails of bodies and bullets en 
 route to his objectives. There are also video cutscenes between missions that, while well produced, 
 just seem to drive home the fact that both Matt Damon and Franka Potente are much more attractive 
 than the prerendered characters that replace them.  

           Same embassy, same bag, different Jason Bourne.      

  In The Bourne Conspiracy, as 
 in the Bourne films, the hand-to-hand fights are fast, exciting, and brutal. The beauty of the 
 combat here is that it doesn't demand any complex user input, so you'll be focused on the immediate 
 action rather than trying to recall elaborate button combinations. There are two attacks available 
 to you -- light and heavy -- and a block button. Attack combos consist of up to three consecutive light 
 or heavy attacks, so there are only eight possible combinations. Throwing these combos down will 
 make up the bulk of your fighting strategy, though you'll occasionally want to unleash a charged 
 attack because the impact is just so satisfying. Getting the controls down is easy, but timing 
 them is a bit trickier. Your opponents attack as vigorously as you do, so it's key that you focus 
 on good fight flow. Interrupting your opponent's assault by blocking and then beating out a smooth 
 cadence of combos on his head and torso is the quickest way to secure your victory.  

  This victory can come by straight-up pummeling, or you can use the adrenaline you've gained by 
 landing successful blows to unleash a takedown. A takedown is a fluid, context-sensitive flurry 
 of blows in which you finish bad guys off in signature Bourne style with efficient, improvisational 
 brutality. It's when you finish your foe off by kicking him down a staircase. It's when you bounce 
 his head off a desk, then punch his head right back down into the desk as he tries to get up. It's 
 when you break a bookshelf, a vending machine, or a glass table with his broken, unconscious body. 
 In short, it's a way to exponentially increase the amount of awesome stuff you can do in combat 
 without increasing the complexity of the controls.  

           The pen is mightier when you use it to stab a guy.      

  Takedowns are such an excellent 
 part of combat that as you come up on enemies and engage in battle, you'll find yourself looking 
 around for objects you could possibly use in environmental takedowns. Thankfully these objects 
 are plentiful and range from a concrete pillar in a parking garage to a fully stacked bookshelf 
 in a library. This is a testament to the thoroughness of the takedown implementation, as well as 
 the richness of the environments. The levels look sharp and are very well populated with everyday 
 objects, but they're not without their flaws. Any noncombatant you encounter is surrounded by an 
 impenetrable invisible shield, and sometimes you'll maneuver an opponent toward a specific object 
 for a takedown only to execute one of the many generic, open-space takedowns. To be fair, these 
 are still pretty satisfying, but you'll notice the repetition as you progress further into the 
 game. You can also charge your adrenaline meter up to the point where you can take down two or 
 three opponents in one fluid sequence. Performing multiple takedowns in a row requires timed button 
 presses, and though these animations also begin to repeat, multiple takedowns happen rarely enough 
 that you'll probably just be psyched to have leveled so many foes so quickly.     

  Timed button presses will occasionally pop up with little to no warning, challenging you to evade 
 a sniper's shot or an assassin's bomb. Getting ambushed by these events keeps the tension running 
 high, and they are infrequent enough that they don't feel bothersome. These timed presses also 
 factor heavily into one of the best parts of the game, the boss fights. Bosses are particularly 
 talented brawlers that not only can survive multiple takedowns, but will try to perform takedowns 
 on you. Boss takedowns can be thwarted with a quick tap of the appropriate button, but if you miss, 
 be prepared to take some substantial damage. Bosses are more resilient than Bourne, and Bourne, 
 who regenerates health when not directly engaged in combat, can regain health only by performing 
 takedowns.  

           The car chase through the streets of Paris is a bit bland, but serves as a nice change 
 of pace.      

  The bosses' toughness actually works in your favor because it gives you a chance to try out the 
 more-plentiful-than-usual takedown possibilities in the boss arena. Each boss fight also features 
 a unique weapon that can be used in a takedown. These are particularly nasty maneuvers inspired 
 by the movies, and they involve such weapons as a pen, a shovel, and a book. Don't fret if you 
 miss out, though, because you can unlock these encounters and then play them right from the menu 
 screen. Unfortunately, to do so you'll need to collect the passports that are strewn about each 
 level. It's not that they're hard to find, but rather that taking your time and searching thoroughly 
 is so un-Bourne that doing so slows down the otherwise fast pacing of the game.  

  There's also a fair amount of gun combat, though it's not nearly as exciting as the hand-to-hand 
 action. You can carry a sidearm (one of numerous pistol variants) and a larger weapon (shotgun 
 or assault rifle) , ducking in and out of cover as you mow your enemies down. Mostly you'll be free 
 aiming, but engaging the Bourne Instinct will highlight your foes and will snap the target reticle 
 to the nearest one. Gun takedowns are far less impressive than their manual counterparts and simply 
 require a timed button press to pull off successfully. The highlight of gunplay is the sound effects, 
 which give each gun a unique timbre and reward headshots with a sickly satisfying thud. While shooting 
 definitely plays second fiddle to fighting, it holds up its part well and doesn't get tiresome 
 until you replay missions trying to collect the passports you need to unlock the eminently replayable 
 boss fights.  

           Bludgeon not, lest ye be bludgeoned.      

  The production values of The Bourne Conspiracy are generally good, with a few notable hiccups. 
 Sound effects are excellent, and you'll be pleasantly surprised by how many noises one man hitting 
 another can yield. The music is also a standout, especially in boss fights, and it helps ramp up 
 the tense excitement of your adventure with the taut urgency of the movie soundtrack. The character 
 models are well detailed and respond to punishment vividly. The only production stumbles you'll 
 see are the occasional camera glitches. For the most part, the camera does a great job of approximating 
 the tightly framed, in-your-face style of the movies, but if it's forced into confined spaces it 
 will sometimes cause Bourne and his enemy to disappear while it tries to reposition itself. There 
 are other awkward hang-ups, like Bourne's inability to step around an obstacle while sprinting, 
 but none of these issues are a great hindrance to your enjoyment of the game.  

  Translating the lightning-quick close-quarters combat of the Bourne films into viscerally satisfying 
 gameplay is no mean feat, but High Moon Studios has done it and done it well. The adventure is 
 a bit short, and the solid gunplay becomes tedious the second time around. Still, the combat system 
 alone makes this game worth playing, and the dramatic moments it creates are the real treat. There's 
 nothing quite like the end of a boss fight when you and your enemy are both bruised and bloody 
 and on the brink of death with the music at a pounding crescendo, and you hammer him with a vicious 
 roundhouse to the face before executing your final, brutal takedown. In exhilarating moments like 
 this you feel like a real badass, and that's what being Jason Bourne is all about.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (50 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: unplaystation
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy pits the player in an involving story, epic battles and numerous bone crushing 
 fisticuffs. 
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy's story allows the player to take control of Jason Bourne, a multimillion 
 dollar government weapon. To discover who he really is, Constantly on the run from assassins and 
 government agents the player gets to relive their favourite parts from the films. Aside from what's 
 originally stolen form the films with a little twist and a different perspective there isn't much 
 to tell that isn't already to familiar to long time fans of the Bourne books and movies, things 
 like love interests, stealth, enemies and a quest for truth. However if you're a newcomer to the 
 series your going to be pleased with the story and all of it's twists and turns, bad guys and nice 
 stealth stories. 
  
  The graphics are so finely polished most of the time it's surprising to see even the slightest 
 off texture, which with some close examining are quite often, things are choppy around the edges 
 of the enemies and building but for the most part are shaded quite nicely and when done right compliment 
 even the worst of graphics so unless your bent on fishing out the flaws in outdated graphics then 
 you should for the most part not be bothered and enjoy the well done gameplay graphics, the really 
 nice part is the cutscenes that have a sort of cell shaded feel to them, this is done wonderfully 
 with one major outstanding flaw, the developers shaded each and every cutscene to the extent that 
 they were almost to dark to make out some of the objects and scenery, Aside form those very few 
 things we were quite pleased with the graphics and they definitely hold there own in competition 
 with some of today's games.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy puts the player in seemingly never ending action with driving, gunplay, fisticuffs, 
 and well timed QuickTime moments, the hand to hand combat scenarios are photorealistic cinematic 
 moments and are so well done they take their place as the most compelling part of the game, each 
 and every punch and kick land with a bone crushing impact complemented by wonderful sound effects. 
 You engage in hand to hand combat by simply walking or running near an enemy, the enemy drops his 
 gun and lifts is fists from there you string together light and heavy blows triggered with the 
 square and triangle button to release stunning combo's and counters. Each punch or kick fills a 
 little bit of your adrenaline bar, the adrenaline bar, when full allows the player to interact 
 with their environments in such a way to takedown their enemies in a single movement, this includes 
 things like slamming the enemy against a railing, throwing them down the stairs or even a few simple 
 blows to the cranium. This seems fun and is quite interesting in the beginning but the combos and 
 takedowns aren't varied enough to have a lasting impact and with the hand to hand combat being 
 the most common it can become quickly repetitive, however the boss battles is where the fun begins, 
 unlocked by collecting passports hidden throughout each level. Each boss exactly like the player 
 can get up from takedowns and can also attack with takedowns these are easily blocked with QuickTime 
 events. 
  Quite often the bosses also use hidden weapons like knifes which cause twice the damage and are 
 harder to dodge making the battles even more fun. The gunplay being the second most often thing 
 is expected to be polished nicely but unfortunately this is not the case, each weapon feels underpowered 
 with almost no recoil, bad sound effects and not much variety, it leaves it feeling as though this 
 part of the game wasn't quite finished. It's just not polished nicely and leaves the player open 
 handed, Takedowns can also be performed with firearms but they are not nearly as satisfying. Thankfully 
 you can depend on hand to hand in almost every situation. The last aspect of the gameplay is the 
 driving which is only presented in one chapter of the game and limits you to one town, and one 
 car. You must escape the cops and ditch the car before your arrested, get to close to the cops 
 for to long and you fail your mission, time runs out and you fail your mission, your car is wrecked 
 and you fail your mission. And just like the gunplay this feels absolutely dry from variety and 
 completely unfinished, with clunky driving mechanics you will dread every second your driving, 
 however there is one nice addition. You can slow down time for better control around corners and 
 through alleyways, activate this by filling up your adrenaline.
  
  The game has a few extras to collect such as cheats, music and addition boss fights. These few 
 things are collected by finding and picking up all of the glowing passports scattered throughout 
 each and every level. But without a multiplayer mode and the flaw of lacking a trophy reward system 
 there isn't much replay value at all unless you never found the hand to hand battles repetitive. 
 The Bourne Conspiracy is definitely worth a play, start to finish if you're a long time fan of 
 Jason Bourne. However like many games available, don't expect much depth at all.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 8, 2009 8:01 am PT
Review:  Jason Bourne makes his console debut with The Bourne Conspiracy. It is action-packed and fun, but 
 it could have been better. 
  
  Gameplay is great. The controls are legitimate, nothing feels awkward. While the controls are basic, 
 Bourne performs complex moves with dramatic camera angles, which make you feel like you're doing 
 something great. Shooting is a bit frustrating. While close range shotguns and headshots will kill 
 an opponent in one shot, some enemies can take six chest shots from your handgun before they even 
 slow down. Driving is also frustrating, with other cars sometimes not moving in the slightest after 
 you hit them going 80 mph.
  
  Graphically, the game is good. Fighting looks realistic; blood and bruises gradually show up as 
 you fist fight, which is cool. The fighting is the best part about this game. The complicated moves 
 that are performed by the simple press of a single button is exhilarating to the casual gamer, 
 but more hard-core gamers may feel it is too easy and cheap. 
  
  The extras are lame; I wouldn't waste my time with them. Bourne looks nothing like Bourne, and 
 that is disappointing. Since that was not used, the developers could've made up for it by letting 
 you create your own assassin, but sadly that option is not available either. 
  
  Overall, this game is fun, but not enough thought was put into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:47 am PT
Review:  Now lets get one thing straight at the start here, okay. Jason Bourne is an assassin who is being 
 tracked by the goverment around the world. There 
  have been a few books and movies made about it, and really good ones too. The films are really 
 intense action with a whole load of suspence gripping onto you the whole time, and that is what 
 the game does'nt bring, intense action and suspence like the Bourne action films. It does'nt. Its 
 just plain fighting. It is still a good game though apart from that. More freedom would be good. 
 Theres only one ay to go in misssions except from the car chase in town but thats a tiny area. 
 If they made it an open free roaming city where Bourne was being hunted everywhere he went and 
 had to sneek about with fake passports avoiding goverment agents and stuff, it would be amazing, 
 but... its still pretty good though freedom would be a great feature. Now the fighting sequences 
 are pretty cool, you keep on continuesly tapping the button until finaly it gives you a combo, 
 it might be twisting a guys arm and throwing him into a shelve where all the books fall down on 
 top of him or it could be a simple big kick to the face into a stone plantpot. The fighting sequences 
 are really immensely satisfying and are really fun to play about with. Now throughout the game 
 you will come across hundreds of button press sequences which switch you into a cutscene pressing 
 the buttons at the right time when they appear o the screen in the crrect place. These are on other 
 games as well. The thing is you'll be so busy concentrating on hitting the right button that you 
 probably wont concentrate on the cutscene that much. The demo is available on the Playstation Store 
 and is one of the biggest files you can possibly download off the Playstation Store. Its something 
 like 1,800MB or something. Though the demo provides you with 3 full levels to play through. Yes! 
 3 full levels! Though the levels are easy and short and youu should zoom to the end of the demo 
 in under an hour. Though I put it on easy difficulty. If you get stuck on a level in the demo its 
 okay because you can go back to the main menu and pick another level. Its a good game which could 
 have been a lot better though regardless of it is still a fantastic game! The Bourne Conspiracy 
 brings an action packed game that is un-intense but great entertainment if your a Bourne fan! I 
 personally like this game but i hope in the future in 2009 or 2010 they might make a free roaming 
 Bourne game which I explained up there. Do that High Moon Studios and I will be really happy! Thanks 
 for reading my review on The Bourne Conspiracy! Bye! And my PSN- gameaddict10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Speedsta69
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 28, 2009 1:34 pm PT
Review:  Just like the movie franchise this game was disappointing.
  
  The action sequences are a combination of smashing the buttons while at times pressing the specifc 
 one to executive the right move. But considering the fights scenes are exactly like the movie (like 
 a camera being kicked around on the floor) expect to be dizzy.
  
  While the cut scenes are nice to watch, you need to stay focused otherwise you miss the chance 
 on hitting the specific key and you'll start all over again.
  
  As for the graphics, there really isn't much to talk about, its about average in todays game play 
 world (factoring in the epileptic flashes) it's fast but not mind challenging. As for why the guy 
 doesn't look like Matt Damon or the original Borne is beyong me.
  
  Overall if you enjoy mindlessly pressing buttons and following the strick game play path then I 
 guess this is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orsic
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:00 am PT
Review:  In terms of gameplay, the only issue I had with it was the gun fighting. I think it was pretty 
 simplistic and way too easy to master. It also took away from the realism of the Bourne movies. 
 The Gun take downs could have also been a little better as well as varied to Bourne's surroundings 
 like how its done with the Hand-to-Hand takedowns. The Hand to Hand combat in this game was its 
 major strong point. This made the game much more addictive as well as the fast paced story line. 
 There were points in the game that were fairly easy and others that were just impossible to beat 
 sometimes. Overall though the game play was good and the creators did a good job in that department.
 
  
  The major issue with this game is the length. After I defeated the last boss, the game just ended 
 and left me feeling like, "what the... thats it!?" Maybe this was a good thing if the creators 
 are making a sequel but if not, then I think they should have at least added the rest of the story 
 to it (sorry to spoil it) . Had that been done, this game could have easily gotten a 9 if not higher. 
 It left me feeling like it was something I should rent instead of buy because of its length. With 
 a longer story line, this game would have had more depth as well as replay value, the difference 
 between a rentable game and a game worth buying. I think the creators tried to do something great, 
 and they could have if they just added a bit more, especially for those who are avid fans of the 
 Bourne Trilogy. All in all this game gets an 8, good game and good foundation, hopefully this lays 
 the track for future work that will entertain us for longer then a day and keep us fascinated by 
 Jason Bourne. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOHWWII
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  There should be more games like this out there. The game follows the first Bourne movie and it 
 does a great job adding things in. This game has it all from great graphics to great hand-to-hand 
 combat. I know our favorite character doesn't resemble Jason Bourne from the movies but that's 
 ok, he still looks fine. Graphics in the game are really good, the only thing is that the guns 
 don't have the best texture but there still ok. I love how the graphics stay crisp while a cut 
 scene goes into normal time again and doesn't pause or get laggy. The length of the game is quite 
 short though, on the second level of difficulty out of three, it only took about four and a half 
 hours. It would have been nice if they could have put all three movies in that game except only 
 the first one. There aren't that many types of weapons in the game and it would have been nice 
 to have a few more but the two that you unlock at the end (second level of difficulty, may not 
 get them unless it's this level not sure) are pretty cool. But with the hand-to-hand combat it 
 makes up a little for the lack of gun types. The hand-to-hand is excellent and when you hear the 
 crack of bones and the light spray of blood it really feels like your Bourne. Even the driving 
 level in this game is really fun and it really feels like your driving the car. While you drive 
 you can even use your adrenaline to go in slow motion to get out of the way of oncoming traffic. 
 Also you can do take-downs with combat or with guns. When your adrenaline reaches the right level 
 you can perform take-downs which are awesome. You can even perform multiple take-downs if your 
 adrenaline is high enough. The replay value is decent since you can go back and play on a harder 
 level and also collect passports to unlock bonus material. The game is really fun and I would recommend 
 getting this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edlim615
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  I love the Bourne movies. And as far as movie adaptions go, this is a better-than-average game 
 that is faithful to the characters and the story.
  
  But I have a bone to pick regarding the Professor, a boss in the penultimate level of the game. 
 Its a timed fight- you have a limited amount time to kill him otherwise the flaming building falls 
 on you.
  
  I was chugging along at Assassin level (Hard) , but the Professor stumped me. I tried at Agent (Normal) 
 but couldn't beat him, and so I tried Trainee (Easy) and still couldn't.
  
  Now, I'm not that good of a gamer, but I'm good enough to finish any game that I play. I'm frustrated 
 at this game because even on Easy, I can't finish it. It's probably too much to ask, but High Moon, 
 please patch it so the Professor is just a little easier to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  The game is nothing more than a shorten rehash of the movie. It is one of those stories which can 
 only makes sense and flow properly if you have seen the movie. If you are not familiar with the 
 movie or the series in general, this game will still make sense, but the way the story is executed 
 does little to get your attention. The game feels stiff and the controls need a little tweeking 
 because trying to do combos and change weapons with poor controls deteriorate the fun factor in 
 a game. Playing the movie through your eyes is capitivating, but poor fighting mechanic weighs 
 down action and fast cutscene way down the emotional appeal of the story. I have never scene a 
 man take so many 'blows' too the face and not die. The game has you execiting life threatening 
 punches and kicks to your oppenent which in real life would kil a man, but instead your oppenent 
 only takes a little damage and is still able to dish it back. Boss fights are long and the moves 
 get repetitive since every move is quiet the same except for combo that include using your surroundings. 
 Using your surroundings are fun, but all of it seems too scripted. Instead of only flipping my 
 opponent on to a table, why can I not body slam him or drive his face into the table. Scripted 
 action scene become repetitive which makes one think if the creators of this game believe in variety. 
 Shooting is a big problem because guns seem ineffective in taking people down and the shotgun is 
 pointless in this game. Some parts in the game force you to think ahead because you will go through 
 levels where life is scarce, so you may have to save some life packs just in case those situations 
 become apparent. 
  
  Though there are negatives, the positives are right around the corner. Close combat action sequences 
 are brutal and entertaining, even if they are repetitive, action segments are always intense. The 
 game does have its wow moments and like any great action movie, fire is added for intensity which 
 is a tried and true formula. One segment of the game has you fighting to get your way out of a 
 burning building which graphically looks good for this game and looks almost photo realistic if 
 you do not pay close attention. But graphics do not make a game, though this game could have aimed 
 higher in this department. The game appears to have to best possible graphics PS2 could pump out 
 when it was in it s prime. 
  
  Something that would have been made the game better are cutscenes that transitioned in and out 
 of the game action fluidly. There are instance when the games cutscenes are showing your past, 
 but you do not know that it is your past which leaves you kind of confused until you have that 
 "Oh, that's what happened" moment (Have to watch to movie to follow the game) . Another thing this 
 game does wrong, like most games who copy resident evil, is include player responsive action cut 
 scenes. I would rather watch the movie, because these type of scenes are unexpected causing you 
 to restart and also make you miss the action that is unfolding infront of you. Something else poorly 
 executed, like in most action games that try to incorporate, is the poor driving sequence which 
 feels too reponsive and unrealistic. This part is also not the strongest part of the game and could 
 have easily been a throw away idea. There are no twist and turns in the story, if you scene the 
 movie you know what to expect. 
  
  Overall the game is only worth a rental if even that. It is one of those games that come and go. 
 If you pick it up... Cool... If you don't... your not missing out on anything, just another of the 
 same old same old. It is a good way to pass time though, but not the best way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Pros:
  'Excellent focus on Bourne formula
  'Fun and intese fist-fights
  'Great music
  ''Good Graphics
  'Does everything overall pretty well
  
  Cons:
  'Gun fights are less excilirating 
 
  'Mechanics for gunplay are planned weirdly
  'Car missions are a small drag
  
  It was a while ago, but i remember this game pretty well. I rented "The Bourne Conspiracy" because 
 i'm a fan of the films. And lets just say that in the film to game sense, i was impressed. It's 
 more along the lines of Bourne before he was turned a rogue agent and the missions you never saw 
 in both parts of his life. Bourne's game does everything very well from the fist-fights to the 
 graphics, Bourne definately satisfies. I just wish the same could be said for the very few car 
 chases and gunfights. Neither were exactly the best part of the game, which seems like a bummer, 
 since these are pretty intese moments in the movies. But everything else is done very well, making 
 it the best movie to game game ive ever played. Buying would be a great idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoto
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  The game ties in well with the film, and from the offset you are running around shooting and fighting 
 your way to the next position. There are differing difficulty levels, so if like me you are not 
 an experienced gamer who plays for hours each day, you can increase your ability by playing on 
 the easier setting before going onto the harder settings. An excelent game that's very addictive. 
 Fighting sequences are a conbination of cinematic cutscenes where you have to hit a button when 
 prompted, to bashing the buttons to block, kick or strike your way through. The only bad point 
 I have is that you cannot draw you gun once you have entered into a fight. This can cause problems 
 when you have inadvertently been drawn into a fight with a soldier while another is shooting at 
 you from blank range. This however does not happen often. A good cross-over from film to game. 
 Brilliant. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: casezz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 10, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  I love this game. It's just plain fun. I'm not much into fighting games or at least I wasn't. I 
 know that movie tie-in games aren't supposed to be good, but if entertainment in the world of Bourne 
 that extends the story in the movie is what you're looking for then this a great pick. Won't get 
 design awards or invent a new genre, but that's not what it's trying to do. The graphics are beautiful, 
 the environments are rich enough so that it feels like you're playing in the right parts of the 
 world. The melee combat is exceptional. Simple enough to be fun, complex enough to be interesting. 
 The car sequences are only okay with their wonky physics and a bit too arcady for me function, 
 but it's not long and is fun enough while it lasts. The cut scenes are good and the story is well 
 put together. I agree that $60 is too much, but you no longer have to pay that price. If you like 
 the demo I don't know why you wouldn't like the full game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hemanit
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy. It is O. K. m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m .I am doing this because I don't have a long review. 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mm m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mmmmmmmmmmm mmmmmmmm m mmmm m m m m m m m m m m m 
 m m m m m m m m m m m m m m mmmmmmm m m m m m m m mmmmm m m m m mmmmm 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryagainlater
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  When you think of Bourne, you most likely think of impressive action sequences with both hand-to-hand 
 fighting and shooting. Well, The Bourne Conspiracy has just that but not all of it is executed 
 that well.
  
  Visually, The Bourne Conspiracy is great. The character models and environments look fantastic. 
 Cars are a weak point in the graphics but they shouldn't bother you too much. The animations are 
 amazing. Bourne does some pretty cool moves in this game which just looks all the more impressive 
 with the quality of the animations. Cutscenes also look great but that's what you come to expect 
 in this day and age.
  
  Gameplay is basically divided into fighting and shooting and a little bit of driving. Fighting 
 is where the game separates itself from other action games. You fight using a mix of light and 
 heavy attacks which builds up adrenaline. When you build up enough adrenaline, you're able to use 
 takedowns. Fighting takedowns vary from where you are or what object you're beside. If you're beside 
 a small table and you press the takedown button, you can expect your opponents head to be going 
 through it within seconds. It's fun to experiment with different objects around your environment. 
 If you have built up enough adrenaline and you are facing multiple opponents, you can take down 
 all your enemies in one quick movement but you're going to have to be prepared for quick time event 
 button prompting. The fighting system seems even better during a boss battle. There is usually 
 a few things around the area to use a takedown on and a few unique takedowns such as stabbing a 
 boss with a pen partway through the game.
  
  Shooting is nowhere near as fun as fighting. The Bourne Conspiracy uses a cover system similar 
 to the system used in Gears of War. Ofcourse it isn't done as well as Gears. Usually during a shootout 
 in the game, you'll just want to get back to fighting. It's not that the shooting is horrible, 
 it's not great either; it's just that the fighting is so fun. There are shooting takedowns like 
 the ones you can use while fighting. They are basically done by pressing the takedown button and 
 then a quick time event button to shoot your opponent. You don't use them for fun though like the 
 fighting takedowns. They're used to get you out of a tight siuation. There is also one driving 
 mission based on the Paris chase in The Bourne Identity. The controls aren't paticularly great 
 for driving, but escaping cops through alleys and the quick time events that come along with it, 
 create a fun level.
  
  The sound in the game is anything special but I wouldn't really have anything negative to say about 
 it either. Bullets, people hitting of walls, table, etc and pain sounds all sound decent. The voice 
 acting is also fairly solid not that much is used. The music suits the game well and you may recognise 
 some of it from the movies if you have seen them.
  
  The game is based on the The Bourne Identity. The story isn't explained very well in the game. 
 They most likely expected us to have seen the movie and be able to understand it without much explanation. 
 Either way, it's a great story. You play as an agent called Jason Bourne. In one of his missions 
 (the first 3 levels in the game) you infiltrate a boat to assassinate a man. Bourne decides not 
 to kill him after seeing him with his kids and is shot of the boats. He is saved but he has forgotten 
 who he is. As he goes about trying to find his identity, he is hunted by his former employers.
 
  
  It's a solid game but it has some obvious flaws. Number one is the length. It's very short and 
 you could get through it in around 6 hours. It has little to none replay value. There are passports 
 you can collect in each level but there isn't much reason to go looking for them. Also, there is 
 no multiplayer to add to the amount of time you play the game. It's also fairly easy. If you but 
 it on hard mode or "assassin", it can prove quite a challenge as you can take very little damage 
 before dying.
  
  Overall, it's a fun game. The shortness and lack of replay value may make you want to rent it instead 
 of buying it but I would still recommend The Bourne Conspiracy to anyone who enjoys action adventure 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:16 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall
  
  I must admit for the first half of the game it was like wow, boom eat wall and BOOM headshots.
 
  
  But too soon the walls or reality came crashing up this game had been hit with the deadly License 
 bug, for some reason games that are limited due to Licensing often fall hard, there are a few exceptions 
 not many i can think of,.
  
  The fighting, first off wow blew my mind but after killing over 50 baddies using the same move 
 you realize that the only thing that can change between using the environment is the texture often 
 enough it's the same animation over and over again. The set peaces are fun to a point but you soon 
 find out that a few are badly put together 
  
  *********************Spoiler start********************
  
  In the boat yard when being chased 
 by the helicopter you run across a few empty boats if you watch you jump from the start to the 
 middle with few steps then jump off the boat with out any filler in the middle between the middle 
 and end it's like he warped forward at the speed of light.
  
  An other one was located in the embassy when running down the corridor you get a prompt to press 
 buttons if you miss one you are treated to a metal cell that you was no where near different videos 
 for failing to press the right button at different times during the same one could of saved this.
 
  
  *********************Spoiler end**********************
  
  The shooting was getting on my nerves you aim for the head and shoot your bullet will travel through 
 them like are the T-1000 slow aim hinders this part for too much to be fun. 
  
  Multiple take downs are so much fun in C. Q. C you do feel like Jason Bourne that we all know and 
 love but alass the voice acting on the lead character is dire no sense or emergency. But the other 
 sounds are top notch connecting with a fist or a kick has never sounded more real to me in a game 
 which helps give you a feel for how hard you hit them.
  
  Boss fight are a big thing for me and i feel that this game delivers on the boss fights finding 
 the "hidden" environment attacks are grate the animation on the fighting is well captured and feels 
 powerful. This paragraph of good things alone stopped me from placing a 3.5 on this game.
  
  One last little annoyance when in a gun fight you could get side swiped by a NPC (non player 
 character) for a fist fight unable to kill him using the gun you just had hold of you have to fight 
 hand to hand in the middle of a gun fight an the accuracy of the said NPCs can make assurance really 
 frustrating.
  
  Worth a purchase from a bargain bin or rental.
  
  Thank you for reading 
  
  Blood Diamond
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: viatridis
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 6, 2008 4:56 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne trilogy is one of my best movies series and I've been waiting for a videogame since 
 Bourne Identity.
  When I first played the game I was amazed by the very addictive and realistic action. The "quick 
 Reaction" system was nice and the adrenaline bars that made me a real "adrenaline junkie!" LoL.
 
  Also the Fighting mode was one of the games advantages as you can use everything in the environment 
 around you to K. O your opponent (s) .
  The only thing I was a bit disappointed is that I thought that the game would not be so short and 
 the story will continue until the "Bourne Ultimatum" and not just stay in the events of "Bourne 
 Identity" and give only some "Extra Missions" from the past...
  The Fighting mode was one of the games advantages 
  
  One way or another it's a videogame worth 
 buying for your collection + especially if you buy the Pack with the 3 Bourne Movie in DVD!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claverleykid
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 7, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Story
  
  The Story is based on the first movie's events. You will feel pretty lost if you haven't watched 
 or read the book. It dosen't matter, if your anything like me your care less and less as the game 
 goes.
  
  Design
  
  The game has 11 mission (Some are flash back missions when Bourne was an assassin.) in it and depending 
 on what difficulty you will spend 3-8 hours playing the campaign. (Pretty short.) What else? Nothing 
 there is no multiplayer to help exstend the experience. So like me and my mates you will done with 
 this within a week. I personally think the developers should of made the whole game flash back missions 
 and then it could have been as long as they wanted it to be.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Gameplay consist of 3 things. hand-to-hand combat, fire fight and car chases. Hand-to-hand combat 
 works like this. You run into a guy and you simply tap buttons and may make 1 of 12 combo's happen. 
 Aventionly to can pull of a take down move which has lose control of Bourne and he pulls of a badass 
 move and leaves you a little dispointed thinking why couldn't I do that? But the badass move softens 
 the blow. You can take out up to 3 people out at once using the infamous quick time event. (Which 
 is really nice because at least you helped pull of the badass move.) Shooting works just like uncharted 
 except you can pull of take downs with a gun. Which are basically pressing a button and you get 
 a bullsye headshot. If an enemy get to close instead of Bourne shootin him he fansises a hand-to-hand 
 job instead. Enemys can take up to 9 bullets before dieing, by by ammo. There is only one driving 
 scene in the game. And it is like controling an elephant while it's skatind wearing a blind fold 
 and is piss drunk. So annoying!! But you can slow down time to help aviod cars which is a nice 
 touch. 
  
  Presentation
  
  The presention is actually pretty good. The game didn't
  get the wrights to the actors so none of the characters look like their movie conterparts. Bourne 
 looks like Drake fron uncharted. The enviroments are well detaliled.
  
  This game is one hell of a good rental.
  
  P. S Give me your thoughts on this review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cexr
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 24, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  This is my fist review, so please, don't flame,
  
  The PS3 install its just too long. (i mean, i took a bath while the game installed, i had to wait 
 late for the install process to finish)
  
  Its almost, but not quite the game it could be,
  
  The shooting mechanics are broken, but the 
 fighting makes up for it. If you make a Bourne Conspiracy game, why should you limit the history 
 to the first movie, it just doesn't makes sense, with so many material just leave it like that, 
 do they want to make a second game??? not a hint.
  
  You can play as bad ass Bourne, but when you are getting the feeling of the game, is already over. 
 Not enough to play again,
  
  The Bourne signature fighting its great, but too little,
  
  No trophies support, no online options,
  
  Im just glad i rented it. I suggest you do the 
 same, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:47 am PT
Review:  In this game, you play as Jason Bourne, a agent to hunt down certain people and kill them, along 
 with other tasks. The levels are short but worth it...
  
  First of all, the story plot is well made. It blends into each chapter of gameplay and takes you 
 on a whirlwind adventure to the backstreets all the way to a universty and a mini car driving through 
 little gritty streets. Voice acting does it for me though, it is amazing. Bourne was acted superbly 
 and the tone in each characters voice was perfect. Now, the total letdown is the lengh. It would 
 take you a maximum of 7 hours to complete, but the levels are worth while. You have to remember 
 this game wasn't bourne with money (excuse the pun) and they started off with very little so i 
 think the lengh is perfectly done for a low budget game. And for a low budget game the graphics 
 are really top notch. Cutscenes are really gripping and look real, like real people! The fighting 
 is also well made in cutscenes, taking you straight into the action. Fighting is probably the best 
 part in this game. With 4 types of punching and kicking, making people bleed and to smash there 
 faces through windows is superb. I think the gunplay lets it down and isn't a gunplaying game. 
 The only really good gun to use is a standars pistol as they prove to work well while a machine 
 gun is just to messy to handle and shoots where you don't want it to shoot!
  
  I think the cover is good to promote this game, as it shows it in all of it's glory and doesn't 
 con you into buying a game which is bad, but looks good on the cover. Now, you get to drive a car 
 in this game which i think they should not of put in. They know what they want in this game but 
 it's to much. Driving the mini car seems to easy and when you crash the damage is smooth. And a 
 woman screaming at you in the passanger seat also doesn't help! This game should of maybe had a 
 car cutscene but not gameplay! There a bit to ambitius in my opinion!
  
  Overall, i like this game. But i would rent it first, then buy it when it has a price drop. A 9.0 
 out of 10. Worth your time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istylee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:09 am PT
Review:  Well i'm not going to say much about it but anyway i just got this game the other day and completed 
 it today and well i think the game is actually quiet fun to play. The camera is very cinematic 
 specially when your sprinting through halls of a building while chasing someone, as well as the 
 hand to hand combat which is very amazing and fun to beat down some thugs.
  
  The graphics are good but not the best for a next generation game but I'm sure if they make the 
 next one it will be top notch. The sound on the other hand is great with the combat and sound effects 
 which create a really cinematic feel to the game like your in the Bourne movies yourself.
  
  The only thing that could have been improved is the shooting, the driving and the length of 
 the game. I was quiet disappointed when it ended.
  But you anyway even a little interested should give it a rent and beat it as it is a fun experience 
 be able to be Jason Bourne.
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy is almost there with just a few flaws here and there but overall a great 
 game to be played. So guys go check it out if your a fan of The Bourne series! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WizardAssassin7
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Being a big fan of the Bourne movies, I had to give this game a shot. And while I believe it was 
 a commendable first effort, I still was left with a feeling that it wasn't all that it COULD have 
 been.
  
  You'll notice that for the most part the story pretty much somewhat follows the story in the first 
 Bourne movie. The controls were a lil funny gettin used to, but once I had them down it wasn't 
 a problem at all. Actually pretty easy, which I liked becuase I really enjoyed watching the fight 
 scenes, and I think that if the controls were too confusing, a lot would have been lost in that 
 area. The hand-to-hand fighting was to me the main basis of game. Sure, you got a machine gun. 
 But why shoot that guy when you can bust his nose 4 different ways and shatter both of his knee 
 caps???
  
  I did feel playing this game that i was kind of limited, especially with the environment. There 
 wasn't much thought process going into how to approach a battle or whatnot. It was pretty much 
 going from point A to point B, with nothing in between. The game was also a tad short for me. Didn't 
 seem like no time at all and it was over. 
  
  All in all, a good effort. Not bad for a first time i suppose. i've read that they're talking more 
 Bourne games. Hopefully they'll put a lil more effort into the next ones. But like I said, not 
 bad buy any means. I would recommend renting before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meluvulongtime8
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  Robert Ludlum's The Bourne Conspiracy is a game that mimics the first movie in the Bourne series, 
 The Bourne Identity. Although you will play through many of the sequences of the movie the game 
 goes further by providing additional missions provided via flashbacks. These missions bring the 
 player back to the day when Bourne was a trained killer without any hang ups to killing. While 
 it doesn't have Matt Damon as Bourne and doesn't really follow Ludlum's book, the game is still 
 an enjoyable title while it lasts.
  
  Gameplay is divided between hand to hand combat, gunplay, and action sequences. What really makes 
 the game shine is the hand to hand combat. The combat is simplified with a two button mechanic 
 of light and heavy attacks. You can mix the two attacks to create combos. With each attack dealing 
 blows to your enemies you accumulate sections on an adrenaline meter. When you reach a tier you 
 can trigger a takedown move by pressing a button which can initiate crushing blows to lay waste 
 to your enemies. These blows are augmented because of awesome audio. 
  
  The meter can accumulate a total of 3 potential takedowns making it possible to take out up to 
 3 enemies at one time. While the hand to hand combat feels satisfying the gunplay portions leave 
 something to be desired. The game utilizes a cover system during gunplay that doesn't add anything 
 new. The game does not provide a variety of guns. While using guns you can also trigger takedowns 
 with the gun. These create quick kills, but the cut scenes are not nearly as good as the hand to 
 hand. 
  
  Through the game you encounter bosses. During the majority of the game you engage these bosses 
 with hand to hand combat only. The bosses are much like Bourne in that they too can trigger takedown 
 moves. Although they can do takedown moves you can counter these moves by pressing the triangle 
 button during a slow motion scene. When fighting bosses you can use surrounding objects to play 
 out some of the memorable scenes in the Bourne movie. These battles prove to be a lot of fun working 
 your opponent into a coma with the objects in the room. Later in the game two boss fights encompass 
 gunplay and hand to hand combat.
  
  Other portions of gameplay are action sequences that can be triggered at set points. If failure 
 to complete these sequences required replay of the entire section it would become very irritating. 
 Fortunately if you fail to complete the sequence the game reloads to the beginning of the action 
 sequence.
  
  Audio in the game is top notch and really ends up improving the feel of this game. From the sounds 
 of crushing blows to songs from the movie that provide a feel of urgency. Graphically Bourne isn't 
 pushing new limits, but they are definitely not bad either. Pacing in Bourne is fast and you'll 
 always have action only seconds away.
  
  While the majority of the game is fun there are some definite let downs. The game really skimps 
 on the story of Bourne. While it's understandable that people have most likely seen the movies. 
 The cut scenes are only a way to quickly move the game to a different area and keep up with the 
 pacing. 
  
  Another issue is game length. This game can easily be finished in an afternoon. I felt that if 
 they had added more story via cut scenes and other flashback missions they could have really made 
 the game stand out. On the flipside I'm unsure if the game would have become very repetitive if 
 the game would have been longer without any additional gameplay mechanics implemented. The game 
 does have accomplishments to unlock that allow you to fight bosses, unlock artwork, etc.., but 
 in order to unlock the boss battles you have to collect passports which are littered throughout 
 game levels. Searching for the passports creates a slow down in the game's attempt to stick with 
 a fast pace game.
  
  Other issues include noticeable camera problems, but nothing that hindered gameplay significantly. 
 Lackluster gunplay in the form of low variety of weapons and inability to use sites to target enemies.
 
  
  Overall Robert Ludlum's Bourne Conspiracy is a fun title, although short. I recommend renting the 
 game first due to the length and low replay value. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frito_master05
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 24, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  In the beginning of this game its really fun to beat the living **** out of people and shoot them. 
 The hand to hand combat in this game is excellent and the shooting isn't bad either . But there 
 are also a few downsides to it; First of all it just gets plane boring after a little while, also 
 you can only get guns on certain levels even if your enemy has a gun or weapon if its not a shooting 
 level you can't use it. one more thing many things in this game are timed like having to press 
 a button in a very short amount of time or you die kinda sucks! so if you enjoy doing the same 
 thing through out games get it if not i would suggest something else. hhhh hhh hhhh hhhh hhh hhh 
 hhhhhhh hhhhh hzzzzz zzzz zzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzzz 
 zzzzz zzz zzzzzzz zzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzzzz
  zzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzz zzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzz 
 zzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzz
  zzz zzzzzz zzzz zzzzz zzzz zzzzzzz zz zzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzzz
  zzz zzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzz
  zzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzzz 
 zz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzz
  zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzz zz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzz zzzzz zzzz zzzz zzzz zzzz zzzzzz zzzzzz
 
  zzzz zzzzzz zzzz zzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzz sorry i needed more characters in it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deanbezic
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: Absolutely excellent. Although Matt Damon's face is not existent environments are realistic 
 and faces are quite impressive. There are a lot of character models in all, but some levels leave 
 enemies looking quite alike. 
  9/10
  
  Sound: Good. Hand to hand fight sounds are realistic, but again tend to become very repetitive. 
 Gunshots, as in most action games can't really be improved much more. 
  7/10
  
  Artificial Intelligence: Great. During gun battles, enemies will scream to their partners for ammo, 
 hide behind cover and flank up on you if necessary.
  9/10
  
  Controls: Very, very poor. The entire game relies on unbelievably annoying button taps that pop 
 up at any moment throughout the entire game. if you miss a tap, you fail - simple as that. These 
 controls also add to terrible fight sequences with very few moves, and few enemy reactions. This 
 bumps the game up to an unnecessarily tough level of difficulty... even at a lower difficulty level.
 
  1/10
  
  Overall Game-play Experience: flawed and repetitive. I strongly do not recommend this title unless 
 repetitive nonsense somehow appeals to you. I respect that some people like this title, because 
 there are definitely reasons to appreciate it.
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judge-green
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 14, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  dude this games kicks so bad its awesome first i played it at my friends house and loved it it 
 was awesome then i went and bought my own copy ive beat the game like a billion times and still 
 like it its this years must have 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  fgewY HAGIOS HNJUFHASI hufispla hvufdsiobgv bfvsiuvblo vb bf bf bf bf fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb 
 fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fb fbfb fb ffbfb 
 fb fb fb fb fb b b b b b b b b b b fb b fb bf b b fb bf b bf b b fb b fb bf b bf b bf b bf b b 
 fb bf b b fb bf b bf b bf b b fb b fb b fb b fb b fb b fb bf b b fb b fb b fb bf b bf b bf b b 
 fb bf b b fb b fb bf b bf b bf b bf b bf b b fb bf b bf b bf b bf b bf b fb 
  DUDE 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liam526
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  INTRODUCTION
  
  The Bourne Conspiracy gets off to a great start but for people who havent seen the movies its just 
 a game where you have to beat up people. The boss battles are pretty authentic and the duck and 
 cover system is great. The missions are suprisingly long but the fact that your life regenerates 
 makes the game very easy.
  
  HAND TO HAND COMBAT
  
  Bourne's trademark fist fighting is the main reason why i bought this game. It is great but it is 
 a bit too easy to master, maybe they should have tried using two buttons at a time like L2 + SQUARE 
 instead of or aswell as three button combos like SQUARE, TRIANGLE, SQUARE
  
  GUN FIGHTING
  
  Although gunfighting on this game is great there are a limited variety of guns. 
 There are two of every type. In the light section there are a pistol and an uzi (I often find uzi's 
 are easier) . in the shotgun section theres basically two shotguns that only really vary in appearance. Then 
 in the heavy automatic machine guns theres on that can carry 90 rounds but is lighter than than 
 the one that can carry around 75. Using a gun in these sections really depends on what type of player 
 you are. If you like to be always on the move and barely ever in cover then I suggest you should 
 use a machine gun. if you like to be in long range cover use a pistol or uzi and for close range 
 cover a shotgun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  well first impression was really good.... but graphics could have been much better... i mean c'mon 
 this the ps3!!! anywayz the hand to hand combat is really mind-blowing.... with cool boss fights 
 and really cool take-downs... well the police chase in paris was really lame.... anywayz the overall 
 story does keep the dignity of the bourne trademark... so o it is a good game.... and yea there is 
 no sixaxis motion sensing in this game so don't expect so motion sensing gameplay...... well one 
 more thing u need good timing for u to execute some takedowns but it's easy to get the hang of 
 it..... nd yea u need to explore the surroundings to search for whats available to use as a weapon... so 
 that fr some might be fun... anwwayz overall 
  
  gameplay 9
  
  sound 10
  
  graphics 7.5
  
  story 8
  
  well if youlooking for a all around good action packed adventure 
 game... u'll surely love this one for sure... nd yea gamespot has wrote a pretty good review so u 
 can trust them on this one.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnarfShady2001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 2:41 am PT
Review:  NOTICE: This review contains minor spoilers of the first Bourne movie. I am sorry for this, but 
 I found it unavoidable. (I have, as usual, kept spoilers of the game out of the review.) You will 
 understand why after reading the review, but please watch The Bourne Identity before approaching 
 this game.
  
  Let me start off by saying that I don't usually play movie-based games. They tend to just be "cash 
 cows" rushed out to coincide with the release of the latest Hollywood blockbuster and it usually 
 shows. That said, I loved The Bourne Conspiracy. Unfortunately, seeing the first movie, The Bourne 
 Identity is a prerequisite to playing this game, as the game doesn't have much of a story on it's 
 own. There are bits and pieces from the movie, but nothing other than your memory of it will tie 
 the pieces together. (The missions are slightly on the side of prequel-heavy, but the cutscenes 
 make watching the movie first quite mandatory.) The first thing that you may notice is that Matt 
 Damon and all of the other likenesses that you would expect to see are noticeably absent. I actually 
 expressed concern over this fact, thinking it might kill the game for me because, after three movies, 
 I had this image in my head of what Jason Bourne looked like. I can tell you after playing the 
 game that other than having to pick out who's who based on the context of the situation, this was 
 not a problem for me. I find it funny that different people are still wearing the same clothes 
 (i. e. Bourne's yellow turtleneck in the embassy and Castle's gray sweater with a black plus sign 
 in Bourne's apartment) . I would assume that the developers did this to help ease people's reaction 
 to the lack of recognizable faces and it really did help. Additionally, every one of the cutscenes 
 are something out of the movie, so it's easy to place, as you've seen the very same scene before. 
 Now then, onto the game itself ...
  
  I like to say that I am not a fan of "button mashers," but three recent games (one actually being 
 a series) have changed my perspective on this: God of War, No More Heroes, and The Bourne Conspiracy. 
 (You HAD to see that last one coming ... I mean I'm only REVIEWING THE GAME.) Bourne's strength 
 lies in it's hand-to-hand combat. I'm also not a particular fan of fighting games (at this point, 
 you may be asking yourself what I'm actually a fan OF) , but outside of those, this is probaly the 
 best hand-to-hand fighting action I've ever seen. The controls aren't particularly deep, one button 
 for light punches (which you can hold for light kicks) and one for heavy punches (again, hold for 
 heavy kicks) , and one to block. However, the combat can be very satisfying as all attacks are done 
 in three-hit combinations and a number of different possibilities present themselves. With each 
 successful attack, your adrenaline meter gets filled. Once that reaches a certain level, another 
 button can be pressed to initiate an instant-kill takedown similar to what you'd see in the movies. 
 Running attacks can also be performed in the same manner. Once one of these attacks is initiated, 
 a small cutscene plays that will typically show Bourne throwing someone into a wall or executing 
 a combo to disable his opponent. If enough of the adrenaline meter is filled, Bourne can execute 
 a multiple takedown, which can be successfully completed by taking part in a God of War style button-pressing 
 minigame. These attacks are again, very similar to the movies. (Think back to when Bourne was on 
 the park bench near the beginning of the first movie and took out the two cops.) And what kind 
 of action game would it be if a little gunplay wasn't involved? This part of the game is very well 
 done, but does take a back seat to the combat. While shooting, you can also perform takedowns with 
 your weapon, but it's more along the lines of pressing the right button in the minigame and watching 
 an adversary fall -- more of a timesaver than something that you initiate for the fun of watching 
 it. Where the game really shines however, if the boss fights. The boss fights are exclusively hand-to-hand 
 combat and feature fully-destructible environments. These bosses will take more than just the typical 
 one adrenaline filled takedown to pass, and they will also try to execute their own takedowns on 
 you which can do massive damage if you don't press the right button when prompted. More than once 
 per boss fight, I giddly laughed with joy as I watched a Bourne toss someone into a wall or pillar 
 or snap a few bones. The boss fights all also have a special weapon that can be used. These are 
 weapons in the Bourne sense of the word and are initiated with that one-button takedown mentioned 
 above. These weapons are everyday objects that can be used to deal the damage to the boss and are 
 highlighted during the duration of the fight. (Think back to the movies and some of the weapons 
 that Bourne has used and you'll know what I'm talking about: a pen, a magazine, etc.) There is 
 also one car chase mission, which is fairly well-done. It definitely could have used a lot more 
 fine-tuning, but after some of the games I have played, it is nice to have an action game that, 
 while it may not have very good driving controls, is very forgiving on the driving in terms of 
 damage to your car. I felt that one game (The Getaway) was completely ruined by it's driving and 
 the fact that instead of a map, you were reliant on your car's turn signal, which would get damaged 
 and not work, so you'd switch cars, and repeat. This is nice in the fact that the driving is very 
 "arcade-y" and not overly realistic. There are also a few parts of the driving in which you will 
 be prompted by "interactive cutscenes."
  
  Technically, the game is fairly impressive. It does a very good job of capturing the feel of the 
 movie and the graphics are appealing. If I hadn't had to turn the in-game brightness setting all 
 the way up just to see what the heck was going on, this would definitely warrant a nine out of 
 ten on the graphics. I also feel that the cutscenes are very well done and believe they are near 
 identical in character actions frame-by-frame to the movie itself. I was very impressed by this. 
 The sound, just as in the movies, does a great job of capturing the moment and drawing you into 
 the battle. Again, I was pretty impressed at the technical aspects of this game, especially considering 
 what I've come to expect from "movie games."
  
  While the game's campaign may be short, there is a decent amount of value, as there are a number 
 of music and art unlockables and (based on collectible packages) boss fights are replayable on 
 demand. There are also the standard easy, medium, and hard difficulties. However, one thing that 
 Bourne has that I'm not sure I've ever seen before is that every time the game is loaded up or 
 a new mission is started (don't quote me on that, it may just be when you load up the game) the 
 difficulty is selectable. Picture this scenario: you're trying to go through the game on your first 
 play-through on the hardest difficulty (because that's just who you are ... personally, I always 
 start out on the easiest and then re-playthrough on the hardest ... but you're hardcore like that) 
 and you're having particular difficulty with one mission or boss, so you turn off your system and 
 go run some errands or whatever. When you come back, you're determined to get through the game, 
 but finding the harder difficulty near-impossible, you tone it down a notch, knowing that you can 
 always come back to go through that part of the mission or that boss again. It may sound like taking 
 the easy way out, but I find it to be a great asset for someone that wants as much of a challenge 
 as the game can muster up to getting stuck like 50 times on a certain boss.
  
  I found The Bourne Conspiracy to be a great addition to my library. I am a huge fan of the movies 
 (I even bought the special edition three-pack even though I already owned Identity and Supremacy 
 because it had a replica Jason Bourne U. S. passport in it.) and am glad to have played through 
 this game. I do feel that it could have been made into more of a game that could stand on its own 
 two feet, rather than relying on someone to have already seen one of the movies (i. e. maybe a very 
 condensed retelling ... maybe that's what they tried to do and I just missed it because I'm familiar 
 with the movies) . I do feel that this is something to be experienced by any gamer and that, even 
 if you don't like the Bourne movies, you should experience this game for some of it's great gameplay 
 elements (even if it means you skipping all of the cutscenes) .
  
  Overall: 8.4
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9
  Value: 8
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Digichai
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 1:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is very good on how it switches from shooting to hand to hand combat. Some of the problems 
 for me is that it was too short. They only included the first film and some flash backs but it 
 would have been nice if they also included the other two films aswell. What i do think is the best 
 part is the hand to hand combat bits. It is a bit like a beat them up genre but doing takedowns 
 is really enjoyable. Plus also the button sequences give you a little break from all the high octane 
 action. A little flaw is the shooting. when you try to take cover, it doesn't respond well like 
 Gears of war does unfortunatly. The graphics are very good although the character looks nothing 
 like Matt Damon but he still has his fleeces. The car scene is a little difficult at first but 
 you will eventually ge the hang of it.
  
  In all it is a really enjoyable game but you should probably rent it because you can complete it 
 in a week. All in all a definite 9/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spydersvenom7
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 2, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was announced early on and no one was quite sure what it would be about or quite how 
 it would play. Then, when it was revealed that it will revolve around the first movie with a unique 
 combat system, I got pretty psyched. After playing the lackluster demo that had a poor, repetitive 
 battle system and a familiar plot (sans Matt Damon's likeness) I was getting skeptical. The finished 
 product doesn't do much to polish the weaknesses, but the level design is dynamic enough to keep 
 me satisfied. 
  
  What's the best part about Jason Bourne? Doing a barrage of awesome moves and quick decisions that 
 no normal human can pull off. Even though High Moon chose to do these sequences in button-pressing 
 cutscenes, the timing is so quick and spot on that you feel like you're still playing the game. 
 Additionally, they don't keep you in this situation for long, forcing you to run and fight in the 
 normal game mode during many intense scenes. They also did a good job of recreating the scenes 
 and levels you want to be a part of (I loved hunting down Wambosee on the boat and The Professor 
 with a shotgun) . In the end, however, much of Jason Bourne is also about close quarter combat, 
 which is where this game begins to falter. The controls for combat are odd and clunky compared 
 to the smooth moves of 3rd person perspective. The controls (at least on PS3) are the same button 
 press for a punch or a kick, but depending on how long you hold the button you get a different 
 result. I beat this game on Assassin Mode (the hardest) and I have yet to figure out how to be 
 sure of when you're throwing a punch or a kick. They claim a "complex combo scheme'" but you can 
 only get like a dozen combinations from only two buttons in 3-sequence formation, half of which 
 just won't work against bosses. In the end, you try to make the combat more diverse or more intense 
 and you end up dying and before you know it the repetitive "block, block, block, punch, punch, 
 punch" combination gets you through. Too bad, this seems to be what High Moon was focusing on to 
 build this game; I recommend they focus on backgrounds or something insignificant in the future 
 because combat is the worst aspect of this game.
  
  My only complaint and warning about the game is when (uh, spoilers, I guess, but if you've seen 
 the Bourne Identity you already know this) you actually get to hand to hand combat with The Professor. 
 You are given a 2 minute time limit, and even the most aggressive Bourne player will spend some 
 time on this baddie. Again, i was on the hardest, so maybe he isn't that bad, but for me he was 
 tough. The worst part is that he understands the poor combat system much more than any player I've 
 seen and therefore is at a great advantage. The challenge won't be living, it's killing him in 
 2 minutes, so be sure to focus on that. This unnecessary and pseudo increase in difficulty is one 
 of those moments that upsets a gamer who is enjoying a game. If I wasn't super determined, I'd 
 have quit this battle and walked away from this useless boss that is just before the end of the 
 game (especially when you find out the last boss is a breeze) .
  
  In the end Jason Bourne is a decent experience. I must admit that the play time I've heard of about 
 5-6 seems a little short (although I never played on anything but Assassin) as I found a completion 
 time of about 8 hours. Not worth the buy, but a decent rental for a weekend or quick purchase at 
 $20, which it no doubt will drop to in the next few months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H-A-V-O-K
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  I think the bourne series has things alittle backwards, the way things are supposed to go is, "Books 
 Great, Movies ok, Games Terrible" instead the way i see it, it goes somthin like this "Books awful, 
 Movies So-so, Game Suprisingly good". 
  To start off, The Graphics are really well done with some great detail to everything inculding 
 facial detail, and some really nice enviorments. Sound was pretty impressive too which is somthing 
 I tend to get pretty nit-picky about The hand-to hand controls were nice and easy but without being 
 so simple to make you feel like a pre-schooler, The fights were really nice with painfully brutal 
 take-downs where you get to use just about anything in the enviorment against your opponent. It 
 does mix it up a bit with some shooting levels but the controls felt alittle sluggish when it came 
 to gun-play it was almost as if it was rushed during development. and you replay the paris chase 
 scene from the movie which wasnt bad per se it just didnt impress me all that much. I'd say this 
 game makes a good rental but dont waste your money on a buy, its way too short and loses its flair 
 after you've beaten it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 7:40 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Trilogy is perhaps one of my most loved series of films ever to grace the silver screen, 
 only coming second to Alien. and Die Hard... and Star Wars... and Naked Gun and.. yeah I'll stop there. 
 It is a fantastic movie series and worthy of a videogame transformation, becuase as you'd imagine, 
 it should make for stunning source material.
  
  Bourne is highly faithful to its source material but sometimes I feel there may be an over reliance 
 on the film property and is perhaps a little too faithful. An example of this would be the scripted 
 moments through out the game which stop you from playing. They are shorter than cutscenes but they 
 illustarte what Bourne is doing and tell what he did in the film. Spunds a good idea, but there 
 are way too many for my liking and it starts to dawn on you that you aren't really doing that much 
 to contribute towards the game. You're basically being shown a large cutscene with interactive 
 bits.
  
  Another nuisance is when you want to shoot some one at close range you can't. You automatically 
 go into CQC with special takedown moves, which again look awesome but hint at being a bit too scripted. 
 I can't go straight up to some bloke and pop him in the head because the game won't let me.
  
  However the combat is very good, better than that shown in GTAIV and it feels heavy and meaty, 
 as if you are chucking a handful of pork chops at someones chin. It's uncomplicated and animations 
 look teriffic, the takedown moves feel brutal though scripted and eventually occur too often for 
 me to appreciate properly. Gun play is sound, though not entirely perfect, it loosely reflects 
 that found in Uncharted, but doesn't work as boldly nor excitingly. As a result kills don't feel 
 entirely satisfying or as beefy and powerful as the CQC.
  
  One other skill Bourne has is Bourne Sense, a bit like Spider Sence and helps Bourne get to the 
 end of the level by showing where to go on the map, similar to the GPS in Army of Two, it guides 
 you when the going gets tough, which is handy but feels slightly like it wants you to get through 
 the game and eliminates any multinavigational challenges.
  
  Set pieces are extremely well represented and capture the essence though graphically it is a little 
 rough around the edges. Nothing ever feels totally convincing enough or like you are playing a 
 Hollywood Blockbuster, something Bourne should be. There is no thrill in playing this game, as 
 the mini cooper section feels floppy and like you are driving a cardboard box on wheels. Highly 
 unbalanced and not great. 
  
  One last pain in the arse is the inclusion of real time events, button pressing sequences seen 
 over a million times before and now it simply feels tired and over used. It started out as a great 
 idea about 2 or 3 years ago. but now it feels like a tired muel ready for the slaughter, and then 
 brought back to life in a few years as some zombie donkey.
  
  Though with its barn yard of flaws, Bourne is the first game since Spider-Man 2 or James Bond: 
 Everything or Nothing, to actual be a worthwile movie tie/based game, which in my eyes is a fantastic 
 achievement. With all the slobber that has been released in the past years, this has definately 
 captured the Bourne essense but needs a little bit of spit and polish to fully make it shine.
 
  
  Bourne isn't a bad game but it isn't a excellent one, it just settles for good. It captures the 
 Bourne flavor well, despite the absence of Matt Damon, and has some truly worthwhile set pieces 
 recogniseable from the films. I'd easily opt for fists over guns in Bourne, but hopefully a sequel 
 will arrive with a polished and truly exceptional experience, that is desrved of the film. It has 
 shed loads of potential and this game sees a step, a small step, in the correct direction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  I've been hyped for this game for a very good while. Loved the Bourne movies so you don't know how 
 happy I was to hear about this game. First screen shots was realesed and I noticed you sure as hell 
 wasn't Matt Damon (thank god) . And I was very satisfied by what they looked like. There was very much 
 action and really reminded me of the Bourne movies. The demo was realesed I wasn't amazed because 
 the frame rate was kinda lagging and the gunplay sucked and then I bought the game the only difference 
 from the demo was more missions. They didn't fix the frame rate issues and the gunplay isn't to 
 amazing. The hand to hand combat is where this game really shines. The controls are very simple in 
 hand to hand but it's still fun which I can hardly find these days is a game with very simple sontrols 
 but still bring you a lot of fun. The other thing that shines is the boss fights they are great 
 not better than Dark Sector or MGS but they are pretty fun to do but like GS said collecting passports 
 to replay the battles are very tedious and trust me you will probably want to replay them by quickly 
 pressing a button rather than having to go through the story again. That's my next complaint is 
 the story it's really just nothing I mean I fount no story. Another thing I've heard reviewers complain 
 about is the driving. Yea, it sucks but I can only remember doing a driving mission one time and 
 that was pretty tough and annoying. The transition part I talked about in the title is of course 
 it going from movie to game which again is executed very well. I don't really know if you consider 
 this a movie game because there wasn't a movie of The Bourne Conspiracy but it was pretty much 
 based on the movies so I would say it was and the best movie game ever in my mind. The takedowns 
 are really interesting and can be really fun at some times the weapon takedowns aren't as great 
 but when you turn a corner or you are almost dead and you got enough adrenaline to take somebody 
 down it is very satisfying. There is also a nice difficulty to it it's kinda tough
  
  
  
  Multiplayer:~~None~~
  
  
  
  Re-play value: Well to be honest there is no replay value 
 unless you want to gather passports to fight the boss again but I recommend trying to find some 
 cheat to get that quicker.
  
  
  
  End It! All-in-all this is a definite rent and a definite not buy. Because of the crap story and 
 no replay value. You'll have fun being Bourne but when you beat the story you'll wish you would 
 have never been Bourne.
  Real Score:7.3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MerrickBFox
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a 3rd person action adventure game based on the Robert Ludlum books and 
 Movies of the same name. The story lines are much as you would expect, good. 
  
  The action is also good. But therein lies a few problems, or rather, missed opportunities. As Jason 
 Bourne you run around many linear levels getting from point A to point B and killing many bad guys 
 along the way in either stealth mode, gunplay, or just straight up hand to hand.
  
  Stealth mode leaves alot to be desired. You can crouch. You can take cover and hide up against 
 the wall. You can even sneak around while crouching with the left stick, it's pressure sensitive. 
 However, the guys you're usually after spot you before you can really do anything to them and even 
 in cases where they don't, it's much more satisfying to kill them in open hand to hand combat. 
 Stealth kills basically consist of a few random kill animations based on one button, the O button. 
 Certainly, either more animations, better use of environment or more stealth kill options should 
 and could have been included.
  
  Gunplay suffers much like Stealth does. It's basically point and shoot like so many other games 
 out there. Much of the environment is destructible so that does leave some kind of sense of satisfaction 
 and urgency to gunplay. However, many guns, particularly pistols, feel light. It's as if they are 
 shooting nerf bullets rather than the conventional type with many targets taking upwards of 3 - 
 5 bullets to kill. Granted, thats ok, but when you shoot someone through the heart or in the head, 
 you generally don't expect they'll be getting up. With headshots, sometimes they do, sometimes 
 they don't.
  
  Gunplay also has takedowns much like Hand to Hand. But their animations seem to be more or less 
 all the same with very few eye popping moments there. Whats more, when you do a take down, you 
 are cued to push a series of buttons like in multiple hand to hand takedowns, however, unlike multimple 
 hand to hand takedowns, gunplay takedowns all seem to start with the X button so there's really 
 no reaction timing or guess work there. For the unseasoned type, there is a Bourne sense button 
 which highlights badguys both on your screen and your HUD and locks your gun onto them for a moment, 
 that is nice. Would be nice if they had a feature to just lock it a lil better or at least provide 
 better camera and gun control support which this game is lacking in, in both areas. Gunplay is 
 fun, but its not really the reason anyone would buy this game.
  
  Ah, Hand to hand. This is where the Bourne Conspiracy shines. There are many eye popping combat 
 moments here. But, there is also a huge amount of missed opportunity as well. Combat consists of 
 2 buttons, the Square and Triangle button, which correlate into quick and heavy attack respectively. 
 Tapping each will yield a punch. Holding one down for more than 2 seconds will yield a kick. Tapping 
 the two in up to three button sequence combinations will yield several different attacks. And here 
 is where the problem is. Without doing the math, that equates into some 6-9 combos. That's really 
 not enough combinations to make gameplay completely interesting when this is where the meat of 
 your gameplay is. Another medium attack button would have done the gamer nicely with more possible 
 sequence combinations, like up to 6. There would have been plenty of varienty there. 
  
  Hand to hand takedowns are wonderful. They require adrenaline which you get from fighting or shooting. 
 When youre meter is 1/3 - Full you may use it to take down up to 3 melee targets in one maneuver. 
 You can even use the environment to effect here, although getting Jason to use specfic things on 
 cue is somewhat frustrating. Basically, you stand next to something and hit takedown near it and 
 hope the sequence includes what you're next to. There's just no control here. 
  
  Takedowns are also bound to several animations, depending on what's around you and how many foes 
 there are vs. how much adrenaline you have. But after 10 minutes of continual fighting its gonna 
 be mostly, been there, seen that. Even though there is a huge amount of satisfaction from smashing 
 a target's head into a fire extinguisher, in both sight and sound, takedowns with more control 
 would have been highly appreciated.
  
  Levels are also very linear. That's tragic as the Bourne universe is filled with many places to 
 hide, attack from and explore. The graphics, however, although not eyepopping, are quite good. 
 Sound during combat is fantastic, easily letting you forgive some of the repetiveness combat yields. 
 Some of the sound for dialogue isn't quite loud enough over some of the other sounds and some of 
 the mission objectives get lossed in the fray. Thank god for those linear levels right? When you 
 can clearly hear what's going on, the vocal acting is quite good and so are the animations, particularly 
 during combat takedowns.
  
  All in all, the developers would have done well to give us a more complex world with more control 
 but, the Bourne Conspiracy is still a very good game and very entertaining. If you're looking for 
 a game with a good plot, some good acting and great action with several days to kill, this is an 
 excellent choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alhazim
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  it's beautiful game as action from robert ludlm's his self , wow i love this game because like 
 many things in one game like fighting on hand to hand and graphics it's good too like effect graphics 
 and many other effects on this game and a lat new weapons and some many small guns in one game 
 this very cool too , but don't think the game it's perfect and not bad all . and finaly robert 
 ludlum's his back his game robert ludlum's the bourne conspiracy on the playstation3 , and i hpoe 
 robert ludlum's making other games like tom clancy's ghost recon , tom clancy's rainbow six , tom 
 clancy's splinter cell , tom clancy's end war , and tom clancy's h. a. w. x and such as hido kojima 
 maker series metal gaer solid and many others makers games i hope so making like that becase this 
 give time fun and enjoyment in the same time . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Max13
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 15, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Everyone knows the bourne movies as of now, you know the ones starring Matt Damon as a spy who 
 is being tracked and that the agency wants to destroy. Well here we have Jason Bourne but it's 
 not quite Matt Damon, Bourne looks more like a cross between Nathan Drake and Christian Bale.
 
  
  The game takes place mainly in the timeline of Bourne Identity but also goes off to show you some 
 other assasinations that Bourne executed before the Agency tried killing him off. The main thing 
 to come into this game for is for the fighting. You hear broken bones and snapping wrists and fists 
 flying, you get the sense that you are Jason Bourne, except after a while it becomes repetitive, 
 the moves mainly consists of using the square and triangle button, and when you gain enough points 
 you get a takedown using the circle button or on 360 (Y, X, and B) . Though Bourne can use anything 
 in his path it's usually one special item, it's still satisfactional but not all that great, and 
 enemys tend to fight only after you beat one guy down and turn to the next. It's not that it's 
 bad but it becomes tireing after a while.
  
  Theres also shooting and interative cutscenes. The shooting similiar to Gears but flawed in the 
 way that sometimes the control seems broken and aiming can really suck. You cna take guys down 
 in single shots to the ehad but sometimes others will go down after only 7 shots to the head. And 
 as for interactive cutscenes i hope you're fast becasue push the wrong button and start all over 
 again till ya get it right!
  
  Thers also not a lot of variety with the weapons you get about maybe 5 weapons total. As much as 
 theres personal flaws in the game theres also good things as well. The game looks beautiful, and 
 graphics are pretty outstanding, when Bourne gets hit in the face he becomes bloody and gross, 
 and gets scars on his face also. The sound is also pretty great as well, mostly in the fight scenes 
 you get the sense of something being broken in the body, you hear cracking screaming and shattering 
 in ever sense.
  
  The game isn't perfect and I wouldn't reccomend buying it as you can finish it in a whole day or 
 2, but it is wroth a rent or look. But leaves you hoping the next Bourne game if they make one 
 will be better and heres hoping a good start and hopefully to get better!!
  
  7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  In 2002 The bourne identity movie was created from the novel of the same name, now 6 years later 
 the game is created, while it seems like an interesting concept it will get frusterating.
  The story starts about 2-3 hours before the movie, with bourne about to assassinate Wombosi, when 
 he is struck with amnesia and cant remember anything. the story is the same as the movie and the 
 book with a few exceptions 1 the game has a few flashbacks to some of bournes previous targets 
 and 2 the game has more shooting sections than needed, especialy since the shooting aspect is sort 
 of a pain because if an enemy gets to close you will have to fight hand to hand while people are 
 still shooting at you, the fastest way to do this is to use a takedown on the guy. takedowns are 
 similar to the instant kills in god of war, when you have damaged an enemy u get adrenalin to perform 
 a takedown that instantly kills one- three enemies, these can be used in hand to hand and gun combat 
 but getting it using a gun is defenetivly harder to do than getting it doing hand to hand.
  the driving segment of the game is not all that interesting, the car will instantly stop when you 
 collide with another car, making escapeing the cops a tedious task.
  the boss fights are the pinicle of this game is the boss fight segments in a destructable arena 
 that you can slam a guys face into a desk or stab him with a pen.
  all in all its a average game, good for a rent but its to short with lack of replay value so I 
 wouldnt suggest buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cd146
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 13, 2008 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game has strong production values, it flows nicely, and manages to achieve what it set out 
 to do. When I first heard about this game I thought it would be impossible to capture the incredibly 
 intense, fast-paced action Bourne is known for. But they basically nailed it, combat is fun, flows 
 very nicely - from guns to hand-to-hand especially, boss battles are difficult but rewarding. Graphics 
 are good, sound is great, what could be wrong with this game? The real issue here is the premise 
 itself, Bourne Conspiracy is heavily scripted and filled with too many "quick press this button 
 so Bourne can do this awesome move you have no control over and if you don't you'll die" moments. 
 Therefore there is basically 0 replay value, singleplayer is one experience, and when it's over 
 it's over. In my mind this means that the game simply can't be worth $60, but will always be a 
 fun rental, so it still receives a solid 8.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tariq393
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  first i'd like to say that i bought this game based on gamespot score with knowing the silly movies 
 games what always like! but when i saw 8.0 i thought this might be deffirent, too bad it wasen't 
 let's start with the graphics: worst graphics i'v ever seen in PS3 game it look more like PS2 even 
 some of PS2 games has better graphics than this, the combat: stupid REALLY STUPID hand to hand 
 combat and gun fights by the way you only can carry two wepons and they more like toys if you ask 
 me.. the takedowns are great maybe the best thing in this game. control: good but sometimes it feels 
 solid. the sound: amazing sound effects and music from the movie. one more thing i'd like to add 
 is i don't see how this game took higher score than dark sector and the same score as uncharted: 
 drake's fortune!! i think you guys know better right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kbow1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  If you are looking for entertainment from a video game, this is one. It has a certain amount of 
 uniqueness which gives the title a lot of value. The hand to hand combat is simplistic without 
 being ridiculously easy. You cannot just mash buttons (at least not with the difficulty on high) 
 and hope to come away victorious. Admittedly, the story line was mostly rehashed from the first 
 Bourne movie, but it had significant entertainment value as well. 
  
  As for replay value, I would have to say that this might be the only area where this game is lacking. 
 But seriously, outside of games with online play, how many people are popping old, already beaten 
 games back into their PS3? Replay value, or lack thereof, is by no means a legitimate reason to 
 give this game a low score. Gamespot was on the money with this rating, and I will give it an additional 
 half point for actually pulling off an innovative gameplay function with the hand to hand combat. 
 Get this game, you won't be sorry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peetowser
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 11, 2008 1:02 am PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a third-person action game from Sierra that I had the chance to review 
 for PS3. It tries almost succesfully to mix hand-to-hand contextual fighting (meaning semi-interactive 
 environnements & surroundings you can use to your advantage in fights) and gunfights . Having played 
 The Bourne Conspiracy Demo for PS3 since it came on the PSN in the beginning of June, I was expecting 
 just a lot more of the same content we got to sample there. I loved the demo and it is with high 
 hopes that I popped the rented BDVD in for the now mandatory four and a half Gig install process... 
 I would be glad a few hours later this was just a rental and not a purchase on my part...
  
  First the game mechanics, since they are the main attraction of this game. For those of you 
 who didn't see the game in action, the hand-to-hand fighting is pretty fun at first, albeit simplish. 
 One button is used for weak attacks and one for strong attacks, you can charge those, and one button 
 is used for blocking. As the tradition demands, there are simple 3-hit combos you can chain up 
 in the baddies' faces, all the while filling a 3 section adrenaline meter when succesfully attacking 
 someone hand to hand or with a gun. That's where things get fun. When a third of that bar is full, 
 you can perform a "Takedown" ; which usually means lights out for the bad guy and expressions of 
 pain on the faces of your friends witnessing it. Bourne will also enjoy breaking bones to the point 
 where a chunk of his health is replenished after a Takedown as a bonus too...
  
  Some Takedowns will involve turning the weapon of your foe against him, which is immensely satisfying 
 ; some will have Bourne inflict nasty strikes to genitalia or other soft targets on poor ennemies 
 ; others will have Bourne use his surroundings to drop shelves on his foes, burn them, drown them, 
 throw them face first through a desk, a truck or even kick 'em down a plane.
  
  One button is actually THE Bourne instinct ; makes you see objectives on the map, single out ennemies 
 and aim your gun better. It's usefulness is infinite, use it as often as you want, that's the advantage 
 of being the man. It makes the game very easy since you never wonder what to do if you only use 
 the Instinct. It also makes the game shorter since there is absolutely no exploration element in 
 there whatsoever because a press of Triangle shows ammo crates & where to run to on your map.
 
  
  But still, by then you actually start to like the Bourne character you're playing as in this game. 
 Things keep throwing themselves in his way but he always come out shining. When playing him, he 
 feels pretty darn strong, like he can take on anything and anyone, just short of Kratos from God 
 of War on the video game prowess scale.
  
  Many action sequences use the ole' Dragon Lair 's "Interactive" movie principles (used more succesfully 
 in God of War I & II recently) , where a pre-rendered movie sequence run and you timely press the 
 correct buttons when asked or either suffer eternal "Reload Checkpoint" limbo. The same mechanic 
 is used in boss fights and does spice things up ; a sound chimes in and the fight slows down to 
 show you a button to press, success means you keep advantage on the boss and hurt him a little, 
 failure means he does a Takedown on you. Sometimes Bourne will use this system to avoid certain 
 death (or die, or get caught in lots of pretty pathetic ways) , sometimes when remembering a flashback, 
 he will snipe a bunch of guys with you only requiring to press Triangle Square X O or R1. Pretty 
 tired formula if you ask me, but it could be cool if they didn't rely on it all the time in this 
 game...
  
  The game then tries to push it further by adding gunfight mechanics along with a couple of pistols, 
 a smaller auto, a couple of auto rifles and a couple of shotguns. The adrenaline meter is also 
 used for Takedowns, only difference is you can kill more than one guy on the same Takedown and 
 it does not use any ammo. You can chain up a lot of kills on the harder difficulty settings and 
 it can look a little ridiculous to kill some guy behind cover eighty feet from you... Apparently 
 Kennedy was shot using a Takedown because the way you can kill anyone on the map from anywhere 
 with a third of your adrenaline full is pretty silly.
  
  Other than that the gun mechanics can be clumsy but are OK. There's just not a lot of fun shooting 
 up guys when you can be beating them up and having their buddies shoot them up instead. Hand to 
 hand combat in this game is so much more fun than another generic third person shooter, you're 
 just trying to run up to guys to whack them in the tables and walls instead of pumping them with 
 a twelve-gauge shotgun.
  
  After a while the same Takedowns start to show back again and again, and you start to realize you 
 pretty much saw them all. Once in a while you see a new one, but one second and it's over. It starts 
 wearing thin... Then you get to the driving stage...
  
  Yes... Somebody thought it would be cool wasting precious development time integrating some kind 
 of car-driving portion to this game. Basically you run away from the police until a blockage is 
 cleared, then drive away some more. For around five minutes of our precious lives. In the most 
 unrealistic car ever built on a PS3. You speed up and turn like you weight 600 lbs, yet you flip 
 over other cars like they are toys and run UNDER them like you weight a ton. Not fun and almost 
 disturbing to see their idea of a driving game. A time limit also makes the number of times you 
 are allowed to crash limited, adding oil to the fire of your anger. Basically a frustrating way 
 to screw up the tone they almost succesfully sustained to that point. You only started to see chinks 
 in the game's armor, but now you saw it's ugly side.
  
  The worst part (or good depending if you are cynical) is that the game is almost over after that. 
 And once it's over, that's it. Sure there are "Accomplishments" but really no new content, no reason 
 to play through again. This is the biggest let-down of The Bourne Conspiracy, it's over too soon, 
 way too soon. Most of the Accomplishments deal with clearing a stage not using hand-to-hand and 
 gun Takedowns. 
  
  This leaves completionist (read masochists here) to play through a game using only the very basic 
 weak-strong-block combat system and the very ordinary third-person shooting mechanics. Basically, 
 not the fun way to play The Bourne Conspiracy. Maybe they thought playing through a stage without 
 Takedowns is challenging, I only find it boring...
  
  The graphics are certainly not flamboyant for a PS3 game but are good. They do a good job using 
 the Unreal engine to convince the audience that bones indeed should not bend that way, but these 
 things aren't anything unseen in video games nowadays. The driving stage's graphics were bland 
 and more of a stain on this game than something that added to it...
  
  The sounds were OK as far as fighting goes. The hits and bullet impacts sound good and clear, which 
 is good since you'll be hearing them non-stop. Some music tracks were secure from the movies, but 
 you'll mostly be treated to techno and trip-hop mixes when they aren't on. I liked the modulation 
 effect that happens in boss fights when they try a Takedown on you, the song is warped to show 
 time being slowed down and it does sound great when you notice it. Points deducted for the annoying 
 girl screaming at you for the entire later half of the game.
  
  All in all, when it all boils down to it, you end up with a very easy game taking around 3 hours, 
 five at the very most with the reload checkpoint limbo for gamers with difficuties on some stage 
 maybe... Worst is that the game seems to only be able to show you three hours of good time then 
 you pretty much saw it all, or you'll have to run through the game again to try that one Takedown 
 on the boiling pot on the kitchen stove... 
  
  The way you rely on the Bourne Instinct all the time, it seems like you are just being lead by 
 the hand most of the time and the stupid mandatory "wait behind cover to recover health" play mechanic 
 (thank you Halo grrr) means only the unluckiest will ever be fell by bullets. Even after infection 
 from carrying over 600 lbs of bullets in his body from gunshot wounds, Bourne still runs...
  
  The time they spent on the car stage should have been spent on adding any replay value in there. 
 The gun mechanics aren't fun and seem tacked on. The hand-to-hand fighting saves this game from 
 being a waste, awful and totally boring but once you saw all the pre-rendered Takedowns you are 
 alone in your room with a very easy and shallow fighting game where you have to labor through shooting 
 a ton of guys. It sure could have been a lot better, but it could have been worse and I guess that 
 it does deserve a rental.
  
  I definitely DO NOT RECOMMEND BUYING this game. It is way too short and will leave you frustrated 
 on the first day you own it because you know it will be over by the next day. You could collect 
 every Passeport on a stage to get every single boss battle challenge, gallery art and music select, 
 but really nothing worth a second playthrough.
  
  Rent it and have some fun for a night roughing up guys in baclavas and SWAT gear. Just don't buy 
 it or you'll be looking to trade it in pretty soon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Helix-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  The Bourne Conspiracy is a game which is fairly amusing at first but interest is almost impossible 
 to maintain. Although it does follow the first movie quite fairly well, it [the game] tends to 
 fade in its glory, the further you go into this adventure. Not to mention the absence of the face 
 of Matt Damon is a definate negative. It is quite bothersome at first that you're looking at this 
 rendered Jason Bourne but eventually it sinks in. At first combat seems quite fun. The senseless 
 throwing of punches to your opponents skull in the first mission of the game, is pretty good. Not 
 to mention the sound effects sound just right too. The combat system is based on two attack buttons, 
 one being light and the other, not light :D. Each of your little combos consist of different variations 
 of these buttons. And that where things begin to go bad. After playing the game for a while the 
 combat can get really and I mean really boring. Its so repeatitive that it pains me to have to 
 beat a guy senselessly. Now the real plus in the hand-to-hand combat is the take downs. Being that 
 each one is different, and it is slightly determined by your place in the room. And what is specifically 
 in the room. They are spectacular scenes to watch, just hope you don't ever use the same one. Now 
 to the guns. For the Playstation crowd I'm sure most of you have played Drake. And the problems 
 with the guns in that game apply here. When firing a fire-arm at an enemy and the bullet makes 
 contact, they don't die, or even appear to be weakened. Only do you need a VERY precise headshot, 
 or you need about three shots in a row to kill your opponent. It can get pretty annoying, and you 
 have good reason to get steamed while playing if this ever happens to you. One thing done right 
 with the gun-play is the damage that you take as you get shot. Your health drops pretty dramatically, 
 so you get the feeling you're not "too" special and that realism sorta takes place. Anyway well 
 the game is a bit on the short side, well at least for me and I wish that they would have taken 
 the time to place the other movies in the game. 
  
  So The Bourne Conspiracy is a pretty decent game. Its above average, I guess you could say. Unless 
 if you're a really big Bourne fan, I recommend that you just rent the game and save that portion 
 of your paycheck for another game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  Even though the story is ridiculously linear, with wholly-scripted events, and the gameplay becomes 
 repetitive, you can't help but marvel at the great art direction for both levels and characters. 
 None of the film personalities are in the game-which can be a little weird for those use to seeing 
 and hearing Matt Damon as the assassin-but the Unreal engine fits in well with the action and destructible 
 environments; almost no cover is completely safe as benches, pillars and railings have pre-defined 
 destructibility. There are a few technical hiccups like bullets clipping through cover, bodies 
 partially clipping through walls and some drop in frame rate when there's a lot of action on screen, 
 but since there isn't much chaos throughout the game, you won't experience problems very often. 
 Though, there are dead sections where you have to wait for the game to load between level sections.
 
  
  The main issues come in the form of extremely resilient enemies, and an indestructible Mini-Cooper. 
 With the exception of a single headshot, you'll have to pump enemies with bullets or completely 
 beat them into submission to incapacitate them. Also, since when can a Mini drive out of an infinite 
 number of collisions, but is barely able to drive up a slight incline?
  
  More Splinter Cell, less Winback, please
  
  In all, what we're left with in The Bourne Conspiracy 
 is a game which tries really hard to capture the action of the films, while not completely selling 
 out Ludlum's novel character. It was rumored that Damon backed out of the Bourne role due to the 
 game's violence, and while there isn't an outrageous amount of it (by today's standards) the repetitive 
 sections of shooting and fighting makes the game less about secret agent stealth, and more about 
 pure brutality. The films had some great action, but Bourne was also about intelligence gathering 
 and sly maneuvering. You can basically breakdown a solid looking game, with a top-notch soundtrack 
 and suitable voice acting, into two parts: Takedowns and shooting. Along with the lack of replayability, 
 there's not much to encourage anyone to more than opt for a rental.
  
  Hell yeah:
  + Awesome soundtrack, spot-on with the films
  + Destructible, interactive environments
  + Looks 
 great
  
  Oh, hell no:
  - Arbitrary enemy blocking and counters
  - Overly-linear - Repetitive gameplay 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 9:11 pm PT
Review:  Movies that turn into games are normaly medicore or worse. Very few have broken that. Lego Star 
 Wars, Lego Indiana Jones, Goldeneye, and a few more. We need to ad the Bourne Conspiracy to that 
 list. Let's say you are running down a corridor in an embassy when the gate ahead of you starts 
 closing. The game prompts you to press a button, so you do and get under the gate. Then after the 
 gate, the soldiers behind you open fire, and you barely escape being shot. Then, you find yourself 
 surrounded, so you take them all down Bourne style, or brutaly if you want to call it that. This 
 game has very tense moments. I found myself standing instead of sitting most of the game. You are 
 just waiting for that button press that comes from nowhere. The shooting is not great, but not 
 medicore either. it works how it is supposed to work. And it works well most of the time, but sometimes 
 it doesn't. Overall if you have any interest at all in secret agent games, rent or buy this one, 
 you won't be disapointed at all. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 9, 2008 7:19 am PT
Review:  Well... I have played both versions now: 360 and PS3. And I must say: the graphics on PS3 are HORRIBLE! 
 Having seen what the game really looks like, it's hard to tolerate all the jaggies due to low resolution 
 the game is working at on PS3. On 360 the game seems to be working at a native 1280x720, while 
 on PS3 it looks more like 1024x576, and even then the framerate in some cases drops down to a single-digit 
 numbers... : ( Which is kind of weird, considering that the game is using Unreal Engine, which Turok 
 also happens to use, and Turok looks quite decent on PS3 (I also played both versions, and while 
 360 version does look a bit better due to higher framerates and more visual effects, the PS3 version 
 works smooth and at least with the same resolution as 360 and without significant framerate issues) .
 
  
  The game itself is fun, though, and if not for the terrible jaggies, I could have enjoyed it on 
 PS3 just as much as I did on 360. I think the PS3 controller works a bit better, mostly for its 
 ligher and smoother joysticks and smoother buttons, which make it a bit easier to deal with the 
 button pressing minigames in Bourne, as well as button-based hand-to-hand combat.
  
  The storyline is somewhat similar to the movies, and in fact, the whole game looks quite a lot 
 like a movie, and can even be enjoyable just to watch someone playing (most games are quite boring, 
 if you-re not the one who's playing, but not the Bourne Conspiracy!) .
  
  If not for the low resolution, the graphics look very nice and realistic (cue Haze gripes :D ) , 
 and if you haven't seen otherwise, even the jaggies might not be as bothersome as they are to someone, 
 who have seen the 360 version.
  
  The PS3 version of the game, just as its 360 conterpart, has Accomplishments, which adds a bit 
 of replayabiity value to it.
  
  All in all, if you have a choice of consoles - I'd recommend you go with the 360 version. If not 
 - PS3 version is quite solid, although be prepared to deal with the jaggies and occasional framerate 
 drops.
  
  And one last problem, which doesn't make the game bad, but will still make some think twice about 
 purchasing, is the game's length: I have finished the 360 version in just under 5 hours, and the 
 PS3 version in under 4 (which is to be expected, since I've already known everything I needed to 
 do :) ) . So I'm not sure if I wanted to spend $60 for just 4-5 hours of fun - could have rented 
 a bunch of movies for this much money...
  
  I have rated the 360 version of this game as 8, and I'm rating the PS3 version as 7, because of 
 the low resolution and framerate drops on PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radox_ADF
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 7, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  OK firstly. All in all the game was great and I hope they make a sequel. I started in assassin 
 difficulty but quickly went down to agent. So the game was completed at Agent level. 
  
  I've literally just finished it. The credits are still rolling on the TV. 
  
  I don't usually 
 post on forums, but i'd like to provide some feedback if i can. 
  
  Fighting: 
  
  The fighting was great for the first few bosses, then i found it too linear. Block, fight, block, 
 fight, block, fight was not interesting enough to lift the fighting experience from good to great. 
 There needs to be some sort of counterattack or dodge/evade skill. 
  
  When you got cornered during a fight or started getting cramped for room, i really liked the random 
 cutscene quick button window that came up. It helped alot to make the fights flow properly. Well 
 done. 
  
  I loved the takedown moves, brutal stuff. It was probably the best part of the game. Really innovative 
 - but I was hoping for more toward the latter stages of the game. It was kind of repetitive. Endless 
 takedown combos might be too much to ask for but as it was the best part of the game for me so 
 i was looking for more. 
  
  The multi takedowns with multiple stacks of adrenaline were very cool. Unfortunately I found myself 
 looking at the screen for buttons rather than watching the action unfold. I think this is a negative 
 as the action is what we really want to see. This also goes for cinematic scenes in general - I 
 was so conscious that a quick button decision may happen at any moment, i feel I didnt get the 
 full movie experience as I was watching the bottom of the screen most of the time. 
  
  Shooting: 
  
  I liked the take-cover and pop-out system. However I pretty much hated the shooting 
 engine as a whole. It was too difficult to aim, and the GREAT AI made it even harder. The AI was 
 the best i've seen in a game yet (over 20yrs of gaming) . I got very frustrated with the shooting 
 particularly on the docks at the start of the game it was just too much. 
  
  I remember seeing an interview of one of the devs where they said that shooting was pretty much 
 optional in the game, giving the user the choice. Well that isn't quite true in fact. Most of the 
 shooting levels prohibited rushing the enemy for some hand to hand unless you wanted to get your 
 head blown off by his mate. Any enemy not engaged in hand to hand even only metres away will still 
 shoot at you point blank. They won't drop their weapon and join in the fight which i found a bit 
 of a shame, and basically stopped you going hand to hand during any shootout. 
  
  I think the shooting engine would be awesome on PC where you have a mouse to control the aim, but 
 on console it really sux. I hate to say it, but perhaps improve the auto aim feature. As it is, 
 basically like fighting. Take cover, popout, take cover, popout - there was no room for strafing 
 or shooting from the hip so shooting too became very linear for me. The amount of bullets it takes 
 to kill someone were a touch too many also. 
  
  Driving: 
  
  I was actually not looking forward to the driving level, however once I played it - i thought it 
 was pretty good. I think you got the collision and driving sensitivity perfect for a 3rd person 
 fighter/shooter. The game is not a driving sim, so I was glad you didnt make the car handling difficult. 
 
  
  Misc: 
  
  Shame you couldnt make the character look more like Matt Damon, also i missed Julia Styles not 
 being in the treadstone safehouse. Small details i know. 
  
  The destructive environment was great. Particularly during shootouts. 
  
  The health regeneration 
 system was great. Both in take-cover and takedown boosts. 
  
  I've never been a fan of games with time limits during levels, however i think you got it just 
 right. Not too difficult, not too easy and not too many. 
  
  As a fan of the movies, i found the game storyline lacking in some areas. There was no real structure 
 to it from the farmhouse to Marie's shop there was no connection. The last time you saw Marie was 
 heading to the basement, the next time you saw her in the shop. There was no farewell at the car 
 which would've connected the 2 scenes as an example. All in all there wasn't enough 'searching 
 for my identity' story to the game. 
  
  I thought shooting and fighting was 50/50 split. More bias to fighting would've been better IMO. 
 
  
  I was looking forward to the park scene to takedown the 2 cops at the park bench, but that was 
 taken care of by a cinematic. Bit of a shame. Could've given us 2 adrenaline stacks and let us 
 play that out 
  
  Summary: 
  
  Shooting system needs improvement. 
  
  Fighting was excellent. Add more takedown moves for sequel. 
  
  Focus a bit on the storyline 
 more if possible. 
  
  And most of all - make a sequel please! 
  
  GG 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zecks23
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 11, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  PS3 Version 
  
  The game implements a little bit of everything, simple and intuitive hand to hand combat, gun fights 
 (which are a little sloppy) , and fun driving. Most of the game takes place before the The Bourne 
 Identity (first movie) of what I have seen so far and it recreates some great moments from the 
 movie and it really immerses you in them because as the player you get to be Jason Bourne, and 
 experience the danger and espionage for yourself.
  
  The game itself is linear and doesn't allow you to explore too much but that isn't a bad thing. 
 The levels generally consist of lockpicking a door, killing the people inside, fight a boss down 
 the road, rinse and repeat. It is a little repetitive at times but the Takedowns are so satisfying 
 that it doesn't matter.
  
  Takedowns are a computer controlled sequence that happens when you have at least one or more bars 
 of adrenaline stored up. At any time when one is filled you can press the O button and launch into 
 a series of killer moves that use the environment. If you're on the edge of a ship, expect to throw 
 them overboard. By a bar? Slam them into the drink dispensers and watch beer go flying. 
  
  The game has three levels of difficulty which can be changed at any time, and it incorporates accomplishments 
 into the game. Overall it's a major success and far better then most movie games I've ever played.
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ao28
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 7, 2008 5:52 am PT
Review:  Movies that turn into games are normaly medicore or worse. Very few have broken that. Lego Star 
 Wars, Lego Indiana Jones, Goldeneye, and a few more. We need to ad the Bourne Conspiracy to that 
 list. Let's say you are running down a corridor in an embassy when the gate ahead of you starts 
 closing. The game prompts you to press a button, so you do and get under the gate. Then after the 
 gate, the soldiers behind you open fire, and you barely escape being shot. Then, you find yourself 
 surrounded, so you take them all down Bourne style, or brutaly if you want to call it that. This 
 game has very tense moments. I found myself standing instead of sitting most of the game. You are 
 just waiting for that button press that comes from nowhere. The shooting is not great, but not 
 medicore either. it works how it is supposed to work. And it works well most of the time, but sometimes 
 it doesn't. Overall if you have any interest at all in secret agent games, rent or buy this one, 
 you won't be disapointed at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadow_ninja_20
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 6, 2008 4:28 am PT
Review:  its finally here the much anticipated Bourne Conspiracy The developers have stuck true to the books 
 and movies using familiar quotes and scenes the big downside is for ps3 owners it has a whopping 
 5 gig install and it still has mid level load times although that aside its still an awesome ride 
 The game starts with our hero bourne in the middle of the ocean where immediately we are shown 
 the games premise and its twist its more of a string of flashbacks that sends the player deeper 
 into the bourne universe where you the player will play the failed wombosi assassination to escaping 
 Russian police after a well timed shot to the targets head, this doesn't bring anything new to 
 the story but is just an excuse to make the player feel more like an assassin rather than bourne 
 himself which is a little bit of a let down the game play is nothing you haven't seen before fans 
 of uncharted resident evil will feel right at home with this game the game bases around two things 
 hand to hand and shooting the hand to hand is just plain awesome the fights are structured in three 
 phases first when you are in proximity with an enemy bourne will attack automatically with a kick 
 or a flurry of punches then the second part starts where you lay into the enemy yourself the control 
 scheme is a two button lay out one for light attacks and one for heavy attacks and a combination 
 of theses two will mix up your attack making you far less predictable to the enemy when your adrenaline 
 meter is one third full its then you can totally break some limbs and initiate some serious hurt 
 and the final phase of the fight will start this is a take down a simple press of a button will 
 show why the fighting is so awesome however if you have more than a third of your meter full you 
 can do muti take down these aren't as cool as the single take downs but trust me you can never 
 get sick of seeing the same action twice and rare thing to accomplish for a game next up is the 
 shooting its a little iffy yes but it is workable when your weapon is drawn the camera will shift 
 to an over the shoulder view where head shot after head shot will occur yes it sounds funny but 
 the aiming system is a great help lining up head shots after my first fun though i had 300 total 
 so the aiming is decent any way bourne has access to all kinds of guns shot guns rifles pistols 
 Uzis etc and he can use them with ease its worth noting that hand to hand can still occur wile 
 in armed combat so be aware now much like hand to hand bourne can do shooting take downs which 
 in a nutshell will kill up to 3 people depending on your adrenaline meter and now for the bad part 
 driving it was fast yes and it did have effort put in to it the problem was the car itself it had 
 no weight to it and i crashed more than i could count and for get about the slo mo ability Jason 
 has behind the wheel its point less thank fully it only had one level and it was over in 15 min 
 with all these things going for the game it was so addicting i found myself finishing in one sitting 
 this is at least a nine hour game you would think that all these things that make the game so great 
 satisfy the player and have him finish the game in nine hours its like eating a perfectly cooked 
 steak only its the size of your palm this is just bad design choice if its a good game make sure 
 it stays that way for longer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sqwishyxgar
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 5, 2008 7:51 pm PT
Review:  The game play itself, however fun it is at first, is repetitive. The missions themselves are really 
 cool, and the creators had a very good idea in mind, but it all felt a little empty at the end. 
 Having beat it in about 8 hours, it just didn't seem to cover as much as I would have expected. 
 Who knows, maybe I built it up too much in my head, I am after all a huge Jason Bourne fan. It's 
 not to be said that the game isn't worth playing, but if you are expecting to be on the edge of 
 your seat while playing, then go pick up GTA, it has more to offer after 8 hours. 
  The combat is also kind of empty, mind you Jason has some incredible moves and the game gets the 
 mood and the pace down right, it's just that every battle has the same layout. punch punch punch, 
 block while your opponent punches then punch punch punch yet again until you can perform a takedown 
 that doesn't really do any significant damage, but looks really awesome.
  With the ending set to just about guarantee a sequel I hope that next time a little more goes into 
 the story, after all the best part about Jason Bourne is feeling for him. Understanding why he 
 does what he does. Just like in God of War when you played as Kratos, every swing of those blades 
 felt like it was taking you somewhere, and you felt for his character. Well that is what the next 
 game needs, some reason behind Jasons actions. 
  As for this game, become the weapon, become bourne, become $60 poorer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RudeBoy7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with apprehension on release day. I was pleasantly surprised with the quality 
 this game has displayed. You control Jason Bourne from the books NOT the movie so there are no 
 appearances by Matt Damon. The game is about 60% prequel to the first movie and 40% from the first 
 movie from what I have researched on interviews. I am what seems to be about half way through the 
 game, and loving it. The only complaint I can come up with is it seems to be a little short. There 
 are 3 difficulty settings to choose from at the beginning and I chose the middle one. Accomplishments 
 have been integrated with what I hope to be future integration directly with Home. I am pleased 
 with the purchase as it seems to be a good balance of fighting, shooting, and cinema with some 
 driving thrown in. I would say this would be a MUST RENT for sure, but if you are a fan of the 
 movies or have read any of the books you may agree with me as a MUST BUY. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
