-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rock Band 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/puzzle/rockband2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 80-plus songs on disc.
 Ability to import songs (for a $5 fee) from Rock Band.
 Online World Tour mode.
 Great gameplay is a blast alone or with friends.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Very few significant changes since the first game.
 Some songs aren't much fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 9.1, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 668 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MTV Games
Developer: Harmonix Music
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Oct 19, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even though Rock Band 2 plays it safe with only minor improvements and additions, it still rocks. 
 

  The first Rock Band revolutionized the way music games were played; however, its sequel is more 
 of an evolutionary step forward. A huge song list and the ability to play World Tour mode online 
 are the biggest attractions -- very little else has changed. It's more of the same, but it's still 
 awesome.  

  The gameplay you've come to know and love from the first game is intact in Rock Band 2. You can 
 sing, play drums, guitar, or bass alone, or get three friends together and jam as a band. There 
 are a few drum solos here and there (scored in the same way as guitar solos) and spoken-word parts 
 seem to be more forgiving, but those are the only noticeable differences in the gameplay. RB2 is 
 compatible with the instruments from the first game as well as the Guitar Hero 3 &amp; World Tour 
 guitar controllers. At the time this review, the World Tour drum kit does not work with the PS3 
 version of Rock Band 2. If you're in the market for new equipment, Harmonix has released a new 
 guitar and drum kit that are now available as individual purchases or as a bundle. For more information 
 on the new hardware, visit our  reviews blog  for hands-on impressions.  

           Like Rock Band? You'll like Rock Band 2.      

  Rock Band was a great party game, 
 but even on the lowest difficulty setting its learning curve could be daunting for some. Nothing 
 would bring a jam session to a screeching halt like failing a song repeatedly because someone couldn't 
 play the bass part on easy. That's no longer a problem thanks to the no-fail setting, which will 
 let you continue rocking even if your band is so awful it makes Paris Hilton seem like a talented 
 musician. Another tool designed to help newcomers (or experienced yet lousy) drummers is the drum 
 trainer. This presents you with a series of progressively more complex beats that you'll need to 
 be able to play to get through the game. It's a neat idea, but once you've gotten the basics down 
 you're probably better off practicing actual songs in Practice mode than spending time with the 
 drum trainer. The fill trainer, however, is more valuable. It teaches you a number of fills to 
 use during gameplay. Not only will this spice up your fills so they'll sound good, but it will 
 also help your bandmates stay with the beat because you're playing something that makes musical 
 sense -- not just banging away like some sort of rhythmically challenged kid playing with pots and 
 pans.  

  The Rock Band 2 disc includes more than 80 songs encompassing a wide variety of bands and styles. 
 The full track list is available  here . Pearl Jam, The Who, AC/DC, Bob Dylan, Nirvana, Red Hot 
 Chili Peppers, Metallica, and Smashing Pumpkins are among the game's better-known artists, but 
 there are plenty of newer acts, such as Avenged Sevenfold, Interpol, Rise Against, and Paramore. 
 The tracklist is generally quite good, but it's not always fun. The focus on niche artists and 
 lesser-known cuts from popular artists will present a challenge for most singers since it's unlikely 
 they'll know many of the tunes right off. How many folks can even name a tune other than "Whip 
 It" from Devo? Yet, we get "Uncontrollable Urge" instead. Some songs, such as "Tangled up in Blue," 
 "Hungry Like the Wolf," and "Bad Reputation" are simply too long to be enjoyable more than a few 
 times. The ability to play shortened versions as you can in the SingStar karaoke games would have 
 been welcome.  

           It costs a lot of money to look this good.      

  The game comes with a code that will let you download 20 bonus songs. A full list is available 
  here . One thoughtful feature is that you can rip 55 of the 58 songs from the first Rock Band 
 onto your hard drive and play them in Rock Band 2 after paying a one-time five-dollar fee. The 
 songs will take up a hefty 1.5 GB of space and you have to rip them all at once, but after they're 
 on your hard drive you can remove individual songs. Any tunes you may have downloaded for Rock 
 Band are also compatible with Rock Band 2. Both ripped and downloaded songs are seamlessly integrated 
 into World Tour mode. While this adds some variety to the mix, it also means you're going to unlock 
 new songs at a slower pace because of all the old tunes sprinkled in.  

  Speaking of World Tour mode, a few improvements have been made, but it's not a whole heck of a 
 lot different than it was last year. Solo artists will be interested in knowing that World Tour 
 is the only mode in which you can unlock songs; there's no linear solo mode anymore. You'll start 
 by creating a rocker, a band (the random band-name generator is awesome) , and then go on tour to 
 earn cash, fans, and stars. Your created rocker is no longer tied to a specific instrument, so 
 you can switch at your leisure. Last year you were forced to bump up the difficulty if you wanted 
 to keep earning fans late in the tour; this year you can gain fans (albeit at a slow rate) even 
 if you're playing at low difficulty settings. As you tour you'll play single songs as well as custom, 
 preset, and mystery setlists. You'll earn transportation so that you can play different cities 
 and new songs as well. You can now hire different promoters and personnel, but they don't have 
 much effect on your progression. There are also challenges to tackle along the way. These score-based 
 challenges are set up by Harmonix and pit your rock skills against the rest of the world. This 
 is fun if you're amazing, but when you average 99 percent on expert over three songs and you don't 
 crack the top thousand, you realize the mode isn't for everyone. Battle of the Bands mode, which 
 lets bands go head-to-head to see who's the best, is another new score-based option that's good 
 for skilled players with a competitive streak, but less enticing for casual players.  

  The big addition to World Tour is that you can have people join your band or you can join their 
 groups and play through the mode online. This is great if you're playing with friends and you're 
 working your way through your own tour, but it's significantly less fun when playing with random 
 strangers online -- you're not earning any progress for your own band (only cash) , and you're stuck 
 playing the songs they want to play. That said, its inclusion is the most notable new feature and 
 is a welcome one at that.  

           Bust a high score in a challenge and prove that you're the king of rock.      

  It 
 shouldn't be much of a surprise that Rock Band 2 looks just like the first Rock Band. Custom rockers 
 have more outfits to choose from and look truly outrageous. Their onstage moves match their clothing, 
 too. All band members are animated to the music and feature a wide range of moves that, while hard 
 to notice while you're playing, are entertaining for anyone watching you play. The grainy filter 
 that was a tad overdone in the original game is toned down here, and the graphics look better for 
 it. Needless to say, the game sounds fantastic. Not only do the original recordings add a lot to 
 the proceedings, but little touches, like the crowd singing their favorite parts of the song, really 
 make it feel as if you're playing a live set in front of an appreciative audience.  

  Rock Band 2 delivers about what you'd expect from a game released just 11 months after its predecessor. 
 That may be a little underwhelming for people who put their lives on hold for the original, but 
 you're still left with a fantastic experience that's unmatched as far as party games go.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AudioPrison
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:29 am PT
Review:  The second addition in the Rockband series by Harmonix Music has finally joined my PS3 game library. 
 After playing the first one for months and ploughing through the solo careers until my eyes and 
 fingers almost bled I couldn't wait until Rockband2 was available to pre-order.
  Tuesday the 27th of March and I had came home from school to find the game through my letter box. 
 I rushed upstairs and shoved it into my console. My first impressions of the game were pritty good: 
 the graffics were admirable, the song library was better than the last one since I knew most of 
 the newer and more more classic songs on it such as Paramore - That's what you get, Duran Duran 
 - Hungry like the wolf, Avenged Sevenfold - Almost Easy, System Of A Down - Chop Suey etc.
  At first I was a little confussed about the layout of the options that you could play in. There 
 wasn't any solo career! I later found out that to play on your own you would have to got into "Tour" 
 and then create a band and just choose what instrument you were going to play; unlike the last 
 game where you had to have at least two people to play on a tour. The good thing about this feature 
 is that you can still live out the career path of a rockband but not have to worry about anybody 
 else failing a song or being embarrassed that you failed one urself. If you do prefer to be playing 
 this with a buddy and still hate being embarrassed or someone else spoiling your note streak then 
 Harmonix have put in a really handy "No Fail" feature. You can suck at this game and still manage 
 to finnish a song without panicking that your performance bar is flashing red.
  Another good feature that I liked about this game is that the songs that you downloaded for the 
 first Rockband are still playable in Rockband2 (which I was thankfull for because they never did 
 show up on my Rockband game) and this helps put a "personal" touch to your song library and makes 
 the game a little more enjoyable. 
  Rockband2 gives you and mates a chance to make your skills increase by completing a series of challenges 
 that if you complete you earn a nice little animated trophy for you PSN account, but is not able 
 to be played by one person. Unfortunatly at least two people have to be playing.
  The game still holds a good multiplayer option online, whether it's playing in a band with strangers 
 or battling to see who is better at what. It is still good entertainment. Not much improvement 
 has been made to the character creater either, it is still the same basic hair cuts and clothes 
 with a few new additions to the wordrobe. As for the art options most of them are new.
  All in all the game its self better in the fact that there are new songs on it. Most of the older 
 features are still there with a few improvements added but unfortunatly they arn't anything special. 
 Although I was a little disappointed with it I still enjoy playing it from time to time - just 
 not as much as I did with the first one. In my opinion, these kind of games have lost there novelty 
 of being a breakthrough in interactive gaming. If Harmonix want's to build up a really big hype 
 about their next Rockband addition their going to have to come up with something completely new 
 and exciting instead of just putting in a few tweeks here and there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bl00dnFl4mes
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 19, 2009 2:57 pm PT
Review:  I used to be a GH fanboy, and I used to think that RB sucked. One day I decided to give RB2 a try, 
 so I bought it, and loved it! At first I wasn't too pleased with the timing window (especially 
 HO/POs) , but I got used to it. I love all of the features it gives!
  
  -Over 500 songs now (with all the DLC)
  -Bass Groove (6x multiplier)
  -Amazing tracklist
 
  -Drums Fills/Big Rock Endings/Solos
  -Drum Trainer
  -Online is amazing
  
  I just wish GHWT was as good. In RB2, I can find someone online within a minute or so. On GHWT, 
 I would search for a long time before I found someone.
  
  Both GHWT and RB2 share a lot of songs, and RB even has some GH3 songs available for full band 
 (Closer, Hit Me With Your Best Shot, My Curse, Hier Kommt Alex, 3's and 7's..... etc)
  
  If you haven't checked out this game yet, GET IT!! You won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshjo9
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2009 4:19 pm PT
Review:  rock band 1 was no big deal fun short game then rock band 2.
  it was better than i thought it would be a perfect game and realy good songs well 600 song so i 
 geuss it has good songs. But i like the more screamo which they dont have much of. guitar hero world 
 tour was good but realy bad songs the only good songs are scream aim fire and the kill but rock 
 band 2 has alot of songs to pick from. i like doing each song and seeing if i can do them on expert 
 and yes . my favorite game for ps3 and it gets a 10 out of 10.
  its not my opionion that counts but it is your .and also mine is you listen and please do because 
 this game deserves it and guitar hero world tour and all the other guitar heros. try this first 
 and if you like it buy it my opinion isnt as important as yours 
  so try it like it buy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: muzik_mafia
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:03 pm PT
Review:  I got both GHWT and RB2 for Christmas, so I'm not bias to start... at first I only played GHWT, 
 which had a great start... and when I first popped in RB2 I was disappointed, all I could play 
 were songs by bands I didn't know like "Welcome To The Neighbourhood". But after a while, some 
 great songs got unlocked, and the old ones grew on me. 90% of the songs are fun to play, and all 
 the little things really work. It's difficult, but not too stupidly difficult. Then I went back 
 to Guitar Hero, and realized how much it sucked. Even with the Guitar Hero instruments, it seemed... 
 out of place. Rock Band is the FAR, FAR superior version. FFFFFFFFFF FFFFFFFFFFF FFFFFFFFFF FFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF 
 FFFFFFFF FFFFFFFFFFFFFFF FFFFFFFFFFFFFFIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 
 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII ILLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLL 
 LLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLLLLL LLLLLLLLL LLLEEEEEEE EEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE 
 EEEEEEEEE RRRRRRRRRR RRRRRRR RRRRRRRRR RRRRRRRR RRRRRRRRRRR RRRRRRRRR RRRRRRR RRRRRRRRRRR RRRRRRRRRRR 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonderac
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Worried if I'd be good at first, but once I started there has been no putting it down. The drum 
 set that comes with the full set is not cracked up to be much, and if you get caught up then look 
 for ION, it's the way to go. The guitar and microphone are great, and actually I prefer RB2's over 
 GH's. While GH has more "detailed" statistics after each session, and more abilities to customize 
 your character, it doesn't even come close to what RB2 offers! Moving forward by simply touring, 
 having different people/items/points to strive for, OR just do challenges which add another level 
 of trying to become better. RB2 is more focused on each player with drum solo's, guitar solo's, 
 and base grooves. I will state that while singing having to tap the microphone to hit the "dead 
 area" round points catches you off guard and can be a tad annoying. Enjoy the BIG ROCK endings, 
 they are just awesome to jam and if you need it, a great way to pick those last few points to get 
 that fifth star! Don't get discouraged, just use the practice and free style modes if you need. 
 Even my 58 y/o father just bought this (we are waiting to try the online portion to invite him 
 into our band) and is having a total blast!! The songs are a tad leaning towards the heavy metal 
 side of things, but there are several great packs out there, No Doubt, Killers, David Bowie, The 
 Cars and many more. Rock on Top Performers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 6, 2009 11:40 pm PT
Review:  oh Rock Band...
  
  Storyline:
  
  In short, there isn't one but what happens from the beggining is you name your band and pretty 
 much just play around the world to earn fans and money to buy more clothes and guitars and stuff. 
 The only flaw with this system and where i think guitar hero is much better is the way you unlock 
 songs. In this "tour" mode you play through venues to unlock songs but the catch is, you have to 
 play the first maybe 10 or so songs at least 6 times each to unlock any more songs and you have 
 to keep doing that until you unlock all 80 songs which really sucks. Other than that, it's pretty 
 good and you will still have a blast playing the tour by yourself or even better, with a friend 
 or best, 3 friends.
  
  Graphics:
  
  There's nothing really to say about the graphics because they don't really matter but the textures 
 and effects of the notes are extremely good and really add to the Rock Band experience.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  Better than Guitar Hero... that's all i can really say. if you haven't played a 
 music game before, this game is going to be a ***** to play. but like me, i can now play on expert 
 guitar and consistently get 90%+ which is really great but seeing as i just got the drums... i've 
 got a lot of learning to do. The notes are great and give you a bit of leeway in hitting them exactly 
 on the beat... more than guitar hero which makes it a bit easier but not much. The song list is 
 great and the only reason i actually got this game is because there's 3 Avenged Sevenfold songs 
 (1 on disc, 2 for download) and a lot of amazing songs on the disc for download.
  
  Multiplayer:
  
  This component is great fun online but when you have 3 of your friends over 
 on one screen... this is the most fun i've had with local multiplayer since 4 player split screen 
 in Call of Duty 4 on Shipment :) it's really a blast to play, no lag and just a great matchmaking 
 system and song choice system.
  
  Overall: Great songlist and amazing online and offline multiplayer make this the best music game 
 EVER!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2009 11:01 am PT
Review:  If you want a way to relax and unleash your inner rock star, there's really no better way to do 
 it than by playing Rock Band. Guitar Hero is alright... but come on, there's multiple songs from 
 single bands and a handful of songs en espanol, not to mention how ridiculous the purple finger-tapping 
 zigzag stuff is. Rock Band has an exceptional set list including some band's greatest hits like 
 Down with the Sickness, Any way you want it, Rock'n Me, and a handful of one hit wonders. The guitar 
 and bass peripherals are not over charted like they are on Guitar Hero. The overall atmosphere 
 is just more inviting than it's counterpart's. In-game advertising is aplenty on Guitar Hero World 
 Tour. DLC in RB2 is an extremely nice feature and you are guaranteed to find something you like 
 in there. Guitar Hero has very little to choose from in there DLC store and there's a good chance 
 you won't find anything you like. 
  
  AND WHY IS MICHAEL JACKSON ON GUITAR HERO??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:54 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 was my favorite game even when I didn't have it, which is not normal. Bu this game 
 deserves praise and all that stuff. Play guitar, bass, microphone, or drums and rock the world!
 
  
  Concept
  Play Bass, Lead, Microphone, or drums and rock in major cities. Earn money, buy instruments or 
 clothes and get make-up.
  
  Graphics
  Whats the word I'm looking for... Its on the tip of my tounge... Oh yeah! Not much improvement 
 here but still great. (Actually i meant a couple words)
  
  Gameplay
  Easy controls, Easy is good for newcomers and deals first 3 frets. Medium, spice it up, and hard 
 gets you going. Expert, ROCK ON!!
  
  So if you love to p; lay an instrument or have annoying brothers/sisters who want to play whatever 
 you do, buy this.
  
  Up to 4 player
  1 Bass
  1 Guitar
  1Drum
  1 Singer
  In each band
  
  Create a character
  
  Rock the World 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sweetwater94
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2009 7:53 am PT
Review:  This is the best rhythm game I have ever played, and if you do not have I would HIGHLY recommend 
 it.
  
  First off, when judging a rhythm game the first thing that comes to mind are the instruments, and 
 they simply work great in Rock Band 2, without a single hiccup! I will have to admit this is my 
 first Rock Band game because before I was always a GH loyalist, but this made those games seem 
 mediocre. There is an option for calibrating your instruments if they are off the beat of the game, 
 but I had no need for this option. The drums and guitar are my favorite, but the vocals are great 
 too. The next important thing is the songlist, and this was awesome too. It had a diverse range 
 of songs, and my only real complaint is that for some bands like Devo they deliberately tried to 
 pick a song nobody listened to, which is great to get into less known songs but sometimes we just 
 want to play the hits, thank you very much. Another complaint of mine is a few other annoying songs 
 such as New Kid in School, but they pale in comparison to the often trashy GH songlists. This game 
 is best played with other people, but it is also fun by itself, and it is nice that you can continue 
 to play a band you started with other people alone. The mechanics of world tour mode are almost 
 flawless and it is cool being to play in all these different venues all over the world instead 
 of the like the 8 (not exact number) you can play in GH3. I had played Rock Band 1 had my friend's 
 house and I thought the instruments and gameplay were just overall much better.
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  These obviously are not the best graphics in the world because the main focus 
 was the musical part of the game, but they look pretty realistic and help build on the immersive 
 feel of this game.
  
  Gameplay: 10.0
  The gameplay is absolutely flawless and it is fun and addictive as well.
  
  Songlist: 8.5
 
  The songlist had many awesome picks like Down With The Sickness, but it also had one hit wonders' 
 lesser known songs like the one by Devo, and that nobody is gonna go out of their way to listen 
 to.
  
  Replayability: 9.5
  Even after you beat most of the songs in the game, most of them are so fun that you will find yourself 
 playing them over and over again, so far I have not gotten tired of this game.
  
  Overall: 9.5 (Not an average of above scores)
  This is the best rhythm game on the market and 
 if you have not bought it yet I highly recommend you do.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbower
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 6, 2009 5:52 am PT
Review:  I love this game. The game offers great game play and song selection. RB 2 is fun to play with 
 others or have your own solo career. The online game play is better than RB 1. Like being able 
 to play with friends who live miles away. The game offers a great selection of downloaded songs 
 to add to your collection. More bands should have their music available for the game play. Like 
 the solo career play in the second game better then in RB 1. I like the option of being able to 
 have a no fail mode. This is ideal if you are playing with children who might not be able to play 
 without that option. The battle of the bands feature is nice for you to pit your skills against 
 other players. I would like to see the option of gaining fans in battle of the bands. This game 
 can be very addicting. You can strive to have the most fans or the best solo rating in your solo 
 career. I would like the option of being able to "turn off" some of the songs that aren't fun to 
 play. More bands should have their music available for the game play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:11 pm PT
Review:  As a stand-alone game, Rock Band 2 does not do much that the first game didn't already do. Of course, 
 Rock Band 2 does them just as well (and in some cases a bit better) . I slightly prefer the song 
 list from the first game, but some of Rock Band 2's more noticeable additions include "Eye of the 
 Tiger," "Everlong," "Living on a Prayer."
  
  The game makes some much-needed tweaks and improvements to its interface, and a couple of minor 
 new gameplay modes, but the gameplay is virtually identical to its predecessor. The changes that 
 it does make could have easily been implemented as "expansion" add-ons to the first game (and in 
 fact, the Rock Band store was exactly that) . Song selection is easier than ever as the game gives 
 you the option to jump straight to a letter in the alphabet or category through a drop-down list. 
 The difficulty level for each song is displayed for the band as a whole and for each individual 
 instrument. Unfortunately, the game does not list these difficulties for songs in the career mode, 
 which again is virtually identical to last year's game. So if you don't mind spending $60 for what 
 is basically a track-pack, then go for it.
  
  If you're the kind of person who checks the Rock Band store every week for new content, and get 
 your friends together to rock out on a regular basis, then you should waste no time in buying this. 
 If you never owned the first Rock Band, then this is a great place to start as well (although you 
 might want to get a copy of the first game so you can import the songs) .
  
  Which brings me to its best feature, the full compatibility with the first game, and all its DLC. 
 Well, almost full compatibility. There are three songs that sadly can not be converted from the 
 first game: "Run to the Hills" by Iron Maiden, "Paranoid" by Black Sabbath (two of my favorite 
 songs from the first game) , and "Enter the Sandman" by Metallica. Including all of the first game's 
 songs and the DLC, there are about 4 or 5 hundred songs total. Sweet.
  
  Another nifty new feature is the "no fail" option, which makes Rock Band even more accessible for 
 parties, since new players will no longer fail the whole band out of a song. With "no fail" enabled, 
 if any instrument fails the song, the song will continue to its completion with everybody still 
 playing. You wont get a score for the song, and "no fail" may not be available in career mode, 
 but at least you won't be prompted to stop and start over if someone keeps failing that guitar 
 solo.
  
  Other new features include additional training and practice modes, and free drum player in which 
 you can play whatever you want or practice any of the game's drum tracks at speeds that can be 
 changed on-the-fly. Online competitive competitions, and frequently updated "challenges" are nice 
 additions as well.
  
  Unfortunately though, it would have been nice to see some of the improvements that Activision made 
 to Guitar Hero World Tour be incorporated into Rock Band 2. Such as open bass notes, or manual 
 drum fills. Personally, I would have liked to have seen support for multiple vocalists, or moving 
 the vocalist display to the bottom of the screen so that it is easier to see if you are singing 
 and playing another instrument.
  
  The optional addition of cymbals for the Rock Band 2 drum kit is also a pretty sweet new feature. 
 But the best new piece of hardware is the optional $300 ION drum set. Which is a fully functionaly 
 electronic drum set that can be played with Rock Band and Rock Band 2. Friggin SWEET! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beatmasta14
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  the frets are clicky and stiff and boxy and i dont like them compared to guitar hero mabe cause 
 i played that b4 i played rb.. but the drums are just so freekin amazing. the songs are good just 
 a bit anoying when you play the same song 5 times in an hour playing tour.. but still fun. and to 
 make this 100 words il type random stuff i have too = ( a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aaaa asdasd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd 
 asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd asd sda asd asd asd asd asddddddddddddd aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2009 4:52 pm PT
Review:  The Good
  
  Best track list in any music game I've played yet. I like metal.
  Some new cool items in the Rock Shop
  Challenging songs to keep you on the edge of your seat
 
  Lots of different features to keep the game feeling fresh
  Solo tour is long fun to play
  New game componets like hiring staff to play at different venues
  Actally makes you feel like 
 you're in a band
  Challenging trophies to obtain
  Fun online modes
  Rock Band finally gets Hyperspeed!
  
  The Bad
  
  Game gets repetitive after a while (solo 
 tour feels like it drags on)
  Instrument quality still doesn't beat Guitar Hero
  Way, way too similar to Rock Band 1
  
  In the end Rock Band 2 beats the first on by a mile! 
 Everything from the first has been made better and more appealing. If you're someone debating weather 
 to get RB2 or GHWT go with RB2. GHWT has too many bad songs, in my opinion. There are only a few 
 that I really like in GHWT. The one thing GHWT does do better though, is customization. So if you 
 want to make your rocker look cooler while playing boring songs then buy it, lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:08 am PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 isn't much different from the first Rock Band, but all those small annoying problems 
 we found in the first RB have been fixed and make RB2 a lot more enjoyable.
  
  For instance, a single character can play all the instruments, and that's a HUGE improvement, having 
 to make 3 versions of your character just play the different instruments was everything but funny. 
 Another cool thing is that you can make your bandmates, that is, you don't have to use the pre-rendered 
 characters anymore, you can have you own bandmates playing in-game even if no one is playing the 
 instrument in real life, and that is something I really appreciate, as well as the fact that now, 
 playing alone or with friends is equally fun, specially since the single-player mode used to be 
 so monotonous.
  
  The track list is just fine, a lot of cool songs, not to mention the 20 free downloadable songs, 
 and the fact that you can export all the songs from the original rock band for $5 make an awesome 
 selection.
  
  I still use the instruments from the original Rock Band, so I can't say if the new instruments 
 are btter or worse, but from what I heard, they should be a lot more reliable.
  
  Overall, Rock band 2 is just like the first one, but with some "updates" that make the game even 
 more awesome than it was a year ago, however, you might wanna think twice before spending $50 in 
 a game that's so much like the first one, but if you're a hardcore fan of Harmonix like me, you 
 should definitively buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpriego76
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  To me, the best thing about this game is that Harmonix got many of the things that made us PS3 
 players extremely upset finally right. The main thing most people complained about was that they 
 felt cheated when they popped the game in and tried to use their Guitar Hero 3 Les Paul as a second 
 guitar and, what do you know... it didn't work! Then we got caught in the middle of a greedy, bureaucratic 
 fist fight between Harmonix and Red Octane over royalties. In the end, those of us who got both 
 games hoping to use both guitars felt cheated out of their money. I am happy to report that in 
 Rockband 2, the GH3 Les Paul finally works! If you bought the first Rockband bundle and are thinking 
 of buying a second guitar (like I was) , for about the same price you can just get Rockband 2 and 
 get the compatibility patch they promised AND an extra set of 80 songs!
  
  The second good thing about this game (and its not the game) , is that for $5 you can export virtually 
 all of your RB1 songs into RB2 and more than double your repertoire. If you buy the Ac/DC live 
 or any other track pack, you can bundle all of those songs.
  
  Having said that, Rockband 2 as a game itself feels pretty much the same. the menus, other than 
 having different fonts, look the same. I like the fact that when playing with other people and 
 you scroll though songs, you can see the album artwork. However, all of the small improvements 
 in gameplay, in my opinion, do not merit paying another $60, other than the value of getting another 
 80 songs. Harmonix should have just released an update to the first game, add the patch to make 
 the GH3 guitar work, and add the songs to the Playstation store. Rockband 2, as a standalone game, 
 does not feel like a new game whatsoever. 
  
  If you don't have the first Rockband bundle and are thinking about getting the second one, think 
 about it first. The quality of their instruments is terrible. The drum set is a joke, the mic sounds 
 awful (I use the mic that came with my Karaoke Revolution and sounds MUCH better) , and don't get 
 me started on the guitar. Sadly, the competition's instruments (GH World Tour) do not offer much 
 hope either. It's better, if you have the $$, to buy the game by itself and them buy better quality 
 peripherals separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ymladdych
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  My best friend and I played this game for about 12 hours a day for the first few days that I owned 
 it. As the singer, he ended up losing his voice. As the drummer, I got a little hunchbacked and 
 arthritic in my hands. (Peeling my fingers off the sticks after a long session was no picnic.) 
 
  
  The playlist has tremendous variety, and quite a few groups gained 2 new fans because of this game. 
 I seriously doubt that anybody is going to like ALL of the songs, but that's sort of a challenge 
 by itself. It's easier to play a song that you know and like, and that can get boring. I know that 
 my group is never short on laughs when one or both of us are having issues with a hated song.
 
  
  We do have some minor complaints, though. There isn't a single major thing, but enough little things 
 that added up to bring down our enjoyment. 
  
  First, the character mod options are awful for a current title. Static faces (no individual feature 
 mods) ; limited and frequently NON-MATCHING color options on clothing, makeup, and gear (instead 
 of just providing a full color palette for free selection) .
  
  Second, the hardware bugs. It was a serious buzzkill to keep losing sets because my drum controller 
 would lose connectivity. Thanks to the forums, I was able to fix the problem, but still, why should 
 I have toilet paper shoved in my battery case on a $200 product? Why didn't they have a Styrofoam 
 strip glued on the panel in the first place?
  
  I also have an issue with the Bluetooth-only aspect. While on guitar, I had to step to the back 
 of the room because my singer was literally hurting my eardrums to land the metal songs. The extra 
 distance put my controller out of sync. I took the time to re-sync it, but it was never exactly 
 right. Later, I switched back to the drums, and I lost a set because they were closer to the system 
 and I had forgotten to reset the sync to zero. Frankly, wireless isn't THAT important to me. I'd 
 much rather have consistent timings without syncing every time I move 2 feet.
  
  In spite of these problems, though, Rock Band 2 is unbelievably fun, and I would recommend it to 
 anyone who loves group games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlopMeDo
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 16, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  I went over to a friends house and after a while, we started to play Rock Band.
  Man was it fun. SOme people were awesome at singing, some weren't (That was the fun part.) 
  
 For me the advantage of this over Guitar Hero is that with the microphone, guitar, or drums, on 
 those spots where you don't do anything, YOU CAN RANDOMLY SAY, BEAT, OR STRUM THINGS! My favourite 
 was singing because you could say weird things.
  
  The bad part of this game:
  I just can't imagine myself playing singleplayer alone.... if you're singing you'd immeadiatly shut 
 up or else you''ll look like a retard, if you play the guitar it's the same as Guitar Hero, and 
 drums.... it's fine but...... your just beating.... not much suspence..... I don't know how to explain 
 it but I hope you know what I mean.
  
  
  Another good part is that you could make a character that was plucked out of a gay anime!! : ) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterChief1694
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:24 pm PT
Review:  I always believed since the release of the first RB that it was just a sad copy of GH. I assumed 
 that rock band would improve on its absolute awful graphics and controllers, but it didnt. i played 
 this at my local wal-mart and i was very unimpressed. I played guitar and it feels horrible compared 
 to a GH one. the strum is crappy and the buttons are way too close together and i cant hammer on? 
 I dont know if that is a feature and i cant hit note strings without screwing up.. also, the graphics 
 are still pretty bad. they dont look next-gen at all. and the soundtrack on the demo is awful too. 
 The only good some os Chop Suey by System of a Down and i cant even play it because the guitar 
 is so cheap. but probably the best thing about rock band 2 is the drums. easiest to play. anyway, 
 dont waste your money on Rock Band, Guitar Hero right now is selling more copies than that of rock 
 band so pick the obvious choice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy2v2
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 15, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game yes is an extention of Rock Band 1. But I was kind of dissapointed with some of the songs 
 that they put on the game. Some songs were perfect for the game. Some songs should never be played 
 again. Most of all some songs never should of made it on the game. The store doesn't give out too 
 many new features which was really shocking the first time I played the game. But, Hey it's Rock 
 Band of course it's gonna be fun. If anyone reads this if you buy this game make sure you have 
 another game to play because this game can get boring after a long period of time. Another feature 
 I loved in the game was the drum trainer mode. The first time I used I thought "Yeah, Right, like 
 this is ever going to work". But later on the drum trainer lived up to its hype. I did make my 
 drum fills better and I actually got to pace myself better while playing the game. Buy This Game 
 NOW!!! f00lz 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djthebandit
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  I like this version much better. Why? Well, we are casual rockband players. By no means we can 
 do all the songs on hard. So in the past we would fail half way through the song. But what frustrated 
 us the most with the first version of this game was that we could not finish the actual world tour. 
 You needed to go up in difficulty, and we simply couldn't as we all don't have time to practice 
 till we can't feel our fingers anymore. So thereafter we were stuck playing quick play, or try 
 to improve our own scores.
  
  But now with this new version we can try and finish the world tour on our level, and just have 
 fun!
  
  I did like the songs on the 1st game better, but you can import those! Some songs are questionable, 
 or just irritatingly bad. 
  
  Other than that it's not much has changed. But for the casual gamer like myself, the little changes 
 they made, are the chance we really needed to truly enjoy the game.
  
  If you are a die-hard expert player, you might not notice any real differences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serpens_Solida
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Well, Ill be brief. This one has some modifications and improvements, and it helps a lot. But 
 the songs list is not as good as the first RB.
  On the other hand, the drums feel better... yes and no. More solid, but with some flaws. The batteries 
 get a bit loose and the drum set looses the connection with the PS3. And somehow, I miss a lot 
 more notes than with the first set; it is not as sensitive and responsive, and you gotta be more 
 precise when hitting the drums, even with the bass pedal is harder to hit notes.
  I've tried to calibrate it but the problem remains. By the way, the upper locks do not work properly, 
 after a bit of playing, the get loose and the drum kit sides down abruptly. I've had plenty of 
 fun, but those issues have made me feel a bit  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXRJXx13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  The encore to Rock Band has come back to satisfy our thirst for more songs. And i have to say, 
 im very pleased with the song list in this "upgrade". Of course it starts out easy then you work 
 your way up to the hardest, difficult, impossible songs. You may get ocasionally bored when trying 
 to unlock all the songs, which is a pain to do. Its easier to unlock all the songs through the 
 band challenges, which I did. Of course the world is going to be a pain to finish, again, but now 
 it will be less of a pain when you could play it online, instead of having to wait for someone 
 available in your house that knows how play the guitar, the drums, or for that matter, even sing. 
 I thought that was a nifty little tweak they that interested me in buying it. Now, i havent played 
 world tour yet, (still trying to beat stupid "Visions" :p and playing through my AC/DC Live Pack) 
 but I'm hyped to start a band online with a few of my friends. As for instruments, I don't know 
 first-hand how they work, but I've heard some complaining about it short-cicuiting or something. 
 I've also heard that it just stops working but the light still tells you its on. Also that the 
 battery holder doesn't hold the batteries. Also that the drum heads drop a lot of precious and 
 needed notes, and sometimes the drum net to the one you hit registers on the game. Havent heard 
 anything negative about the guitar yet, but I'm sure it will soon come out. Aside the instruments, 
 this addictive game still dilivers to music loving fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lindseyiluvyou
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Now sure i am one of the guys who always liked Guitar Hero since i played the first one but rock 
 band is sweet now i never play it because i don't own it my friend does and i am gonna get the 
 new Guitar Hero game so i won't try it out but it is awesome. Now Guitar Hero came first and then 
 Rock Band basically copied it but they had a better copy graphic wise and game wise. Now it is 
 Guitar Hero's turn to copy Rock Band and i am still getting guitar hero but if you want my opinion 
 i would take rock band over guitar hero anytime now i am not getting it because Guitar Hero is 
 the best when it comes to my family no one but me likes rock band but it is really fun playing 
 Rock Band i played it once but it was AMAZINGLY FUN. So you have a choice between Guitar Hero world 
 tour and Rock Band 2 PICK ROCK BAND I AM BEGGING YOU 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSSJDanny
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game and its always fun to play when people are over, only thing i really want that 
 i don't have yet is the ION Drum Rocker
  
  I actually bought Guitar Hero World Tour and played for no more than 10 minutes and hated it... 
 its to kiddie. I am trying to go and return it (Guitar Hero World Tour) .
  
  Pros:
  -Good Songs
  -Online Tour Mode
  -Rock Band 1 and Download Content songs transferable
  -Easier 
 to sing now
  -More instruments, clothes tatoo's, to buy now
  -Challenges and Band Vs Band Mode
  -Only need to make one character now (They can switch to any 
 instrument now) .
  
  Cons:
  -Wish there was a little more clothes and instruments to buy
  
  I really disliked Guitar Hero 
 World Tour they were really only meant to make that game for one instrument... and that's obviously 
 in the title. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  After the success of Rock Band, it was obvious a sequel would arise, and now over a year later 
 we now have this game in our hand's and oh boy is it great.
  
  First thing's First, this game isn't innovative over the 1st but is the same concept but with a 
 whole lot more feature's. The game feature's a Tour Mode unlike the single player Tour from Rock 
 Band but like it's Band Multiplayer Mode. Cool thing about this is, it add's alot more fun and 
 length to the game aswell as actual story.
  
  At any time during this you can play alone or with a friend and you no longer pick your difficulty 
 as your "Tour" mode but now pick it before a song which is really fun when you have a Friend who 
 stop's over.
  
  As i said before, this is the finest Rythem based game. One reason of that is its soundtrack which 
 is near gold over any other game. It has something for any Rock Fan. If You Like Fast Metal, there's 
 the great "Battery" by Metallica, "Chop Suey" by System of a Down, "Peace Sell's" By Megadeth, 
 "Down With The Sickness" by Disturbed and "Almost Easy" By Avenged Sevenfold just to name a few 
 of the great song's.
  
  Classic fan's get such great act's as Rush and Cheap Trick and even the dying to have in a game, 
 AC/DC (which is Freakin' Awesome) . The Chart's for the song's are very accurate to the real thing's 
 (as I play Real Instrument's) and are the best charted in any Game of it's kind.
  
  During your Tour, you unlock Buses, Van's, and Jet's and also unlock chances to Hire Staff member's 
 and play special Gig's like Benefit Show's (which convert to Trophies for those PS3 Tropy Whore's 
 out there) . This makes you feel like a Rock Band Raising up to your fame which is something Guitar 
 Hero doesn't do that well now.
  
  Now I have Re-Bought the Rock Band 2 instrument's and since this is a review, I will do a Complete 
 Up and Down Review on anything Rock Band 2 by reviewing the Instrument's.
  
  Drum's: Much Much Much Improved over the 2007 version of the drum's. They are far more responsive 
 than the 1st game (coming from someone who has modded his old one's) . The Re-bound on these drum's 
 are great and the Pad's make far less noise which won't result in pissed off family member's no 
 more!
  
  Guitar: Basically, a updated Guitar from last year, with a sleak wood design and a much better 
 Strummer, that is less Squishy.
  
  Mic: So far to me, it seems to be the same mic packaged in last year's release. So, it is still 
 a good Microphone for you singer's out there.
  
  Therefore, this is the best Rythem game till Rock Band 3 or GH: Metallica (Why can't it be RB: 
 Metallica!) . This should be picked up by any fan of it's genre or someone jsut trying to have some 
 fun with themselves or their friend's.
  
  5/5: Must Buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konkero
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Ever since I was a kid I loved listening to music. I use to buy cds for some amazing bands and 
 listen to them on my first CD player. Now Rock Band 2 revives these old songs as one of the greatest 
 hits today. While playing Eye of the Tiger, Hungry like the wolf and Livin' on a prayer. Unlike 
 Rock band 1 you had fair amount of old songs, now Rock Band 2 has a huge amount of old and new 
 songs. Rock Band 2 even offers a new way to battle people on online. For example Battle of the 
 Bands, World tour tournaments and Tug of War. Either than just playing online, Rock Band 2 has 
 a trophy list that gamers are able to recieve when completing a given assignment. The trophies 
 on Rock Band 2 are somewhat easy compared to getting the really hard trophies in just a couple 
 of days. Obtain Rock Band 2 today, you won't regret getting it after you mastered the instruments. 
 It's a great transition from playing Rock Band to Rock Band 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RomanticFool
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:23 am PT
Review:  Rock Band 2 entered my life on its release day. I'm not really that much of a fan of rhythm based 
 games - I prefer strategy or twitch to something that requires me to memorize chord progressions 
 and what not.
  
  Rock Band 2 has my attention.
  
  Maybe its the strangely addictive play with my suitemates, maybe its the fact that the vocals now 
 actually enable someone who has singing experience to sing and not want to throw the mic across 
 the room due to simplifications in the song, or maybe its that its *just so much fun to play*.
 
  
  It can't be the first - one of my suite mates started a solo band that he works on and he has sunk 
 so many hours into it that it cant be healthy. But for me, the next two are especially important 
 if I'm ever going to feel like playing this alone (well, as alone as you can get with an internet 
 connection) - I've got to enjoy what I'm doing. And the fact is that the Harmonix crew did a fantastic 
 job of actually getting songs right this time. When a vocalist slides in the song because he was 
 up all night before, or shot up in the back before coming on stage, its actually there in this 
 one too, something I noticed was missing from the first. It's encouraging that I can pick up the 
 mic and do extremely well by doing my voice impressions of the artist - in fact it makes the songs 
 nearly effortless for me (but damn the female voices!!!) .
  
  The kit this time around is sturdy, strong, and looks damn good. The wireless instruments work 
 nearly without a hitch (they have transmitters that can be chained to one another such that you 
 only take up one USB port) - we've had to push the manual reset button on a transmitter chain twice, 
 once because the instrument had lost connectivity, the other because a normal controller that had 
 gone to sleep fought for the 1st player control spot and lost with the drumset, but wouldn't recognize 
 until the reset button was pushed. Again, all in all, we're extremely pleased with these instruments, 
 and the results that they've given.
  
  I'd highly suggest picking up the set, especially if you want to have fun with friends who aren't 
 normally apt to play video games (those girls that roll their eyes at the table will be all over 
 this when the realize they can sing) and enjoy playing the drums without fear of them snapping 
 in half. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lunchboxx10
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:19 pm PT
Review:  I am no stranger to music. I have over 10 days worth of songs on my iTunes from all genres yet 
 I still don't know half of the songs that are on rock band 2. The gameplay is good. The create 
 a rocker seems just like the one in rock band 1. The best part is you get to keep your old downloadable 
 songs on rock band 2. you need to purchase a thing online to be able to bring over your rockband 
 1 songs for $5. Now I won't have to keep switching games to play the fun songs. I am looking through 
 the newest downloadable songs right now and there are some pretty good ones. Most of them are from 
 albums though which I am personaly not interested in. Hardcore rockers will love this game if you 
 know all the oldies songs. It seems like this game was designed for 40 year olds rather than people 
 15-30 years old. Some more popular and recent songs would have been nice. Those are the kind the 
 girls like to play ;)
  
  
  edit: oh yea I forgot to mention the world tour mode. The way it is set up you have to play "set 
 lists" which consist of playing a bunch of songs right after another. I really don't like these 
 because I get tired and you have to play songs you already have unlocked. Maybe the sets could 
 have been put in a different mode and left out of the tour mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiidog
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  First off Rock Band 1 is a better game but since you can take all of the songs from RB1 and put 
 them on RB2 there is no reason not to get this if you've already gotten RB1. The reason RB1 is 
 a better game because the songs are more enjoyable. I havent unlocked all of the songs in RB2 but 
 i have played it for awhile and i have only heard 4 songs i would really ever want to play. I remember 
 in RB1 songs like Dont Fear The Reaper, When You Were Young, and Welcome Home. In RB2 we get Kids 
 in America and Eye of the Tiger. RB2 is a great game (dont get me wrong) it just have too many songs 
 that suck. I could think of a ton of other songs that would have been better choices. Since this 
 game is about music and songs, having annoying songs like these do take away from the rock experience. 
 Although this is true, there is plenty of extras that make up for this. Weekly downloadable songs 
 make up for some of the sucky songs and the presentation of the game is amazing. Customization 
 options are extensive and fun and trophies give you something to strive for. Overall this game, 
 presentation wise, is alot better than the first but the songs not so much. But with the ability 
 to take your RB1 songs and put them on RB2 make RB2 a justafiable purchase. 
  
  Closing Comment:
  If you havent gotten Rock Band 1 I advise getting that first so you can have 
 some of the best songs. If you already have RB1 then go ahead and pick up Rock Band 2. Although 
 not all the songs are as good as RB1, its still a great game and worth every penny.
  
  Presentation: 9.7
  Everything runs and looks smoothe.
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  Not a major improvement 
 over the RB1 but they are better.
  
  Sound: 10
  All of the songs are master tracks and they sound amazing.
  
  Gameplay: 9.7
  Although the 
 RB2 songs arent as good as the RB1 songs it is still an amazing game to play.
  
  Lasting Apeal: 9.8
  Rock Band in general is a fantastic franchise and game. With the weekly downloadable 
 content, online battling, trophies, replayability, and just its fun factor, RB2 will having coming 
 back daily for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HimeNoHogosha
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:57 pm PT
Review:  It does everything Rock Band 1 does, but better and more! 
  
  The user interface seems faster and smoother. The music store is a lot easier to access. Gameplay 
 is nearly the same, nothing to complain about. I did notice that sometimes the framerate would 
 suffer a bit. It's noticeable for me at the beginning of the song when the camera is panning across 
 the stage. Many of the character creation items are the same as the previous game, which is OK 
 but I wish there were more new items in addition to all of the old items. 
  
  I was disappointed that there was no head2head battle of the bands. You can only battle other bands 
 by points on a scoreboard, not live online. The new drum set seems more solid and noticeably quieter. 
 It is also wireless which is helpful. I was also slightly disappointed that the new guitar did 
 not look like the pictures that were released before. But that's not too big of a deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: filipino_boy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  I've only played for a little bit, but so far I like everything that I've seen. Being able to play 
 World Tour solo makes the game much more accessible. Character customization has been increased, 
 and there are a lot of new options. The trophies give something to shoot for and make the game 
 a bit more fun. Song selection is great, everyone will find something that they will like. Works 
 flawlessly with the Rock Band 1 instruments, that's what I'm using right now. Online has been improved 
 with the new modes, and I have experienced no lag with only a 768 kbps connection. Awesome that 
 it works seamlessly with all of your DLC without you doing anything, and the option to import almost 
 all of the songs from Rock Band 1 for only $5 is a bargain.
  
  
  Overall, great game and a great value. Must have for anyone who liked the first Rock Band. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
