-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Rock Band
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/puzzle/rockband/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 As party games go, this one tops the charts.
 Included hardware is a lot of fun to play with.
 Band world tour mode is severely addictive.
 Fantastic presentation.
 This game will probably make you a better drummer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 $170 price is a lot of money.
 Band world tour can't be played online.
 Some hardware reliability concerns.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 9.0, 2,160 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: MTV Games
Developer: Harmonix Music
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Rock Band does a superb job of bringing out the wannabe rock star in all of us, and creates one 
 of the best party-game experiences of all time. 

  Rock Band is every wannabe musician's dream. A game that takes the four key instruments one needs 
 to make a band a  rock  band (guitar, bass, drums, vocals) , and builds a highly playable and intensely 
 addictive game around them. To a degree, developer Harmonix got a head start on the process of 
 creating Rock Band when it developed the first two Guitar Hero games, but whereas those games were 
 all about the decidedly solo act of severe simulated shredding, Rock Band goes in an entirely different 
 direction. The solo play has taken a backseat to cooperative multiplayer. This game is all about 
 the act of performance as a band, getting a group of four people together and working together 
 to get the highest score bonuses possible as a group, all while fake guitaring and realistically 
 singing and drumming your way through more than 40 different licensed rock hits. The steep $170 
 price tag for the game and bundled hardware might prove to be a barrier for entry for some, and 
 in addition, the hardware itself comes with a few flaws. But if you're willing to make the investment, 
 Rock Band is a guaranteed good time for any music lover, and one of the best party games you'll 
 ever play.  

           Get some friends, shove some fake instruments into their hands, and prepare to rock.  
     

  In a sense, Rock Band is a little like three distinct games built into one. First, there's the 
 guitar game, which lets you play approximately the same sort of game as Guitar Hero on guitar and 
 bass, but with a few key differences. For one, the guitar itself is built quite differently from 
 the Guitar Hero guitars. It's bigger, with a longer neck, and its body feels more solid. The fret 
 buttons are larger, and are flush against the neck of the guitar, and there is a second set of 
 narrower fret buttons all the way down the neck that you can tap on for solos. The guitar even 
 comes with a built-in effects switcher, which puts effects like echo, flange, and wah-wah over 
 the in-game guitar track. The only difference between guitars in the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 
 versions of the game is the fact that people who buy the 360 version get a wired guitar, whereas 
 PS3 owners get a wireless one. On the flip side, PS3 owners don't get a USB hub to connect all 
 the instruments to, whereas 360 owners do. That shouldn't be an issue if you have an older PS3, 
 but if you have a newer one with the two USB ports, you'll need to buy one of those hubs separately. 
 It's also worth noting that you only get one guitar with the bundle on either platform, but if 
 you own a Guitar Hero guitar for the 360, you can use it with the 360 version of Rock Band.  

 
  The actual guitar gameplay isn't much different from Guitar Hero, with you strumming along and 
 periodically tilting the guitar to engage "overdrive" (the game's equivalent of star power) , but 
 a couple of neat twists do add some flavor. For one thing, solos are given their own scoring section 
 in each song, and the game tracks the percentage of notes hit during a solo. The higher the percentage, 
 the higher the score bonus you get at the end of the solo.  

  The guitar game is of good quality, though a couple of things about it might drive a few longtime 
 Guitar Hero fans batty. For one, the difficulty of the game is a good deal less challenging than 
 what the hardcore Guitar Hero fan base is probably accustomed to at this point. The goal with Rock 
 Band seems to be more about bringing in newcomers, so as a result, the difficulty level sits somewhere 
 between Guitar Hero and Guitar Hero II overall. Not a bad thing if Guitar Hero III gave you conniption 
 fits, but potentially less exciting for some of the hardcore guitar gamers out there. Also of note 
 is that the note charts for guitar are handled a bit differently, with notes that can be pulled 
 off via hammer-ons and pull-offs appearing as half-sized notes on the chart. It's not quite as 
 easy to see these notes as in, say, Guitar Hero III, so you might end up screwing up a few solos 
 until you get used to this new methodology.  

  Lastly is the guitar itself. It's a good guitar, but it does some things differently than the standard 
 GH model guitars. The strummer doesn't click when you strum up or down, and the fret buttons seem 
 a bit less forgiving in terms of timing in solos and other, tougher sections. It's not that it's 
 bad or wrong -- it's just different, and it takes some getting used to. Also, you're not going to 
 get a ton of mileage out of things like the second set of buttons and the effects switch. Most 
 people will probably forget the switch is even there until they accidentally turn on wah-wah, and 
 sliding down to the second button set is a bit vexing to do just as you're about to head straight 
 into a solo, since it takes a while to get accustomed both to the smaller buttons and to finding 
 exactly where they are on the neck without staring at the guitar for a few seconds. Fake-guitar 
 virtuosos will probably dig it, but most people will likely stick to the standard method.  

  Next there's the singing game, which closely emulates the mechanics of Karaoke Revolution and 
 SingStar, but, again, with a couple of specific differences. You sing along as the lyrics display 
 on the screen, trying to match your vocal pitch to the meter that moves up and down with the original 
 vocal track. The key thing about singing is that the number of sections where a singer actually 
 gets to do his or her thing is somewhat limited. But even those down moments aren't left for pure 
 silence. Sometimes the vocal area of the screen will turn yellow, indicating for you to "make some 
 noise," which then engages overdrive. There are also sections where you can simply tap the microphone 
 to the rhythm of the song to get a tambourine or cowbell section going.  

           If you've ever played a Karaoke Revolution game, the singing mechanics should be immediately 
 familiar.      

  Beyond these wrinkles, the core of the vocal game design is to just sing, sing, sing... and occasionally 
 rap. If there is any complaint to be made about the vocals, it's that it doesn't leave a lot of 
 room for interpretation. On the higher difficulty settings, the game is extremely intent on you 
 hitting the mapped pitches as closely as possible, even in situations where it seems like the mapped 
 pitches aren't quite exact to what the original vocalist is doing. The same goes for the timing 
 of each word. In some songs vocalists will trail off, but you can't really do that and still get 
 the max score, which makes the vocals feel a bit robotic. Still, most vocal pieces are quite fun 
 regardless, and in a nice touch to help middling vocalists everywhere, you can adjust the original 
 vocal track volume via the controller as you play, so you can use it for as much or as little of 
 a guide as you prefer.  

  Finally there are the drums, easily the most intense and enjoyable instrument of the bunch. The 
 kit consists of a collection of four color-coded pads and a kick pedal, along with a pair of drum 
 sticks. There's really no reference point for the drums portion of the game except for, well, real 
 drums. You hit the pads in time as you would with a realistic drum kit, and on expert, the game 
 practically maps out each song's drum part note for note. Make no mistake: When you are playing 
 on expert, you are playing the drums. If you can do well on expert, you can probably pull out a 
 decent beat on a real drum set at will. The good news for novices is that easy difficulty does 
 a pretty good job of easing you into the act of drumming. The number of notes is much more limited, 
 kick pedal usage is rare, and drum fills are eased back quite a bit.  

  Speaking of fills, one really cool thing about the drum portion of the game is that it allows for 
 some improvisation. The way the drums handle overdrive is to give you some blocked-out sections 
 where you can just bust out any kind of drum fill you want. The pads act as a snare, two tom-toms, 
 and a crash cymbal. Go nuts, but just be sure you hit the last crash cymbal note at the end of 
 the fill, at which point you will engage overdrive.  

  If there is any issue to be taken with the game's hardware, it's its reliability. For instance, 
 one of our pre-release kick pedals from the drum kit, which is made up of a somewhat thin piece 
 of plastic hooked into a spring underneath it, actually snapped in half during a particularly heated 
 rendition of The Who's "Won't Get Fooled Again." The other pedals we used for testing held up despite 
 some extreme thrashing, but all the same, our suggestion is that if you've got a Mr. Heavyfoot 
 in your band, tell them to go shoeless and ease up on the pedal slammage a smidge. Another issue 
 is the USB microphone. One of our retail boxes came with a broken mic that cut in and out and wouldn't 
 register our vocals properly. Any supported USB headset mic will apparently work in a pinch on 
 the PS3, and the standard Xbox 360 headset works on there as well, but regardless, that's still 
 a concerning issue. At least EA seems to be aware of potential hardware issues, as a big flyer 
 inside the box explains the 60 day hardware warranty that comes with the game and directs you to 
 an EA Web site. You might want to keep that URL handy if you run into any issues.  

  Those are all the technicals of the instrumental gameplay, but none of that quite emphasizes how 
 excellent the game is at emulating the act of band play. By themselves, each instrument is basically 
 fun, but when you get four people together playing at once, something spectacular emerges. Part 
 of it is the way in which scoring has been designed for cooperative play. Overdrive can be turned 
 on by anyone, but the more people you have in overdrive at once, the higher the score bonuses. 
 By the same token, if one person in your band fails out of a song, another can simply engage overdrive 
 (provided enough is stored up at that point) and come to the rescue, bringing the player back into 
 the fold. But it goes beyond even the scoring mechanics. There's just something intangibly brilliant 
 about the way having everyone play together  feels . For instance, because the drums emulate the 
 real-life instrument so closely, having a good drummer is paramount for success. If your drummer 
 gets off beat, it can badly screw everyone up. Along the same lines, when your drummer is in a 
 solid groove and the rest of the band is able to lock into that groove, the feeling that you're 
 actually performing a song as opposed to simulating one is palpable, and it is quite the exhilarating 
 feeling.  

           The hardware the game comes with is all fun to play with, though there are some reliability 
 concerns.      

  The game's song list goes a long way toward making that multiplayer even more enjoyable. Though 
 the game includes only 45 licensed songs (along with 13 bonus tracks from lesser-known bands) , 
 many of these 45 are big-name tracks that are immediately recognizable and span multiple rock genres. 
 Alternative rock fans will find such '90s delights as Weezer's "Say It Ain't So," Smashing Pumpkins' 
 "Cherub Rock," and Nirvana's "In Bloom." Modern rockers will find The Killers' "When You Were Young," 
 Foo Fighters' "Learn to Fly," and Yeah Yeah Yeahs' "Maps." Classic rock fans will delight in being 
 able to rock their way through Black Sabbath's "Paranoid," The Rolling Stones' "Gimme Shelter," 
 and KISS's "Detroit Rock City." Other, less specifically denominational yet altogether awesome 
 songs include The Ramones' "Blitzkrieg Bop," Rush's "Tom Sawyer," and Metallica's "Enter Sandman." 

  The vast majority of these songs are original tracks from the artists, with only a few covers scattered 
 throughout the tracklist. Only a few of the covers really stick out much. The Geddy Lee on "Tom 
 Sawyer" is a bit overblown, and the singer of Mountain's "Mississippi Queen" is a bit odd sounding 
 as well. But by and large, the covers blend in nicely, and whoever did the vocals for Steven Tyler 
 and Bruce Dickinson on the Aerosmith and Iron Maiden songs respectively deserve some kind of vocalist 
 soundalike merit badge.     

   

  The only real problem with the tracklist is that some of the songs aren't the kind of immediately 
 recognizable stuff you would expect in a game that's all about a bunch of people getting together 
 and making elaborate band karaoke. Quick, off the top of your head, immediately think up the melody 
 to The Police's "Next to You," or Molly Hatchet's "Flirtin' With Disaster." None of these songs 
 are unpleasant to play or anything, but they don't quite fit into the scheme of songs anyone can 
 just pick up and rock to, especially on vocals. Heck, just about anyone can probably whine their 
 way through "Cherub Rock" or snarl through "Enter Sandman" on the lower difficulty levels. But 
 Aerosmith's "Train Kept a Rollin'"? Maybe not so much, but perhaps that just depends on you and 
 your friends' personal tastes in music.  

  Clearly Rock Band's focus and ultimate strength is as a multiplayer game, specifically a cooperative 
 one. This is also evidenced by the game's somewhat less captivating single-player element, at least 
 compared with its multiplayer game. You can play solo in quick play, or in one of the three solo 
 career modes, one for guitar, one for vocals, and one for drums. These all follow the basic formula 
 laid down by Guitar Hero, with tiers that unlock in order of increasing difficulty. One nice thing 
 is that each instrument's career offers a totally different track order, scaled to the difficulty 
 for that specific instrument. The other cool thing is the fact that you can customize your own 
 rocker for each instrument. You start out with some basic edits, and then as you go, the cash you 
 earn in the career mode lets you buy all sorts of wicked rock garb, tattoos, haircuts, and the 
 like. But as far as the progression of the career itself is concerned, it's pretty boilerplate. 
 Nothing of note really happens during the course of the career, and it ultimately lacks the dynamism 
 of the band world tour mode.  

           The character customization element is actually pretty awesome.      

  Band world 
 tour is the co-op career mode. Two to four players can create their own rockers and start rocking 
 right away, and band members can jump in or drop out at any time, so long as the profile of the 
 band founder is always signed in and playing. The mode is essentially a much more fleshed-out version 
 of the same sort of tiered career mode as the solo tour. You start out as a nobody band, playing 
 the teensiest club in your hometown. As you play gigs and perform well, you'll earn more fans, 
 which helps propel your band ever forward toward rock stardom. You also earn stars in each gig, 
 and the more stars you collect, the more gigs that will unlock in each available city.  

  This mode is, in a word, addictive. Working to gather as many fans and stars as you can becomes 
 almost compulsive after a while. If you've got friends with you willing to stick it out, you could 
 potentially lose a lot of hours of your life touring the world. Another thing that makes band world 
 tour so cool is the presentation of it all. As you grow your fan base, you'll earn the opportunity 
 to get a crappy van, then a tour bus, and even a jet. You'll have the chance to win another band's 
 roadies, hire a sound guy, get signed to a label, and eventually work your way into the hall of 
 fame. It's an awesome experience, to be sure.  

  The mode itself never actually ends, letting you continue to earn fans and keep playing gigs, though 
 after a while you will forced into the higher difficulty settings, which potentially spells trouble 
 if you start running into songs you don't really know yet, and you eventually start to run into 
 a fair amount of song repetition, especially if you haven't already unlocked all the game's songs 
 in the solo tour. Starting out fresh guarantees you'll be playing a lot of the same songs again 
 and again from the very beginning. If you unlock everything in solo, the tour opens up a great 
 deal. While 58 songs might seem like a lot to pick from, you're still going to end up repeating 
 songs a fair amount, especially when you do the special challenges, which automatically pick random 
 songs for you.  

  It is perhaps a good thing, then, that Rock Band is supported with lots of downloadable content. 
 Several song packs (including artist packs for bands like Queens of the Stone Age and Metallica) , 
 single-song downloads, and full-album downloads (The Who's "Who's Next" will be the first) have 
 been announced thus far. Pricing on these songs is slightly cheaper than the Guitar Hero song packs, 
 but not so much cheaper that you won't notice the hurt on your wallet if you start splurging for 
 every song that comes along. Still, the idea of getting regular downloadable content is great (Harmonix 
 and MTV are apparently going to start out by releasing songs on a weekly schedule) , and the full-album 
 download idea is awesome. Even better, any song you download makes its way into the rotation in 
 the band world tour, which should alleviate some of the repetition over the long haul.  

  The one truly unfortunate thing about the band world tour mode is that it isn't online. That might 
 be a dicey prospect for those without regularly available friends with a similar love of music 
 games. The good news is that there is an online co-op quick play option, so if you and your buddies 
 just want to get together and play single songs as a band for fun and high scores, you can. The 
 online also includes competitive options, such as a basic score duel (same instrument, same difficulty, 
 play the entire song) and a tug-of-war mode (same instrument, any difficulty level, trade off sections 
 of the song, try to win the crowd over to your side by performing the best) . These modes are about 
 as enjoyable as Guitar Hero III's online component, so if you dug that stuff, you'll definitely 
 dig this. The online modes also performed well across the board, with no noticeable lag while playing. 

  Perhaps one of the best things about Rock Band is its presentation. The in-game visuals are of 
 very high quality, with great character modeling, top-notch animation work on each musician, and 
 lots of neat lighting and visual effects during the course of the performance. And the best thing 
 about all of that? None of it causes the game to slow down whatsoever. The note charts stay steady 
 no matter how much craziness is going on in the background. If there's any flaw to be found in 
 the visuals at all, it's that the notes on the note charts are a little on the small side. It's 
 not a big deal in one- or two-player play, but when you have both guitars and drums going at once, 
 it can sometimes be tough to make out whether you've hit a note or not. Also, if you're trying 
 to figure out which version of the game to get, visuals won't make much difference. Both the Xbox 
 360 and PS3 versions of the game look pretty much identical to one another.  

           Seriously, if you're able to get good at hard and expert drumming in this game, and you 
 still can't play a solid 4/4 rock beat on a real drum kit, seek professional help.      

  The presentational quality goes well beyond the visuals. Everything about Rock Band just feels 
 authentic. It's the little details, like how some arenas will put your band's name in big lights 
 behind you on stage, or how when you're performing well the crowd will start singing along with 
 the vocalist. Awesome stuff. Heck, even the game's loading screens are cool, offering up some neat 
 band trivia, as well as dynamically generated band photos featuring your created musicians in a 
 variety of delightfully exaggerated rock poses.  

  All told, Rock Band turns in an absolutely stellar performance. And much like any real band worth 
 its salt, it's not just because of one or two things that it does well while the rest fall by the 
 wayside. Each individual component of the game is good on its own, but it's when you put those 
 things together into a collective whole that the game truly shines. Ultimately, the $170 investment 
 is bound to be a sticking point for some, especially those who don't have readily available friends 
 who can come over and rock whenever the itch needs to be scratched. But even with that caveat in 
 mind, Rock Band is easily one of the most ambitious music games ever produced, and that it is so 
 successful in its ambition makes it something really special.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (119 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AudioPrison
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 2:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is really one of the best i've ever played - mabey because I just love music so much 
 but even if your not a music fan it is still an enjoyable game: the songs are fun to play as well 
 as the intsruments, it's great to play with friends and family or by yourself, and winning online 
 battles always give you the satisfaction of knowing that even if you suck at playing a real insrtument 
 you can still rock on a pretend one. Another good feature of the game is being able to create your 
 very own rockstar; from his/her name, to clothing/hair styles, to their onstage personality - you 
 can be whoever you want to be.
  Although... if your not one for noise then consider leaving out the purchase of the drum kit.
 
  If you like the sound of this game but havn't yet bought it I would wait for the release of Rockband2. 
 The new features are something worth waiting for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2009 11:59 am PT
Review:  Rock Band was, originally when it was released, known as a cheap rip-off of Guitar Hero. You can 
 play guitar, bass, vocals, and drums. It has a very bad song selection, and, if you play guitar 
 hero, is very bad to get into. But, in it's own right, it is still a fairly fun party game with 
 a large choice in instruments.
  
  The Good:
  -4 different instruments to choose from
  -Fun world tour mode
  -Good character creation
  -Exceptional graphics
  
  The Bad:
  -Vry 
 bad song choice, not as many hardcore rock songs as guitar hero
  -Drums are unreliable
  -Hard to get into if you play guitar hero often
  
  Overall, Rock Band is a fun rythm game, 
 but it has a bad soundtrack and unreliable drum intruments. I would buy it if you prefer big party 
 games, but Guitar Hero has a much better song list, seriously. 
  
  Overall, 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orzornn
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2009 12:41 pm PT
Review:  Harmonix the creator of guitar hero left after GH2 was made after being bought by MTV games, resulting 
 in the best party game ever... ROCK BAND!
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  The gameplay in this game is amazing and its fun for everyone who has played Guitar Hero before. 
 Playing with friends has never been so much fun and playing over the internet is a bonus! The game 
 has 4 difficulty levels Easy, Medium, Hard, and Expert. Each difficulty higher up the fret board scrolls 
 faster at you along with more nots being placed on the chart to match the song more accuratly.
 
  
  Graphics 8.7/10
  Well obviously Rock Band wasn't meant to look like Crysis or Fall out 3 by any means but it doesn't 
 look bad enough you don't want to look at it. 
  
  Hardware 9/10
  The addition of Drums a Microphone were a step up for Harmonix and they pulled it off in a great 
 way! Although when the game first came out the drums had some issue's but now it has been mostly 
 corrected. 
  
  Sound 10/10
  Most of the songs are master recordings and are all great songs with the exception of a few and 
 also depending on what type of music you like... Even a metal head will like most of the songs 
 on this game because its so much fun!
  
  Overall 9.5/10
  Rock Band is a great game to have for party's and to play alone if your a drummer, but its more 
 enjoyable with friends by far and is worth every dollar you spend on it. Don't forget about new 
 DLC every week! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iluvgames32
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 4, 2009 4:02 pm PT
Review:  OK, let's get someting out of the way first. This game. Is. AWESOME!!! OK, let's actually review.
 
  
  Gameplay: Rock out to 54 of some of the greastest rock songs of all time. Oh, let's not forget 
 the downloadable songs coming out every week. You can play with up to 4 friends at once, which 
 is great. The character creator is pretty good, but isn't detailed enough. The 100+ purchasable 
 clothes are great a great addition, but I wish you could mix and match stuff better. I also wish 
 the game was a bit harder. 
  Graphics: OK, the graphics aren't very next gen-y. There very good, but aren't great for a next-gen 
 console. The lighting effects, however, are great.
  Hardware: I like the hardware a lot better than Guitar Hero. The guitar is larger, which feels 
 better the the Guitar Hero guitars, especially the X-plorer guitar controller. The drums are prettty 
 good, but the drumheads are too loud, and the kick pedal is a little flimsy. The mic is excellent.
 
  Closing Word: I believe Guitar Hero was just the beginning. Rock Band excells to a whole new level. 
 If you liked Guitar Hero, get this game. It's worth the steep tag.
  10/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfly360
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 23, 2009 6:19 pm PT
Review:  this game is just plain awesome. 
  
  the instruments are kind of flawed. this might just be my guitar but i am a lefty when i play this 
 and i upstrum. when i do this it double strums. i had to teach myself how to play right handed 
 so i could play but on some songs where you have to strum up and down fast to hit notes the double 
 strum doesn't help for some reason and i can't keep a combo. but i'm going to send it back to get 
 a new one whenever. also the foot pedal looks like it was designed to make you by the reinforced 
 ones off the internet. i know its kind of thick plastic but come on its meant to be stomped on! 
 also it might just be me but it sounds like the drums are being hit with more force than you are 
 actually hitting them with.
  
  the setlist is great. (with the exception of should i stay or should i go, suffragette city, and 
 the weird sounding but fun to play cover of run to the hills.) it has don't fear the reaper, in 
 bloom, timmy and the lords of the underworld, enter sandman, blitzkrieg bop, won't get fooled again, 
 black hole sun, and many more.
  
  you can use a guitar hero guitar. (take that!) the drums can also be used with guitar hero world 
 tour. (take that too!)
  
  so overall this game is amazing. especially when you are having a party.
  
  (no, i don't hate 
 guitar hero) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  It doesn't matter who you are, this game rocks. Play different songs or play guitar lead/bass, 
 drums, or be a singer. The only reason its 10 hours or less is becuase my friend has it, not me. 
 :p
  
  Concept: Play any instrument and rock the world with up to 3 more buddies, buy stuff and all that 
 stuff we people love. Also create a character
  
  Graphics
  Pretty good but don't let the graphics get you, All the other stuff weighs it down. The graphics 
 are actually pretty good.
  
  Gameplay
  Its easy to control but the drums sometimes get annoying with hitting the things. Guitar is super 
 easy to play with and microphone is easy, you can sing poop pa poop poopy poop pooooooooooooooo 
 yeah! And stuff.
  
  Buy it and love it This game is awesome for family and annoying broothers or sisters who won't 
 leave you alone
  
  1 bass, guitar, singer, and drummer in each band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 9:46 pm PT
Review:  A great addition to anyone's game library, Rock Band offers some of the greatest party gameplay 
 ever introduced to the console gaming population. This game brings everything Guitar Hero has brought 
 for years, but perfects it. The inclusion of the drums and microphone make this game fun for 4 
 players. I loved the feel and look of the game, much sleeker and easier to play than Guitar Hero. 
 For the completionist, there is an expert level to perfect, but could only manage the hard setting. 
 The progression of difficulty through each level setting was thrilling, the education and the acquisition 
 of the skills to play the harder songs on the harder levels allows for growth and full completion. 
 I didn't much like the track list and I hope they can improve upon that in Rock Band 2. I grew 
 to loathe some of the songs though, not because of the note pattern but because of the simple annoyance 
 of the song playing. But it doesn't hurt the overall game. Very fluid and very enjoyable it simply 
 plain old fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_omid1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band was probably the best music game in 2007-2008. Rock Band seemed to beat Guitar Hero because 
 the Rock Band game has drums and microphone which Guitar Hero doesn't have! Well in the new Guitar 
 Hero they actually made drums and microphones for Guitar Hero! Anyway Rock Band2 is also out now. 
 So it's a really good game because like I liked to play drums but i didn't have one because i didn't 
 know how to play with a drum, but it was fun while I was hitting the pads when the notes come! 
 You can play online with your friends, or invite your friends to your house and make a band! In 
 the Rock Band2 you can challenge other bands, that's pretty good! 
  Rock Band has probably dozens of all-time classics songs that you can play with your drums or guitar 
 or you can sing it!
  Well anyway like always I recommend you to play it! Have Fun! PCE
  Some of the songs:
  Don't Fear The Reaper- Blue Oyster Cult
  Wated Dead Or Alive- Bon Jovi
 
  Foreplay/Long Time- Boston
  Suffragette- David Bowie
  Should I Stay Or Should I Go- The Clash
  Enter Sandman- Metallica
  Orange Crush- R. E. M. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seannyboy357
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  Here is a review on Rock Band for the PS3
  
  Graphics- Awesome graphics, better than Guitar Hero, but they do make all of the charecters look 
 anorexic (and for you people who are troubled by that word, it means skinny and that they dont 
 eat ECT.) I would give the graphics portion a 9.5 out of ten
  
  Controls- There are 4 possible band positions, bass, drummer, lead guitar and singer, It has pretty 
 basic controls, there is a whammy bar, frets, lower frets (solo) and an on off switch on the front/back. 
 The drums have four main drums and a pedal to keep the beat, and your ordinary microphone, but 
 i would warn you to be very easy on the mic. becasue it gets all screwed up if you drop it or try 
 and like eat it. 
  
  Online- the online is okay and deservs an 8.5, because it doesnt do much for your status as a band 
 but it does get some practice in, and sometimes people can kick you out if your not the leader, 
 or they'll leave and you'll have to wait.
  
  All together it's a great game, it has awesome multiplayer and is a lot of fun. So, if your looking 
 to buya game that has to do woth music then i would suggest Rock Band. Hope you enjoy my review.
 
  
  Seannyboy357 8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band had the potential to be great. However, bad instruments design and gameplay that was 
 clearly ripped rigth from Guitar Hero hurt the game a lot. The only reason I give it an 8.5 and 
 not a 9.0 is because I do not approve of copiers.
  
  The "Good"
  
  -Awesome sountrack!
  -Creative character customization options.
  -The first drums in any videogame!
 
  -Challenging gameplay for experienced players.
  -Cool looking guitar
  -The ending and solo bonuses are great additions to the traditional formula.
  -Great multiplayer 
 options!
  -Awesome graphics!
  -You can use the Guitar Hero guitar!
  
  The "Bad"
  
  -Terrible guitar design.
  -The drums can get kind of loud and the bass pedal get's tiring after 
 a while.
  -No instrument customization.
  -No hyperspeed : (
  -Gameplay completely ripped from Guirar Hero (even the same colors!)
  -Only a few tweaks added 
 to the Guitar Hero formula. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wadopotato79
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Rock Band since January and I think I enjoy it even more now than when it came 
 out. Everyone has a little wannabe rockstar in them and this is the perfect outlet.
  
  I will start with the bad... which is a short list. First, no online Band World Tour. Not everyone 
 has friends that share their interest in playing plastic instruments. Second, no bass solo tour. 
 Lastly, with the amount of DLC available now, the song choice list interface is terrible. With 
 over 300 songs, it can be very slow and cumbersome to get around. On the bright side, all of these 
 issues are being addressed on RB2. Thank you Harmonix.
  
  The positive aspects of this game are too numerous to list them all, but I will hit a handful of 
 the biggies. It has an amazing song list and Harmonix seems to out-do themselves over and over 
 again. Sure, there are a few off-weeks in my opinion, but everyone has their own taste in music. 
 Harmonix cannot please everyone week-in, week-out. 
  
  There is a great breakdown in difficulty so someone who has never played any rhythm game can pick 
 up a mic, sticks or a guitar and play with someone who has logged many, many hours. Some argue 
 that the jumps from one level to the next can be too drastic. I am not one of those people. One 
 has to expect a little pain when jumping up a level in difficulty. Otherwise, there would not be 
 difficulty settings.
  
  The online aspect of the game, though lacking BWT, is fantastic. Before this game, I did little 
 or no online gaming. This has changed dramatically. My friends list is full of fellow rockband-ers 
 and if nobody happens to be playing at the moment, I know that bandmates are just a "Find Friends" 
 away in band quickplay.
  
  The replayability of it is phenomenal... tired of playing drums? Play guitar. Tired of playing guitar? 
 Try vocals. Tired of vocals? Bass guitar is just a dongle plug-in away. Most games I have played 
 in the past are good for a few months, maybe more. After that, I am taking them back to the game 
 store for credit to get a new one. I have been playing Rock Band for 10 months now and have never 
 once grown tired of it. Weekly DLC releases and 4 different instruments keep this game fresh.
 
  
  All in all, this is the best game I have every played. This is a bold statement, but it is 100% 
 true. Never before have I played a game that is as much fun to play alone as it is with friends. 
 The pluses far outweigh the short list of cons with this game. That being said I have given it 
 a 9/10 since there is room for improvement... hoping for that 10/10 for Rock Band 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cubano7649
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  I really like this game it is a great starter game for the PS3, if you buy this game you'll be 
 entertained for weeks. However you can only fully enjoy the game if you play with friends. I mean 
 you can try and multi-play but its more geared to group play. It gets alittle confusing when your 
 trying to connect the different musical instruments especially if you have one of the newer PS3 
 versions that only comes with 2 USB adapters. If you buy the game deffinetly buy a extra guitar 
 so 4 people can play. One singer one Guitar one Bass and one drum. Confusing when you realize that 
 guitar and bass are kinda the same thing. I would wait till ROCK BAND 2 comes out since there are 
 suppose to be more songs on that version also I heard the instruments that you use in ROCK BAND 
 1 do not work with ROCK BAND 2. So wait just afew more weeks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konkero
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 7, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Envy is such a powerful word but once you are strumming the guitar with endless notes and nailing 
 them it seems as if you are a real guitarist. I adore this game and its functions. Even though 
 I constantly play this game you still have the greatest amount of skills to win. This game lets 
 you explore your inner rock. If you like playing the guitar, drums, microphone on easy, medium, 
 hard, or expert expect to play like you mean it. This game is great for you to bring your friends 
 home and challenge them to a duel or rock your own band in endless tours. Creating a band is great. 
 To me loosing fans is the worse and your band members probably hate you for that but regain that 
 confidence and win backs those fans. I can't even wait for Rock Band Two. Ignore your friends and 
 play by your self. Try to obtain the special instruments after finishing a tour. Extend those rock 
 demons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy2v2
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  This game is very fun. But just as a warning to anyone that reads this make sure you have another 
 to play when you're finished with this game. The game can get boring after a while especially if 
 you don't have online or friends. ha ha. The drums were awesome except for one they were loud as 
 for noise making for two the foot pedal would break fairly easy if you hit too hard. The guitar 
 for Rock Band was insane. Except... yes there is always a downfall of something... it was the buttons 
 that made that annoying click, click, click, etc... Also they made the strum bar a piece of crap, 
 yes I have the balls to say it, and it's true. I hope that the strum bar for Rock Band 2 is better 
 than the first one. The difficulty of this game is just right because it's not to easy but it's 
 not insane like Dragonforce. I also like the rectangles instead of the circles during the game 
 play. Thanks Rock Band. I look forward to your next great creation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matteocurmi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:09 pm PT
Review:  This is the kind of game that makes you want to keep moving forward and forward until you start 
 showing off your skills on your webs. This game to me kept me busy whenever I was bored , and believe 
 me, it manages to kill time . You really want to buy this game if you have competition at home 
 . I spent weeks making my way to expert to skip my sister but still havent!!! She's like "I got 
 'Enter Sandman' Expert 99%" and I'm like "Who hasnt!" and I go to prove it and it.... it...98% !!!!!!!! 
 It's like "I have to beat her I have to!!!!!"
  
  All I want to say is that it will keep you busy. ( Too bad there aint a 1000 hours or more option! 
 )
  
  Ya and by the way, if you plannin to buy rock band in future you may want to wait for Guitar Hero 
 : World Tour
  and compare them both.
  
  Three Words : Pure Party Rocker
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lothar6961
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  After purchasing my PS3 I flailed about a bit with my wife over the whole gaming idea. She thought 
 it was my way of ignoring her and I thought she needed to jump in and try it. Problem solved with 
 Rock Band! She plays more than I do!. Multiplayer games are not too abundant for this system yet, 
 but Rock Band has allowed my whole family to play together and have great fun. Even got my friends 
 and neighbors coming by to play. Never have had a game that was quite so socially engaging. Thanks 
 Harmonix. Now my wife enjoys playing video games and is off my back about the time I spend on Oblivion.
 
  The solo tour is fun for one on one challenges, the band tour is challenging in as much as we 
 have yet to get on the leader board in any incarnation. 
  The only issue I have is that they made the drums so much fun to play. That is usually the argument 
 around my house. "I wanna play the drums!" "No it's my turn!"
  Harmonix hit a grand slam with this one. I'll buy the next one when it drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mitch1251
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 19, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Game info: Rock Band is a music video game developed by Harmonix Music Systems, published by MTV 
 Games, and distributed by EA Distribution. The PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions were released 
 in the United States on November 20, 2007, [2] while the PlayStation 2 version was released in the 
 U. S. on December 18, 2007 [5] and the Wii version was released on June 22, 2008. [6] The game was 
 released in Canada for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 on December 22, 2007 and for the PlayStation 
 2 on January 2, 2008. It was released in parts of Europe as a timed exclusive on Xbox 360 on May 
 23, 2008.
  
  Rock Band allows players to perform in virtual bands by providing up to four players with the ability 
 to play three different peripherals modeled after music instruments (a guitar peripheral for lead 
 guitar and bass guitar gameplay, a drum peripheral, and a microphone) . These peripherals are used 
 to simulate the playing of rock music by hitting scrolling notes on-screen. Players using the Xbox 
 360 and PlayStation 3 consoles can interact through both online and offline multiplayer capabilities. 
 In addition to the 58 core songs included on the game disc, hundreds of downloadable songs are 
 being released for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions. [8]
  
  At launch, the game software was made available in a bundle that packaged it together with the 
 instrument peripherals, as well as for purchase separately. Individual instrument peripherals were 
 released at a later date. The game has received widespread critical acclaim [9] and has sold over 
 3 million bundled units over all platforms. [10] Players have also downloaded over 15 million songs 
 since Rock Band's release. [11] The game's success has prompted the development of a sequel, Rock 
 Band 2, due to be released in September 2008.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flo17602
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  Wow! This game has it all! Guitar, drum, and a microphone comes into play! unlike games, like pappa 
 rappa the rapper, that uses the controller, rock band uses make believe instruments. words of songs 
 passes through the screen. You pick what ever song you wanna pick 2 play the game. The game is 
 incredible and intense. Even my girl love the game and she hates video games. Keeping up with the 
 beats was hard at first but then you get into the rhythm. The pace on every song is different which 
 makes it harder to get in the rhythm. Even my 3 year old daughter love playing it and she don't 
 even now what she is doing lol! Upset of this game is that it only comes with the guitar. You need 
 to buy the drum and microphone separate. Playing with other people makes it more fun. either verses 
 each other or team ups as a band. Get the game and play it, I guarantee you gonna love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dalamplighter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is simply amazing. It has great graphics, character customization, songs, and gameplay. 
 Graphics are much better than Guitar Hero's, the main other game you'd be thinking of buying, and 
 the character customization is on par with an RPG, and has even more clothing choices. The songs 
 are great, even if you've never heard of them, which is probably true, they will shortly become 
 some of your favorite songs. And then there's the gameplay. Instead of just ONE instrument, you 
 can do THREE. All of the instruments (drums, vocal, and of course guitar) all have just as good 
 gameplay if not better, than Guitar Hero's. The solo tour is on par with Guitar Hero's, but the 
 real fun begins when other people play. In party mode, you can play a highly addictive World Tour 
 mode, which just DESTROYS Guitar Hero's tour mode. The online mode is about the same as Guitar 
 Hero's. With about 50 songs, and even more downloadable content, you will be playing for a very 
 long time.
  
  Rundown:
  Graphics 9/10
  Characters 10/10
  Songs 7/10
  Gameplay 10/10
  Online: 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilligan841
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  I have played the guitar and the bass guitar for years, but never played the drum. I bought Rock 
 Band for the drum and found this game being awesome and so funny. I play it as soon as I have a 
 few minutes to spend in front of me. I am 46 and a big '70 Rock fan and was a little sceptic at 
 first about the songs list included in the game. After all, I deal pretty well with them considering 
 I am concentrated in my skill instead of the songs; I learned to appreciate most of them after 
 practicing them. I read reviews saying that the hardware is a problem sometimes, but found that 
 all the hardware components are strong built for a game and the price paid. Of course, one must 
 not use them hardly if he wants to keep them in good order. Some reviews say that this game is 
 expensive, but found it is absolutely worthy for the price paid, considering we get the game, a 
 microphone, a guitar and a set of drums which are not "cheapos" at all. In the end, I found myself 
 being a very bad singer and that Guitar Hero is a better game when using the guitar (a matter of 
 the songs list) . 10 out of 10 considering I bought it for the drum. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dulichild
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The game Rock Band is a great game in general. Just recently it won an award for Best Soundtrack 
 on G4's G-phoria 2008. Also in E3 2007 Rock Band was voted Best of the Show, Best Hardware, Best 
 Social Game, and Best Stage Demo by video game critics. Rock Band is an awesome multiplayer game 
 for parties or when you are looking for a challenge. The guitar is slightly different than the 
 guitar hero guitar. The difficulties are a tad more harder than what you are used to playing as 
 a difficulty on Guitar Hero. The Microphone is kind of the same compared to PS2's Sing Star series. 
 Verbal notes are easily hit from easy to hard, but on expert mode it's almost like you are expected 
 to sing in similiar styles of the singer of the band. The drums has an easy setup, four top toms 
 and a bass pedal. Noobies should use easy and medium. Advanced players most likely use hard and 
 sometimes expert. Expert is really challenging and tiring for advanced players even. Real drummers 
 are the only players who really can do good on expert. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a great game, it has over 50 songs, you can choose between the drums, guitar or mic 
 peripherals which are all fun in their own right, but when you bring all these elements together 
 and make a band, that's where all the fun begins. The Band World Tour is excellent because you 
 and your friends can have a great time playing some of rock's best songs, and you can also go online 
 and play bands from across the globe which is always good. Also the Solo Tours aren't bad either, 
 so if you just can't find anyone to make a band with the game is still a great time to play with 
 every instrument and playing through the different difficulties to find which one best suits your 
 ability is also great. Rock Band is a very good rhythm game with lots of depth in the single player 
 mode but the multiplayer is where this game truly shines. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B_man0299
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 28, 2008 3:31 pm PT
Review:  at first glance this game looks like something that is alot like guitar hero. but in fact this 
 a whole different game, i doesn't look cartooney loke guitar hero. this not a game, it's an experience.
 
  
  graphics- like i said above this isn't cartooney looking like guitar hero, andyou don't have a 
 singer with a mouth big enough to smuggle fireworks in from across the border. the people look 
 way better, the drummers actually look like they are drumming, not just moving their arms without 
 moving their elbows.
  overall 9.5/10 for graphics
  
  soundtrack- great songs, alot of them are the songs i was hoping to get on gh3, but didn't. the 
 songs are perfect just as they are, i can't wait to see whats gonna be on rock band 2 (i do know 
 about 10 songs on the new list)
  overall 9.0/10 for soundtrack
  
  instruments- The instruments are good, but could have been better. the fret buttons click loudly, 
 and the strum bar doesn't click (i like the clicking strum bar on the gh3 controller) . The drums 
 have a plastic edge that if you hit it makes an annoying noise.
  overall 8.5/10 for instuments 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemBoys46290
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2008 5:16 am PT
Review:  this game took everthing they did from guitar hero and improved upon it. rock band has a great 
 track list and the downloadable content is excellent. the hardware stood up to the test of my pounding 
 and strumming so i think there built fine while others may not think so, the drums are a little 
 loud when ur beatin on them but u can just turn the tv up and poof all u really hear is the music 
 so for me its not really an issue, although i did take the plastic rings around the drums off so 
 it made them a tad quieter. definitly recommend this game to any body thats a fan of guitar hero 
 like i am. but personally i like this game better. online play could have been better as in u could 
 battle against other bands instead of just forming an online band but thats ok it was the first 
 step into the unknown and they cant always be perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RachetandClank
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  ::::Good::::
  - Non gamers and hard core alike can love this game
  - Instruments are familiar and fun to use
  - Graphics are very good
  - Player creator is nice
 
  - Game modes and online play are solid
  - Song list is very entertaining
  - One of or the best multiplayer-party game
  - Overall revolutionary and very fun gaming expericence
 
  
  ::::Bad::::
  - $170 is a bit expensive
  - Not everyone has played this game
  
  Rock Band is a game that almost anyone can jump into. Whether you are a non gamer or hardcore gamer, 
 both can love this game.
  
  In case you dont already know, there are 3 different instrument types.
  First, there is the familiar 
 guitar (and bass) , and anyone who has played guitar hero knows what there getting themselves into. 
 But its a bit different. The first thing that will come to your mind when you pick up the guitar 
 is "Where is the clicking????" Well, the strum bar doesn't click anymore, and there is the additional 
 solo buttons at the bottom of the neck and the effects switch that add new cool features to the 
 guitar.
  
  Next is the vocals. Pretty self explanatory, all you do is just sing into the mic when the words 
 come up and tap the mic when prompted. Just like your basic karioke game.
  
  And last but definity not least, the instrument that everyone wants to get their hands on is the 
 drums set. There are 4 pads and a bass pedal, and you just hit them when the notes come up. This 
 is the easiest instrument for beginners, but the hardest for experts. Once you get up to the hard 
 and expert difficulty levels, you feel like you are accually playing the drums (you probably can 
 too!) .
  
  Some other things to point out are that the graphic are solid, the player creator is awsome, and 
 the many different modes and online play is really fun.
  
  But probably the most important thing is the songs in the game. Only one word to describe them... fantastic. 
 There are maybe 2 song that shouldn't be in there, but that's it! And all the songs and full albums 
 that you can download make the song list huge and expanding every week!
  
  Overall, Rock Band has to be one of or the best party game ever. It is such a good experience to 
 have four of your friends rockin out at the same time while the rest of the people sing "should 
 i stay or should i go." The game is at its best when the full band is there. It is too bad that 
 it had to be so expensive, $170 for a drums set, guitar, mic, and game. But if you can find the 
 money to buy this game, every penny will be paid back in fun.
  
  Who ever is responsible for making this game... bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero? No. Rockband. 
  I first played Rockband at my cousins house, and my aunt & uncle were completely addicted so it 
 was a few hours before I got my hands on it.
  and when I did, IT WAS AMAZING! 
  first off, it plays like guitar hero, but its way harder! 
  and unlike guitar hero, you can play 
 it with 2 guitars! infact, you can play the drums, and you can sing. you can create you're own 
 rockband! (no sh1t.)
  plus you can create you're own character. (I personally thought my cousins character look stupid.) 
 
  but for all this equiptment it's very costly. I recently bought mine from my cousin for about $200. 
 (I got ripped.) 
  It had a pretty good soundtrack, but I would like if in later versions they put more hard rock 
 songs like Godsmack or something.
  
  So overall my rating is 9.5. why? 
  
  graphics 9/10
  value 10/10 
  sound 20/10
  story N/A
  gameplay 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe603
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:52 pm PT
Review:  This is my second fake guitar game (my first was Guitar Hero 3) . There isn't a comparison... Rock 
 band is not only a better game, but it's really 3 games in one. Since I'm an audio visual guy, 
 I'll start with that. The game plays on 720p, but if you're like me and have an old TV that only 
 does 1080i, it will be 420p. I really wish developers would have all resolutions for these games... But, 
 for the most part, it doesn't impact playing. The sound is superb! With dolby digital 5.1 it really 
 sounds fantastic. The effects of the crowd cheering when you play well is a great idea! My subwoofer 
 gets a workout every time I play... especially when a song is finished.
  
  Next, the gameplay. The game mechanics are great! The game allows for decent auto calibration for 
 the type of TV you have. Once you get used to the engagement point for strumming/hitting the drum 
 pads, the game really gets fun. On-line play is one of the best of not only any fake guitar game, 
 but any game for that matter. 
  
  The instruments that come bundled with the game include a wireless fender strat guitar, a four 
 pad with foot pedal drum kit and a microphone. All of the equipment is well made, with only a few 
 notable exceptions. The guitar design is great with the fret buttons using the entire board instead 
 of raised buttons. It also has "solo" buttons on the neck of the guitar that don't need to be strummed 
 during solo's. The strummer is a weak part of the guitar. It does not have any audible click when 
 you strum so the engagement is more difficult to master. Alternate strumming is also more difficult 
 because of this. Finally, the tilt sensor is garbage. 
  
  The drums a made from high quality plastic that will take a beating. The only weak item for the 
 drums is the pedal. On higher difficulties, you WILL break the thing. The only fix is to add brace 
 material (usually a metal add-on plate) . The pads themselves are decent, but very loud. A drum 
 "silencer pad" is recommended for band play. 
  
  Rock band is a near perfect game. With over 200 songs, 58 on disk and the rest down loadable content, 
 the game never gets old. The music store in-game allows you to preview new songs and check out 
 the difficulty for each instrument before you buy it. If you like fake guitar games, semi-real 
 drum simulators, and karaoke-style singing, rock band is your game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: banjo_kazooie33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 19, 2008 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band. Every wannabe rock star's dream. 
  
  Rock Band contains four crucial intruments (guitar, bass, microphone, drums) that together forms 
 a intensely addictive mulitplayer game. Rock Band is a higher class version of Guitar Hero. But 
 with vocals and drums. And while playing drums, you will improve your skill at drumming realisticly.
 
  
  A feature that will excite the parents of the household or anyone else that has to listen to the 
 Guitar Hero strum bar clicking repeatedly, will be relieved to know that the Rock Band strum bar 
 makes no noise whatsoever. But when changing fret buttons, it makes a small clicking sound until 
 worked in. But once the guitar is silenced, then come the drums. Which are loud as hell! Which 
 is why EA games came out with drum silencer pads where you simply stick them to your drums pads 
 and volia! Your drums are silent!
  
  There is one upsetting fact about the Rock Band equipment is that they are very faulty. Because 
 of the fautly equipment many purchases of drums were made after Rock Band had been released. Just 
 remember, they aren't real drums. So don't tharsh away on them, hit them gently or get ready to 
 pull out a load of cash to buy new ones. 
  
  Although Rock Band dissapoints many with a high price, the mutilplayer gameplay will be sure to 
 put a smile on your face. Players may argue that Rock Band fails to contain a storyline. But whoever 
 feels that is sadly mistaken. Rock Band's storyline is what real rock star's live/lived through 
 everyday. 
  
  1. Earn Money
  2. Earn Fans
  3. Gigs
  4. Tour Bus
  5. Purchase instruments.
  6. Establish your look.
  7. Touring
  8. Plane
  9. Earn more money.
 
  
  It's easy, or medium, or hard... or expert. This game does not have a difficulty. You get to choose 
 your difficulty. Making this game ever so much more fun. 
  
  Rock Band can be played either locally, or online. If playing locally, you will be playing with 
 gamers in the same room as you, using your instruments. But if you play online, you must wait for 
 the singer to join, wait for the guitar players and wait for the drummers. Which isn't worth the 
 wait. Because if you play online you are still playing alone at home. But unlike other online games, 
 you can play with a friend at your house online. 
  
  Another awsome feature that Rock Band consists of is there is a Rock Band store online, where you 
 can load money from your credit card and purchase songs and albums. With such songs as The Kill 
 (30 Seconds to Mars) , Move Along (the All-American Rejects) , I Fought the Law (The Clash) , and 
 Snow [Hey Oh] (Red Hot Chili Peppers) , loading money onto your PlayStation account is nearly irresistable. 
 And if you are refraining from buying songs because Rock Band 2 is coming out in nearly a couple 
 months, than don't. Becuase you can upload your purchased songs from Rock Band to Rock Band 2. 
 
  
  Rock Band is a severely addicting multiplayer game that should be tried by any gamer. Even the 
 players that dislike the rock genre should give Rock Band a try. Because odds are, you will enjoy 
 the game greatly. 
  
  So check out Rock Band and be sure to line up for Rock Band 2, coming out September 14th, 2008.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RBdrmmr02
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 1:59 am PT
Review:  I bought Rock Band about a month after it launched, for the Playstation 3. I bought the Special 
 Editon pack and i have to say it was quite expensive. Got it home, set up was fast, and easy. Once 
 i started playing it , it was nothing i had ever played before (except maybe the guitar, and micrphone, 
 but they had a slighty different take from their competitors) . It's starts getting addictive, and 
 i just kept playing, a good 6 hrs, on and off. The drums are the best of the bunch, though they 
 are the most faulty. Thats pretty much the only problem i have is the hardware. Like many others, 
 the complaint is the drum pedal. Everything else is great. Highly recommend to the music lover, aspiring 
 "rock stars", or to get together to start a "band" (multiplayer is what its moslty about) . To sum 
 it up ,great game ,single and multiplayer, faulty hardware. Would choose this over Guitar Hero any 
 day, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FunkyFlyChicken
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Let me start this review off by saying, first and foremost, I love most of Harmonix's past games, 
 starting with Frequency and Amplitude, moving into Guitar Hero 1 and 2 (Rocks the 80's I wasn't 
 that into, but that's ok) .
  
  Harmonix knows rhythm games. They know how to make note charts like no one else, in my opinion. 
 That's a huge plus for them. HOWEVER...
  
  Harmonix does not know hardware. Prior to their split from activision (for whatever reasons, however 
 it went down, it's irrelevant) , they had RedOctane making the controllers. My Guitar Hero 1 guitar 
 lasted me through 4 Guitar Hero games, and Rock Band for PS2.
  
  Having sold my PS2 and upgraded to a PS3, I sold the PS2 guitar and all my GH games, and picked 
 up Rock Band so I could see what all the fuss was about with the DLC and online play features (missing 
 from the PS2 version of course) . The drums were the only thing that was compatible (I didn't own 
 a microphone) , so I bought a PS3 wireless official Rock Band guitar as well.
  
  Within 3 weeks time, I had gone through 3 guitars. First one, Tilt Sensor was all over the place. 
 Sometimes it would just randomly go off. Most of the time it wouldn't respond at all. Not a HUGE 
 deal in solo play, but in competition and online play, a much bigger problem.
  
  So I returned that guitar, only to get one that wouldn't even power on out of the box. Another 
 30 minute drive to the game store (Same day) , and guitar number 3 finally works it seems.... until 
 after 2 hours of play, the tilt sensor starts not recognizing a full 90 degree upward tilt all 
 of the time (missing about 3-4 out of 10) .
  
  Amidst this, broken drums (my friend has gone through 2 sets of drums already, and 2 guitars himself) , 
 and some missing features for the online play, I cannot see how any reviews could give this game 
 a 9 out of 10.
  
  ONLINE PLAY: It's a lot of fun to get together with friends online and tour as a virtual band. 
 Pick up bands though, are hit and miss as with any online "Random" matchmaking system.
  
  The real problem with online play, for me at least, comes into the Tug of War and Score competitions. 
 While playing both of those modes, 2 days in a row, I had 9 people quit after they lost one round. 
 One "girl" I played against, won against me twice, I was ahead in the third round, she bailed halfway 
 through the song. The others, quit right in the first song if they weren't winning right off the 
 bat. THIS IS VERY FRUSTRATING AND REALLY RUINS THE FUN OF THE PICK-UP ONLINE PLAY. Only 2 people 
 I played against, continued playing after losing, one of them was a great match for me (we were 
 neck and neck constantly) , and - WHAT REALLY IMPRESSED ME - an 8 year old played against me, lost 
 6 times in a row, but had a good time, and was the most polite player I had ever met, and I would 
 be glad to play band mode or any mode with him anytime. Wish more people could take a cue from 
 this 8 year old kid.
  
  Another problem is that if you want to do say a guitar tug of war against someone, you can't choose 
 to be the leader, choose the song and difficulty in advance, before someone joins. Likewise, you 
 have no idea what level of player you are going to join in against. I was seriously mismatched 
 against players that were Easy/Medium difficulty while I was doing Hard and Expert. There is no 
 way to just set up a set list either for those online modes, instead you must select each song 
 individually after the previous finishes. These are things I believe Harmonix could have fixed 
 with patches or updates, but unfortunately haven't.
  
  Another issue, is invites for bands. I had a PSN "Friend" inviting me to join a band TWICE, and 
 it never worked. the first time, I was in-game, and never got any notification of it that I could 
 tell. The second time he sent an invite, I again didn't know about it until he was in the process 
 of exiting the game. This is another area that is seriously flawed, and hampers the enjoyment of 
 online play.
  
  So, to summarize, here we go:
  
  1) Faulty instruments that don't hold up well. Buyer Beware - 60 dollar guitar has only 60 day 
 warranty through EA Games. They aren't cheaply priced, but yet they aren't reliable for the most 
 part.
  
  2) Online features needed more thought/work to foster a better community
  
  3) Tons of DLC makes it hard to get bored with the songs, but that also comes at a price... of 
 2 dollars per song (Way overpriced imo, it's not like you can transfer it to PC or ipod and actually 
 listen to the track as well, so to me that is a total waste. Full albums retail for 14.99, and 
 again, they are good for Rock Band, and that's it. Way too much.)
  
  4) Great Note Charts make the game fun to play at any difficulty (although, I highly recommend 
 to start with HARD, as this will get you started using correct finger placement earlier on) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goosey7683
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 1:24 pm PT
Review:  This game is just great you can just rock out with all your friends, find out about new songs your 
 have never heard or play a song perfectly because you have heard it and you know every word. The 
 question on everyones mind is, is it worth the $170 and i will have to tell you YES IT IS WORTH 
 THE $170! The is a game that I know you will be playing for hours I have played it for so long 
 that I have forgot about the time and have played it from 11-7 because its so much fun! People 
 say that "its a rip off its just a copy of guitar hero, with drums and a mic so whats the point." 
 I always say yes it is a copy if you want to look at it that way... the guitar is a copy and the 
 mic is a copy of singstar and the drums is just a new addition, but you can't tell me that when 
 you were playing guitar hero or singstar you didnt think that it would sweet to combine those two 
 games and throw some drums in there! The gameplay is just great, even better at parties! I do reconmend 
 this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlYsTaTiOn_rock
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 10, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  OK, i love music. thats it. And this game has fufilled my ROCKSTAR dreams and puts you under the 
 pressure of being a rock band. Ive played GH before, and ill say this. Its great, but.. it just 
 cant measure up to the amount of content, DLC, gamemodes, and gameplay. ROCKBAND is a "masterpiece" 
 One of the great things about ROCKBAND is that it puts out an amazing visual disign. When you are 
 watching all your friends play, you can be totally entertained by the stuff going on in the backround. 
 All the instruments are sycronized with the music. The guitarist is playing the riff. And the drummer 
 is hitting the right pads at the right time. The singer is SINGING. playing is fun, but watching 
 has been the best. Especially with the AMAZING character designs. World Tour is the best idea of 
 a campaign EVER. It didnt take tht long for me, my brother, and my friends to beat it. But, it did 
 leave us messing around with custimization, and leaving us indecisive about wich set list to play 
 next. I havent made hundreds of characters, ive centered around just one for each instrument. Its 
 working out great, with lots of effort put into each of them to make them look like a BAND. Finally 
 making the "Hall of Fame" was such a relief in the end. Mostly because some of the songs were played 
 OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER again. After we beat it, they released the update to not have the 
 same song repeat so many times. They were a little late, but it came. Over all, World Tour is a 
 blast. The guitar is fun to play but, the DRUMS are AWESOME. I started out as a medium drummer, 
 mostly because i dont really play drums (i play guitar) . After awhile i was getting better, and 
 better. And Finally i was halfway through EXPERT (i still am) . Since i am pretty good at expert 
 i decided to see if i could play real drums, and i can! Ive played multiple times for people, and 
 more people ask for me to play drums for them. Its great, ROCKBAND does make u good at real drums. 
 So if your parents wont let u buy real drums, and u want to learn how to play drums, buy ROCKBAND. 
 The only thing i dint like about ROCKBAND was its difficulty. Im not the best at the game, but 
 i know it just isnt as hard as GH. It wont make the difficult easy, because even though its not 
 as hard as GH, its still somewhat hard. But i think its JUST RIGHT. So, ROCKBAND deserves a 10 
 for making the best game around. It just feels so good, cause it has the most replay value EVER. 
 If you just like GH, thats too bad, because your missing out on the best game of the year for the 
 future ROCKSTARS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diamond_king23
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 9, 2008 7:39 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is by far the best music game available for any console, and is a must try for even people 
 who aren't big on listening to music. There is something about the multiplayer action that really 
 brings out the magic, and nothing will ever bring you closer to being in a real band (except literally 
 being in a real band of course ; ) ) The drumming part of the game is so addicting you'll be asking 
 for more! I think perhaps the best part of this game is all of the DLC, which consists of an everlasting 
 list of unbelievable songs. The graphics in this game are way better than those of Guitar Hero 
 so it's pretty much a no-brainer as to which of the two games you should purchase. And you might 
 say, well what if I don't like the songs in Rock Band over Guitar Hero... well, remember, there 
 is a huge selection of Downloadable Content available at the Playstation Store!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: random_guy561
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  When Harmonix released the original Guitar Hero in 2005, it was a suprising breakthrough hit. Then, 
 they developed a sequel, Guitar Hero II, released in 2006. By this time, the series was a culural 
 phenomonan, being played at parties, night clubs and restaurants. Harmonix then released what effectively 
 was a 80's edition of Guitar Hero II. It was Guitar Hero Encore: Rocks the 80's, and it wasnt as 
 succesful as the previous games in the series. Soon after than was released, disaster struck, Red 
 Octane, the guys who made the Guitar Hero controllers, were bought buy Activision. Harmonix pulled 
 out of the Guitar Hero scene. Fans were in confusion, was the series at an end? In October 2007, 
 there hopes were answered by Activision who teamed up with Neversoft to bring to all next-gen consoles 
 Guitar Hero III. But Harmonix wasnt out the game yet. In all of this time, they were working on 
 the true developer sequel to Guitar Hero. The game was called Rock Band, and it was first showed 
 at the E3 Conference 2007 in Barker Hangar. What was new about Rock Band is the ability not just 
 to play Guitar and Bass, but to be able to play Drums and Vocals.
  
  This is where my review starts. Rock Band was released one month after Guitar Hero III rocked onto 
 US shelves. It was a huge hit, selling thousands in its first month. In this review, I will explain 
 why.
  
  In Rock Band you form a Band and tour the world in a ton of different venues. There are over 60 
 songs in Rock Band, inferior to Guitar Hero's 85. But this doesnt really matter, as Rock Band will 
 have lots of downloadable songs, trackpacks, albums and even compilations. Ok, lets start off: 
 Graphics. Amazing, far better than Guitar Hero, artisitic style is fantastic, video effects such 
 as blur and contrast really make it look as though youre being filmed onstage, just amazing venue 
 detail, character models, shadows, instruments and fantastic animations (mo-capped probably) .
 
  Great tracklist: Rolling Stones, NIN, Outlaws, Radiohead, Strokes, Rush, Iron Maiden... Its all 
 here and in 4 instrument glory. Drums are a new and very welcome addition to this game, they are 
 very fun to play but there are some concerns about the quality of the hardware. The drum pedal 
 is built out of thin plastic and will snap if you have a heavy stomp. The Guitar is shaped after 
 the famous Fender Stratocaster, and has some nice features to it nice an effects switch and a more 
 realistic whammy bar and a strum bar which doesnt click. It has its problems though, the tilt sensor 
 is very bad, fails to pick up some movements and can get frustating. 
  
  The game itself though is perfect, whith the ability to customize your own character, play at over 
 40 venues and with over 60 songs, Rock Band is a game not to miss.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: playstation4lyf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a very solid party game that takes what guitar hero did with guitar mechanics, and 
 what SingStar did with singing, and threw in some drums, and turned it into one of the best party 
 games to date. The guitar is basically a longer guitar hero guitar, and added in some extra buttons 
 at the bottom of the neck that don't require strumming when you are playing guitar solos. I have 
 had problems with the guitar working. it worked for about 5 months, but then something happened 
 with the strummer, and the strumming is off. but when the guitar worked, it was a fun experience 
 that you owe it to yourself to try out. The singing is basically a logitech mic and the mechanics 
 of the singing are easy to figure out. the words show up on the screen, and green lines show how 
 high or low you need to sing. the drums are composed of 4 different color pads, and a bass pedal. 
 the drums are easy to pick up and play, and i have had no problems with it breaking or anything 
 of that sort. the setlist on rock band is extensive. with bonus tracks added in it comes to about 
 50 or 60 songs on the disc. if you still want more, then you can download extra tracks or albums 
 off the playstation store. all in all rock band is for sure a game that you want to check out if 
 you like guitar hero, or if u want a party game to give yourself hours of enjoyment 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 777jon
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band for PS3 is amazing and really fun playing it with other people. The only bad thing is 
 that the package only comes with one guitar, one drum set, and one microphone. It should come with 
 two guitar so it is a full band. For the good part of Rock Band for PS3 is that it is really fun 
 when you are playing with other people. It really feels like you are in a real band. Because you 
 have a bass, guitar, drums, and microphone. And another good part is that you can buy songs you 
 want from the PlayStation Store if you don't like any of the songs. Also, the guitar make no sound 
 when you strum so that is good for people who do not want to hear the guitar strum. The drums are 
 really loud when you hit them really hard but you can buy the covers that make it not sound that 
 loud. And the singing is also really fun. 
  Rock Band is really fun!!: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hackerkia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Even if you don't like rhythm games, this game will have you on your feet, ready to sing or play 
 guitar, AND in your seat, ready to bang it out on the drums. With 4 difficulty levels (Easy, Medium, 
 Hard, Expert) it's easy to find the perfect difficulty for you. World Tour mode (solo or multi-player) 
 lets you & some friends tour around the world playing music, trying to reach the top. Online is 
 a big plus, competing against other bands, trying to be #1 on the charts. You have your choice 
 between playing drums, guitar, bass, or vocals. It's ultra-fun when you get a group of friends 
 to play on each instrument, and you rock out all together. This makes Rock Band great for parties. 
 Anyone who has played any of the old Guitar Hero games should get the hang of guitar immediately. 
 The most difficult instrument to play is definitely drums. But surprisingly, if you get up to expert 
 on drums in Rock Band, you can actually be a decent drummer when you step on to a real drum set. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The bitter war between Electronic Arts and Activision continues to live on, and the gaming world 
 is better for it. As opposed to only Tony Hawk, we now have SKATE thrown into the mix. And as opposed 
 to Guitar Hero, we now have Rock Band. In fact, it's a good thing that Harmonix and Activision 
 parted ways, because we may have had to wait much longer for a game like Rock Band to come along. 
 Because just like SKATE, Rock Band expands greatly on the rhythm genre, though don't be mistaken, 
 it isn't revolutionary. The clear differences between Guitar Hero and Rock Band are the additions 
 of two new elements: drums and singing. 
  Immediately, Rock Band is a guaranteed success simply because it features guitar-based rhythm gameplay 
 brought to you by the creators of the Guitar Hero franchise (Harmonix) . In fact, even if Rock Band 
 didn't have the singing and drums, it'd still have toppled Guitar Hero III as the better game. 
 The reason why Rock Band's guitar gameplay is better can be attributed to the guitar bundled in 
 the package. The Fender guitar, while not as sturdy as the Guitar Hero III axe, simply feels better. 
 It's quieter to play on, features softer buttons, and most importantly has a second set of buttons 
 further down the neck designed for soloing. And even though the slimmer set of buttons is for solos, 
 you can still play the game using only them - which I found myself doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  I have played both Guitar Hero 3 and Rock Band and I can honestly say that Rock Band takes what 
 went horribly wrong with Neversoft's attempt at Guitar Hero and makes it much better in Rock Band. 
 Rock Band, whether it is the vocals, guitar, bass, or drums just FEELS like a modern music game 
 should feel. This is a title that is almost unrivaled in the realm of innovative and entertaining 
 multiplayer. If you find a game that unifies 4 people on one screen in a better way, please let 
 me know. The presentation of Rock band is one that screams quality, after all, Harmonix is behind 
 it. The graphics do appear a bit "fuzzier" at times than Guitar Hero, but, the animations more 
 than make up for this. All of the band members appear to jump all over the stage and the drummer 
 doesn't look like the terminator playing drums like in a certain other title. Also, the visual 
 filters are very much worth taking note of when you can cut a glance at them. Likewise, the sound 
 effects are spot on, as this IS a music game. The sound track is much more conducive to both a 
 single and multi-player experience. However, get ready for some quiet moments if you play by yourself 
 because songs such as "Won't Get Fooled Again" have some periods with just one instrument playing. 
 Overall, this is in fact the definitive music experience on consoles, just get ready to shell out 
 more than you might think. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madnessguy10
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 11, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a good and awesome game on the PS3. It has a good song setlist and songs from guitar 
 hero. It looks really awesome on a HD TV. The intro is really cool They have good video previews 
 for it. I like how you can form your own setlist on multiplayer and how you can make your own character 
 and buy a good selection of clothes and instruments. I like all the controllers like the drums, 
 mic, and guitar. I like how the mic doesn't feel cheap or like plastic. The drums have a nice beat 
 to them and they are easy to use. The guitar is more life like than the guitar hero controller. 
 The tutorials for all the controllers are really easy to do. Rock Band is way easier than guitar 
 hero. It has a cool game title. Rock Band is a really awesome game!! Everything about the game 
 is good and awesome. Harmonix did a good job and put a lot of effort into making this game and 
 I really admire that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDawg7
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 9, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band's main complaint is the price, however if you have the available money to buy this game, 
 I suggest it. Rock Band has an overall more polished feel than Guitar Hero, and the graphics are 
 more realistic than GH (I have owned both, so that's how I can compare) . The guitar is very cool 
 looking, and has many cool features. They have "solo buttons" where during solos you can use the 
 little buttons near the bottom of the neck of the guitar. One feature that at least I find interesting 
 about that is that during the solo you only press the buttons (meaning that you actually so not 
 strum the strum bar) . Also the guitar has a switch that allows you to choose different sounds (Chorus, 
 Echo, Wah-Wah, etc.) . The guitar may be different, it is extremely easy in comparison to GH. The 
 drums are also revolutionary. A complaint about them is that the drum set (especially the pedal) 
 breaks easily, however I have not had any trouble whatsoever. There is also a microphone, which 
 is fun, but the least interesting of three. The multiplayer is what sets Rock Band apart. Co-op 
 is fun for GH, but not nearly as fun as Band World Tour. Everyone relies upon everyone, and when 
 someone fails, another member can bring them back. Overall, this is a great game, and if the price 
 isn't a hindering factor, definitely worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is undoubtedly a masterpiece of party gaming. It's a complete thrill to be sitting down 
 smashing away at the drums, gargling away into the mic and shredding the frets off of the guitar 
 and feels like an excellent fusion of Singstar, Guitar Hero and Drum Revolution, however I would 
 still rather play Guitar Hero, and here's why.
  
  Initially Rock Band is a highly tempting package. Harmonix devloped the game, they guys who originally 
 brought you Guitar Hero, is a welcome start in the right direction, and perhaps if made by anyone 
 else it may not be as engaging as it.
  
  It's a very pick up and play kind of game that anyone can get into and veyr simplistic in it's 
 approach to conveying the notes on screen, easy and manageable. Though on screen, it can get very 
 cluttered if you are playing the full variety of instruments and vocals, and newcomers may feel 
 overwhelmed at this.
  
  Rock Band is also very deep in customisation offering a gorge worthy amount of drooling options 
 to pimp you character out with. The downer to the depth of this, is you will have to buy a lot 
 of clothing and visuals options with you're in game moola, from the rather mixed up and unfocused 
 career mode. A lot like Guitar Hero's career mode you play straight setlists down a list of songs, 
 but sometimes they will be random and you will end up playing that song maybe five times repeatedly 
 throughout your career.
  
  The multi player is fun and the strongest part of the game, obviously. If you have two or more 
 mates, Rock Band is an exciting and totally enjoyable prospect. It matches GH and Singstar easily 
 but being the more expensive option, it will set you back more for a similar experience you can 
 match for less cash. Despite that Rock Band is a welcome party addition and addiction that's accessible 
 to almost everyone.
  
  
  However the tracklist is very strong, and very similar to GHIII. With The Strokes and The Killers 
 but the real juicy hook of the Rock Band tracklist is the downloadable content and this is where 
 it beats GHIII and then smacks to the floor, stamps on its face and rubs dirty sirty mud in it's 
 once shining eyes. RB takes DLC to the same level as Singstar, weekly updates and a choice list 
 of literally 100's of ear banging thumping tunes. Singstar has a fairly good track record of decent 
 updates, but Rock Band is the business when it comes to this. Though you can not buy individual 
 songs, you have to buy packs - which are considerably more expensive (try 3.99) .
  
  As impressive as Rock Band is, you would have thought this would have translated to into the build 
 and quality of the actual instruments, unfortunately it doesn't. The guitar is a fine example of 
 this, the fret buttons feel sticky and unresponsive and don't provide a satisfying click like GH, 
 it's very hard to distinguish where your hand is and the neck where the buttons are is very slippy. 
 It's heftier than the GH guitar and looks more realistic but it doesn't feel right and very awkward. 
 I like the idea of the solo buttons so you can shred your own smoke-machine, light shining, dry 
 ice and lycra solo but I don't see any real need for them to be there. Why couldn't I use the normal 
 frets? The microphone feels unresonsive and like it can't recognise my fantastic voice and as brilliant 
 as the drum are, go easy on the foot pedal as it is very flimsy and liable of falling off.
  
  For the steep price tag (180) , I'm not sure this is acceptible and with no option to use my 
 GH guitar with the game makes you have to buy that shoddy inferior model presented with the Rock 
 Band bundle - an extra 30 you don't really want to spend. The stars of the show, the drums are 
 what you really want, and again, there is no option to buy them individually, which is what I, 
 as a skint and moneyless student who still wants to have a laugh, would have in his perfect world.
 
  
  Overall Rock Band is the funnest party game ever invented. Ever. Though the shoddy intrument quality 
 lets it down, nothing can beat it, until Guitar Hero IV arrives. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killroycantkill
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:09 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a multiplatform rhythm game for the Playstation 3, and Xbox360 (Also soon for the 
 Wii) made by Harmonix (ex Guitar Hero guys) . As stated Rock Band is a rhythm game that has you 
 pressing buttons on plastic instruments as notes come streaming towards you on the screen. The 
 game comes with a guitar, drum set, and a microphone (considering you get the special edition version 
 of the game) . The game has a pretty steep price tag for the whole package but the game is definitely 
 worth the price. Or now if you don't want every instrument they now sell all the peripherals separately 
 so you can buy the game and just one instrument if you want.
  
  Songs are mainly focused for multiplayer gaming but that dose not mean that playing the single 
 player is any less fun. For single player you choose your instruments from the ones listed above, 
 create your character and then you start rocking. The game is played by pressing coloured buttons 
 on your instrument corresponding with the colours that flow down the chart. Also via the Guitar 
 Hero series they have the super power of the game called Overdrive. You get this by hitting a series 
 of white gems that occasionally scroll down the screen and when you get your bar half filled you 
 either tilt you guitar or play the drum fill to activate it. This power gives you double points 
 for notes and also refills your rock meter at the side faster which will help you on tough parts 
 of the songs. The main set list contains of 58 songs with such great songs as Won't Get Fooled 
 Again by The Who, Foreplay/Longtime by Boston, Don't Fear the Reaper by Blue Oyster Cult, the list 
 goes on. Also Harmonix have put in the famous bonus track list with bands like Freezepop and Honest 
 Bob and the Factory to Dealer Incentives. These bonus tracks are great additions to the list and 
 go along well with all the main songs. 
  
  The difficulty of Rock Band starts off easy enough for people who are new to the rhythm genre to 
 be able to play and have fun, but in the high difficulties it is challenging enough to keep you 
 veterans of the timed button mashing on your toes. Also the difficulty curve is very even. There 
 is never a point in the game where you will be playing a set on medium then the next set on medium 
 will just come out of know where and kick your ass (*cough* last set on Guitar Hero 3 on expert 
 *cough*) . The hardest of all the instruments though is unsurprisingly the drums. The kick pedal 
 is a new thing for your brain to get used to and will be hard at first but as you get later into 
 the game you will be wondering how you ever had a hard time with it. 
  
  The guitar for Rock Band is modeled off the real life guitar, the Fender Stratocaster and is solidly 
 built and is also wireless. Unfortunately it dose not connect directly to your systems wireless, 
 it is wireless because you have to plug in a wireless nub into one of our systems USB ports. The 
 neck on the guitar is thinner than I would like it to be since I am used to the Guitar Hero neck 
 thickness but it is still comfortable none the less. The button set up is your standard five button 
 set up with your favourite green, red, yellow, blue, and orange buttons. The one cool new feature 
 on the guitar controller is the added "Solo Buttons" on the lower neck of the guitar. These buttons 
 are smaller and closer together. When you get into a solo on the guitar track (you will know when 
 you are in it when the note path goes all blue and a percent sign shows up above the path.) you 
 are able to hit all those notes without strumming which is a great help on the harder difficulties. 
 Like the insane solo on the song Green Grass and High Tides by The Outlaws. Also another new feature 
 on the guitar a little slider on the guitar which changes the sound effect that the guitar makes 
 when you go into overdrive mode. It is not a big part to the game but it adds some fun. Also the 
 bass is set up the same way as the guitar; accept the multiplier can go up to six instead of only 
 the regular four.
  
  The drums are one of the more interesting instruments to play in the game. It has four main pads 
 that you hit with the drum sticks and the bass pedal on the floor. The drum set is wired, but that 
 is good because you do not want any latency between you hitting the pad and the notes on the screen. 
 When you first start drums the bass pedal will be the bane of your existence and you will possibly 
 want to smash it. But once you get used to it you will be able to alternate between hitting the 
 pads and the pedal without thinking about it. Some of the song gets ridiculously hard on the drums. 
 For example Run to the Hills by Iron Maiden. This song was the last song I beat on the drums and 
 it is noted as the second hardest song The song is just a flurry of red coming at you all the 
 time for the whole song. The drums are not the sturdiest of the instruments; in fact I had my bass 
 pedal snap in half on me. Nothing a little duck tape couldn't fix but that's not the point. The 
 drums are going to be smashed on they should have made them a little sturdier. 
  
  The last instrument is the microphone. It is a standard microphone There is nothing special about 
 it. The game play for singing is your standard karaoke game the words come across the screen and 
 you have to sing the word at a certain pitch. One cool thing is that when like a tambourine or 
 cowbell part comes up in the song these circles and when they get in the area you hit the microphone 
 against your hand like a tambourine and it's a really fun addition to the singing.
  
  Even though the single player game is straight forward complete a set of songs then move on to 
 the next until you are done. The multiplayer has a more depth to it then that. In multiplayer you 
 have your standard quick play option but now you also have Band World Tour. This mode you and a 
 friend make a character or use previous ones that you have created and make your own band. You 
 get to make your own band name, choose where you're from and then you're off. In the start you 
 play the easier sets getting money and getting fans. The more fans you have the more venues and 
 song you can play. But also the game forces you to get better so you can't just cruise all the 
 way through the world tour mode on easy. Eventually when you get to a certain amount of fans you 
 will have to move up a difficulty level. The difficulty raise dose not come too fast that's to 
 the latest patch and the songs do not repeat too often so you won't be hearing the same song over 
 and over in the set lists. 
  
  The game has been out for a while and with that a ton of downloadable content has come along with 
 it. Rock Band has been coming out with a minimum of three songs a week since it came out. Since 
 then they have also released two albums. They have released Judas Priest album Screaming for Justice 
 and The Cars self titled album. All the songs are priced at $1.99 unless otherwise posted like 
 on whole albums or song packs.
  
  The game overall rocks (pun intended) . You have a great 58 song list before any type of DLC and 
 with the DLC the list climbs to 100+. Great peripherals to rock on, amazing note charts, and a 
 whole bag o fun in multiplayer Rock Band is game that you have to add to your collection. Between 
 rocking out with your friends and three new songs coming out every week Rock Band will have you 
 playing for a long time to come.
  
  Pros: Great rhythm game, good graphics, great song list, superb note charts, there's an instrument 
 for everyone.
  
  Cons: Instruments are a little fragile, single player mode dose not stack up to the fun of multiplayer.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkearse36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a fun game and a great party game. If you like guitar (ing) or singing alone than this 
 is not your game. If you like drumming it is. But this game is a great experience if you have atleast 
 2 people with you. If you have four then its RRLY good. You actually feel like your drumming (if 
 you are doing it right) and same with guitar. People say that this game breaks way easily but i 
 am being cautious with my drum and its lasted eight months. The demo at the store foot petal broke 
 so I can see there complaining but this game is a good game! The drums do NOT make a lot of sound 
 I have no idea what people are talking about when they say that the drums make too much sound when 
 they hit him. THAT IS LIE! I think people with extremely sensitive ears will be bothered. Unless 
 your pounding away then it can be noisy but Definitly worth 180 bucks for me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 11:22 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is, in a word, awesome. Trailing songs with adjustable difficulties, not to mention some 
 of the best customization I've ever seen, makes the game worth owning and playing over and over 
 again.
  
  Rock band is everything that the hype said it was about. Each song can be played using four different 
 instruments, which include drums, microphone, bass guitar, and lead guitar. It features a wide 
 variety of songs that offer different difficulties ranging from easy to expert.
  
  Customization is something that makes the game not only really fun but also really takes the cake. 
 You physically "build" your character from the ground up. You pick if you want your character to 
 be male or female, you pick their instrument, you pick their height, weight, eye color, face type, 
 hair style, and even what form of music they play. Even after all of this there is so much more. 
 Completing songs earns you money, which you use to buy anything from clothes to new instruments. 
 The game even features an area where you can make your own tattoos!
  
  Rock band lacks in nothing besides the fact that, though fun by yourself, it is always better with 
 three others so that you can all play, laugh, and argue like a real band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 20, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Totally blows Guitar Hero out of the water!
  
  Hands down, best party game ever.
  Hell, maybe even the best game ever.
  Rock Band perfectly exemplifies the fundamental appeal 
 of video games: doing things that you can't really do in real life. This game allows anybody to 
 pick up a toy instrument with a copule of his friends and pretend that they are all kick-ass rock 
 stars.
  
  This game is perfect for anybody who either:
  A. is a fan of rock music
  B. is a fan of music in general
  C. is a karaoke addict
  D. is looking for a really fun multiplayer 
 game, group, or family activity
  E. wants to feel like a rock star
  F. any combination of the above.
  
  The game does have a few problems though:
  1. Each character 
 can only play one instrument. It would have been a lot nicer if you could create a character avatar/profile 
 for yourself and could play any instrument. But instead, if you are planning on being a jack-of-all-trades, 
 you are going to have to create an avatar for each instrument.
  2. The whole band leader thing is irritating. You must create a band leader, who MUST be in the 
 band in order to play. And since the band leader, like all other characters, is locked down to 
 a single instrument, it limits what you can do.
  3. Cannot create your own songs.
  4. Overdrive deployment can sometimes be a pain, especially with drums and vocals since they can 
 only be used at specific points in the song.
  5. The hardware is of questionable quality. They are a little fragile, and the drum pads don't 
 really look or feel anything like real drums. In fact, if you've seen a picture of Activision's 
 Guitar Hero 4 drum set, then the Rock Band one will suddenly look kinda bland and cheesey.
  
  But overall, this is still one of the best games to ever grace a living room. If you have friends, 
 you should get them together with a copy of Rock Band and let your inner rock star shine through. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake0401
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Guitar Hero series I was annoyed when I saw EA putting their big money monopoly 
 hands into the musical genre. I saw how they manhandled the NFL license agreement and forced a 
 2K series out of the market, that, at the very least at least encouraged EA not to be lazy with 
 their Madden series. I regress.
  
  After a day long of beer darts and grilling out with the college buddies, I apparently thought 
 it would be a great idea to go out and buy Rock Band. At the time the $180 seemed like chump change 
 (ahhhh beer goggles!) and was instantly off the target shelves and en route to our place for some 
 serious rockage.
  
  Of course, we initially thought the microphone was broken, and in a drunken fury my friend decided 
 to start swinging it around like a lasso above his head. Luckily we figured out we needed a controller 
 to activate it and it still worked, even after our initial "stress testing."
  
  That being said the next 7 or so hours were a glorious, beer filled journey with an exceptional 
 party game. Rock Band does nothing INCREDIBLY, but manages to produce a variety of options of musical 
 positions very well. Whether you are just strumming through some songs on your own, or have the 
 group over for a party game, Rock Band won't dissapoint.
  
  The song list is good - great. And the Downloadable Content that continues to come in definitely 
 helps. Green Grass and High Tides, Foreplay/Longtime, Wanted Dead or Alive, and Give Me Shelter 
 can get the house rocking in a hurry. Fans of all genres of rockage will find something they can 
 like and appreciate in the game. 
  
  As far as the execution goes, this is wear Rock Band begins to show its weaker points. Personally, 
 the guitar felt cheap to me. The strum bar on the guitar lacks the punchy click that the Guitar 
 hero controllers have and the actual fret buttons also just seemed sub-par to the GH controllers. 
 The idea of the "solo" buttons on the bottom does work well however, and this controller is a solid 
 entry into the market for Harmonix. My guitar did however break after 2 1/2 weeks for no apparent 
 reason, and I eventually ended up returning the game (due to its high cost and college expenses 
 as well as the quality of the actual instruments) .
  
  The drums work exceptionally well. In fact, this may be Rock Bands' greatest asset. Playing the 
 drums is challenging and exceptionally fun all at the same time. Most of my friends enjoyed playing 
 them much more than the guitar and it is a testament to their solid construction and the innate 
 fun derived from banging on a drum set.
  
  The dread microphone/lead singer position is quickly alleviated once a few beers are consumed, 
 and allow this game to function perfectly in a college house or when you have friends over. While 
 one may cringe at the sound of their vocals against a wailing Bon Jovi, fear not, as the singing 
 keeps the game fun for a group and in many cases quite entertaining.
  
  The downloadable content thus far has been great. I really dug the Grateful Dead package, and the 
 guitar bits in them were a blast to play. Similarly, the downloadable content is reasonably priced, 
 and will allow you to continue to expand your library for quite some time.
  
  Overall, Rock Band is an ambitious title. It set out to raise the bar of the musical genre, and 
 indeed did so, particularly in the scope of what a music game can be. However, aside from the drums, 
 it fails to pull any of these features off as well as Guitar Hero does. Perhaps it is just a personal 
 preference, but I simply found the guitar to feel cheap, soft, and unresponsive in contrast to 
 the GH controllers.
  
  If you have $180 laying around and have frequent visitors (or won't mind having frequent visitors) 
 Rock Band is a solid purchase. The DLC, ambitious scope, and well done execution make it a great 
 purchase that will have longevity in your gaming library. The drums are a load of fun, and the 
 vocals provide an entertaining lobby for a group of friends to have a great time.
  
  However, if you are looking more for straight guitar shredding action, you simply cannot beat the 
 price point or quality of the Guitar Hero series.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seth619
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  PLAYING THE GAME:
  Guitar/Bass: The guitar is the second least innovative of the three peripherals. Mainly based off 
 of the Guitar Hero guitar controller, it has five colors, like usual, but there is one set near 
 the top and one set near the bottom. The ones near the body are smaller and can be used to fingertap 
 through the solos. The ones near the head are just the usual frets. Overdrive is basically Star 
 Power, and it is activated the same way as the GH controllers. 8/10
  
  Vocals: This is the least innovative because microphones have been around for years. Basically, 
 you will see green lines and words. You sing the words to the pitch (green lines) . If the lines 
 are yellow, then nail it and get some energy, which is used for Overdrive. To activate Overdrive, 
 simply yell "Woo!" or "Oh yeah!" or something similar when a yellow field comes up on the chart. 
 7/10
  
  Drums: The funnest and most innovative of all peripherals. There are four drum pads: (from left 
 to right) red, yellow, blue, and green. Basically, red is the snare, yellow and blue are the toms/cymbals, 
 and the green is the crash. A pedal also comes with it. The pedal will come up as simply an orange 
 line on the screen. This is the funnest Overdrive instrument because you get a drum fill and at 
 the end, the green pad will be there. If you hit the green pad, it sounds like a crash. This activates 
 Overdrive. 10/10
  
  
  OVERDRIVE:
  Overdrive is basically Star Power. It can be used to give you a boost in popularity or multiply 
 your points. In a band, you can use it to bring back friends that are having an "off night."
  
  
  ONLINE:
  In this mode, you can do three things: play as a band online, go against someone 
 in a "Score Duel", or go against someone in a "Tug of War."
  
  Online Band:
  Like the name implies, you can play as a band online.
  
  Score Duel:
  You can only go against 
 someone using the same instrument as you. You play a song and see whoever gets the highest points.
 
  
  Tug of War:
  Same rules as Score Duel, except instead of points, it's popularity. You each get a certain part 
 of the notes chart. If you play good, the crowd will like you more. Whoever has the most of the 
 crowd on their side wins.
  
  
  PERIPHERAL PROBLEMS:
  Guitar/Bass: The guitar's strum bar is VERY EASY TO BREAK. The contacts that make it "strum" easily 
 get out of alignment. Online, there are many "remedies" you can read about.
  
  Drums: The pedal is VERY EASY TO BREAK as well. It usually snaps into two pieces. Online, there 
 are many "remedies" you can read about. You can also order an Omega/Destroyer Pedal.
  
  
  DLC:
  Downloadable content, or DLC, is available at the PSN Store/Xbox Live. They are around 
 $2 a piece. This DLC is basically more songs to download.
  
  
  CONCLUSION:
  This isn't a perfect game because of the easy destruction of the instruments, but if they were 
 sturdier, this would be the perfect game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lil_luz_10
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 20, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  I first played Rock Band when my brother came home for the weekend with his PS3. We started playing 
 around 7:00pm or so and probably played with an occasional break all the way till 2:00am. This 
 game is amazing.
  
  First of all great range of difficulty. Its not like Guitar Hero where you have to be a long time 
 player of the series to pick it up and play like its nothing. Besides the guitar layout and solo 
 buttons leave Guitar Hero in the dust.
  
  Rock Band gives you a karaoke mic so you can rock out with the vocals. "Dont Fear the Reaper" is 
 great to play on the mic. When you hear the cow bell the mic has a built in sensor so when you 
 slap the top of the mic you make tambourine and cow bow sounds.
  
  The best part... the drums. By far the most addicting part of the game. It is true what they say 
 if you can get 5 stars you can play a 4/4 beat on a real drumset. Like the guitar, drum difficulties 
 have a wide range and allow pick up play and more challenging drum beats for more experienced players.
 
  
  Game modes are awesome. World tour is presented great and is full of humor. You'll laugh when you 
 when your first tour bus... a hippie van.
  
  $170 bucks totally worth it. Full of replay-ability, value, and most of all fun with your friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Some people say $170! What a rip-off. But yea i thought the same thing untill I bought it and it 
 is more of a good deal than a bad one. I mean you get a drum set and a nice guitar, dont forget the 
 mic. The mic is kinda like Singstar and the guitar is like Guitar Hero. But the drums is like nothing 
 I have ever saw before, tough at first but when you get the hang of it, it become easy and smooth. The 
 mic is pretty easy at easy and medium, gets kinda tough at hard and expert you can still beat it 
 after a while. This is amazing at partys... unless your drunk and singing "I Think I'm Paranoid" 
 and replacing Paranoid with drunk then.... ITS AWESOME! And the music store helps you pick up songs 
 pretty easily. Now they are coming out with full cd's, can't wait. They got a really good track list, songs 
 like "I'm So Sick","Highway Star","Won't Get Fooled Again","OK Go","Creep", and many others. The 
 "Band World Tour" is the big aspect of the game, and easily the funnest. The endless setlist is so 
 fun, hard, and long (sounds like im describing something else.... of course I'm talking about monopoly) . This 
 is easily amazing and great, I'm American but for the people in Europe I would much rather buy a 
 Wii or something, because it is 170 pounds there (I think) I'm not sure. But just plain amazing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 15, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  Hell YEAH! We all ready for "Rock n' Roll"!!! This game is the 1st step for that I highly recommend 
 this game for people who like sing and stuff like that it's great for training too sometimes I 
 use it for that and it really helped me out ALOT!
  
  Features:
  The game is fantastic and the price is great for what you get. There are plenty of songs and venues 
 and you can create your own band. Bored with the guitar? Start a bass, drum or singing solo career? 
 You could be playing this game until... not until Rock Band 2 but until the end of time. There 
 are downloadable songs nearly every week adding to an already impressive soundtrack. There's something 
 for everyone here, let's make it simple the question is "Is this game really worth?" the answer 
 is "Hell yeah", "Why" answer "Well hears SOME reasons:
  + Great price
  + Tons of replay value
  + Great soundtrack
  + Good amount of modes
  + Great after launch 
 support with DLC
  + Good amount of customization
  + A blast with friends"
  
  Graphics:
  Well the graphic isn't that good but who would care about them I mean come on it got 
 some great songs, that's all what we need from a music-game so yeah.
  
  So that all make the game really really WORTH it!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snowkarver
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  Not much hasn; t been said yet about the huge surge in the popularity of "family" and "casual" console 
 games over the past few years. From the earliest Dance Dance Revolution for Playstation to shelves 
 full of silly party titles for the Wii, it seems like every publisher wants to cash in on the demand 
 for simple, fun games that will have whole families and groups of friends giggling and back-slapping.
 
  
  Rock Band is the culmination of this trend in game development. The price of entry is steep at 
 just over $150, but realistically, for a latest-generation software title plus 2 1/2 dedicated 
 hardware controllers (the microphone barely counts as one) , it's neither ridiculous nor unfair 
 for the North American market. Of course, the recently-announced European pricing is another matter, 
 but at least you get the satisfaction of getting a big, hefty box full of toys for your hard-earned 
 money.
  
  For those with home theater systems, or at least a big-screen TV that goes loud, few things are 
 more fun than sitting around with good friends or family for a few hours, mastering fan favorites 
 on the road to musical world domination. With just over 50 in-game tracks, most from master recordings, 
 there's music to satisfy most any taste, but it's with downloadable content that Rock Band truly 
 shines. With 6 million tunes sold for Xbox and PS3, plus ongoing weekly releases of at least one 
 new song, Harmonix has already entered the record books as the most successful distributor of in-game 
 downloads ever. 
  
  Many have and will complain, of course, about pricing on the DLC, but given the realities of the 
 marketplace and the fact that most people will only find 2 or 3 tracks they really enjoy every 
 couple of months, the few dollars charged per title isn't particularly onerous - I mean, a basic 
 download from the iTunes back-catalog (with no additional work required for graphics, synchronization 
 and so on) already costs a dollar.
  
  Once you have content sorted out, it's off to practice, play a couple of quick solo gigs for fun, 
 or to the real meat and potatoes - getting together with your other band members for a World Tour. 
 In-game AV is commensurate with current-gen consoles, looks good, and sounds even better, especially 
 with Dolby Digital and a 5.1 sound system. With lights down and volume up, it really does feel 
 like you're all playing in your own concert DVD. Game controls on the PS3 are smooth and synchronized, 
 and we experienced no issues with timing for any of the instruments. Drums in particular seemed 
 slightly easier to play compared to the Xbox 360 version, where they were tough to nail.
  
  Not being either a Guitar Hero nor a complete klutz (just a gamer with very average reflexes) , 
 I found the difficulty settings to be "true". Easy is just enough of a challenge for younger players 
 or those with no gaming experience, and Expert is plenty difficult for all but those that win these 
 kinds of games with their backs facing the screen.
  
  As a personalization and RPG fan, two things I would have liked to see more of (given that the 
 most important thing, songs, are expandable via DLC) are a greater variety of character options 
 in the Rocker maker and Rock shop, and a few more cities in the world tour - each with a bit more 
 local flavor in their clubs and arenas. But these are small issues in an otherwise stellar implementation.
 
  
  If you like rock music, and you're looking for a good excuse to spend a bit more "silly time" with 
 your friends and family at home, run - don't walk - to get Rock Band. You won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgkennedy5
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 5:27 pm PT
Review:  Rock band is the best multiplayer experience I have ever had. It is everything guitar hero is and 
 more. The sound in the game is absolutely spectacular and every song is a master track. The Worlds 
 Tour mode is greeat and offers a lot of fun to people who have never played before. While sometimes 
 it may seem like you play the same songs a lot, you really don't because there are tons of songs 
 in the game. THere is also a great amount of downloadable content. As the songs get harder is gets 
 to be more fun, but the only problem I have is that it forces you to go to higher difficluties 
 before you are ready sometimes. The graphics are also great. They look very good and it looks very 
 realisitc. I also like being able to create my own characters and customizing their instruments. 
 I feel sorry for Ps2 and Wii owners because their version of the game isn't nearly as good. Between 
 the X360 and Ps3 there were only some slight differences. The X360 version lagged occasionally.... 
 and noticeably and the Ps3 didn't. Also the texture looks slightly better on the Ps3. Other than 
 this there are no differences. This is a great game and if you have the money you should buy it 
 because you will play it longer than most other games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTkid20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Great multiplayer; Freestyle is fun; Creating characters is easy and fun; Lots of great 
 songs; Easier to get used to than you would think; Every instrument is fun to play if you're good 
 at it.
  
  The Bad: Too expensive; Drumming is hard but awesome; Guitar's strum bar can be annoying.
  
 
  Rock Band, the game that lets you be almost like a real rock band by playing great songs on guitar, 
 (bass, rhythm, or lead) drums, or you can even sing them! If you have a group you can each play 
 a different instrument in a multiplayer game. If you've never played Guitar Hero, Singstar, Rock 
 Band or anything like this before, you can go to training on the main menu to watch tutoriaIs or 
 practice songs. This really helps. It sounds awesome right? Well it is!!!!!!! I give Rock Band 
 a 9.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 26, 2008 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Games that force you to use a controller other than the one that came with your console have seen 
 a surge last generation, with games like DDR, and Guitar Hero. Both franchises have seen success, 
 especially the latter. Developer Harmonix studios already knows this, and that's why they've decided 
 to create Rock Band, the music game claiming to be the best party game ever. Is Rock Band what 
 it claims to be? The answer overall, is yes, but that isn't to say Rock Band doesn't have its problems.
 
  
  The game, along with drums, one guitar, and a microphone is $160. This wouldn't be such a problem 
 if that is what everything is worth. However, the durability of the equipment is questionable, 
 and the track list isn't lengthy enough. The drums are made of thin metal, plastic, and rubber. 
 The metal and plastic should hold up, except for the foot pedal. This thing is basically a toddler 
 toy, and undoubtedly will snap, if vigorously stomped on. The drums themselves are made of rubber, 
 which is great, and suppresses sound fairly well, but they collect dust over time, and are impossible 
 to clean, without a vacuum. The microphone, is simply a microphone, that isn't even cordless, and 
 the guitar, actually is well put together, in comparison to everything else.
  
  The tracklist is held together by about 55 songs, which isn't as much as Guitar Hero III's 72. 
 There are some really great tracks, including songs by Jet, Blue Oyster Cult, The Killers, The 
 Who, Nine Inch Nails, and Radiohead. These will have you rocking out to the best of your abilities. 
 Unfortunately, about a third through the career mode, the good songs stop. The horrific R. E. M., 
 David Bowie, and Fallout Boy contaminate your eardrums. Of course, there are people who will love 
 every song in the game, but since this is my review, I get to say what I thought. I say that more 
 than half of the songs either suck, or are by unknown artists. This is a little disappointing, 
 especially for a music game, that focuses itself around its music. There should be some DLC later 
 on, but it's not free, and not many will be willing to pay even more for the already overpriced 
 game.
  
  Rock Band plays a lot like Guitar Hero. Color coded notes come across a bar, and you have to hit 
 the notes as they come to the edge of the screen. For drums, this is either hitting the green, 
 red, yellow, or blue pads, or the foot pedal, when the orange bar comes across the screen. The 
 controls are responsive to an extent, and the learning curve is really easy if you've played a 
 Guitar Hero before. It's fun as always, and is really simple. It's pretty solid.
  
  Playing the guitar or bass, is the exact same controls as Guitar Hero. However, things are a bit 
 easier. Expert mode in Rock Band is about the equality of Hard mode in Guitar Hero III. This opens 
 up the game to a more casual audience, and makes the game accessible to anyone. Also, this goes 
 for the drums as well, is the freestyle moments. here, there are no notes on the screen, and you 
 can just hit any notes you want, giving the song a bit of your own flavor. This is welcomed, and 
 Guitar Hero can learn a lot from this.
  
  Vocals is a little tricky. Unlike karaoke, it's not about reading the lyrics onscreen, its about 
 hitting the right notes at the right time. This makes you feel a lot like a rock star, but is really 
 difficult, and can be embarrassing, when your band keeps failing because their singer's voice hasn't 
 cracked yet. I suggest you pick straws to see who has to do voacls, if your have a 3 or 4 man group.
 
  
  There is a World Tour mode, available offline only, and this is just a long list of songs. Your 
 venue changes every 5 songs, but that's about it. There are a ton of character customizations you 
 can do, but you won't touch them much. Near the later stages, the song list really disintegrates 
 and Fallout Boy destroys your mind. In the end, all world tour comes down to, is trying to unlock 
 more songs for quickplay.
  
  What's really awesome is how your band rocks out on the screen. The character models are sharp, 
 the art style is cool, and the animations are all realistic. It's really great the Harmonix is 
 taking the power of our consoles into consideration. It's nothing like Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, 
 but it is a very nice looking game.
  
  Either by yourself, or with 3 friends, Rock Band is a fantastic game. It is a great party game, 
 and will likely replace karaoke at Filipino parties. Plenty will disagree with my takes on World 
 Tour, and the price of the game, as well as the songlist, but it's my opinion that all those are 
 poor. That aside, plenty will agree with my takes on just how innovative and fun that the game 
 is. If you have 160 bucks to spend, then undoubtedly, you should pick up Rock Band. Many won't. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sg1838
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Like almost everybody that bought early versions of this game, I also had a guitar strummer failure. 
 The new guitar has worked great for the last 2 months, so considering I only had the first guitar 
 for about 2 weeks before it broke, it seems that they fixed it. I haven't had any hardware issues 
 with the drums or mic, though I did tape the drums down to make them more sensitive, and added 
 gum rubber to the tops to give them more spring and quiet them down.
  
  Game play wise, I had only played Guitar Hero once before playing Rock Band, and I wasn't sure 
 I would like it, but figured if I would like a music game, a game where I could play guitar, drums, 
 or sing would be it. And I have to say I really like it. Amazingly, being a drummer I actually 
 enjoy playing the guitar more. Maybe it's because it's new to me. My son prefers drums, which works 
 great because we can tour together. That's where this game really shines... in multiplayer. I don't 
 think I've found a person that doesn't like playing this game as there's something for everybody. 
 My 4 year old daughter can even play by singing on the easy difficulty setting.
  
  My complaints:
  - More DLC - There are some great metal songs, but I want more! I realize it 
 takes time and they'll eventually get there, but it would be nice if more songs were available.
 
  
  - Make DLC available for play just as a song without playing the game. If I'm paying $2 for a song, 
 I'd like to be able to listen to it on my PS3. Sure, it would be nice to be able to download it 
 my iPod, but that's not necessary.
  
  - Huge jump in difficulty from Medium to Hard. This shouldn't be such a monumental jump. I can 
 do 100% on basically every song on Medium. On Hard, I generally hover around 80%, which means I 
 usually get close to failing out once per song.
  
  - Along those same lines, playing a song on Medium doesn't prepare you at all for a song on Hard. 
 A note that was green on Medium might be yellow on Hard. So, all that Medium practice really doesn't 
 transfer to Hard or Expert other than getting you familiar with how to play the game.
  
  - Still can't buy individual instruments. Sure would like to be able to buy another guitar, not 
 to mention potentially buy 3rd party guitars that might be better than the Rock Band offering. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onething77
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is the all-time best rhythm/music game available out there. With surprisingly good graphics 
 and a very good selection of songs, Rock Band succeeds in attracting and hypnotizing anybody, regardless 
 of what their styles of music are. The game itself is easy to play, but yet at the same time the 
 game can also become very challenging and vicious. But who doesn't love a challenge!? Also, don't 
 be afraid to unleash your inner rock-star, because Rock Band is so compelling and realistic that 
 there is no way you may look like an idiot. No matter what your age is, you will fall in love with 
 Rock Band and play it for the years to come. And I also must say that if you treat your Rock Band 
 equipment with reasonable respect, there shouldn't any problems and it will last as long as you 
 rock. Enjoy this game, it is a real treat! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GtKiNg29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  I bought rock band about two weeks ago and i have to say that this game is AWESOME!! The microphone 
 works perfectly and the drums are to die for, but as i've said (and probably the other 1 million 
 people who got this game) , the guitar is bad. Not that it is broken (unlike my GH3 guitar the day 
 i got it) , it is just different -- way different. The strum bar is cool because it doesn't click 
 but is very flimsy and you can't tell how much pressure to put on it to make a note (especially 
 when double-strumming) . The neck has 10 buttons, which is a neat idea, but they are less forgiving 
 (except when using the bottom 5 buttons to play Green Grass & High Tides on Expert =I)
  
  Overall, this game is a must-have, but if you are an extreme guitar heroist, just make sure you 
 find a better guitar to use. If only they had that patch to allow PS3 GH guitars on rock band, 
 am i right? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisanoele
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 10:03 am PT
Review:  I bought this for my husband for Christmas, and it has turned out to be a great game for all our 
 friends and family. Unfortunately, I had to buy a second bundle just to get another guitar so everyone 
 could play, but I was able to sell off the other pieces with ease.
  
  This game was much more appealing to me than guitar hero because you can play guitar, bass, drums, 
 and sing. I'm a singer and guitar player, so it was awesome to be able to do both.
  
  The songs are pretty good with downloads coming almost every week. I highly recommend the Nine 
 Inch Nails pack, outstanding... :)
  
  We did have problems with our first guitar controller, but EA replaced it within a week and we 
 have had no problems since. The drums have a senitivity problem, but I made color foam covers for 
 the pads and now they can be played as hard as you like.
  
  This is a must have game for parties or for friends/family just hanging out.
  
  I didn't give 
 it a perfect 10 due to the guitar and drum issues, but It's worth a 10 for play and song selection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer0914
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is the best game ever!!!! My favorite instrument is the guitar. I've almost got all the 
 songs and have finished the world tour on "easy". You know its no wonder the game is soooooooo 
 fun, because the makers of guitar hero made it. The only 2 bad things about rockband are the drums 
 are to hard. Even on easy the drums are difficult. When I first got it I got Booed off the stage 
 before the Intro could get over. The second bad thing is some of the songs. I mean have you heard 
 Sabotage by the Beastie Boys? I hope you haven't. There is also some other songs that suck to but 
 I won't go into that mess. I highly recommend this spectacular game. I give it a 9.5 out of 10. 
 If do not like this game maybe you just suck at it or maybe your is not srewed on straight, because 
 this is even better than Guitar Hero 1,2, and 3 put together. Keep rocking EA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraHACK
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 15, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  For more than a decade, the music rhythm genre has been either under-represented or kind of ignored 
 by the general gaming audience. Let's not count DDR, seeing as how well, it's DDR. It's its own 
 genre. At any rate, things picked up on the release of Guitar Hero on the PS2 and has, since then, 
 turned into a multi-million dollar genre that has caught the mainstream media's eye. The original 
 team from Guitar Hero, Harmonix Systems, has left its franchise to other developers and has made 
 Rock Band. When announced, Rock Band came off as the most ambitious game in years. The concept: 
 Guitar Hero but with every instrument that makes a band, and the final product hit retail. But 
 at $169,99, was it worth the effort, or does Rock Band become the next Sisqo or Cake?
  
  No music game is a proper music game without a great set of tracks and in that respect, Rock Band 
 delivers in spades. An unbeatable opening set list makes for one of the most pleasant first impressions 
 and the game just keeps delivering from there. From Weezer's "Say It Ain't So" being followed by 
 The Rolling Stones' "Gimme Shelter", Rock Band always brings up a song where you're either stunned 
 or pleased. Granted, not an entire list can be perfect. For every Rush, there's Fall Out Boy, and 
 that's probably where you'll depress and it was over. Then the song ends, and you're back playing 
 Foo Fighters and Red Hot Chili Peppers. Topping at 45 tracks, the original set list is full of 
 stars, but it doesn't end there. 13 bonus tracks are there for your enjoyment, ranging from the 
 obvious additions like Freezepop and Honest Bob and the Factory-to-Dealer-Incentives to the completely 
 oddball additions like Timmy and the Lords of the Underworld. Yeah, from South Park. And that's 
 not even touching the downloadable content that has already surpassed the original set list in 
 number of songs. 
  
  Rock Band is easily comparable to Guitar Hero in how the game is played, which is fair. The game 
 does hail from the same developer, after all. What differs is the instruments used. You still have 
 your guitar, but now there's an added microphone and drum kit. While the guitar still plays the 
 same, the peripheral itself is a lot different. The frets (Keys you press to play the notes) are 
 now built into the fret board as opposed to sticking out from it. The strum bar also is a lot softer 
 when strumming which makes it a lot easier for bass tracks and fast sections. While not as good 
 overall as the Guitar Hero controller, it's still very good for those who don't want to fork out 
 100$ on the opposing game. After the guitar comes the microphone, which is easily the least substantial 
 instrument to play in Rock Band. Don't get me wrong, it works just fine. There's just not much 
 else there besides singing (and occasionally tapping on the microphone as if it were a tambourine) , 
 which is kind of understandable seeing as how it's much lesser of an instrument as opposed to the 
 others. 
  
  Following the previous two is the drum kit, which is so awesome it deserves a paragraph on its 
 own. The drum kit is the reason for the immense box Rock Band comes in (and arguably its steep 
 price) and reasonably so. The drum kit takes about a minute to fully put together and once built 
 it's about the size of a small child and weighs as much as one too. Playing the drums is also very 
 different from playing the other instruments, seeing as how the drums is a lot more dependent on 
 rhythm and how you can time each limb to a separate beat. Only a few people I've shown the game 
 to are able to fully comprehend the kick pedal, which is where the difficulty of playing the drums 
 lie. Apart from having 4 notes to hit, you also have a yellow line that goes across the track, 
 which are the kick pedal notes. Usually they follow a separate beat from regular notes, so hitting 
 them on time can be quite tricky. And speaking of tricky, you'll be playing some very hard songs 
 on drums later on. While going from Easy to Medium difficulty is fairly easy, there's a huge leap 
 going from Medium to Hard, and an even bigger one when going from Hard to Expert. You'll be swearing 
 a lot and without a doubt be frustrated, but once passed that initial barrier, there's nothing 
 more fun than playing the drums. 
  
  And of course, the quintessential feature of Rock Band is its multiplayer mode, which is by far 
 and large the most well accomplished multiplayer mode featured in a music game to date. The Band 
 World Tour is a fantastic replacement to the standard "Go through a linear list of songs" featured 
 in other games. You start off in your hometown and play a few opening gigs here and there. Eventually 
 you start to play at bigger cities and you play at bigger venues and more substantial set lists. 
 It's a ton of fun to play with another friend, despite the fact that this mode is not available 
 online. However, the online functionality is very well implemented with a handful of games modes 
 for you to enjoy with another friend or 3. There's a lack of voice chat (On PS3, I can't speak 
 for 360) which makes selecting a song completely dependant on the party leader and that can turn 
 pretty iffy in seconds. While it rarely happens, you never know when your vocalist or guitarist 
 will leave simply because you picked a song he didn't like. Despite its shortcomings, the online 
 play is still very solid and adds a ton of replayability to a game that already oozes with it.
 
  
  In a genre that's becoming increasingly popular and somewhat saturated, Rock Band stands out like 
 nobody's business as a staple to what the rest should aspire to be. An unbeatable party game and 
 a fantastic single-player game, Rock Band constantly delivers with either it's huge replayability 
 or it's fantastic set of downloadables. Despite its competition, this truly is the next Guitar 
 Hero and there can be nothing but bright things for the series' future.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 12, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  I rented guitar here for a week and decided to buy Rock Band when I returned it. Couldn't be happier 
 with the decision. Both my girlfriend and I play regularly for hours at a time. Haven't done any 
 of the download able content yet, but fully intend to. My decision to get this instead was because 
 it focused more on a multi player experience. Since the GF and I could never settle on who was 
 going to play Guitar Hero, this works out great. If you are thinking about getting the game but 
 just wonder if its worth the $180 its going to cost you, rest assured it is.
  
  A couple things of note though. When they say the guitar is easier than guitar hero they are not 
 kidding, not in the least. Its more challenging in the picking than in the fingering. As a musician 
 for many years now, I can also say that the drum on expert is as close as you can get to playing 
 a real electronic kit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKT100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2008 2:20 pm PT
Review:  Today I'm reviewing a game I personally enjoy playing hours a day (When I have the time) . I've been 
 playing since last Christmas and I have to say that I'm impressed. The gameplay is fluid was water 
 and it ties in perfectly with the notes and the background graphics. The song list is made of many 
 great songs like Dani California by Red Hot Chilli Peppers or Here it Goes Again by OK GO. Plus 
 the game now features nearly 70 something downloadable songs off the PlayStation Store. The game 
 features many different modes of play including Band World Tour and Quickplay. All the modes can 
 be played online except solo tour (which makes sense) and Band World Tour (which doesn't) . The thing 
 that brings it down to a 9.5 instead of getting the ten is because there is no World Tour Online. 
 It would add to the competition online. You could go band vs. band in becoming the best band in 
 the world. This mode could create awesome showdowns as well as many more hours of fun. So that 
 is the reason for the -0.5. Again this TKT101 saying what do want to be reviewed. Until next time, 
 See Yah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: getchahellyeah
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 9, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is extremely addictive. The drums are almost impossible for me on hard and expert modes 
 while the guitar is easy. The game let me know how much I stink at singing and made me quit choir 
 class. The song list is pretty good but could be much better. There is tons of songs you can download 
 for two dollars but with the already expensive game, paying more money for songs seems stupid. 
 I am still waiting for them to be nice like the guitar hero people and release some free tracks. 
 Although fun, the game is expensive and the equipment breaks like the wind. The strum bar on my 
 guitar stopped working and my drum pedal broke in half. I was able to send back both faulty pieces 
 of equipment and got new equipment for free in just a few days. My advice is to wait for Rock Band 
 2 to come out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faToe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The video games Guitar Hero and Rock Band have made it possible for everyone to be a rock star 
 in the comfort of their own home, and this game is another great contribution for both gamers and 
 music lovers!!!
  
  Guitar Hero is a series of music video games released in 2005-2006 worldwide by RedOctane and Activision.
 
  
  Guitar Hero comes with a controller that looks like a guitar and the game itself involves playing 
 the guitar and hitting the right notes in songs that range from "Iron Man" by Black Sabbath to 
 "Fat Lip" by Sum 41.
  
  A game like Guitar Hero helps people get into their body and the physicality of their music.
 
  
  However, what some may view as a flaw in Guitar Hero is that the game only comes with one guitar 
 controller. If you want another controller, you have to go out and buy one which can cost up to 
 $100. It's pricey, but it's a good entertainment system for you and the whole crew. Great way to 
 keep the ensemble going on those boring kick back events with your friends and family.
  
  Rock Band is much like Guitar Hero; however, Rock Band gives you the option to play guitar, bass, 
 drums, or even to sing. On some songs, if you tap the microphone against your hand, you can play 
 it as the tambourine or cowbell.
  
  Rock Band, which was developed by Harmonix and released in 2007, has songs that vary from "Sabotage" 
 by Beastie Boys to "Celebrity Skin" by Hole.
  
  According to the Rock Band Web site and anyone who has played Rock Band, in addition to the 45 
 tracks they have listed on their Web site, Rock Band has 13 songs "ranging from a variety of established 
 bands to up-and-coming artists.." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alfredo_Sauce
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  The first thing I'm a say about this game is it's the sh*t. It is a lot of fun. The multi-player 
 scores a 10 out of 10 in my book. Playing with all of your friends and just having a good time 
 is priceless. And having to hear your friends bad singing voice is also priceless. Every instrument 
 is really fun. You figure the singing is probably the least fun of all. But it's my favorite. The 
 singing is to much fun. The drums is really hard but when you get it down it's a tun of fun. The 
 guitar is fun. It's just like Guitar Hero. It as some difference. Instead of the notes being circles, 
 in Rock Band its squares. Another thing is people say this game, the guitar is a lot easier compared 
 to Guitar Hero. I think it's true but some people I know think its harder. Their probably newbs 
 *cough* Johnny *cough*. The World Band Tour is sick. Going around the world with your friends and 
 playing gigs like real bands. Getting a manager, a van than a bus then a private jet. There's tuns 
 of stuff you get while going on this tour. The only thing they missed is the groupies. If your 
 lonely and you want to play with a group of people they have online. You can go online and play 
 songs with other people around the world. It's pretty sweet. Or if you think your the best at either 
 guitar, drums, or singing you can prove your skills and go against someone in a tug of war. It's 
 similar to the face offs in Guitar Hero. Do better in a song than the opponent the meter will go 
 to your side but do bad obviously the meter will go to their side. There is also a solo tour. Here 
 it really isn't like the world band tour. You just play through a list of songs. At the end you 
 unlock a certain something. I'm not going to tell you, you have to find out yourself. There is 
 a lot of downloads you can get from either the Playstation Store or the Xbox live marketplace. 
 These downloads consist of just basic new songs you can download. This game all and all is great. 
 Theres a solo, multi-player, and online and everything is fun. Great game. Just plain and simple 
 great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STAG-ghost
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. If you are a fan of the Guitar Hero series then you will love this 
 game (even if you dislike the GH series you will most likely like this game) .
  
  Gameplay-
  Highly addictive with more then just the guitar... now you have a really fun drum 
 set and pretty fun singing setup.
  
  Guitar-
  The guitar is really just like GH with both lead and bass guitar.
  
  Drums-
  The drums are 
 super addictive. It takes a while to get your body parts moving at different paces but it is so 
 much fun when you get it down.
  
  Mic-
  The mic is a great add for parties and stuff but just playing it alone is a little boring. You 
 dont know the song? No Problem... they made it so you dont even have to say the words (all you 
 need is the pitch) . If you cant hit the pitch perfect you can go lower to hit it.
  
  Songs-
  The songs are really good and provide a find for everyone. I personally found that I 
 liked more songs on Rock Band then on any of the Guitar Heros.
  
  Quality-
  The quality is very good. Everything seems to be able to take a beating and keep rocking. The drum's 
 kick pad is a little weak though... it is advised that you keep your heel on the kick pad cause 
 if you slam down on the top without holding the pad down it may break as gamespot showed. The guitar 
 I find nicer then the one on GH3. The mic is super realistic and fairly heavy.
  
  Overall-
  A must buy for anyone who likes music and fun party games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mauricio_gun
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 16, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  nothing that i was expecting from a game with this name, an horrible set list, and a horrible sensation 
 of playing, as a professional drummer i could not feel the sensation of playing my drums, it was 
 completely different, i had no hi-hat, no cymbals, i could play perfectly a song but i did not 
 know anything that i was doing, the guitar is the same thing of guitar hero, just play the notes 
 at the correct time, and if you start to speak, not to sing, but just speak the song is the same 
 thing that sing, it's completely useless.
  The on line option have a terrible and the lowest connection that i have ever seen, all i saw was 
 mistakes from both parts and that all was incorrect, proving that this game is the stupidest version 
 of guitar hero that will ever exist
  The creators of this game just need more time to make the idea of rock band go through for the 
 next generation of games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  (? Out of 5) Story: No story here, just some hard rocking bands, hahaha get it, hard rockingah 
 forget it.
  
  (4.5 out of 5) Gameplay: Oh man where to begin. Well as the name of the game implies, you do get 
 to formwella Rock Band. You can be the vocalist with the mic, the drummer, or the guitar or 
 bass player. Where this game really shines is when you are able to get three of your other friends 
 to rock with you at the same time. You can play all by your lonesome in the single player mode, 
 rock with random people online, or play World Tour. The one I would really like to direct my attention 
 to is World Tour mode. You need another player with you to do World Tour mode by the way. In World 
 Tour mode you and your band will travel the land, play songs, get some dough, and most importantly 
 earn fans. It may not sound all that exciting but it is very addicting. The only problem I had 
 with it was that it forces you to go to a higher difficulty every time you reach your limit of 
 fans for the difficulty you were playing in. In can be a real pain in the ARSENAL, especially if 
 you are a drummer. It would have also been nice if you could play World Tour online with your friends, 
 but sadly you can't. You can also create your own character. There are tons of unlockables in the 
 game, which means numerous character customization options. The notes are well in sync with the 
 instruments you play and the vocals are matched up well with the mic too. In the end though Rock 
 Band brings wannabe rockers together and delivers pure gaming goodness! Gameplay would have received 
 a perfect score, but the hardware defects are just enough to stop it. My guitar's orange fret button 
 was on the fritz, and kept holding itself down, it was weird. I ended up sending it in and exchanging 
 it, I'm just hoping that the drums and microphone doesn't mess up after my warranty expires.
  
  (3.5 out of 5) Graphics: Rock Band uses a different style of graphics then Guitar Hero. It makes 
 it look like you are rocking in the past instead of the present or future. I like how the characters 
 on stage react differently to each other, and it makes the game feel even more realistic like when 
 the singer messes with the guitarists and lets them sing with them. There are plenty of character 
 customization options, from your hair to your face to clothes. Although the graphics look good, 
 I can't say it's one of the best looking games on the PS3 so far. Overall the graphics attain the 
 next-gen look, but at the same time it can look sort of last gen. 
  
  (5 out of 5) Sound: Rock Band has one of the strongest song selections by far. I can whole heartily 
 say that the song selection annihilates the 60+ songs in Guitar Hero 3. The game features songs 
 like Highway Star, and Gimme Shelter. What I really liked about the game was the crowd actually 
 sings along with your band, it may not seem much, but its little details like this that make Rock 
 Band special. Rock Band doesn't include as many songs as previous Guitar Hero games, but you can 
 download songs through the Playstation Store to make up for it, and just to let you know, at least 
 one new song is released for download each week! 
  
  Overall: I can easily say that Rock Band is the NEW guitar hero. Harmonix has done an excellent 
 job in supplying us with awesome music based games, and Rock Band is no exception. $170 was worth 
 it, it may have left a HUGE whole in my wallet, but it opened a stronger passion for gaming in 
 my heart, ahhhh man that was corny hahahahaha, sorry about that! :)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 6:17 pm PT
Review:  Rockband delivers ... But for a very expensive price. For those who always wanted a drumstyle or 
 a singstyle guitar hero to play with. then get rockbanc and get 3 other poeple to play with you. 
 Although the solo tour is already lengthy enough, playing with your friends never gets old and 
 thats why this game is a must buy ... but like i said, thats if ya got the cash.
  
  Gamesplay - 10 - Loved Guitar Hero? Then you will worship this game. Even after you aced all songs 
 on expert already, there will be more songs to download every week!
  
  Graphics - 10 - You didnt buy this game to look at all the great designs and artwork ... but yet, 
 they still made everything look good!
  
  Sound - 10 - So many songs, so little time.
  
  value - 10 - Rock out till either your fingers break, your arms fall off, or your voice turns raspy 
 and harsh.
  
  Overall - 10 - buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  It's here! It's Queer Get Used to it!, I AM KIDDING HAHAHAHA, Rock Band... AMAZING, this game is 
 difinetly the next-generation Music and Rythm game or simulation!, this game is amazing compared 
 to Guitar Hero III, I was excited when i got guitar hero, but in Christmas!. WHOA I stopped playing 
 guitar hero III and started playing rockband more!!!, this game is amazing both Solo And Multiplayer!, disappointing 
 though that you cant use guitar hero III controller for the Playstation 3 version, but this game 
 is amazing!, solo is great!, You get to pick as Drums, Guitar, Bass or even Singer!!!! now off to 
 the songs!, if you do not have money because you just bought this game, or you don't have a credit 
 card, oh well your stuck with those songs! eheheh XD, the downloadable content is amazing! compared 
 to Guitar Hero III, NO NICE DOWNLOADABLE CONTENT but it has great songs with it thats whats amazing, I 
 bought 2 songs for this game... since christmas, well ive been playing this game alot! and now off 
 to the multiplayer, AmAzInG!!!!! this game has a great multiplayer, unless you dont have internet 
 and friends hahahaah! then do not bother!, if you have a great Family like a singing mother, a 
 rocking brother and yourself, consider them as friends hahah!, I also do like the new feature where 
 you can dress yourself and create a character 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theycallmeryan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a great game but is it worth your $170? I say yes. Rock Band may not have as good 
 of a solo mode as Guitar Hero 3 but the multiplayer is amazing. In solo you just "tour" around 
 and gain money and new songs, in multiplayer Band World Tour mode you make a band and get things 
 like buses, planes, vans, sound guys, security guards, fans, money, etc. It is also pretty fun 
 to play online with a friend. The only thing that is bad is the fact that you can't play Band World 
 Tour online. The graphics aren't amazing, as you'd expect from a Rythm/Music game. The Downloadable 
 Content is sooooo much better for Rock Band than Guitar Hero 3. Rock Band gets DLC every week on 
 the PS Store 
  
  
  If you have a lot of friends or want to sing or play drums then Rock Band is for you, if you are 
 someone with no friends or someone who wants to just play guitar then get Guitar Hero 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thatguy0130
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 31, 2008 6:46 am PT
Review:  If you haven't heard of this phenomenal game by now surely you must have been living under a rock. 
 With high marks across the board, this is the evolution of music rhythm games. This defines the 
 very genre itself and pushes the bounds of what was once thought of as far as one could go. Taking 
 the stale, been-there-done-that feeling of other competitors attempt at music rhythm games and 
 completely blowing them apart, Rock Band is the definitive rock star experience. This title not 
 only puts you in the role of an up and coming rocker, it puts you there with an entire band! Packed 
 with songs, features, and functionality, this may not be a game for every single person, but it 
 is a must play by all.
  
  Sure one could argue that the game is not graphically glamorous, at least not when you compare 
 it to the clarity of the competition, but looks aren't everything. Harmonix has pulled out all 
 the stops to bring the most authentic looking "live concert" look. Complete with stage dives and 
 crowd join-ins, even special camera attention by the band members, you really feel like you are 
 watching a movie of a concert. The game presents in a more loose feeling as to emphasize the rock 
 experience as apposed to every member mainly just standing still in the same place the entire time. 
 This is especially noticeable in the singer who jumps around on stage and just has a good ol' time. 
 With all the members really showing their enthusiasm in the current song, it is easy to see how 
 this game surpasses what has been the norm for the past years. The variety of characters doesn't 
 hurt either. Instead of having to look at the same three-and-a-half members the entire time, you 
 get a mixture of different people from the games customized character system. It may not be as 
 detailed as you would want, but it is nice to be able to choose what your character looks like, 
 however limited it may be.
  
  The music of Rock Band is another step up. With the way the game works, no longer must you have 
 guitar solo-centric songs. Instead, Rock Band is free to find songs that not only challenge the 
 guitar players, but the drum players and the vocalists as well. Heck I am sure there is even a 
 challenging bass line in there once or twice. The 45 songs that make up the core set list feature 
 a nice blend of genres and eras stretching from the early days of rock right up to the present. 
 Though some songs may only appeal to a niche group, they are all fun to play. Even if you aren't 
 particularly eager to play a certain song, you might find that playing it on drums instead of guitar 
 makes it a lot more bearable and perhaps even fun. There are another 13 bonus songs that are offered 
 for you to play in the bonus venue for free. This includes faithful Harmonix bands such as Freezepop, 
 Bang Camaro, and Honest Bob. 
  
  Along with a well-rounded set list that comes packed on the game, Harmonix has raised the bar on 
 the download side as well. Bringing something new just about every week, they have strived to make 
 this game last through its open ended DLC side. Along with promising full albums to be available, 
 they have worked on at least a dozen songs that are available through the PS Network. Along with 
 the download content side, the online functionality is what you would expect by now including a 
 face off and pro face off mode. These are accented by a band quick play mode where you pick a song 
 and three people can jump in and play it over the internet. These are solid modes and there is 
 no real lag to speak of. It is however discouraging that the games most prominent mode, Band World 
 Tour, is not offered as an online mode. 
  
  Band World Tour is where this title really shines. It recreates the aspect of being the leader 
 of a real band. You and a friend or three form a band and begin a journey to the top. As Bon Scott 
 once said though, "It's a long way to the top, if you wanna rock and roll." This is the case here 
 as well, for you start as a no nothing band playing little tiny hole-in-the-wall venues to a crowd 
 of 50 or so. You play songs or sets of songs and gain fans and stars in the process. The more fans 
 and stars you gain the more venues and songs open up to you along with other opportunities such 
 as obtaining a tour bus or a record contract. Sure you end up playing the same songs A LOT but 
 its fun as crap to play. Plus the whole coming together experience that you have when you and your 
 friends are rocking out really is priceless. Luckily there are plenty of fresh DLC to add into 
 your set lists to keep things somewhat fresh. 
  
  Cut free from the tidings of Activision and Red Octane, Harmonix seems to know exactly what they 
 want and they prove that they can hold their own as a game developer. Aside from the sheer magnitude 
 of the peripheral failures, mine included, this game really has few drawbacks. Sure you could argue 
 for more songs on the disc but that is just picking at air. The game offers exactly what it intends 
 to offer, the complete rock band experience. Since the day it was announced people have been eager 
 to see this baby in action. After seeing it, it is clear who the winner is in the battle of rhythm 
 games and it is also clear that this game has raised the bar for the genre. You would have to be 
 pretty incredible to top what Harmonix has laid frame for. With all that this game does, it deserves 
 the 10 out of 10 from me. It may not be perfect, but my 10 rating isn't for that. A 10 game for 
 me is something "revolutionary" and it is clear that that is exactly what Rock Band is. Paving 
 the way for a greater gaming experience and bringing it one step closer to the "real as real can 
 get!" Keep rockin'!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimmJow23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 1:19 am PT
Review:  I'll admit it. I did NOT get Rock Band on the day of its release. I waited for about two weeks. 
 Since I got the game, I regretted putting it off for that long. Rock Band has different enjoyments 
 for different people. If you like drums, jump on it. Guitar/Bass more your thing, no problem, we 
 got that too. You like to sing? This is the perfect game for you. The best thing about this game 
 is playing with friends or family. Playing alone is fun too. I personally just got a mic stand 
 and play multi play by myself. It's a great party tool. I think it actually improves your real 
 life drumming skills. The game incorporates timing, rhythm, and if you're the lucky singer, you 
 actually have to sing the proper key. In my opinion the track list is great and really shows you 
 what EA is made of. It's even better when you get money and download some tracks for your game. 
 It may not be much right now, but I'm sure the track list will get longer and longer until it eventually 
 hold it on my 80 Gig HD. The game does have differences between difficulties so experts and noobs 
 alike will all make some good music. Overall the game is a great game to have and should be in 
 any gamer's collection. Except for the hefty price tag :| 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jaydeep12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is a superb game, but watch out for the price because I got mine on sale. First of all, 
 Rock Band has drum, a microphone and a guitar/ bass which can all be played either solo or in multiplayer. 
 Rock Band has two main "Story" modes", solo tour and band tour.
  
  Solo tour is where you create a guitarist, lead singer or drummer. From this mode you can unlock 
 songs for the quickplay mode. During each song, you are rated and scored, so the higher your score, 
 the better the rating. You can also customize your rocker here as well. You can combine tattoos, 
 color hair and even buy new guitars, bass, and drums but I am not sure about more microphones. 
 After every song in a city is done, you unlock another city with more songs.
  
  Now, the Band tour mode is a great deal of fun. Everyone signs in with a rocker they made in solo 
 or make one here. In Band tour, you can also unlock songs and instruments and customize your rock 
 star. The only difference is is that you and your partner play together, that means that if your 
 partner sucks badly, Good Luck. Other than that it is incredibly fun. In Band Tour mode, you start 
 in Boston and have to play well at a certain gig to snatch a van to move on to another city.
  
  Rock Band hardware is also amazing. The guitar/ bass is like the one in guitar hero but with 
 a special effects switch which I don't know how to use. The microphone is like a karaoke game where 
 you have to keep the right pitch to do well in a song. The drums are probably the most original. 
 The way you use them is like any other set you would have. On the screen when the notes pass the 
 bar, you just tap the note or press the pedal. But when you try on harder difficulties, the drums 
 become more and more difficult and feel more realistic. So try it on easy first and then change 
 the difficulty. Be careful with the drums because they are durable to a point, same goes for the 
 guitar and the mike.
  
  Rock Band is the perfect multiplayer and music oriented game out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 8:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is so much better than their rivals, Guitar Hero.
  The drums and microphones are soooo much fun to use. There are also tons of things to choose to 
 customize your guy. You could literally spend hours trying to make them look the way you want them 
 too. I... I just can not put into words the fun you can have on this. Its not like guitar hero, 
 and you will see what i mean if you buy it.
  
  BUT...........
  The controllers and drum sets are soo fricken sensitive and break very easily if you hit them too 
 hard. Its like playing on crystal china. 
  I have gone through a total of 5 drum sets, 2 guitars, and 2 mics. That is pitiful. But the return 
 system that they have is amazingly easy..... just tell them it broke, they send you a new one, and 
 send the old one back in the box that they sent to you. but its still not that great. 
  
  Overall, the game has top-of-the-line soundtracks and gameplay, but has terrible hardware problems. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pegarcia
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  Rock Band has one, and important, weak point. It's Hardware. Sometimes, you're pretty sure you 
 did it right, but the "note" becomes red and you missed it. Mainly the guitar (I'm not a very good 
 drummer :oP) . 
  
  But it has a lot of strong points. The sound track is close to perfect, the game mechanics are 
 great, the character building is cool, and it's, by far, the best local multiplayer for PS3.
  
  Of course, the online multiplayer is also cool, but watching your friends that never grabbed 
 a guitar or a drum set before playing as a band in your living room? Priceless.
  
  There is another thing I coudn't get: how the guys from Harmonix had set the difficult for some 
 songs. Some songs are harder to play in the game than in my real guitar! Metallica's Enter Sandman 
 is one of this. 
  
  And with new songs comming, the replay value will increase over and over.
  
  Rock Band is a 
 must have for those who loves Rock'n'Roll! And Keep it rolling! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bruuin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Guitar Hero, Sing Star, Donkey Konga and others like them have all popularized the concept of rhythm 
 games. A group of friends sitting around the television playing different versions of video game 
 karaoke has become almost mainstream (or at least popular enough to merit a spoof on South Park) . 
 Despite the fact that everything in Rock Band has been done before (to some degree) , the melding 
 of all these different musical elements is something that as a project seems overwhelming and as 
 an execution is more than completely satisfying. In fact, it's outright addictive. Rock band is 
 essentially four different games, so for simplicity's sake we'll deal with them as such.
  
  "Guitar Hero IV"
  Straight up front, what rock band does for it's instruments are things that 
 have already been done for the most part. When you pick up the guitar, you're essentially playing 
 Guitar Hero. Everything from colour coded frets to the tilt activated power ups are here and on 
 it's own, the guitar end of the game doesn't offer anything seriously fresh that gamers won't already 
 be familiar with. Bonus scores for perfect (or sometimes just good) solo's are a nice touch, but 
 if you've already played guitar hero you'll find that it's more of the same. Even some of the tracks 
 in the game are mirrored between Rock Band and Guitar Hero. What does help the Guitar end of Rock 
 Band is the peripheral itself. The instrument mimics a Fender Stratocaster. Actually owning one, 
 this is a for better and worse proposition, but the end results are pretty good. The unit itself 
 is much bigger than comparable peripherals so it never feels cramped. Not for children of people 
 with small hands to despair however. There are a set of mirroring frets further down the neck that 
 are designed for solos, but work just as well for those who can't quite find the range with their 
 fingers to play on the more traditional fret placements. Perhaps the funniest thing I found was 
 when my hand accidentally brushed up against the start & select buttons. I've had similar issues 
 with the equivalent tone and volume knobs on my strat so I had a good laugh when these authenticities 
 were mimicked. Overall, the guitar portion of Rock Band is a nicely polished, though considerably 
 less difficult version of Guitar Hero III.
  
  Sing Star with a Band
  Karaoke itself is a concept that isn't all that new. I remember neighbors with big old karaoke 
 boxes with laser discs when I was a kid. It didn't fascinate me then and it's only mildly amusing 
 now. That's probably because of the fact that most people I know who enjoy it aren't all that spectacular. 
 Neither am I, but that's besides the point. Where peripheral rhythm games can mask whether someone 
 can play guitar or not, there's no hiding it if someone is outright tone deaf and translates that 
 vocally. Just because I can't sing, it doesn't mean I can't hear when someone else is way off. 
 Nonetheless, Rock Band comes geared with a microphone and you get to try it out one way or another. 
 The truth is that the track selection in rock band is so good that you'll likely find a bunch of 
 songs that you wouldn't mind giving a go. On harder difficulty levels you'll need a friend who 
 can actually hit tones with 100% accuracy (or be able to do it yourself) . I was shocked when a 
 friend of mine was able to finish a couple of songs on expert, while being distracted by the rest 
 of us senselessly wailing and banging away. You're going to want a pretty fair sized TV however, 
 if you plan or rocking out with the rest of the band. The multiplayer screen tucks the vocals up 
 at the top, and the words come small, fast and furious. Unless you already know the track, it can 
 get a little tricky to follow along.
  
  Donkey Konga goes Pro!
  The things that fascinated me the most when Rock Band was announced and then released where the 
 drums. As a kid, they were an instrument that I never tried to tackle so this game ended up being 
 a kind of make good opportunity. There's not much like it on the market to begin with, but I'd 
 imagine that outside of karaoke games, this is the closest you'll get to playing a real instrument 
 via video games. Drums, kicker, real sticks. It all works. It took me about a half hour to find 
 a height for the kit I was comfortable with and I started out being incredibly uncoordinated with 
 my foot, but the process of getting better is as fun as really nailing a song. For me, the price 
 of admission would be worth it for the drums alone! Playing through the individual career mode 
 from the easiest to more difficult settings acts as a nice transition to ease the player into coordination 
 with both hands and feet. By the time you hit the expert levels you'll be the next best thing to 
 a fully qualified drummer. With my friends as a test subject, the drums were easily the most sought 
 after peripheral of the bunch. They're really hard to share!
  
  The REAL Rock Band
  Despite the accolades that Rock Band could receive based on it's individual instruments and peripherals, 
 the area when these elements are brought together as a collective is what makes Rock Band a standout 
 title. The cooperative energies of four individuals performing in sync to create something entirely 
 new and the joys of sitting around and really nailing a tune with 3 other friends is something 
 that can't really be done justice by the written word. One botched drum fill, vocal phrase or guitar 
 solo and you may find the whole band wanting to give it another whirl in pursuit of ultimate rock 
 band perfection. The track list in Rock Band is simply outstanding. There's something for almost 
 every rock generation packaged into the disc straight out of the box. The list is a little on the 
 short side, but the quality is outstanding with the bulk of the tracks being the original artists 
 performances. As a side bonus, the downloadable content is actually worth the price of admission! 
 It's not cheap if you go on a spending frenzy, but there are certainly a few tracks that you'll 
 want to take a look at.
  
  Out of the box, rock band ends up being quite a deal. On the surface the $200 cdn. price tag is 
 a little steep. But the equivalent cost for the experience for 3 similar games would rival what 
 you get out of Rock Band so it does indeed end up being pretty decent value. While the game does 
 have some silly multiplayer battles and elements of the like that don't quite seem to fit in, and 
 the track list out of the box feels a bit short despite the quality (or perhaps because I was so 
 keen to rip right through all of them) , it's a game that just glows with polish. It's greatest 
 success however has nothing to do with production values, rip-roaring guitar solo's or track selection. 
 Rock Band succeeds in capturing the spirit of music and what it is to play in a band. It's a shared 
 spotlight where everyone has a chance to shine individually but when they shine together the rewards 
 are increased exponentially. and meld to create something new and truly unique. For music lovers 
 and video game fans, Rock Band is THE title to be experienced.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Creeker31
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  With almost the same concept as Guitar Hero, Rock Band shows that even drunk 37 year-olds can play 
 an instrument that they've never played before.
  Even without Red Octane at its side, Harmonix pitched in a gem of a game. It is almost the exact 
 same game as Guitar Hero; that isn't a bad thing. The exceptions of course are the instruments, 
 story, and songs. 
  One major thing Rock Band did that Guitar Hero lacks, full customization. You can literally make 
 a rock god to look exactly like yourself. If you choose, you could make a slim Ozzy Osbourne or 
 a fat Eric Clapton.
  Overall, this game will fulfill every gaming need you have. If you have a system that supports 
 this game, save 170 bucks and buy this game. If you don't, Harmonix steal your XBOX. No, I'm just 
 joking. They give you cake (Portal reference.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stevie19
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  THis game takes the concepts of Guitar Hero and Singstar to the next level by adding the drums 
 and bass guitar then combining all elements and it does it very well. The Drums are quite fun and 
 despite some complaints about the guitar and drums breaking down, mine both seem to be fairly solid. 
 
  
  This game is wicked fun with a bunch of people. Even for people who arent really "gamers". If you 
 like rock/alternative type music, then this game up your alley. If you actually play the real guitar 
 or drums, you may think its a bit lame. Im just a hacker on the guitar and have never played real 
 drums before so it was fun for me. There are 4 levels of difficulty. Hard and Expert seem to be 
 quite challenging.
  
  The song list is decent. songs range from the 1960's to 2000's. I have unlocked all songs playing 
 through solo mode on the drums (only on medium so far) and downloaded about 8 from the PSN which 
 are a tad bit overpriced. Im hoping that A LOT more songs become available in the near future. 
 They really need to improve on the DLC selection. 
  
  If you can afford the hefty price tag for this set then I say go buy it. If download content improves, 
 the game will last you a very long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king23_
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  With their departure from the Guitar Hero series, Harmonix took the chance to make the game they've 
 always wanted to make. Instead of replicating just one part of the band, they decided to bring 
 friends together to make music as a Rock Band. Rock Band will cost you $170 for 1 guitar, 1 drum 
 set, 1 microphone, and the game, but it was definatley worth the money. If you've ever played a 
 guitar hero game, Rock Band will feel very similar.
  
  The main mode in Rock Band is World tour which lets 2-4 players create characters and form a band. 
 You try to become one of the greatest Rock Bands ever as you earn stars, fans, and money. You play 
 gigs across the World at about 50 different venues! The only problem with BWT is that it forces 
 you to go to higher difficultys pretty quickly, which sucks if you are just learning an insrument. 
 This mode is a blast and will have you and your friends playing for a long time, but the problem 
 is Rock Band isn't very fun with only 1 player. The game has solo tours which allow you to play 
 setlists on drums, guitar, and microphone. Solo Tour is okay but nothing amazing. As of now BWT 
 mode can't go online ,so if you don't have anyone else to play with, Rock Band probably isn't for 
 you.
  
  The Drums have 4 pads that you hit and one bass pedal. The drums are very fun, and usually what 
 everyone wants to play. I f you can play the drums in real life you can probably play the ones 
 in Rock Band (or vice versa) that's how realistic playing the drums in Rock Band is. The one thing 
 I didn't like about the drums was that it was very hard. It would be okay but since Band World 
 Tour mode forces you to increase difficuly if you want to earn fans, you have to learn to play 
 the Drums on Hard and Expert.
  
  Guitar is pretty much exactly like Guitar Hero, but a little easier to make it more accessible 
 to people who don't play guitar hero much. However, if you do play Guitar Hero frequenly then you 
 will find playing Guitar in Rock Band is pretty easy (unless your playing Green Grass and High 
 Tides) . The only bad thing is the new guitar peripheral isn't the best. The solo buttons and sounds 
 changers are cool additions, but the guitar seems to make notes hard to hit, and if you're playing 
 on PS3 then you can't use the Guitar Hero 3 controller unless they put out a patch sometime soon.
 
  
  Playing Bass is actually pretty fun. The bassist usually isn't the star of the show, but it can 
 still be fun. The bassist holds the band together in some of the more difficult songs by using 
 star power to save band members who have failed. The bassist usually never fails because none of 
 the songs are very challenging on bass, so if you have a member of the band who isn't very good, 
 bass would be the perfect instrument for them.
  
  In Vocals, words come across the screen along with the pitches you are suppose to sing. The difficulty 
 of singing feels just right, as easy is very easy and expert is challenging but not too hard. If 
 anyone is brave enough to sing in front of everyone else, then this is the spot for them in the 
 Band.
  
  The songs in Rock Band are all pretty good for the most part, and with new songs coming out for 
 download in the PlayStation store every week for around $2, you will always have new songs to play.
 
  
  Gameplay: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 9 
  Value: 9
  Tilt: 8
  
  Score: 8.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wdave92
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  Where do i get started. Well Rock Band was announced when Harmonix could not produce any new games 
 under the Guitar Hero name so instead of fighting for it against activision they decided to make 
 an ambitious project, one that will set out to redefine party games.
  
  Gameplay-The gameplay consists of 4 people in a "Band" that you can form each person has the choice 
 of a Microphone, Drum set, or Either Guitar or base. The gameplay is simple if you have played any 
 guitar hero game this will be easy to catch on but the singing draws more from the Singstar series. 
 This sort of gameplay is highly addictive and Well Fun. :)
  
  Soundtrack-The list of songs wont dissapoint anyone whos a fan of rock because of the variety and 
 if theres a song thats not there wait a while downloadable song are available. 
  
  Graphics-Actually this is one area that i was surprised in that actually was amazing compared to 
 GHII The subtle details around the stage add a level of depth like having your bands name in the 
 background. (Kiss like Actually) 
  
  Sound-Well other then being a DTS game the crowd interaction when playing through a chorus just 
 adds a WoW factor to the mix. 
  
  Packaging- Well you have the special edition package wich includes 1 guitar a drum set and a microphone 
 for the oh so little price of 170$ USD But hey if you dont have a car well Good luck on trying 
 to get this bad ass box home, I could bet you that a small compact wont be able to fit this game 
 on the back seats or the trunk as of that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theidcguy
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band just beats the crap outta Guitar Hero, Rock band comes with a Guitar, drums, and a microphone!, 
 Guitar Hero on the other hand comes with just a guitar.... now guitar hero is good but u know wat 
 that game gets boring.... Rock Band on the other hand just gets better as u go along! solo tour 
 while its not like band world tour its still awesome unlocking areas, gaining fans, cash etc... 
 and Band world tour (mulitplayer) is awesome as well its kinda like solo tour but u get to see 
 the city ur going to and u get to name ur band and play with ur friends to gain fans, cash, unlock 
 areas, a bus to tour the country ur band is from, a jet to tour all around the world! i forgot 
 to mention that u get to create ur own character change his or her looks or instrument ( if u have 
 a guitarist/bassist u can buy a bass or guitar, drummers can buy cooler drums) the guitar has two 
 frets the ones like guitar heros and one thats closer and aimed for ppl with smaller fingers. the 
 graphics on this game r ssssssoooooo much better than GH everything in the graphical section of 
 RB looks realer than GH! 
  
  if ur looking for a game that doesnt really start getting boring and like GH then u should get 
 RB even though its $170 i dont own the game i borrowed the game from a friend XD but let me tell 
 u its so great i'm saving up for it! so like i said if u like GH then get RB 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangoslayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  I cannot believe im saying this, but, Guitar Hero has been beaten. You just cannot beat a game 
 like rock band. I mean how can GH possibly stand a chance against RB? What does GH come with? A 
 guitar. What does RB come with? A guitar, drums, AND a microphone. Now, now i understand that RB's 
 price is much more that GH's but still, and extra 70$ for drums and a microphone AND just a better 
 game? Also, RB has much more songs and in my opinion, they're bettter.
  
  Overall Sum Up:
  
  RB is the best virtual game out there in my opinion and it KILLS Guitar 
 Hero I, II, AND III. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtafreakBman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  i was timid at first to spend the $170 for the game, but it turned out to be one of the greatest 
 gaming investments i have ever made. Tons of fun, totally addicting, and great multiplayer action. 
 a must have for fans of guitar hero or other music games. amazing replay value and i can see myself 
 playing this game for many days and hours yet to come. guitar is a little easy but for those that 
 have mastered the guitar, drums will not be such a breeze. drumming is extremely challenging on 
 hard and expert difficulties and singing takes some getting used to. NO better game for sitting 
 around with friends or family and just having a straight up great time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanMillerCEO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 7, 2008 11:14 am PT
Review:  Allow me to preface this review by saying that I have been playing the drums for the better part 
 of 20 years, playing professionally for at least ten of those years, and this game is what I have 
 dreamed of for all of them. Of course, I came into the experience with some seriously low expectations 
 since this is the first incarnation of a readily available pretend-drum kit, but I thought it would 
 be fun nonetheless.
  
  Let me say that my expectations were completely blown away. Not just by the peripherals (which 
 may not be exactly right, but they are pretty damn effective,) but also the sheer joy that playing 
 this game gives me both alone, and with a group of friends. 
  This game somehow completely recaptures that memory recall sector of your brain, and provides a 
 fantastic glimpse of the process of becoming a musician. I always thought that those seemingly 
 endless hours spent practicing a song in the solitude of my warehouse were unhappy memories, suited 
 for instant repression, and never to be focused on again. But as I sit in front of the tube, hammering 
 away at the Neil Peart imposter's version of Tom Sawyer, it turns out that I really loved those 
 solitary hours of practice! Not only that, but how helpful this game would have been - and undoubtedly 
 will be in the future - to figuring out exactly what (insert drummer here) is actually playing 
 in (insert song here.)
  
  Just like the real-life counterpart it attempts to emulate, Rock Band practice serves as a polishing 
 tool for the full-group performance. There were few things more humiliating in my life than showing 
 up to full-band rehearsal and having the no-talent, equipmentless singer tell me that I missed 
 a drum fill. In similar fashion, no-one wants to call over the guys, and watch them shake their 
 heads as you fail out in the middle of Ride the Lightning, so you log your hours, pay your dues, 
 and show up for the gig ready to roll.
  
  Not since the glory days of playing in front of thousands of real people have I felt such sheer 
 joy as I did the first time my friends and I nailed Rush in trio. Look, I know this isn't real 
 - but it some ways it's better. There are no 3 hour load in times, no travelling, no late night 
 performances in front of 3 angry bar-goers. Some of those things, much like practicing, are actually 
 better memories than they seem on the surface, but the unfortunate truth is this: for all but the 
 most dedicated, talented, ambitious and lucky of musicians, the demands of life relegate our hobby 
 to at least the back-burner. Keeping a drum kit set up in the living room is a tricky proposition, 
 and finding neighbors who agree to such an arrangement can be even more taxing. 
  But Rock Band allows you to get out the aggression, and feel a portion of the pleasure that playing 
 a real drum kit does. When tasked to a common goal, its amazing how much time and effort a group 
 of guys will put into getting the song right. It's just simply the best multi-player experience 
 I've ever had on a game console.
  
  On to some questions. Why is there not a free-form option in the game? Al of the necessary programming 
 seems to be there, so why can't we program and 'write' our own songs? Granted, the instruments 
 would have to have limited, assigned button functions, but it would be great nonetheless. On the 
 topic, when will they make this whole game customizable? I'd absolutely love to ability to put 
 in your own songs, and map out the instrument segments myself. But that might be a bit much to 
 ask, because the DLC is certainly a huge selling point of this 'system.'
  
  Kudos to Harmonix, and MTV Games for faithfully sticking to their promise of DLC. And while we 
 all can mount an argument or two about which songs and artists they 'ought' to be offering, I know 
 I feel like whatever song I'm hoping for - they'll get to it eventually. The sky seems to be the 
 limit in DLC, and it's just another fantastic element of this game. 
  
  I honestly think that while my background in music certainly sways my bias, it's not necessary 
 to enjoy Rock Band. Certainly not on the mic or the guitar. I'll say this much though: if you can 
 knock out Metallica on this fake plastic drum kit, then you can do it live. Unlike the GH Guitar 
 system, drums on Expert level is an accurate simulation of playing electronic drums. I see a lot 
 of online postings saying : "So what, you can play fake drums... get a life." I hate to break this 
 to you, but this drum kit is basically a Roland Electronic kit, you know, the same one that the 
 Yahoo in your church band is playing Sunday morning. The only difference is that Coheed and Cambria 
 is much more challenging to play than anything Carmen has to offer. 
  
  I was skeptical about the game; I was skeptical about the equipment; I was skeptical about the 
 song selection; and I was skeptical about the DLC. I was wrong on all fronts. This is absolutely 
 the most complete multi-player game package ever offered, and it is well worth the $170 it cost 
 me. I look forward to the open market peripherals, and maybe some programmable and customizable 
 content in future versions of the basic game, but it's an almost perfect product at launch.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderOWNS
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 6, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  STORY/SINGLE PLAYER
  There is no real story to this game, it's just like guitar hero, you get gigs, and you earn money 
 depending on how well you do. However something seperates this game from GH. In Rock Band, there 
 is full customization for your character. There are so many different outfits and instruments that 
 you can select for your character. Score - 9.0
  
  GRAHICS
  Even though graphics aren't extremely important in Rock Band/Guitar Hero, they can still make an 
 impact on the game. In Rock Band, the graphics are solid, not amazing but good enough. The fret 
 colors on the screen look very bright and lively but the band does not look as good. However, you're 
 never looking at them anyway because you're so concentrated on playing. Score - 8.0
  
  ONLINE/MULTPLAYER
  This game online is great. You can start your own band with for friends and 
 either start a world tour or just quick play. However, playing this game with your friends locally 
 is where it's at. Something magical happens when you play with your friends and it's really a great 
 feeling. Score - 9.0
  
  So now here comes the ultimate question: Is Rock Band worth 170 dollars? Well this is what you 
 have to consider. Rock band costs around the same price as 3 normal games. Ask yourself this: do 
 I want one great game or do I want to buy three other games? If you have the money, you should 
 try this game out. Final Score - 9.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 10:17 pm PT
Review:  i mean i thought that rock band was 
  a cheap rip off of singstar and guitar hero
  
  but wow dang who knew it was that fun
  
  i love rock band
  hands down so sorry if this sounds 
 fanboyish
  
  ok ahem
  rock band was yet another surprize for me
  i never liked the color things and u hit it when it tells u 2
  but its actually very inovative 
 and it drags u in when u start up
  
  it pulled me into the song as soon as i picked up my guitar
  bawww wwwoooowwWH WAH WAHHH
  and 
 so on
  
  NOT A SINGLE PLAYER.
  if your a lonely kid whos friends
  dont come over that much or dosent have anyone 
  to play with get guitar hero its better as a 
 single then rock band
  
  if u do have friends or family to play with
  GET IT even if your wallet crys from looking at the price
  its worth it trust me 
  i didnt 
 think it was worth 
  infact i was very skeptic about the whole thing
  but ohhhhhhhhhhhh my god 
  
  ok so to sum it up
  its worth the price
  
  get friends to 
 play with
  
  and rock on
  
  -chainblade
  
  p. s i just got it today
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 1:16 pm PT
Review:  This game there is really just one word to describe wow. Visually this game looks amazing facial 
 expressions customization is awesome. The song list was pretty solid some however i could of lived 
 without though. Fortunately there is DLC and alot of it for this game, first day had Metallica 
 for Gods sake. Now it is safe to assume this game really shines with 4 other dudes to play with 
 the guitar is fun like GH games, drums offer a nice new challenge and are just as engaging, and 
 the mic is fun because ya get a good laugh out of it. The online is ok has worked pretty good for 
 me so far. in the end if you have the mula for this game and liked past GH games go buy this its 
 AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blue_Ghost12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  So like millions of others, I was hooked on Guitar Hero. That was, until Rock Band came out. Anyone 
 who says that GH beats RB is dead wrong for many reasons. Aside from the simple fact that you can 
 play MORE than a guitar is a big plus in Rock Band. The multiplayer features are unrivaled and 
 make for a highly entertaining time with you and your buddies. What I hear the most when people 
 compare this game to GH is the interface and how the buttons are not the same. Well, duh, they're 
 not going to make it just like Guitar Hero's. The Rock Band guitar does away with the annoying 
 "clickclickclick" and revamps the controls with an easy feel that doesn't involve flicking the 
 strummer back and forth in furious motions. The buttons are slightly different, but I, being an 
 experienced GH player, found it easy to adjust. The guitar mode doesn't feel as challenging in 
 this game, but that's ok, because I play it to have fun with other people, not to try and beat 
 the insane high score on a certain song. The drumming is also very fun, but requires some coordination 
 to be able to hit the foot pedal and bang away on the quad pads on the top at the same time or 
 in difficult rythm patterns. Vocals also make the game, allowing you to hear your friends really 
 sing for the first time and feel cool about it. The customization features are also incredible, 
 allowing you to FINALLY design a custom rocker of your own, adding tons of different clothing and 
 hairstyles. The song database is also huge, with more being added online all the time. If you don't 
 own a PS3 or Xbox 360, I would buy the system just to get this game. WARNING: Do not buy it for 
 the PS2; you will be throwing 150 bucks away. All in all, Rock Band is an amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unreal1212
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 1, 2008 12:22 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a games for anyone who likes to rock out, play with others, or just to have fun. What 
 else is there to say? It's awsome. It's revloutionary!!! there is only 2 main problems with this 
 game. - some of your instruments will get damaged ( if you get a FREE repair from EA tht is not 
 a problem.....) - single player is no fun. Play it with friends!
  
  DON'T LOOK AT THE PRICE TAG!!!!!!!!! It's woth it.
  
  Plus = I hope the next RB will have songs 
 that came out in 2007
  
  Dipite all the problems, Rock Band is fun and intivitive and the problems seem like an ant. The 
 gameplay and the fun makes this game earn a 10/10.
  
  A 10.................. out of ten.....................
  
  ROCK BAND  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IceDefenseGod
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  I've only played guitar and only on Hard, so this could be considered a limited review. I also 
 have online, which is a big plus. I have all the songs, and my top three are "Here it Goes Again" 
 by OK Go, "Electric Version" by The New Pornographers, and "Seven" by VAGIANT.
  
  Now for the serious review...
  Keep in mind that this is only from the guitar aspect:
  Gameplay: 
 The game plays very similarly to Guitar Hero, including the motion sensivity, everything down to 
 the color and order of the frets. It also appears a considerable amount easier than Guitar Hero, 
 and has (in my opinion) some better songs, although III has some of the same songs as RB. You can 
 play alone and traverse the game as in the single player of Guitar Hero, unlockig new songs, and 
 even customizing your char. There is also an array of crazy instruments in the Rock Shop, including 
 my instrument of personal choice, the Bat Wing. The notes scroll down from the top of the screen, 
 and you strum along while holding the frets. Nothing new (which isn't always a bad thing) for guitar. 
 You can either play local or online multiplayer with up to four players: Lead Guitar, Bass Guitar, 
 Drummer, and Vocalist. As of now, the only method of purchasing the game or controllers for it 
 is to get the entire $170 bundle, so there's no four-player local play until Feb. or March.
  
  Audio: For the most part, the sound track is very well done, including songs both more recent 
 and classics. There is also a well done difficulty gap: it starts out much easier than it ends. 
 You can also purchase songs on the store (as the loading screens with remind you) to expand your 
 library, but I highly suggest unlocking all of the initial songs prior to this.
  
  Graphics: At least on the PS3 version (and I imagine 360) , the "next-gen-ness" is very appearant. 
 During songs, singers and occassionaly guitarists will sing along, as always, but lip sync the 
 actual lyrics. Yes, completely different for each song.
  
  My Tilt: High. Any fan of rock and/ or rhythm games with the spare cash should definetly check 
 this out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireroof1616
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  BEFORE I START this review i just want to say thank you game spot for having theese awsome launch 
 centers
  and you are the best site for games you have every game
  thats awsome alrighty lets stay focosed here this game compared to gh 2or3 is very likely to show 
 up theese days but all that guitar hero has are you know GUITARS!!
  
  now rock band has a mikerophone a drum set a gutare and somthing else but i dont remember.
  
 
  this game gets you in the feal of starting your own rockband. im only 12 and i can get into it 
 realy easly..
  
  so do yourselves a faver and get the game that rocks!! ROCK BAND!!!!
  
  
  go game spot go go  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rd1858
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is really very good except for a few things. I just got it for Christmas and played it 
 with my sister and had a great time. There was one main glitch (I'm assuming) that screwed me over 
 big time. Somehow in multiplayer the leader of the band switched from the singer to the drummer 
 which was a pain in the ass and I couldn't change it back. Having a band leader that has to play 
 in every song is a pain too. I also wish that the foot pedal could be turned off if the person 
 didnt want to use it. They also make you play a lot of the same songs in the sets that you don't 
 get to pick. Other than that the game is really fun and I can see myself playing it for years to 
 come. This game combines a lot of good things and makes on the best, if not the best, multiplayer 
 game around. All I can say is rock out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Well, I thought Rock Band was going to be a fun game for my 13 year old. (got it today for Christmas) . 
 This reminds me alot of the first SSX, bought it for the kid, tried it just to appease him and 
 it blew my mind. Ok so I love NIN, Nirvana, STP so that helps, but I never thought this would be 
 so fun. We only had time for a few songs before heading out to eat and running to all the family's 
 houses today. But in that amount of time I have seen enough to know this is a fantastic game. I'm 
 34, and I am very scared that poor COD4 and Halo 3 will be gathering dust for a longggggggggggggg 
 time. The guitar, drums, microphone all work great, it's a ton of fun with 3 or 4 people, have'nt 
 tried it all alone, but if you have several people to play with go buy this today if you can. It's 
 so easy to get over the fact you may suck at singing like I do because it's so much fun and you'll 
 quickly lose yourself in your "band". Great Great Game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakeTW
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 21, 2007 9:34 pm PT
Review:  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise 
  Amazing game amzazing!!!!!!!! only problem is the guitar is very cheap am sending it back for a 
 new one. otherwise  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TOTAL_DEFENSE_0
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  I never thought that there would come a day when I would turn my back on my beloved friend Guitar 
 Hero. However, it might be the fact that Activision took it over and has turned it into a very 
 big suck fest whose only point is to send a billion notes your way with no way of actually being 
 able to beat it (Through the Fire and Flames and The Devil Went Down To Georgia, i'm talking to 
 you) . Or it may be the fact that Rock Band is one of the best games ever. I think it has more to 
 do with the latter. Oh Rock Band. Words cannot being to describe what I feel for you. Everything 
 about you is just so amazing. Alright lets start this off shall we? Rock Band is awesome, we've 
 establish that. But why? Well for starters, you can play 4 parts now. Guitar is awesome. Vocals 
 are awesome. Drums are Godly. Bass is pretty cool too (alot better than how it is in Guitar Hero) . 
 Now for those of you who love to break their fingers playing impossibly hard guitar parts, Rock 
 Band may not be for you. The difficulty on Rock Band is set so that, in my opinion, you are always 
 having a good time while playing it and never getting frustrated over how hard the song is. Another 
 thing I love about this game, is the idea of teamwork. You are no longer thinking about just yourself. 
 You're thinking about everyone in the band. If the drums are dying, activate your Star Power (yes 
 i know its called Overdrive mode but i refuse to call it that. It's star power) and save them. 
 And if they did in fact fail, revive them quickly so that the band doesn't fail the song. There 
 actually is a lot of strategy to the game. If the guitar solo is coming up and the guitarist has 
 no star power, the vocalist might want to activate his so that the guitar survives even though 
 the vocals have no notes during the part. Basically, its find the best way to keep your band mates 
 alive to the end of the song. This game, also, is definitely NOT Guitar Hero. The main difference: 
 The Band World Tour mode. Your Band and you will go from city to city (after unlocking Vans, Buses 
 and eventually planes) playing gigs to gain fans. And you better hope you don't lose cuz if you 
 do, you will lose fans. And if you lose fans, some gigs won't let you play them. Also, when you 
 first are starting up your band, you get to create your characters. You can change their physical 
 appearance quite a bit and give them attitudes that will affect the way they act on stage. The 
 money you make during the world tour goes towards buying them outfits, instruments and hairstyles. 
 It is all very cool. And on the plus side, you can use the characters you've created during Quick 
 Play mode. Another nice thing about the Band World tour mode is that downloadable tracks play into 
 it as well. This makes it so that you have a wider variety of songs to play through your progression. 
 However, this also means that you have to watch out as when you choose Random Setlist, they might 
 give you say, I don't know Blackened by Metallica. So you just gotta be sure you know what you're 
 in for. Also, during the world tour mode, your manager often gives you certain deals: get five 
 stars on each song in the setlist and recieve 4 times the money, fail and you get nothing. Play 
 a benefit gig-gain double the fans, earn no money. All these things play into the Band World Tour 
 mode to make it an experience like no other.
  Now, lets talk about the tracks in the game. There 58 tracks in total, 45 liscenced tracks and 
 13 bonus tracks. However, on top of this you can get downloadable tracks (there are currently about 
 20 downloadble tracks available with new ones being added each week) . The tracks are all really 
 fun to play for the most part which is a good thing. Another nice thing is that they are somewhat 
 varried so to appeal to everyone. However, for the most part, all the songs are relatively good. 
 Now gameplay wise, Rock Band has some features that Guitar Hero doesnt. For one, when in star power 
 mode, you can continue picking up star power to keep it going for as long as possible. Also, if 
 there a part where all the instruments can pick up start power, you get a Unison bonus which gives 
 all the parts double the normal. On the guitar side, during solos, you can see how well you are 
 doing with a percentage showing up overhead letting you know. You can tell when a solo comes cuz 
 the board turns blue. Also during these solos, if you play on the bottom set of frets on the guitar, 
 you dont have to strum (very cool) . On bass, you get a bass grove going for keeping up a note streak 
 which give you more points. On drums, you are giving a chance to activate star power every couple 
 of seconds by a section where you can hit anything and as a last note hit green. On vocals its 
 kinda the same for star power, only you yell anything into the mic. Also, vocals have tambourine 
 parts where you lightly tap on the mic as notes come at you. And as if all that wasn't enough, 
 Rock Band still has an extensive online mode. You can get a couple of people on one console (vocals 
 and guitar) and then invite friends to join you from other consoles. Don't have any friends with 
 rock band, search for people willing to join your game. It all works very well. The band leader 
 has control over what songs are being played until the band decides to disband. However, downloadable 
 tracks only work online if everyone has them. That means no sharing sadly. Rock Band also has an 
 extensive leaderboards system, letting you see Band scores, individual careers score, single songs 
 by band score or individual instrument score. It is all very good. Rock Band also has several multiplayer 
 modes apart from the norm like a face off type of mode where two people face off with the same 
 instrument and things like that. Also, if you dont have anyone to start a band with, Rock Band 
 has solo career. Its not at all as extensive as the Band World Tour (a lot more like a Guitar Hero 
 progression) but it is still very fun. Needless to say Rock Band is incredibly fun when you've 
 got 4 people playing but it is still fun even if you are alone, especially if you are doing drums. 
 Now all those paragraphs and not one bad thing mentioned about Rock Band. So what could that one 
 bad thing be? The Hardware. Im not saying that the Guitar is bad (best guitar ever) or the drums 
 or the mic. Its just that they have this annoying tendency to break. My guitar suffered from a 
 bad strum bar and a failing top green fret for a while before it finally started working correctly 
 again. The mic also has a somewhat wierd tendency to work well during some songs, and then for 
 no reason, spaz out on a random song. It can be quite frustrating as it does hinder the gameplay 
 quite a bit. I haven't had any problems with the drums at all, but i'm aware that there are plently 
 of people who have had problems. Now, this really isn't Rock Band's fault but still, you would 
 expect the instruments it comes with to be reliable. Another bad thing for PS3 GH3 owners (like 
 myself) the Les Paul guitar is not currently compatible. Harmonix does have a patch ready to fix 
 this but unfortunately, Activision is being greedy and not letting them release it. Other than 
 the hardware problems, I have no complaints with Rock Band. You wanted to know what was going to 
 be GOTY? there it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Thats_Bull
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I will start out with saying that if you have not yet played this game, you are missing out. Badly. 
 Everything about it is fun, and the multiplayer is nothing short of fantastic. The great setlist 
 and sweet peripherals make this a must buy for pretty much anybody.
  
  After having played GH III and Rock Band, there are a bunch of things that stand out in Rock Band 
 that give it the obvious edge over GH III. One of these is the spectacular multiplayer that truly 
 makes you feel like you are playing in a band, and near perfectly incorporates novice players. 
 Another point that will please the general public, but not hardcore GH players is the much easier 
 difficulty, or should I say, actually playable difficulty of Rock Band. Guitar Hero is simply overly 
 difficult, and Rock Band is perfect, challenging, and has good growth.
  
  The online play of Rock Band on the PS3 is very fun, although it could be better. If you don't 
 have anybody to have come over and play with, it may not be worth it to buy the entire bundle at 
 this point. But even if you have just one buddy, you can both have a blast for hours on end. The 
 game can be very addicting as you try to get through the Band World Tour mode, and reach the top.
 
  
  The drum peripheral of this game is by far the most fun and challenging to play, and if you buy 
 the bundle, you will want to keep playing through the night and into the morning. And if you get 
 a full band together, it is nothing short of magic.
  
  Overall this is most certainly the best music / harmony game on the market, and one that will keep 
 you playing even after you have mastered one instrument. It gets a 10 out of 10 from me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofycoco
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 14, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  This game is AWSOME. I has a great collection of songs, it has nice customization, and the drums 
 are great. The songs are mixed and have a great variety of hits, and you can boy like 30 more on 
 the Playstation Store. The clothes, skin, and physic are good and really let you express the wannabe 
 rocker you are. Despite all of the good things in the game it has its very strong flaws. The instruments 
 that come with the game are mostly broken or defective. I went to a friends house to pay it and 
 the microphone did not listen to me, I had to sing like DADADADADADA and it gave me a hundred percent. 
 After that it worked fine, still we were worried. I went to another friend's house and his guitar 
 did not work properly and we failed every song because of that flaw.
  The game is good, but it has some defective pieces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nandito3555
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  Sorry GHIII fans, stop complaining that's the truth. 
  
  The gameplay is an improved GH experience. With vocals and drums added. The song lineup is different 
 to the GH lineups. I feel sorry cause is less metal and more classic rock (except the sH*t band 
 Fall Out Boy, damn emo posers) and it's definitely more party oriented. Less insanely impossible 
 riffs and solos and more fun with friends that haven't played rhythm games in the past. 
  The graphics are better. More detailed and believable character models, better more "human" animations 
 and lightning effects. You can create your character and band. 
  Band World tour is great, but you probably heard of it enough.
  RockBand is just a better and 
 improved experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigisDAwinner
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2007 8:20 pm PT
Review:  by far the most addictive game i have ever played. so much fun, especially with other players. 
 the drums are awesome. i havent had hardware problems like others, and i play the drums on expert 
 . i give em hell. song list could be a little better but they really surprised me when they got 
 Flyleaf. GREAT BAND!!!! guitar is a little easier to play than guitar hero, the notes come much 
 slower. definitely worth the money if you can have some people for multiplayer. guitar hero cant 
 compare if you ask me. you just never get bored. just wish i didnt have to wait til january for 
 a new guitar 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjamaster62
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 4, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is one of those games that could have been the ultimate fun experience, but falls a little 
 short. The game itself is nearly flawless. Very cool song selection, awesome customization options, 
 really fun gameplay, and lots more. Playing the drums is probably one of the funnest video game 
 experiences I've had in a long time. This game takes the relatively simple concept of Guitar Hero 
 and totally expands it. It really shines when you have 3 or 4 people all jamming to the same song. 
 The graphics are pretty good, and nearly all the songs are original recordings. The HD lag is pretty 
 much nonexistent. There isnt much I can say about the game that is negative. But, the hardware 
 that came with the bundle is absolute crap. I woulda scored the game higher if it werent for the 
 poor quality peripherals. Straight outta the box, my drum kit was faulty. The green drum is very 
 unresponsive, and only registers hits about half the time, and thats not even the worst part. Im 
 pretty sure that they made the guitar controller out of cardboard and cheese. After about fifteen 
 minutes of play, the strum bar barely works at all. It almost never registers downstrokes, and 
 the upstrokes are spotty too. I have read a lot about this problem on different forums, and it 
 seems like it is pretty widespread. The mic works pretty well, although there is a slight delay 
 between what you say and what you hear, and this can throw you off sometimes. The crazy thing is, 
 even with all the broken hardware, we still had a great time with this game. EA has been really 
 cool about replacing the faulty controllers. I called them up and they agreed to ship me new ones 
 pretty much no questions asked, and they assured me that all the problems have been corrected with 
 the new hardware. So hopefully when these new controllers arrive, I will have even more fun with 
 the game. All in all, the game is absolutely worth playing, it will provide hours and hours of 
 fun for you and your family and friends, just make sure that all your controllers work perfectly 
 before the 60 day warranty runs out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: me2u2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  The Rock Band bundle is everything I expected it to be and then some. My wife and I are new to 
 the world of PS3 and even newer at rhythm style games. We both have no experience with the GH series 
 games but really wanted to give RB a try. After completing the tutorial mode we downloaded three 
 of the expansion packs which appears to have unlocked many of the songs.
  
  There a few words that I can find to describe what it was like to start a world tour with my wife, 
 but after listening to my wife try to sing through 'Ride The Lightning' it took hours to get to 
 sleep... we kept breaking out in laughter. Seriously. We were doubled over laughter... too much 
 fun!
  
  Luckily, we managed to avoid the problems that some people have reported with their bundles. I 
 love the new Strat controller and the drums and mic work great.
  
  We're going to be playing this game for quite some time and I highly recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrAzED_MOFO
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 7:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is fun if you like to drum because i dout the guitar will work for long it broke on the 
 second night i had it. For online is just basic nothing amazing about it. If you played guitar 
 hero and are on expert on it this game will be easy for you on guitar. For singing you dont really 
 sing you just talk pretty much. The drums is new though and im not used to it im only on hard and 
 i would say the drums is a fun experience. Overall this game is fun if you like drums cause if 
 you like guitar this game will piss you off with its cheap guitar. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mellomr
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 28, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This review will be easy as there is not much to go over.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  Always a plus to have friends play along.
  
  Who doesn't like to bang the skins!?
  
  An 
 improved expierence over Guitar Hero series.
  
  A decent selection of songs covering all generes.
  
  Great online play and the ability to go 
 head to head with any instrument.
  
  The ability to customize your avatar to your own personal liking.
  
  
  THE BAD:
  
  A 
 bit of a learning curve for those not familiar with keeping a beat.
  
  Playing the songs through career mode can get repetative until more of the songs are unlocked.
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 27, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying Rock Band definitely lives up to the hype and is a good value for the 
 price. For $169 you get 1 wireless guitar, 1 wired mic, and one wired drum kit. Included are 58 
 total songs to play through and when I first got this game home, myself and my friend set up a 
 band, Wreck'd 'Em Fire, and commenced playing for 6 1/2 hrs straight (I typically only play a game 
 for 2 hrs at a time) . 
  
  The track listing in the game is pretty solid. I definitely enjoyed it more than GH3's track listing. 
 Even the songs I'm not crazy about were still fun to play. Boston's Foreplay/Longtime is easily 
 one of the most fun to play and some tracks I've never heard like the Outlaws song were fun to 
 play through. There are 58 total songs in the game and each week there will be downloadable content 
 which is looking to greatly enhance the life of this game. Get bored with the existing songs, download 
 a bunch more.
  
  After getting used to the guitar, I'd have to say I like it more than the GH3 Les paul with the 
 exception of the strum bar. The strum bar doesn't click like the GH3 one and doesn't feel as responsive. 
 Other than that, the Rock Band Strat is superior in almost way. The fret buttons are next to each 
 other with no spacing like a real guitar and have a nice feel to them. The whammy feels nice and 
 there are some extra buttons on the neck for soloing. At first I thought it was just a gimmick 
 but then I realized when using the solo fret buttons, you don't need to strum. This can help greatly 
 on expert mode with some of the harder songs. There is also a 5-way selector switch to turn on/off 
 sound effects. This is just a gimmick but it's kind of cool if you're good at a song and feel like 
 messing around.
  
  The drums are easily the most fun to play. They consist of 4 drum pads and a kick pedal. The difficulty 
 settings make the drums easy to pick up but keep them challenging as your foot will be fighting 
 with your arms to become independent for a while. 
  
  The vocals are actually pretty enjoyable to play. You sing the words on screen like it's karaoke 
 and you try to match the pitch of the song using an arrow on screen. It works very well and is 
 really fun if you get a whole band playing with you.
  
  The bass is really just a toned down guitar layout and is alright I suppose. I wish there were 
 some more bass oriented songs to keep it more interesting but bass is really just an instrument 
 to keep a 4th person busy.
  
  Online: I was a bit disappointed with the online play when I realized that you can't have an entire 
 band compete against another band online. You can only do single instrument duels, meaning one 
 guitarist can battle another guitarist. A nice online feature though is that people online can 
 form a band and cooperatively play. 
  
  Overall, Rock Band is a phenomenal game. It's highly addicting, has a great track listing with 
 promise of many more songs to come, great hardware, and pretty good online play. My biggest gripe 
 I have with the game is that I was under the impression that a band could compete against a band, 
 which it cannot. Other than that, there's little to complain about with the game. I highly recommend 
 this game as it's easy for anyone to pick up and just challenging enough to keep experts busy for 
 a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MChammertime05
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  This is the best multi-player game I have ever played. If you're in a room full of people and want 
 a game to play, then this is the perfect game for it. There are drums, bass, guitar, and vocals. 
 You really feel like a band when you play this game. Plus, there is many awesome songs along with 
 A LOT of downloadable content. Even if you're by yourself, this is still a very fun game. You can 
 go online and do band quickplay. The only problem with this game is the defective instruments, 
 but luckily EA actually has a good warranty program where they ship you a new one free of charge. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shivercraft
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2007 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I love the gameplay for this title, if you have played the Guitar Hero games, you know what expect 
 for a user interface and can pretty much guess how the drumkit will work, however if you have played 
 the Guitar Hero games, you better make sure you keep your GH guitar handy, the one they sell you 
 here is crap-tacular!
  
  I can't say enough how much the gameplay is spot on, (I wrote a previous review that stated otherwise, 
 only to find out I, my friend, and the store all had faulty bundled guitars) , but the guitar you 
 get with the $170 purchase is very, VERY poorly made and the strum bar WILL break after a couple 
 of really intense sessions, however the game is compatible with the GH guitars, so if you have 
 one laying around.......
  
  The drums are great, and will actually transfer over to real world drumming skills...... so keep 
 at them.
  
  The game gets a solid 10/10
  
  The bundle that you HAVE to buy gets a 4/10 for selling you a POS guitar. A standard mic, and a 
 great drum kit for $170. If you want to just get the drum kit, in Feb they are releasing it with 
 the game for $80 so you might want to save your money if you can.
  
  Overall: 6/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band by Harmonix and MTV is truly a masterpiece and and instant classic. Their honestly is 
 too much to say about this game, I'm not going to describe it all, just list it.
  
  Overall
  -Amazing Track List
  -Amazing Graphics
  -Amazing Gameplay
  -Truly a Perfect Game
 
  
  Single Player
  -Drums are such a fun, new idea
  -Guitar never gets old, and is still a blast
  -Microphone is 10x better than that old shower 
 head
  
  Multiplayer
  -Online and Offline are both built perfectly
  -Online Network is great, never lags, and easy to find a game quick
  -When playing online, more 
 than 1 person can play from the same system
  -Really captures you in the game, and you'll think your actually playing
  
  Rock Band is a 
 must have for everyone. Whether you have a PS3 or 360, it is a must have for all gamers, and will 
 bring you hours of enjoyment for you and all your friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band is a great experience and it is almost as good as GH but... It is a very easy game compared 
 to GH. The Gutiar is very easy to play the drums are also easy and singing doesn't need much singing 
 skill you just basicly say the lyrics and you'll get it right. The songs are great but few and 
 it's really fun to play with your buddies and online amazing fun. If you want to try this type 
 of game buy GH 1 first because it's cheap and has better songs and if you like that get gh 2 + 
 3 then maybe try rock band if you have money left :) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koobinacho
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  Great but poor guitar quality and compatibilty spoil it for PS3. To drop $170 and the guitar be 
 weak and mine breaking on the 2nd night. Then the fact that there is no compatibility from other 
 peripherals for the PS3. No guitars available to play 4 players until Feb 4th. I wish Sony would 
 step in and make an update or require these game companies make peripherals to a standard that 
 does not put ps3 consumers on the raw end of the deal. Things like this has to be losing them business 
 to The Game is great though and I hope to see some quality gear and music to follow. There is a 
 lot of oppurtunity here and I would like to see a RB forum to vote for music 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  MTV and Harmonix have got a winner! 
  
  Ever since release of this phenomenal game, College roommates, High School buddies, and families... 
 Have been trying to set aside enough money for this baby! The original pricing of this bundle, 
 which includes the Drum Set, Electric/Bass guitar, and the microphone or vocals for about $180, 
 but is now $170. If you are planning on getting the PS3 version, it would be wise to have a 80gb 
 PS3, because it has 4 USB slots while the cheaper 40gb has only 2. Each instrument uses up a USB 
 slot... so unless you want to be playing only two instruments at a time, upgrade! 
  
  The Guitar in Rock Band is exactly like the Guitar Hero controller, but seems a bit lighter. The 
 guitar comes as a Fender Stratocaster, and all of the colors are on the side of the guitar instead 
 of on the buttons themselves and the clicking has been taking out of the strumming. Another great 
 thing about this guitar is an actual feel for the whammy bar! It is almost like a real guitar. 
 You may also adjust the way your guitar sounds and play higher notes at the bottom of the guitar 
 (comes in handy for solos) . The vocals can only be used when a sixaxis and the controller are synced. 
 The vocals are surprisingly fun, and matches just about every tone spoke into the mic. the microphone 
 is also used as a tambourine in songs by The Rolling Stones, David Bowie, etc.
  
  Probably the most hyped instrument in this $170 bundle is the Drums. what more is there to say? 
 It is pretty much exactly like playing the Rock Band guitar with drum sticks! Don't think thats 
 all there is to it... when you thrown in the foot pedal things can get a little more complicated. 
 the drums are my favorite part, fun to play, and the most challenging. 
  
  There truly are some great bands on the playlist including: Metallica, The Rolling Stones, The 
 Strokes, David Bowie, Sound Garden, Nine Inch Nails, Weezer, Nirvana, and so much more. A total 
 of 58 songs are availiable to unlock in game, but if that doesn't satisfy your needs you can always 
 buy song packs off the Playstation Network.
  
  Customization on Rock Band is far more advanced then its counterparts! Besides be able to pick 
 out clothes and hair styles, and wear makeup, you can even pick how your guy plays, Rock, Metal, 
 Goth, or Punk. The customization is so detailed i had a friend who made an almost identical twin. 
 If your really creative you may have some fun making celebrities or rock stars. I have already 
 made Rambo! 
  
  WARNING! some assembly required! the whole bundle comes in this great big package full of boxes, 
 inside of boxes, inside of more boxes. The Drums are about the only thing you need to put together. 
 This game has also been having some problems with things breaking like the pedal or strummer. So 
 unless you really want to sing or play drums, then Guitar Hero is a safer bet if your worried about 
 breaking it. 
  
  Overall this is a great buy! You can't go wrong! With so much to unlock and countless hours of 
 trying to beat a song on expert with your band. Just be prepared that is you play this you can't 
 Un-play it... =P
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykojason
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Rock Band blows Guitar Hero out of the water when it comes to playing with friends. Rock Band's 
 got a great setlist that is fun to play unlike some of the songs found in Guitar Hero. 
  
  The good thing about Rock Band is that you will have fun for hours with friends as you all pretend 
 to be rockstars and fight with eachother about who's not fake-performing on par with everyone else. 
 This shows that the game does a great job of emersing you into the rock band world. The drums are 
 a great new addition to rythm games and are really fun to play. With all of the hairstyles, different 
 clothes, and accessories, character customization is easy. Band world tour works great too. Going 
 to new venues and performing different setlists and surprise setlists are great. Downloadable content 
 in the future will keep you and your friends playing this game for a long time. 
  
  The only bad thing about Rock Band is, playing solo. It's just not as fun wailing on your fake 
 guitar if there's not a fake drummer, and fake singer next to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pacrone
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I loved guitar Hero. And I loved GH II even more, but GHIII left me feeling cheated. There were 
 no huge innovations added and the set lists left something to be desired. I have a feeling Harmonix 
 left because Activision was satisfied with theIf it ain't broke, don't fix itapproach to 
 the series. 
  
  Rock Band adds so much to the genre that it's a bit overwhelming, but in a good way. The core of 
 the game is co-op. It really takes a band of friends to get the most out of it. That's not to say 
 playing the Solo career isn't fun too. The introduction of the drums make playing through the career 
 a fun challenge. This is by far the only instrument that will help you on the road to being a real 
 drummer. During my fifth play through of" Say it Ain't So"I found myself hitting the drum line 
 out of memory more than because of the Note Bar. 
  
  The guitar portion is familiar fair to anyone who has played a GH game. The difference between 
 the two is the level of difficulty. I usually play GH on med or hard. But RB was a breeze on med, 
 getting 99% on most songs so I've moved up to hard from now on. 
  
  The singing portion of the game is it's weakest link. I fancy myself a pretty good singer, but 
 I found myself a slave to exact pitch and notes with no room for improvisation.
  
  That being said, this is the closest you'll get to being in a real Rock Band, minus the groupies 
 and money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpriego76
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 7:15 am PT
Review:  I have to admit that when I spent the $170 to pay for this game I was a little nervous. Games are 
 getting more expensive by the minute and the sad thing is thatt, as the price tag goes up, the 
 game's quality goes down. It's sad that old games that only cost a couple of bucks 5 years ago 
 give more playability than today's "mega-productions". When I popped the game the first time I 
 was praying that I would not regret buying it (like GH 3) . 
  Fortunately, I was not dissapointed. This game is great. It brings back what is missing from GH 
 3: FUN GAMEPLAY. All this without giving you arthiritis. This game actually makes people want to 
 play - whether it's a hardcore gamer or a beginner. I actually had my wife playing with me for 
 3 hours, AND SHE HATES VIDEOGAMES! This game truly makes you feel like you are in a rock band! 
 When you are giving a good performance, it's exciting to hear the people sing along with you. The 
 game also encourages teamwork - it offers the other players the chance to save their teammates 
 when they have failed the song. In a world, when today's video games only encourage people to kill, 
 hate, or be competitive, this game can finally bring friends and family back together and get a 
 little taste of what Rock Stars feel when they are on stage. It's just great.
  
  I do, however, have some complaints:
  The pedal on the drumset feels cheap. I used to be a drummer 
 and I can tell you, this feels nothing like a real drum pedal. The spring is too strong and if 
 you're not careful and not lift your foot right away or press hard against it when you hit a note, 
 the pedal will bounce and make hit double notes. My advice: play with no shoes so you can get a 
 better feel for the pedal and have more control.
  
  Also on the drums, I wish they would have colored the pads all the way and not just the rims. when 
 you are on hard mode and get your colors confused, you have to actually look at the pads to figure 
 out which color is which, making you miss even more notes until you figure things out again. having 
 the pads colored all the way would help you glance at them without having to take your eyes off 
 the screen. 
  
  The other complain is the framerates on the actual concert. Altough the notes flow through the 
 screen flawlessly, when you look at the concert behind them you can tell the game has some framerate 
 issues, but nothing to worry about, as the only thing you really need a smooth framerate is on 
 the notes, and this game delivers.
  
  Overall, this is one of the greatest games I have played, and one that will actually make me want 
 to keep playing for years to come and not trade in or sell in a month. If you can spend the $170, 
 do it. Even though is a steep price, it's still a great value considering you are getting the game 
 and 4 peripherals. GH 3, for $100, gives you only a crappy guitar that is not even backwards compatible. 
 The TRUE kings of music simulation games, Harmonix, are back and better than ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nellek16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  Ok, I originally pre-ordered for Xbox 360, then saw the PS3 version would have a wireless guitar, 
 found an 80gb PS3 a month ago for $425, and bought GH3 for PS3 so I would have two guitars..... NOT! 
 Despite all the positive previews saying other guitars would be compatible, the Xbox 360 version 
 does suport this, but the PS3 does not. How are they even selling the individual game if someone 
 has no way of playing it!? I can't believe this was released without being mentioned, and feel 
 Harmonix slapped it's fans a bit by keeping it under wraps. I'm also really dissappointed by all 
 the ranting reviews making such light of the matter. For those of us that drop the $ for the whole 
 band experience and getting 4 friends invovled at once, it really blows to find out that it's not 
 only not possible, but that it could be until February (When supposedly individual units will be 
 sold) to get the whole bad together in one room unless you have another buddy luck enough to have 
 gotten a copy. The RB guitar is also not compatible with GH3, so I can't even do co-op on there 
 either. REALLY wishing I had known these issues before purchase and just stuck with the 360 version, 
 despite the wires.
  
  I would've loved to give it a 9.5, but I have to give it a 7.5 for not doing a better job at support 
 true 4 player play on the PS3, especially since it's possible on Xbox and this "slight" issue was 
 not mentioned prior to release. Dinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkfire6247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  When you are setting up this game, you are just at the first step of a very joyful experience. 
 If you have 3-4 people in on this game its just loads of fun. A few of my friends all got together 
 launch day, and we rocked till we were sore. 
  
  This game just felt right, not what I could say for GH3. Harmonix is heart and soul behind games 
 like these, each release just feels perfect. This game steps it up a notch and brings even more 
 fun than guitar hero EVER brought to the living room.
  
  The peripherals all have their likeness to them. Each were done great. The drums are... well drums. 
 I've always wanted to learn to play them, well now I have an enjoyable tutor. The guitar is an 
 exciting upgrade to the well-known guitar hero gibson guitar. The fender statocaster just feels 
 great, although it takes a quick getting used to, any guitar hero fan or vet will come to love 
 it. The mic is another great add-on for the shower-singing buddy of yours. The whole set-up together 
 just spells FUN. It's a blast to have everyone together enjoying one game.
  
  The downloadable content is definantly another plus. I am really thankful for how well Harmonix 
 and MTV (i know MTV) did with this game. They really pulled through and released a hit that is 
 surely to take rhythm games to the next level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Having owned and played all the Guitar Hero games, and being a rock drummer in a real band when 
 I was a lad, I can say that Rock Band delivers the best music/puzzle/party game of the bunch.
 
  
  The variety of instruments is nice. Well, there is really only one extra instrument this time around, 
 drums, but some people may find their voice to be another. Not me, I can't sing at all.
  
  The graphics and sound are great here, as well as the overall presentation. I really like how the 
 footage in the background while you play looks like its on film. The mechanics are the same as 
 far as the guitar goes, but the drums were a little more difficult to deal with than I thought. 
 This is mostly because I am an oddball lefty drummer, and I only wish I could move the drum pads 
 to better suit me.
  
  I love the list of songs available from out of the box, and the new downloadable songs are cool, 
 and as far as I know, they are already available at release?!?! This could add lots of life to 
 this fun game.
  
  The different modes of play also make this a really fun game, and it can be challenging as you 
 try the Hard and Expert settings. Overall, I am very happy with Rock Band. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerpower1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2007 8:02 am PT
Review:  Rock Band is just AWESOME. The band world tour is incredibily fun and rocking out with your friends 
 is just a great experience. Multiplayer is very smooth and is also very fun... Drums are very fun 
 to play... I select drums in my career and it's very very exciting. Also it has a lot of my favorite 
 songs.... and lots of downloadble content (although I haven't downloaded any I heard there was lots 
 of content to be downloaded this week...) I could stay here and talk a lot more about this game.... but 
 I'm gonna go play it..
  
  Bottom Line : Rock Band is the must-buy of the year and WILL beat Guitar Hero III in sales by the 
 end of the year (that's if Harmonix starts making more bundles... I mean come-on they have EA by 
 their side and they are millionaires start making more bundles) [ I'm reffering to that a lot of 
 my friends couldn't get the game just because "there weren't any more bundles") It still a good 
 game anyway (correction an incredibly awesome game) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
