-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Saints Row 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/saintsrow2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Satisfying combat.
 Tons of variety.
 Zombie Uprising is awesome.
 Co-op mode is a blast.
 You can throw people 20 feet.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Friendly AI is frustratingly stupid.
 Multiplayer is forgettable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 14, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.3, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 965 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Volition Inc.
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Oct 14, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Saints Row 2 is crass, immature, and really fun. 

  When the original Saints Row came out two years ago, it served to placate fans until Grand Theft 
 Auto made its next-generation debut. Saints Row's deviant destruction didn't push the boundaries 
 of what to expect from a free-roaming urban assault game, but it did provide an enjoyable outlet 
 for consequence-free chaos while never taking itself too seriously. Since then, Grand Theft Auto 
 IV has injected a dose of maturity into its typical sandbox fare, removing many of its outlandish 
 behaviors to create a more grounded portrayal of the gangster lifestyle. Saints Row 2 is not concerned 
 with growing up. It is a morality-free alternative to GTAIV, an unremorseful descent into mindless 
 mayhem. The lack of any major advancement in gameplay or storytelling may elicit a few flashes 
 of deja vu, but the unrepentant joy of terrorizing this humble metropolis makes this a viable palate-cleanser 
 for anyone willing to embrace the role of amoral dirtbag.  

           There is some serious fun to be had pedestrian-tossing in Stilwater.      

  The story 
 begins in a jail hospital, where you've been in a coma ever since a gigantic explosion at the end 
 of the first Saints Row nearly ended your criminal actions permanently. After easily escaping from 
 this lightly guarded compound, you set off to recruit more people to your gang and retake the city 
 of Stilwater. The overarching story is derivative and not easily relatable, but there are some 
 interesting episodes contained within. The Brotherhood missions in particular are quite dark, documenting 
 a tale of vengeance that is sickly satisfying. After putting nuclear waste in their leader's tattoo 
 ink, you find yourself in a constant battle of one-upmanship. Deaths are taken lightly, propelling 
 you to even more outrageous behavior, but it fits within the context of this over-the-top gameworld. 
 The story never reaches beyond the barbaric needs of its protagonist, but the missions do contain 
 a few worthwhile cinematic payoffs.  

  While you may not be able to affect the outcome of your story, you can design your conqueror in 
 whatever image you desire. The character creation tool is quite extensive. You can drastically 
 change the weight and age of your character, pick from four different races, mold facial features 
 in whatever manner you desire, and even choose if you want a male or female protagonist. With only 
 six different voices to choose from, it can be difficult to accurately match one to whatever look 
 you happen upon, but it's a small price to pay for the wealth of creative options. You can visit 
 a plastic surgeon at any time to tweak your features, but the process is so in-depth, it's easier 
 just to choose a look at the beginning and stay with it.  

  The missions are predominantly of the drive-and-shoot variety that has become commonplace in the 
 genre. Though there are three different gangs opposing you, as well as various law enforcement 
 agencies, the only difference between them are the colors they wear and the scumbags who lead them. 
 The majority of missions boil down to raiding a building and killing everyone who moves. While 
 these excursions are usually entertaining, taking place in a variety of locations against increasingly 
 ridiculous odds, the repetition of the actions is undeniable. Some objectives do provide an opportunity 
 to do something a little different, though. For instance, when asked to rob a bank, you find out 
 your prize is not a vault of money, but an even more valuable hostage. This leads to a strong detour 
 in both the story and gameplay, and serves to keep things fresh. And since most missions have a 
 midway checkpoint, you'll rarely have to start at the very beginning if you make a mistake.  

 
           Remember: you are creating your own character. Choose wisely.      

  Fortunately, the tight controls keep the missions thrilling, even when they exhibit the same objectives. 
 Combat feels especially gratifying in Saints Row 2. Targeting people is quick and precise, so it's 
 easy to hit someone in the body part of your choosing or whip around to nail an attacker who sneaked 
 up behind you. Without a lock-on ability, the firefights are fast and frantic, relying on your 
 quick fingers to mow down the opposition. The lack of any sort of cover mechanic is disappointing, 
 but its absence places the emphasis on aggression. Though your melee attacks are fairly limited, 
 you do have one extremely handy move in your repertoire. You can grab enemies and use them as a 
 human shield if fights are getting too hectic and just toss them away when you're done. The exaggerated 
 physics here are hilarious, letting you hurl people 20 feet in the air, watching their rag-doll 
 bodies wildly overreact to every collision.  

  Another reason the missions are fun throughout is the unrestrained freedom in how you can complete 
 them. Enemies can be killed at any time, using any weapon in your arsenal. For instance, the bosses 
 in the game are all just normal human beings. You can choose to pepper them with your pistol if 
 you choose, slowly witling down their life bar as you carefully dodge their attacks. Or you can 
 just ignore typical video game logic and kill them with a few glorious shots from your rocket launcher. 
 This freedom extends to every element in the game, letting you mow down enemies in whatever manner 
 you see fit. Saints Row 2 fully embraces its sandbox moniker, letting you carve your own path of 
 destruction without any arbitrary strings tying you down.     

   

  Aside from the main missions, there are a bevy of side quests to take part in. These are much more 
 original than the standard missions, so it's easy to get distracted by these for a while and forget 
 about the story. These activities are where Saints Row 2 completely ignores reality and just lets 
 you have some ridiculous fun. Trail Blazer is probably the most chaotic. Here, you'll ride an ATV 
 wearing a flaming, fireproof suit. You get a time bonus for lighting cars and people on fire, so 
 you just set out to cause as much destruction as possible. There's little challenge here (who would 
 oppose a man wearing a flame-drenched suit?) , but lighting the world on fire is utterly satisfying. 
 There are a few other tasks that arent as fun, but overall, the minigames in Saints Row 2 are 
 excellent and imaginative additions that go a long way toward extending your gameplay.  

           How come zombies are always so well dressed?      

  The best diversion is the terrifying 
 zombie uprising. You can access this on the big-screen TV in any of your cribs, and it provides 
 the some of the most exciting moments in Saints Row 2. As opposed to an emulation of a 2D arcade 
 game from years past, this is a 3D adventure to save your soul from bloodsucking zombies. It takes 
 place in the dilapidated hotel that serves as your headquarters, and you have to mow down wave 
 after wave of these undead creatures. With a limited number of guns and melee weapons that break 
 after a few hits, you'll have to constantly run around to evade the threat of these relentless 
 demons. The slow-moving zombies may not seem too scary at first, but as more fill the screen, this 
 becomes an intense and oftentimes exhilarating experience. Being surrounded by a group of zombies 
 as you try to push them away to resurrect your fallen pals is an awesome divergence from the typical 
 inner city mayhem.  

  If killing zombies alone sounds too frightening, you can play through Saints Row 2 with a friend. 
 The co-op is extremely well implemented here. You can hop in or out at any time ,and there aren't 
 even any chains tethering you to each other. The entire city is open to your crime-wave whims. 
 You can partake in missions and minigames together, or, if you're not feeling very cooperative, 
 one person can tackle missions while the other drives aimlessly around town buying gas stations. 
 There is a little bit of lag and some problems with cars and pedestrians popping in directly in 
 front of you, but the experience of teaming up with a friend makes these slight hiccups easy to 
 ignore. Just make sure you have an understanding with your cooperative pal; one person's violent 
 actions will set cops loose on both players, so it's easy to ruin your buddy's fun if you set the 
 police on him while he's peacefully trying to spray-paint walls. Regardless of your friend's penchant 
 for attracting unwanted attention, it's preferable to the atrocious friendly AI you have to put 
 up with. These morons get stuck on doors and benches, can't figure out how to get in your car, 
 and lag far behind you in firefights. Teaming up with a friend makes the already great campaign 
 even better.  

  Competitive multiplayer isn't quite as engaging as the cooperative portions, but it does provide 
 some excitement in brief bursts. The main mode here is Strong Arm, a team-based affair that pits 
 people in a variety of events. You'll randomly be assigned to many of the activities found in the 
 campaign mode and you have a few minutes to best the other team before you move on to another event. 
 The racing and capture-the-flag variants are fairly standard, but there are unique events that 
 add some life to these matches. Insurance Fraud is quite chaotic. Here, each team tries to get 
 into the most horrific car accident. The best way to play defense is to simply shoot them dead, 
 so it's a matter of quickly getting hit by cars before you're unceremoniously dispatched by your 
 competitors. Strong Arm also utilizes the spray paint mechanic in a novel way. If you successful 
 tag a wall while everyone else is worried about killing each other, you grant bonuses to your team 
 such as more health or causing smoke to pour out of your enemies, making them easier to see. The 
 only other mode is deathmatch, which is just too hectic to offer long-term appeal.  

           That car is about to create a huge explosion.      

  The visuals in Saints Row are 
 far from cutting-edge, but at least the experience is smooth both online and off. The frame rate 
 is steady throughout, even in the most frantic firefights. There are also no load times when you 
 enter buildings or drive to a new area, which keeps the game moving at a brisk pace. The physics 
 are as over-the-top as the activities you'll compete in. Characters fly around as if they're on 
 the moon, and they flop about like a fish out of water long after you've killed them. Unfortunately, 
 the radio stations that provide the background music throughout your quest are quite limited. With 
 only a handful of stations, you'll be hearing the same songs over and over again. To make matters 
 worse, there aren't any talk stations, so a part of the comedic appeal is lost. At least the dying 
 screams of your countless victims rings true.  

  Saints Row 2 may not offer a sizable leap in the sandbox genre, but that doesn't diminish its fun. 
 From beginning to end, this is one of the most fun urban chaos games out there. The controls are 
 so tight and the combat so satisfying, you'll frequently find yourself getting distracted from 
 the campaign as you cause terror all over the city. With great cooperative integration, tons of 
 unique activities, and a super cool zombie mode, Saints Row 2 will keep you happily creating havoc 
 for a long time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (86 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: AdamJT89
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 19, 2009 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Okay, let's get started. Saint's Row has average graphics and physics, which can be very annoying, 
 but that's made up for with the 
  great storyline, the large variety of weapons, like rifles, bombs, and pistols, and lets not forget 
 the mini-guns and rocket-launchers.
  Okay, the story starts with you the character (who you get to customise and he/she has no name.) 
 who just wakes up from a coma, you are in prison. Another inmate stabs himself to get to the infirmary 
 unit and says he recognises you, (his brother was in your gang before you were blown up and fell 
 into a coma) and he wants to help you escape. After an escape he tells you about what happened 
 to the Saints and you are determined to resurrect them.
  I personally used the cheats, which are quite fun, but the difficulty of the game is just perfect. 
 You might find yourself repeating a few levels, but, if you didn't the game would be too easy. 
 In fact, even with cheats Saint's Row 2 can be, during some levels, very challenging. The fictional 
 city of Stillwater has been made larger than in the previous game and is great for driving around.
 
  So, if you love games like Grand Theft Auto, and enjoyed the previous Saint's Row you'll love 
 Saint's Row 2.
  I would personally prefer Saint's Row 2 to Grand Theft Auto IV, because GTA is just too realistic, 
 and the missions become a chore. Also, Saint's Row is funnier and more exciting while keeping up 
 the mature content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IFFY_93
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is an amazing single - player free roam game. The choice to have your player whatever 
 you want him/her to be like. From skin colour to personality. A variety of choices to make the 
 perfect player suitable to you. 
  
  The storyline is fantastic, with highs to lows scenes during the story gives you that energetic 
 boost to carry on playing. Even after story is done there is much more to do, such as the activities, 
 tagging, discovering secret island or just beat up any person you dislike.
  
  Fancy roaming around with a friend?
  You can!
  With co-op, just invite a friend to your world 
 and do whatever you want.
  - Fly in a helicopter and jump out to leave him crash into a building
  - Show the police who's 
 running the streets.
  - Do the missions/activities together
  - Or just beat the life out of each other LOOL
  
  Multiplayer has made a big change since the 
 latest update, before you would sit in your room with your ps3 controller in your hand waiting 
 for a match to start but flip sake it wouldn't!
  After the update there has been a countdown timer added into the waiting room screen which is quite 
 fast entering into a game room. The people online are just really annoying yet a challenge, try 
 shooting them, they run around in circles swapping guns in the speed of light. First they would 
 shoot you with a pistol then finish you off with a shotgun LOL. You just have to get the hang of 
 it and in no time, your PS3 online ID will be known to the saints row community. Saints Row 2 multiplayer 
 also gives you ranks. All started start of with ' New Jack '. The highest rank is ' King of Kingpins 
 ' only the richest can achieve that.
  
  So overall, Saint's Row 2 is an enjoyable game which you would not get bored off, it should be 
 in your collection!
  
  1 player
  Network features included.
  
  Thank you for reading my review.
  Don't forget to rate!
  
  IFFY_93 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nucksfan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is a blast to play. Its funny, enjoyable and surprisingly deep. I've only been able 
 to play the single player campaign so far, but I completed most of the story missions except the 
 last five or so. Unfortunately, the game crashes a lot and there is some frame rate slow down when 
 there is a lot going on screen. in fact, the game crashed so much that I gave up on the single 
 player. Also, the AI isn't very good, but because the action is hectic it usually works in the 
 player's favor.
  
  There is coop, multiplayer and dlc (coming soon) .
  
  I recommend Saints Row 2 because it is a lot of fun, but make sure you save often and expect bugs. 
 I was surprised that Gamespot never mentioned this in their review. I rented this game and I would 
 be pretty upset if I'd spent $60 on a game that has this many bugs, even when the gameplay and 
 story is tight. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 31, 2009 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Hmmmm... I don't know about you but to me this game seemed extremely similar to GTA... Well GTA 
 with a few million differences which makes the game a lot better, so i'm gonna compare Saints Row 
 2 to GTA4 throughout the entire review to emphasise this.
  
  In SR2 you play a fully customed character, 
  (mine had a cockney acsent hehe :-P) , who basically 
 has to take his gang from the crime low of petty punks to gang tycoon and have the monopoly of 
 the entire city. Throughout the game you do your standard story missions fighting against other 
 gangs, whilst doing your standard stronghold missions, where you complete an objective or two to 
 take an area of the city, and your usual covering the city in raw sewage side tasks... ok, well 
 thats not necessarily normal but it is one of the reasons why SR2 is better than GTA4.
  Another fun difference between the games is the amount realism. In GTA 4 you run over someone and 
 they smoothly glide over your car as you do, and if you crash full on into another car you come 
 flying head first through your windscreen into the middle of the road only to get hit by another 
 car, and go smashing into their windscreen and die... as you do, but in SR2 you drive into someone 
 and they go flying high into the air like one of NASAs projects. 'Sigh' such fun.
  
  Something they mastered in San Andreas but didn't seem to touch on in GTA4 was the 'round up your 
 possy' feature (thats possy with an O kids) . They use this in SR2 aswell which is quite handy when 
 completing strongholnd missions. You can call upon your gang members in the street to come to your 
 aid by using the special secret signal, which means get your little bottom over here and lend a 
 hand now please, or as you and I know it, whistling. "Are they really that useful?" i hear you 
 mutter. Errrr well i spose the AI allies are useful at times... as good distraction mechanisms. 
 This could mean that they die quite often, but they don't really, and even when they do you still 
 have half a minute to pour some magic water over them which makes them all better like your little 
 bed of marigolds before they finally die.
  
  Anyway,
  You also have a load of side tasks to do such as your usual street races to being a bodyguard for 
 one of the local celebrities and escorting him through an annoying crowd of fans. These missions 
 provide you with "respect points" which allow you to do some story missions. This obviously means 
 you are forced to play these side tasks throughout game which can be quite irritating at times, 
 since no matter how many legions of homies you have following you around you won't necessarily 
 have enough respect to do a story mission until you go spray some err raw sewage over a few cars, 
 houses and yachts. But hey thats still fun either way.
  
  Like GTA4 you have your funny radio shows, your normal city like scenery and a load of vehicles 
 ranging through your land, water and air vehicles. In fact the only thing that isn't in SR2 that 
 is in GTA4 is your cousin, girlfriend, or grandmother calling you up every 5 minutes to go taxi 
 them around for a bit, which is definately not a bad thing.
  
  And speaking of bad things there are of course a few faults with the game as always but don't worry 
 i'll try and make it quick. The combat is.. well its naff really. Nowadays you expect a bit of 
 comlexity when it comes to a shoot out, or at the least a cover mechanic. GTA4 allows you to hug 
 walls and pop round and shoot from behind corners. SR2 doesn't. The whole taking cover deal is 
 pretty much back to basics where you literally duck behind your cover and then unduck to pop up 
 and shoot just like the old days of driver. Pretty poor really. Can't even lock onto targets, but 
 at least you can strafe, but i got over that. What i didn't get over was the fact they incorporated 
 the twighlight zone into the game. I'd be driving along and i'll see a nice car parked on the side, 
 ill drive just past it so the parked car is just out of shot, stop, get out, turn around and the 
 car would be gone. I'd walk to where it was parked hoping it would appear but nothing happens. 
 "Grrrrr! that car was sweet" I shout, only to turn around and find MY car has dissapeared too.'Sarcastic 
 sigh'. So i take a short walk up to the crossroads up ahead and see plenty of cars to choose from 
 at the traffic lights. I then pan the camera 360 degrees around my character for fun and then, 
 of course all of the cars had gone, dissapeared, vanished into thin air!!! How irritating when 
 you desperately need a dam car to get from one place to another!!!!
  I did say try and make it quick but tried and failed.
  
  Other than that i definately recommend 
 this game to anyone who loves GTA, and everyone else on top. It is a lot better than GTA4 and if 
 you haven't already, get this game, it is the definition of funsies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SemiMaster
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:59 am PT
Review:  I mean it when I said it, Saints Row 2 is the most fun I've had in an open world sandbox game since 
 GTA Vice City. No, it is not the most polished, that would go to Grand Theft Auto 4, but as far 
 as variety and fun is concerned Saints Row 2 has that racket under control. 
  
  The game starts off with the protagonist in Stilwater correctional recovering from the explosion 
 at the end of Saints Row 1. However, the story wasn't set in stone as to what or who your character 
 was from the prior game, so it allows you to create a character from scratch. There is much more 
 freedom in creating your character this time, and by that I'm not talking about white, black, Asian 
 or Hispanic, but I mean as a female as well if you desire, giving the game a unique take on the 
 open world crime simulator (although it affects the game in absolutely no way other than aesthetics) . 
 Other characteristics you can select are height, build, hair color, facial features and expressions, 
 voices, taunts (some of those are downright hilarious) .
  
  Once your character is finalized, the game throws you into the thick of it, breaking out from jail 
 and focusing on the rise back to the top. The storyline isn't as well written as Grand Theft Auto 
 or other dramatic action games or RPGs, but it works nicely connecting the first game to the second 
 in a coherent manner. You have to take back the city from 3 new gangs that moved in once the Saints 
 lost power in the aftermath of Saints Row 1, but the biggest thing is that the Ultor Corporation 
 moved in (these guys made sunglasses in the first game if you remember) . The reason for things 
 happening are made evident throughout the game. 
  
  The game plays like a cross between Grand Theft Auto with the free roaming car driving do anything 
 aspect, but the gun play is more akin to a first person shooter, which makes for some intense and 
 well designed run and gun arcade style action. Mind you it's not as tactical as a Gears of War, 
 but it's more like a John Woo bulletstorm, which fits right in with the game's tongue and cheek 
 approach. It's less serious than GTA, and is downright slapstick, in a Mature rating sort of way. 
 Utilizing the same 8 point wheel to control your weapon choice in addition to the d pad selecting 
 your food items, drive bys are more accessible by using the X button to initiate cruise control 
 so you can aim and make a getaway easier than in the previous game. 
  
  Gone is the Wheel Woman who would take you around this time and let you focus on shooting and stuff, 
 but instead Saints Row 2 got something better, and something GTA 4 doesn't have, complete and total 
 2 player cooperative. Yes, you can drive, steal, shoot and blow up anything do anything together 
 with a friend with no tether no restrictions, nothing. It is as open world coop as you can have 
 and is one of the most endearing features of Saints Row 2.
  
  Whether 1 player or 2, Saints Row offers a tremendous amount of things to see and do and customize. 
 The series offers a tremendous amount of customization from the character, to cars with spinning 
 rims, chrome fenders, irridescent paint and fuzzy dice in the window to infinite combinations of 
 clothing colors and options that anyone can wear (yes, for the men who love high heel stripper 
 boots and short cheerleader skirts, you can wear them in game) . Oh, and you can be a pirate or 
 ninja should you choose (and you can customize your gang in 5 different ways, including as Ninjas) . 
 The cribs you can purchase can be upgraded in many ways, including stripper poles, 103 inch TVs, 
 and more. These increase your style points which makes it easier to get respect (currency to start 
 missions, but in reality running people over or doing other side missions is enough to start missions, 
 so it's purely for aesthetics and something to spend your money on) .
  
  The voice acting is great, the character who oftentimes reminds the player "That mute **** was 
 getting old" is no longer a mute, but has a much more expanded vocabulary to interact with the 
 heads of opposing gangs and the rest of the Saints in hilarious F bomb laced drug referencing ways. 
 The soundtrack is much improved in variety, especially with the 80s station, the techno station, 
 the modern rock and reggae station. The underground hip hop of the Wu Tang and affiliates and others 
 has been replaced by more mainstream rappers like Nas, Young Jeezy, Fat Joe and others, but it 
 is still an effective urban soundtrack. 
  
  Probably the most interesting aspects of the game's sound is the people. I kid you not, I've heard 
 "I need scissors, 61!" and "THE FEAAARRRR!!!" and numerous other Metal Gear references, in addition 
 to references to the Blues Brothers, the Dukes of Hazzard and more. Easter eggs abound in Stilwater. 
 
  
  The most important aspect of Saints Row 2 though is the sheer variety of the missions. They range 
 from pure run and gun and driving, to escort missions, to stealth and hijack missions, to on rails 
 shooters (well in a helicopter rather, which happens to be my favorite mission of the game) , to 
 side missions where you run around the city on fire causing damage, to spraying feces on buildings 
 for fun and profit, to street races, assassination missions, chop shop, to drug dealing to Fight 
 Club (it's just as it sounds) , to The Fuzz (think Cops, but you beat down criminals with chainsaws 
 and flamethrowers) to Protection (chucking celebrity stalkers into trash compactors and off buildings 
 for more fun and profit) . With this being mentioned, variety in Saints Row 2 just blows Grand Theft 
 Auto 4 away. There is no question.
  
  The combat is tighter, the driving is slicker (sometimes a little too loose, but way better than 
 taking a corner at 10 miles an hour in a ferrari but losing control while your pursuee takes it 
 in a jalopy at 60 mph...) .
  
  The two points where Saints Row 2 loses compared to it's nearest rival of Grand Theft Auto 4 are 
 the following.
  
  1.) The graphics are passable, or even good, but some of the textures are down right weak. Much 
 of the details in Saints Row 2 aren't vastly improved over Saints Row 1. But the biggest hit to 
 the graphical prowess is that the paint jobs for the cars are not as well defined, as if some of 
 the paints that should be glossy are not, nor do the metals look metal and other things that actually 
 performed very well in Saints Row 1 do not make a comeback with the same performance in Saints 
 Row 2.
  
  2.) The game has bugs. Oftentimes, objects will stick into cars and disrupt driving, like a metal 
 sign crammed into the engine block after hitting it. Other things like helicopters are very tempermental 
 in controls and often overturn instantly as no fault of the pilot. Sometimes certain enemies don't 
 spawn from failed triggers and missions are broken. Other times, getting stuck in a wall or falling 
 through the floor into nothing is not unheard of. Numerous little bugs, with only a few mission 
 ending riddle the game. Not to the point of severely or even slightly damaging the fun, but they 
 are noticeable. Most of the reason they don't effect the gameplay so much is that the missions 
 are broken into small managable pieces and not some large complicated tail mission for 5 minutes 
 followed by a 10 minute shootout and a 3 minute getaway with numerous points of failure along the 
 way (like a certain other comparable game) . 
  
  In the end though, the combination of the variety in missions, activities, customization and music 
 and voice work coupled with an enjoyable setting with a relatively rich backdrop with the nice 
 bonus of complete two player cooperative (this requires two consoles and games sad to say but its 
 worth it with a friend) makes it a worthwhile trip back to 'tha Row'. I know I got a least 120 
 hours of single and coop play time in Stilwater and plan to book another trip soon.
  
  Gameplay : 10 out of 10
  Graphics : 8 out of 10
  Sound : 9 out of 10
  Value : 10 out of 10
 
  Tilt : 9 out of 10
  Overall Score : 9.0 out of 10
  
  Good :
  + Variety, and more variety
  + True free roaming coop gameplay
  + Great sounds, music and voice 
 acting
  + Over the top fun (don't come in looking for an ultra realistic gritty crime drama)
  
  Bad 
 :
  - Good graphics but not much improved from the previous game
  - A number of bugs can get annoying and detract from the level of workmanship of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolkid93
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 11, 2009 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I've just started playing saints row 2. I just got it today and I've been playing it less than 
 5 hours. It's good but It's not worth $60. When the price goes down that's when you can buy it. 
 Or if you can find it way cheaper than the store price then go ahead. It's a game that you should 
 buy when it is $30 or $20. It's like GTA san andreas but different though in my opinion and it 
 has alot of extras added on. I rate the game an 8.7 out of 10. Saints row 2 is a good game but 
 I'd rather get GTA IV first and then when the price on this game goes down that's when I'll get 
 it. The driving controls suck though (or unless I'm just used to gta iv's driving controls) but 
 I like the cruise control. Ok I've updated this review. The Story Mode is great. I love how after 
 you complete all of the story missions you can Go to one of your safehouses and go to the newspaper 
 and replay the mission as many times as you want. I don't know if this is because I was too excited 
 and played the game for long amounts of time trying to complete the story mission or the story 
 mission is short. I don't know if it's me or not but I finished the story and hopefully I read 
 this correctly but I finished it in 2 hours and 40 minutes. I probably read it wrong but the story 
 mode is awsome. I love how you and another player can play story missions. Saints Row2 is under 
 my most favorite games lists. I'd recommend this game to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:50 am PT
Review:  A very fun game. Great graphics, good gameplay, but very flawed. Many glitches and bugs along the 
 way, you find shall. The story is not very good. You feel for the characters, all of them have 
 a unique personality, including the protagonist. Unlike the first game, your character (who can 
 be fully customized, mine just looks plain badass) talks a lot, and he makes a lot of jokes. The 
 game has reallly deep customization, so you can really think you are living for the character you've 
 created. In a world you can do whatever you always wanted to do, but never had the guts to. Wow, 
 I'm a great poet. :3!
  
  But let's talk about the flaws now. First of all, your character is a big prick, and that, most 
 of the times, made me really mad. He has no consideration for the ones around him whatsoever, just 
 a big douchebag who goes around, breaking alll the rules and trespassing all the boundaries just 
 to achieve his selfish goal, and he doesn't care who has to die or suffer along his path. Yes, 
 I know, I know, people he kills are just computer programs. But in a movie, for example, you feel 
 touched, scary, happy, whatever, and everything is unreal. Not true. The same happens for games 
 and their story.
  
  There are also some weird glitches like, when you are looking at a car, then you look back, and 
 then you try looking at the car again -- it disappeared. Gameplay-wise, the game is very polished, 
 but this-kinda-thing-wise, producers just seemed like they didn't even care. There's also a bug 
 when you shoot people that are in cars, or when they have someone hostage. The target does not 
 die from a headshot. A headshot is considered a normal shot to the stomach, even if you put a .44 
 Shepherd bullet between their eyes. They'll just flinch and run your ass over, driving away.
  
  As a third-person shooter, this game does it's job pretty well, even though shooting wasn't 
 intended to be its specialty. Press R3 to zoom in, like a Gears of War or a Dark Sector. The aiming 
 is precise, realystic and just works well. That's a thumbs-up, and also there are is a buttload 
 of things to do when you're not in a mission for the story, like Mayhem, in which your objective 
 is just to go around and blow stuff up, Trail Blazing, when you go around in a flaming ATV and 
 whatever you touch, blows up These are all fun things to do, but it makes the game look like a 
 mini-game collection, not a serious game like GTA4.
  
  The multiplayer is awesome. Like I said, as a third-person shooter it does a great job, so when 
 in a Gangsta Brawl (deathmatch) , it feels very good and competitive. Just feels like Stranglehold 
 online, actually, it's the exact same game (online-wise) . There's a fun coop mode, where you can 
 load your fully-customized character, crib, cars, hideout and gang stuff to share with other people, 
 and do missions or activities.
  
  To sum it all up, Saints Row 2 is a really fun game, but it's not a GOOD game. Doesn't have the 
 best quality. You don't go and admire a single aspect of the game, like you admire Resistance 2's 
 graphics, or GTA4's physics, for example. You just play through the whole thing, having more and 
 more fun through each new mass destruction weapon you unlock. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: engclm
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 3:12 am PT
Review:  Saints row 1 was decent, it was simply a good fix whilst we waited for GTA, now don't get me wrong 
 GTA 4 was a great game but it only gave me 40 hours game play where as this have give me something 
 like 76 hours.
  
  This is more like the old GTA, an easy movement system unlike GTA 4 where your character takes 
 five minutes to turn. The graphics aren't awesome but are still decent, the side missions are great 
 especially with all the bonusses you can obtain. The story is simple and kept similar to the first 
 Saints where you must complete the three gangs before moving on to the epilogue. 
  
  There is also a twist in the story for thos who played the firsr one to find out, finally the game 
 got reviewed down for its multiplayer in some reviews yet GTA didn't, even though for once GTA 
 was the clone, the saints multiplayer was the original and extended here with Co-op which is awesome 
 to have although it does make the game Ultra-Easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 10:11 am PT
Review:  Now Grand Theft Auto IV was one of- if not the best game ever, one of them... Now Saint Rows 2 
 hits out with a hint of gangster action, swearing and mature themes just like Grand Theft Auto 
 IV. Now if you had to choose between Grand Theft Auto IV and Saint Rows 2, I strongly reccomend 
 that you choose Grand Theft Auto IV. Though if Rockstar did'nt exist and there was no Grand Theft 
 Auto series the n Saint Rows would be the one that would top them all. But Rockstar does exist... and 
 make better games. Anyway, putting Rockstar and Grand Theft Auto aside, lets focus on Saint Rows 
 2. You start of in prison. A little cool cutscene and then you get to go and design what your guy 
 looks like before the prison nurse takes a look at you. Its pretty fun and its amazing how many 
 different options there are to do in customizing your character. Then you break out of jail, killin 
 guards and police by picking up metal weapons and smashing them with it brutaly over the head and 
 watch as they fall back over the building, a thin streak of blood swooping through the air... Then 
 you have to drive and escape from cop cars and drive to the ship. To be honest this mission is 
 probably one of the best missions even although its the first mission. As you go through the game, 
 you will find out that its a free roaming city full of loads of stunts for vehicles, some fun suicidle 
 things and loads of fun slapstick comedy. The game delivers a fun and great gameplay engine and 
 really captures your mind about the game. There are over 30 cheats to get, most of them stupid 
 hilarious cheats like raining pedestrians and anti-gravity and stuff. Right, rounding this review 
 off I have to say that this is a great game worth buying though there are better games out there 
 and it does have its glitches and you wont find yourself playing on it for long, even on the online, 
 though it still a great game. Thanks for Reading. Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Star_Wars117
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Story: After being caught in the explosion of a private yacht at the end of Saints Row, the protagonist 
 ended up in a coma and was kept in a prison hospital ward. After five years and extensive plastic 
 surgery, the protagonist wakes up from the coma. A fellow inmate, Carlos Mendoza, a brother of 
 one of the 3rd Street Saints, helps the protagonist to escape and make his way back to Stillwater, 
 rebuilt from a devastating earthquake. The protagonist is able to free former Saint Johnny Gat 
 just before the end of his trial, and with his help, enlists the help of three others - Pierce, 
 Shaundi, and Carlos . The protagonist resurrects the Saints, and so is referred to simply as the 
 Boss, and leads them on a mission to reclaim Stilwater from three new gangs that have taken over 
 after the fall of the Saints.
  
  Missions: The missions are quite simple, mainly chase and kill but there are a few missions here 
 and there that are different and fun. I won't give any spoilers.
  
  Features: Huge open world, Alot of weapons and vehicles.
  
  AI: The gang AI is terrible and 
 is one of the lowest points in the game. They don't work together and they don't shoot at you often.
 
  
  Graphics:. Saints Row 2 looks very good. Everything is pretty detailed. The car's do look kind 
 of odd though.
  
  Audio: Like its previous title, Saints Row 2 features a soundtrack that can be heard through radio 
 stations while the player is in a vehicle or at one of their cribs. Stilwater is serviced by eleven 
 radio stations, playing a wide array of music. Talk-back radio stations are no longer included. 
 The stations feature music from a range of genres, spanning different decades and also taken from 
 modern day music. Notable inclusions to the game's soundtrack include Avenged Sevenfold, Big Pun, 
 Duran Duran, Jet, Joss Stone, Kasabian, Lamb of God, Loverboy, Mastodon, MSTRKRFT, My Chemical 
 Romance, Ne-Yo, Panic at the Disco, Paramore, Plain White T's, Run-D. M. C., The Red Jumpsuit Apparatus, 
 The Used and Wolfmother . The theme song of Saints Row 2 is "Hands Up" performed by Lloyd Banks 
 and 50 Cent. [citation needed] A custom radio station, My Radio 85.5, allows players to listen to 
 in-game songs from the Scratch That music store and rearrange them in a custom playlist.
  
  Requirements: Be Gangsta, PS3
  
  The Good: Great graphics and Audio.
  
  The Bad: Not the 
 best story.
  
  The Ugly: N/A
  
  Replayability: Medium.
  
  The Bottom Line: An amazing 3rd person free roam shooter that fans of the OLD GTA games will enjoy. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: laplace985
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 6:28 pm PT
Review:  Saints row 2 to is a must buy for all the fans of san andreas that felt let down by gta4. The Customization 
 of your character is unmatched by any game I have ever played. My only complaint is that it ended 
 to short for me even though i played the game for almost 45hrs before I beat it lol. I spent most 
 of my time on customization and the really cool sode missions; which give you great incentives 
 for completing them. Bottom line is that if you liked san andreas then you will love this game; 
 however san andreas story line was a lot longer. The multiplayer is good and will get better when 
 they eventually release their downloadable  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dell997
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 10:55 am PT
Review:  Saints row 2 is a great game and is a lot of fun there is so much to do in the game from driving 
 around a brand new looking city to doing story/side mission's and much more. First is the city and 
 it looks like a brand new city but it's the same city from the first game. The city looks so much 
 different now the old area's from the first game look complete different and there are some new 
 area's like a trailer park a time square looking area and a college campus's which really expand's 
 the map making it a little bigger than before. Second is the vehicles and there is a lot more vehicles 
 than the first game like motorbikes, boats,, jet ski's, airplane's and helicopters and all handle 
 great. Third is the story the game takes place a few year's after the first game where you wake 
 you in a jail hospital and the first thing you do is customise your guy [or girl] any way you want 
 after that you meet a guy who help's you break out of jail and help's you get your gang back on 
 track [after the first game third street saints get torn apart buy the different new gang's in the 
 city] and help's you take over stillwater again. The bottom line is saints row 2 is a great game 
 and if you have a ps3 than you need to give this game a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dwithrow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:31 am PT
Review:  Put Saints Row 2 and GTA 4 next to each other and ask me which one I would rather play, Im going 
 Saints Row 2! Why do you ask? When I want to play a free roaming sand box game, I dont want my 
 cousin calling me every 5 mins to come play bowling, I dont want some sad Eastern European man 
 crying about his problems, I dont want realistic cars where I cant make E-Brake turns. Saints Row 
 has none of this. You can create your own character, but the only downside is that he only has 
 3 different voices to pick from. Its more colorful and the missions are pact full of fun. Getting 
 the rep points sometimes can be boring but they make all different kinds of events from shooting 
 poop on houses to covering your homies in a Cobra attack helicopter. I love the GTA series just 
 as much as the next guy but Saints Row I can get in a dress and drive over little old ladies. When 
 you give gamers the ability to do whatever they want, they dont Nicko and his sad story and his 
 limited world with rules and dumb phone calls they want a character you can create and do whatever 
 you want! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EoSCaboose
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I Must Say This Game To Me Was Better Than GTA 4 Only Because Of The Wide Aray Of Weapons, Clothing, Cars, Better 
 Online Play. This Games Got Wat GTA 4 Left Out I Mean Come On Which Is More Fun Jumping Out Of A 
 Plane At 16000 Feet And Living or Jumping Out Of A Heli And U Have No Parchute So U Die I Mean 
 This Game Is Not Realistic But Since When Did Video Games Have To Be Realistic I Prefer To Run 
 Down The Street With A Mini-gun Killing All In The Most Brutal Fasion Which Most Games Dont Let 
 You Do That Anymore. Voice Acting In The Game Is Great Graphics Have Improved Over The First Game 
 So Has The Gameplay The Music Is Great Comepared To GTA 4 At Least I Think So O And Zombie Mode 
 Is Just Plain Fun I Would Say There Are More Zombies Than COD World At Wars Zombie Mode But I Would 
 Be Lieing. For The Most Part This Game Is Better Than Saints Row 1 In Many Ways And ILL Never Know 
 Why The Game Hasnt Won Any Awards Which Is Crap 10/10 No Doudt About It. O And For The People Who 
 Did Not Like This Game I Hope U Rot And Die In A Hole Or Even Better Stuff Ur Self In A Trunk And 
 And Put The Car In A Monster Truck Rally And Get Crushed.... And Ahh Yes If U Did Not Know There 
 Will Be A Saints Row Movie (And I Do Mean In Theaters) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kitsukage
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 12:42 pm PT
Review:  I can say I definitely had fun with Saint's Row 2. But the unfortunate thing is it is very hard 
 to look at it as its own game, when the GTA series has pretty much stapled the standard for this 
 genre.
  
  However, I will say that there is one very tedious thing to Saint's Row 2... and that starts right 
 before you see your character for the first time; the character creation. It was a very nice touch, 
 allowing you to modify your character to your liking, but some of the options given were just ridiculous 
 and more or less unneeded; at least for the beginning of the game. Especially if you're like me 
 and look at every single option available to you.
  
  But regardless of the lengthy character creation, it was a good game to play. I thought some of 
 the dialogue was fun to listen to; especially when comparing how the male and female voices sounded 
 through the storyline missions, and the soundtrack for the game was pretty solid.
  
  But in the long run, Saint's Row 2, no matter how you look at it, is far too short a game. I was 
 amazed at how short a time it had taken me to complete and in a way, it was kind of disappointing.
 
  
  But in general, it is a good game for its genre... but definitely not the best. Its very hard to 
 describe, when you have a popular series like GTA looming over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Minion_of_Jrock
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 27, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is all about gangs and what they do to move up in the world to be number one, and 
 that is what makes this game worth playing. Everything in the game consists around The 3rd Street 
 Saints just like in the first game. Starting from the begining all over again you slowly build 
 up you gang again while taking out the other 3 gangs that had been running the city while your 
 away. While in the game you are able to take cars to local shops and customize them how ever you 
 want, the features for that are great because there is so many different things that you can do 
 to what ever car you grab, the best part is you can put knee cappers (spikes that come out of the 
 rim of the tire) on every car. There are very few gliches in the game but there are a few times 
 were it just wouldnt load and I had to restart my PS3 and do it all over again, that kind of got 
 irritating after a while.
  
  I would recomend this game to anyone who has played GTA4 and has gotten bored with it, in SA 2 
 there are so many things to do you wouldnt be able to decide on which to do first. From customizing 
 cars, doing side missions, or doing the actually missions to progress in the game it will keep 
 you occupied for a long time. I give this game a 10 out of 10 best it is one of the best -- and 
 most violent -- games I have ever play, I hope they come out with another one real soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row came on to the scene at a very opportune time. Grand Theft Auto IV had been delayed 
 for at least a year, so anyone needing a fix had a new franchise to turn to. Surprisingly, Saint's 
 Row wasn't nearly as awful as other games that tried the GTA formula in the past. In fact, it wasn't 
 awful at all, it was better than the latest GTA installment at the time, San Andreas in many ways, 
 and didn't leave a bad taste in your mouth. It held its own incredibly well. However, Saint's Row 
 2 is making its debut on both the 360 and PS3 this time around, and right after GTA IV. Does it 
 pale in comparison, or is it a GTA killer? Like the first game, it's somewhere in between, but 
 definitely closer to being at the positive end of the spectrum.
  
  The story is pretty straight forward. Stillwater has turned into a successful area that's loaded 
 with fancy skyscrapers; making the gangsta hood you called your home unrecognizable. Your affiliated 
 gang, The Saints, have pretty much disbanded since the last time you raised hell with them. There's 
 only one predictable thing to do from there, and that's reclaim your hood, and expand your territory 
 even further by wiping the rest of the gangs off the bottom of your shoe.
  
  Is it simple? Yes. Does it ruin the game in any way? No! That's the best thing about Saints Row 
 2. It knows that if it went head to head with GTA IV based on story and contextual content, as 
 well as trying to provide the most real experience imaginable, it wouldn't have a chance. This 
 game focuses on providing a good time through the gameplay experience alone, and it succeeds in 
 almost every way. The cut scenes in the game are lousy, the voice acting is awful, and the script 
 itself would make you want to cringe if this were any other game. However, because Saints Row 2 
 is clearly going for a different experience than its competitor, it all fits together splendidly.
 
  
  One thing that's very different from our first trip to Stillwater is the character you're going 
 to play as. The character creator is incredibly in depth. I spent some time tweaking every little 
 feature I could, and eventually I thought I was looking in a mirror. I had my wife come and look 
 at the character I made and she was floored by how close a match it was. Another big change is 
 how much your character talks. In the first game, it was as if you had your jaw wired shut, yet 
 in this game, you're talking in every cut scene! This is great, and the concept behind being able 
 to choose the voice you were prefer to use for your character is nice too, but they're all pretty 
 extreme. There's no 'middle of the road' voice. Last but not least, you can choose a positive response 
 you can give to people on the street, as well as a vulgar taunt.
  
  Don't expect anything out of the ordinary when it comes to the missions themselves. You're still 
 going to be picking up and dropping off, running into places with guns blazing, covering people 
 with a sniper rifle as deals go down, and much, much more. If you're looking for Saints Row 2 to 
 knock your socks off with something really new and fresh, then you're going to be disappointed.
 
  
  Where this game truly excels, is in its open ended gameplay. I know, I know. You're saying, "All 
 of the games that are like this are open ended!" True, but how many of them let you go anywhere 
 on the map and access any of the side missions right from the beginning of the game? You have the 
 option of spending all your free time playing only side missions, the story, or mixing it up whenever 
 you want. Not only that, but this philosophy works with weapons, too. You can use a kitana fairly 
 early in the game, and you can find them frequently. Everything is easily accessible in this game.
 
  
  Car garages are a lot better in this game than they've ever been for any open ended game. In GTA 
 IV for example, you're left with a parking space that allows you to park two cars, maybe a third 
 if you can fit it in there just right. Saints Row 2 rectifies this annoyance by automatically placing 
 your car in a garage that can hold numerous cars at once.
  
  The only real limitation you have as far as things you can or cannot have early on in the game, 
 are the clothes or cribs you can buy with the blood money you earn. It's worth saving up though, 
 because you can buy some expensive cribs that come with a helipad. You fly a chopper in the game, 
 and it's yours in a garage that's located on the helipad! You can decorate the multiple cribs you'll 
 undoubtedly buy to be cheap and on the down low, or you can pimp it up and install stripper poles! 
 Try getting your homies to leave your crib then!
  
  A lot of the old activity favorites are still around. You can still earn a lot of cash by driving 
 around town while a hooker is keeping a client happy in the back seat, and you can still rack up 
 a lot of dough by performance insurance fraud. To be expected for another installment in the series, 
 there are numerous of other fun activities that you can toy around with, and they're a lot of fun. 
 You can drive around town in a septic truck and spray crap (literally) over anyone and anything, 
 and you can even join in underground fight clubs!
  
  Saints Row 2 is an incredibly fun game. It's loaded to the teeth with action and fun activities, 
 and you can play through the game at any pace you want, thanks to the great idea of making the 
 entire map open to you from the beginning of the game. Is it better than GTA IV? No, it's not. 
 I still prefer the more dramatic storyline and the realistic graphics, but to be fair, Saints Row 
 2 never tries to compete with its competitor. If you were a fan of the original Saints Row, this 
 is a solid effort, and definitely worth picking up if you're tired of GTA IV.
  
  Honestly, I thought the first game looked a lot better. Saints Row 2 isn't exactly ugly, but because 
 this game is intentionally going with a fun theme as opposed to a deep one, it doesn't seem to 
 fit the tone of the game as well as the original. We used to have some really saturated colors 
 that were almost cartoony. It was unrealistic, sure, but it added a nice kind of pizzazz to the 
 image.
  
  That's not my only gripe though. The world that was created for the second offering doesn't appear 
 to be as diverse in its appearance. A lot more detail could have been added to almost everything. 
 What we're left with is an open ended world, yes, but an open ended world that practically looks 
 the same around every corner.
  
  Even though I knew this game wasn't going to look as good as GTA IV, I still expected it to look 
 at least as good as its predecessor. I'm not sure if the developers were in a rush to cash in on 
 the numerous GTA fans before they got tired of playing this kind of game, or what. Whatever the 
 reason, I think they really dropped the ball here.
  
  I can't say I'm very disappointed in the sound department though! Whenever there's a big explosion 
 or there's some loud guns going off, it sounds pretty decent. The bass doesn't really shake things 
 up in your living room, but it's loud and has enough 'oomph' to give you a great feel for the action 
 that's taking place on the screen. The dynamic range that you'll experience between gameplay and 
 cut scenes could have been evened out a little, but it's a minor annoyance since you're spending 
 most of your time playing anyway. The most impressive aspect of the audio is its directionality. 
 You're going to hear a very accurate representation of where things are around you at all times.
 
  
  As far as the soundtrack goes, it's stellar. It doesn't feel nearly as diverse as what was offered 
 in GTA IV, but it more than makes up for this by taking great pride in its quality, not the quantity. 
 In fact, I'd even say that I actually prefer the soundtrack to this game over that of its competitor.
 
  
  Saints Row 2 isn't a GTA killer, that's for sure. However, it stands well enough on its own due 
 to its different take on this style of game. There are so many fun activities that you can take 
 guilty pleasure in playing right from the beginning of the game, and you can go back to that shoot 
 'em up until they're all dead storyline whenever you want. I think I'd be hard pressed to find 
 anyone who didn't care for this game at all, because although it has numerous shortcomings when 
 it comes to its graphical presentation, the game makes up for it in so many different ways that 
 you just don't care! This game is recommended to anyone who has ever played the original in the 
 series, or wants something that's a little more laid back than GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: furu13
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 2:37 am PT
Review:  I started playing and maybe an hour later i felt so bored, I'm not sure why such games are being 
 released with such a big launch...
  graphic sucks, story GTA wanna be and trying more ghetto and dirty and its not even working, the 
 main character is not cool...
  Some parts of the story are kinda good really F**** up and nice but overall not nice.
  I seriously 
 wrote this because int he middle east we cant rent games, so we're gonna have to buy it all the 
 way and i did : (
  
  anyway guys 1 advice dont buy it  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Never_So
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 17, 2009 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok to start, yes the GTA like feature is sort of odd, but during the first probably hour of playing, 
 you're already laughing your a** off with the taunting feature. Unlike GTA 4, you can fly a good 
 variety of planes from biplanes, to triplanes, from, WWII jets to Leer jets, this game could not 
 get any better, the fact here is that you've got a game that makes customizing a hero to the public, 
 you can customize your character between male or female, black, white, Hispanic, a freaky man dressed 
 in woman clothes a teenage looking chump or a saggy old grandpa or just go running around in your 
 bra and underwear, whatever! You can make your car from the average model into a bat mobile, a 
 freaking monster, or something you can just crash and trash. Weapons on the other hand are what 
 you'd hope for, yeah, you get the M4, an Uzi SMG, and an M9 Beretta, but thats only the start, 
 you can have an XM8 with an M203 grenade launcher, a pair of shock paddles, and a Baseball bat 
 if you want. Also to the fact that the modern-ness of the game is a given, which, basically means 
 that everything is what you'd expect from modern urban usage. Unlike GTA 4 Saints Row 2 offers 
 more of a wider variety of vehicles, customization options, and bunches more! Also you don't have 
 to worry about walking the streets alone because your homies always are at your back. The graphics 
 may appear mediocre, but as you progress, everything shapes up. There is no better game like this 
 if you want customization, humor, and just a good time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fissurestriker
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:45 pm PT
Review:  this game has been highly anticipated but i dont think it was quite worth the wait. i will admit 
 THQ were quick to get a sequel out but there is so much that could of been better. the driving 
 is more than disappointing and shooting is just to easy, there is NO recoil for god sake!!! the 
 co-op mode is very good but actually playing against people online is a nightmare, no its not because 
 its hard its not even playing itsself, its waiting to play. it takes you to some stupid waiting 
 room where you have to wait for people to join which takes forever and is annoying for impaitent 
 people like myself!! (i wanna play not watch a screen waiting for it to move!!) but the character 
 creation is very good and you can FINALLY have a british voice, thank you THQ!!! but overall its 
 ok, the story is a bit short but its good non the less. i would consider renting before buying 
 as the saintsrow games are like marmite (you either love them or you hate em!!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cowb0ysFaN15
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2009 4:57 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is back and with a vengance i really didnt care for the first game so i was kind of 
 tentative about playing the second one but come to find out that this game is one of the better 
 games i have played this year along with MGS4, Resistance 2, and FarCry2.
  
  The Good:
  -Very Fun and addicting
  -Game has a great sense of humor
  -Easy pick up and play controlls
 
  -They took what was wrong with the first game and improved it
  -Good Steering (horrible problem for GTA 4)
  -sounds great
  -interesting storylines that have 
 you hooked from start to finish
  
  The Bad:
  -difficulty flying planes and helicopters
  -a couple of glytches here and there
  
  Saints Row 2 is a tremendous game you would be silly 
 not to give this a chance. The game consist of 4 gangs and its your job to take them down and put 
 stillwater under controll of the saints. If your in a jam wondering if you should get GTA 4 or 
 Saints Row 2 trust me when i say its a better choice if you pick Saints row 2 because you will 
 be completly satisfied at the end and want to keep playing the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Infernus29184
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:59 am PT
Review:  
  For starters, the storyline of this game is great. Really well distributed between the three rival 
 gangs and Ultor. The cutscenes are fantastic , you will surely get excited as the story unfolds.
 
  
  There is only one disappointing aspect.. Gameplay.... after doing a few missions, you will start 
 feeling bored. Most of them include shooting people as you walk through the stage highlighted through 
 markers.
  
  Graphics are poor and AI is horrible. No variety in character behaviour, lots and lots of glithes 
 , at times the game will get stuck and you are left with no option other than restarting your PS3 
 .
  
  One great thing is you can throw people , as many as you want..... and you will get addicted to 
 this feature in minutes.... really good idea which they should keep intact if they are planning 
 any sequels. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clidy
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 1, 2009 7:04 am PT
Review:  Well i did this review to talk about Saints Row 2, the gamespot critics evaluate the game with 
 a score of 8.3, i think it deserves better, i think it deserves at least an 8.8, the game is not 
 better than gta4 (i am saying this because i have both of them) , but its very fun, it is a great 
 game. 
  They are both great games but also a little diferent, Gta4 is very serious while Saints Row 2 is 
 much more imature, it is very fun it has lot of activities, the characters are very good, Gta4 
 is more serious, it has stuning graphics, the character are also very good but besides the mainstory 
 it hasn t as much activities as Saints Row 2. I think that Saints Row 2 is not as good as Gta4 
 but it is also very good and it is a worthy oponent, i recommend all of you sandbox games fans 
 to buy it is a great game.
  
  
  Note: my english may not be very correct since that i am not an America, but a Portuguese guy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BehzatPinar
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 9, 2009 2:38 am PT
Review:  Yeah here comes my favorite one in these days...
  
  i just bought it to try it and i wasn't sure about the game. Read the reviews here checked the scores 
 and i decided to buy it to test it. i think it was my best decision to buy it.
  
  Now everyone knows Gta is the starter, leader of this kind. That's why i respect Gta so much and 
 will always continue to play it. BUT even this game is maybe a little bit copy of Gta i can honestly 
 say that i found more than Gta in this game.
  
  Gta used many beautiful materials in the game and even they were beautiful additions i don't know 
 why they stopped using these. For example buying a property or collecting ur income from ur stores, or 
 getting a homie or bodyguard next to u to protect you and etc. YEAH at last i found these in this 
 game too. You can buy a property (home, store) and u can decorate it however u want. it is enjoyable 
 still don't know why Gta is not using it anymore. Or getting a homie, friend next to you so u can 
 make ur own army and attack anywhere u want. it is sooo enjoyable to recruit man, ur own army and 
 attacking the other gangs. U are fighting for the neighborhoods and trying to take it and if you 
 can u get income from there. it is so beautiful too.
  
  As a result you create ur own army, u decide what kind of clothes they'll wear, their moves even 
 u'll choose ur gangs cars. Many details in this part. Also u choose ur man to protect u. i prefer 
 choosing my own army (a couple man-as much as i can) i'll go and my little army will follow me :) 
 That's so enjoyable.
  
  Story is good, funny and enjoyable to play. Also there are many many mini games to make cash, respect 
 etc. are they are really again so enjoyable to play. You can spend many hours with only playing 
 mini games instead of the story.
  
  There are many shops u can go and make some shopping :) and they are different. For example clothing 
 shop in a poor neighbourhood has cheap and simple things in it but in a rich neighbourhood it completely 
 changes and u can buy luxury clothes and shoes, etc.  
 and many many more shops. U have too many things to spend money on.
  
  There are different gangster groups and you'll have a war with all of them. Thank god there is not 
 only 1 enemy like in Gta. i am so glad in this game there are different gangster groups so it makes 
 different stories and more enjoyable.
  
  As a result this game is excellent and i can honestly say that i really found more than Gta in 
 this game. But i gave 9 points why? Because the graphics are not bad u can play but also not good, not 
 enough for a superb game like this. Also there is no girl friend to go out like or share some personal 
 secrets like in Gta :) in Gta this part is my favorite u can go out with ur friends or girl friend 
 play bowling etc. and u can do many many things even u can go to ur girl friends house to drink 
 coffee :D. i hope they'll make Saints Row 3 like this and the graphics will be better...
  
  GTA is better in some points example GTA's graphics are really good according to this. You can play 
 GTA like Role Playing for example you don't need to do missions every time u can call ur cousin 
 or girlfriend go out play bowling, pool or u can go to a strip club or comedy club etc. You don't 
 have to do missions every time you can spend your time with these too. Also in GTA there are adult 
 materials like prostitudes having sex etc so in these points GTA is number one and Saints Row is 
 so weak at that points!!! Thats why i didn't give 10 points to Saints Row 2....
  
  PS: ALSO THE GAME iS SOO FUNNY SOMETiMES (Some videos are really so funny) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocelot1994
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I havent had this much fun with a sandbox game since San andreas till now. The gangs the guns the 
 cribs the story i loved it all!!
  
  U have to do activities to continue the story but these activities are so much fun that u will 
 do them more than the main story itself.
  You wake up from a coma 5 years later to find ur gang the Saints destroyed and only U and Johnny 
 Gatt ( Only homie from SR) Retake the city from 3 gangs.
  
  The story was really good continuing where Saints Row left off and it will be continued in saints 
 row 3.
  
  The Online in this game has errors in it. The matchmaking i found to be HORRIBLE because sometimes 
 ur waiting for up to 30 mins just for 1 game to start. Why couldnt they have given us a lobby where 
 a host starts the match like GTA IV??
  
  Or at least have matchmaking like COD4 because there u only wait a few seconds and ur playing. 
 
  
  The Co-op is flawless u can play the entire game co-op way and it flows really well with no lag 
 so that portion of online was done so well i hope other games copy it for their own co-op modes.
 
  
  Other than that Saints row 2 is your FUN fill from GTA IV and it beats GTA IV by far in fun and 
 online so definetly pick this up if u loved GTA 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mdjVG
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  I personally liked the first game better. This one was alright but it did not really impress me 
 that much, yeah they increased the clothing choices and customizable gang, and more create mode 
 people, but I pretty much think that the people and your character you create are funny looking 
 and look like they put vasaline on their face. They look super shiny and the hair looks fake. Oh 
 and I miss the different the old gang members like the fat ones, muscular ones, and the others, 
 Except the girls on Saints Row were ugly as f**k, Saints Row 2 girls are way better, Oh yeah and 
 don't forget LUZ LOOKS HORRIBLE. Other then that the game was good, The combat was tight and I 
 wish there was more, picking up objects was a great add. The new weapons were amazing like the 
 Gal 43, Annihilator, and Satchel Charges. Its funny and cool how soft the police are on arrest, 
 I only got arrested ounce. Masoka Unit have tight uniforms and customizing every car (including 
 unique) was tight to. Motorcycles with a samurai sword is fun. I enjoyed it and the extra ending 
 missions were intense. note: Julius looks like a damn Loa Dust Victim, Troy let himself go, Aisha 
 should've kept the hair and drop the nose lift. Had fun hope Saints Row 3 is better then this one, 
 can't wait to see Dex. Keep making the story line this interesting too loved this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zephyr23594
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  Plenty of fun, great customisation, but disapointing graphics, but overall pretty good nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:17 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row 2 picks up a few years after the first game. Stillwater has been spruced up by a new 
 megacompany, and the Saint's are nearly a dead gang. As you bust out of jail, the game sets the 
 tone for what's to come. It's going to be funny, over the top, and never take itself too seriously. 
 The storyline is OK, basically raise the Saint's back from the dead, and the ending will tie up 
 a bit of loose ends from the first game, but story isn't what matters here. It's all about blowing 
 stuff up, cursing up a storm, insanely fun cars to drive, and blowing a bit more stuff up. Returning 
 to an almost carbon copy of Stillwater from the first game gave me pause at first, but other than 
 the fact you know where your going a bit easier, the city is totally redone. Gameplay is effortless, 
 if a tad easy, driving cars and motorcycles is still a blast, as is the fun gun/aiming mechanics. 
 Character, crib, and gang customization is easy to do, and fun as well. There are plenty of missions 
 to do at your own pace, one gang's missions stood out from the others to me, The Brotherhood, but 
 all 3 are really very good. The side missions, like in Saint's Row are and out and out joy. Just 
 pure juvenile fun. Which sums up Saint's Row 2. Some movies win Oscars and are critical darlings 
 (GTAIV) and are very good. Others are your standard summer popcorn good time, think Iron Man, not 
 asking too much in terms of brain power, no big critiuqe of society, just sit back and have fun. 
 Which Saint's Row 2 does beautifully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Game_Boy45
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  Although Saints Row maybe the little brother to Grand Theft Auto. It serves as a not all different 
 approach, but a slightly more adolescent feeling. The graphics are decent, controls not too diffucult. 
 The driving in the game in my opinion is terrible it always was. Zooming in on a target is cool, 
 but would of liked to seen a more over the shoulder view I. E..... Meatl Gear Solid4 or Resident 
 Evil, Dead Space etc. etc.. Melee attacks are useless if your close enough to your target than 
 you will take a lot of damage before the target is on the ground. Should have been a little more 
 distinction between handguns. But all the other non-tradtional weapons in the game are a big bonus 
 and lots of fun. Overall the game is a good buy, not GOOD-BYE. Everything that I found I didnt 
 like about GTA Saints Row should have corrected or counteracted to put it a step past GTA, but 
 the didnt and so Saints Row is still number two. A very very very close TWO! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony_Patriot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Saints row in no way tries to emulate GTA IV but goes for the complete opposite with tonnes of 
 over the top antics and violence. 
  
  The Good: Graet customization letting you be whoever you want and covers everything from sex, race, 
 age and everything else you can imagine and if you feel like a fresh look you can always visit 
 image as designed for a new face. The high level of customizationg also carries over to the clothing 
 with many different options available and you can also customize the style and colour of the clothes 
 aswell. There is also slightly less customizable items such as cars and your many houses. Overall 
 the voice acting is of a very high with no-one really giving a poor performance. Wide range of 
 firearms from the normal such as pistols and machine guns to the strange such as shock paddles 
 and stun guns. The respect system has gone through a overhual aswell as the activities which are 
 genuinely fun and can earn you some cool clothes. There is also some humour thrown in during the 
 cutscenes but are much mor previlant in the hillarious radio ads. 
  
  The Bad: A huge amount of technical problems ranging from the various bugs to the just plain ugly 
 grphics. The bad graphics also carry into the cutscenes which are fine for the samedi and brotherhodd 
 but for some areason are completely horrible for the ronin. The story is pretty basic with only 
 a limited amount of predictable twists but in the end it does do it's job. Doing stronghold after 
 stronghold does get tiring after a while. 
  
  If you can deal with the bad production values you are assured of some fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: G-T-A---M-A-D
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  You wake up from a coma and then have to create your own character. This part is fun because you 
 get to play around with the different looks and builds you can give your guy, you can make him/her 
 any race you want and even choose an accent for him/her to use through out the whole game! Then 
 you are thrown in jail and have to escape. I'm not gonna go into details of the whole storyline 
 but i can tell you it is kind of dodgy.
  
  ---Gameplay ---
  The gameplay is great, you can pick up anything from a street hydrant to computer keyboard to rubbish 
 bin bags! Its that crazy, Now lets talk about the shooting system... Well its actually great, its 
 makes u work for kills by moving the cursor unlike GTA IV which is Auto-Aim. It has the usual guns 
 but also the wacky ones like a tazer, pepper spray, chainsaw and even a sledgehammer. I enjoyed 
 the driving it was similar to San Andreas, but i hated how there wasn't a lot of luxury cars on 
 the street to hi-jack. Also loved how they had the black hawk style chopper with the missiles and 
 minigun attached it made the game a touch funner (I know that not a proper word =P) . Though I was 
 disappointed not to see a tank.
  
  ---Graphics ---
  Alot of people say this game has bad graphics I don't know whether there bias to GTA or just down 
 right DUMB. Sure... this game isn't exactly GTA like graphics but it still has competitive ones. 
 Everything looks realistic and nothing like PS2 graphics. The cut scenes are also pretty impressive 
 considering you're player was customized not and original one. The water is also pretty neat when 
 you are in the speed boats. So you cant complain about the graphics when you've got loads of things 
 to do in the game after you finish the story.
  
  ---Sound ---
  I have to admit the radio sucked bad, even worse then GTA IV,
  the radio in this game isn't like 
 you're Vice City or San Andreas. One cool feature was the ability to purchase songs from the radio 
 and put them in your customized radio channel (but the songs weren't good except for "the final 
 countdown". Sound effects in the car are normal and precise.
  
  ---Storyline ---
  Storyline is OK, but very repetitive at times. Kill this guy here, blow that there. There are 3 
 types of main missions, The Roning (Japanese Yakuza Mafia) , The Brotherhood (Bikies) and The Sons 
 of Samedi ( Jamaican Gang) . When you finish these you will do the 4th main Mission, Ultor Corporations 
 (big corrupted corporate giant that wants to eliminate you)
  
  
  Over all this game is Superb and one of a kind, Oh and i didn't even mention that you could customize 
 you houses, Gangs and even vehicles. Even adding hydraulics and Nitrous! The game has a huge type 
 of variety. A must have for any PS3,360 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  Sandbox games seem to be all the rage now a day. Everyone from ten year old boys to their grandmothers 
 wants to enjoy the relative freedom that sandbox games promise. The GTA series was the first to 
 present players with this concept, a playground of chaos and awesomeness, with GTA 3 being the 
 first game to really nail the concept in a living, breathing 3D world. Ever since then, other developers 
 have been playing catch up to Rockstar, trying to match GTA's success. The first Saints Row was 
 a competent game, introducing a new contender to the GTA crown but ended up feeling more like San 
 Andreas' wacky cousin, fun to play with but quick to make a fool of himself. With Saints Row 2, 
 the developers are hoping to become GTA's sexier cousin, well worth a look and promising a better 
 ride.
  
  Saints Row 2 has you playing as the leader of the Saints gang. You wake up from a prolonged comma 
 to find yourself in a prison infirmary and helped on by a fan, you make your escape to start reclaiming 
 the city of Still Water as yours. At this point the game leaves you to your own devices. The whole 
 city is available for you to tour from the get go and is packed to the rafters with stuff to do. 
 What makes this gang themed game so different though is that you can customise your character to 
 your heart's content! No longer are you tied to the emotionally numb silent guy or the weary soldier 
 from a war ravaged country looking for a new start, you can play as whoever you want to be. A very 
 brave move by the developers but it works beautifully as sitting back and watching your character 
 interact with others in cutscenes!
  
  What makes Saints Row 2 even more enjoyable is the sheer amount of stuff there is to do in the 
 city. In some cases it can be a bit overbearing with so much to do all over the city but Saints 
 Row 2 manages to avoid this by making some of these missions so darn fun! There is something intrinsically 
 amusing about throwing yourself in front of oncoming traffic to claim from you insurance company 
 or streaking nude through the streets of the city for news coverage. The game is just packed with 
 these crazy little side missions that amuse and keep you going through the main story, which is 
 a good thing since to advance the main story, you are required to increase your respect which can 
 only be gained through performing these side missions. This might seem like a cheap way of increasing 
 the games length but you'll most likely enjoy the side missions more than the main quest anyway.
 
  
  Unfortunately, as with most things in life, you have to take the good with the bad. Saints Row 
 2 is what we call a NFFN... Nice from Far but Far from Nice. The game just looks dated. The fact 
 that it looks almost identical to the first game is a shocker considering the promises of grandeur 
 made by the developer. The game is also easy. The decision to have a rebounding health bar means 
 that you'll go through very long periods without dying and removes a lot of the difficultly from 
 the game. Add that to the lack lustre AI and most fire fights are simple affairs. The finally issue 
 with the game is that it feels a bit too much little San Andreas. As the saying goes, imitation 
 is the sincerest form of flattery and in this case Saints Row 2 is praising GTA to high heaven.
 
  
  What Saints Row 2 is, is fun. Don't come here looking for drama or amazing production value, just 
 come with an open mind looking for some good old family fun. Okay, maybe not family fun but fun 
 none the less. Saints might not be GTA's sexier cousin, but at least she doesn't keep asking you 
 to call your other cousins and take then out to dinner, yes we are looking at you Niko!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: llSapphyrell
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 6, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 offers full character customization where as you can be yourself as you play the game. 
 You can create a character which reflects you in real life. The way you look, your race, the way 
 dress and your gender. There are alot of clothes to buy in many stores which offers various tastes 
 for clothing. You can change everything you wear the way you like it, and anytime you feel like 
 doing so. Now, you can create any gender or be a woman and dress like a man or the way around. 
 Being a sexy chic or simple school girl gangster is now playable in this game
  
  This game has the most number of hair style one can have in a game. One can change to a formal 
 hairdo to an exotic dreadlocs hairdo with just a visit to the plastic surgeon.
  
  Saints Row 2 is the lime light of all action games because it has alot flash and blings. There 
 are alot of jewelry stores where you can buy necklaces, earrings, rings, and many more accessories. 
 It is very innovative of Saints Row 2 to have a unique feature where you can change what metal 
 you like for your jewelry. Choosing from steel, silver, and gold, a player may wish to wear what 
 suits him most.
  
  Buying Clothes plus the jewelries and other possessions gives you style points which makes it easier 
 to earn more respect. When you don't change clothes, you will get negative reactions from the people 
 around.
  
  This game has the most number of weapons ever. My favorite weapons are katana, chainsaw, taser 
 and AK47.
  
  Asside from these weapons, you can pick up anything on the ground and turn it into a weapon. You 
 can even pick up a wheelchair and smash it on someone.
  
  The shine of the game didn't end at just jewelries. It also offered glossy awesome cars. The cars 
 shine because you can fully customize your ride at shops which you can visit you anytime in order 
 to make your car as cool as possible. Don't think the game is costly because you spend alot on 
 customization. It's a really convenient part of the game in which you can just steal a customized 
 car. It just takes an observant eye and you can spot people around you driving really hot cars 
 and steal them. I really like the way this game included really rare cars, one can only spot at 
 certain time and place, and one can buy for a really expensive price. It added more thrill to the 
 game. The time and effort on saving cash to buy the most expensive car and the time consuming search 
 and wait for a rare car is so fulfilling when you get what you want in the end. The best rides 
 would be the Bear, FBI, Bulldog and Superiore.
  
  Cash is easy to earn on Saints Row 2. Just be industrious and patient.
  
  You will be playing 
 this game for really long fun-filled and action packed ours. It is because it has alot of missions. 
 The most action packed which had me at the edge of my bed is the snatch activity.
  
  SR2 has tons of activities and diversions.
  
  The most brutal of all is the Drive-by Diversion. 
 It's a war where dead bodies scatter the streets and the sound of explosions means danger to your 
 crew. Quickness is decision making matters most as you see you car start to smoke or when RPGs 
 and grenades start raining to your vehicle.
  
  The test of patience really got me eating while playing or just holding my controller and listening 
 to the games radio stations' music. This test of patience is the Chop Shop activity. Saints Row 
 2 was really realistic on this part of the game. You will find a car depending on time, weather, 
 place, people and environment. It really got me thinking on where I may find that certain car needed. 
 The creators of this game really put their heart on to this game and they made it as realistic 
 as possible.
  
  This is the one thing you can only find in Saints Row 2: party system. Playing an action game single 
 player is now better than ever. You can call homies to ride with you. You and your crew will protect 
 each other in order to dominate and eliminate other gangs. There will only be a maximum of 3 crew 
 members you can bring along to ride with you but expect nearby allies to assist you when you are 
 attacked close to them. The funniest moments I had in the game was being able to ride with the 
 special crew. These are the ones you unlock when you finish certain mission. I had lots of laugh 
 with the special crew member you unlock when you finish a certain mission. He sings with the tune 
 of So Sick by Ne-Yo. He's the funniest crew member.
  
  The most innovative part of this party system is that homies can snatch other vehicles and follow 
 you from behind. You can do this when you ride a 2-seater. The other 2 crew members will find another 
 vehicle.
  
  How about using a human shield? Or shooting an enemy behind a human shield killing both the hostage 
 and the enemy. It's all in this game. Try throwing someone on top of the highest building.
  
  I played the mission on hardcore mode and I can say that there really difficult missions. Just 
 be creative, bring the right crew, right weapons and alot of ammo.
  
  There are air and water vehicles now in SR2. The controls on these vehicles are unique and easy 
 to get used to. There are motorcycles. The Kenshin for me is the most fun to ride on. Doing jumps 
 on in was fun.
  
  Saints Row 2 has so many features. Endless possibilities you can do. It has alot of great music 
 you can listen to on the radio or buy as an mp3 for your audio player. It's the best game ever. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: t_biggin
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 7:10 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 (and 1 for that matter) is a return to when games were fun and a bit silly. There's 
 no moral messages, no reflection on society, and realism often takes a back seat. If you can't 
 handle that then this game isn't for you - maybe tax auditing is. An early mission involves clearing 
 out a bunch of hobos by destroying all their shanties while fending off their knife & bottle attacks, 
 then there's the septic truck, or the media coverage missions.
  
  I have to compare Saints Row to GTA3 and on. GTA3 was almost casual fun (I finished it) , ViceCity 
 was the campy 80s feel (despite 20ish hours never got much into it) , SanAndreas was serious and 
 mission oriented (because of reviews I tried to enjoy but could not) . GTAs became too "hardcore" 
 for a casual player to enjoy. I'm sure those that played it full time for a week or more fell into 
 it easily but at a few hours a week you're constantly getting lost, being killed, and achieving 
 nothing. Plus the save system in SanAndreas was horrible. When you "die" in GTA you lose all your 
 weapons and a bit of cash. Since you won't try to do anything silly until you've got some good 
 stuff it's a huge penalty. Saints Row doesn't punish that much and after a cash donation you're 
 on the streets again. So, in short: The acting isn't as good as GTA, the music isn't as voluminous 
 as GTA, the scope isn't as grand as GTA, the graphics are about equal, but most importantly for 
 me the fun is much greater. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrewclifft
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  It comes with an 18 rating but is very childish, so that means its an adult game for children! 
 hmm. I tried to play this more to see if i could like it but i just couldnt. Ok so its not trying 
 to be GTA but it does owe a hell of a lot to san adreas wich is fair enough if it was fun to play. 
 I love to play sand box games but this just didnt excite me at all the cars are crap the combat 
 is crap the graphics are crap i found all the mini games boring. I just didnt get it. so if you 
 like childish humor and dont like a challenge then get this game. I did like character creation 
 it was very funny. starting a fight by sticking your finger up and telling someone to f off was 
 fun a couple of times. I also like the way you can throw people. I will be genorous and give this 
 game a 6 because it was fairly average. Lucky i only rented it because when it went back i just 
 put GTA 4 on and enjoyed a proper sand box game, one which is fun to play in a more adult way. 
 still you can always get saints row 2 for the kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gummy_joe
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 1:21 am PT
Review:  If you think that GTA4 is a bad game because of the lack in content that San Andreas had then this 
 i the game for you. This is the follow up to the THQ game released on Xbox 360 and PC last year, 
 while it hasn't got the graphics its rockstar counter part did it still offers what you would expect 
 from a game like this, fun.
  
  The game begins with you waking up in a prison hospital after the events of the last game, this 
 gives you the time to create your character, with a lot to customize about him, from the voice 
 of your avatar to the taunt that they will do, a little more on the taunts later, when you wake 
 up you escape hospital with the brother of a former saint. Now it is time to get the crew together 
 and take back the city. In the game there are 4 gangs you will face. The Ronin, a Triad group led 
 by a rich brat, the second is The Sons of Samedi, African Drug dealers who are led by a person 
 calling himself the general, The brotherhood are basically the outcasts of Still water and pride 
 them self on 3 things, cars, Tattoos and destruction. Finally is the Ultor corporation that comes 
 in near the end of the game. To take down each gang you need to do missions that will take over 
 the territory they own, and also destroy they're stronghold, unfortunatly the gang will eventually 
 get a bit frustrated that you have stolen what was they're property and attempt to take it back, 
 it is simple to take back your turf, kill X amount of luitenatents in that zone and you get it 
 back.
  
  The high light of the game is the mini games, to do a mission or stronghold you need respect, to 
 get respect do these mini games, some will ask you to jump in front of cars to get insurance money 
 or destroy X amount of property in this area of town. They can keep you entertained for a while 
 and offer some perks to your gang.
  
  There are a few flaws to the game, first off the Graphics aren't the best, they sort of seem more 
 at home on the Playstation 2 format, but that isn't that bad still. The next is the AI is a bit 
 moronic in bits, they don't do much, run and gun, run and gun drive and gun. sometimes the enemy 
 will stand there for a while allowing you to turn him into a cheese grater with a machine gun without 
 doing much.
  
  As I mentioned earlier there are taunts that can be used, while not serving much function other 
 than to stir people up they are fun to use, there is a large arsenal of insults, such as the tea 
 bag, the wanker and the finger, when you play through the game a bit more you get more
  
  While not The best it could have been it is still a pretty good game and is an excellent title 
 for anyone to have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: valium88
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 2:38 pm PT
Review:  Not anything you have not seen before. And the game doesn't exactly compensate with good graphics 
 and gameplay.
  
  Bad side:
  
  The AI is horrible.
  
  Driving is boring, and you have no feeling of speed.
  
  The characters movement-abillities 
 are very limited. 
  
  In-game sounds does not respond, to what could be expected from a game in 2008.
  
  the game 
 contains ragdoll physics which is fine, but not when the body moves away from the bloodpile and 
 still the pile grows with no body to drip from. And also if someone dies next to a table, the pile 
 will grow from the ground and suddenly appear on the table.. (hitman 1... long time ago)
  
  Drawdistance.... about the same as in the gta III Series.
  
  The graphics are not the most important 
 in a game, but I surely expected a little more..
  
  Good side:
  
  It has a great deal of fun in it.
  
  You can do a lot more than you can for example in Gta 
 4. Could maybe remind a bit of San Andreas..
  
  Lot of weapons.
  
  And of course humor... but that is sadly about IT...
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  fair but far from good.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scarface6793
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is basically the mechanics of Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas with better graphics and 
 totally through the roof UNrealism, which is not as bad as you would think.
  
  PROS
  Story- story is not that good.
  Shooting- there is no auto aim there is just free aim which is 
 fun but a bit too anoying at times.
  Driving- the driving handles like the previous generation of games did. FAKE. it is easier but 
 very very fake.
  Freedom- there is unlimeted freedom in the game, there are activities such as, aking over a sewage 
 truck and spraying septic sewage all over a building, you can go into an cage fight and beat the 
 living hell out of opponents, dress up as a cop on a show called'FUZZ' (parody of COPS) and assault 
 enemy gangs, ride a flaming atv and crash cars, get runover by vehicles to gain insurance money 
 and many more.
  Combat- almost like Def Jam: Fight For New York- totally fake.
  
  CONS
  Graphics- exactly the same as the 1st one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TLMartin
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  The Greatest game ever! a huge expanded map to free roam on, thrilling story and a hell of a lot 
 to do, The map of Stilwater has been expanded from SR1 from a tiny island to practically a state 
 its had a complete makeover theres now 2 extra islands on the map one for the nuclear plant and 
 the other as a prison, Ultor (a brand of designer sunglasses) have made stilwater into an urban 
 utopia over $300,000,000 have gone into the transformation but aswell as cleaning the streets they 
 also cleaned all the saints. You weren't killed on the boat you were just sent into a coma and 
 a considerable amount of time has passed since the old stilwater Johnny Gat is now on death row, 
 Troy is now the cheif of police and julius has completly and just to top it all of the old saints 
 crib has been demolished and a massive ultor building has taken its place. When you were sent into 
 a coma as the years passed three new gangs took the place of the rollerzs, los carnarles and vice 
 kings and they are the Brotherhood , the sons of Samedi and The ronin you must take out all three 
 gangs to regain stilwater and become king of the saints, as like the previous game saints row 2 
 is choc full of little mini games such as drug traffiking , insurance fraud and mayhem but also 
 feutures new ones like FUZZ where you must pose as an officer of the law and do whatever it takes 
 to apprehend criminals, There is a brand new boat full of wepons on this game suck samuri swords 
 mini guns and grenade launchers and there is so much much more about this game that i could tell 
 you about it would not fit in this review so remember Saints row 2 Buy GTA IV don't buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 16, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 did not impress me.
  I played the first one for quite a while, and this one just hasn't captured my intrest really.
 
  The game starts off with your as yet undesigned character in a prison hospital having been lynched, 
 and when the doctors are about to pull back the curtain to reveal you, the game transports you 
 into a menu system where you can create your character. 
  This is so detailed, and is probably the most detailed create-a-character thing I've seen, so much 
 so that I couldn; t be bothered to change every slide bar and I left my bloke similar to the stock 
 person. This, I might point out, wasn't the games fault, I just dont really like doing those.
 
  The story is strong in places and slips away in others. after busting yourself out from prison 
 there is a point where you are told to fill your respect meter, and to get this to the desired 
 amount take AGES. 
  I was already bored by this point, but once the game progresses agin its not so bad. 
  Right, 
 now onto the mainstay of a game review:
  Graphics:- The visuals in Saints Row are clearly not meant to be realistic, with a more cartoonish 
 approach, but in my opinion this falls flat on its face. The buildings look dull, the cars all 
 look the same and the character models all have the same footprint, man or woman, obese or anorexic. 
 Not good. 
  4/10
  Gameplay:- the controls are - as a whole - very good, with only a few problems. For example, to 
 change weapon (most likely needed in a fight) , you have no option but to stand still as you hold 
 circle and twiddle the left analogue stick to your desired choice while you get shot at and beaten 
 up. The vehicle control and movement is too floaty and doesn't feel right, but using L1 as "Cruise 
 Control" is a clever touch.
  8/10
  Sound:- The music in Saints Row is pretty crap, but thats just my taste, the clarity is very good, 
 and the voice acting is excellent. The only thing with the voice acting is that the lip-syncing 
 is poor, which kinda ruins it.
  8/10
  Lifespan:- With absoluely balls online, but a long story, I'd say Saint Row could keep someone 
 (who is enjoying it, that is) from getting bored with it for a good 30, 35 hours, but I couldn; t 
 have stayed that long. That sounds a lot, but just look at the DAYS of gameplay people have put 
 into CoD4, and will put into CoD5, online. Them two games set the benchmark for sheer lifespan. 
 
  7/10
  Overall:- All in all, Saint Row is fairly entertaining, but after a while you'll be playing Grand 
 Theft Auto or Call of Duty or Fallout again. Worth a look if your a fan of GTA sort of games, otherwise 
 your money is best spent elsewhere.
  7/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hillelslovak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 9:46 pm PT
Review:  I had SR1 for 360 and its still one of my favorite games this gen. It went areas that the GTA series 
 didn't dare go, and that's why I loved it. SR2 is just like the first, but expanded to no end, 
 and it excels in doing its own thing with the sandbox genre. 
  
  Gameplay- The core gameplay has not changed, but there has been lots of stuff added to SR2. 
 
  Customization-You can customize everything from your body, clothes, houses and homies to an insane 
 degree.
  Weapons- TONS of weapons. Some of the crazy weapons like the chainsaw, shock paddles, sledgehammer 
 bring stuff to the table that GTA IV could not match on terms of craziness.
  Activities- Tons of activities. Lots of the activities from SR1 have been tweaked, but they added 
 a lot of new, fun activities. I spent so much time just messing around playing activities.
  Diversions-Little sidequests like car surfing, hoe-ing, and Zombie Uprising are little extras that 
 add a good amount to the game.
  
  Sound/Visuals- Both are done very well. The sound cast is done very well, the music is decent, 
 and the sound effects are great. The visuals aren't too great, but SR2 has its moments. Honestly, 
 you'll be having so much fun playing the game, you wont notice that the graphics aren't top notch. 
 And isn't gameplay the most important factor?
  
  If you were disappointed with the lack of crazy things to do in GTA IV, then Saints Row 2 is perfect 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheProdigyIV
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:58 am PT
Review:  GTA Series, Held the title for the Best Sandbox Gangster Game, Not anymore. GTA IV was a great 
 game, But not as fun as this. Im not going to compare the two games, So lets talk SR2. The story 
 starts off, You are in a hospital after been in a Coma, From the Explosion of SR1. You get to change 
 your full character, Race, Hair, Eyes, Eyebrows, Body Build, Voice, Etc. You then break out of 
 Hospital/Jail, And the story continues. There is around 90 Businesses for your to buy and own, 
 There is multiple Gang Turfs you can take over, And the clothes choice and Jewelry is fantastic.
 
  This really sounds ironic, But this feels like the Sequel to San Andreas, It has Car Customization, 
 With virtually any vehicle to customize, So you can get a Little Pimp My Ride going, You can eat, 
 Drink, Smoke etc, All though you can not really get Drunk, Or high, But its still a nice but naughty! 
 Affect. The weapons are brilliant, Rocket Launchers, Grenades, Flamethrowers, C4, AK'S, M16'S, 
 Whatever. You can Buy cars too, Which is a nice feature, a 60 grand car which is very ugly, But 
 can be Customized to look really nice, and very fast for those races, All though in the races I 
 suggest racing with a better handling car, As the fast ones seem to be too loose. The characters, 
 Storyline, Are brilliant. The graphics are not bad, I'd say a 6/10 on the graphics, The glitches 
 come here and there, But the fun of this game makes it worthwhile. Must buy for any GTA fan, Or 
 any fan of just all out wild crazy fun. Just for the record, GTA IV is great, But serious, This 
 is Great, But wild and crazy, With Naked Streaking, Car Surfine, Spraying Human waste on peoples 
 Houses, The list goes on. 
  
  Graphics - 7/10
  Story - 9/10
  Sounds - 9/10
  Gameplay - 8/10
  Multiplayer - 4/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 continues off where Saints row 1 left off. Not they recently announced Saints row 
 3 which i couldn't wait.
  
  Saint row 2, similar to the GTA franchaise, is an opened-ended world game, otherwise known as sandbox. 
 The missions you do are pretty similar to GTA, but it's unique on it's own way. The fun factor 
 here is higher than GTAIV cause in GTAIV, things like planes and tanks which provided tons of fun 
 were taken away.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics here is great althought some said it's medicore. To me it's an sandbox game, the system 
 has a lot to render for a game this huge. I kind of expected the graphics in saints row 2 because 
 it's a sandbox game, i mean u can't possibly expect uncharted graphics unless somehow they learnt 
 to use the cell's power.
  
  Like other sanbox game, there's is image pop-in, but it isn't very serious and again, it's expected 
 in a sandbox game. The resolution is pretty high, the tatoos on ur skin, the earrings, the customisation 
 u made can be seen clearly even on 720p, explosions gets enough AA which makes it pretty-nice looking. 
 
  
  Gameplay:
  What i'm going to focus here will probably be comparisons to GTAIV since both are similar to get 
 you a better idea of what i want to say. This game, like GTA lets you free roam a small country. 
 In this country, you will find lots of islands, big or small. Under every island, there's some 
 form of grid lines with color to indicate who the land belongs to.
  
  The storyline is great, it really draws you in to the game despite fun side missions. But to do 
 main missions, you need reputation points which u can only gain from killing opponent gang members 
 or by doing size quests which gains u far more reputation points.
  
  There's many things to own in SR2, mainly your own customise vehicles, apartments where you house 
 ur clothings and gang members, also owning shops so that they pay you some money from their profits.
 
  
  There's very large variety of vehicles here, from bikes, to aeroplanes to helicopters to cars thats 
 very fast and rare, these vehicles you get hold of, you can sort of save them in ur garage. Why 
 did i use the word save? because even if you withdraw ur car, use it and lost it somewhere, it 
 would somehow return to ur garage.
  
  Similar to GTA, there's this phone system, you can do many things with it, from activating cheats 
 to phoning buddies for help, but there's no hassel of accompanying your friend to the burger join 
 or playing pool. The game is less on realife things but rather the gameplay is the focus of SR2.
 
  
  Side quests have a lot more variety and fun than in GTA. You get to do all the crazy things during 
 side missions, sometimes i anticipate them so much, i continue playing despite having enough of 
 reputation points.
  
  Weapons wise, there's guns, swordplays to hand combat. As you progress through the game, you get 
 to use different fraction's hand combat style which u can customise on ur charactor in plastic 
 surgeon. Weapons have some variety to them and they sound and handle well.
  
  Sound:
  I was really impressed that it's on DTS format on my home theatre. Explosions sounded real good. 
 My charactor voice is real sweet and natural sounding. Vehicles sounded very good as well. The 
 music station is one of the best in-game music i've seen, tons of sounds from different genres 
 you can find in the game, and customise as your own playlist.
  
  Overall, if you like GTA San Andreas, you should get this game, it brings the fun back to the sandbox 
 genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayhokkuu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Great customization with a  basis, gun fights, gang wars, and 
 a passing storyline, this game has it all. At the beginning, you create you character literally 
 from scratch. fat, skinny, old, young, girl, boy... you basically make your character look like 
 anything from Mr. T to Chuck Norris to Santa Claus to Mini-Me. Then, you got the gun fights. You 
 can hold up to like, ten weapons at a time. there's shot guns, miniguns, handguns, and yes even 
 sledgehammers and night sticks. every weapon feels almost just right (especially the mini gun) 
 but the only down fall to it is that you can't really use them that often or you'll start getting 
 chased by police that seem to come from out of nowhere (it doesn't stop me from beating up hobos 
 on the street with my sledgehammer) . Gang fights are somewhat rare (tho you will see your gang 
 members wandering around) and you can even build your own crib (which has a garage for all the 
 cars you steal) . You can take hostages (i like doing that with the cops, it's basically the only 
 way you can get away from them) and when you have them hostage you have a choice of things to do 
 : throw them what seems like a mile, blow their brains out, or break their neck like a toothpick. 
 I don't really have much to say about the storyline. It's passing, and nothing more then that. 
 NOW GO OUT AND BUY IT BECAUSE THIS GAME IS A MUST :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: X360Gurl
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  As sequals go, this is great! It's a simple game, pretty simple story line and easy to use controls. 
 Although there are a few flaws I've found, the worst being the driving at first. After the realistic 
 driving controls in GTA IV I thought that the Saint's Row driving was somewhat arcady, however 
 after a few hours you get used to it. Other than that the game is really really good. It's a fun 
 games and fun is pretty much what defines it. The game that it could be compared the most closely 
 with is GTA IV; the seriousness between the two is very different.
  I was very impressed with the character creation tool in Saint's Row 2. It's very detailed and 
 allows more customization than the Smackdown vs. Raw games which are very in detail with character 
 customization. There are faq's online that give you easy instructions on how to make someone famous, 
 they are easy to do and are a nice touch in the game. 
  If you have played Saints Row 1 then your going to notice a lot of similarities between the two 
 games, thing is it works so that why nothing was changed.
  Honestly the map is bag, theres a lot of cars, a LOT of cutomization options, good missions, the 
 script is good and most importantly this game is going to last you. In order to play missions you 
 have to complete side missions, or activities as they are known in the game, this can get annoying 
 sometimes but it's good because it keeps the game alive and you working for something. I have played 
 about 15 hours so far and I'm only 25% through the game. I explored for hours and only started 
 playing the actual missions are about 5 hours. 
  Whats more the cheats on this are great, if your up for a bit of fun then you can put on the never 
 die cheat and rampage through the city without the risk of dying and loosing all that nority. 
 
  Theres just so much to mention that there are things I haven't even touched on but I've got the 
 main stuff. The soundtrack is also great, with a lot of different genres on there. Definetly worth 
 a buy and I guarentee you it will last you longer than GTA IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigdapimp1220
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game built up to its hype and it matches GTA San Andreas. A lot of people said that GTA 4 
 just hyped up because you cannot buy houses and customize cars but i played it and it was okay 
 but it didn't have the same features as San Andreas. Saints row 2 is a big jump from the first 
 saints row. saints row had you canonized into the saints after being in the corner of where vice 
 kings were tagging a spot and the rollers beat them up and where the carnales came in on a drive 
 by. Julius and troy saved you and you joined the gang. This game is coming back from a coma from 
 the explosion from the previous game. In this game they tell you who caused the explosion and I'm 
 not gonna tell you who did it. But still you start off in the penitentiary island and you have 
 to escape. This is a very intense and action-packed game. It is a must buy for any fan of the GTA 
 Series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 2:35 am PT
Review:  Ok lets start it off with the obvious comparison between Saints Row 2 and Grand Theft Auto IV. 
 honestly i'm sure you have heard it again and again people going on about how these games are the 
 same or my favorite, Saints Row stole GTA's ideas. well let me just say this and get on with the 
 review, if you want fun, unrealistic, unadulterated mayhem then Saints Row is for you, if you want 
 great graphics with great physics and some realistic elements get GTA IV. personally i wanted both 
 in the same game so i compromised and got both =]
  
  anyway on with the review. . .
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Saints Row isn't what you would call 'graphically superior' by any means however that 
 doesn't mean that its ugly, some elements are actually quite stunning the fire alone looks great 
 especially with the heatwaves coming off it. despite what some people say there is no slowdown 
 due to graphics at all.
  
  STORY/MISSIONS:
  Ok like the graphics the story is a tad lacking and fairly predictable. everyone you would expect 
 to do something does it (trying not to say any spoilers) . anyway there are few twists and a weak 
 structure that is as predictable as whether the sun will rise tomorrow. But its not all bad the 
 story is saved by the pure fun of missions as well as the variety of things to do throughout the 
 game, for example one mission might be to stop a rival gang from destroying your turf while in 
 the next mission you might have to get to a concert in the back of a fireworks truck lobbing boxes 
 of explosive fireworks at cars that are chasing you. there is more variety in the side missions 
 one involves you donning a police uniform and showing a reality TV show some real police brutality, 
 while another will put you in a flaming suit destroying and torching everything in site.
  
  MUSIC:
  The soundtrack is great mixing metal rap and classical amongst others music making it 
 great for anyone of any taste really.
  
  CHARACTERS/VOICE ACTING:
  Now although you can create your own character you cant crate his/her dialogue and personality. 
 essentially you could be forgiven for thinking your character is a grade A d*** he kills people 
 for no reason he tortures people and all while having a certain sarcastic arrogance that paints 
 the picture of someone who should be shot in the face. . . but you cant help but fall in love with 
 your character, it might be something to do with the fact that this character was created by you 
 and you share that connection. love or hate the personality the character will be your very own 
 and with the best character creation system ever he/she will be all yours and completely unique. 
 the other characters are fantastic too in terms of looks and personality. This is a good time to 
 mention the voice acting which is great you will build an emotional connection with the characters 
 and this is largely due to the fantastic voice acting
  
  SOUND:
  The sound is ok by last generations standards. The standard pistol "pop" is present in this game. 
 I found myself disappointed in the sound in the first few minutes when the guns sounded like a 
 pop rather than a normal gun noise like it should make. saying this it is only a few guns with 
 dodgy sounds the rest sound fine. the cars sound excellent the V8s sound mean and tough while the 
 street racers sound fast and efficient like they should.
  
  CUSTOMIZATION:
  You can customize most things in Saints Row 2 from clothes to your hideouts, the customization 
 system is so intricate it makes it one of the things that makes this game so much fun. you will 
 find yourself taking time away from missions customizing your hideout with stripper poles and massive 
 TV's or nabbing an exotic car off the streets and taking it straight to the nearest garage to get 
 it tuned up. 
  
  SUMMARY:
  The game is great in terms of variety and action, the graphics aren't great, the story is ok but 
 not the best. the characters are likable and the character creation is second to none 
  
  basically if you felt a hole in the fun loving section of your brains after the seriousness of 
 GTA IV get this game as it will fill it and then some. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 on first impresssions will obviously scream for a comparisin between this and GTA4, 
 though it won't take much longer to realise that SR2 is certaintly no GTA4. It may obviously have 
 'alot' of inspiritation from the GTA series, but more of the classic, wacky and the absurd days 
 of GTA rather than the gritty, mature direction of GTA4.
  
  It definatly seems like sort of the GTA San Andreas of this gen, but even if it may not be all 
 that unique, that doesn't stop it from doing alot of things right and ending up as an immensly 
 fun sand-box game, if not one of the best around, definatly one that should last you a while.
 
  
  Being a direct sequel though you'de expect you'de have a much better experience already familair 
 with the characters and making particular plot twists all that more effective. While it is true 
 for some part, SR2 can still very easily be enjoyed without even a quick read-up from wikipedia 
 on the happenings from the first game. Its based in the same city from SR1, albeit a much expanded 
 one, and features alot of familair faces. But again the story is basically brand new right with 
 you been filled in with many new characters and alot of new gangs to contend with.
  
  SR2 story is succesful somewhat with the motivation, but how it plays out isn't as great as I'de 
 expected. The story has some entertainting cutscenes and very good voice acting, but the script 
 seems like its trying to be just a tad to 'gangsta' at times. The story too while filled with character 
 deaths all around and some rather enjoyable dialoque, it still at times just doesn't seem as motivating 
 as some 'other' crime storylines out there. Well for one SR2 won't take itself all that seriously 
 for the most part, the directing of the scenes is generally over the top, but still fun to watch 
 and should bring out a few laughs, but at the same time won't exactly have you feeling for the 
 characters or really having the urge to finally end The Sons of Samedi once and for all.
  
  Now that could be also due to the rather furtitous amount of side actitivies there are littered 
 around stillwater. Theres a very impressive variety from playing as 'actual' police officer 'apprehending' 
 ,AKA beating the absolute ragdoll pychics out of them, criminals and what have you, to spraying 
 sh** loads of.... sh** all over the city to destruction derbys to participating in fight clubs to 
 even feighing some seriously OTT injurys for the insurance money. As far as activites go, theres 
 alot to keep you sidetracked. Though what i didn't like is how there all blatantly handed to you. 
 You start them by simply making your way towards them and pressing the traingle button, but what 
 I don't like is how there simply just these glowing blue rings you walk into to enact the activites. 
 So you'll definatly know were to go to do what activities, but I always loved the mystery of traveling 
 around actually searching for things to do instead of having them all blipped on your radar.
  
  Fortuantly though the 'diversions' which are basically sort of smaller activites are hidden 
 around and while there listed for you in the objectives area, there not explained and how to initiate 
 them. There pretty simple though but still rather fun, they vary from taking a passenger hostage 
 when hijacking a car toooo say mugging someone to even whoring yourself off to some lonely lass/lad. 
 So as side missions go there indeed rather succesful in keeping you occupied, but still a little 
 dissapointing with them all so easy to come across.
  
  Now the overall gameplay of SR2 is of course very much any other sand-box game out there really, 
 though luckily with a few of its own touchs added in. Of course it plays out much like a first 
 person shooter for the most part with alot of driving around involved in (this is of course not 
 including the activities) . You can crouche but not go up against cover surprisingly which while 
 that fact does make the combat much more fast paced and hectic, is also seems to make the gunbattles 
 end much sooner than you'de like, what with since you'll constantly being shot at, the enemies 
 are relativly weak.
  
  What is a nice touch is the amount of improvised weapons that are all over stillwater just waiting 
 for you to pluck them out of the ground. From your typical chairs, fire hydrants and barrels you 
 may also turn parking meters, laptops or even trash bags into total your killing tools. Its always 
 fun to just search around for any other items that can be weilded and luckily there is quite a 
 number, usually if you see something that you move while walking into it, it can be used as a weapon.
 
  
  Back to the story aspect, there is quite a large number of missions to undertake, but sadly that 
 still doesn't lead to a rather large campaign. All of the missions are surprisingly short, while 
 still fun and varied (at times) they at most will probably only take around 12 minutes i'de say. 
 The missions themselves though can be fun, but can also get rather tedius with quite alot usually 
 revolving around taking down hordes of gang members. But you still get quite a few unique and epic 
 missions to undergo. Such as escaping from prison (the very first mission in fact!) to even heading 
 back to break out a drug expert. You'll be throwing fireworks at vehicles to assaulting boats complete 
 with its own army of sword weilding karate kids. Still, its not really like any of the missions 
 stand out, espeically since summing them up, they all do mesh together with just you shooting down 
 alotta 'muthaf*kers'.
  
  What is a nice addition, but sort of dragged down by the said fact of the missions not all being 
 that innovative, is that you may replay any completed missions whenever you want. At one of your 
 safehouses you simply walk over the newspaper blip and then select whatever mission you wish to 
 replay.
  
  Now of course i couldn't lead off gameplay without mentioning the customisation options. And for 
 the most part, there staggering at just how much control you have. Your character is definatly 
 the focul point. You may customise him very much like how you customised a Sim from Sims 2. You 
 have a large amount of slides to alter everything from an example, your cheek bones, you may customise 
 the height, the width, the density and many other ways to truelly create a work of art or an absolute 
 freakshow. Besides customising your look, you even get to 'somewhat' customise your characters 
 personality. 
  
  There is 6 voices to choose from, 3 male and 3 female (though can be assigned to whatever gende 
 you choose!) and while there isn't much variety with the voices, it makes up for it with just how 
 much dialoque your character has. Unlike the first SR your character will literally have just as 
 much dialoque as all the other main characters. You may also choose your characters taunt and complement. 
 To even how he/she may walk (again no matter which gender you pick) .
  
  Customisation though doesn't end there, though it does falter slightly from here on.
  The only 
 other customisation options you have at your disposal is vehicle and clothes. While there isn't 
 all that many clothes available, deep down there is many many different combinations to make with 
 all the different colours, $tyles and logo's.
  The vehicles though have a surprising amount of tuning to add on. From increasing the overall toughness 
 of the vehicle to adding all the typical bumpers ect. The colouring of your car is also very impressive, 
 with not only of course many different paint jobs for you to choose from, but also with even different 
 $tyles of paint jobs be it totally sun reflecting shine to a much watered down look. Vehicles can 
 definatly be made to look just how you want them.
  
  Whats more though is your also able to customise your gang to some extent, but its not all that 
 extensive.
  You may alter only so many aspects such as the $tyle of the gang, which is basically what clothes 
 they wear from say sporty to gangsta. Their sign, which is what taunt/compliment they have, and 
 the graffiti tag. You may also customise what vehicles they drive in, but sadly you don't customise 
 the vehicles. You simply choose from a decent list of already customised cars for your gang to 
 ride around in.
  
  You may 'also' customise your cribs/safehouses. But like that the gang is very limited with you 
 probably just buying the deeresr option. Each crib will have their own set of options, though there 
 all generally very similiar and theres not that much for you choose from etheir, it mainly ranges 
 from absolute crap-hole to a total pimped palace.
  
  STILL sticking with the gameplay (hey SR2 has alot to offer :P) the AI is also a sort of dissapointment. 
 Both the friendly and enemy AI isn't all that revolutinary with them for the most start just standing 
 there shooting at each other. They'll crouch at times but thats about it, they won't be on the 
 move or anything like that. What voltion did instead to make up for it is usually pit you against 
 a mass of enemys to blast your way through, but that said unless you are against a total army of 
 whatever, the combat will be over in seconds and without much fuss etheir.
  The main problem with the friendly AI is espeically attributed with you having no control over 
 them. You will eventually be able to recruit up to 3 homies (even story characters too) but all 
 they'll do is follow you around and attack whatever you attack. You can't give out orders or anything 
 of the sort. Which in the end might usually be a nuisance with your homiez sometimes dieing because 
 they chose to carry on following you instead of shoot that guy next to them with the 12 guage.
 
  
  They'll generally be of some help though, if not for attracting the enemys attention to at least 
 taking down an enemy or two. But one thing that impressed me immensly is their determination to 
 keep up. Such as you have 3 homiez and you hijacka 2 people car, what the 3rd homie will then do 
 is simply hijack his own vehicle and simply follow behind in his own vehicle. I honestly thought 
 it was sheer genuis to have that AI pattern 'finally' implemented and a surprising shock to still 
 see my other guy following behind.
  
  Now finally moving off gameplay. The sound for the game is genuily very good, the sound effects 
 all sound satisfying and as i said before the game has practically flawless voice acting. But what 
 does stand out is the soundtrack. Instead of GTA4's overall take on adding in some very unfamilair 
 bands SR2 stuck with whats popular, Theres a good variety of music available and while some songs 
 will be new to them, the 80s station for example will have alot of tunes everyone 'should' be familair 
 with and will already be at the ready to sing along :P. No chat stations though is a let down and 
 the adverts you'll encounter throughout the stations can be practically unnoticable at times and 
 at other times 'midly' funny at best, the music you can listen to easily makes up for the loss'.
 
  
  Graphically its rather good, its definatly not upto par with GTA4 sadly, but it does have its moments 
 were it'll stand out, but also have a few that make you cringe. Overall though the cartoony look 
 of SR2 is fun and colourful and while it could of looked better, it could of obviously looked a 
 hella lot worse.
  
  The game as whole should definatly last for you some time, if your fan of this time of thing. The 
 story could probably take at least 25 hours to complete, espeically with the respect meter you'll 
 have to fill with activites. The side activites available can last you long after the storys through 
 too. Whats more though is theres even a difficulty setting for SR2. There just yah typical easy, 
 medium, hard, but its reason enough to start again. If not just to make yourself a new character.
 
  
  Multiplayer is available too, co-op is here will absolutle blood filled barrels of fun to be had. 
 The competitive multiplayer though, while still better than GTA4's ain't anything special. It has 
 a ranking system to strive for but still doesn't compare to the co-op.
  
  So overall, SR2 for me is one of the greatest sand-box games around and just makes up for the HUYAGE 
 dissapointment that is GTA4. Its fun, its absolutle insane, its sadistic, it has months of replay 
 value, it has co-op, it has monster trucks and most of all... it has Eliza Dushku!!! 
  
  Final Score: 9.0/10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXJ0N0K3RXx
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  Somewhere along the line somebody decided "Hey you know what would be a good idea".
  "Whats that harold?"
  "Lets get a Pornstar as our executive Producer"
  
  So when did the 
 original Saints Row team decide that getting Tera Patrick (Porn Star) to be the executive producer. 
 Well i have no idea but it probibly involved somebody getting laid... thats all ill say.
  
  The Story:
  
  Saints Row 2 is set 2 years after the original where your character is brought 
 out of a Coma to find the saints to be gone and Stillwater to be taken over by the Ultor Corporation. 
 You follow on the predictable storyline which involves no twists to the absolutley Appauling ending. 
 At least there is a secret mission which gives a little bit of closure but makes you hate the character 
 you play at the same time
  
  The good
  
  For this Pros and Cons of this review i will be summing up simply very sorry its late
  
  Fantastic 
 Character customisation
  Great controls
  Good Voice acting
  
  The Bad
  
  Terrible Story
  Atrocious Glitches every 2 hours crashing the game
  Cheesy comedy
  
  Overall:
 
  
  Overall i am rating this game a four i just wish i hadnt of wasted my money.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnbabes
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 31, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  First off i never played the the first
  saints game so i can only base this on 
  saints row 2 and like most ps3 games out
  there you first have to install to your
  ps3 harddrive 
 which is ok it's just the waiting 
  once thats done then you can start the game pick 
  your level Easy to Hard since the first level
  is getting to know the game and the controls
 
  (this can be skiped) if you wish to do so
  the game starts off when your in hosptial
  this is where you get to pick yuor avatar
  for the rest of the game and this is a fun part
 
  once thats down you have to escape from the
  hosptial easy enough the the game starts proper
  now with any open world shooter gta will always 
 pop 
  up and i will point out this is very different to gta
  both in game play and the graphics which are not as
  good as GTA's where this game differs is 
 that you
  can do more or less what you want to do the way the cars
  handle is arcade ish it's like there stuck to the ground
  also there is no lock on for the guns 
 shooting can
  be a bit of a miss you can click L3 for a fine aim 
  system my first few hours playing saints 2 was
  not as good as gta outing the cut sceans and 
 the 
  way you interact with your so called gang can be fun
  and with lots of missions and side ones as well it
  does lift the game up and makes it that bit 
 more fun
  picking up items to hit some one :) some drop cash
  i also noticed some of the guys and girls on the streets
  just seen to stand there and not even 
 walk dont know if thats ment to happen and some of the back chat is kewl lol
  
  over all the 8 out of 10 is about right to get the most
  from the game there is a guide book 
 which you might
  or should buy i did find it hard going for a few hours
  since i; ve played gta to death and when you play this 
  game the controls are way different not 
 as loose as
  the other one to sum up this is just pure FUN
  
  enjoy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: War_Martyr
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  If Grand Theft Auto was known for giving gamers what they've wanted in videogames, then Saints 
 Row II is equivalent to parents that spoil their children. It not only rewards you with what you've 
 always wanted, it extinguishes that craving.
  
  This is the kind of game that offers exhilarating enjoyment by any means necessary. From the moment 
 that you are able to explore the city on your own free will, you will be wondering just what you 
 aren't able to do. You aren't obligated to do anything you don't feel like. The entire city is 
 open from the start, so whatever you wanted to do first, you are entitled to it.
  
  Saints Row II starts off one year since the incident of the first one. Even if you haven't played 
 the original, it's not required to fully understand the story, but at the same time it would help 
 to further understand key moments, characters and a few references. The city is largely unchanged, 
 so veterans of the first game will feel right at home.
  
  The game was clearly intended for those who take their sweet time, because love it or hate it, 
 the respect meter is the barrier between you and the next mission, and is the only part of the 
 game that loses credibility: you are the leader of a gang, and you must still prove yourself to 
 get your city back... but it is more of a minor complaint than an actual burden.
  
  In order to advance in the story, you must play a few rounds of Activities, basically random acts 
 of violence that reward you with money and respect. Again, I say it's a mior complaint, because 
 although it can be an anchor for those who want to finish the story quickly, the Activities can 
 be rather entertaining. Old favorites return, as well as new ones, such as Fight Club, Heli Assault, 
 and one that has you racing across the city, setting everything you see on fire.
  
  As fun as the Activities can be, the rewards for completing them makes it worthwile. Just about 
 completing any Activity or Distraction gives you something in return, ranging from cosmetic accessories 
 to boosting your performance: from unique clothing to faster health regeneration, to better sprint, 
 new weapons and unlimited ammunition.
  
  Activities start out ridiculously easy to challenging, and as addictive as they can be, by the 
 time you've got your fill of the rewards, you'd have enough to complete the story without any stops. 
 
  
  The story is nothing more than getting your city back from the three rivals that have taken control 
 during your absence. Each story plays out differently, based on the gang's specialty, is how you 
 ultimately wipe them out. The Sons of Samedi are the drug lords of the city, so most of the missions 
 have you destroying their profits and affecting the money they make. The Ronin is all about honor, 
 and missions have you making the leader look like a complete fool in front of his father. The Brotherhood 
 is the most grim, in which is more of a psychological battle, where boths sides are getting personal. 
 
  
  Aside from story, there is a lot of content. Just about anything you can think of is an ability 
 in the game. From car surfing to base jumping, tossing civilians off buildings... hell, you can 
 strip your character naked and play a streaking mini game, or slap on a trenchcoat and flash people.
 
  
  It's the kind of game that you just can't possibly find a complaint about. For every nuisance the 
 game can have, it also rectifies it. It's also the kind of game that doesn't take anything seriously. 
 In fact, you will find zero realism here. From the moment you break out of prison, shoot up a police 
 station, blow up dozens of buildings, shoot down gang members on a college campus, shoot down a 
 helicopter in an observatory, it's the kind of unreal action you would expect to see in a John 
 Woo flick. A little farfetched, but it is fun nonetheless. 
  
  As such, I've had more fun with Saints Row II than with any sandbox game thus far. Even after finishing 
 every possible distraction I wanted to, it was just entertaining to run around the city spreading 
 chaos without a care in the world, due to zero management in health or weaponry. 
  
  Some will say that having no worries in a game will make it boring or bad, but sometimes you just 
 have to take it for what it is. I mean, since when is having the divine power of never running 
 out of bullets for your uzi a bad thing? Sometimes having the world at your fingertips pays better 
 than anything with realism or innovation can offer: simple, old fashioned entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ocdog45
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is suppose to be fun. in my opinion, its boring. my biggest problem with the game is 
 the fact that you have to do side missions to continue through the story.
  
  the game is about the funny purple saints row gangs and how in 5 years stillwater has changed. 
 the city isn't memorable at all. its not liberty city. its so plain and nothing really sticks out 
 about it. crackdown had this issue but that game was way more fun.
  
  none of the gangs are memorable and almost profiling of different races. thats another topic. when 
 people say fun. they mean you can fly of a bridge and the laws of physics need not apply. nor does 
 shooting someone. explain to me how someone just starts flapping after they die.
  
  customization is cool and you make you player just like he was from the first one. although if 
 they had a way of keeping your player from the first one, that would of been better.
  
  you can spend countless amount of hours in this game, but why. its not memorable and nothing her 
 is gotta have. with so many games coming out, you cannot waste you time with something like this. 
 rent LATER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: capedbear
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 28, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  This game was a good surprise for me, you can customize so many things : your cars, your crib, 
 your gang, your tags, your clothes ... That's one of the very cool features. I also love the checkpoints 
 feature so you don't have to replay from the start if something bad happens to you. Unfortunately 
 some missions are glitchy or unbalanced. Some missions are mere run and gun and I just hate it 
 when you have to take down waves after waves of enemies in a hail of bullets. I also wish you could 
 take proper cover as in Drake's Fortune. If someone does the driving for you, you might get stuck 
 alongside a wall with a driver too dumb to find the exit. I also remember a mission where you had 
 to use flash-bangs made hard because you barely had time to change weapon and aim at your target. 
 To sum it up : Saints Row has some very good missions, neat ideas but some of them are poorly implemented.
 
  
  
  You can control a lot of vehicles such as cars, bikes, trucks, boats, choppers. You will notice 
 that you can make really sharp turns using the handbrake. Not too realistic but quite fun. The 
 controls can be tricky though, especially when you have to drive a vehicle with the left stick 
 and at the same time shoot at a moving target aiming with the right stick. Now the helicopter controls 
 are so terrible that it prevented me from beating the last mission because the craft did not respond 
 quickly enough. 
  
  
  As far as graphics are concerned you could expect much more from a PS3 game. Now if you're not 
 too demanding, I suppose it is something you can forgive because there is a lot of humor in Saints 
 Row and tons of things to keep you busy. The story missions are varied with great cut-scenes. The 
 side missions are necessary to fill your respect gauge and allow you to play a story mission each 
 time you gain a respect level. In my gaming experience I've never seen such a choice in side missions 
 and activities. Too bad there are also glitches ruining the experience for some of those activities.
 
  
  
  The sound is great with awesome music. I think there's enough music to accommodate quite a lot 
 of people actually. In conclusion, I would say Saints Row is an enjoyable game in spite of some 
 downsides. If you're a die hard GTA 4 fan there's a chance you'll snob this game. Yet it's definitely 
 worth playing if (like myself) you're a fan of the old GTASA style. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordfayt
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2008 6:18 am PT
Review:  I recently started playing saints row at first i thought it was another company use the GTA market 
 to make some quick cash but i was wrong!
  if you check my GTA review you will see how much i hate gangster game using the GTA market and 
 destroying the market for good games, well saints row 2 has actually tried to make a NEW type of 
 sandbox it has the typical settings of a lose story with fun things to do when out and about but 
 the character creation is the best ever, in these games i hate having to play as some american 
 black guy who loves rap because that couldnt be further from the truth and in saints row two i 
 chose to be an english rocker and i love my character.
  the missions in the game do get kinda samie but they are still fun and the intros show you as smart 
 and skillful, for instance someone kills your mate so you take there girlfriend lock her in the 
 boot of her own car and park it in a monster truck show so her boyfriend kills her! thats a great 
 idea.
  the graphics in this game are avaerage for a current gen and there are some glitches none big enough 
 to cause problems.
  over all this game trys realy hard to be current gen and acomplishs that with the amount of custimizeation 
 in this game, they havent made it too real world soo being shot point blank with shotgun hurts 
 but you get better not too metion more than a couple of good laughs along the way.
  over all i Highly reconmend this game and it has now become a favourite of mine as a boundary tester 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cap-
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 5:21 am PT
Review:  the game was not what i expected the frame rate is not the fastest and it was too easy on hard 
 mode . but it was good fun to play and very comical .
  the best part of the game was the customization the cars your player and your cribs .
  the world 
 in not as big as the as gta series but sr2 has sharper colors . i would nod buy this game if you 
 can rent it the i would recommend doing the but overall it was ok but i would had prefer a longer 
 game 
  
  my rating is a 5/10 it is not the best or the worst game
  
  this review was dun buy cap- plz leave you comment on my review and thx for reading
  psn = cap-
 
  
  xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxx
  xxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxx xx xxx x
  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx
  xxxxxx
  xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx
  xxxxxxx
  xxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx
  xxxxxxxx 
 xx
  xxxxx xxxx xxx
  xxxx xxx xxxxxxx 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skunkynz
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  saint's row 2 was a cool game had me on the edge of my seat, my nephews and i had a really good 
 time playing this one, Come on i know its r18 :) but what you gonna do aye? they enjoy blowing up (trucks 
 and trailers) along with attack helicopters here and there lol 
  its very much like gta 4 but this is much better, you get weapon's that are much better than the 
 ones in gta 4
  plus the range of cars truck's vans bikes helicopters, and plane's are a lot better , you can hot 
 pretty much every car or truck up you want, 
  also there is some really cool and fun missions, some are really rude to lol, boys cover your eyes 
 lol
  Now i didn't play saint's row 1 because its a ps2 game but when i herd they were making it for 
 ps3 wow i had to get my copy, and when i did i was very happy
  like over the moon happy :) . 
  Now that i have played saint's row 2 the boy's want me to get 
 saint's 1 lol but im all for it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: briang3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:21 pm PT
Review:  The Saints Row 2 ad comparing activities to GTA4 hits the nail on the head. This game is so much 
 more fun than GTA4. The imaginative missions and activities, the rich environment and great characters 
 make this a world worth exploring. As GTA tried to go the serious route, I think they forgot what 
 fun truly is. It is not playing simulated pool or constantly being called my your friends for a 
 man-date. The crazy customization of your character also makes the cinematics funny as hell. Running 
 around in a Borat bikini is the best and the worst! Some cons are cars don't handle as well as 
 GTA which feels more realistic and cars spawning sometimes is very sparse. I've spent quite a bit 
 of time running in the game. Overall the game is great and I have looked forward to the missions 
 and side activities, as opposed to playing GTA4 and getting annoyed everytime my phone rang and 
 it was Roman looking to go eat somewhere. This game you can escort girls, fly a heli, spew sewage 
 on people, dress as a hotdog, steal a burger combo car and join a fight club! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grasshopperboy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  i have been looking forward to sr2 as soon as i heard that it was coming out on PS3 and as soon 
 as it did i hired it and it was an extremely fun game to play some good things about the game are
 
    A good storyline that keeps you interested in the game
    Lots of things to do outside of missions sometimes you'll find yourself not doing the storyline 
 missions at all
   Lots of customization in the game
   Heaps of melee weapons to choose from including my personal favorite the samurai sword
   Heaps 
 of weapons to choose from like RPGS and sniper rifles
    The melee combat is really gory and satisfying
    And last but not least you can cover people 
 with sewerage and who doesn't like that
  
  
  So all in all SR2 is a fun game to play, don't get me wrong there is a few problems with the game 
 like Glitches with the AI and it becomes really frustrating when they won't do what you want them 
 to do but the game makes up for this by creating a fun environment that really sucks you in to 
 the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brunte81
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is a fun game. You can do all kind of wierd stuff and you will have fun just driving 
 around the city and not following the story missions.
  
  But it's year 2008 and I'm playing this game on a PS3. And the graphics in this game is not the 
 best and I must say that sucks. PS3 and HD, I like to see much better graphics. It's not all that 
 bad, some clothings and effects look great. But the rest look very old and boring.
  
  I also HATE how people and cars pop in and out when you move the camera. For example I'm looking 
 for a car, I find it and must make a U-turn and then it's gone. Very stupid and I don't know why 
 they made the game work like that. Also corps are gone way too fast.
  
  And I find it a bit stupid that I can kill people and not much happens. Too much freedom maybe?
 
  
  The police system is also stupid. They just go for killing you. Even if you just run into them. 
 And the police is also stupid, you can stand on same spot for hours killing gang members and police. 
 After some time it becomes just stupid and boring.
  
  And now over to the vehicle control. Worst control ever. It's pain to drive around. So again stupid.
 
  
  Saint Row also have Hookers like the GTA games, but I have not found any way to pick them up. They 
 talk to me and I have seen them talk to other people on the street... but you can't pick them up. 
 Stupid.
  
  So is there anything I like about this game? Yes, I like the cars.. some are very nice. I like 
 the weapons. I like the shops and some missions are fun. And the music is super in this game. Much 
 better then the GTA games.
  
  So what do this game need for Saint Row 3? Better graphics. It can have so much better. City system 
 like the GTA games. NO MORE GONE WHEN YOU MOVE THE CAMERA PLEASE! Better AI on gang members and 
 the law. Better looking characters. Better sound, sometimes the voice is very high sometimes it's 
 not. Less clock missions. Something like that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: junor69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:58 am PT
Review:  Well how can I describe the game that's just pure fun to play?
  It's not gta4 and thanks god for that, SR2 is just pure fun and very addictive from start to finish.
 
  
  The story isn't that long any one can finish it over weekend but there are so many extra activities 
 that will keep you entertained for hours at time.
  
  SR2 delivers everything that GTA4 failed to and then again it fails to deliver what GTA4 did,
 
  the game is full of bugs and graphics aren't any wear near of GTA4 standard.
  
  The bugs in game aren't very major and most are just funny and it's probably the only time bugs 
 like that can be forgiven.
  
  What SR2 does well it offers the player to be a hard core Gangster and it does this very well.
 
  Well you back from dead and you are here to take the city that use to be yours back and you will 
 have fun doing it, lots of people will get killed and you be doing most of the killing 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scrawneystick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:15 am PT
Review:  Saints Row 2 is desinged to be a crazy, fun-filled adventure that can challenge GTA's position 
 as king of the sandbox games. Now I loved GTA IV, I regard it as the best game available on the 
 current generation of consoles but some of the fun that was present in the previous games was missing 
 as IV became more realistic. This fun is ever-present in Saints Row 2 which makes this a game that 
 never takes itself seriously. This time THQ aren't trying to take R* on head-to-head but rather 
 picking up gamers who have played GTA IV through and through and want an alternative that isn't 
 quite as serious.
  
  The best way that I can describe Saints Row 2 is as a next-gen San Andreas. The similarities are 
 obvious with a lot of the good features from SA being included here, such as: parachuting out of 
 planes, gang wars, gang territories, customisation options, getting homies to ride round with you 
 and the ability to buy businesses. Being a next-gen SA isn't a bad thing in the slightest as we 
 all know that SA was a great game and playing a slightly beefed up and less vast version of the 
 game like Saints Row 2 works brilliantly. Added in are features from GTA IV such as the phone (although 
 it isn't used as heavily or as easily accessible as in GTA) . There are some subtle digs at the 
 GTA series, for example in an early mission you have to shoot up a casino to get at a rival gang. 
 One of your gang forms a stealthy and detailed plan to get the money out of there unseen, Johnny 
 has a better idea, "why don't we just go in there and shoot everyone on sight... it'll be more 
 fun". That sums up the two games perfectly, GTA leads the player on a winding journey with epic 
 moments where as Saints Row prefers to just blow things up, and it works.
  
  Moving away from the GTA comparison for the moment, Saints Row 2 offers a number of new features 
 that help improve the longevity of the game. The most entertaining of these are activities such 
 as Septic Avenger where you spray things with human waste in order to create havoc, Crowd Control 
 where you act as a bodyguard for a celebrity and get rid of crazy fans for them, Fuzz which is 
 a parody of COPS but instead of making arrests the cameraman just films you killing criminals in 
 lots of different ways and Trail Blazing where, wearing a flame retardant suit and on a quad bike, 
 you set anything you like on fire while racing round through checkpoints. There are more additions 
 and all help add replayability with 6 levels per activity. Some old favourites return such as Escort 
 and Hitman and since I got the game 3 days ago, I've played for 12 hours and only completed about 
 10 missions because these activities are so fun.
  
  All these new additions are all well and good but Saints Row just wouldn't be Saints Row without 
 some customisation. Well, the level of customisation in this sequel is huge. Starting with the 
 character creation you are immediately impressed with the amount of options on offer here. I'm 
 going to stick my neck out and say you could create just about anyone or anything that comes to 
 mind. My character is a blonde haired, babyfaced guy with a strong jaw who sounds like Todd Carty 
 (for anyone who's ever seen EastEnders or Grange Hill) . The voices on offer are one flaw with the 
 character creation with only 3 on offer per sex but they are pretty diverse so every type of character 
 should be catered for. Once you've made you're character and got your gang together you can customise 
 them. Everything from style (my favourite being Pimps and Hos) , the gang's sign (I went for the 
 Fonz-like "Ehhhh") and the cars they ride round in can be customised with more cars being unlocked 
 as you play through the game. The customisation options aren't just for fun though, they allow 
 the player to create their own unique gameworld that is right for them which instantly brings a 
 connection to them, their character, their gang and their game.
  
  Back to the GTA comparison here and like R*'s bestseller, Saints Row 2 has a radio system used 
 in game. Included are news reports and adverts similar to GTA's in-game radio although Saints Row 
 2 doesn't include a TV network, just the chance to view cinematics and play a 3D survival horror 
 game. The adverts used are funny but slightly less satirical than in GTA's and the news reports 
 are limited to one story about your latest mission success. However, I believe that the soundtrack 
 is slightly better than in GTA. I liked GTA's soundtrack but there were no real standout classic 
 songs except from Queen's "One Vision". In Saints Row I can count about 4 or 5 with the biggest 
 being the 80s classic "Final Countdown" which my character likes to singalong to, albeit really 
 badly. Throw in the fact that you can create your own radio station via the playlist function on 
 the menu and you have a brilliant radio network that covers every genre and taste. You can also 
 find CDs littered about Stilwater which unlock extra tracks that can be added to your playlist.
 
  
  The AI in the game is also brilliant. Yes there is a lot of scripting and odd events happening 
 like pedestrians just appearing in the middle of the road but they are minor glitches compared 
 to some of the random things that happen on an average day in Stilwater. The biggest highlight 
 for me was when a massive fight happened between 2 guys near my crib. During which one of the fighters 
 sprays pepper spray in a cops eye and the cop beats him down. The fighter fights back and throws 
 the cop 20 feet through a fence and into a wall, the cop gets up and casually walks over to him 
 and blasts him with his shotgun and all in the space of 30 seconds. Glorious! You also see carjackings, 
 people jumping off buildings and gangfights on the streets. However, once you team up with a gangmate 
 in a mission, the AI does let itself down. It'll shoot at the wrong people and go the wrong way 
 but any decent gamer will be able to make up for their mistakes.
  
  Finally, we have the main thing about the game, the story. There's a reason why I've saved this 
 till last and thats because I wanted to emphasise that the story is almost just a side feature 
 to the game. You don't feel pressured into moving onto the next mission at some pace, which is 
 a bit of a shame as with all the things you can do in Stilwater it feels as though the story is 
 just another activity. However, if you actually play through a few missions the plot holds up pretty 
 well. You start off fresh out of prison on a jailbreak as a person recovering from a coma induced 
 from the original Saints Row ending. You're left on your own with your old gang disbanded and with 
 the task of making them big again. It has a similar feel to San Andreas and in many respects the 
 story follows that vain although you don't meet as many crazy or corrupt characters as in SA. The 
 missions are also strong with no having to pick people up and drop them off early on as seen in 
 GTA, instead you commit jailbreaks, kill rival gang members and recruit new gang members by doing 
 errands such as towing someone's car for them. However, deep down it is the same drive and shoot 
 mechancic that is the staple of the GTA series. The cutscenes are also a highlight with some funny 
 dialogue and revelations made, you also see the news play a role during the cutscenes with the 
 local reporter standing reporting on past missions that you have done. This is something missed 
 out on in GTA.
  
  The story is good but it isn't as epic as Niko's story in GTA IV or CJ's story in SA. You feel 
 that everything is quite linear and there are no actions the player can do to change the outcome 
 of the story as in GTA IV. The missions are also good throughout but the games big set-pieces such 
 as setting fire to a farm from a helicopter never quite match the Three Leaf Clover mission in 
 GTA IV. It will keep you playing through to the end but you'll struggle to remember a particular 
 mission in great detail and you won't be too fussed about starting again to replay the story.
 
  
  To conclude then, Saints Row 2 is a definite improvement on it's predecessor and is now the main 
 challenger to GTA's throne. It is obvious that much of the work that has gone into the game was 
 based on trying to match San Andreas and very little has gone into competing with GTA IV. However, 
 because of this they have been able to increase the fun that was seen in San Andreas while also 
 bringing it into the next-gen arena and adding a few brilliant new features. Saints Row 2 is a 
 game that is all about fun and putting a smile on the face of almost all gamers. It also has a 
 solid storyline and in Stilwater, a vibrant city although not quite as brilliant as Liberty City 
 and that is best way I can sum up this game. It's very good but not quite at the level of GTA IV. 
 This is a game for people who have finished GTA IV and want an alternative that is easily accessible 
 but also to those who thought that GTA IV lacked some of the magic and fun seen in SA, Vice City 
 and GTA III. Either way, I'd reccommend this to any fan on the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheodenofRohan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 11:16 pm PT
Review:  Where to start on this game. It is simply amazing. Course there are some minor flaws that make 
 you wanna say "what was that?!" Just minor bugs really. 
  
  1. The story follows that of Saints Row which I was thrilled about. I originally thought "oh a 
 new SR an new chars ect ect ect" I couldn't have been more wrong! I love how its a direct follow 
 up.
  
  2. The music in SR2 is rather opinion based. What I mean is there is some good music and some very 
 very bad ones. So in my opinion it was good enough for me
  
  3. The voice overs tend to loop after while and so doesn't the lead characters as well but its 
 a easy look over when your driving along and killing some Ronin :P
  
  4. The customization aspect is nice to a point, it does get a little limited in parts but not by 
 much.
  
  Lastly there are some nice surprises along the way in SR2. Nothing big for hardcore fans of GTA4 
 (which I didn't like) Example is the CDs that needed to be found and the nice new clothes you could 
 buy like a the Gladiator helmet and the Barrett .50 cali Sniper!!! YES its there just not by that 
 name and heres a fun test to prove its a .50 cal, when a ronin is coming at you in a car or on 
 a bike shoot it dead in the front if done right the car explodes XD and the bike can throw the 
 rider off! Its quite funny... and Gat is back and he funny as it gets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:56 am PT
Review:  Putting this out of the way, Saints Row 2 is completly different from Grand Theft Auto IV. In saying 
 this, the graphics of SR2 don't compete with GTA IV at all. GTA's graphics are 10 time better. 
 Even though SR2's graphics don't live up to GTA's, it certainly gives you more to do and pick your 
 missions in what order you would like them to be in.
  
  In SR2 start out in a jail cell. You are in bad condition after yor boat accident and you must 
 change your face ( custamize you character) . After that, Carlos, a 3rd Street Saint come to break 
 you out of jail. The mission continus and you are evntually put out on the streets again. Once 
 i was out in open sunlight, the games brightness seemed a tad too bright ( dont know if it was 
 my TV) .
  
  The game offers a lot of things to do, with mad activities like trail blazing and crowd control, 
 ( many others as well) . New gangs are into the street, the ronin, the sonm of samedi and the brotherhood. 
 The mission for me were so easy, i didnt die once, and i was ont he hardest level. Apart from that, 
 the missions are great too play and you dont always have to drive around like GTA. Driving and 
 running is very unrealistic and i think that throwing people is so cool. Also, getting ashield 
 for extra protection is great and helps you out.
  
  Overall SR2 brings joy to the game but it could improve visually.
  
  7.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Angels_Airwaves
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:26 am PT
Review:  The first Saints Row released with a bang. It filled the game for those sandbox/open world gamers 
 craving for the next gen GTA to hit the shelves and it helped filled that void until then. But 
 now Saints Row 2 has been finally released and all I got to say is wow. The game opens up with 
 your character waking up after 5 years of being in a coma in the state prison hospital. Your character 
 was badly burned from the first game and he went under some facial reconstruction and yes even 
 a sex change. The gameplay in Saints Row 2 has not changed one bit from the first game besides 
 adding some more weapons, enhanced the melee combat and also finishers to your 3 hit combos. The 
 graphics have taken a step up sinse the first game and you'll notice this instantly when the game 
 first loads up to allow you to create your character. There are suttle details you'll come to appreciate 
 in the city of Stilwater such as when you take two or more of your homies along with you, if you're 
 driving a 2 seater car, the homie that is left out will actually hi-jack a car from a random civilian 
 and follow. It's details like these that really make you go "wow" in the game. The game is filled 
 with tons of activities to complete if you feel like having some fun inbetween missions and this 
 extends the playtime even more. The game is a great addition to your 360/ps3 library and if you're 
 a fan of sandbox games, you will not be disappointed with Saints Row 2. This game is what GTA 4 
 should have been, in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stankmuffin
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:06 pm PT
Review:  I liked Saint's Row 1 & was really excited about the 2nd one coming out. I like both GTA IV & SR2 
 for different reasons. I like GTA IV for: the awesome online multiplayer, great graphics, the large 
 map, the fact you can go just about ANYWHERE, the (different from other GTAs) storyline & the social 
 interaction complex (Niko's relationships w/ others. I like SR2 for: main player can be a female, 
 vast customization with cars, faces, outfits; the plentiful amount of mini-games & its really funny. 
 That being said, I will continue to play both GTA IV & SR2 because they both offer different aspects 
 that like. I wish there were more games out like this besides just two b/c anyone (if they do it 
 right like GTA IV & SR2) will make a lot of money if they were to make this game! Its definitely 
 worth owning. I have yet to check out the multiplayer but I doubt it surpasses GTA's b/c all the 
 glitches I've heard about plus. Who wants to play multiplayer when you got: snatch, insurance fraud, 
 fuzz, escort, tax driving, ambulance driving, ransoming (kidnapping) , trailblazing, drag racing, 
 fight club & mayhem... just to name a few of the mini-games available. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silentflame55
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:23 pm PT
Review:  ok let me start by saying that i like saints row better than any GTA always have. San Andres is 
 the only GTA that comes close to giving you the level of fun that SR2 provides. tons of weapons, 
 cars, and stuff to do . even after the game you arent done with stuff like the cabbit and the seret 
 missions, to get 100 percent will literally take a week. it is a must buy for any fan of the genre. 
 yet what really sells the game is the customization. everything can be changed , cars , quads, 
 your crib, and your guy, heck go streaking if you want , and yes you can do it in the game, theres 
 so much to do its so fun its a must buy, i kno its hard to chose between daed space, and and fable 
 2 now out , but its worth it, its crude jokes make the game very funny, and its a nice break form 
 the seriousness of GTA 4, the easter eggs are a nice touch too, there are countless metal gear 
 solid references , red fraction, just theres to many to say, the music oh man great ok, i love 
 the 80s and every great song is on there no joke lol Do you come from a land down under, yea it 
 dont matter where you come from get this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfomega023
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is incredibly fun, better than any other game of it's class, a crime adventure sandbox. 
 The graphics are pretty good, the story is amazing and well put together, and the fighting - both 
 melee and gun fights - are awesome. The driving takes some getting used to, and the character development 
 is very detailed and fun. Saints Row 2 is better than so many other game like itself, not pointing 
 any fingers. In this game, you just want to live the gangtsa life style and enjoy it. You will 
 actually have the chance to do whatever you want and have fun. When you try out any of the mini 
 games - I suggest Insurance Fraud. You will just eenjoy it all the way through, even if you are 
 not the gamer type. This is a definite MUST GET game for fans of any crime series who just want 
 to have fun and enjoy video games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:07 am PT
Review:  When I first played Saints Row a few years ago I enjoyed it and would really liked to see a sequel 
 to it. Well now here it is and I enjoy it just as much as I do the first one. I thank they could 
 of did some stuff to the game to make it a lot better than it is though.
  
  Saints Row 2 is really funny at time and it will have you laughing out loud. The story in Saints 
 Row 2 is a lot better than it was in the first one. The customization of the characters is also 
 a lot better and is outstanding. There's so much stuff that you can customize in the game and that's 
 one of the things that really make it great and stand out from other games.
  
  One of the things about the game that I don't like are the graphics because they a really bad. 
 I mean come on it seems like they didn't want to put that much effort into them at all. It isn't 
 a big deal that they are bad but if you look at Saints Row 2 then look at all the other game on 
 the market you can see there could have been huge improvement in that area.
  
  Overall Saints Row 2 is a game that you'll most likely want to check out especially if you played 
 the first one and really enjoyed it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TMLE
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 21, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Crap Graphics completely put this game in the bin. This game has nothing against GTA, at all. The 
 story line is alright, but with lack of good graphics its like playing a ps1 game on a PS3. Crap 
 rendering, This game makes the PS3 look bad. Luckily its on 360 aswell.
  
  If this game had GTA 4 like graphics. it would be a must have game. the cars are absolute crap. 
 Worst Car models ever on a PS3 and 360 ever seen. On a 360 and PS3 game the cars should look like 
 they do on GTA4 . Realistic. This game was a major let down. And its a disgrace to the original. 
 GTA4 is a 50 times better version of this game.
  
  
  If you really must have this game, dont bother buying it, go rent it. Its not worth more than $20.
 
  
  -----------------------------------------------------
  ----------------------------------------------------
  -------------------------------------------------
 
  -------------------------------------------------- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mystery323x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  I really think this game is a lot more fun the GTA4 and has a lot more replay value. Here is a 
 quick review break down.
  
  Story- I played a decent amout of the story. The story seems interesting and pretty fun. The cutscenes 
 often make you laugh at the stuff that happens. The game does refer to saints row 1 to pretty lot. 
 But dont have to beaten Saints row 1 or played it to get into this games story.
  
  Gameplay- Unrealistic like Saints Row 1 but tons of fun. Using people as shields/ throwing them 
 into things. Driving cars is like saints row 1 its fun in an unrealistic way.
  
  Online- Its alright , but im not into console games like this online.
  
  Customization- The 
 Customization is great in this game. When you create your character you could change pretty much 
 anything. When you buy clothes you could change colors on a bunch of things and even add logos. 
 You could customize your cars a lot more than you could in saints row 1. You could pick how you 
 want your gang members to look , even there cars (Not to a great extent but you have a few choices 
 for that) .
  
  Overall- I think this game is a good buy and has a lot to offer. Will most likely have some Downloadable 
 content to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dannylee2626
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 4:03 am PT
Review:  Let's get one thing straight, I thought gta 4 was a great game. It pushed the genre forward and 
 rockstar tried to do something new with the series by making it more serious and a little less 
 tongue in cheek.
  
  Saints row on the other hand has gone in the opposite direction. The gangster creation tools allow 
 you to be be as creative as you want. From muscle bound hoodlums to cross dressing, obesse ninja 
 clowns with ladies voices. This allows you too make the game comical and fun before you even begin 
 your criminal career.
  
  Im not going to spoil the plot for people, but lets just say it complements the crazy character 
 designs. During your first few hours in Stillwater you can escape from prison, become the ultimate 
 fighter in fight club or become an actor in the fantastic Fuzz mini game. From radio-active Tatoo's 
 to zombie survival video games that can be played at your hideout, the game never shoe-horns you 
 into a serious role.
  
  As in the first Saints row, you have to earn respect to qualify for the games story missions. As 
 you complete various activities such as the fight club you fill your respect meter. The big differnce 
 between this and other sandbox game is that this never becomes a chore. The violence is too over 
 the top and cartoony to be taken seriously and i am yet to tire of being able to through hostages 
 twenty feet in the air! Im actually surprised this has found its way int gta at some point.
  
  Another special mention has to go to the soundtrack, which is much improved from saints 1. 
 whatever your musical taste, you'll find some thing here for you. In fact, i believe this is the 
 first sand box game that has done the metal scene justice. From lamb of god to Opeth. Great tunes!
 
  
  Now we come to the negatives, a few faults have found thier way back from the first game. The systems 
 memory only seems to keep the objects that are in you line of sight in storage. For instance, if 
 a car is driving towards you turn around then turn back and, chances are it will have vanished. 
 The game is also quite buggy. I have'nt found any thing game breaking, but they are there. Also, 
 the games humour seems to suffer from comparisons with gta, coming off as just rude instead of 
 reasonbly clever like gta. On the other hand, it does fit in with the overal stlye of the game.
 
  
  Anyt way, thats my 2 cents on the game. If you want Gta 5 this will disapoint you. Its like the 
 anti-gta, stupid, over the top and, most of all-Fun!. On a side note, Being a British gamer, i also 
 liked the option to pick a cockney accent for my avatar and have it spoken in the cutscenes. It 
 gave my dude an attitude that is sadly missing in the largely americanised world of video games 
 and id love to see this option in future releases!
  
  Enjoy the game folks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcaesp_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:38 am PT
Review:  For an in-depth review, read GameSpots Saints Row 2 review.
  My opinion is that Saints Row 2 is a fun game that does what GTA 4 didn't which is, GO CRAZY.. 
 Don't get me wrong, I still think GTA 4 is a better game but Saints Row 2 gives you that GTA 3 
 kind of "anything goes" feel. If you are a fan of open world "sand box" if you will (damn that 
 term is getting old) , then Saints Row 2 is sure to scratch that itchy trigger finger. The character 
 customization is very deep and it's easy to spend several hours just getting your character to 
 look just right. One down side is the three (male) voices you can choose from are a bit cheesy 
 and it would have been nice to have different accents like Australian, Asian, etc.
  On a side note, If you live in Australia or New Zealand, I recommend you pick up the special edition 
 with the "Saints" basketball top. I have been wearing it every day since buying the game..... ooooh, 
 that's what that smell is... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KevinConklin
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I was a bit skeptical buying this game. I heard people complaining how grainy the picture was, 
 how clunky the controls were, and just how unpolished the game was as a whole. I would like to 
 be the FIRST to say, the negative hype is wrong!
  
  GTAIV was a great game. While playing through the story, the player is intrigued by the plot, and 
 in awe at the graphics. However, upon completion of the story missions, I find the game disc sitting 
 in its case for weeks on end. Once the game is beat, there truly is nothing to do. It simply gets 
 boring,
  
  Saints Row 2, however, almost feels like a "Vice City" or "San Andreas" -esque game. Everything 
 is over the top. Planes to fly, parachuting and BASE jumping to do, flaming ATVs to ride, people 
 to throw off buildings, and the list goes on. I have been playing the game for about 12 hours now, 
 and have only done ONE story mission. I cannot put the controller down because everything is so 
 over the top, I just cant quit.
  
  Although GTAIV looks a lot better, the graphics in Saints Row 2 and very good, despite other comments. 
 Comparing them to previous gen graphics, they are phenomenal. 
  
  Also, the rumor about the car doors not opening and the character just spawning into the car is 
 a lie. Granted on multiplayer that is the case, but who cares. During the single player campaign, 
 everything is smooth and fun.
  
  I would highly recommend that everyone goes out and at least rents this game. When you play it, 
 dont compare it to GTAIV, but put it in a whole new category. The only thing that SR2 and GTAIV 
 have in common is that fact that the city is a sandbox. Thats it.
  
  Controls, looks, direction, fun factor - everything is unique. Go rent this game, and if you dont 
 like it, oh well - you got to play a pretty sweet game for 5 bucks.
  
  The SR series is breathing down R*'s neck, and if R* doesnt get innovative and fast, SR will blow 
 by the previously "unrivaled franchise"
  
  
  Final Thoughts
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Graphics - 8
  Sound - 8
  Value - 10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vfx_fan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  In 2006, published THQ and developer Volition released the first free-roaming crime game for seventh-generation 
 consoles. Saints Row, an exclusive Xbox 360 title, is what would happen if the Grand Theft Auto 
 III series were released on the 360 or PS3. It retained a cartoonish look and comic book ragdoll 
 physics, but at the same time, had sharper textures and more detailed environments.
  
  At heart, Saints Row was widely criticized for being a GTA copycat. Let's face it, you run in a 
 free city where you're free to kill civilians and steal their cars and do missions for characters. 
 Saints Row, unlike other GTA rip-offs that weren't so great, knows what made GTA great -- compelling 
 storytelling, writing, and humor.
  
  But where Saints Row innovated was a character creation system, where you customize your own characters 
 and make the decision of how he should look by using an elaborate series of sliders representing 
 a certain appearance. Saints Row also featured a number of imaginative side missions never before 
 featured in a GTA game. Saints Row served as a diet GTA until Grand Theft Auto IV would release.
 
  
  After GTA IV had passed by and gone, Saints Row 2 enters. And now, aside from the basic idea, Saints 
 Row 2 is everything GTA IV is not. If GTA IV was a realistic, gritty, and grounded portrayal of 
 gang life (sometimes frustratingly so) , Saints Row 2 is a zany, off-the-wall, and over-the-top 
 alternative with no interest in touching ground other than what is limited by the game engine and 
 video hardware. Saints Row 2 makes absolutely no attempt at being in the realm of physical possibility, 
 but no doubt succeeds in the gameplay department. There is so much to do in the game's world.
 
  
  The differences between GTA IV and Saints Row 2 can be summed up like this: GTA IV is like a five-star 
 steak that looks exquisite but doesn't really taste like anything more than your average steak. 
 Saints Row 2 is a greasy fast-food cheeseburger that doesn't necessarily look appetizing and is 
 certainly not good for you, but it just tastes so good. The pretense of GTA IV is nowhere to be 
 found in Saints Row 2.
  
  Saints Row 2 starts where the first Saints Row left off. If players of the first game recall, the 
 main character was left for dead on an exploding boat, his fate uncertain until this second game, 
 where the same character wakes up from a five-year coma in a prison hospital.
  
  But through the wonders of reconstructive surgery, which serves as the game's character customizer, 
 you will be as good as new. In addition, through the wonders of sexual realignment surgery, Saints 
 Row 2 allows you to choose whether or not you want to keep your balls. That's right, where the 
 first Saints Row only allowed you to create a male character, you can now create a female character.
 
  
  The character customization tool is far more elaborate than the first game, and that's understating. 
 You can spend hours creating your character -- you can create the guy/girl of your dreams or a 
 deformed freak, and everything in between.
  
  After you're done creating your character, your mission to escape prison and rebuild your fallen 
 gang in the fictional city of Stilwater (loosely modeled after Chicago and Detroit) .
  
  The city has expanded since the first game. You now go up against three more rival gangs as well 
 as the Ultor Corporation, a mysterious organization largely responsible for the city's extreme 
 revamp.
  
  While the game does have compelling and fun story missions, there is an impressive amount of entertaining 
 side missions to play in the game -- all the same side missions from the first game and more. New 
 ones include "Fuzz," an activity where you wear a police uniform and, with a cameraman nearby, 
 are able to enact a Cops-like scenario and arrest criminals. Another is "Crowd Control," where 
 your job is to protect a VIP from crazed fans by taking the fans and throwing them into nearby 
 resources (helicopter propellers, a railroad track, among others) . One of my favorites is "Septic 
 Avenger," where the player hops into a septic truck and must devalue city property by spraying 
 human waste on buildings and pedestrians. The activity itself is a bit repetetive, but the idea 
 of spraying feces on others sounds hilarious for the twisted mind, and makes you forget about the 
 repetition... or why, under normal circumstances, a septic truck would have a spray hose on it.
 
  
  There is much more to do and the game rewards you with extremely satisfying unlockables after completing 
 an activity.
  
  The world of Stilwater is surprisingly interactive. Probably the most interactive world of any 
 game in the genre. The player is able to pick up everyday objects (such as stop signs, news stands, 
 and garbage cans) and use them as weapons against opponents. A player may also grab pedestrians 
 and use them as hostages, able to drag them and throw them off a high building or perhaps just 
 use them as cover, only to later snap their necks.
  
  Saints Row 2 is one of the most fun games to play out there. The game's variety is unmatched by 
 its competitors. It's an imaginative game that lets the player be imaginative, too. It is the kind 
 of free-roaming crime game that I had always hoped for.
  
  What keeps the game from being perfect is mostly in the graphics department. While the game certainly 
 does not depend on good graphics for its kicks, there are certain parts in the game world that 
 are a little watered down and sometimes downright ugly. They actually seem inferior to the first 
 Saints Row, although this could have been done to make more room for an enormous world with tons 
 of things to interact with.
  
  The game is also glitchy in a number of ways. Characters get stuck in objects, vehicles and pedestrians 
 appear out of nowhere, and the controls are unresponsive at times. The game also suffers from a 
 lackluster AI from both parties and enemies.
  
  However, Saints Row 2 is one of the few games out there that is exceptionally fun to play and even 
 addictive. The amount of places to explore and things to do are plentiful. So while GTA IV may 
 be eons ahead of Saints Row 2 in the technical department, Saints Row 2 has the fun factor that 
 compels you to play the game again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bbbenjaminlee
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 17, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This game is Amazing, funny and brutal all at the same time! Saints Row 2 also has a better story 
 line, customization and is more fun than the previous Saints Row. Saints row 2 is Full of fun and 
 character, I think that the customization of the characters is outstanding. Good game play and really 
 fun and interesting side missions.
  The only let down is the graphics which don't stand up to GTA IV but you will be having to much 
 fun to notice that. With GTA taking a more grown up look at things as you cant customize cars, get 
 planes or jet packs and lacks the fun of the previous GTA's, but Saints Row 2 brings that all back. 
 I thought that the game play was near enough the same but there is more freedom and Gore in Saints 
 Row 2, you can also customize cars, houses, gangs and yourself to make it a more interesting game 
 than GTA. It is just a fun game that will rival GTA IV and may just take it over. Overall a brilliant 
 game and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  If you want to talk about Saints Row 2 (right place to be, innit) , you've got two different approaches 
 open to you. You could talk, in technical terms and a tone reminiscent of a slightly disappointed 
 maths teacher, about how the graphics aren't terribly impressive. It's got a huge city for you 
 to explore, but compared with the deftly filtered visual richness of something like Grand Theft 
 Auto IV (a comparison that's going to be hauled out a lot, I'm afraid) , it looks dated.
  
  You'd probably go on to mention, with faintly pursed lips, that the animation messes up regularly 
 - with characters "popping" out of cars when the doors don't have space to open, for instance. 
 Or you might complain that enemy AI and other road users are fairly simple and dim, or that the 
 radio stations are understocked to the extent that the '80s station seems to play The Final Countdown 
 at least three times an hour. If you want to nit-pick Saints Row 2, you won't have a hard time 
 doing so. It's even got a little bit of screen-tearing and the occasional frame-rate drop.
  
  If you look past that, though, you've got approach number two: it's the first sandbox game 
 since Vice City where 3am comes and goes, and for me, Saints Row 2 is a diamond, no matter how 
 roughly hewn. For all the visible seams, I'm happier talking about fun stuff, like the time I hijacked 
 a car with a passenger still inside, and found myself playing a hidden mini-game where I had to 
 evade the police without letting him escape, until he was so terrified that he offered to pay a 
 ransom. Or the time I walked into a stadium to discover a fully functional Destruction Derby, complete 
 with customisable scrapyard vehicles.
  Still, in single-player and in co-op, Saints Row 2 is one of the most ridiculous and enjoyable 
 games of the year. Some will dismiss it as GTA's "gangsta" offshoot, but they're missing the point; 
 with its immense scope, fun physics and focus on entertainment over realism or grit, Saints Row 
 is what GTA would have become if Rockstar North had followed Vice City to its pimpin' conclusion. 
 It may not have the graphical fidelity or the polish of its high-budget counterpart, and will be 
 beaten up for that, but it compensates more than adequately by answering the crucial question - 
 "is it fun?" - with an exuberant, sweary, two-fingered affirmative.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  You will find out at the openning cutscene in Saints Row2. You've been a coma all this time and 
 you finally recovered. This time you have a option to choose between male or female. Since I played 
 the first I tried my best to make my character the same as the first. If you've played the first 
 Saints Row than you know exactly where you left off. 
  
  It's a little hard playing this game if you haven't played the first. You'll see some old friends 
 make an appearance from the first game but there's also a lot of new faces which is good. So you've 
 woken up from your coma you find out the Saints aren't the #1 gang anymore. It's your dude to take 
 the streets back and make Stilwater your city once again. 
  
  One of the things I enjoy from the first game was the freedom to go any where from the beginning. 
 The whole city is unlocked you can play for hours roaming the entire city before you play a mission. 
 But I was a fan of the first story so I tired the missions right away. Some require you to do some 
 side mission called activities for example insurance fraud from the first game and snatch. Also 
 some new ones like fuzz and fight club. This time the activities are even more insane than in the 
 first one. You'll get a kick out of it trust me.
  
  The graphics are not an improvement from the first game but that doesn't mean it looks bad either. 
 There some options for you to make the game look better. The cutscenes look pretty good. There's 
 also an option to change the difficulty level that wasn't available in the first game. It would 
 take you a roughy 10 hours to get through the story but with multiplayer online and co-op you'll 
 be playing this game for a while. Plus if you want to complete the entire game by doing all the 
 activites and side missions it'll take you a while. 
  
  If you're fan of the first game this is a definite buy. If you're a fan of open world games and 
 would love to try something different from GTA IV; I would guarantee that you will love this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElevenX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  Just awesome and addictive, gameplay have its glitches and hang-ups. Absolutely enjoyable even 
 without playing missions, the rep gauge forces u to take a break from the story missions and do 
 diversions to earn respect before u continue the missions. Perfectly balanced for me.
  
  True Freeroam sandbox game. Tons of stuff to do, while meaningless fun ensues, you're actually 
 earning respect which is required to start the next mission. 
  The cops wont come at u right away when u start swinging your weapons and wont meddle while you're 
 in the midst of a gang mission. Customisation is king in this game. Fighting style, walking style, 
 voice, gang style, vehicles, almost everything u want your character to be can be possible. And 
 the Unlockables in SR2 are useful or at least fun and a satisfying feel of acommplishment.
  
  Vehicles once stored in your garage can be retrieved even when you didnt bring it back after 
 the last mission. At any point of time u got sick of how your character looks like, u can change 
 everything u want, even gender.
  
  Visuals are no where near GTA4 standards, I'm a huge fan of the GTA series but the gameplay in 
 SR2 is overwhelmingly fun you'll be too engrossed to bother about how this game should look better.
 
  
  10 hours playing this game and only 15 story missions done. Story missions finish in about 10 mins 
 average.
  Enough said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PhysicsLCP
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:43 pm PT
Review:  Saints Row 2. A great game. I'll start with that.
  
  Plagued with bugs and horrible glitches the content manages to match and even overcome it's obvious 
 nemesis, GTA IV.
  
  When I purchased SRII, I wasn't really sure what I would find. I had spoken to some friends and 
 was informed that this was a game that provided a lot of fun. I didn't believe the hype. I was 
 happily proven wrong.
  
  Saints Row 2 offers nothing but action. Starting with the first mission you're already into the 
 heat of battle. The sandbox environment (ala GTAIV) is a welcome feature. I remembered playing 
 the first Saints Row and found the gameplay in Saints Row 2 to be strikling similar. This is a 
 good thing.
  
  One thing that the Saints Row series has over the GTA series is the lack of monotony. I felt that 
 I constantly had something to do. No silly dating or retarded missions where you had to do something 
 mundane just to get a little further. The character customization left me feeling more in tune 
 with the character I was controlling. I was left with a cool feeling that I was in the game rather 
 than feeling like I was some deadbeat foreign gangster with no choice as to what I was going to 
 do.
  
  Saints Row 2 is very open ended. I can do anything I want. I can play diversion missions to gain 
 respect and I can play regular missions that seem to mesh well with the premise. Take over the 
 city. Reclaim the Saint's status. I can live with this and found the entire thing comprehensive. 
 There was never a dull moment. This is great.
  
  There were several things about GTA IV that pushed me away. Compared to Saints Row 2, GTA IV felt 
 very linear. Saints Row 2 accomplishes the "I can do whatever the hell I feel like doing" feel. 
 GTA IV did not.
  
  The missions are laid out in such a way where you have just the right balance between doing side 
 missions (that earn you respect) and the real missions that are well orchestrated and have a more 
 intuitive motive.
  
  So far, I've been completely immersed.
  
  One thing about Saints Row 2 that sets itself apart from other sandbox games it the rediculous 
 nature of it's premise. While the focus is on hardcore gangsta' style. It pokes fun at itself enough 
 to allow anyone to get into. The radio commercials in the cars and various other cinematic aspects 
 keep you entertained whether you are an aspiring (I hope not) gansta or just a kid wanting to have 
 a little fun.
  
  The mature factor in this game is a little different than that of GTA IV. Sure, you have your headshots 
 and your strippers. That's for sure. But somethign about this game seems a little safer for kids 
 to play. I think it's the comical nature of everything. You can't help but laugh and realize that 
 this is nothing but a funny mockery of a game.
  
  Saints Row 2 is not without it's problems though. They come in the form of programming. This game 
 is by far one of the worst examples of programming prowess that I've seen in a PS3 game to date. 
 There are slews of glitches, artifacts, and slow down that is so bad in some places that it's almost 
 impossible to get good shots in on the bad guys. I'd go as far as saying that this game is a programming 
 failure. There is no way that a game like this should slow down (even with the amount of guys on 
 the screen) at this point in the next-generation cycle (whether it be xbox or ps3) .
  
  What Saints' lacks in engineering it makes up for in sheer fun. There is so much to do and so much 
 open endedness that it's really easy to forgive volition for their programming mistakes.
  
  Bottom line. This game is damn fun. I mean really damn fun. It's a sleeper hit and I believe that 
 everyone should pick up a copy.
  
  The designers should be commended for picking up where the programmers couldn't continue. A wonderful 
 "ball recovery" if you will.
  
  If you found GTA IV to be boring and droll, this game might be for you if you fancy the sandbox 
 sort of game.
  
  It's nothing but nonstop action. All the boring parts of GTA IV have been stripped out to bring 
 you something that will keep you interested for a long time.
  
  I am a big fan of this game. I hope you give it a chance.
  
  PHYSLCP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  I've been eagerly anticipating Saints Row 2 for a long time. I was jealous of Xbox owners who got 
 to play the original Saints Row because I didn't have one, and the one thing I've always hated 
 about the GTA series is how they call it a "sandbox" game and yet don't even give you the freedom 
 to play the kind of character you want to play as. Feature-wise, Vice City and San Andreas were 
 great, but I still didn't feel an attachment to the character or the storyline because I didn't 
 care about the lead. So yeah, when I heard about SR2, and learned that it was going to be on PS3 
 as well as Xbox 360, and when I heard the game would support female avatars as well as male, well, 
 I was excited.
  
  And now, I have the game in my hands, and I've put a significant enough amount of time into it 
 to judge its worth. And in my opinion, the game is everything I wanted it to be. I don't view SR2 
 as an opponent or rival to GTA, but rather an alternative. Just as you can choose between Street 
 Fighter or Guilty Gear and have fun either way, there's nothing wrong with supporting both GTA 
 and Saints Row 2.
  
  Graphics are low on my personal list of priorities in what makes a great game. But it bears mentioning: 
 the graphics are not spectacular. I've seen many far better looking games on PS3. But the graphics 
 are not bad. It looks better than anything last gen, and there are no frame rate problems. Everything 
 looks like it should, even if it's not as detailed as GTA IV, MGS4 or games of that ilk. The characters 
 are animated well, the vehicles are fast and smooth and the violence looks hilariously unreal.
 
  
  Sound work is fine too. The voices fit, if a little over-the-top, and many of the lines I've heard 
 are quite funny. The car radio's selection of songs and stations is kind of limited, though it 
 is nice that there's an 80's channel (reminds me of the more fun moments I've had playing Vice 
 City) . I know it's an M-rated sandbox game, but the characters seem to curse a bit more than necessary. 
 It's cool that even though you design the character, your protagonist is fully voiced in all story 
 sequences and gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is very much like GTA. It feels pretty much the same, to the point where you have 
 to remind yourself you're not playing a GTA game. You run around in a persistent city, taking on 
 missions to advance the story or do optional things at your leisure. The optional activities (appropriately 
 titled "diversions") help you earn respect points so you can take on more story-based missions. 
 You can get in trouble with the law that pursues you more aggressively as your wanted level, er, 
 notoriety increases. You also have a separate gauge for how much attention you draw from rival 
 gangs as you do things like push around people in the area or spray paint over rival tags, which 
 is cool. It's also cool that, depending on the situation, you might see cops running around attacking 
 people besides you, and people attacking you might end up being taken down by the law while you 
 watch. Plus, it's cool that the game is more forgiving than GTA games I've played. If you die, 
 you lose a little money, but keep all your weapons. You're also not doomed if you rack up your 
 wanted level; even a sandbox noob like myself managed to get away from the law almost every time.
 
  
  There are of course plenty of diversions you can partake upon. The most hilarious one to me is 
 the ability to streak. You can go into your wardrobe, remove all your character's clothes (carefully-placed 
 blurs show up to cover the naughty bits) and literally streak for a minigame. Just doing it drives 
 people to attack you and the cops to pursue while people whine about "not wanting to see that" 
 and calling your character all kinds of names, while your respect level goes up for successful 
 levels completed. It's a riot.
  
  Oh yeah, and the character designing mechanic is probably the best I've ever seen in a console 
 game. Being able to modify your character's complete appearance, from extremely meticulous modifications 
 to the facial structure and body shape, from race to voice, and even the character's walking style, 
 taunt and praise animations, allows you the freedom to make a character truly unique. One thing 
 I'm not fond of is the stock facial expressions; they all look pretty bad, but that's just my opinion. 
 If you want to make a nut job looking character, it's easy... and if you change your mind later, 
 that's what plastic surgeons are for. Sure beats being stuck with Niko Belic, CJ Johnson or Tommy 
 Vercetti.
  
  I haven't done much online multiplayer, but I recommend people to set co-op up for "Invite Only" 
 as soon as possible. I wasn't paying attention and someone jumped into my game with "Cheats Enabled", 
 and now I can't get it off my file. I'll probably update this review with my thoughts on multiplayer 
 later, if I bother with it. I'm looking forward to trying the online co-op with someone I trust.
 
  
  There are drawbacks to the game. On more than a few occasions, I've seen cars drive out of my field 
 of view; I'd turn to face them and they would completely vanish. I've seen some crazy clipping 
 and graphical hiccups, and my vehicles have gotten stuck on a few environmental objects. There 
 have also been times where I flipped totally on my side on a bike and continued to drive as if 
 I were upright before being mysteriously flung from the vehicle. So yeah, there are technical hitches. 
 But they're rare and it's almost easy to anticipate when they'll happen.
  
  Overall, the game offers a lot to do, looks more than serviceable, and is a lot of fun to play. 
 The customization options are great for immersing just the character you want into the game's world. 
 The story isn't GTA quality but the gameplay is just as much fun, if not more so than GTA IV, which 
 perhaps takes itself too seriously. Is SR2 better than GTA IV? I suppose that depends on what you 
 want. GTA IV is more of a technical marvel and has a deeper, more serious story. SR2 is more about 
 fun and mayhem than it is about the drama. It feels more free-spirited to me. I like SR2 better 
 personally... I admit being able to create my own character gives it huge points ahead of the GTA 
 series in my book.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lmrfud
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:20 am PT
Review:  
  They compared this to Grand Theft Auto IV so I was excited to play it boy were they wrong. Driving 
 the car that turns on a dime and never skids out makes that part of the game very bad, controls 
 are not that great either. How can I explain driving, it doesn't matter how fast your going just 
 turn and the car or truck goes that way like it was strapped to a tree, I'm still walking around 
 in my jail uniform because every cloths shop I go in to all I can buy is a hat. 
  
  Running is a joke, when I picked my character I picked an athletic woman who can't seem to run 
 more than 20 feet without being out of breath. 
  
  The graphics are probably one of the worst I've seen on the PS3, I've had PS1 games with better 
 graphics than that. I need to be careful of what I buy now, this should have defiantly been a renter 
 first.
  
  
  
  
  Please tell me this game gets better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfactor674
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 6:46 pm PT
Review:  In saints row 2 its a fun game because you can kill people run them over do missions rob cars and 
 your can beat up people if you want to. Saints Row 2 is just like grand theft auto because they 
 rob cars you can beat up people do missions and they both have cops that go on 6 stars. On 6 stars 
 police have the swat team and there is so much polices and the trucks ram you put of no where and 
 they even have the helicopter that stays on you and you have to blow them dowm with a rocket launcher. 
 And they have a bike that has fire all over it and when you hit the traffic the cars explode so 
 far and it looks raw. And the graphics look better than before because it looks more real the person 
 you use barley loses life because he barely gets shot but the clothes they have in the clothes 
 shop sucks they have terrible clothes except for you make your person match with his clothes. but 
 the missions might be hard because most missions you kill alot of people just like grand theft 
 auto and the game might take long to beat because the game is going to be long. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tizzomr
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 1:52 pm PT
Review:  This game is hella dope! they gave GTA IV a 10, which it honestly didn't deserve, and gave this 
 an 8. I rate it the other way around (maybe a 8.5 for GTA) . A fun game by all means that you just 
 gotta try yourself. Don't listen to all these reviews as some are probably from the rivals. You 
 can customize your dude and your car to the T, you can pimp slap a hoe, and bunch of other fun 
 stuff, I'm lovin it! Or how about throwin some D's yes Daytons on your whip, whatever size, whatever 
 color, and mobbin in true video fashion, like they did in San Andreas. Customization makes this 
 game what it is, I won't lie, but the story is interesting enough, and plain and simple I guess 
 it just depends on what you want. Well my advice, is go, and at least rent it, I don't think you'll 
 be let down. Saints Row 2 is tha **** and I personally like it over GTA IV, although they are both 
 great games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Biocide69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 8:04 am PT
Review:  Saint's Row 2, I'll get the bad stuff out of the way first, because it really ends up not being 
 much when you look at the game as a whole. Graphics, a little dated, Ai kind of dumb, animations 
 are a little off, and the driving is a bit funky. 
  Ok now that we have that out of the way. On to the good stuff. First off i think I want to elaberate 
 a little on some of those negatives. The graphics, while like I said they arin't the best ever, 
 but they are well done. And i don't know if it my TV (standered) or the resolution, but I noticed 
 that there is kind of a drak line around everything. Gives it kind of a comic book feel to the 
 world. Very cool in my opinion. The colors are bright and vibrent, so dispite it's short comings. 
 The game still looks great, especally when it's in full motion. 
  next the AI, while a bit dumb. persoannly i haven't seen to many games that really do all that 
 great with the AI, especally in sandbox games. GTA4, mercs. there AI's are just as dumb. Easilly 
 forgivable. 
  Animations are probebly what I would say is the most lackinig, but thats also being spoiled by 
 others like Assains Creed, GTA4, and MGS4. A bit stiff, but varied enough to be passable.
  Next Driving, it's not bad persay, just diffrent. the cars handle allright, and probably it's more 
 me that needs to get used to the controls. and also my desire to dive like they have realistic 
 physics, more so than arcade like ones. because the driving in SR2 are very arcade like. So i think 
 i'll leave it at that.
  Apart from that, Wow, a great game. The voice acting is top notch, the story i really can't coment 
 on yet. (haven't played all that much so far.) There is a ton of stuff you can do besides the main 
 story. and not all the diversion are openly presented. The car surfing is one good example. I was 
 never told that you could do it by the game. I knew from previews of it, and then just jumped on 
 the hood of a car and off we where. 
  Shooting is fun and satifying, even running up and beating the snot out of people is fun. the throw/hostage 
 taking mecanic is easy and fun to use. And i simply can't wait to see everything else there is 
 to do in the game. especally when I can get into some fun co-op. So, for now while Saint's Row 
 isn't perfect. The fact of the matter is, that it doesn't need to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snake2215449
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:29 am PT
Review:  Ummmm what can I say? This game is such a disappointment. I like GTA 4 much better, I was expecting 
 it to be the other way around. Poor gameplay, poor graphics, poor presentation, poor audio. 
  
  Now this is GTA 4, great gameplay, good graphics, awesome presentation, top notch audio! 
 
  
  Well there you have it Saints Row 2 is not what you expected its just a waste of money and it just 
 sucks. I mean if you go in a car instead of opening the door, you just warp right in! Its just 
 so annoying!!! The tasks are so fast paced and so boring that you just want to give up! 
  
  The idea of copying GTA is just very hard, GTA is one of the best games in the whole gaming industry 
 and trying to copy it is just like trying to kill the president! 
  
  Saints Row 1 was a complete failure in my opinion although they had a few good moments such as 
 the cool cars and gangs which are all present in this sequel but they are not as entertaining as 
 they were last time. 
  
  Yeah what a disappointment, man I should stop listening to gamespot! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wayneb22
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 16, 2008 5:25 am PT
Review:  O. k so now that i have had a chance to play for awhile, First thing Dumb Down... i mean REALLY 
 Dumb them Down... Like Sarah Palin Dumb them Down- any expectations for next Gen Graphics! Outside 
 of that the Game is a lot of Fun but you really would serve yourself well by lowering your expectations! 
 In no way does volition attempt to Compete with GTA ( at least i hope not) . The customizations 
 are really good but the cars handle like GTA Vice City & that's giving more props then they Deserve. weapons 
 fire is cool (No Lock on feature) and the combat melee style is basic button mashing...
  (L2 R2) . The interaction with other characters is O. K but the AI for citizens on the street is 
 Gahbage. All in All it's a really Fun Game and if you go into it knowing that it is silly then 
 you should be Happy!
  
  O. K so after my review i found the Fight Club diversion & i have to say it is HOTTT! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
