-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Superstars Tennis
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/segasuperstarstennis/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Characters, courts, and music based on classic Sega games.
 Many minigames combine tennis with the gameplay of another game.
 More than 100 different challenges.
 Lots of online options .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Actual tennis is pretty average.
 Some levels use their source material much better than others.
 Many of the characters are D-listers.
 Nobody is playing online .
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.9, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.0, 139 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sumo Digital
Genre: Tennis
Date: Mar 18, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The tennis is merely average, but the challenges and minigames in Sega Superstars Tennis are creatively 
 done and a lot of fun. 

  After Sonic's recent lackluster performance in Mario &amp; Sonic at the Olympic Games, you'd be 
 forgiven for having low expectations for Sega's next sports game to feature mascots: Sega Superstars 
 Tennis. The characters aren't all A-listers and the tennis isn't great, but the game's interesting 
 court designs, minigames, and classic Sega tunes make for a good package.  

  Sega Superstars Tennis features 16 characters from classic Sega games. Each player is rated for 
 speed, control, power, spin, or all-around ability. The eight characters that are unlocked from 
 the start include: Sonic, AiAi from Super Monkey Ball, Nights, Ulala from Space Channel Five, Beat 
 from Jet Set Radio, Amigo from Samba de Amigo, Tails, and Dr. Eggman. The unlockable characters 
 aren't quite as interesting and mostly consist of lesser characters from the same games, though 
 Gillius from Golden Axe and Alex Kidd are worthy additions to the lineup. The courts on which you 
 play and the music you hear while you play are inspired by the game's characters and are sure to 
 please anyone who has enjoyed Sega's games over the years.  

           Admit it, you've always wondered who would win this epic showdown.      

  The characters, 
 levels, music, and even some of the gameplay from these classic franchises are put to good use 
 in superstars mode. This mode is made up of 14 different worlds, each of which is based on a well-known 
 Sega game. The roster includes Super Monkey Ball, Puyo Pop Fever, Samba De Amigo, OutRun, Virtua 
 Squad, Sonic the Hedgehog, Nights, Space Channel Five, ChuChu Rocket, Jet Set Radio, and more. 
 Each is filled with challenges that range from winning single and doubles matches to minigames 
 that mix tennis with gameplay from the franchise on which the area is based.  

  Many of these challenges are really fun, and some of them are especially creative. In the Virtua 
 Squad minigames, you shoot (aim the ball at) the bad-guy targets that pop up while trying to avoid 
 hitting the civilians, just as you would in Virtua Cop. In Puyo Pop Fever, you're essentially playing 
 the actual puzzle game and clearing the Puyo with tennis balls. ChuChu Rocket is also a lot of 
 fun. Just as you did in the Dreamcast game, you have to lead the mice to their rockets by changing 
 the direction of the arrows on the level and avoiding cats -- only this time you change the arrows 
 by hitting them with tennis balls. It's amazing how well some of these games mesh with tennis, 
 and the ones that are done well are really a lot of fun. The only knock against these stages is 
 that the game doesn't do much in the way of explaining the gameplay, so if you've never played 
 ChuChu Rocket before, you're going to be clueless as to how to proceed here.  

  All of the levels in superstars mode are not created equal. The Jet Set Radio stage has the look 
 of the game, but the tagging minigames are frustrating and uninteresting. Running around the court 
 while collecting rings in Sonic's stage isn't too exciting, either. The superstars mode feels unfinished 
 in places because some of the levels have very little or nothing to do with the game on which they 
 are based. OutRun's court has the look of OutRun, but there are no challenges based on the game. 
 The same goes for Samba De Amigo and Space Channel Five, although some of the excellent music from 
 those games is featured. Golden Axe is particularly noteworthy because, aside from not having any 
 challenges based on the game, the level in which it takes place isn't even based on Golden Axe; 
 it's Curien Mansion from House of the Dead, complete with zombies. But even with these issues, 
 superstars mode is an entertaining and enjoyable way to play tennis.  

  It's a good thing that superstars mode is so much fun, given that the actual tennis in Sega Superstars 
 Tennis is merely average. The simple controls mean that it's easy to pick up and play, but you'll 
 have mastered the gameplay in a matter of minutes. There are a few different control schemes on 
 the Wii and they work fine, though the motion controls don't add much to the experience. In all 
 versions the controls are tight, but there are times when you'll hit the button to swing and your 
 character won't respond. This seems to be the game's way of punishing you for getting to the ball 
 late. This is kind of cheap, but if it didn't happen you'd rarely lose a point because it's so 
 difficult to hit a winning shot that you're almost always in position to return the ball. Lobs, 
 drop shots, and net play are ineffective, which means that you'll spend your time hitting from 
 the baseline, trying to run your opponent back and forth from left to right until he or she can't 
 get to a shot. Each character has a superstar ability that can be activated once the star below 
 the character begins to flash, but these abilities aren't much help and serve only to interrupt 
 play. There is a distinct difference between the different play styles of the characters, which 
 makes for some variety in how you attack each opponent, but don't expect too much challenge from 
 the artificial intelligence. It's generally fairly easy.  

  Sega Superstars Tennis gameplay is fun, but it's so simple that you probably won't want to play 
 online, given that the points can go on forever. However, if you do go online on the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 (there's no online mode in the PlayStation 2 or Wii versions) then you'll be pleased 
 to know that the game features a surprisingly robust online mode that runs well and is lag-free. 
 You can play a quick match, a ranked match, and even enter a tournament. Additionally, you can 
 use the TV mode to watch the game's best players do their thing live or just enjoy highlights from 
 matches. Unfortunately, you'd be hard-pressed to actually use any of these great features because 
 almost nobody is playing online. We never saw more than four people online at one time, which is 
 a shame considering how much effort the developer put into this aspect of the game.  

           Some of the minigames do a great job of combining the gameplay of their source material 
 with tennis.      

  You won't be amazed by Sega Superstars Tennis' visuals, but it's a decent-looking game that makes 
 good use of its source material. The courts and their surroundings look like they were ripped straight 
 from the games on which they were based. The characters aren't particularly detailed, but they 
 all look fine and are nicely animated. Sonic will spin to get to hard-to-reach shots, Beat will 
 skate around the court, and Nights hovers just above the court while gliding to and fro. Although 
 the game is hardly pushing the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 to their limits, the frame rate isn't 
 always steady, particularly on the PS3. Some courts are worse than others during singles play, 
 but the frame rate chugs on any stage if you're playing doubles.  

  If you're looking to play traditional tennis, then you'll want to stick with Top Spin or Virtua 
 Tennis. But if you want a lighthearted tennis game, enjoy minigames, and have a special place in 
 your heart for the glory days of Sega, then you'll find a lot to like in Sega Superstars Tennis. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 12:34 am PT
Review:  I'm not a big fan of sports games -- the only ones I like revolve around tennis. That said, Sega 
 Superstars Tennis is a fun game no matter what platform you get it for. I got it for my PS3 because 
 I hope to someday enjoy it on high-def when I finally get around to purchasing an HDTV. 
  
  The roster of playable characters includes popular Sega mascots like Sonic, Ulala, Amigo and even 
 Alex Kidd from the old-school Master System. Each of them have their strengths and weaknesses -- for 
 example, Amigo doesn't look the part, but he's a Power Player who hits about as hard as he shakes 
 those colorful maracas. The old-school Sega songs are a nice touch for nostalgic gamers, and the 
 court designs are wild and imaginative.
  
  The mini-games are also a nice touch, but some of them are absolutely frustrating like the one 
 for Jet Grind Radio where you must "get the perfect tag three times" (Trust me, play this mode 
 and you'll know what I mean.) Many of them are quite fun and are a welcome distraction. And there 
 are a ton of unlockables to be had, like new missions, songs and characters.
  
  Overall, if you enjoy tennis games and happen to be a fan of Sega characters, there's no better 
 choice of game than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Nintendo was the first to blend tennis with its own mascots (Mario Tennis for the N64) , and since 
 then, we've seen more than a few arcade-based tennis games. Now, Sega has kicked in with theirs. 
 Some might want to compare it to something like Hot Shots Golf due to its fun and cartoon-y exterior, 
 but make no mistake: while HSG really is a golf simulator, there's nothing even remotely realistic 
 about Sega Superstars Tennis. However, just about everybody knows that going in, and provided you're 
 a fan of Sega's quirky characters, you'll probably get at least a few hours of entertainment out 
 of this one. Like most games such as these, though, it's best if you play with a friend because 
 the single-player experience can wear out very quickly, as the gameplay limitations become both 
 repetitive and even boring. But up until that point, Superstars has a lot to offer for the fun-seeking 
 individual looking to pass the time on a rainy day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MogFromLeipzig
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 1, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Sega Superstars Tennis is a colorful and fun game and thus probably delivers what Sega intended. 
 Besides Sonic the characters are not really what you'd call superstars but they are likable enough 
 (except this ugly, ugly, ugly Alex Kidd) and the courts are varied and pretty.
  
  The main theme is tennis, of course, but tennis matches get only 50% of the attention. The other 
 50% go to mini games, some of which are more fun than others. That's why you get a mission mode 
 instead of a career mode where you play several variations of the 8 mini games and only occasionally 
 a tennis match. There are 100 missions and you might think they keep you busy for a long time but 
 most missions last no more than a minute or two and are easy enough to beat them on the first try. 
 After only about five hours all missions are done and everything is unlocked. What's next? You 
 can play the unlocked mini games to get new high scores but what is it good for? You can also play 
 tournaments against the computer but without a story or unlockables you have no motivation to do 
 so.
  
  That leaves tennis matches against human opponents. If you are lucky you have friends who come 
 over and play with you because it takes ages to find another player online. However the Tennis 
 is solid as far as I can tell. (I have no experience with other tennis games.) It is no game of 
 luck. Skilled people can own beginners pretty badly. You can do normal shots, long and high shots, 
 balls that drop right behind the net and smashes when you are in a good position. Additionally 
 every character has a special move. Unfortunately they are imbalanced  some lead to a point way 
 more certainly than others.
  
  Overview:
  
  Content
  ======
   There are 16 characters of different types like speed, strength, spin or control. Some characters 
 are only clones from others. You will find characters from Sonic, Space Channel 5, Monkey Ball, 
 Jetset Radio, Samba de Amigo, Golden Axe and Alex Kidd.
   10 tennis courts and a some mini game areas with three to five songs to choose from
   8 mini 
 games of different quality. Some are really good, none is really bad. You can try to get high scores 
 or compete against a friend offline.
   100 very short missions
   You can play 1 on 1 matches or 2 on 2 as well as 1 on 1 and 2 on 2 tournaments
   3 difficulty 
 settings for the tennis (not for the mini games)
   A variety of unlockable music titles but no option to play a title without playing on the associated 
 place.
   Online mode with test matches, ladder matches and tournaments. You can play 2 vs 2 online but 
 not two offline players versus two online players.
   There is a TV option but nothing is on.
  
  Quality
  ======
   Controls are responsive 
 and ok. I don't like the concept of pressing two buttons in a certain order for either a long or 
 a short ball but other than that I had no problems.
   Graphics are good except the new 3D models for Alex Kidd and the Golden Axe character.
   Sounds 
 are simply Sega-like
   Sometimes there is some lag noticable online but it is still well playable.
  
  Difficulty
 
  =======
   The missions are mostly easy. Only a few will make you try several times. Unlocking everything 
 should be no problem
   The difficulty of the tennis depends on your settings. On easy it is very easy. On normal most 
 matches will still be easy except some tournament end bosses. br / 
   Online is the real challenge. It's hard to compete.
  
  Value
  =====
   The single player 
 part is very short but fun while it lasts.
   You get a solid tennis game with online mode. 
   Some minigames are great to chill out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  I used to think the idea of a character based game built of a roster of a well known brand is fanastic 
 idea, then Nintendo came along and have shat out so much excremented Mario spin-offs that the idea 
 has grown as stale as a manky biscuit, surprsingly though there sell bigtime, most of the time. 
 (a but like EA then) However, when I saw a tennis game plastered with the blue hedgehog Sonic, 
 I actually thought it might be fairly decent.
  
  On paper it's a brilliant idea, use the mechanics and graphics engine from one of the best tennis 
 games ever - Virtua Tennis 3 and combine it with the endless joy of the super-bright colourful 
 world of Sega. Full Proof, you'd think.
  
  The end result is about half way there, it is good but never reaches that peak of utter madness 
 that makes for pure enjoyableness in a game. The first thing that stops it from being fantastic 
 is they have dumbed down the controls bigtime, and you thougb VT3's controls were simple enough, 
 obviously not. X and Square are your main lobs and spins and analougue stick is your movement, 
 and theres L1 and R1 which will give you your "Superstar Power" which are almost everytime crap. 
 I mean Sonic's looks kind of cool when he turns into Super Sonic, but Ai Ai's (the monkey from 
 Super Monkey Ball) just chucks banana skins and Ulala (Space Channel 5) shoots a big 5 at you, 
 Oh how original! 
  
  My Ulala power would have had her singing and Michael Jackson chasing the opposition around the 
 court and throwing plastic noses he keeps in his pocket at you. Now that would have been funny. 
 Shamow!
  
  Anyway, the controls lack depth compared to VT3 and every game simply ends up in smacking the ball 
 abck and forth over the net, so in effect the tactical edge of VT3 has been not just diluted but 
 diluted so weakly the orange juice tastes like water. In fact it is water.
  
  Graphically the game captures the Sega universe in wonderful 3D glory and the Green Hill Zone Court 
 looks like it was made of dreams. Animations are great and everything looks generally better than 
 the last Sonic outing on PS3.
  
  The roster is great but is greatly lacking, there's five characters from Sonic games the other 
 six are from others. You get Sonic, Shadow, Aimee (the annoying pink hedgehog) Dr Eggman, Tails, 
 Ulala, AiAi, some beat bloke a dwarf and Nights from the Nights into Dreams game, which recently 
 got a remake on Wii and was pap. I would have liked to have seen some Golden Axe characters, Virtua 
 Fighter, Crazi Taxi, Streets of Rage and some zombies from House of the Dead would have been classic. 
 But no, we're stuck with Sonic and friends.
  
  The only thing going for this game is the mental challenges, like in VT3, you use your racket in 
 many ways to hit stuck or keep things away, personal favourite, topping zombies in the House of 
 the Dead level.
  
  Apart from that Sega Superstars Tennis feels like an overall missed oppertunity, I had hopes for 
 this which got totally obliterated by the fact its esentially a dumbed down, rainbow version of 
 VT3 for kids, like Mario spin-offs - its a cash in more than a revival of the glory days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rex8000
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Your Kids Won't Have the Attention Span
  
  Story: There is pretty much no story, and if you haven't played previous sega games, then the levels 
 also have no history. 5/10
  
  Presentation: The graphics aren't bad, and the Sega characters make their comebacks. 7/10
  
 
  Gameplay: Obviously tennis, and designed for little kids, the tennis matches take way too long 
 and for the parents, it just isn't worth buying this game your child will enjoy (or pretend to) 
 for less than 20 minutes. 4/10
  
  Design: The game is way too tedious for children, and the mini-games are pretty much worthless. 
 If you want to play online there are pretty much no servers to find. 5/10
  
  Overall: 5.25/10
  
  Your kids won't have the attention span to play a game that only means 
 something if you're an avid Sega/Tennis fan. But for anyone else, I suggest you leave it on the 
 store shelf. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
