-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sega Rally Revo
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/segarallyrevo/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Tracks deform and tear up to an amazing degree.
 Fantastic-looking cars and tracks.
 Lots of different cars to unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay is a bit on the shallow side.
 Computer opponents are rather single-minded.
 Could have used more tracks.
 Lack of rumble with the Sixaxis controller is a big hindrance.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct  9, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 224 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: SEGA Racing Std.
Genre: Rally / Offroad Racing
Date: Oct 9, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The technology behind Sega Rally Revo is undeniably impressive and the driving is a good bit of 
 arcade fun, but the game's staying power is highly questionable. 

  Sega Rally Championship 2 for the Dreamcast was the last time North America saw a release of a 
 Sega Rally game, back in 1999. Now, eight years later, the franchise is back in Sega Rally Revo 
 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360, and you may be shocked by how little things have changed. Sure, 
 the technology has leapt over a skyscraper or two, but when it comes down to the fundamental arcade 
 style of driving that this series was known for, Revo is like a visit from the past. This actually 
 feels like the sort of game you should be driving in some monolithic arcade cabinet, with powerslide-heavy 
 driving mechanics and physics that are geared decidedly toward keeping you moving forward and moving 
 fast at all times. Is it fun? Absolutely, though how long it will remain fun depends entirely on 
 how well you get on with the game's scant list of available tracks and modes.  

           Track deformation is Sega Rally Revo's big gimmick, and admittedly, it is pretty cool. 

  Your first impression of Sega Rally Revo is likely to be the one you'll keep all throughout your 
 time with the game, because for as much as things change in the game, they ultimately stay the 
 same. The second you get on a track, you'll know that this is pure arcade driving. Cars are incapable 
 of going off track, with invisible barriers causing vehicles to bounce off everything from trees 
 to minor shrubs. Tight, accurate, frequent powerslides are the name of the game, no matter what 
 surface you might be driving on. And there is a wide variety of surfaces on display. From mud-bogged 
 jungles to sandy beaches to the icy, snowy mountains, you'll encounter all manner of terrain as 
 you drive.  

  The terrain is more than window dressing. As drivers race around the track, they're digging up 
 the dirt and snow and whatever else, creating big tears in the track that will actually affect 
 your car's handling when you drive through them. This is where the game's one element of strategy 
 comes into play. These treads are often created over the ideal driving lines. So what do you do? 
 Drive through the harsher portions of the track to keep the proper line? Or take the less beaten 
 path and hope for the best?  

  As impressive as that notion is, it doesn't necessarily amount to a whole lot. You can get by either 
 way and still perform reasonably well. You'll certainly feel the difference in the track depending 
 on how torn up the surface is, especially if you're playing on the 360, where the force feedback 
 does an absolutely phenomenal job of differentiating the feel of each surface (PS3 owners may want 
 to invest in the Logitech driving wheel, or wait for the DualShock 3 to come around, as the lack 
 of force feedback is a real bummer in this version) . It's arguably more important to just get to 
 know the tracks and make precise turns than it is to pay a whole lot of attention to where the 
 torn up track is, especially if you choose the off-road setup prior to a race; the other option, 
 "road," gives you higher speed on flat surfaces, but is ultimately less useful overall. Getting 
 to know the tracks probably won't take you too long, as there are only 23 of them spread across 
 five different environments, and several of those are reverse versions of existing tracks.  

  Getting a feel for each track takes some time, and when you pull off those really tight, accurate 
 slides around snow-laden turns, it's a highly satisfying feeling. However, the challenge isn't 
 all reliant on your skill, at least not in the offline game. The computer opponents in Sega Rally 
 Revo are a tough lot, almost irritatingly so. The main issue with the game's artificial intelligence 
 is that it's severely rigid. AI drivers stubbornly refuse to move off their racing lines, even 
 when you're banging into them at high speeds. And yet, on the flipside, they have no issue bopping 
 into you and knocking you into a corner the second you try to pass them. The second they do, they 
 move right back onto their natural line and stay put. The AI also has a tendency to just decide 
 when it wants to win, often blazing by you at crazy speeds not long before the end of a race. Once 
 you get good at cornering, you can start taking the AI to task, but small screw-ups usually amount 
 to you getting hosed for the rest of the race.  

           The game's singular focus on constant powersliding may drive some people insane.      
 

  One thing that might stick out to some of you about how Revo plays is just how similar it is to 
 the older Sega Rally games. Apart from the dynamic track deformation, Revo really does feel just 
 like old-school Sega Rally, and that's both a blessing and a curse. Fans of the older games are 
 likely to get giddy the second they start powersliding like a nutjob around crazy turns. By the 
 same token, with so many advances in the racing genre over the last couple of years, Revo can't 
 help but feel a bit like old hat at this point. It's fun, certainly, but not exactly anything special, 
 and the hyper-floaty feel of the cars is probably going to drive some people out of their minds. 
 It's almost as if the game is relying solely on the deformable track mechanic to lift its somewhat 
 archaic driving mechanics up to the level of games like Dirt and Motorstorm. But that feature isn't 
 really enough to carry a game all by its lonesome. Again, the gameplay is fun, but in a real blast-from-the-past 
 kind of way.  

  Sega Rally Revo offers a few different modes of play. Apart from the standard quick race mode, 
 there is a time trial mode where you can try to beat the best leaderboard times from around the 
 world. The cool thing about this mode is that after any race, you have the option to upload your 
 ghost car data to the online server, and in turn, you can download any players' ghost data to race 
 against while you try to beat their time.  

  The main mode is the championship mode. There are three championship tiers, each tied to the three 
 car classes in the game. You start out with the premier league, which consists of standard rally 
 rides like the Subaru WRX STi and Mitsubishi Lancer Evo IX, then move on to the modified league, 
 with cars like the VW Golf GTI and Grande Punto Rally, then finally hit the masters league, and 
 drive rally classics such as the Lancia Super Delta HF Integrale and Lancia Stratos. Each league 
 has several unlockable cars as well, many of which are often much faster than the default rides 
 (though at the same time, often more challenging to handle) . With there being such a limited number 
 of tracks, you end up repeating a lot of them again and again as you progress through each championship, 
 though with the differences in speed between car classes, each step upward often results in a somewhat 
 different-feeling race.  

  Finally, there is multiplayer. Two players can play head-to-head in split-screen play, and up to 
 six can race online. The online options aren't terribly deep, with just the basic ranked and player 
 matches available. However, when creating player matches, the host can design a custom championship 
 of sorts, laying out an order of up to six different tracks to play through in a row. In both versions 
 of the game, the online mode performed pretty well, with only minor bouts of lag that caused opponent 
 cars to skip around the track a bit.  

           Revo might not be exceedingly deep, but it sure is pretty.      

  Graphically, Sega 
 Rally Revo is extremely impressive, thanks in no small part to that dynamic track deformation feature. 
 All the tire tracks are left in real time, and the sheer dynamics of how the terrain deforms over 
 time are a bit staggering. Along the way, your car will get absolutely caked in mud and dirt, until 
 you hit a puddle, at which point you'll see a great deal of that dirt wash right off. Whether dirty 
 or clean, the car models look incredible. Though there aren't a ton of cars in the game, each featured 
 model is gorgeously detailed. The one slight disappointment is that there's no manner of damage 
 modeling in the game. While no one would expect anything too crazy in an arcade-oriented game like 
 this, some basic body damage would have been a nice touch. Incidentally, you won't see much graphical 
 difference between the PS3 and 360 versions of the game. The frame rate mostly stays at a steady 
 30 frames per second on both, and there's little difference in car or track detail between the 
 two. The only real point of contention between the two would be the aforementioned rumble capabilities 
 of the 360.  

  Sega Rally Revo is nothing revelatory, but it is a more-than-solid arcade racer with plenty of 
 familiar licensed cars, some tight and challenging track designs, and enjoyable online options. 
 You can't help but feel that, with all the great racers that have recently hit both systems, Revo 
 is just a bit behind the curve. As enjoyable as the gameplay is, its narrow focus on constant powersliding 
 and lack of track variety may wear thin on some players. Still, this is a game worth at least trying 
 for any fan of arcade racers, especially if you dug any of the older Sega Rally games.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 17, 2009 9:41 am PT
Review:  I picked this up for around a fiver, so i wasnt expecting too much!! Having bought every other 
 sega rally on every system it came on (saturn inc) , ive always been a fan, but with reserves !!
 
  
  I was greeted with a good presentation screen, quick and easy to use. I have to say i didnt get 
 to excited when i saw this running, however, that was on a crt 60 hz tv (not flat 100hz 1080p) , 
 it looks pretty good, not stunning but not bad. It SCREAMS AT PACE and damn its hard!! Not too 
 hard that you cant win but it ll near the end or last lap!! Loads of cars, tracks and there's a 
 definite old skool v rally feel to it (which was awesome) . It can be tricky for younger players 
 and with dirt flying up in your face in two player, which sadly lets it down with its vertical 
 (no option to change) view just doesnt work. I must say from a trusted and well established team 
 at sega i expected the multiplayer to be awesome. 
  
  Still, the one player is quite addictive, pace and tricky corners with different surfaces can be 
 fun. I know its nothing new, but as always there's is a distinct "sega" feel to this. Its very 
 smooth and the arin actually hinders your cars performance.
  
  i didnt really go online with it, so i cant comment here.
  
  Colourful, fast paced, arcade 
 action, bit of a challenge but worth a go at the right price (not 40 quid!!) . And after all its 
 SEGA RALLY a classic, but have we moved on in the gaming forte. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roberttylr
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 19, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  before we get started, lets just remind you that this review is built up on my own opinion to share 
 with you. first off, lets have a good look at some of the pros and cons of this great arcade-style 
 racing game.
  
  
  Pros: good amount of unlockable content, has a great range of cars, from the cossie to the scooby, 
 crazily fun on & offline multiplayer
  
  Cons: Not sure on tilt sensor, damage could be more realistic, only 1-2 players offline.
  
 
  here we go, a classic bring back after almost a decade of no sega rally, but the question is, 
 does it bring back the essence of it being the best rally title, sure, just don't mention Colin 
 McRae . . . . DiRT.
  
  Overall this is an outstanding arcade racer, people complain about it having no storyline or no 
 essence of "gameplay" ... dont know what they mean by that.
  racing games are made for racing, soon their all going to be sandbox style games, with people dying 
 and all sorts happening.
  
  if you want a game to pick up and play with a mate, offline, online or on your own without being 
 there for an hour, customising every little option, colour and detail of your car then not being 
 able to race it because he is offline by the time you've tweaked everything.
  
  take nfs games for an example, you cant do a multiplayer race without being there going through 
 the 20-page options.
  
  so if your looking for story therefore get gta.
  
  when you pick it up it feels like your at the wheel, every car you drive feels and controls completely 
 differently, its almost as if one car turns left the other will go right, everyone also has their 
 own car, your car of choice will be different to someone els'es, its not a game where everyone 
 goes for the pagani zonda.
  
  the graphics are also very smart, my favourite bit is when you go round the track for a second 
 and third time there are still mud path and tracks where everyone raced their car, and it also 
 effects gameplay as you can feel the bumps when you go over them (with a dualshock 3 controller) 
 and running at so and so frames per second and 750p HD resolution, its sheer brilliant on an hd 
 display.
  
  as for the sound, as good as the graphics, water splatters all over your car in a water-splattering-sounding 
 way and mud makes those Weird noises just like mud makes! and the bumps sound... pretty lush.
 
  
  but its not all good, mostly good but not all, i'm not too keen using the accelerometer as its 
 no way as good as it is in motorstorm and warhakwk, and it has gran turismo style crashing, scrapes, 
 huge dents, but no, you know what i mean, twist and turn Richard Hammond style crashes.
  
  so if your not a furiously hardcore gamer and dont have time for completing a 30 - hour long story 
 then this really is the game your going to need for your ps3.
  
  (not saying that furiously hardcore gamers cant get it!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: May 7, 2008 9:39 am PT
Review:  I'm not a huge racing game fan, i'm not even a racing game fan but Sega Rally poses somthing different!!
 
  Forget the seriousness of Grand Turismo.. Sega Rally leaves behind that boring equasion of Car+Road=Mediocre 
 Racing game.. SR is just plain and simple, dirt-filled racing at it's best!!
  
  Anyway, lets start with the graphics... AMAZING!!! when you drive through a muddy puddle, dirt flies 
 everyware and sticks to the car, then if you skid through some water, some of the mud actualy slips 
 off and whats left gleams with muddy delight in the sun! Tracks are pulled apart in real time too! 
 if you drive into some mud and then into some snow, a big muddy tyre track of muddy snow will be 
 left behind and will stay thre for the length of the race!! 
  Dust will cover the car when driving through... well.... someware dusty!!!
  
  Now lets move on 
 with the actual gameplay!!..
  At first, SR can seem a little daunging as it can take a race or 2 to get to grips with the surprisingly 
 limber controls!
  Drifting is also a big part of the SR experience!! Much like the controls, it doesn't take long 
 to master the art of drifting and it looks oh' so cool once you got the gist of it!!!
  Tracks are cleaverly layed out in an easy-to-use fasion at the option screen..
  Basicaly, they 
 are catagories such as Safari, Alpine, Tropical... and each catogorie will have 4 or 5 different 
 corses for you to choose from, labled 1, 2, 3, Ect..
  Racing itself is great fun!!!
  The actual layout is quite simple.... first you choose from a list of 'difficulties' that you unlock 
 as you progress... they arn't actualy diffficulties, just differnt degres of racing standards.. in 
 other words, 'Amature', 'Pro', 'Master', Ect....
  Then, you choose what tracks you want to race on... (The track's themself's arn't actualy optional, 
 instead you get one of those 'bulk-race' things where you race on 3 different tracks to earn points, 
 and point unlock stuff like new carsand stuff)
  
  Multi-player is probably the best part of the game, wheather it's on or off-line!!
  off-line, 
 it's just your basic split-screen racer but it's still great fun, zooming in and out of corners 
 and sliding into each-other!!!
  
  Unfortunatly, like GT, there isn't an ounce of car dammage avalible!... on the other hand, you can 
 coat yourself in mud and fly over big bumpy parts of the track!... Infact, it is possible to jump 
 over other cars if your lucky enough!!
  
  The only real downside to it all is the minor shortage of cars!!
  There are 3 car catogories,...'Premier', 
 'Modified', and 'Master'... each catagorie has about 5 cars each and a few more avalible to unlock, 
 this may not seem so bad, and it isn't, but it doesn't really feel like much of a choice!!... on 
 the plus side, each car has 3 different paint jobs you can unlock, just by simply driving them 
 so-many miles!!
  Track's are the same as the cars, all in catagories with extra unlocables ones for doing well!! 
 But dont worry, there is about 20-odd tracks that you can rip-up and slide along!!
  
  And thats it really!!... i would really recomend you get this one! it's great on it's own and it's 
 greater with mates!!!... I don't even like Racers but there is just somthing really special about 
 this one!!!
  BUY, IT BUY, IT BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bearded_snowman
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 25, 2008 10:10 am PT
Review:  Being a fan of the series and arcade racers in general, I was really looking forward to this game 
 from the very first screen shot I saw. Then, after seeing it in action I was even more psyched 
 about Sega Rally Revo.
  
  I finally bought a copy last month and I have to say that I'm glad I did (I was a bit skeptical 
 after playing the demo) . The game looks incredible with detailed cars, beautiful tracks (Sega makes 
 the best race tracks) and the deformation of the tracks themselves (craving through snow, mud or 
 water is always fun) . Each car kicks up dirt and mud all over the place and makes this game feel 
 real dirty (that's a good thing since it is a rally game) . More tracks would have been nice but 
 it's a Sega rally game so quality over quantity is the name of the game here.
  
  The controls take a little getting used to as they are a little sensitive and loose but it only 
 takes a few races to get a handle on it. That's my only grip with this game  the controls, I just 
 wish they were tighter like the classic '95 Sega rally championship.
  
  Other than that this game is a blast to play  online and offline. The action is fierce and AI 
 is quite good as well giving you a run for your money without being cheap. Overall, a very fun 
 game especially for those who liked the first 2 Sega rallies.
  
  I recommend this to anyone who likes arcade racers and Sega rally in general. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fazedjb
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:56 am PT
Review:  I couldn't wait to load up Sega Rally for the PS3 (eu) as I used to love the slidey car phyics 
 on the old Sega Saturn Console and "true" arcade feel that the game possesed. I must admit i was 
 holding my breath as it loaded up because I feared the "Slide" would have all but gone and I would 
 have just a Motorstorm clone with Glossy rally cars.
  
  Sega rally is a racer from way back, where you race a set number of laps around various courses 
 amasing points to try and win the championship. your awarded points for 1st, 2nd, etc and the more 
 points you get the more levels and courses become available to you. An online mode is fun to play, 
 but wait till your OK at driving unless you want to get caned everytime... I'm Online :) 
  
  The game loads up pretty quick and I'm overjoyed to anounce that the mad physics that made sega 
 rally such a hit for me the 1st time are intact. Your either gonna love or hate the way the car 
 handles in this game, there is a real knack to cornering and throwing the car sideways around a 
 bend that otherwise would be too harsh. The graphics are Just like you'd expect from the PS3 and 
 being an age old speccy veteran anything better than cyan and black is good for me. 
  
  The music is the standard arcade affair with outrunesque type tunes. No hardcore gangster or Heavy 
 metal tunes to be found here, just pure upbeat arcade rythm's that mooch along in the background 
 just fine. Nothing great though I might add and the sounds of the engine tend to overpower the 
 music anyhand.
  
  As for content there is enough to keep me occupied for a faie while. the 1st few courses are easy 
 enough but it soon becomes apparant that you have to learn the car handling and the course layout 
 if you are to get anywhere near 1st place in the later games. There are enough cars to please the 
 majority too- although handling didnt seem that different for each car to me.
  There are 20 odd tracks (inc 1 or 2 reverse courses) to keep your memory busy and the track deformation 
 is an absolute blast. I love the way I can fly round a corner on my second lap and see the tyre 
 tracks from my previous lap stretch out before me heading for the exact same wall i'm heading for 
 now, there to re-affirm the exact same mistake I made before. The tracks in the snow really do 
 make a difference to the cars grip as well, its not just there for show.
  
  this game is good. but it could have been better. but then again everything COULD be better. crash 
 damage, career mode and other novelties are missing from this game but in my opinion its an Arcade 
 racer, pure pick up and go, keeping it simple, and thats what i love about Sega games, No instructions 
 to read, just play- works for me!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: migueldias94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 5:46 am PT
Review:  Sega Rally is based on fotorealism wich is tracks and cars graphics.
  I think that Sega Rally is very cool, it can't be a simulator but comparing with Colin McRae: Dirt 
 it is very cool.
  With an amazing gameplay and cool graphics i give it a 8.5.
  But Sega Rally also has bad things like the cars, in your career you don't have the cars that you 
 already have at multiplayer mode.
  Oh! Another bad thing is that you can't choose a famous driver like Loeb or Peter. But it's a Sega 
 game, and we all know that Sega make games for fun.
  I like it! lol
  My Evaluation:
  
  GRAPHICS: 9.0
  SOUND: 8.5
  GAMEPLAY: 9.0
  VALUE: 8.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: guyhunter
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2007 2:07 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 version of Sega Rally (Revo) is fantastic. I've been a fan of Sega Rally since it hit the 
 arcades over a decade ago. Over a decade later and Sega give it the HD console treatment. So how 
 does it stack up?
  
  I'm happy to report that if you loved the old Sega Rally you may as well just stop reading now 
 and go and buy a copy!
  
  If you don't know what to expect Sega Rally is an arcade racer with a reasonable single player 
 mode, but where it really shines is online. I've been hosting a lot of 6 player games recently 
 and I've experienced 0 lag, and people connect very quickly. So currently there is a very active 
 Sega Rally community.
  
  Like I said Sega Rally is an arcade racer so this means flying around the track as fast as you 
 possibly can, no damage, just bouncing off stuff and keeping on going. This makes for some interesting 
 races online as people bounce you into the walls or use your car as baracade as they take a turn. 
 This might put some people off but I love it. I find myself laughing out loud as I watch a car 
 come flying over my roof and landing in front of me.
  
  One of the amazing things Sega Rally does is the track deforms as you race around on it. This is 
 an amazing thing to watch, and it really does impact on how the game plays. We've seen something 
 like this before in MotorStorm but this time it is taken to amazing new levels.
  
  Now time for a quick run down on 
  
  Graphics - this is 1 amazing 
 looking game. It has a crazy cartoonish arcade look to it., with 0 slowdown.
  
  Sound - the cars sound great, the audio in the background is great, shame they don't have the Game 
 Over song you used to hear in the original.
  
  Single player - good, if you are looking for a great single player rally game on PS3 I suggest 
 you go buy Dirt. I have both games and both are fantastic in different ways.
  
  Multiplayer - split screen 2 player is okay, but where this game really shines is the 6 player 
 online. This is the best online arcade racer in quite a while.
  
  Finally should you buy it?
  
  If you are a fan of the original HELL YES! Just go buy a copy 
 now.
  
  If you are looking for a great online arcade racer that's another HELL YES.
  
  If you are looking for a great single player game and you have no interest in online multi player 
 I say NO. Do yourself a favour and go buy Dirt. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StealthRaiden
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:51 pm PT
Review:  The PS3 version of this game is incredible, I just loved it in every way possible, the graphics 
 are great, gameplay is really addicted and fun, volume is nice to when you hear the engines roaring 
 in the dirt, theres a lot of cars and tracks for you to never get bored and different kinds of 
 ways to race, so if you own a PS3 then you should get this game because if you don't you will never 
 know what your missing on. If you like Dirt you should get this game because it is sort of like 
 Dirt except much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerboi27
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 13, 2007 11:27 pm PT
Review:  Why do most people say Dirt is a MUCH better game.... when its not ....
  Dirt drives VERY floaty.. like for example.. when ur goin at a high speed and ur about to make a 
 turn... you will get the feeling that ur car will just take off LOL im serious... and i also noticed 
 that the turning point of the car is the center ... which is kinda unrealistic.... another thing 
 about Dirt.... is that there is no real online gameplay.. all u do is just race by urself and try 
 to beat the clock... then compare it with other people (i was VERY disappointed by this cause i 
 love online) ..
  anyways lemme stop comparing the 2 games and get on the review lol
  
  First off... pros and cons... sry if i missed anything but i just got the game a few days ago kk
 
  
  Pros: -Great graphics (arcade look)
  -Geodeformation is a great new feature (although i dont think it affects too much of ur driving... i 
 just thought its a great new add on; Cool to look at too)
  -solid FPS (even online)
  -Up to 6 players in an online game (i think 6 is just right cause ... too many cars = crowded)
 
  -2 player offline splitscreen (biggie for me cause i friends come over a lot and yeah... u know 
 also in splitscreen.. the FPS doesnt dip and graphics are toned down either so.... cool)
  -challenging Champion mode (basicaly the career mode... i put challenging cause the AI cars go really 
 fast... and they almost never go out of control)
  -Use of the Sixaxis ( I think its a good option... gives u more of a challeng when u master how 
 to drive with the stick)
  *theres probably more pros... i just cant think of all of them right now so yeah*
  
  Cons:
 
  -Not a ton of cars u can choose from (Aprox 30 cars... I dont have a problem with it ... but I admit 
 its not a lot compared to like GT for ex LOL)
  -Not a ton of maps to play on (Theres about 18+ maps to play ... i personaly think thats enough 
 but some people like to have Tons of maps top play on so it feels fresh and more challenging not 
 knowing what to expect)
  -Cant really customize the cars like in NFS games
  -Motion sensing (To me its a bit too sensative and there isnt an option to adjust it... kind of 
 a disappointment to me but its not horrible)
  -needs more options.... A lot of games, not just racing, lack some important in game options... like 
 for ex..... You cant adjust the sensativity of the motion sensing (ive mentioned before) ... u cant 
 change b/w vertical and horizontal view when ur playing splitscreen (not a biggie but some people 
 like it one or the other) . stuff like that.
  -There is no real lobby for online play (kinda like ranbow6 vegas sorta thing... to be honest.... it 
 sorta bothers me.. but its not that big a deal, i just wanna get racing!)
  -NEED MORE PLAYERS ONLINE.... seriously i play it online a few times... but takes a while to find 
 enough people so PLZ MORE People!!! its really GREAT online ... no lag.... no fps dips !
  
  *These are all I can think of right now... so... if u happen to catch anything, plz dont flame me 
 lol... i tried.
  
  
  
  Gameplay 8.8/10 :
  Fast paced.... high speed.... smooth drifts.... Sweet rally style gameplay ;-)
 
  I would have gave it a 9.. its just I personally like arcade racers more than simulation racers 
 so... perhaps my rating was biased subcontiously (hence me taking 0.2 points off making it look 
 like i made an effort :P )
  
  Graphics 9.3/10 :
  Really bright colors.... sharp and shiny car models.... really good environment graphics too... theres 
 only 2 things about the graphics that ive noticed which are not so great. (1) the people .. look 
 fake lol... i know it sounds dumb but its true... its probably not noticeable when ur racing but 
 its true. (2) The track deformaties have jaggy edges also not noticeable unless ur staring at it 
 ... I notice these things cause sometimes (dont ask me why) i like to just drive around the track 
 making donuts and trying to ram into people (i failed) so.....
  
  Sound 8.0/10 :
  i really dont know how good the sound is cause I dont have those cars (in real life) so... i cant 
 tell if they sound alike.... therfore i just put an average score...
  
  Value (how long u can play it) 8.7/10 :
  The single player career mode will take u a while cause 
 theres some cars and tracks to unlock... also theres splitscreen; Playing with friends is fun and 
 can last a while too....
  Online too... im just a bit worried about online cause a lot of people hear things like Dirt blows 
 sega rally out of the water so they might be afraid to get the game ... therfore making online less 
 populated ... u no wat happens to a game that has no one playing online right? yeah.... hopfully 
 that doesnt happen.. cause its really fun!
  
  OVERALL ***8.8/10 ***
  Its not an average score.... it just feels like an 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Sega Rally Revo is a nice arcadey-like offroder in the vain of Motorstorm, and altough it looks 
 pretty, just like the offcial review, and much like Surf's Up, my first review, pretty damn shallow. 
 The mud on the cars are awesome looking, and very well done. The problem lies in the track depth 
 and the amount of cars that can be unlocked. The tracks are pretty standard fair for a arcade racer, 
 a tropical village that kinda looks like it is in Fiji, a alpine town that looks like it is in 
 the Swiss Alps, etc. You get a Subaru, a Mistubishi, a Skoda, etc. Well, you only get three paint 
 designs for each car, and that is it. Pretty much sums up the shallowness. The A. I. is pretty dumb, 
 you can just go all-out on the gas pedal and still win. Yeah, is that 'arcadey to you? If you pick 
 it up, just like Surf's Up, it will not last long. But if you liked Motorstorm or DiRT and just 
 want another game where you can just ride dirty, this is the one. It may not go up against a certain 
 game coming soon called MX vs. ATV Untamed, but it is just straghit up, down 'n dirty rally racing. 
 Is there nothing better than going thourgh mud in a rally car? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 13, 2007 10:18 am PT
Review:  You can say anything you want, but the Sega Rally series have been good to us. The games in the 
 series were extremely arcade, and a good bit of fun to play. Unfortunately, Sega Rally Revo in 
 next gen can't give the same good old feeling as its predecessors.
  
  When you play this game for the very first time, you probably notice the neat graphics. Good damage 
 model, great lighting, and I could go on like this forever. And, as you probably know, next gen 
 isn't only the looks, it is also the interaction with the environment. Like water that takes away 
 the mud as you cross it, and stuff like that.
  
  But why does this review starts so negative? It is actually next gen, so this title should be alright 
 then? Sadly enough, the opponent AI is poor. Alright, this can be helped by its good online functions. 
 But, as a training mode, the singleplayer doesn't do its job. But there are more problems. Like 
 the lack of variety in the races. And also, the lack of tracks in the game.
  
  But, we should respect this, because there are almost no next gen old school race games out there. 
 But even that can't save this Sega title. So, if you're a fan of rally racing, and have a next 
 gen console at home, you should probably check out Colin McRae DiRT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bassjean
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 4:56 pm PT
Review:  At first you are going to find it difficult to win, but use manual gears . You will get used to 
 it in no time and start getting up the leaderboard. The graphics are very good and the details 
 are nice. Dirt has the edge with HDR but hey, theres no framerate issues with Sega rally revo! 
 The cars are modelled well with real time reflections, dirt sticks realistically, but the great 
 part? go through a puddle leave a ditch, it stays there! and actualy DOES affect the road, its 
 not aesthetic like motorstorm. Wonderful game, give it a chance, really get yourself a force feedback 
 wheel then it really does shine! one of the best arcade racing experiences for ages! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rmvm
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 9, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I remember playing the original sega rally on the arcade 10 years ago and it was great... Expecting 
 an evolution on the series after all this time will turned out to be a disappointment... the game 
 visually looks interesting... as it should for this is 2007... environment, dirt and mud and car 
 models look great... so does the track deformation (main gimmick of the game) which also has some 
 effect on the steering... but since the game is so arcade you really won't really be bothered by 
 it or feel a need to to put your driving skills to the test as you fly through those bumps at insane 
 speeds totally in control... actually thats one of the weird things about the game... winning isn't 
 pleasurable... its possible to finish races in first place with your finger locked to the Gas button... 
 you happily bounce off bushes on the curves and continue your path to victory... on the same tracks 
 over and over again... i guess sega rally has retained the frenetic speed and powerslide action 
 of the series... but after so many years i don't think the lousy number of tracks featured, track 
 deformation gimmick and shiny mud on the rear bumper make this game any better or worth anything 
 more than other racing options out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSteve
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 4:54 am PT
Review:  On the whole the game is OK, not fantastic, not poor.
  
  On the plus side you have plenty of cars, decent tracks, nice touches such as the cars gaining 
 more dirt on them as you go around and the fact you can end up with ruts in the road if all the 
 cars follow the same path.
  
  However, it has to be said, with a controller its neigh on impossible to drive in a straight line. 
 You end up swinging from side to side in a vein effort to regain control.
  
  With a steering wheel however, its a bit easier and you do get great feedback and its a lot easier 
 to drive.
  
  However you need to have decent driving skills to catch the slides, luckily I have but my m8 (who 
 isn't bad at GT4) simply could not get on with the game, so accessibility is a question mark.
 
  
  However, the game left us both cold. Even if you did win, you just didn't feel like you had achieved 
 anything. I don't know, its a hard thing to describe.
  
  The physics are also a bit suspect, I've never seen a bush that was has hard as concrete and causes 
 you to spin 180 degrees when you slightly touch it.
  
  It ended up being a frustrating experience.
  
  If this game does interest you, its best to 
 rent it first to make sure you like it, don't waste your money by buying it as you may end up getting 
 as frustrated as us!
  
  Oh, and someone needs to tell Sony about 'menus' - just to have a quick race you end up needing 
 to go through about 5 screens, selecting track, car, car setup, car colour etc...
  
  Just one or two screens with drop downs or alike would be have been better! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scooby1970
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 2, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  Sega Rally has finally hit the shelves. The demo has been on the PSN stores for a while and given 
 us a glimpse of what to expect... However, don't believe what you see in the demo - the final retail 
 version of Sega Rally isone of the greatest racing games ever made, and is easily up there with 
 Motorstorm as the best PS3 racer.
  
  For those of us who remember the original arcade and Sega Saturn/Dreamcast versions of this game, 
 you will be instantly familier with the handling of the rally cars on offer. This is arcade racing 
 at it's best! You bomb around the track and an unbelivable speed, you perform some amazing skids 
 around corners, you jump over bumps and the most important thing ever... You have more fun than 
 you can shake a stick at!
  
  This game rewards you the more you play it. there are ample tracks and many many different racing 
 styles that need to be mastered. The game features the best track deformation of any game ever, 
 which really does ensure that you have to learn to use your vehicle to your best ability.
  
  The options involved are quite simple. Simply choose your race type (Championship, Quick Race, 
 Online, Split Time etc) , choose your car from the excellent selection, choose your tyre type and 
 away to go! No need for boring tweaking of the car, just pick up and drive. Once participating 
 in any event you'll be having such a laugh that time will fly by as you just know you have to pass 
 just one more car... unlock just one more strip, unlock one more car, unlock one more track etc 
 etc... Just amazing!
  
  Graphically this game rocks. Graphics are bold and bright and it feels like a perfect arcade game 
 (basically because it is!) . Everything zips by at a steady 30fps, but sometimes things seem to 
 be so fast you'll think you really are driving at 100mph! Framerate is rock solid, even when you 
 have 6 cars onscreen and mud flying everywhere. The track deformation effect has to be seen to 
 believe and overall it's one of the best looking PS3 games out there.
  
  On the sound front, it has everything a arcade racing game should have. Pumping soundtrack, great 
 effects and of-course your American co-driver screaming directions at you. It all fits in perfectly.
 
  
  At to all this so nice finishing touches such as animals on the tracks, planes flying over-head, 
 trains passing you by and it all adds up to be one of this years truly great un-hyped classics.
 
  
  Forget the reviews made by people who do not like FUN arcade games, forget the reviews made by 
 people who do not remember the original, infact forget this review and play it yourself. You will 
 not be dissapointed as it is a blast to play, and a game that anyone in your family can just pick 
 up and play.
  
  Enjoy, it really is that good! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
