-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Shaun White Snowboarding
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/shaunwhitesnowboarding/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Mountains are huge and look quite nice.
 Throwing snowballs at buddies is a welcome treat.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Platforming in a snowboarding game is an awful idea.
 No sense of speed.
 Focus meter depletes way too quickly.
 Only four mountains, three of which are fictitious.
 Crashes are lame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 16, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 6.3, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 193 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Snowboarding
Date: Nov 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Frustrating issues make Shaun White Snowboarding seem less like a downhill rush and more like an 
 uphill grind. 

  Shaun White is a real person. He is famous for riding boards (of both the skate and snow variety) 
 and winning medals in international competitions. The snowboarding game to which he has lent his 
 name seems to take place in the real world, where gravity limits how high you can jump and what 
 sort of tricks you can pull off. Unfortunately, Shaun White Snowboarding too often breaks away 
 from this realistic depiction. The activities you'll be competing in so wildly clash with the actual 
 sport that this feels more like a poorly conceived platformer than an exciting sporting extravaganza. 
 Because of the dichotomy between real-life actions and fantasy land adventuring, Shaun White's 
 first game is choppy, unfocused, and way too aggravating to be fun.  

           Sure, the snow looks pretty, but it gives polar bears ample opportunity to ambush you. 

  Shaun White Snowboarding offers four huge mountains that you are free to explore however you wish; 
 there are no time limits or preset paths to follow. Taking part in freestyle activities or trying 
 to find the best places to perform tricks in this open world can be mildly entertaining, but there 
 is structure when you tire of trying to make your own fun. Though you'll be asked to create your 
 own character at the start of the game, your actual role is little more than errand boy (or girl) 
 for Shaun White. The limited cutscenes -- including White's awkward stab at asking out a girl -- are 
 a poor attempt at creating a likable universe in which to grind fallen trees. Unfortunately, the 
 snowboarding is every bit as shallow as the story. The simple controls let you spin and grab your 
 board with ease, but the experience lacks impact; it feels as if you're hovering slightly above 
 the earth at all times instead of carving a path down a snowy mountain. The sense of speed is also 
 nonexistent; even when you're flying down a nearly vertical slope at top speeds, complete with 
 unnecessary motion blur, it still feels slower than a child would travel on a backyard sled. And 
 when you do crash, instead of wreaking havoc to your fragile body, you'll gracefully bounce back 
 onto your feet with only a slight dip in velocity.  

  And instead of progressing through the game by pulling off wicked grabs and gravity-defying flips, 
 you'll spend the majority of your time trying to track down hard-to-reach coins. While this mechanic 
 serves as the backbone for many enjoyable platformers, it is arduous in a game with such poor locomotion. 
 Navigating around the environment with a board strapped to your feet is way too finicky, making 
 the continual backtracking to grind a string of rickety planks or nail the perfect angle off a 
 ramp an absolute chore. Your reward for grabbing the coins is a whole new batch distributed across 
 the four mountains. Each round of collecting comes with a new focus power, which lets you break 
 down walls, go slightly faster, or catch extra air off a ramp. Unfortunately, your focus ability 
 is tied to a diminishing meter that requires you to perform tricks to fill it. This means you'll 
 have one or two attempts to snatch a coin before you're relegated to performing random tricks for 
 10 minutes to get another chance at the prize.  

  When you finally nab every coin, you'll be treated to a series of events that test your ability 
 to pull off death-defying tricks. Actual snowboarding at last! Sadly, these events are only slightly 
 more tolerable than the inane fetch quests they follow. The trick system is far too limited to 
 hold your interest for long. Also, the focus abilities that give you super powers are often removed 
 during these activities, which means you cant perform the higher leaps and other feats you earned -- so 
 in comparison, your jumping ability feels even more stunted and unsatisfying. There is also a severe 
 lack of variety among the four mountain ranges. Aside from Park City these are fictional locations -- taking 
 place in the nebulous "Europe" as opposed to a real resort like Zermatt -- but the cavalcade of fallen 
 trees and submerged cabins becomes monotonous before long. And while the unfettered canvas of snow 
 and rocky cliffs look quite impressive, the stilted animations of your rider combined with unpredictable 
 collision detection remove any chance of immersion.  

           Crashing into trees is no problem -- you'll bounce right off.      

  Thankfully, the 
 multiplayer mode brings a little bit of life to this package. Up to 16 players can take to a mountain 
 at one time, venturing wherever they like in the open world. Any forced exploration has been removed 
 here; players can grind and flip in whatever manner they please. There are a number of different 
 events littered around the slopes to compete in, too. The simple racing and jibbing exercises are 
 only mildly interesting on their own, but the ability to toss snowballs at your competitors adds 
 a little bit of chaotic joy to the mix. Performing a perfect 1080 can be fun, but it's even more 
 entertaining pelting your buddy just before he or she lands a particularly difficult trick. Many 
 of the same flaws present in the single-player mode are just as noticeable here, so don't expect 
 more than a few runs before you tire of the simple tricks and touchy physics. Still, this is clearly 
 the most entertaining aspect of the game.  

  Shaun White Snowboarding never commits to being either a realistic simulation or an over-the-top, 
 arcade-style game -- which makes the experience feel uneven and unsatisfying. The long deviation 
 to platforming exploration feels decidedly out of place here, conjuring up excruciating trials 
 that have almost nothing to do with the actual sport. However, even as a pure snowboarding game, 
 Shaun White comes up way short. Mindlessly performing tricks either by yourself or with friends 
 can be enjoyable for a while, but the lack of depth ensures your attention won't be grabbed for 
 long. Shaun White Snowboarding is like trying to save a snowball in your freezer until summer -- it 
 seems like a good idea, but never really works out.  

    Editor's Note: This review previously stated that all of the mountains in the game are fictitious. 
 In fact, Park City is based on a resort in Utah. GameSpot regrets the error.       
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (21 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WorldWideGod69
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  shaun white snowboarding was a total let down. even the first amped for the original xbox beats 
 this game. the graphics are horrible, its completly unrealistic, and it just wasnt what i was hoping 
 for when i bought it. another thing is the way the game makes it seem like you are going fast. 
 it just looks like you are going the same speed but the wind is going by faster. and i hate the 
 fact that i can go super slow and barely make it up the jump but then all of a sudden get an automatic 
 speed boost and clear the gap. the fact that you can get off your board and go almost anywhere 
 in the mountain does not make up for all the other faults in the game. avalanches are a stupid 
 idea and they're too easy to avoid in this game. being able to do a triple corked 720 off of a 
 rock is not appealing to me. also the game is very glitchy. ive grinded a rail with my head tons 
 of times and thats not the only repeating glitch. i like how they made the loading menu a free 
 endless halfpipe that you can control while the game loads but other than that there really isnt 
 any positive aspects to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DownloadFailed
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Well. Where to begin? Shaun White Snowboarding is about you, an upcoming boarder being "trained" 
 by the Flying Tomato himself. You start off in a simple training mode, wipe out, then Shaun walks 
 up to you and likes your moves and decides to help you (I had no say in the matter) . Now the goal 
 of the game is to collect 3 different giant coins placed around four different maps that consist 
 of different terrains and challenges. As soon as you jump on your board and begin to ride, you 
 know something is wrong. 
  The board movements are far from smooth. Running into a wall could possibly keep you there if you're 
 at the right angle. Forcing you to restart your game, although it doesn't happen often. The AI 
 of the computers riding around you is mediocre at best. Getting stuck behind benches, trees, and 
 constantly running into a grinding rail and falling down can explain itself. Now the actual control 
 of your character isn't too bad. The movements are simple enough, and at high speeds the control 
 seems smooth and easy. Taking air or trying to make a quick turn doesn't make the game seem any 
 less unfinished. 
  Bugs aside, this game can be actually enjoyable with friends. Playing online is quick and easy 
 and can be rather fun. At least until someone with a bad connection comes into the room, then you're 
 going to be seeing teleporting player models left and right. 
  I own the game and I've played it maybe twice since Christmas. I wouldn't recommend it to just 
 any player. I would recommend it though to a player who is in DESPERATE need of a realistic snowboarding 
 game. SSX was a great game. But like many others, it was all just racing. I really like the idea 
 of being able to hop of your board and walk around. I just wish that you could actually go inside 
 of the resort.
  Well final thoughts time: The graphics were amazing. The mountains looked so real from far away. 
 But the marks you make when moving around on your board didn't look as great. There are a lot of 
 bugs in the game and if you can truly take them and live with them, then buy the game. Otherwise, 
 if you're a picky gamer like me, you're going to find those bugs, want to expose them and be pissed 
 at the good money you wasted on the game until you get over it and just let it sit in your game 
 drawer or wherever you keep your games. 
  I've always thought this: Video game programmers need to tell themselves this over and over again 
 while working on a game, "Gamers are picky. If we slack off on anything, they WILL find it. They 
 will notice it, and they will mark us for it." If a company hands us an uncompleted game, we're 
 probably going to tear it apart and tell everyone whats wrong with it. Half-assed games won't fly 
 with us, so companies like Ubisoft (and OCCASIONALLY EA) need to step their game up. Literally. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 11, 2009 4:07 pm PT
Review:  When we think back to our favorite snowboarding games we think of 1080, Cool Boarders, and SSX. 
 Will Shaun White Snowboarding be on this list of great snowboarding games?
  
  
  
  Graphics = 7/10
  
  There are times where the graphics look really good but the majority of 
 this game looks more like a PS2 port. All the character models look pretty good except for the 
 most important character of the game, Shaun White. His character looks like it was rushed and lacks 
 the detail that the others have.
  The snow detail and effects are nicely done and there are really no signs of pop-up in the distance. 
 With that said the rest of the enviorments do not have much detail. At first look it just does 
 not have that next generation look.
  
  
  Sound = 7/10
  
  The voice acting is pretty corney and Shaun White tries to be like his long lost twin brother in 
 terms of making jokes. (Carrot Top)
  
  Sorry Shaun White but like Carrot Top you are not funny....... The voice acting seems a bit over-acted. 
 When you are not listening to bad jokes you get the beautiful sounds of snow being shredded and 
 a helicopter. 
  Now there is one shining star in the sound department and thats the soundtrack. The soundtrack 
 is outstanding.
  
  Gameplay = 7/10
  
  When you first start the game you are basically a deer in headlights. It took me 5 mins to figure 
 out to jump on my board. After a few crashes I figured out how to jump and pull off some half assed 
 tricks. Its not often that I need to look at the instruction booklet but I needed to this time. 
 Now after you figure out all the controls the game starts to get better and begins to feel more 
 realistic.
  I found playing with friends to be a lot of fun. When I first joined an online game I decided to 
 throw some snowballs at people and quickly found out that was a bad idea. 4 other players decided 
 to attack me with snowballs and I could not get up till they finished with me. When the host chose 
 which game type he wanted you have a choice to join or to just mess around the mountain on your 
 own. You are never forced to participate. I did not notice any lag while playing online which is 
 always a good sign.
  
  
  Overall = 7/10
  
  This is not the best snowboarding game but its certainly not the worst. 
  
  Good = 4 large 
 mountains to explore, Fun multiplayer modes and long single player mode.
  
  Bad = Graphics look dated, controls take a while to get used to, before you can advance in the 
 single player story you need to find stupid medalions. Corney voice acting....
  
  If you are a trophy whore like me then you will probably pick this game up anyways. The game will 
 take some time to get platinum but its definately not impossible.
  
  
  
  I recommend this game to "Trophy Whore's" only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lucario234
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 10:29 am PT
Review:  Alright first of all I persanolly love snowboarding games. So when I heard about this game I was 
 very excited. So I got this game. Well actually my brother helped me play for it. I couldnt wait 
 to play it.
  
  
  
  uckly I got it at target so I got all the extra stuff. Wich I think is lame because some people 
 wouldnt know that and ITs pointless that you have to buy it there or else the game is way to short. The 
 game play is very bad except for throwing snow balls at people wich is very fun. Also I found some 
 of the trophies very easy or very hard to get. Other wise creating your character is fun and the 
 graphics are great.
  
  
  I would defenitly suggest for you to rent this game before you buy it. hy because gameplay is not 
 terriable some trophies are way to hard or way to easy. If you really like snowboarding games go 
 buy it but make sure you try to buy it at target.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ugabradbob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 9:23 am PT
Review:  For all the reviewers disappointed because SW is not like SSX, chill out! This is a simulation-oriented 
 game, as opposed to the arcade orientation of SSX. Complaining that this game doesn't handle like 
 SSX is like complaining that a Ferrarri doesn't handle off-road like a Hummer does (or in this 
 case, that a Nissan sedan doesn't handle like a Hummer) . For what it is, it is not bad, but not 
 phenomenal. Character models could be a lot better, and I was hoping for much better environmental 
 graphics with the Assassin's Creed engine (stick figure trees? seriously?) . The use of the sticks 
 for tricks make the tricking system seem limited. The achievement system is poorly developed, and 
 apparently breaks down to 4 different tiers of boards. With some polishing this could be a great 
 game, but as is, it is still reasonable. Definitely worth playing, probably worth buying if you 
 can find a good deal somewhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thewolfpacisbac
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 6, 2009 10:31 pm PT
Review:  This game sucks the tricks are hard to do and theres no multiplayer except online but theres nothing 
 to do there. Throwing snowballs is fun but other than that it sucks never buy this game i have 
 it and i played it once for like 15 minutes and it's boring already. Online might be fun throwing 
 snowballs at each other but that will get boring fast. Tricks are hard to do grinding is the only 
 easy one. The controller rumbles too much everytime your in the air, everytime you land , everytime 
 you fall and everytime you grind. Theres only one cool thing that you can actually get of your snowboard. Graphics 
 are good but it's on ps3 you will see better graphics then than that. This game is nothing like 
 ssx no multiplayer split screen no cool areas with cool lights all there is is all snow but this 
 is not a good game to have like a one player story mode but.... it does. So I'm saying once again 
 Don't Buy This Game OK. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Me_L33T
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 9:00 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, I was not expecting much of it, from what I have heard about this game. But 
 when I popped it into my Playstation 3, I was plesently suprized. I love this game so far, its 
 quite fun.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are actually somewhat impressive. The mountians are big and 
 white, but the models in this game are actually pretty decent. Its not beautiful, but not FUBAR 
 either.
  
  Gameplay: This is what I like the most. The controls for this game are actually quite tight, and 
 the fact that you could actually get off your board and walk around was kinda cool. There are a 
 few extra things that you can do in this game, such as throwing snowballs at your friends or the 
 npc's and ramming into them while going down the moutian.
  
  Sound: This is where the game kinda fails. The soundtrack for this game is excellent, but the voice 
 work, don't even get me started. But you had to didn't you, yes you did. The voice work is full 
 of epic fail, trying to put snowboarder lingo into every sentence. But other than that, its decent
 
  
  Overall: Its a really fun game, but not for everyone. I would strongly recommend renting this game, 
 because it is actually really fun, but some people just wont really get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awolfyavis
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  I agree with the mediocre reviews. The graphics in this game are ok to look at, but could be MUCH 
 better. The characters look like something out of PS2 with some amorphous facial features blending. 
 Just look at Shaun's signature tomato do and it's almost embarrassing how bad the finish is. I 
 was thinking to myself, are you friggin' kidding. I've been playing Metal Gear GOP and the finish 
 in this game pales completely in comparison. I don't necessarily think that it is fair to compare 
 the look of this game to Metal Gear, but it costs the same and it's from UbiSoft Montreal AKA Rainbow 
 Six so I expected it to look better even if it isn't quite up to the standards of more polished 
 games.
  
  The game play was just downright boring compared to SSX which was my favorite PS2 snowboarding 
 game. I played SSX for hours and hours, but couldn't play Shaun White for more than a few hours 
 without feeling that this was a complete waste of my time. I kept wishing that it would be like 
 SSX, but alas no dice. I guess that the developers thought they could put Shaun's name on the game 
 and that it could be successful. They were just plain wrong, because when boiled down, this game 
 completely blows - dude. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gilbertkeith04
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  We have finally gotten the game that all us true boarders have been waiting for. This is the most 
 realistic snowboarding game ever made and seem to be missing any of the flaws that have gave this 
 game such a poor rating from gamespot. It is a true masterpiece when it comes to real boarding 
 unlike the arcade versions such as SSX and its series. I am SO EXCITED this game was released and 
 hope that the series continues and grows even better with more features even though if this was 
 the only one ever made! Thanks Ubisoft for making the greatest the boarding game ever made!
  
  We have finally gotten the game that all us true boarders have been waiting for. This is the 
 most realistic snowboarding game ever made and seem to be missing any of the flaws that have gave 
 this game such a poor rating from gamespot. It is a true masterpiece when it comes to real boarding 
 unlike the arcade versions such as SSX and its series. I am SO EXCITED this game was released and 
 hope that the series continues and grows even better with more features even though if this was 
 the only one ever made! Thanks Ubisoft for making the greatest the boarding game ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tic-tac-man8
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 7, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  Shaun White Snowboarding is an amazing game, in almost every aspect. 
  
  Visuals are exceptional, and make the experience feel more like you're on a real mountain, rather 
 than white coloured hills. Physics of riders are also very well done, suck as needing to shift 
 your weight on C-boxes, S-rails etc. 
  
  I would however suggest, if you like games where you can do quad backflips of 2-foot jumps, to 
 not get this game. It's very real-to-life of the amplitude of the tricks that can be done off smaller 
 jumps, rails, boxes, drops etc. However as the size of hucks you make increases (there are much 
 larger snow drifts and drops near the top of mountains, which you need to get a heli-lift to get 
 too) the tricks get much bigger and more stylized. 
  
  The variety is also very good, having all different types of riding, from parks (half-pipe, rails, 
 boxes, jumps) to 30-foot slopestyle drops. 
  
  The charlift/ helicopter also contribute very nicely to the game, making it continuous, rather 
 than doing single heats down a hill.
  
  The multiplayer is excellent as well. It gives the feeling of really chilling on a hill just messing 
 around, seshing on different things; and also more serious where you can invite people to a section 
 of the hill for a competition for money.
  
  The variety of different equipment available is also a very nice touch - Burton, Oakley etc. Everything 
 the rider is wearing can be upgraded and changed.
  
  There were a few glitches, nothing hugely noticeable (mostly just getting stuck for a few seconds 
 or something similar) . I don't see how the gamespot reviewer could find that many glitches to give 
 this game a '5', but he was definitely overlooking pretty much every other aspect of the game. 
 The 'not being able to fall' also seemed to be an issue for the review, but you can indeed fall, 
 and they can be quite bad if you are doing something big; it is the recovery that is very fast, 
 which is good because otherwise you would lose everyone you were riding with if you fell, and all 
 your speed. "Uphill Grind"? - I don't think so.
  
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
 
  Shaun White Snowboarding is an excellent real-life snowboarding game, and is very, very under 
 appreciated. I mean if you like fake-style snowboarding, then get 'Amped', but if you snowboard 
 in real-life and like the feeling of just riding and doing whatever you want without being limited, 
 and also working to get tricks dialed, then I would highly suggest this game.
  
  I have spent way too much time writing this.
  
  I was definitely on the edge with getting this 
 game but it is much better than its made out to be by the review; If you're on the edge like I 
 was, I'd say go for it.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Giantsallstar10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:16 am PT
Review:  Never listen to the gamespot reviewer he doesnt know what he is talking about. This guys says that 
 a game about snowboarding is stupid but it's not it's really fun. There is always something to 
 do in this game, and I don't know why the reviewer said that there was no sense of speed because 
 there definatly is. After reading the gamespot review I almost didnt want to buy this game because 
 they gave it such a bad rating. I went ahead and didnt listen to him and it is really fun. As I 
 said you can't get bored because there is allways something to do. DO NOT LISTEN TO THE GAMESPOT 
 REVIEWER!!!!!!!!! This is a great game and deserves a much better rating than it's getting. Going 
 online is great you can choose where you want to go and join a game and you can either fool around 
 on the mountain wile throwing snowballs at eachother or you can do challenges like races or freestyle 
 competitions. While fooling around on the mountains there is a good chance of getting an avalanch 
 and you have to snowboard away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Topher818
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  SWS is a fairly realistic snowboarding game. I think people go into it with the mindset that its 
 like SSX because thats the most popular snowboarding game to date and its probably what theyve 
 played. Believe me, its not, and its not meant to be. You start out the game like most noob snowboarders. 
 You cant huck 1080s or 900s right away, you can barely do a 540, you flail your arms while in the 
 air and so on. You actually have to play this game for a while to get good. Your player progresses 
 the further you get into the game, you CAN end up throwing down spins like that and later youre 
 arms dont flail at all or as much when you are flying through the air, its a technical game. Its 
 not like SSX where you can jump off a 500 ft cliff, take your feet out of the bindings, twist your 
 body all the way around, grab the board at a crazy unbelievable angle, and do like a 5000 degree 
 spin with 6 backflips. If you are looking for instant satisfaction this probably wont be the game 
 for you. It takes a while to progress. The controls are pretty good. It would have been better 
 if they made the layout more like Skate. Instead R2 is your jump button. The right analog stick 
 is your grab button which can be used in conjunction with the R2 button again once your in the 
 air to tweak your grabs out. If you press R3 while moving the analog stick in any direction that 
 opens up another set of grabs. The Left analog stick controls your spins, flips, and speed controls. 
 The spins and flips are self explanatory but the speed controls consist of moving the analog stick 
 around too. Left or right with the left analog stick lets you do a speed check where you slow down 
 without stopping. Back on the analog stick is your brake which can pose problems sometimes when 
 you are trying to do backflips. Rails and boxes are fun to grind on. Your board seems to have a 
 rail or fun box magnet in it sometimes as while your in the air there is some mysterious force 
 pulling you toward the rail or box. Left on the analog stick spins you while youre grinding. The 
 right analog stick does nose and tail presses and butters on the rails. They got the rail tricks 
 horribly wrong in this game. There are no 5-0 grinds, crookeds or anything other than the standard 
 tricks. Only frontside and backside boardslides and 50-50s. The boards stats are realistic. People 
 complain about no sense of speed. I cant tell you as someone whos snowboarded all his life that 
 this game does get the sense of speed pretty close. Let me tell you, when you are snowboarding 
 through powder it slows you down quite a bit. Groomed trails can also slow you down quite a bit 
 too, its called friction. The type of board you use is the key to speed and control. Park and freestyle 
 boards arent made for speed. The game gets that correct. Freeride boards however, are. People that 
 are complaining about the "lack of speed" are probably using a park or freestyle board in the backcountry 
 and powder. Again, they arent made for that. You actually have to buy a freeride board if you want 
 to go fast and turn fast in the powder. Likewise, if you take a freeride board to the park it wont 
 work. Boots, bindings, jackets, gloves and so on dont effect any stats. The graphics in this game 
 arent amazing. I was kind of disappointed because I was under the impression that it was going 
 to look as amazing as Assassins Creed because the game uses the AC engine. They arent bad and they 
 are nothing like Wii graphics like was said in other reviews. Throwing snowballs is fun and funny. 
 It is however gay when the snowballs are being thrown at you. When youre doing a deathrace and 
 you hit somebody with a snowball and pass them youll laugh, but as soon as you see the blue snowball 
 meter fill up on your back you start to panic because you know you are going to be hit. Now onto 
 the unrealistic parts of SWS. First off the scoring is pretty unbelievable. In order to get the 
 most amount of money in an event you have to put up some crazy numbers or times. For instance for 
 some halfpipe contests the highest prize amount takes 20,000 points. If you fall once that is pretty 
 much an unattainable score. Next, you can take some pretty massive cliff drops. Its not as unrealistic 
 as SSX but its still pretty unbelieveable when you take like a 150-200 ft cliff drop without blowing 
 a knee out. This game can get glitchey. Many times Ive hit a tree and got stuck outside of it but 
 later managed to pass through it and continue on my merry way. The camera can get in your way sometimes 
 too. Many times Ive thought Ive stopped on the mountain to walk up to a spot I want to session 
 and Ive moved the right analog stick to move the camera but because I wasnt fully stopped I just 
 buttered around and fell. With the "focus" powers they tried making this game more "arcadey". Theres 
 a speed focus, power ram focus, and a time slow down focus. This can make the game more or less 
 enjoyable depending on how you want to play it. Overall this is a good game. Its more enjoyable 
 for people that have, or do snowboard. People whove only watched the Xgames or Olympics and think 
 you can do the tricks that the top caliber snowboarders can do will probably not like this game 
 as it takes a while for your character to reach that level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Storyteller89
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 29, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, do not listen to all the negative reviews this game got. It's not all that bad. It 
 is no masterpiece, but it certainly is the best snowboarding game for the new consoles. The first 
 impression, when you start playing the game, you'll think: "The graphics suck, the controls suck, 
 this game can't be any good." At least that's how I felt and honestly that's how a lot of players 
 felt at first. However, after having a little break and coming back to play the game in afternoon, 
 I learned to do the tricks right, I learned the controls and this game started to be a lot of fun. 
 I mean really, as in snowboarding, it's not like they give you the board and you can just go do 
 the tricks, in this game you have to learn the controls and trust me. Once you learn them, they 
 won't feel that bad anymore. It won't take even more than one to two hours to learn the basic controls 
 and make the game roll smoothly.
  
  First I shall go to the bad things about this game. The graphics aren't really good, but not that 
 bad either. I mean, you can certainly live with them. They're just a little better than Wii's graphics, 
 so go figure how it looks like. Then the fact that there're only four mountains, however I'm sure 
 they will let you download more from your console network, once they've created more. Choosing 
 your face is a good option, but the fact that there's only one face with beard, no dreadlocks, 
 a few guys with just a little longer hair and the rest are pretty much the same is not a good selection. 
 I'm sure you'll still find a face just for you, anyway. As I mentioned, the first impression is 
 not a good thing, but it may also be a good thing. When I started snowboarding, I thought, hell 
 no. I will never learn this. I had the same feeling about the game, it felt too hard, cause of 
 the controls and so, but it didn't take long 'till I learned the controls and the game became really 
 fun. What I could say about the game is, that it creates a snowboarder of you and that if something 
 is a challenge for a game. Sometimes landing makes it feel a little like you'd be a rock, but while 
 playing I can assure you, it will be only sometimes, not like on the clips you've seen.
  
  Then the good things. I could put this short and say all the rest, but I'll explain you a few things. 
 The selection of jackets, boards, gloves and all the stuff you could imagine for a snowboarder 
 is wide and good. As a bonus, there are few "funny" costumes. The boards do have a difference and 
 meaning for different kind of snowboarding, so it's not just about the looks. After learning the 
 controls (and trust me, you will learn them in 1 to 2 hours, doesn't matter how good gamer you 
 are) , the gameplay becomes real fun and you'll certainly enjoy it for many years. As a bonus, it 
 also makes you feel like you want to go snowboard yourself. Each one of the four mountains provides 
 a wide snowboarding area and that's certainly a good thing. Every idea of the game is realistic, 
 so you won't have to worry about getting another Amped 3.
  
  Overall, this game is definately the best snowboarding game for the new consoles and I do recommend 
 this for every snowboarder and gamers who like these type of games. It may be hard at first, but 
 you'll get into it and boy will you love it after that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genxseven
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:02 am PT
Review:  Why are the reviews so negative for this game. It's really not a bad game as the "professional" 
 critics make it out to be. I agree with them most of the time, however, this time around I have 
 to disagree. This is a very enjoyable game. It is fun. Its basically a hybrid of reality and fantasy 
 physics. Some things that could have made the game better is a better in game progression system 
 and maybe a little tutorial to warm you up. Also, the map could have been better. But in the end, 
 the game makes you a part of its world and you kind of get caught in it. It is very exhilarating 
 making big jumps and doing some unbelievable jibs. It is a must for any snowboarder and even for 
 people who never snowboarded in their life. I think I may have found my snowboarding fix for the 
 summer! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camppete
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 19, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Short and sweet. Looks great, plays ok, you can get the sense of speed by changing the camera angle 
 to over the shoulder. Will keep me amused until I do it for real. Plus it's the only snowboarding 
 game on to PS3, so will do until someone tops it.
  
  If only Skate would do a version?
  
  100 words eh, ok.....
  
  one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, 
 one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one 
 hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, 
 one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one 
 hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, 
 one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one 
 hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, 
 one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, one hundred, HAH 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hero_ofthe_day
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to shaun white snowboarding for a while now and when the bad reviews started 
 coming in i got a little bit worried. I figured i might as well go ahead and get it anyways because 
 i wated a while for it. Like everyone says right at first the controls are strange. Although after 
 playing about 10-15 minutes i got the hang of them and i acctually really like them now. The game 
 itself its enjoyable because you can basically go anywhere right from the begining. You have to 
 collect coins for shaun which can get a bit boring, but i usually just end up near them while free 
 riding and go for them then. The acctual compititions are challanging at first but once you get 
 better and possibly get a more expencive bored they start to become pretty easy to to with a few 
 tries. The mountians are big enough and have enough paths to take that free riding should keep 
 you happy for a while. 
  
  The only bad things ive found about the game so far are that the soundtrack is alright, but there 
 really are not that many songs on it, and the avalanche feature is weak. Also accasionally you 
 fall and you think it should have looked alot worse that it did, the rider just kind of gets up 
 from everything right away, which is good most of the time though. I have not tried multiplayer 
 yet and I havn't ran into any major glitches or problems yet so i cant comment on that. 
  
  
  So if you were thinking about getting this before the bad reviews, or like snowboarding games 
 in generial you owe it to yourself to atleast rent this and see what your missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kph123
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  The first game I ever played was Shaun Palmers Pro Snowboarding on PS2. One of the characters you 
 could play as was Shaun White and he was like 15. It's pretty funny no that I think back about 
 it. Anyway from then on I would at least try every snowboarding game that came out. I became a 
 fan of the Amped series but I had been wanting something that was new, original, and more realistic. 
 Then comes this game. Now I will say when I started playing this game I thought it was going to 
 be crappy. But it turns out once you get some money for new boards, this game kicks. With new boards 
 you are sooooo much faster. At least collect the first 12 euros so when you play as Shaun White 
 you see what Im talking about. This game may a buy for some a rent to others. I say buy. If you 
 can't, wait for it go down, but you need to get this game if you into the type of game. I bought 
 this game on PS3 and if you want play with me let me know. PSN: kane419 and if you have 360 games 
 you wanna play GamerTag: kane419 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sandortom
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 8:10 am PT
Review:  Yup, the "only 4 mountain" stuff is the real weakness of the game, though the realistic riding 
 environment, sounds etc. gives us (the snowboarders) the enthusiasm for riding till the snow season 
 [eg. during summer :-) ] .
  
  Personally I really do NOT understand the verdict on "No sense of speed", cuz this speed feature 
 makes the game hard enough at many spots on the hills (especially on back-country areas) .
  On the top of this, I really laugh on "lame crashing" review comment, cuz this is a game, no blood 
 or bone break needed. Loosing scoring session and speed during time countdown races is fair enough 
 punishment... what else would be needed?
  Last but not least, it was strange to read the complaint on no real locations existance in the 
 game. These 4 mountains are great and made really interesting with giving plenty ways of havin' 
 fun, so why "real" locations would be needed?
  
  All in all as written above, really worth playing for a couple of hours weekly ;-) ! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmanus108
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 17, 2008 3:15 am PT
Review:  they gave this game a 5.0 thats just blatent lying, this game is awesome, it takes all the good 
 out of ssx and all the good out of ea skate and comes out to be a highly addictive and really fun 
 snowboarding game. you get tom music from your playstation 3 and replay, and tons of other new 
 features that are going to revolutionize snowboarding video games. this game is very fun and definetely 
 worth buying. snowballs also add on additional fun as a hit a girl with a snowball and then she 
 trhew back and we got into a snowball while goin down a double black diamond trail. and avalanches 
 are great fun as you have to tank it down the mountain to get away from  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlipJoberg
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:10 pm PT
Review:  I was so excited about this game - i shouldn't have been. It's bad.
  
  The jumping seems off, the tricks are hard to pull off - i didn't even feel 'lucky' to be able 
 to use 4 whole mountains from the off. For the first time, I actaully WANTED a linear route in 
 the game, to be told what to do and where to go. Reason for this being that I'd rather learn it 
 bit by bit. I tried to enter a few challenges but a lot seem to be multiplayer only (why are online 
 features still there when u play offline???) There seemed to be no direction. U get told "go find 
 these 'euros', 3 on each mountain and then something else might happen. There seems to be NO incentive 
 to play this game, there is no direction....
  
  Alot of work has gone into the sponsors of this game - to get the clothes and boards just right, 
 they look good. But the game is such a let down for me.
  
  After playing this, I suddenly realise that we were all spoilt by EA with the SSX series...... I 
 really hope they bring it back (as EA Big have been disbanded i think) .
  
  Worst of all, no offline 2player - idiots! I want to chill and play with mates that I ACTUALLY 
 know, not ones that chances are I'll never even meet.
  
  Thumbs down, this game is all mouth and no trousers. So dissapointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: freesbe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 11:48 am PT
Review:  I was looking at videos for months and finally it's here! Let's just say that i don't agree with 
 Gamespot review. I mean i think it's fair to say that it's a 8.5 for me. The game is not perfect 
 for sure however it's worth playing. The graphics are awesome there is no question about that. 
 I also tried to play online. Not bad at all. If you are playing with friends or with other people 
 from the internet it's very interesting. You can send a request to players so they can try to beat 
 your score or just do simple freestyle with you. Mountains are very big and i mean very big! There 
 is all kind of rails, jumps etc. Now here's the thing about the controls. You can't really change 
 the controls. Let's say you want to jump with the x button you can't do that. You have to use your 
 R2 button to jump and your left joystick to do tricks and moves. I think this is the reason why 
 every website are giving bad score to this game. Maybe the controls are not perfect and different 
 from other snowboarding games but I think after playing a few hours with the game you get more 
 comfortable with the controls. It's just an adjustment. I tried only a few challenges in the game 
 and they are a little bit hard to be honest. You can change the view of the camera while playing 
 which is a good option. You can also walk anywhere you want in the game. So overall i think this 
 is a good game and don't listen to people saying that this is a bad and poor game cause this is 
 not true at all. Worth playing so much fun online! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
