-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: ShellShock 2: Blood Trails
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/shellshock2bloodtrails/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A few good scares, along with some unsettling gore.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Dumb enemies.
 Terrible controls make accurate aiming almost impossible.
 Simplistic levels based around triggering spawn points.
 Short single-player campaign.
 No multiplayer.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 12, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4
Critic Score: 3.5, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 4.9, 56 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Rebellion
Genre: Historic Shooter
Date: Feb 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
ShellShock 2: Blood Trails spices up Vietnam with a liberal application of zombies, but the controls 
 and the generic shooter gameplay leave a lot to be desired. 

  Vietnam shooters apparently need more than just Charlie creeping through the jungle these days. 
 ShellShock 2: Blood Trails takes a sharp left turn away from its gritty, realistic 2004 predecessor, 
 ShellShock: Nam '67, and throws zombie hordes into the expected mix of AK-47s and rice paddies. 
 Combining horror with stereotypical first-person shooter combat does little to make the game stand 
 apart from the crowd, however. While there are a few thrills and chills here, this is too much 
 of a shooter-by-numbers to be engaging to anyone but the least discriminating twitch gamer, and 
 both the 360 and PS3 versions are hampered with horrible controls.  

  The plot introduces ravenous zombies into what is otherwise a standard Vietnam War movie storyline 
 about a kid experiencing the horrors of war for the first time. If you tossed Platoon and 28 Days 
 Later into a blender, this is pretty much what you would pour out. You play as Nate Walker, a raw 
 recruit who touches down in country and is immediately shipped off to a border base under siege 
 by the Vietcong (cue the usual angst about war being hell) . But then the game shifts suddenly from 
 one stereotype into another, with Walker being introduced to his zombie brother, Cal. As you might 
 expect, this isn't much of a family reunion. Just as you're coming to terms with a brain-chomping 
 bro who won't be interested in eating turkey on Thanksgiving anymore, the VC crash the party. Your 
 brother escapes, and soon you're running through the jungle to battle the zombie plague and figure 
 out what the mysterious Whiteknight is before the godless Commies do.  

           You wouldn't think that the combination of the Vietnam War and zombies could be a loser, 
 but, well, here we are.      

  Sound like a decent basis for a shooter? It is, and the Source-engine-based visuals are reasonably 
 good, though a long way from something modern like Crysis. The look of the game is pretty much 
 identical on both the 360 and the PS3, although the latter seems to be a fair bit murkier in corners. 
 While you can crank up the gamma to sort of address this issue, it never completely works on the 
 Sony console and you wind up flailing about in the dark too often. The level design is attractive 
 too, even if it seems like you're running from one Vietnam movie set to another. One moment you're 
 racing through a misty jungle, then you're dealing with booby-trapped VC tunnels, and then you're 
 in a run-down village. You get the picture.  

  At least much of the scenery is chilling. Bloody trails are everywhere, and it seems like you can't 
 walk two feet without encountering a beheaded soldier mounted on a wall, a buddy with his legs 
 blown off, or some poor guy impaled on a bunch of bamboo spikes. The audio doesn't have anywhere 
 near the same impact, though. M-16 and AK-47 fire can barely be heard at times, and there isn't 
 any thump to the rat-a-tat-tat or explosions. There might be some bugs in the sound, because some 
 effects like the swing of a machete cannot be heard at all on either console. Most of the voice 
 acting is well done, however, at least by B-movie standards. The actor playing Walker sounds a 
 lot like a young James Woods, which adds a bit of Hollywood class to the proceedings.  

  But there isn't much game here. ShellShock 2: Blood Trails is very short. The solo campaign can 
 be blasted through in four or five hours, and there are no multiplayer modes, so when you're done, 
 you're done. Replay value is nonexistent due to the simplistic nature of the level design. Actually, 
 "design" is probably too strong a word for how these levels have been slapped together. There isn't 
 any artistry here. Every level is a straight run from point A to point B, with pauses along the 
 way at choke points where you have to hunker down for a few minutes and gun down respawning enemies. 
 Basically, you run along until you meet up with a bunch of fellow Yanks, then you stand still and 
 help them shoot the horde of VC and/or zombie wannabes that start spawning from nearby rooftops, 
 jungle pathways, and the like. Enemies never give any thought to what they're doing and typically 
 just run out of their spawn locations like clowns out of a funny car.  

           Can one thousand throats really be cut in one night by a running man? Let's find out. 

  Yet even these suicidal bad guys aren't enough to compensate for the awful gamepad aiming controls 
 that afflict both the 360 and PS 3 versions of the game. Although there is an assist option to 
 help when you aim with the right analog stick, it doesn't seem to kick in until you have your sights 
 almost perfectly lined up already. It's so ineffectual that it can be hard to tell if you have 
 the assist on or off. Either way, you generally wind up wildly flailing about trying to nail enemies 
 with enough shots to put them down before they send you back home to Uncle Sam in a flag-covered 
 box. Since those aforementioned choke points are typically loaded with a dozen or more baddies 
 coming at you from all directions, expect the latter to happen a lot more than the former.  

  About the only intriguing aspect of combat is a minigame that pops up whenever you get into close 
 combat or you trigger something like a VC booby trap. If you encounter one of these situations, 
 the game surprises you with a quickie challenge where you need to react immediately to avoid certain 
 death. This feature is best realized on the PC and 360, as on those platforms you use simple keyboard 
 and gamepad button combos to stave off doom. On the PS 3, however, close-up reactions are initially 
 handled by wiggling the Sixaxis controller to trigger the motion sensor. Interesting idea, although 
 the Sixaxis doesn't seem up to the task. You have to shake the controller so hard to get a reaction 
 that you have to be careful you don't accidentally let the thing go and boomerang it across the 
 living room. Thankfully, you can turn off the motion-sensing option and go back to the simple button 
 presses exactly the same as on the 360.  

  Chances are good that you won't hate ShellShock 2: Blood Trails. But odds are also high that you 
 won't particularly enjoy it, either, due to the frustrating controls and the forgettable game design. 
 Even if you're interested in the Vietnam War and have a zombie fetish, you can likely find a better 
 use for your money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (5 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: scorpions_tiger
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 18, 2009 7:24 am PT
Review:  When the first Shellshock was released for the last generation of consoles it didn't make much 
 of a splash. Despite being based on the Vietnam War, utilizing a third-person perspective, and 
 perpetually trying to showcase the horrors of war, it never managed to set itself apart from the 
 rest of the extremely crowded war-based shooter genre. It's been over four years now and Eidos 
 has given the series another chance, this time with a fairly strange and absurd premise that desperately 
 screams out for gamers' attentions.
  
  Shellshock 2: Blood Trails screenshot
  
  Shellshock 2: Blood Trails is the answer to the question that no one was asking. What if there 
 were zombies in the Vietnam War? While this may sound like it has the potential to make for an 
 interesting game, Blood Trails definitely isn't it. This is perhaps one of the few documented cases 
 in history when the addition of zombies fails to inherently make something more interesting.
  
  You will play through the game as Nate Walker, a soldier sent into Vietnam to recover a mysterious 
 cargo known as Whiteknight and to investigate the disappearance of the last team that attempted 
 to achieve this same goal. In the game's opening cinematic players are introduced to Cal, Nate's 
 brother, who was previously a part of this now missing team. He is chained to a table, screaming, 
 and appears to have become a mindlessly violent zombie. Of course, Cal manages to break free from 
 his bondage and escape from his captors before Nate can find out what happened, leaving no alternative 
 but for players to chase after him for the remainder of the game. This terribly uninspired story 
 unfolds itself throughout the game's plethora of randomly incomprehensible cutscenes. Some of the 
 game's cinematics will make sense, picking up where the previous level left off, explaining what 
 is going on, and then leading you into the next level. However, there are others that seemingly 
 defy logic, as well as challenge the player to make up their own versions of what has transpired.
 
  
  Shellshock 2: Blood Trails screenshot
  
  One example in particular has Nate onboard a boat with four other characters, three are normal 
 human beings and one is an "infected." Inevitably, the infected character turns into a zombie and 
 attacks the other passengers, taking one of them into the water. This was how the cinema ended. 
 The next level begins with the remaining two characters running across an overhead rope bridge, 
 with you standing on the shore next to a flaming, half-sunken boat. Is this the same boat from 
 the cinema? How did it catch on fire? Why are you still standing next to its useless husk when 
 your companions have clearly gone on without you? Based on the game's clever dialogue and interesting 
 narrative (read sarcasm) , I suppose the story is probably best left to the player's imagination 
 anyway.
  
  Making matters worse, the transition between levels is not only frequently confusing and/or disorienting 
 from a story standpoint, they also serve to impede the player. When playing Shellshock 2, players 
 are able to carry up to four weapons at a time. These include a pistol, a larger gun (usually a 
 shotgun or some sort of rifle) , a melee weapon, and grenades. While there isn't a huge amount of 
 variety as far as weapons go in the game, some are definitely more useful than others. Because 
 of this, when you get a weapon that suits you and works well, you naturally want to hang onto it. 
 Unfortunately, every time a level ends your weapons are taken away from you, even if there is absolutely 
 no gap in time according to the linking cinematics. This becomes very frustrating when you go to 
 pull out your trusty machete and realize that you are holding a tiny combat knife instead.
  
  Shellshock 2: Blood Trails screenshot
  
  Weapons continue to cause problems throughout 
 the game, not just with their unexpected disappearances but with virtually every aspect of their 
 existence. Players cannot simply walk over similar guns or ammunition and hope to collect it. Instead, 
 you'll need to look directly at a weapon and press a button to pick it up. Things can get even 
 more confusing if you aren't keeping strict tabs on which guns are currently in your inventory. 
 If you pick up a dissimilar weapon, you'll instantly drop whichever one you were already carrying. 
 Since the game doesn't clearly note which guns you are carrying or what specific gun you are trying 
 to pick up, attempting to gain ammunition in the heat of battle frequently devolves into what feels 
 like a firearm-based version of hot potato played with the ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:56 am PT
Review:  Back in 2004, when everyone was already complaining about a surplus of World War II games, Vietnam 
 was the next big thing, and Shellshock: Nam '67 was Eidos' answer to Battlefield Vietnam, Vietcong, 
 Line of Sight and others. Nowadays, World War II is still big business, Vietnam has been abandoned 
 once again, and Shellshock 2: Blood Trails is the answer to a question no one asked. It's not a 
 very good answer. You play as a grunt inserted suspiciously into a unit deep in Vietnam, only to 
 discover that you're not only in the s***, you're on the hunt for your brother, who has been infected 
 with some sort of zombifying virus that turns him - and a lot of his fellow GIs - into something 
 out of 28 Days Later. Mist-soaked hills and raw jungle oppression were enough for Vietnam games 
 five years ago, but apparently not now.
  
  Which is a shame, because the Xbox 360 and PS3 would certainly do a good job of rendering Vietnam 
 in smoldering, oppressive detail given half the chance. Whether for budget reasons or not though, 
 Rebellion barely gives them a tenth of a chance. Textures are bland, geometry uncomplicated, lighting 
 sharp and unrealistic; the jungle is jagged, clip-happy and static. Character models on both sides 
 are dull, sparsely detailed and clunkily animated, and the frame-rate lurches into the teens with 
 alarming regularity. Load times are also surprisingly long, although, as you'll see, I'm not going 
 to complain about the time I got to spend not playing it. The first-person shooter combat itself, 
 which progresses from towns and ruins into jungle and cave systems, is frustrating and inexact. 
 It's difficult to aim despite a range of sensitivity sliders, reloading takes ages, and every gun, 
 grenade and ammo pack has to be manually collected by hitting a button when you run over it. There's 
 an iron sights option, but it's no help in getting a bead on the mini-waves of troops and zombies 
 being thrown at you. Throwing grenades is a complete lottery, and the explosive effect is roughly 
 akin to a firework you'd take back to the shop for a refund. And that's just on your end. The enemies 
 themselves are shockingly basic. Soldiers shamble from blatant spawn points over walls and rock 
 clusters and trip merrily into your crosshairs (assuming you can drag them round in time) without 
 the wit for self-preservation or tactics, until such time as the game decides you've killed enough 
 of them or you pass a secret line in the ground that stops them respawning. Despite their stupidity, 
 they're also difficult to spot, spawning on balconies and buried amidst the trees, taking dead 
 aim and hitting you with every bullet whatever the range, so you often have to retreat and use 
 the damage indicator to judge where they are before clumsily engaging.
  
  The zombies are a bit easier, since most of them are relatively docile, lumbering towards you and 
 then leaping into canned pounce animations until you sink half a dozen M-16 rounds into their midriff 
 or a single skull-shattering shot to the head. The main variations are zombies who leg it at you 
 instead, which exhausts your ammo reserves quicker because aiming's so fiddly. If soldiers or zombies 
 make it up close, you're sometimes called upon for a sequence of quick-time button presses to break 
 their hold and incapacitate them. You'll be indifferent to the event and the result, but that's 
 an improvement in the main.
  
  The levels offer up a few set-pieces, but most are cack-handed sieges involving turret guns, which 
 quickly run out of ammo and are no easier to aim. Stumbling through an overgrown mansion full of 
 zombies about a third of the way into the game is vaguely compelling as you ration bullets for 
 heads and then face off with a sort of super-zombie bearing a chainsaw, but for the most part the 
 impact is absorbed by the shocking visuals and scripted routines. The defence of a creaky old church 
 is typical of this: soldiers pour in through the roof and either jump down to engage or take up 
 one of a few positions in the rafters to fire at you, and keep coming and following the same pattern 
 until the game decides you've killed enough to use one of the NPC GIs to open a nearby door. Every 
 so often you're terrorised by the sight of a GI crawling halfway out of a hole, shouting at you 
 in desperation, before they're dragged fiercely away into the dark where you have to follow, but 
 like the poo-stick and swinging log traps that demand a quick stab of a button to evade, they're 
 the sort of mediocrity that you'd frown about in a better game. They practically inflate the score 
 here. There is almost nothing to commend whatsoever. The audio is dreadful - plywood door-slam 
 gunshots, cicada helicopters, dead silence just when the game needs audio, forgettable voice acting... 
 Everything is low-rent. Indeed, sometimes the game just defaults. At one point, scrambling through 
 caves on the fifth level, I walked out of an animal-mouth doorway into a room with rubble on the 
 left, another animal head in front of me, and a blocked-off stone staircase to my right. Ten minutes 
 later I walked into the exact same area and had to double-check to make sure I hadn't been spun 
 round and gone back to the previous room. I hadn't. In between, I'd been assailed by the noise 
 of zombies, only to realise I was safe: they were all stuck in walking animations grinding against 
 the side of the hill I was standing on, so I picked them off one by one.
  
  With no multiplayer, and only ten levels, the game isn't even very long, but I still couldn't bring 
 myself to finish it. It's no surprise that Eidos has been very quiet about it in the run-up to 
 its launch today: had it been released on PS2, Shellshock 2 would have struggled to live up to 
 the original's 6/10 legacy. Up against World at War, Killzone 2 and Halo 3, it's a complete joke. 
 The worst FPS I've played since Turning Point: Fall of Liberty.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:50 am PT
Review:  When I saw there was going to be a vietnam zombie-horror a few months ago I was really looking 
 forward to playing it. Unfortunately, waves of zombies and vietnams which nearly look the same 
 in each level doesn't provide much enjoyment and can prove frustrating and rushed gameplay. But 
 before you know it the game comes to an end in about 5 hours. Theres nothing to look for to keep 
 you interested either, no intel or secret items. The story doesn't interest you either from the 
 moment it kicks off, until the moment it ends. (basically an afternoon of your life ruined!)
  However at the beginning of the game it does seem promising. There isn't many enemies and the gory 
 gunfights prove good fun.
  
  Story- 2/5
  Characters- 1/5
  Gameplay- 3/5
  Controls- 2/5
  Graphics- 2/5
  Sound- 3/5
  Length- 1/5
  Replayability- 1/5
  
  Good Points: 
 satisfying gory gameplay, zombies in vietnam!
  
  Bad Points: Poor graphics, confined level design, look-a-like enemies, too short, Not an interesting 
 story, not much choice of weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowkiller11
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 14, 2009 12:17 pm PT
Review:  now this game is one of those under-hyped games no one really got excited. therefore i budget of 
 this game must of been small because of it. it had potential of being great. but it changed because 
 some levels are great then some are utter dated and last gen. however its still very atmospheric 
 even more when you turn off the crosshair.
  
  gameplay: mostly like any first person shooter but with brutal twists. it has the generic quick 
 time events well the ps3 version has motion controls and there functional nothing wrong with it. 
 the shooting is solid however some weapons feel samey and shotgun is underpowered but when facing 
 infected it build tension. some levels can be very enjoyable.
  
  graphics: are a true mix bag, the more outside wide open levels you can see bad textures by distance 
 its obvious that the engine has some flaws to it. close up on walls, grounds etc has nice textures 
 even more in the dark and see light reflecting of walls. the explosions are somewhat dissapointing. 
 very last gen. one set piece features a helicopter getting blown up. it completely killed it and 
 looked last gen. the character models more of the infected are nicely detailed. but the gore is 
 sick if you look into a headshot or disembered body.
  
  sound: not much to say, the soldiers speak there original language which is nice. the infected 
 screams and sound effects are nice, i jumped for the first time in a game because of it. however 
 some weapons feel underpowered.
  
  longevity: the main downfall, only 10 stages and not very long, its about 6 hours depending on 
 the gamer. also not much replay value, there are 3 difficulties which is nice but i want to be 
 rewarded, no trophies aswell sadly as this game passed classification before 09. and no extras.
 
  
  overall: its not amazing its got some flaws but enjoyable and very atmospheric, the story is also 
 interesting. this game is very brutal and if you want a gory somewhat budget game then this might 
 appeal to you. its not cod standards (though i think cod is over-rated) mainly if you get passed 
 presentation issues you should enjoy it. its not for the young though lots of profanity, sick gore 
 scenes and some disturbing scenes (like people suffering from shellshock so gets his throat slit 
 to keep quiet) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3-dee
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 14, 2009 10:44 am PT
Review:  Well I have just played throught the game.
  The gameplay is pretty good ... It is quite a generic First Person Shooter, and has a definate 
 run and gun style similar to the Call of Duty games that feel quite irratic and fast paced..
  
  To break the whole FPS style gameplay they have added several nice, short cutscenes and split 
 second events throughout the game, as well as a wrestling mechanic that has an unarmed enemy grappling 
 with you and depending on what buttons you press you either escape or die.
  The level design seems to be ok, but it is quite easy to get lost.
  
  The levels are quite 
 nice to look at although the art is a little incoherent but very fitting of where it is supposed 
 to be set. The big let down though is the seriously bad lighting.
  The characters look good especially the zombie's. 
  
  Overall the graphics appear to be very 
 blurry especially for the new HD era, and are not up to standard with other games in this genre. 
 It could be said that because of the terriblly dull light, that it doesnt look that much better 
 than the old xbox / playstation 2 graphics.
  
  The sound in the game is ok, and seems to fit quite well.
  
  The game isnt bad, but isnt really 
 much different to what we have seen over the past years.
  It does give you an easy play through though... should take about 5 hrs and has XB Achievements 
 (150 on completion)
  
  Gameplay: 6
  Levels: 6
  Characters: 8
  Sound: 7
  Innovation: 2
  Overall: 6 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
