-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/strategy/sidmeierscivilizationrevolution/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Engrossing strategic depth.
 Many ways to claim victory.
 Fantastic visual presentation.
 Wealth of interesting historical knowledge.
 Meets high standard of the Civilization series.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Multiplayer moves at a slow pace.
 Diplomacy is a bit limited.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.5, 36 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 1,144 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Firaxis Games
Genre: Historic Turn-Based...
Date: Jul 8, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Civilization Revolution is an excellent, streamlined console version of the popular PC strategy 
 series. 

  Ever since its inception in the early 1990s, Sid Meier's critically acclaimed Civilization series 
 has challenged players to "build an empire to stand the test of time." Civilization Revolution 
 is the newest scion of the series, and like its predecessors, it's a turn-based strategy game in 
 which you take charge of a notable historical civilization and lead them from humble beginnings 
 to world domination. Faced with the great challenge of preserving the strategic breadth of the 
 series while streamlining the experience for consoles, developer Firaxis games has succeeded admirably. 
 The result is a distilled version of Civilization that will please series veterans and newcomers 
 alike.  

            As your city grows, you'll see new buildings and more advanced architecture.      

 
  Before the game begins, you must make an important choice: Which of the 16 civilizations will 
 you command? Each has a starting bonus and four era bonuses that you'll gain as you progress through 
 the ages, bonuses that will aid you in some way on your path to victory. There are four types of 
 victory in Civilization Revolution: cultural, economic, technology, and domination. Each has particular 
 victory conditions, and civilization-specific bonuses are a good way to start down the road toward 
 meeting those conditions. Those seeking a cultural victory will appreciate that the Egyptians start 
 with an ancient wonder, whereas military-minded players might choose the Germans and their veteran 
 warriors. Trying the different civilizations on for size is great fun, as you adapt your unique 
 strengths to grow your empire and deal with your opponents.  

  Once you've chosen your civilization, the game begins in earnest. As you set down your first city, 
 you'll see icons on the surrounding squares indicating how much food, production, or trade each 
 produces. Food grows your population, production builds units and buildings, and trade furthers 
 scientific research or fills your coffers with gold. Being aware of these resources is the key 
 to your civilization's prosperity. As your city grows larger and encompasses more squares, you'll 
 have the option of telling your workers to prioritize one resource over the others, or to work 
 certain squares instead of others. Unlike in previous Civilization games, individual squares cannot 
 be improved, and workers now exist only within the confines of the city menu screen. Despite the 
 worker's reduced role, the bulk of its strategic relevance has been preserved. Now certain buildings 
 and technologies will increase your resource yield, so the challenge lies in choosing what to research 
 and what to build to optimize your city's production. This interweaving of strategic considerations 
 is engrossing and spurs you to constantly refine the myriad facets of your grand plan.  

  With your first city up and running, you begin to go about the business of expanding your realm. 
 You build warriors to defend your city and explore the surrounding area. Barbarians will threaten 
 you early on, and destroying them will grant you gold, or perhaps a bonus unit. There are also 
 friendly villages that will offer similar bonuses, and sometimes even grant you a new technology. 
 Discovering impressive natural wonders, such as a great forest or a vast desert, will also garner 
 you a gold bonus and the gratifying right to stamp a name on it that will last throughout history. 
 There are also a few ancient artifacts, such as the Lost City of Atlantis, that grant substantial 
 boons to the civilization that discovers them. Although it's already a thrill to explore uncharted 
 lands, these bonus incentives add more urgency to your wanderings and encourage you to keep up 
 a brisk pace.  

  As you explore, create units, and settle new cities, you'll soon discover that you're not alone. 
 Leaders of other civilizations will contact you with offers of peace, but don't expect these truces 
 to last. Depending on your difficulty level, you may have a few leaders asking to trade techs, 
 or they all may try to bully you out of hearth and home. You can do some bullying of your own from 
 the diplomacy panel, as well as make peace, trade techs, or even pay a leader to wage war on another 
 civilization. However, long-term trade agreements are gone, and previously marketable resources 
 like wine, iron, and silk now merely provide resource bonuses to nearby cities. Degrees of peace, 
 like non-agression pacts and open borders, are also gone, the latter of which is particularly missed 
 during online games, when passing through an ally's territory will cause a declaration of war. 
 The controls for navigating diplomacy are easy, but it does feel a bit limited.  

            Tensions begin to run high as civilizations compete for territory.      

  If you 
 refuse another civilization's demands for tribute, or want to pursue a domination victory, you'll 
 declare war on your enemies and march your legions off to battle. Every combat unit has a separate 
 attack and defense rating, and it's important to play to their strengths. For example, in the early 
 going, archers are twice as powerful on defense than offense, so leaving them to defend your cities 
 while your more powerful attackers advance to the front may be a good move. Positioning yourself 
 advantageously is rewarding, not only because of terrain bonuses, but also because of the satisfaction 
 you get from winning a carefully executed encounter. Cutting through your opponent's forces and 
 taking their cities is immensely gratifying, though large invasion forces can get cumbersome since 
 you can no longer combine diverse units into a manageable stack.     

  Actual combat is merely a matter of sending your unit onto an enemy unit's square and seeing how 
 things play out. Victorious units will gain experience and can earn special abilities, such as 
 improved city defense. Combat has been streamlined, too, and the number of units available throughout 
 the ages has been pared down. Ships can no longer bombard land squares, but positioning them on 
 the coast adjacent to your warring armies will give your land troops a boost in combat. Without 
 square improvements to destroy, siege warfare is limited to parking your forces on squares to prevent 
 a city from working them. Furthermore, even the smallest ship can transport a huge number of units, 
 so sending armies by sea is feasible in any age. Thankfully, these changes don't feel like omissions 
 because the strategies that the lost elements supported are still present and can make or break 
 your martial campaigns.  

            Potent combat bonuses can turn apparent mismatches battles into fair fights.      

 
  There's a lot of information to take into account when playing Civilization Revolution, and fortunately 
 there are a number of built-in tools to help you. You have a cadre of advisors who pop up to consult 
 you in the city and tech screens, and they, like the leaders of other civilizations, are large, 
 animated characters who react to your decisions and push each other out of the way amusingly as 
 you switch your focus. They do make some repetitive noises and their gibberish speak can get annoying, 
 but they are quite helpful in the early going and once you're in the rhythm of the game, you'll 
 likely tune them out. Other audio effects and background music are more appropriate, and the dramatic 
 flourishes of victory or wonder creation are quite invigorating.  

  One of the highlights of the game is the robust civilopedia, which is accessible from almost any 
 screen with the press of a button. All of the pertinent game information is here, as well as a 
 wealth of multimedia knowledge for those curious to know the biographies of the great people who 
 appear in their cities, or to see a video clip of a galley at sea. It's a fantastic addition that 
 you'll find yourself consulting often as you refine your game strategy. Though it does take a few 
 seconds to load, it's well worth it to make sure that you choose the right wonder to build or tech 
 to research.  

  Tying it all together is the vivid, clean presentation and simple control scheme. You can scroll 
 around the map with either analog stick, though the right one is required to issue movement commands. 
 Cycling through units with the directional pad is a breeze. The left shoulder button zooms out, 
 though not as far as you might like, and the right shoulder button gives you a quick look at your 
 tech, culture, and treasury growth. City and diplomacy menus are a mere click away. This accessibility 
 is complemented by the vibrant unit designs and animations, as well as the eye-catching city representations. 
 The ocean looks lovely as waves lap at the shore and fish frolic in the clear water, and mountains, 
 forests, and rivers are equally beautiful. Scroll around a busy map and you'll experience some 
 choppiness, but not so much that it's detrimental to the gameplay.  

  Single-player games are rich and varied, but you can mix things up further by playing the included 
 scenarios or taking on the Game of the Week and seeing how you rank against other Civ players. 
 You can also test your skills head-to-head online. Each match has five civilizations but a max 
 of four human players. You can face off one-on-one, join up with a teammate against human or AI 
 players, or cut loose in a free-for-all. A headset lets you conspire with your fellow players, 
 but be careful to use the private chat feature lest you alert your enemies to your plan. Be sure 
 to block out a few hours for these matches, which can sometimes last quite a while. You can limit 
 the turn time to speed things up, but with four human players and one AI civilization, there's 
 a lot to do. Online matches do have a strange pace to them that's not quite a sequential flow, 
 and they move more slowly than solo games. Nevertheless, if you've got the patience, there's nothing 
 quite like matching wits with another human player.  

            Lopsided, anachronistic battles will frequently happen in the modern era.      

  
 Played against human or AI opponents, Civilization Revolution is an excellent game that will let 
 you plumb different strategic depths each time you play. It's incredibly easy to get engrossed 
 in the rhythm of expansion and evolution, and you can happily lose hours and hours at a time. Sid 
 Meier and Firaxis Games have done a fantastic job of streamlining many of the key game mechanics, 
 and they've cut out some of the micromanagement without gutting the strategic options. If you enjoyed 
 Civilization on the PC and are worried that this version might feel stripped down, fear not. Although 
 it does seem simpler at first, you'll soon realize that it's the same signature gameplay you know 
 and love. If you haven't played a Civilization game before, you should get your hands on this worthy 
 new entry in the Civilization canon.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (72 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Jenova-Life
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 8:57 am PT
Review:  When first heard about the game I was excited about the game and checked a lot about it online. 
 When I noticed that it was a complete remake of the graphics it shot me away from even renting 
 it. After a while I decided to pick it up and try it anyways and from there on out I havent been 
 able to put it down. 
  If you can get past the cartoony graphics this game is a absolute for any fan of Civilization. 
 The game play is well done. Simple build and take over as well as developing through the ages. 
 Where the game really shines is the difficulty levels and the diffrence in game depending on what 
 civilazation you decide to be. The problem with the difficulty though is when you decide to move 
 up in the era's you become public enemy number one. Even though another computer player is making 
 his move towards victory it seems to keep focus on you and make sure you are not the one to win 
 the game. 
  Another aspect of the game is that there is talking in the game but the problem is, is that it 
 is in Sims laungauge. The multiplayer is were it really shines. Several diffrent modes to play 
 on in multiplayer and is very exciting to play another human player not being able to know what 
 they plan on doing whereas a computer you and figure ouy what their main motive is. Overall the 
 game does well and is really enjoyable as long as you can get by the Cartoony graphics and the 
 Sims talking. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is the latest installment in Sid Meier's Civilization series. I only started 
 the Civ series on PC last year with Civ 4. I'm sure that many longtime PC users won't love this 
 version, but for someone who plays games on consoles 95% of the time like me it's just fine. Civ 
 Rev starts you out as one of many different leaders and countries/groups, like Lincoln from the 
 US, Ceasar from Rome, Alexander from Greece and so on. Each leader/country has different strengths, 
 be it Roman's half priced roads, Spain's early knowledge of navigation, or England's naval defense 
 bonus. As you get further along in the game you'll learn which few countries you like best and 
 plan ahead with the knowledge you'll have X perk coming up when the game switches "ages". Gameplay 
 is fun and a breeze to pick up. You'll play with anywhere from 4 to 6 CPU controlled countries, 
 and can win in one of four ways: Domination, Cultural, Economic or Space Flight. The game is available 
 for demo on the PS3 or X360. I bought it back in July and still play at least once or twice a week, 
 there are 5 difficulty settings, so once it starts becoming too easy turn it up a notch, plus many 
 different scenarios. The only drawback of this game is it only supports one player at a time on 
 your machine, sure online is great, but for a 2-4 hour strategy game it would be fun to play with 
 someone at home. This is a glaring defect in my mind, one I hope they fix before making another, 
 other than that it's a must have for anyone that's a fan of the Civ series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigybhoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is a game about owning your own country, you can make your own lands if 
 you use the right people, make friends or enemies with other world leaders, which will lead to 
 war, trademanship, gifts, conquer and all the other economics of war and alliance.
  
  You can start a situation game, which will determine your beginning stats, or you could just start 
 a new game, no situations, fresh stats and you have the choice of making friends or enemies with 
 other world leaders.
  
  When you either discover a new area, forest etc... you name it to your liking, it also gives you 
 three names to choose from instead.
  
  That is why Civilization is a good, scratch that, a GREAT game. If you enjoy games in which you 
 control the future for a whole country, whether it be death, slavery, defeat or victory and luxury 
 lives this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orand
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 10, 2009 5:45 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier should have stuck to his strong points on this one. All previous fans of the Civilization 
 series will be VERY disappointed in this cobbled version of the game. There is absolutely NO substance 
 whatsoever to this game. I've been playing Civilization since the very first game and I have to 
 say every one of the others in the series is better than this one. If he truly said that this was 
 the game he had always wanted to make, I have to say maybe it's time to retire from the gaming 
 industry all together. Truth be known I have always been a fan of his until this JOKE was released. 
 I feel like I was mislead and ripped off... Definately RENT before you buy. Maybe this was just 
 a failed attempt to reach a different audience... or maybe there just wasnt enough room to put 
 everything into it that should have stayed from the previous versions... Im willing to give him 
 the benifit of the doubt and say that this game was meant for young children and not for his longtime 
 fans. C'mon Sid get it together... Make a game with the same substance as Civ IV with the playablility 
 and addictive nature of Civ III. Throw in some scenarios that gamers would actually enjoy playing 
 i. e: WWII and WWI scenarios. Add some more Civilizations instead of the FOUR that you can play 
 against in revolution for any given single player game, and you might just have her whipped. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marksburg
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 8, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  Funny, easy, simple version of Civilization. Game is easy to get a hang of. Simpler version over 
 PC version I have played, that fact does NOT take away from game. Great graphics, love the small 
 battles between armies. Good amount of units and city buildings to select from. Simple easy to 
 understand descriptions, nice Civilpedia to help guide your way thru the game. 
  
  Loads of fun, huge replay value IMO. Fun on-line play with buddies, plus added content that can 
 be downloaded. Would like to see more nations for download, would be a nice addition to that game. 
 Would add a bit more flavor to the replay value. 
  
  It does keep me coming back for more. Two games are really never the same with different goals 
 to achieve to beat the game. Would highly recommend to people who enjoy strategy games and who 
 are fans of the Civilization games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jameschok
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  First off, let me say that I found it difficult to get into previous Civilization games. Therefore, 
 my review speaks to the people who have had a similar lack of interest in those games. I'm not 
 sure how a person who loved the old Civilization games would rate this.
  
  I found this version of Civilization to be outstanding. Out of all the PS3 games I have (including 
 MGS4) , this is the one I play the most. The game is very easy to get into and the various ways 
 in which you can win (e. g., economic, cultural, domination, technology) add greatly to the replay 
 value. The game can be played from start to finish in about 5-6 hours, and it is not uncommon to 
 find yourself playing "just a little longer" to see what will happen next. Unlike the old Civ games, 
 there is no need to tinker with tedious details to be effective. Anyone can pick this game up and 
 become absorbed in the game on their first try.
  
  The game has such a fun way of keeping the action exciting while incorporating strategy. Your emotions 
 will go up and down as you carefully select what you are going to work on next, discover rare artifacts 
 as you explore the sea and remote islands, and anticipate the next battle as enemies begin to encroach 
 on your land. It is also very fun to develop new technologies, such as airplanes, that then free 
 you up to attack in versatile ways. Playing with different countries makes different types of planes, 
 tanks, soldiers, etc. available which also adds to replay value, and there are add-on packs you 
 can buy as well.
  
  
  My only complaint about the game is that after a certain amount of moves, it ends the game (I don't 
 know how this is determined, but it seems to happen after about 6 hours) . Victory at that point 
 is determined by who has dominated (conquered) the most, which is very frustrating if you had been 
 peaceful the whole time while trying to win a different way. Also, once you win by achieving a 
 certain milestone (e. g., launching a space station) the game ends. It would have been nice to be 
 able to keep playing to try to develop an even better, more expansive society.
  
  While I have had a great time playing with different countries on different difficulty levels, 
 I would imagine this game would be even more enticing if you played online. Bumping into a friend 
 while exploring, and then deciding if you will team up on a common enemy or fight each other sounds 
 like a lot of fun.
  
  In sum, this game is highly enjoyable with tremendous replay value. The graphics are great and 
 the action is exciting. If you have any doubts, download the demo - it allows for a couple of hours 
 of play before it wraps up. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonderac
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 20, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  Wow! Strategy city, no pun intended, is definitely the name of this game. The different "ranks" 
 that you can play really do offer some challenges, although on King level getting taken out in 
 2 turns sort of makes one jaw drop. So many races to choose from, even thou you do have to have 
 a someone fair understanding of each so you can know your opponents to succeed. So many options, 
 so many styles possible, while I choose to play one way and my partner another, we can both succeed 
 or fail, the same, sometimes it's just a 50/50 chance. Definitely a game for the long haul, too 
 many possibilities to just run through one race and end it there. The expansions cost a little 
 much but do offer even more challenges, some very unexpected, to the overall game playing experience. 
 Get it, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirJohnFalstaff
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 14, 2008 1:45 pm PT
Review:  What i miss in this game mostly, is the lack of customization (# of opponents, world size/climate/age, 
 type of landmass, level of barbarian activities) and the lack of diplomatic options with your opponents 
 (you can't threaten them as much as they do to you)
  
  Also: most Wonders are useless since they are obsolete very soon, I think time passes too quickly, 
 and ages arrive too soon.
  
  It's clearly a condensed and simpler version of the game.
  
  I haven't tried the multiplayers possibilities yet.
  
  This said, the game look superb. 
 The animation, the characters, the logistiic of it are really well done.
  
  I guess it wouldn't be so bad if the opponents didn't start as close to your civilization as they 
 do here, which makes the game almost impossible to play without strong military conquest. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyclonebw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 1, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  I enjoy this game a lot and highly recommend anybody thinking about buying it. I own several ps3 
 games and this is my favorite. Here are some positive points:
  
  - The graphics are good, colorful and sharp.
  
  - The the controls are good but could be better.
 
  
  - Game play is excellent and addicting but could be better on the count of more civilizations to 
 encounter.
  
  - There are many features in this game that makes you want to keep playing it over and over.
 
  
  - Multiplayer is no different then the play now section except your obviously playing with other 
 players.
  
  
  It was out standing to me that a strategy game like this would be placed on a system platform, 
 as soon as it got out i had to get it. Without further to do I say this is a awesome strategy game 
 finally placed on a game counsel. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufflezoom
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 10, 2008 12:16 pm PT
Review:  Throught the ages, Civilazation has gained huge popularity with critics and gamers worldwide. This 
 time though the guys at Firaxis made a risky decision and made a civ RTS for consoles. Did it work? 
 Shufflezoom reviews will find out!
  
  Story 8.5/10
  The story in revolution is the same as all the other civ games . You choose to be one of the world's 
 greatest leaders and lead your civilization to victory in war, economy, and technology . Along the 
 way you will meet other great leaders who will help and also try to stop you .It's a fun storyline, but 
 the bad thing is there really is no plot and the huge power of cause and consenquence in other 
 civ games seems missing here.
  
  Gameplay 9.5/10
  If you are an RTS fanatic you probably will know civ has a very complicated gameplay experience 
 but thankfully revlution is so much easier for noobs and the great thing about this is that the 
 game barely takes over control over your game. So it's the fun of civ added with a bit of simplicity. Also 
 once again, like other civ games revolution is very deep and can go on for hours. But seriously 
 revolution is really long it takes a long time to get a victory.
  
  Graphics 9/10
  The graphics in revolution are fantastic. Obviously the best looking game in the civ series. Towns 
 looks detailed so does water. In revolution it is definetly a wonderful land to conquer.
  
  Overall 9/10
  Console RTS ,they said it couldn't be done. It just was. Bravo Sid Meier always 
 behind your projects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalgear-solid
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  I must begin by saying that I'm pretty much new to the series. And I never thought I'd grow so 
 in love with it.
  
  The game eases you in with a tutorial game on 'chieftain' difficulty and this is great for working 
 out how to play and how the game works. It gives a detailed explanation of what you should do and 
 is very useful. It might just get a little annoying after a while however, with advisers getting 
 in your way every few minutes.
  
  To those who have played the Civilization series on the PC, this game is just as in-depth as its 
 PC counterparts and is just as addictive. The only thing that is missing it having to build workers, 
 which in many ways is good. You can still micromanage cities if you like, like having workers concentrate 
 on science output instead of production output, for example.
  
  The battle animations and visuals are extremely smooth, colourful, ascetically pleasing and just 
 as detailed as in Civilization IV. The maps are very nice and big but they are mostly water, with 
 not as much land as in the PC games. This is not a bad thing as cities borders don't expand anywhere 
 near as much as before, even though your cities do improve at a similar, if not even faster pace.
 
  
  A game will take you several hours but is not as drawn out as Civilization IV, with technologies 
 hardly taking any more than 10 turns. Another advantage is that if there is nothing to do, like 
 you have something that will take 9 turns to build, it will do those turns straight away: no waiting 
 around in this game.
  
  The Great People and Wonder are improved in that they more greatly effect your game, and you can 
 clearly see the benefits of them.
  
  The only slightly disappointing thing about this game is that the multiplayer might take forever. 
 Not because it's slow, it's just that your opponents seem to take forever to finish their turn. 
 Sometimes I was waiting a few minutes, which can get somewhat annoying after a while.
  
  All in all this is a brilliant and well thought-out game which works well on the console platform, 
 keeping the depth and addictiveness of it's predecessors. I would recommend this game to everyone, 
 even the most hardcore PC strategy game fan that would refuse to play a strategy game on console 
 because they think it would be terrible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 9:48 pm PT
Review:  OK I'll admit it I'm biased. I have been a massive fan of civilization since number 2. This will 
 in fact read more like a blog than a review, I have blogged about this thing before.
  Fist of all this is a good game the graphics are clean and sharp and it is a little too cartoony 
 for my personal liking but that is the style it is trying to pull off and it does it well.
  The gameplay is where it starts to fall down. This is essentially Civilization : lite and it will 
 leave civ fans with a bitter taste in the end.
  For these reasons:
  1) Appealing to the more casual and limitations of the consoles have stripped back any depth
 
  2) AI opponents are not numerous enough 4 opponents is not enough, fair enough they wanted to keep 
 it quick but that's not why civ fans play
  3) Controls are passable but once again it has been done much better with a keyboard and mouse
 
  This will be the only time I purchase a Turn based strategy game like civilization on a console 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:09 pm PT
Review:  
  While I have no prior first-hand experience with Sid Meier's Civilization series, I feel confident 
 in saying that Civilization Revolution is a game not intended for established Civilization fans. 
 Developed specifically for consoles, Revolution streamlines much of the intricacies of Sid Meier's 
 beloved PC turn-based strategy series to make for a much more accessible experience. It's still 
 a surprisingly deep turn-based strategy game, and a pretty addictive one at that. Some of the simplifications 
 feel a little arbitrary, and despite being crafted for the couch, the graphics can chug, and the 
 control scheme occasionally sags under the weight of the strategy. Still, it's very easy to get 
 sucked into that "one more turn" mindset that the series is known for cultivating. 
  Unlike most strategy games, which tend to focus entirely on military action, there are four different 
 ways to win a game of Civ Rev. You can win by military might, scientific supremacy, economic prowess, 
 or cultural superiority. While these roads to victory require distinctly different priorities, 
 the technological paths for all four are intertwined. If you focus entirely on one discipline, 
 your civilization simply won't be able to keep up with the competition. It makes for a peculiar 
 balancing act that encourages obsession over the minute details of how your civilization focuses 
 its energies.
  Civilization has long stood as one of those glimmering examples of a PC game that simply couldn't 
 be done with a gamepad. Revolution gets the job done fairly well, though I definitely noticed certain 
 limitations, particularly later in the game, when my empire was spread to the four corners and 
 I was fighting battles on multiple fronts. The interface simply stops scaling at a certain point, 
 and it can be easy to lose track of what's happening where. The time spent calculating your opponents' 
 moves in between your turns can get inordinately long here as well. The visuals in both the PlayStation 
 3 and Xbox 360 versions can get a little choppy at times, though the 360 version in particular 
 can have a hard time simply filling in the landscape in a timely fashion as you scroll around the 
 globe.
  While Sid Meier has been quoted as saying that this is the Civilization game he always wanted to 
 make, Revolution's got plenty of shortcomings, and the scope of its vision can sometimes outstrip 
 its mechanics. That said, this is a really satisfying strategy game, and though it might be old 
 hat for PC players, there are few experiences quite like it on consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jadeweapon
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 3, 2008 8:00 am PT
Review:  A very good game that does a good job of introducing newcomers to CIV without scaring them away..... 
 unless they turn it on hard mode and get immolated .
  
  The Xbox 360 version suffers from lag in the stage of the game where you can make about 3 units 
 per turn in one city. 
  
  Games still take a long time and a lot of commitment. I thought the Multiplayer was a good idea, 
 but it's not fast paced enough really, and its a little annoying when the player disconnects.
 
  
  If you are an achievement lover by the way, this game will take a long... long time. Thats right, 
 they are those annoying landmark achievements: complete the game in easy/medium/hard/very with 
 (every single leader) .
  
  There are a few nice awards, like the one where you have to win with only one city.... but dont 
 get this game for the achievement points, its puts you in a bad mood when you find that the last 
 4 hours of your commitment has resulted in a situation of your inevitable demise. I'M LOOKING AT 
 YOU BIZMARK.
  
  Cool game. If you have a PC, get the real versions ^_^.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dua_tr
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  Having played the Age of The Empires (AOE) series and never this series, it seems it is more like 
 a simplified version of the AOE series. But don't get me wrong is not less difficult or less entertaining, 
 just not as elaborate and detailed as the AOE series. I'm not too crazy with the art either, I 
 wish the units and cities were a bit more realistic and it is quite annoying the mumbling sounds 
 the in game characters do when talking to you. I would just rather have the text without any sounds. 
 
  
  On the up side, the controls are excellent and all the little upgrades your military units earn 
 by fighting or through the Great people. The four different ways to win gives the game more challenges 
 and replay value. Also, the modern military units are great and the graphics are good too. The 
 sound could be tedious at times but you can lower the music volume and that solves it. Other interesting 
 thing this game has is the history characters or Great people that you can use for your civilization 
 growth.
  
  I haven't got a chance to play on-line, but I bet is a lot of fun. Overall I definitely recommend 
 this game and you should not be disappointed! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camboman5
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 2:58 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game for a couple of days anticipating my time to be filled with excitement. However, 
 after beating the game in 2 hours, I was left to attempt it using different scenarios of my own, 
 picking different leaders and at different skills levels.
  
  Too say the least, I was hoping that the length of the game, or the timeline, would have been endless, 
 or possibly a bit more realistic. I find it hard to believe that in 2049 a Warrior unit still exists 
 given the type of technologies being discovered in the game, nuclear power, the internet, etc.
 
  
  I was impressed by the options available, but game-play is very limiting. Sea units are unable 
 to war against land units, and the map is not as expansive as I'd hoped.
  
  Civ Revo was very disappointing and lacked the content that it seemed to promise. I am glad that 
 I did not fork over the $60 to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I-am-the-Panda
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  Civ is now on console and every self respecting game owner has no excuse not to get it. The gameplay 
 is a streamlined, or some would say 'dumd-downed' version of civ 4. To start, you don't need iron 
 and horses to build knights. All resources are usable once the tech is researched and you have 
 enough pop. to stretch out there.
  
  The AI will react the same way to everything depending on the difficulty. On cheiftan, they only 
 go to war if you have any of the victory conditions met. A little bit more aggresive on Warlord 
 and aggresive on king. I didnt go further sadly. There aren't ceasefire or open border treatie 
 shere, just at war, peace or at peace for x amount of turns.
  
  The Mutliplayer is too buggy to get into. Everyone has one minute to do thier turn, all at the 
 same time. There are variations like 2 on 2, or free for all. Scenarios aren't on MP sadly.
  
  At the end of the day, this can be stretched out to fill alot of evenings but is too broken 
 in places too enjoy for months on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost1294
Rating: 4
Date: Sep 15, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  As far as I can tell this is a remake of the one released waaayyy back for the SNES. For you younger 
 ones thats the Super Nintendo Entertainment system. You'd be amazed as to how many people dont 
 know what that is.
  
  Anyways back on topic.
  
  Overall is is a cute game though abit of a low replay value. Sure you can choose from alot of factinos 
 but thing is only 5 can be on the board at once. Unlike the SNES one where you have the choice 
 of having a few to all of the factions at once. That is what I was looking foreward too and was 
 a big let down for me.
  
  The tech tree is essentially the same though with a few additions concerning wonders. I also enjoy 
 the idea of 'Great People.' Another facet I got a giggle out of is seeing a Great General on a 
 horse leading a tank army. WFT O_O 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbmsd
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  I think people that don't need instant action will enjoy this game. You do have to think a little. 
 I don't like that you have move limits that end the game. Right when you start to get a the fun 
 tech stuff your game ends. Also there are several different ways civs. can win withour even fighting. 
 But give it 9. You change different civs. to make the game always different. Lincoln is a good 
 one to play. You actually learn how to build and use a nuclear missile. You can emlinate a entire 
 city. That was fun. But it takes awhile to get there and usually the games end by then because 
 move limits. Also the could have a done a better job on having your advisors be understandble. 
 They could have really improve the game there. And maybe more ships and types of planes. I really 
 just wish you could finish the game without move limits. You sometimes come so close to finishing 
 off someone and then they when by some technicality. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sensfanVone
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 11:47 am PT
Review:  I downloaded the demo and you know sometimes you get a demo of a game and you just have to get 
 it, I mean you get so far and it just ends leaving you wanting more.
  
  Well this was one of them, I played the demo and then it ended and I just stared at the screen 
 wondering why it had to end, so later that night (labor day : () I went on a mad search around town 
 for this game, I found it put it in and played a full scenario, I admit I was slightly disappointed 
 at first but then I realized while at work the next day that I wanted to play it again, now it's 
 addictive and I love playing it.
  
  So don't let it scare you away after the first play, it sticks with you.
  
  As far as game 
 play is concerned it runs quite well, only lags once in a blue moon on my PS3, it's a game I recommend 
 to people who like to take there time and think about the actions they are making and the consequences 
 on the tiny continents you are trying to conquer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  Greetings fellow players. Tonight, I am going to share with you my opinion about Sid Meier's Civilization 
 Revolution.
  
  Try to think back to the Super Nintendo days. Remember how Civilization II was released for SNES? 
 Well, I was disappointed with that remake for the console but was taken back in excitement with 
 the PC version. The truth is Civilization has struggled on consoles. That is until recently.
  
  In Sid Meier's: Civilization, you can play 1 of 16 nations. As leader it is up to you to insure 
 the survival of your nation during the hardships and discoveries you go through. Now, at first, 
 I was reluctant to get this game since my bad experience with the SNES version of Sid Meier's Civilization 
 II. However, Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution game reanimated my enthusiasm.
  
  As for the technical aspect of this game... I can say that this game's graphics engine, music and 
 game mechanics were something to be proud of. The graphics were crisp and the controls easy. I 
 also appreciated the addition of a "retreat" feature you can use if the battle gets too hot. I 
 also like the pace at which this game plays. The only thing I found that caused me to score it 
 less than I wanted to was that when you have a lot of activity happening at once on the same screen, 
 the picture gets shaky and the pace stutters just a bit. Otherwise, this game is well worth the 
 money for a next gen game. Enjoy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Without question, Civilization Revolution is a game that can draw you in and keep you hooked for 
 hours and hours at a time. With a clever and streamlined game mechanic, the Civilization that I 
 remember playing laboriously on my old PC back in the day is now a truly next-generation game with 
 engaging turn-based action and vibrant, entertaining visual design.
  
  At first I thought that the complexity of a Civilization game wouldn't be able to be reproduced 
 without having access to all the assignable hotkeys and whatnot like on the PC. I thought making 
 it console-compatible would take something essential out of the gameplay. But I was totally wrong. 
 Firaxis managed to make this a totally solid entry in the Sid Meier oeuvre. The gameplay is intelligent 
 but intuitive, with fun animations and interesting characters. The control set is simple but complete, 
 allowing you to zoom into a city to micro-manage its production, but also to zoom out and see your 
 empire-at-large.
  
  The only real downside to Civilization Revolution is the limited diplomatic choices you have. I 
 remember the older Civ games had a lot more variety to diplomatic relations, but this one is pretty 
 basic. However, it really didn't limit the fun of the game at all. It just makes you play it a 
 little differently.
  
  Overall, this is a really fun game from which I've derived hours and hours of enjoyment, and will 
 continue to play intermittently for a long time to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:23 am PT
Review:  Civilisation revolution is greatly fun. the turn based strategy (which is new to me) if very fun 
 and different and is something to expierience. Humor also fills this game. Like the fact that your 
 foreign advosor looks like condalezza rice, or how all of your advisors and the other leaders push 
 eachother out of the way.
  
  Many difficulties, ways to win, choices on who to be and different scenarios. makes it very easy 
 to find a way to make the game just right for you. The different ways to win are great for making 
 the game more suiting for more people. like if you dont like the pressure of being at war with 
 everyone you can easily settle with winning a cultural, economical or technological victory. The 
 scenarios are a great way to add taste to the game and add more options if you are having trouble 
 with wining a normal match. The lightning round is a great way to chalenge yourself without the 
 risk of wasting a lot of time (see below) . Or ifyou want to win domiation victory but someone allways 
 wins something else before you can capture the enemy capitals, you can just do one of the domination 
 only scenarios.
  
  The game has some negatives to it. One is that spendind three hours on a match to lose by a close 
 margin is a huge bummer. This makes trying the highest difficulties more risky. though i dont see 
 a way to fix this besides making the game unfair so i guess its just the thing with this game, 
 but if you get good its not a prolem. Also diplomacy is limited. other civs can threaten to declare 
 war on you if you dont give them things like great people, techs and gold. the ability to do this 
 back to them would be great. Also multiplayer takes a long time but its fine if the other players 
 dont take that long to move. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madnavigator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier's "Civilization" games are known for their cerebral, habit-forming gameplay. People are 
 known to sit for hours at their computers, trying to launch the Egyptians into space or helping 
 the Aztecs invent The Internet. Now gamers can build thriving civilizations on their consoles in 
 this brilliant recreation from Sid Meier, Firaxis, and 2K Games.
  
  Admittedly, a lot of the elements from the PC "Civilization" games have been either sped up or 
 dumbed down. Amazingly enough, that doesn't detract from the series' immersive, highly-addictive 
 gameplay. This is an asset when games become unusually fast to play through. Players of "CivRev" 
 also can earn in-game achievements and trophies, which enhance the replay value.
  
  The original objectives of "Cultural Victory" and "Domination" carry over from the PC series, as 
 well as the options to press forward into space or participate in nuclear war. Stacking units has 
 become easier.
  
  The presentation is a bit cartoony, but it's not a major detractor.
  
  This game could very well be the "gateway drug" for console gamers to develop a Civ addiction 
 before moving on to the harder, more involved PC games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSchrowang
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 23, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  I've always loved Civilization games, so when I found out there was one coming out on PS3 I was 
 stoked. I downloaded the demo and literally played the demo every day until the game came out.
 
  
  I have to force myself to turn off the PS3 and go to bed sometimes. This game exemplifies the "one 
 more turn" addiction that can overtake even the hardiest of souls.
  
  That said, I have two gripes:
  
  I: Game length drives me crazy! I start playing and three 
 hours later I look up and wonder why it's dark outside all of a sudden. I almost wish the games 
 were either shorter so I could finish in two hours or less, or longer so I could pick a good stopping 
 point and come back later. I hate saving and leaving a game because it always feels like victory 
 is two turns away.
  
  II: Repetition. As great as this game is, after a month of solid play, the concepts are starting 
 to get old. I know there is an update coming soon that will add more wonders etc, but I miss the 
 depth that CivIII and CivIV had. Every game starts to feel the same after a while.
  
  Other than that, this game is amazing. Its that type of game you find yourself thinking about at 
 work, strategizing what your next move will be as soon as you get home.
  
  If you have a PS3 and you have any interest in strategy games or empire-building games, this is 
 a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:01 am PT
Review:  So I played the demo, and enjoyed it, but the demo ended rather quickly. "Game will end in 5 turns". 
 So I went out and bought it because I was having fun and come to find out, the regular game ends 
 quickly too.
  
  The gameplay is really the biggest concern in a strategy game. It's normally my largest complaint. 
 You should put no limits on the number of people, armies, or cities that can be built, and Civ: 
 Rev does that fine, it just puts a limit on time, which is almost more annoying.
  
  Other than time it's a really great console adaptation to a decidedly PC genre. You don't have 
 alot of options, but what you do have works with the fast paced gaming. 
  
  The story changes everytime you play, though it's not much of a story, and everyone speaks a deformed 
 version of gibberish. Entertaining at first, slightly annoying as time went by.
  
  Graphically, pretty. It looks pretty good, not outstanding, but not bad.
  
  I'd recommend it 
 for an occasional quick burst of strategy, as long as you're not looking for depth.... or the ability 
 to crush the world with a million man army. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sbiggy
Rating: 2.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  I tried really hard. The game received so fantastic review that I jumped on it without even checking 
 how it works. Unfortunately it ended up like jumping to the pool without checking if the water 
 is there.
  
  I really wanted to get reasonable fun for the money I spent on the game. I put extra effort, because 
 the game series (CIV) is one of my favourites. At the end I gave up with bitter taste of defeat.
 
  
  Agree - lots of historical material, quick game, no micromanagement, but still it is not enough 
 to challenge CIV4.
  
  At the same time locations and people look so sweet as if they run away from a toy store with dolls. 
 The control over the town is substantially reduced and development of units and town is oversimplified. 
 
  
  In general - the CIV spirit was replaced with flashy comic-alike animations. For me it's a big 
 disappointment.
  
  Still having said that the concept itself to move from PC platform to consoles I is definitely 
 good idea, so maybe the next release of CIV will allow to merge both.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gbud420
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  How in the world can anyone give this game a 9.0? I beat it in about 4 hours or less the first 
 time through. This is my first strategic style game on the PS3, and its certainly going to be the 
 last. After I "beat" the game the first time, I thought for sure I must have missed so much since 
 it was over in one nights play. I gave it a 2nd try, um yeah that was a waste also. The graphics 
 were horrible, all of the characters mumble (nice way to go cheap on quality voices) . The ending 
 of the game is like, what... that's it? There is no feeling of accomplishment when the credits start 
 to roll, and no reason to ever want to play it again. Even though you can choose 16 different nations 
 to play as, choosing a different nation really has no different outcome in the end. I bought the 
 game 3 days ago, I'm already selling it online... what a waste of money. I don't understand how 
 gamespot review gave this a 9.... I gave it a 5 and thats being generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zhuge_liang_
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  The arrival of Sid's Civilization series to the consoles was generally awaited by his fans, promising 
 a new hope that the game would be streamlined so that 20 hours of gaming is shortened to just 5-7 
 hours.
  
  The game was totally streamlined and the concepts of the original Civilization is still there, 
 to build, expand and conquer. Managing local and foreign affairs was an easy task, even for players 
 who didn't even played this game before.
  
  Diplomacy was rather very limited. You can't trade resources to other Civs. Maybe the rulers are 
 selfish. It just don't add up. You can trade technologies to other Civs and guess what if you're 
 playing chieftain? They'll just answer come back again because they're treasury is empty. In Deity, 
 they'll say that they don't have interest in your technologies which means that your technology 
 is a bit late than theirs.
  
  Barbarians, another thing that makes a big difference. When you conquer a village, they'll give 
 you gold or a caravan. Handy sometimes, but not always. Gold is used for rushing units for defense 
 or offense and paying minuscule to large amounts to other rulers who tries to threaten you, if 
 you're a coward. You have the advantage over the barbarians, as they only have a standard or even 
 lower strength than 0.5.
  
  The graphics looks great. Something to be commended. You can see every detail of an object and 
 also, every moment until your doom, or at least a victory. It's an impossible thing to see a mountaintop 
 as high as Everest some 25 regions away. Also, fighting was greatly improved by large armies fighting 
 for a region.
  
  The game is divided into many regions, may it be sea, desert, forest, etc. Strategically, tiles 
 or regions that has a hill is easier to defend, just put some archers to defend. 
  
  Unlike the PC predecessors of this game, expanding borders isn't all about culture. It's all about 
 population. The AI covers the tasks greatly, but you may want to tweak the AI workers. Balanced, 
 production, growth, all of the choices in just one click.
  
  If you're building the Manhattan project, think twice. See the future. You're technologically advance 
 now, but how about an hour later? Will you be nuked like bullets fired on a machine gun? Yes, you 
 may nuke the enemy early, but that doesn't stop others from doing it to you.
  
  The concept of Armies was put into good use at this game. You can build an army by click a unit, 
 and if the unit has two similar ones inside the tile. In sort, three units of the same type, if 
 joined, forms an army. An army is three times more powerful and effective than normal ones.
  
  At least, the AI have mercy on the player. Every one in a thousand battles, your strength-inferior 
 unit will have the guts to defeat one or two more strength larger than itself, which is a classic 
 game concept of luck. Luck can also be bad for you, as an army of Conquistadors can be killed by 
 a legion army.
  
  Artillery was also strengthened, a proof is that an Elite Legion Army can be killed by only one 
 piece of artillery without anyone of those legions scratching even the tiniest part of the catapult.
 
  
  A bit of a problem is when units attack, they wait for the enemy to make the first move. A knight 
 army can lose 2-3 knights because of the waiting factor, even if their enemy is only a warrior.
 
  
  The Promotions in the game works perfectly fine. When a unit goes to elite status (3 wins) , the 
 dress of that unit will be changed. For Example, if you chose the guerrilla upgrade, your upgraded 
 unit's dress color will turn into black, somewhat like a camouflage.
  
  Sounds aren't a bit of an excitement, as for the few hours you play you'll love it, but after that, 
 it's just normal. An exemption is that your adviser's voice. It's the same all over and over again.
 
  
  Overall, Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution was a major step for the series, as to what streamlining 
 a game, overdoing it can cause severe boredom and an uneasy simplicity. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PilgorTheMighty
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:06 am PT
Review:  This game came from out of nowhere, my brother rented this game and I watched him play it and it 
 looked pretty fun so then I tried it and it was fun. One of the reasons this game is fun is because 
 you can do so many things like build cities, build roads, discover new technologies, get Great 
 People, build buildings, and many more things to do. A very great thing about this game was the 
 controls were so easy to master. The AI in this game because it is not hard or easy, it is just 
 right. (I only played through this game on king mode, it could be harder) It is also cool when you 
 start from the ancient age and you work your way up to the modern age. The only bad thing about 
 this game is that it does not have many units. I would recommend this game to anyone who has the 
 money to buy this game that is so good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zoidsj
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  To be honest i did not expect this title to be as fun as it is. This is still Civilization you 
 remember. It still has the techs, units, and leaders you remember. The console Civ has taken away 
 the micro management of cities and you no longer need to spend 20 turns building roads between 
 cities as soon as you settle a town your villagers get right to work. The graphics are amazing 
 and it is simpler than you expect a console strategy game to be. But this game is not without its 
 flaws the amount of units is measly compared to its PC predecessors and it does get laggy at times. 
 The maps aren't nearly as big as its PC counter part. Also the multiplayer is not as fast paced 
 as you would want it to be. But in the end the flaws are minor and can be overlooked and it is 
 still an instant classic we remember. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diablo_A1
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 5, 2008 8:01 pm PT
Review:  I guess I am just used to the game for PC. I know they were aiming to bring new people in but what 
 about the folks who have been playing it on PC! Again, I find this a personal disappointment especially 
 with map selections and micromanagement and viewing points. I hear also that there will be if not 
 at all very few downloadable content for the game, I was hoping for extra maps such as an actual 
 earth map. Overall the game could have not sold out so much to new users but money is money I guess. 
 On a few good notes, I did enjoy the colorful setup of the game although it does seem a bit cartoonish 
 for my taste. Also the languages spoken by the advisers is a plus and was unique. 
  I would like to hope for a more detailed Civilization for next time including efforts to decrease 
 its child-like image. I have not played it online so have no comment for it. I also would enjoy 
 more Civs to be available with again, a actual earth map. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TUNEwon
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 4, 2008 8:17 pm PT
Review:  I'm a fan of the Civilization series and I love strategy games, turn based and real time. I also 
 think it's about time that a solid strategy game has come out on a console. So let me make this 
 short and sweet, go play this game. It has a slow start but a battllelishious and satisfying end. 
 But lets be real, if your reading this review you don't need anyone to convince you to play this 
 game. This review is for those who value 60 bucks and want to make sure it's not wasted. So lets 
 talk about some of the games downers. Graphics are a good place to start, and I wasn't impressed 
 with the new look of overly cartoony large chunky cities with neon bright textures. But who cares 
 it doesn't make or break a game for me. What I did have beef with is that they took out my Irish 
 brethren, and a few other bells and whistles. One bell, was the lack of stacking up my armies creating 
 a horde slashing and burning anything in my way. The console version will only allow you to stack 
 3 units into a army. But yet again, not an issue worth not playing this game. Here is my biggest 
 problem I had with this game. The worthless online play, even after downloading the new 1.2 patch 
 I still have problems connecting with their server. But even if I do find someone to play with, 
 like I did last night, I'm not sure games with slow to no action were meant to be played for 3 
 to 4hours. It's like playing risk with someone handicapped. I have a lot of fun playing the single 
 player game, about an hour maybe two hours later, game over I win:) But the online play almost 
 made me wonder if I should have rented this game. Gamefly is a good thing go get it. But I own 
 the game and I'm happy, I can't wait for the next Civ game on the PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Neomaniac15
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:12 pm PT
Review:  For years Civilization has been making video gamers lose more sleep than a person with severe imsomnia 
 (a disorder that causes you to stay awake even when you're extremely tired) . While this particular 
 Civ game isn't quite on par with it's pc predecessors it has that same addictive feel and sense 
 of enjoyment that comes with commanding a nation and leading it to victory. Each Civ has unique 
 abilities for each of the four ages your Civ will pass through and a special ability that remains 
 in effect from start to finish. This could be anything from starting with a technology, wonder, 
 gold, or having upgraded troops. While it's true the game is short, it's addictive feel mentioned 
 earlier will most likely keep you satisfied for a long time. That coupled with the fact that you 
 have a trophy room that shows all of your accomplishments such as Civs you've won against and what 
 victories you've won and with who. The Civs and victories will look different depending on what 
 difficulty you played on from a distasteful greenish rock to solid gold. Lastly the trophy room 
 also shows all the wonders you've ever constructed. The bottom line is that this is a great game 
 that should be at least rented by Civ newcomers like myself and Civ veterans alike. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duckafro
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 2:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the first official civilization game I have played and it's been very absorbing. The turn 
 based gameplay is made easy to organize what each city will build and where to move your units. 
 Although, later on in the game when you get more cities it becomes quite hectic when trying to 
 get out the most science or gold out of a city without it being captured by another faction.
  There are 5 difficulty levels in the game. The first difficulty is quite easy and could be interpreted 
 as a introductory to the game's basic gameplay and mechanics. 
  Sometimes, the game has a small bug where there are 2 or 3 music tracks playing at the same time. 
 This is mostly due to me skipping the notices that my building or wonders have been finished along 
 with a great person appearing. All this can be avoided though so its not a major problem.
  A small disappointment to me was that the game lacked a story line of any kind. I'm not too familiar 
 with the Civ franchise, whether they had a single player story or not in the past. But it would 
 have had a slightly higher rating from me if they had one.
  This game is highly addictive once your start playing. For me, i have never been able to stop playing 
 until I achieved victory. Even though there are save point in the game. For instance, once you 
 advance into the industrial era, there will be a save point for you, and another when you reach 
 the modern era, etc. 
  There is a large quantity of nations to choose from such as USA, Spain, France, China, Mongolia, 
 Middle East, Germans, Romans, Greeks, and more. Each nation has their own special characteristics 
 from special units to bonuses from each era.
  Their is also a hall of fame where you can see what you have achieved or gained throughout all 
 your campaigns. 
  All in all, the gameplay is one of the best for strategy games on a console, the difficulty is 
 perfect for newcomers, and the quantity of nations along with the many of ways to can achieve victory 
 is nothing short of astounding.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: drgnfli00
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 31, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  Don't even bother with this game if you have played any of the PC versions of this game. This is 
 basically a dumbed down version for the masses to grace the consoles. 
  
  Way to many thigs are missing from this game that have made the PC versions so much fun to play. 
 Diplomacy is a joke. A democratic government has always been a great government with few flaws 
 one of the being you cant declare war unprovoked. Well the AI in the game assures you that you 
 wont have to declare war, they will do it for you on a consistent basis. 
  
  There are no costomization of the maps in game at all. No map sizes to choose from, opponent numbers, 
 game winning options etc. The maps that are generated seem very small and you will be crowded out 
 very quickly along with your competition. Don't expect to make many native cities as most of the 
 cities you will generate in the end will be captured /converted cities. 
  
  There are a smaller amount of units and limited functionality of some of the units. Come on how 
 come you cant bombard with a battleship anymore???
  
  No trading networks of resources, or gold. 
  
  When you reach a game winning goal you do not 
 have the option to continue the game. (Or am I doing something wrong) What gives!!!
  
  The controlling also takes awhile to get used to. The are a bit herkey jerky and at times frustrating 
 to use.
  
  Don't get me wrong.... if you haven't played the PC version I am sure you will be tickled to play 
 this version. It is still good, albeit a shell of the original PC versions. The graphics are good, 
 but ill be honest this is not the type of game that should go out of its way to produce great graphics. 
 Its a strategy game. This is why even the very first Civ is still a blast to play. You can make 
 a chess board look pretty but you still have to play the game with skill to win. And for god sakes 
 get rid of the stupid Sims voice acting... it is annoying and shouldn't be tolerated anymore in 
 a game like this. Get some real dialog. If you are like me you will be turning down the Sim voices 
 real quick. 
  
  Gret game for newcomers, disappointment for avid fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iankusc
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Maybe for those unfamiliar with the game this Civ is a treat- it is VERY easy to navigate and the 
 design really has never been more polished. But the limited gameplay, at least compared to the 
 PC version, made this a very uninteresting game for me. But then again, I'm still delving into 
 the depths of Civ 4 (a seemingly endlessly playable game) , so my perspective is skewed.
  
  I found it very easy to pick up and play, but impossible not to compare to other Civs (or even 
 Alpha Centauri) . The Diplomacy seems no more complex than it did in 1991 with Civilization, and 
 the lack of religion makes playing for culture very difficult. But those are both dealable. What 
 I could NOT deal with is the lack of start-up options- 1 map size? Fixed number of opponents? That's 
 just too limited for me.
  
  If you've played Civ a lot, maybe it's best to wait for an updated version. This game as it stands 
 is just too shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaderzzz
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:39 am PT
Review:  Im going to keep this simply snappy: it is a PC game & cant be fully translated or appreciated 
 if played on another platform... it will give you hours of fun/ headache on ps3 as u try to master 
 it. the different levels of play and the 4 ways to victory will keep u engaged as u just begin 
 to see the depth of vision from the creator Sid Meir. when ur finished try civ4 on pc... good luck! 
 the game on ps3 needs to be played on the KING level to even begin to be appreciated on this platform. 
 Civ. Rev is a short story wanting more of a delectable morsel where as Civ. 4 is a novel richly 
 satiating but slow to digest. 
  
  Hence, Civilization Revolution misses important critical city analysis required of any civilization 
 @ micro and even macro levels which very intellectualy exciting and therefore rewarding. But of 
 course this is ps3, and shouldnt be taken so seriously -- it is just a sweet taste of the possibilities 
 of the genre on a different platform that missed perfection due to its inherent limitations while 
 experimenting on it -- audacious! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 29, 2008 3:53 pm PT
Review:  beware: this game may make you lose your job and/or drop your grades in school if you're the type 
 of gamer that doesn't know when or how to turn the game off. 
  
  i've never played a civilization game and downloaded this demo on a whim. i played the demo more 
 than i've played some full games i downloaded. to say that there's a lot to do in this game is 
 an understatement. it literally is a different experience every time you play with elements that 
 require you to consider each move and hone your strategic skills of ruling a nation (and taking 
 over other nations in the process) . 
  
  to describe the gameplay and all you can do would take too much space and time... for that read 
 the full review or download the demo. what i will say is that whether you're the type that likes 
 to be an all out tyrant warring with every country you come across or you're the type to build 
 a prestigious nation and be diplomatic about things this game has a spot for you in it. 
  
  some of the other rulers may try and test your methods though causing you to adjust accordingly. 
 but that's all in the fun of this game. you choose a civilization and start off as a fledgling 
 city with one group of settlers and one group of 3 warriors. from there you can either build an 
 army that strikes fear the world over or build a nation of scholars and/or cultured artists. 
 
  
  this is definitely one game you need to try to fully appreciate and understand. all i will say 
 is that it is definitely worth checking out and that it could potentially have you hooked for hours 
 at a time. beware. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:45 am PT
Review:  I have been an avid Civilization player since Civ 1. I've thrown much of my life away on civ play 
 the world and couldn't cozy up to the fourth installment released a few years back. Civilization 
 Revolution doesn't expand on the concept of Civilization - it diminishes its scale. I agree with 
 what many reviewers are saying: No ability to define your maps or play with more than 5 civs definitely 
 offers a more streamlined game that is more accessible to newcomers but also satisfies Civilization 
 veterans even though its a little frustrating.
  
  With all the differences in graphics (more cartoony) and scale (map sizes - micro management - 
 number of Civ's in a game) my first reaction was one of 'Oh uh - were on thin ice'. I gotta say 
 - the concept really did not sound appealing. The game delivers and manages to offer the same great 
 feeling that the other games have done. It's a little annoying that all the Civs constantly want 
 to gang up on you for no good reason - it makes me feel like they wanted to make a fighting game 
 and less of an open ended reality game. Chieftain and Warlord are great for beginners but as soon 
 as you take on 'King' difficulty everyone you meet declares war on you - even at the beginning 
 of the game when you practically have almost nothing. And another annoying fact is that even though 
 you only have a few warriors and a settler on the way - the other Civs have mass armies! How does 
 that work out???
  
  The be all and end all is that even with these scale changes - the experience is one that veterans 
 of the series will find very comfortable. At the end of the day its the same great game - and the 
 fact that I can finish a full game in four to five hours as opposed to thirty and up - is welcome! 
 It's great to be able to play a whole campaign in a single afternoon... And at least this way... 
 there's less chance of being fired from your job!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: popteodor
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 12:02 am PT
Review:  First of, let me say i am a big fan of this series. Actually, Civilizations is (suppose you can 
 say "is" about a series this big) my favorite game ever. So naturally i jumped on this game and 
 i can say i am satisfied with what i found. Of course there are a lot of Civilizations PC players 
 who are complaining about all the things missing in this game, but that is because you are looking 
 at it the wrong way. For what this game is supposed to be, a quick shot in the Civilizations world, 
 a quick get it, dominate the world, feel good kinda'of experience, this game completely does what 
 it's supposed to do. Plus, remember that it's the first of it's kind (console game) and things 
 are only going to get better, but until then, i think this game has what it takes to keep you busy 
 for a long time. Every time i finished up a game, i was already up for the next one, couldn't wait 
 to start it. While some people argue that the sort duration of this game (about 3 hours) is in 
 fact it's minus, i think it's actually a plus. I remember in PC versions there were hours at a 
 time when all i did was ... grow, research, build, no action, just ... management. While, for a 
 fan of the series that is OK, for someone not so passionate, that is a problem. Of course the console 
 game is lighter in a lot of areas, but for a 3 hour game, it packs a lot of action and just enough 
 civilization management. And trust me when i say you can get bored (not enough to quit the game, 
 after all is addictive :) ) of researching and growing and expanding peacefully, but you rarely 
 get bored of smashing and trashing your opponents.
  PS. The reason i only have it 9.5 is because of my PC past: sometimes the game does feel a bit 
 short, especially when I'm smashing through the AI's towns. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is the latest game in the famous Civilization series made by master game 
 designer Sid Meier and Firaxis Games. Ever since the beginning of the series in 1991, Civilization 
 games have been PC exclusives. Civilization Revolution marks the first time that the series has 
 been designed specifically for consoles instead of the PC.
  
  With new gaming platforms to work with, it is not surprising that Civilization Revolution makes 
 several game play omissions in an attempt to appeal to a wider audience and make the game more 
 enjoyable for console users. Unfortunately some of those omissions are absurd. The result is an 
 enjoyable, but flawed turn-based strategy game.
  
  Just like in previous Civilization games, your goal in Civilization Revolution is to build a civilization 
 that can stand the test of time. Before the game starts, you must choose which civilization you 
 want to play as. The selection includes the Greeks, Mongols, French, Americans, and many others. 
 Each civilization has unique advantages, such as starting with an advanced technology or having 
 some sort of combat bonus with a specific unit type.
  
  Upon starting the game, you will be given a lone settler unit that you can use to build your first 
 city. After establishing yourself, you are able to explore the map, meet the other civilizations 
 competing against you, and build up your own civilization with new technology, military units, 
 and city improvements, to deal with them appropriately.
  
  If you have played previous Civilization games, you will feel right at home here since the basic 
 formula has not been changed. Rather, certain aspects of the formula, such as the tech tree and 
 the development of your lands, have been greatly simplified to allow for faster play.
  
  Unfortunately, this simplification takes it a bit too far in a few cases. It is baffling as to 
 why they discarded basic diplomacy options such as open border treaties and even basic resource 
 trading. As a result, diplomacy only allows you to trade technology and to convince other civilizations 
 to declare war on someone else.
  
  A heftier diplomacy system would have definitely been appreciated regarding Civilization revolution's 
 artificial intelligence (AI) . Civilization games have generally had entertaining AI. However, Civilization 
 Revolution marks a notable low point for the series in AI. The problem here is that the game's 
 AI is hyper-aggressive, even at the second lowest difficulty setting. 
  
  The result is that the AI is actually quite predictable, making it relatively easy to guess when 
 it will try to threaten you next. Regardless, Civilization Revolution's AI is still competent from 
 a game play standpoint. But it does eventually get old having to constantly deal with AI opponents 
 who only use the diplomacy system in a heavy-handed manner.
  
  Fortunately, Civilization Revolution offers multiplayer for when you are done with the single player. 
 There is also a Game of the Week option which you can play to see how you measure up to other players 
 around the world.
  
  However, the biggest problem with Civilization Revolution is a crippling lack of game play options. 
 Previous Civilization games were excellent in providing options such as different map types and 
 sizes, how many players you wanted, which victory conditions you wanted to use, and more. 
  
  Civilization Revolution doesn't give you any of these options. In the single player mode, you 
 are always forced to play on one type of random map with five players, including yourself. The 
 closest the game gets to offering game play options is with its scenarios, which all slightly customize 
 the basic game with differing victory conditions and set-ups. Unfortunately, you are only allowed 
 to play these scenarios alone, since they are not available online, and the game lacks local play 
 on anything other than a local area network.
  
  Graphically, Civilization Revolution is unquestionably the best-looking Civilization game to date. 
 The maps and units all look decent, and the water effects are quite nice. The animation for the 
 advisers and leaders in the game is also particularly well done, even though some of them can have 
 noticeable glitches if you switch between their animations too quickly. The game's audio is also 
 decent, but nothing particularly stands out about it.
  
  In the end, Civilization Revolution is a very tricky game to recommend to any large group. The 
 hardcore fans of the series will probably be disappointed with how simple the game is compared 
 to its PC counterparts, and the game may be a little too complex or time-consuming for casual gamers. 
 
  
  If you are a forgiving fan of the series who wants to be able to play a Civilization game on a 
 platform other than the PC, Civilization Revolution is the only option available to you. The game 
 is also recommended if you are specifically looking for a decent turn-based strategy game for consoles.
 
  
  Pros: Basic Civilization formula is well used here and works quite fluidly on consoles. Clean graphics.
 
  
  Cons: Hyper-aggresive AI that is extremely predictable. Appaling lack of gameplay options. Diplomacy 
 is way too limited.
  
  Recommendable for: If you are a forgiving Civilization fan, or just want a decent console turn-based 
 strategy title, you should be satisfied with Civilization Revolution. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Wow! I first saw this game on PSN and thought it was a bust, until I downloaded the demo and played 
 it. Personally, I love any type of role-playing game, but this was unique. It combined a little 
 bit of history with kick ass fun. The possibilities are endless, every time you play it is a different 
 scenario even if you are the same character. I have beaten the game in every single way in less 
 than 20 hours, so I returned it. My advice is to rent it until you beat it or get bored (unlikely) 
 and return it for something else.
  
  This is definitely not a game that people will need in their collection, but it is fun. The one 
 thing that could have been greatly improved is the online play. Frankly, it could just be deleted. 
 Choosing moves while online and it can be blood-curdling to wait that long for your next move. 
 This is a fun game that can be played for a week and be dismissed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kinderegg
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Civilization Revolution is alot of fun especially for anyone who enjoys turned based strategy games. 
 Personally, I have always found it shocking that it is virtually an ignored genre outside PC's. 
 
  
  However, after a week of playing it, I got extremely bored. Rise of Nations on the PC came out 
 years ago and it had more options for single player scenarios then this. Frankly, I expected more. 
 Why couldn't you build bridges? Why couldn't you have more then five players on a map? Or a larger 
 map or a detailed rather than randomly generated one? Where was the aircraft carrier? Where were 
 the additional weapons like carpetbombing? Why do you only get to use a nuke once? There was rarely 
 any difference from being one culture or another and once the modern era hits everyone is the same 
 (come on... Mongols with battleships?!) .
  
  While the graphics are impactful, I could not see many gameplay advances from the Civilization 
 game released on the PS1 ages ago. What also got under my skin was how 2100 or some other random 
 year ended the game. And how in the year 2050, I was still operating a WW2 era military. The future 
 technology advances after all techs were researched did nothing.
  
  Overall, it is a middle of the road game. Not worth buying. I returned my purchased copy after 
 a week and a half. At best, it is a fun rental for, say, a week. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex4291
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 26, 2008 2:56 pm PT
Review:  After playing the demo of this game for my Playstation 3 i couldn'y wait to get my hands on a copy, 
 now that i have it I'm disappointed that the depth of the game doesn't go past the demo much besides 
 more turns. However the game is endlessly replayable. From the large array of world leaders to 
 the numerous selections of Wonders, Buildings, and upgrades this game truly does impress. I was 
 looking to see a bit better campaign, but the seeminngly infinite features of this game held me 
 in rapture. Whether tou go to colonize Alpha Centauri, set off a nuke and capture 4 capitals, build 
 the United Nations, or World Bank, the different types of victories and different leaders trully 
 make this game impressive. I think I'll be playing this game a lot. It's hard to get tired of world 
 domination when you have so many options at your fingertips. I give it an 8.5 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnoSlider-PS3-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 24, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  This is hands down the best strategy game ever formatted for home gaming consoles. The depth at 
 which you decide to play will determine how succesful each campaign will be. Experienced Civ IV 
 players should go straight to King difficulty, just for a couple of games to learn the controls. 
 The challenge at the emperor level is perfect, if you scrutinize your civ's options down to the 
 smallest details, and think ahead as to which victory condition you are trying to achieve, from 
 the first turn of the game. Much like Civ IV this game will keep your eyes wide open into the early 
 hours of morning, knowing full well you have to get up for work real soon. The new Wonders and 
 Buildings effects help streamline the experience. Also not having to set tasks for each worker 
 and populous are welcome reliefs! 
  Any one who enjoyed PixelJunk Monsters should also pick this one right up. You'll be amazing yourself 
 every time you catch onto one of the game's many clever ways to "cheat" the opponents and the building 
 systems. 
  This game is a ton of fun, and good brain exercise too! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Baugoti
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 22, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  This game starts off really fun, offering a lot of area to explore and a lot of things to discover. 
 After awhile the game starts to get repetitive and can be a little to easy at times. Lacks a lot 
 of the depth of previous pc civ games, and feels more like Sid Meier's pirates without the fun 
 pirating. One of the pluses to the game are the many different ways to win a campaign. From capturing 
 your opponents cities or being the first in space, there are many different ways to play the game. 
 But with diplomacy being very short sighted at times it can be easy to forget about combat and 
 get to caught up in economics.
  
  There are 16 civilizations to choose from each with there differences so it adds some strategic 
 aspect to the game play. Games can be fast, so you can jump right into another one right away. 
 Multiplayer is a fun experience with up to 4 players battling as teams, head to head, or have a 
 complete free-for-all online. Auto-matching, ranked games, leader boards, and achievements make 
 the online play more versatile and fun than any previous version of Civilization.
  
  
  The presentation of the game is very nice indeed. The visuals are lush and interesting, while the 
 sounds are hilarious and engaging. The environments, unit sprites, animations, leaders, and advisors 
 are all very well recreated and pop off the screen with vibrant colors. The game moves along at 
 a fast clip, and the graphics nearly keep up with it. Unfortunately, you will notice some lag and 
 shuddering when leaders and advisors pop in and out of view. However, this doesn't substantively 
 hamper gameplay, but it is a bit unpolished. As far as sounds are concerned, combat grunts, bombing 
 runs, and the clever use of "Firax-lish" by the leaders and advisors are great. None of the in-game 
 avatars actually speak coherently, but somehow the characteristics of their native tongue or features 
 of their personalities come through. Despite how enjoyable this is initially, it can get pretty 
 repetitive, as your domestic advisor just can't get over saying "Hootoo!"
  
  All in all Civilization Revolution is a fun addition to console gaming, while lacking some of the 
 depth of previous Civ games, the depth of multiplayer will make you keep playing. Computer AI can 
 be a little limited with only 4 difficulty settings, but add for good practice before you connect 
 online and take on harder opponents. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutt523
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:00 pm PT
Review:  This is a game about choosing a culture and trying to make it the best culture in the world. There 
 are 4 ways to win. One is to domination. To do this you must take all the other cultures cultures. Another 
 way is technolgy victory. To do this you have to build up technology and launch a shuttle to the 
 Alpha Centuri. Another way is economic victory. To do this you must get 20,000 gold and build the 
 world bank. The last way is Culture victory. You have to aquire 20 great people, wonders, or converted 
 cities. There are 4 difficulties. This is in order from easiest to  
 You casn choose form 16 different cultures with special abilties or units. At first it starts out 
 us fun but then gets boring with no story line and no change. I would recomend for you to rent it 
 first before buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: odesyess
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 20, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  Sometimes there are just times when you want to sit back and take things in at your own pace without 
 busting your brain or breaking a sweat, but at the same-time make decisions momentous or otherwise 
 that can shape "a people", effect international trade, start wars, conquer countries, and indeed 
 dictate the course of civilization for centuries to come, and of course have a legacy for all to 
 remember! You know Kinda like being George W. Bush. LOL!
  
  If only "W" had this game to play with, we would Well, you know!
  
  Be that as it may, as 
 in Sid Meier's Civilization Revolution you get to play as any one of 16 great historical leaders, 
 Napoleon, Cleopatra, Genghis Kahn, to Abraham Lincoln, Julius Caesar, and others. The historical 
 relevance stops just about there, though you will represent the relevant country, and be able to 
 select the names of famous cities from those countries as you built new cities. Apart from the 
 starting advantages, there is pretty much not a difference between how the game progresses from 
 country to country. The typically game length spans several thousand years, with 100 years passing 
 at each turn. There is little relationship between the current year and the development of your 
 military units, apart from the fact that they advance through time. You could quite conceivably 
 have warriors and knights running around, and still win a resounding victory despite the fact that 
 it could be well beyond the year 2008.
  
  These things aren't criticisms as they might appear, but rather simplifications of the order my 
 buddy George W can even appreciate. Who wants a complicated turn-based Sim where you have to keep 
 track of every single detail, especially considering how much more complex things get as you go 
 into the future?
  
  So you have four potential paths to victory, world domination, technology, economic, or cultural. 
 All basically rely upon balancing the focus of science research and wealth creation, and balancing 
 the production of military units, buildings, and wonders. Science research is organized in a hierarchical 
 tree in which prerequisites must be completed by moving through the required turns, in order to 
 unlock more advanced technologies. With 6 government types each with its advantages and disadvantages, 
 8 terrain types each with a requisite technology required to harvest, 20 great people with any 
 of 6 different special skills or advantages, 4 ways to win, spies, caravans, and much more, there 
 is enough granularity for those over-achievers who want to "get into the nitty gritty". Did I mention 
 you can play online with other Humans?
  
  So what can I say, there's plenty of replay value here, it usually take a few hours to finish an 
 entire civilization on chieftain level the easiest level. I think there are 3 levels, so if you 
 factor that against 16 countries, and 4 different ways to win, and a random world it's easy to 
 see that you will likely never play the same game twice.
  
  So give it shot, see how you stack up against the great leaders of the world. I bet I know right 
 off the bat what leader you have beat, though he's not in the game! 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: UBCS1967
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 17, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Generally I try to avoid strategy games for consoles, since most of the others that I've tried 
 weren't that enjoyable. This one on the other hand peaked my interest due to the fact that I enjoyed 
 Sid Meier's other games. I first heard of it from a commercial (which I haven't actually seen again 
 since then) . So renting the game there are a few things that you notice, the game is extremely 
 cartoony, so anyone looking for a realistic strategy game should look elsewhere. The gameplay is 
 very enjoyable and the interface is easy to master, at first many research portions of the game 
 may seem huge and somewhat daunting but after playing through a couple of times you find that they 
 are actually quite linear. There isn't any actual customization that you can get from developing 
 different technologies sooner or what type of government you choose. So in the end, even though 
 this game is extremely fun you are ultimately left with the same units, and generally the same 
 outcome. Also the complete lack of any sort of story mode does not help make this game any more 
 worth buying in the least.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3S420
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 16, 2008 12:34 pm PT
Review:  Civ Revolution is crap! There is no option to change game settings for single player games except 
 for the difficulty. There is no option to disable certain victories, pick your opponents, change 
 game speed, map size or type, and pretty much anything else that you can do on PC version. Not 
 only that but ICBMs or nukes are pretty much nonexistent do to the fact only one civ can create 
 1 nuke. Yeah one nuke per game! WTF is that crap if you like civ games that allowed to end the 
 earth or cause major destruction then this game is not for you. There are some things that are 
 good about Civ Revolution like the battle animation are better than PC and you can name landmark 
 terrain and spies can kidnap great people but that all falls to nothing because they totally nerfed 
 nukes. And for the straw that broke the camel's back is the AI is crappy and easy to beat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OminousShadow87
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  Okay, so if you've read anything else about this game, you know that it is basically a faster paced 
 version of the PC Civs. Games last 2-4 hours, and multiplayer takes even longer. I'm not going 
 to go into what makes this game tick, and how it works, I'm just going to tell you what's wrong 
 with it and why I rated this game an 8.0.
  
  First of all, there's a sound effect in the game that sounds like my dogs throwing around their 
 food bowl. I don't know what triggers it, but it annoys the hell out of me and the only way to 
 turn it off is to turn off the sound. So the sound rating, very low.
  
  Graphics are solid. Brief five, ten second freezes, not too common and no big deal. Catherine, 
 the Russian leader, is HOT. Graphics, high rating.
  
  Gameplay at first seems pretty good with a decent challenge. You get the hang of things with the 
 first two difficulties and then King, the middle of the five difficulties, is where you need to 
 start using your brain. Emporer is very challenging, and Deity is obscenely hard. The thing about 
 the gameplay is, in single player, the Civs just gang up on you. Rarely will you see one Civ attack 
 another, and I mean RARELY, and even when you bribe one Civ to attack another for an obscene amount 
 of cash, they sign a peace treaty after the 5 turns, always. The victory conditions are ridiculous, 
 cultural is always the easiest and first available. Tech takes the longest by far, economic is 
 usually several turns behind cultural. Domination is only possible by playing defense until you 
 develop more futuristic units than your opposing Civs (i. e. Tanks and Infantry while they still 
 have Knights and Pikemen) , and that's if you can pull it off.
  
  I guess I should go back though, because the main problem I have is the lack of customization. 
 When creating a game, you pick difficulty and the Civ you want to play as. That's it. Multiplayer 
 is not much different. You can set a handicap, pick a Civ, and if you are playing teams, pick a 
 team. That's it. Multiplayer is always 5 players (except head to head mode, which is 1v1) , up to 
 four human players and the AI fills the rest of the slots. In no mode can you decide who the opposing 
 Civs are, how many there are, or size of the map.
  
  Needless to say, with 16 different Civs, some are better than others.
  
  Multiplayer I have 
 had problems communicating with my friends. There are constant cut-outs and I'll also here my friend's 
 comment several times. I play PS3 with two people in particular, particularly R6: V2, and we have 
 almost no problems playing together and communicating, but with this game, one of my friends can't 
 even connect and the other is, like I just mentioned, difficult to communicate with. I don't know 
 if it's just our problem or not.
  
  Even through all that tearing down, I still maintain that is a fun and addicting game. I loved 
 Civ III and even if my copy of that game still worked, I would play this game. I basically just 
 pointed out the weak points; I'm pretty sure I got them all, so yeah, great game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j5r9s2
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 15, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  okay first off by saying, wow. This game will rock your socks off. I saw the video for this game 
 and my first thought was, this game has the makings to be a decent game but not a great game. So 
 i was going to the online store and saw the free demo, I was bored so I downloaded it. played the 
 demo for about 6 hours, it was that good. woke up and bought the game. Ive been playing non stop 
 every since. With that said I guess i will review it, Now you know how much I like it... this game 
 has kinda PC feel but better. there 4 ways to win. I wont spoil that part for you though. You have 
 to build cities, armies, and technology all the while there are other countries doing the same. 
 You can go to war or you can make peace, up to you. During war, if youve found the technology you 
 can fight with arrows, swords, guns, planes, catipults, boats, there is even a Nuclear bomb. all 
 depends on how you play the game. My outcome is never the same, I never finish with the same scenario. 
 Hope you play it, it is a fresh change in pace for console. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GranReyUno
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 14, 2008 1:47 am PT
Review:  Civilization is known for being one of the best Historic Turn-Based Strategy games on the PC and 
 Civilization Revolution was a great translation to consoles.
  
  Civ Rev is a excellent crafted game that display outstanding visuals and intuitive controls that 
 make the game experience very pleasant. Compared to the PC versions, this game is a more simplified 
 system that can allow any player from any age group (10 and up) to be able to pick up and play. 
 Though a great game in it's own right, Civ Rev so suffer from a few flaws that can or can not be 
 over looked by the player.
  
  One of the game's flaws that I felt that hampers the game experience is playing it on the easiest 
 mode. This mode allows your gibberish speaking professor to constantly give you tips on how to 
 play the game. It may sound like this is very helpful for newcomers but due to the simple structure 
 of this game the annoying and constant gibberish of advice can strain and/or ruin a great experience. 
 Another flaw that this game has is the players move sets can be inconsistent at times. Even though 
 not major it can become frustrating after a few programed moves.
  
  For all the hardcore PC players that fell in love with this serious may end up love sick with this 
 one, especially the ones that enjoyed micro-managing. Civ Rev lacks the long hours, days or even 
 weeks that the PC version offered. Some of the factors that cuts this game short is that turns 
 move in accelerated time and once you win or lose the game ends and you must start a new. Don't 
 let the short campaign discourage you because this game has great reply value. Other then having 
 different civilizations to choose from (which offer different perks) the maps or randomly regenerating 
 making the quest experience fell new each time.
  
  This well crafted console version is beautiful and the controls are very easy to understand, thought 
 with a few minor game flaws. 2K Games, Firaxis Games truly did a fine job rebuilding this game 
 from the ground up to fit nicely on the PS3 console. Civ Rev may not be as deep as the PC versions 
 but it succeed where other civ-builders genres failed. A game that could have been classified as 
 revolutionary is just plain fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PoB0782
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 6:14 am PT
Review:  OK, so for those amongst us that love the PC version, this console version will not replace it. 
 However, that is not to say this is not any good. In fact, by removing some of the more fiddly 
 bits of the original (starvation, long lengths of anarchy, etc) the game is probably more approachable 
 by mainstream players.
  
  As well as holding on to the main concepts of the original game, the console version has wonderful 
 (almost cartoon style) graphics, which add a level of visual fun to the game.
  
  There are various levels of difficulty, and these are worth playing with. For anyone who has played 
 any of the Civ games before, the "easy" level will be far too simple, and you should be able to 
 play through a whole game on the easy level within 2-3 hours.
  
  As you step up the difficulty levels, this will change. It is a good idea to play around with all 
 the different levels and find one which challenges you sufficiently.
  
  One gripe with the game is the fact that in the US and Canada, gamers are receiving codes to download 
 additional content for free. This is to make up for the fact that the game release was slightly 
 delayed. As a long time Civ fanatic, I can only say I am disappointed that the Rest of the World 
 does not get this offer. We will have access to the extra content - via the Playstation Store - 
 from the Autumn, but will have to pay for it.
  
  Also, missing from the game is a scenario editor. All recent versions of Civ have come with one, 
 and user created content has generally been of the highest quality. Hopefully, this will be released 
 in the future.
  
  Having only played a couple of multiplayer games, I cannot say that I am the best person to comment. 
 However, I did find that I was disconnected on both attempts after about 1 hour of playing, and 
 this was more that frustrating. Hopefully, it is just an issue with my set up. Apart from that, 
 the multiplayer part of the game is good, though the standard irritation of waiting for others 
 to finish their turns exists. This is partially mitigated by a "turn timer" - I am just very impatient.
 
  
  Ultimately, there is little that is wrong with this game. It has great graphics, atmospheric sound, 
 and a surprisingly good interface which makes the game easy to control with the six axis controller. 
 I would like to have seen options to allow the building of custom worlds (aka Civ IV) and the option 
 to create your own Civ type, but these are minor niggles.
  
  Definitely one to get asap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmanus108
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 13, 2008 4:42 am PT
Review:  i played the demo and immediately i was hooked on this game, i musta plaed that demo for hours 
 and hours, it was sooooooo fun, then when i heard the real game came out i knew, its gonna be awesome, 
 so i went out and bought it. when i saw its now 65 dollars for a game including tax, it just killed 
 me, but man was this game worth it, its my favorite ps3 game as it should be, its so fun and is 
 like no other ps3 game out there. ive had it for like 2 days and must have played like 16 hours 
 of it, its really addicting and never gets boring and is soooooooo fun. there is so many ways to 
 play this great game. i really like it and definetly suggest it to anyone who has a  
 ........................  ...................___________ 
 _________________ ___________ ________________ _   
  _______________________ ___________ 
 ____________ _______ _============ ================ === ============== ========== +++++++++ ++++++ 
 +++++++ ++++++++++ +++++++ +++++++ +++++ ++++ +/\/\/\ /\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/  
  \/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/\/
  ************* ***************** ***** ( _ ) *********** ******************** ******** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lattimer22
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  I gotta say, I love this game! This game can be as easy or as hard as you want it to be. 
  
  When you start out you have the choice of who you want to be. To name a few you have the choice 
 of, India, Aztechs, Romans, Americas, Spanish, Japanese etc. you will begin with settlers, they 
 will dig gold and harvest food for you. You have the freedom of making decisions that will determine 
 your fate. You can choose to make a tight knit colony and stick to a small area on the map, or 
 your can scour the globe and stretch out your legs building new cities with your settlers. I just 
 won my first victory on easy and I ended up with 7 cities. I used the Americas with Lincoln as 
 the leader.
  
  I played my first map and I have to say there is a bit of a learning curve. I was going to war 
 and disrupting a lot of enemy's territory. I got my butt kicked, so it forces you to learn a steady 
 strategy. Your neighbors will pop up on your screen every now and then and threaten you, or offer 
 knowledge, also offer peace.
  
  You will research various attributes throughout the game the more cities you have the more you 
 will be able to research. You'll research things such as the Alphabet, Literacy, all the way up 
 and eventually the automobile. 
  
  The Spanish throughout the my game offered flip-flopped a couple times at first offered peace then 
 I started growing rapidly and they decided to take a couple of my cities an break the peace treaty. 
 I was able to build my military and beat there ass back to there own territories and walk them 
 right back out of those very cities they took over. Like I said before you will have a blast. You 
 set your own pace. You can research as fast or as slow as you want.
  
  If you want a break from Mario Cart, or your FPS games, give this one a shot if colonizing and 
 strategy is your cup of tea, you won't be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfox31
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 12, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  Will raid your console playlist like Napoleon raiding your fridge. Highly immersive and a definite 
 must own. The characters and levels are immersive and fun. The fact you can win so many different 
 ways and see the people evolve based on your decisions is a sign of a great game. Content is highly 
 jam packed and the extras and certain great as well. I'm not a huge RTS fan but the fact I'm pump 
 hour after sweaty hours into without realizing defintiely tells you something. The amount of units, 
 buildings and city structures are customized to each of the 16 different "world" leaders. Limited 
 features are the movement speeds and units, turns and camera angles are the only things that are 
 frustrating. Otherwise, this game grows on you and attaches to you like another bad pun I could 
 have come up with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maggamuffin
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 12, 2008 2:28 am PT
Review:  Civilization revolution is indeed the best strategy game available for consoles to date, but unless 
 strategy games are the only games you ever enjoy and you somehow still bought a console then this 
 game is not for you. The basic controls are inflexible missing several options that would increase 
 ease of use, for example there is no way to simply end your turn, you have to press the red button 
 over and over again until you end your turn, granted this doesn't come up unless you're in a stand 
 off. That is related to the main problem though which is that there are 4 ways to win, economic, 
 cultural, scientific and military and the only one that you will ever use and have any enjoyment 
 with is the military option. It was obviously a decision because you could say "4 ways to win" 
 but if you actually get into a situation where it is possible to finish any of those modes you 
 will end up waiting a long time and keeping you units at your cities which is boring and stocking 
 up on units to develop culture will make you have to click through the endless list of units as 
 said before. This game would be better if there weren't even the option to win those ways and just 
 have culture, science and economy be major elements to help you take over with military might. 
 Pretty much everything in the game manages to have a stuttery element to it or a pause, or a screen 
 freeze. The controls are easy to get used to but you feel like you're a Napolean with a broken 
 hand and the other hand behind your back, they're just very annoying. Anyways final thought, the 
 basic problem here is that when you make a strategy game you either go all in or not. I know they 
 were trying to make it more accessible but I've personally never played a civilization game and 
 i am generally bad at strategy games and this game didn't change that, so there seems to be no 
 reason for dumbing it down and removing the deep gameplay. I would've enjoyed this game if It was 
 MORE complicated, making it less doesn't make it anymore accessible than it's ever been. Embarrassment 
 for strategy games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlobberySharts
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game is great for jumping in to your CIV world, and playing for a few hours to get your victory. 
 I was a little disappointed that it is the same map over and over and over again, that you can 
 not in any way change any options other than difficulty and leader, and that the easiest way to 
 win a domination victory on the hardest setting, is just to keep popping out warriors and wonders 
 in your 1 (that's right O-N-E) city and defending it till the screen says DOMINATION VICTORY. HOWEVER, 
 it sure is great, when I only have a few hours to play. All in all, I think it is a great game 
 to get, even for all the hardcore CIV fans like me, for when you just don't have the time, or just 
 don't want to load that save on CIV 4 because you still can't see straight from having been on 
 it for 3 straight nights with no sleep. GO BUY IT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maximbobin
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 4:37 am PT
Review:  ... on PS 3 couldn't get connected at all. Xbox 360 (yes, I bought BOTH versions - I'm crazy fan) 
 - got connected, but multi is dull and boring. VERY slow (not because of the connection) . But even 
 without multiplayer it is the best Civ ever so far and it simply is one of the best games for any 
 platforms ever. Its addictive, clever, fast. not too easy, not too diffcult (though I tried only 
 "king" - didn't go higher) . It looks awesome, it plays even better. The interface is easy to learn 
 - intuitive. Definitely worth buy. Its a pitty that they cancelled PSP. Graphics on DS sacks, but 
 I think I still will buy it for DS as well. 
  What more I want to get? Give me back the Palace - loved that feature in Civ II and Civ III. Give 
 back different closes of the rules (partially done - advisors change their closes) . Ehh... thats 
 it, I suppose. Well, I would prefer a bit larger maps as an option, but whatever, who cares - its 
 great as it is now. :) )
  Sid Meier rules the world! Sid for the President! Civilization forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  I have played Sid meier's games befor just never the ones that like this. This is an awesome game 
 easy to pick up and play i beat the first round in about two hours. But the one complaint i have 
 is the difficulty level's easy it to easy and medum is to hard there is a huge differance, I love 
 the game though, Has a huge selection of rules i think 16 and four types of ways to win Domination, 
 tech, culture, and finance. There are vast ways to acomplish each. I would download the demo first 
 though to make sure it is your type of game. Then there is all kinds of dtuff to unlock from great 
 leaders to people three different eras of cultural statues or landmarks and much Like i said the 
 only complaint i have wi the game is the degree of difficulty at the begineers level after you 
 get used to the controls and have played awhile you can get into the game. The graphics are great 
 and the controls are tight. The Music fits the game well also. So go out and pick this one up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 8:38 pm PT
Review:  
  
  I have had a chance to enjoy two Sid Meier's Civilizations # III and IV on my PC and I consider 
 both, especially IV best in series.
  
  Since this is the first console release I was left with quite the skeptical feeling that the controls, 
 as well as the game, will not work out. I'm happy to admit, I was wrong.
  
  Sid Meier's Civilizations Revolution (CivRev for short) kept the feel of a excellent historic turn-based 
 gameplay that you just won't put down. The idea is still same basic: You need to take a civilization 
 at the start of history and guide its growth through the Eras to become a world leader.
  
  You wander the globe to gradually increase your civ's settlement size and interact with other civilizations, 
 either through trade and technology sharing or through military encounter. There are as usual quite 
 a few ways of wining, If you're like me, learning the future technology and building a space ship 
 will allows you to win the game once the spaceship reaches Alpha Centaury quadrant, or you can 
 win economically by becoming rich and building a World Bank, or by Culture, or Military Power, 
 eliminate anyone who stand in your way, etc...
  
  Regardless of which tree you follow there are tons of Civ's to chose from, from Russians to Japanese 
 in total of 16 nations. The best part is, it's an incredibly re-playable game, with the starting 
 scenarios randomized, so you never end up in the same situation twice. The CivRev is tune down 
 from PC versions, it's more accessible, easier to navigate and friendly interface, the game speed 
 and numerous management is also extremely well done as are my primary concern - the controls.
 
  
  If you've never played Civilization game before, you'll be up to speed in no time. If you have 
 played Civ in the past, you'll find the console version to be friendly in its controls, though 
 less managing which could go either way depending on your previous gaming experience. There certainly 
 is plenty of content to enjoy.
  
  Once you have finished the single-player game, you can play series of Play Scenarios, (you need 
 to take the civ you're given in the situation that's provided, and then achieve the desired victory.) , 
 There will also be a Game of the Week, which provides a different scenario each week and you have 
 to come up with best solution.
  
  In the end, there is multiplayer action, from "head-to-head" competition to "team battles" to "free 
 for all" fights, as well as "System Link" competition.
  
  There is a lot of things going on in Civ games, in fact to much to write in one review, if you 
 had a chance to play the available Demo and it sucked you in, you're going to have fantastic time.
 
  
  As you have probably guessed, Civilization Revolutions offers lots of gameplay, options and re-playability.
 
  
  The best way I can describe CivRev is that it's a blend of originality and addictiveness of previous 
 Civ's with very universal accessibility for all players. Veterans of the previous games will probably 
 find CivRev a "lighter" version, but the phenomenal work that developers of Firaxis and 2K Games 
 had made is entertaining and very enjoyable. Highly recommended to anyone who enjoys a fun and 
 addictive turn-based or otherwise strategy game.
  
  I would even say, a step in right Revolution.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackjack652
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game amazed me. when I first put the game into my console I didnt know what to expect. But 
 now I know. I have never even played one of the civilization games but now Im wanting to buy the 
 others. This game has everything that I like about turn based strat. games. I could sit here and 
 tell you the list one by one but pretty much every aspect of this game is great and just adds to 
 the fun of it. I like how each civilization has a very important leader and they acctually speak 
 their language. One thing that I wish you could do in the game is make your own map and then set 
 up your own scenario. But even with that small missing feature this game is still a very great 
 game. This is for every one. If you have one of the consoles that this game comes out on I would 
 recommend that you buy it ASAP. This game is fun and I have already played it for more than 20 
 hours. This game is now at the top of my shelf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AzelKosMos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 11, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Sid Meier is a genius. Nearly every title he has ever made from Civilization to Pirates has been 
 critically acclaimed and with good reason, they are fun to play. Civilization Revolution is no 
 different in this regard though it is different in comparison with other titles in this beloved 
 series.
  
  The Civilization games are a strategy series in which you pick a (surprise, surprise) civilization 
 and guide their hand through time building cities, discovering technology, forging alliances with 
 other empires and generally fight to the top from your primitive beginnings. While being primarily 
 on the PC as platform of choice, Civilization has previously had a foray onto consoles before in 
 the form of a port of Civ 2 on the PSX. It had frame rate issues, terrible controls and generally 
 didn't convey the same experience as its PC counterpart. Fortunately Civilization Revolution doesn't 
 have this problem as it was built for the consoles from the ground up, and it shows.
  
  The game has been made much more user friendly, trying to strike a balance between the hardcore 
 customisation and depth Civ fans are used to with a much smoother pick up and play style to adapt 
 more for console gamers. So if you are already a fan of Civ (like me) and don't mind some subtle 
 changes to the Civilization game play in favour of a more accessible game then this is just for 
 you.
  
  Civilization is essentially a turn based strategy title in which your selected race starts with 
 one small village at the start of time that you have to help grow and expand into the strongest 
 world power. There are four different ways to win from being the first to reach alpha centauri 
 to global domination, but the way you develop your civilization is up to you. Each culture has 
 different bonuses that will affect them during which era they are in, however these happen automatically 
 so there is little micromanagement in this regard, but there is still plenty to do in the city 
 screens. Each city you build has the option to build different buildings depending on your technology 
 level that give bonus stats. For example if you build a Library in Tokyo, the science output of 
 that city will double giving you access to develop your civilizations technology rate at a faster 
 level. Each city can only build one unit, world wonder or building at a time and this is dependent 
 on the world map around the city as to how high the production level is; mountains and forests 
 are good for a higher build rate but not good for producing food, so city placement is hugely important.
 
  
  As your empire grows and your Civilization expands other races will make contact with you in which 
 you can make peace, trade gold or technology as well as make war. Each unit has an attack and defence 
 stat and can be produced in cities, the idea being to keep units fortified in yours to protect 
 them and to attack and take for your own other civilizations cities. New to Civ Revolution though 
 is the ability to create armies. Got 3 of the same type of unit? Put them on the same square on 
 the world map and merge them together to increase their strength threefold! This ability makes 
 a surprising amount of difference to battles. Every time a unit wins 3 battles it gets a minor 
 promotion in either better stats or a new combat ability to help you turn the tide in your favour.
 
  
  Graphically Civ Revolution has taken a slightly different step from previous titles making the 
 world map and units slightly more cartoon in appearance though they are all crisp and easy to make 
 out with some amusing combat animations. The world map is vibrant and colourful with every new 
 building or world wonder obvious just by scanning past it, however there is occasional slowdown 
 as your empire expands but it is never often or long. The sound isn't quite as high a quality though 
 with no voice acting outside some muttering your advisors make when on screen or when picking your 
 race. Music is also somewhat lacking, though the sound effects are excellent and appropriate to 
 the action.
  
  Strategy games on consoles have generally been received with mixed views; this is largely due to 
 unmanageable controls. Civ Rev has taken this problem and squashed it under a heel of dominance 
 as once you are used to them they are like the game itself, concise, simple but a pleasure to use.
 
  
  One single player game takes perhaps 4 hours to finish yet this is a game that demands replay value, 
 there are 4 different ways to win, 16 races to play as, special scenarios to play as well as online 
 multiplayer but most of all it's simply addictive fun for quick fix fans or newcomers to the series 
 which is what games are all about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brinkie69
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  Well, if you're used to playing any of the Civ games for hours on end don't get this one. At most, 
 you'll play 3-4 hours. Once you win or lose you are out of turns. Done. Finished. Have to start 
 a new game. Why? I would love to continue my civ after the "official" game has ended. Allows me 
 to attack other civs, make my cities better, build more wonders, etc. I pray to God they allow 
 downloadable content that allows you to continue play after the "official" game is over. The game 
 is very fun but too damn short when you're used to playing 8 hours straight. You're better off 
 renting it if it only takes 3-4 hours to win or lose. It's almost impossible to get nuclear bombs, 
 etc because by the time you develop the technology, etc. the game is over. The best part of the 
 game though is the animations when your armies are fighting with other civ armies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CasinoOutlaw247
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game since I heard it was going to be released. Having played Civilization 
 II (PS1) and most recent Civilization IV/Beyond The Sword (PC) I was very curious how this gem 
 was going to be on the PS3. Well, after hours of play, and just now putting it down it's safe to 
 say the transition went O K A Y!
  
  Well, like any Civilization game you must pick a ruler to dominate the world. I started off with 
 Lincoln on Chieftain Mode which is basically a tutorial from the start. It is very helpful and 
 doesn't annoy as getting acclimated to the controls are a must so I took all the lessons I could 
 learn. You start off with your first city (mine was Washington) but, you can also customize your 
 next city name or choose what the AI picked. It really doesn't matter unless you really want to 
 name your city whatever you want. As with all games you build barracks for the military, temple 
 for religion/culture, settlers, workers (already given) etc.... alot of the micromanagement has 
 been removed which makes the experience that much more entertaining as alot of things really take 
 care of themselves. I gotta tell ya this game moves fast!!
  
  It didn't take long for my culture to spread (and it will quickly) for the other cities to fall 
 in love with my empire and they will join without a fight. If culture doesn't work you can always 
 use military might and in the Chieftain Difficulty you'll have a tank ready to go before they evolve 
 into a threat of any kind (ie; a group of warriors VS. one tank= no contest) you'll be taking over 
 cities left and right.
  
  What's cool is the cartoony characters really add something whimsical about the whole thing. It 
 fits so to speak. Having your advisors pop in to tell you how well you are doing or basically chastise 
 you for trying to go to war with a civilization that did absolutely nothing to start conflict ( 
 I found that if you have Democracy this will happen every time but, try Communism heh no stopping 
 you then. All in all the characters are very helpful and even evolve as time goes on.
  
  What I like as well is you can group military units into groups of 3 which I find to be helpful 
 as well. It'll sure to be a key to your military victory should you choose that path (and let's 
 face it I LOVED grouping 3 battleships to destroy one little pathetic crusier from the opposing 
 forces)
  
  I enjoyed watching my cities grow and you can actually see what's in them right on the screen. 
 Did you build the Hanging Gardens? you'll see it if you choose the city in which it was built as 
 well as your granary, aqueduct, etc.... there is also a THRONE ROOM where different civilization 
 give you gifts such as oh, 12 dancing bears, 10 bakers, 14 jugglers (ex:) and you can view them 
 at your leisure. It is pretty amusing but, doesn't add much to the game.
  
  The game loves war. No defensive pacts can be made BUT you can buy another civilization to attack 
 another meaning you ask how they feel about say Genghis Khan and they give you a price choose this 
 option and they will attack. It doesn't take much to piss these leaders off. Refuse even the slightest 
 thing and they'll say basically "okay, I'll hold off for now" do it again and WAR! they keep coming 
 too so it is best to have a GREAT military to defend your cities.
  
  You can win the game in many ways from DOMINATION, TECHNICAL, SPACE RACE, CULTURE, and once you 
 do it in any fashion GAME OVER. That's right there is NO -wait.. just one more turn- and that was 
 reason enough for not giving this game a perfect score. Had it had this feature I would have given 
 it a 10. I figured a way to extend the game somewhat and that is to save before a CULTURE victory. 
 You just save and then build the thing that gives you the CULTURE or TECHNOLOGY victory and win 
 the game. Go back and load the game but, this time don't build the very thing that ends the game 
 just focus on something else like say the SPACE RACE. I couldn't get around DOMINATION because 
 then the game gives you a set amount of turns and once you're locked in to that it's pretty much 
 over and you may have to start a new game. Oh well I tried....
  
  For me it's a bad thing/good thing that the games end quickly. For one I don't have to stay up 
 until the dawn trying to optimize my empire because it doesn't take but a few turns on easy mode 
 (Chieftain) or medium (Warlord) haven't tried the other difficulty setting yet but, if Warlord 
 is any indication I'm in trouble because the game can kick your @$$ which is a good thing because 
 you get your money's worth. Especially with online multiplayer and scenarios that are in there 
 (won't spoil those at all)
  
  If you love strategy this game is for you. I have been in love with this series since it first 
 started and I DO NOT regret this purchase the only regret I have is there is not enough hours in 
 my life to dedicate myself completely to this game. So, I say RUN don't WALK to your nearest game 
 outlet and ask for Civilization Revolution (PS3) you won't regret it.
  
  I regret this is not my best review of a game because I am exhausted but, could not wait to inform 
 you of how great this game is. In a couple of hours I'll have been up for 24hrs so, if you have 
 the game I hope you enjoy it and if you don't have the game all I can say is Sid Meier has done 
 it again: created a true gaming masterpiece.
  
  Lastly, I am pushing for a SEQUEL to this game. There is so much more they can do. Such as -wait... just 
 one more turn?!-
  End?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 8, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  Dont fell into someones foolishness, when she/he trys to explain that Civilization Revolution is 
 only for kids. its clear that so said human being, havent even played the demo of this game!! So, 
 Europeans already have this game, US gamers had to wait july 8. Civ Rev. is well done strategy 
 game, i love this turn based methode, and i suggest u to turn off those help windows to feel the 
 true joy of this wonderful gameplay. Choose your leader and defeat your rivals. 
  
  Visually it has pretty good character animation, good smoke effects, but still don't search some 
 next gen graphics from here. In the era of HDR it kinda reminds to me ps2 graphics.
  
  Great characters with popular the sims voice acting (kinda) . Audio quality is average but also 
 entertaining.
  
  Gameplay should be longer. Its sad that there isnt more free time, the game comes to the end too 
 fast, I wish I could build bigger/larger cities, an huge ones, also there should be larger world. 
 I want to control more characters including workers, armys should be bigger (in scale!!) (red alert 
 or command and conquer, anyone?) , again whats up with this space restriction thing?. 
  
  
  So, combat units are great, theres knights, archers, riflemen, tanks, bombers, and submarines. 
 theres also "great People", like artists, scientists, merchants, generals and spiritual leaders 
 that inspire a civilization to greatness, they provide a steady bonus of some kind to the city, 
 or they can be expanded to get an immediate and powerful bonus, they all have special ability and 
 settlement ability, forexample great artists/thinkers special ability is to convert a nearby city 
 to your civilization. or settlement ability when u settle this artist in a city to increase that 
 citys cultural output by 50 %. Theres also great builder, great explorer, great general, humanitarian, 
 leader and great scientist (my favourite one!) You are also able to research technology or ask 
 them from your alliance for certain amount of gold. Theres various government forms: communism, 
 democracy, despotism, fundamentalism,. monarchy, republic. theres even spies, caravans etc. U can 
 start war, whenever u feel to do some noise. And theres no point to rush to the war, u have to 
 be clever, and develope some powerful army. The enemy when is pushed to its limits also, begs for 
 mercy, then its totally up to u wether u listen this sorry ass, and let him/her live his pathetic 
 life, as u already unterstood I recommend u to crush your opponent. Anyway, u have to be enough 
 patience to get your hands on nukes : ) . Because as I said before it`s turn based game, and with 
 this u also get to 19th or 20th century to show whos the most powerfull ruler in the world!! And 
 its so enjoyable, and addictive gameplay, whenever u discover something u feel it to be well rewarded, 
 u will be happy. 
  Theres also multiplayer option, but l wasnt very interested in it. Whenever u feel singleplayer 
 to be too slow, u can also check out the play scenario modes, which lets u to boost up things a 
 little bit, like starting from medievil area, or from stoneage with technologys which you can research 
 faster than in normal play. Or fight the domination only victory etc. Belive me, it will keep u 
 interested.
  
  I like this game and i havent played anyother civ game before. Highly recommend u to buy Civilization 
 revolution!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wbrkr
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 7, 2008 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Ive had the game for over 2 weeks now and was very hyped up for its release.
  
  Mainly because its a form of strategy game on a console which is not something that happens often 
 anymore. I went out on day of release and got it from my local game shop for 40 which unfortunatly 
 turned out to be a waste.
  
  I expect the game to get good reviews as you dont notice alot of the things wrong with it until 
 you have played it for a while
  
  The core gameplay and graphics are decent. Its fairly in depth but not so much as the PC games, 
 the graphics look really nice and the combat plays out in a detailed way keeping you unsure of 
 who will win until the last man has died.
  
  There is alot to do in the game or atleast it makes you think there is by putting icons all over 
 every difficulty and every civ that you can turn to gold by winning a game with one of the four 
 victory conditions. there is also a big hall full of statues & paintings that you get for defeating 
 each race on each difficulty, the trophy will improve its color as the difficulty ramps up, for 
 example killing the brits on lowest difficulty will give a dull colored statue but beat them on 
 higher difficultys and its replaced with a gold one. One annoyance here is that the enemy civs 
 are always random its possible to never meet a civ in 15+ games and not receive the statue. If 
 i was trying to fill the hall on the harder difficultys i would be very annoyed after a while considering 
 how long the games can take to win.
  
  Overall though this is all cosmetic and you gain nothing from filling the hall but it gives you 
 something to keep replaying it for.
  
  Here comes the problems with this game and there is some big ones. One of the best parts of civ 
 was diplomacy and in this game it means nothing. When you encounter another civ they will usually 
 make peace but just for a limited amount of time they will always attack you eventually, and the 
 worst part is that the ai civs all act as 1 team they never ever attack each other. the only way 
 to force enemy civs to attack each other is by bribing them using diplomacy but this is often unavailable 
 because they will tell you the enemy civ is too powerful to go to war with leaving you stuck on 
 your own.
  You will find 3-4 enemy civs attacking you at once from multiple directions in pretty much every 
 game and causing great annoyance.
  
  Its obvious the ai is very poor when you are close to victory with economy/tech/culture. All the 
 ai civs will go all out war on you and try to stop you from winning which makes sense however, 
 when an ai civ is about to win they dont react and carry on as normal just attacking you only.
 
  At the lower difficultys this is fine but as you try the top 2 difficultys it becomes ridiculous, 
 the only hope of winning a game is too completely turtle from start to end having a few citys, 
 and this leads to another big problem defending.
  
  Defending citys is way too easy in this game and unbalanced. the basic ranged troops of each age 
 have very high defense and nothing can compare to them in attack. You will have walls on all your 
 citys which double defense, combine this with a couple of upgrades from kills that will more than 
 double defense again, you can then leave a fleet of ships at the side of your city and will usually 
 have a defensive general due to the ai sending waves of weaker units in to die. This leads to invincible 
 citys and makes the game become very tedious. All my games at the higher difficultys were won by 
 turtling i saw no way to win by being offensive as all the ai civs gang up on you.
  
  My game has frozen a few times also, 1 very noticeable bug is when you have a naval battle at the 
 north and south of the worldmap, the camera will zoom in to the battle but will get stuck someone 
 showing you a clouded north/south pole and forcing you to reboot. Its frozen at other random times 
 for me also which for a long game is very annoying especially if you were close to winning after 
 1-1.5 hours. Luckily it reminds you to save after each age so sometimes you might not have to start 
 over.
  
  i didnt play it online as i like to take my time on these sort of games and it seemed too long 
 for multiplayer i could imagine alot of impatient people just quiting halfway through games and 
 ruining it. People cant handle spectating on gta cops and crooks for 2 minutes, imagine them in 
 a 1-2 hour game.
  Overall the game has alot of potential and could of been great, If the game is patched making defensive 
 units nerfed plus an ai fix it would be a great game but until then i just dont find it that fun 
 to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ONLYDOD
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 18, 2008 8:31 am PT
Review:  Well first of all, I have to say that I haven't played any of the previous Civilization games so 
 I can't compare this to them. Anyway, I must start by saying this game is ALOT of fun if you enjoy 
 a good stratergy game. There are plenty of civilizations to choose from which all have their up's 
 and downs, giving a good sense of balance between them. The game is quite easy to get the hang 
 of and offers a nice variety of options to use in order to win. You could gather a huge army and 
 lay waste to every other civilization in sight, or you could use that army to defend your territory 
 while you get an ecenomic, cultural, technelogical or ecenomic victory. Every time you advance 
 to a new era it becomes apparent to you as the player that times have moved on, not just visually 
 but with the new options and abilities the age brings to your civilization. Theres a nice reward 
 system in place aswell, a series of comical 'gifts' including dancing bears etc can be given to 
 your civilization by special people which add a sense of humor to the game. Aswell as this there 
 are titles given to you after each game to show what you achieved during it. My only problems with 
 the game are that you cannot choose how long you would like each game to last, and if nobody achieves 
 any of the victory conditions within a set amount of time then the game ends and victory goes towards 
 the player who has done the best overall, which can ruin the sense of accomplishment you as the 
 player are seeking by trying to meet the victory conditions. The game also has a list of different 
 difficulties, so you can start of easy and get better the more you play and take on harder difficulties. 
 If you live in the UK and fancy a good stratergy game I highly reccomend you this as it comes at 
 a budget price of 30, I would happily have paid 40 for this but that lower price made the game 
 an even better option. A very satisfying, enjoyable and addicting experience, a game I will probably 
 beable to pick up anytime im bored waiting for another time to pass the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: extrasafeivy
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 17, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  First of all don't get me wrong, this is a very addictive game and it is very much fun to play 
 but it could have been a whole lot more. When I heard about the game and being a Civ4 addict I 
 was very much looking forward to it. I was thinking of new civilizations, improved graphics (even 
 though Civ4 still looks amazing) and on the whole a next game in the genre. How disappointed was 
 I when it seemed the game has taken a few steps back.
  
  First of all: Only 5 civs offline at any time : ( I very much liked the huge maps of Civ4 with the 
 20+ civs battling it out and thought this would also be part of CivRev
  
  Diplomacy: How awful is the diplomacy, constant threats from the other 4 civs eg give me your great 
 person and I will leave you in peace for so and so turns, once they are up they ask for more and 
 the only way to stop them is to send in an army before they realise your might.
  
  Victory Conditions: Best way is to get a domination victory, it is so easy and by far the quickest 
 route, you could try to go for the others but usually eventually it ends in a domination victory.
 
  
  There are many other issues like the lack of religion, lack of different map styles eg Archipelago 
 and so forth, lack of map sizes ( all ways the same size and maps repeat more often.
  
  Considering the PC game of Civ4 uses 1.7GB of HD, 1.8GHz, 512MB RAM on a DVD ROM shouldn't a PS3 
 and BD provide alot more? In my mind CivRev is probably half the game Civ4 is. I realise CivRev 
 is a console game and Civ4 is a PC game but I believe the PS3 can be just as capable if not better 
 then some PCs out there. 
  
  On the plus side though, it has nice little bonuses for getting a tech first, nice graphics even 
 if they are more cartoon but that really isn't a problem, I would recommend this game but not if 
 you are a Civ4 fan as it will be rather disappointing. Its good for about a week so maybe renting 
 it will be enough, games last from 2 - 5 hours, mmm can't think of anything else at the mo but 
 a 7 rating is all I believe it is worth, it is a personal opinion though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coruscant
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:25 am PT
Review:  Unfortunately for America they don't get this game until July, but that doesn't stop us Europeans 
 from enjoying the brilliant game!
  
  The game eases you in with a tutorial game on 'chieftain' difficulty and this is great for working 
 out how to play and how the game works. It gives a detailed explanation of what you should do and 
 is very useful. It does get a little tedious after a while however, with advisers getting in your 
 way every few minutes.
  
  To those who have played the Civilization series on the PC, this game is just as in-depth as its 
 PC counterparts and is just as addictive. The only thing that is missing it having to build workers, 
 which in many ways is good. You can still micromanage cities if you like, like having workers concentrate 
 on science output instead of production output, for example.
  
  The battle animations and visuals are smooth, colourful, ascetically pleasing and just as detailed 
 as in Civilization: IV. The maps are nice and big but they are mostly water, with nowhere near 
 as much land as in the PC games. This is not a bad thing as cities borders don't expand anywhere 
 near as much as before, even though you cities do improve at a similar, if not even faster pace.
 
  
  A game will take you several hours but is not as drawn out as Civ IV, with technologies hardly 
 taking any more than 10 turns. Another advantage is that if there is nothing to do, like you have 
 something that will take 9 turns to build, it will do those turns straight away: no waiting around 
 in this game.
  
  The only disappointing thing about this game is that the multiplayer takes forever. Not because 
 it's slow, it's just that your opponents seem to take forever for finish their turn. Sometimes 
 I was waiting a few minutes, which got very annoying after a while.
  
  All in all this is a brilliant and well thought-out game which works well on the console platform, 
 keeping the depth and addictiveness of it's predecessors. I would recommend this game to everyone, 
 even the most hardcore PC strategy game fan that would refuse to play a strategy game on console 
 because they think it would be terrible. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
