-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SingStar
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/puzzle/singstar/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Downloadable music is affordable and there's plenty of it.
 Excellent presentation.
 Strong offline multiplayer.
 Online community features are interesting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Only 30 songs included with the game.
 Shallow single-player options.
 No competitive online play.
 Can be difficult to follow music and lyrics at the same time.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May 23, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 51 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 273 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: SCEE London Studio
Genre: Rhythm / Music
Date: May 20, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you're willing to spend extra money on downloadable content, SingStar will probably be the only 
 karaoke game you ever need to buy. 

  Two years after it was first shown to the public, SingStar has finally been released in North America 
 for the PlayStation 3. It's difficult to say that it was worth the wait. After all, it is just 
 a karaoke game, and there are plenty of those already. However, it's a very good karaoke game that 
 should please anyone who enjoys serenading friends and strangers with unsolicited performances 
 of popular songs.  

  There are two versions of SingStar available: a $60 package that comes with two wired microphones 
 and a $40 game-only version. You can save some cash by using the microphones from the PlayStation 
 2 versions of SingStar if you've got them handy, but those of you hoping to get some extra mileage 
 out of Rock Band, Karaoke Revolution, or other USB mics are out of luck -- they don't work. The game's 
 tracklist is short but sweet, covering a wide variety of genres and decades. The 30 songs are performed 
 by their original artists, including: Blind Melon, Weezer, Amy Winehouse, The Rolling Stones, Dave 
 Matthews Band, Coldplay, U2, OutKast, Franz Ferdinand, Ne-Yo, R. E. M., The Pussycat Dolls, Warrant, 
 The Cardigans, and more. Per article 7a from the agreement forged at the 2004 International Karaoke 
 Summit, Britney Spears' "Toxic" is included.  

           Each song has a video that plays in the background.      

  Although the tracklist 
 contains many popular karaoke staples, it's unquestionably light on quantity, given that you can 
 breeze through every song in the game in about two hours. That's where the SingStore comes into 
 play. For $1.50 you can purchase a song, along with its accompanying music video, and add it seamlessly 
 to the game. At the time of this review there are about 170 songs available from artists such as: 
 M. C. Hammer, Spice Girls, Arrested Development, KT Tunstall, Jamiroquai, Elvis, Natasha Bedingfield, 
 Run DMC, The Hives, and many more, with additional content promised in the future.  

  You can't go head-to-head with anyone online, but SingStar does have a strong online component, 
 at least from a community standpoint. You can create a profile to display your high scores, and 
 upload audio clips of yourself crooning, along with 20-second video clips and photos if you have 
 either the PS2 or PS3 EyeToy camera. You can even add effects and adjust your pitch before showcasing 
 your "skills" with the world. These community features are interesting, and there do seem to be 
 some people who are really into it, but the quality of the submissions is questionable. Even the 
 content that users have voted as the best isn't very good and mostly features well-endowed females -- though 
 the clip of a guy in a full Chewbacca costume singing and dancing makes up for most of the terrible 
 stuff.  

  The gameplay is pure karaoke, which means that you sing, your friends laugh, and then you have 
 them sing so that you can laugh at them. All the while, the game tracks your score based on how 
 many correct notes you hit. There are three different difficulty settings, and you can sing the 
 full song or an abbreviated version. This is great for parties or songs such as OutKast's"Hey Ya" 
 that get repetitive. The lyrics are shown at the bottom of the screen while horizontal lines that 
 represent pitch are displayed above. This display method works reasonably well if you're familiar 
 with a song, but on large televisions the pitch and lyrics are far enough apart that it can be 
 difficult to watch both at once. The game also handles songs with rapping or spoken words in curious 
 fashion. For example, during Faith No More's "Epic," the spoken parts are listed as "freestyle," 
 and you can either say the words or do whatever you want because the game doesn't score freestyle 
 sections. However, in the "rapping" portions of the downloadable Spice Girls song "Wannabe," the 
 game shows a circular meter and scores you (rather inconsistently) based on your timing.  

  Though only one of the included songs, The Pussycat Dolls' "Beep," is listed as a duet, you can 
 sing any song with another person. Depending on which mode you play, you'll sing at the same time 
 or on alternate lines. You can play cooperatively or competitively, but don't get too competitive 
 when comparing scores. We found that the scoring would typically vary about three to five percent 
 between player one and player two when we would sing both parts into both microphones at the exact 
 same time. Minor scoring quibbles aside, the game is at its best with two or more players, especially 
 in the Pass the Mic mode, which lets two teams of up to four players each face off in different 
 competitions. You can go head-to-head individually or in competitive duets, sing short melodies 
 from several different songs in a rapid-fire contest, try to keep your performance bar above a 
 certain level for the longest amount of time, be first to hit a certain score, or just battle as 
 teams. All of the modes are enjoyable and add much-needed depth to an otherwise simple and straightforward 
 game.  

           Sure, much of what has been uploaded online is garbage, but seeing Chewbacca sing and 
 dance makes up for it.      

  SingStar's presentation is impressive. The menus are slick, easy to navigate, and the help menu 
 is always just a button press away. Even the online store is well designed and easy to use. The 
 snazziest aspect of the game's presentation is that every song has a music video (or at least, 
 footage of the artist) that plays in the background as you sing. As the singer, you probably won't 
 get to enjoy this feature much, but it makes being a spectator much more enjoyable. The streaming 
 music-video clips that quickly appear as you preview a song online are a nice touch, too.  

  A short tracklist and the fact that there are already a dozen other karaoke games out there are 
 the only knocks against SingStar. The presentation is top-notch, and the community features are 
 neat, despite the hit-and-miss quality of the submissions. The amount of premium downloadable content 
 available thus far is impressive as well. You might end up spending a pretty penny downloading 
 new tunes, but you'll probably never need to buy another karaoke game again.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (16 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sonderac
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:13 pm PT
Review:  My bad score is simply because there is no real "training" or anything to help figure out, it's 
 just on the fly. But the songs available are simply amazing, new and old, popular and obscure... 
 you name it. Singing with someone can be hilarious watching the wrong line, but once you find that 
 tone it's way above "Wanna Be". By itself, it's "OK", but add on Volume 2, ABBA or songs from the 
 store and there is a whole new angle. Now I actually know more words to songs than I did before, 
 LOL. Don't be shy, give it a try, and yes the little chi-wah-wah is annoying at first, but it's 
 not too hard to get past it. Just remember it's about pitch not tone, so don't go straining your 
 vocal cords trying to hit the notes. Which is again why I just dislike the lack of "training", 
 but I have my voice back so it can be done. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaaarmar
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  This is a perfectly good karaoke game, but it struggles with two major problems. First, they make 
 it exceptionally difficult to learn when new songs are available for download. Because they do 
 not list a download date and only cycle a dozen or so songs through their "new songs' folder, if 
 you don't check the sing store for a few weeks, you can miss an entire series of new options. Providing 
 release dates or, better yet, an email list sign-up for notification, would fix this problem. The 
 second problem is the choice of songs. They are very limited and it seems they are picked by someone 
 who has never gone to a karaoke bar. There are easily 100 sings that are karaoke classics ("I Will 
 Survive" is a great example, even though I hate that song) , but those are passed over for some 
 fairly obscure songs. Even more frustrating is that some very good songs are offered in Europe 
 but not in the U. S. It is fairly clear the SingStar is looking to provide the songs it can purchase 
 at the cheapest prices from the artists rather than the ones in the highest demand. That's a tremendous 
 disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smokz69
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 3:29 pm PT
Review:  yes i said it's a guilty pleasure. this game is fun. never thought that i would ever spend my mony 
 on a kareoke game buy my wife talked me into it and its a blast. the song list that comes with 
 the game are ok at best as there are only about 6 or 7 songs that i like but the amount of songs 
 that you can down load make up for this. to date i have downloaded about 30+ songs and i enjoy 
 rocking out to them on a regular basis. once every couple of weeks we have a few people over and 
 have fun playing this. its great for parties and small get togethers. there are songs for everyone 
 on this game and avalible for download as they cover everything from rock to rap (twisted sister 
 to run dmc) to alot of world music as well, some stuff that i would never know was out there till 
 i tried it. most of the songs are singable and some do offer a bit of a chalange but once you know 
 the song than its nothing but fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jason2guy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:37 am PT
Review:  SingStar brought us offline and online multiplayer which is great but the lack of so little songs 
 isn't very good. And at some songs you can hum in to them which is sorta cheap come to think of 
 it. Anyways it's still pretty acurate when you really sing into it. The good thing is that you 
 could also download more songs that you can sing with your friends. The competion against your 
 friends can get intense if the song is hard bringing your total score down. The good thing also 
 in this game is that instead of showing gaming animation on the game it shows a music video. The 
 game replay value is fair since there are some songs provided for you but not alot so if you play 
 all of them again and again then it won't be as much fun as it was before. If you like singing 
 a lot then this is the perfect game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovedbzgames
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 27, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  singstar for ps3 provides a mixture of tracks sure to suit a variety of different tastes, however 
 the songs can be frustrating at times.
  
  when singing into a microphone, whats taken into account is tone of voice, and frequency, so some 
 people can humm along to songs and still outscore some people with is frustrating, for players 
 who take the game seriously.
  
  having observed a group of people playing the game, one player was doing a fantastic impersonation 
 of the beach boys to the songs good vibrations, at it was beautiful to listen to, the other player 
 was talking in a normal voice in time to the tune, turns out that the good impersonator was considered 
 a novice, and the other player lead singer disappointing.
  
  sing star can be good fun to play with a group of people, if they are not to afraid to sing in 
 front of a crowd, yet the video clips could be better for play station 3 system, the graphics are 
 barely better than the other systems.
  
  the sing store only has a limited number of songs less than 200, so if there is a song that you 
 like, probability is that singstore will not have it available, new hit songs take months to appear, 
 the most recent songs available to download are more than a year old.
  
  sing star can be fun in short bursts more of a party game than a long time hit, don't rush out 
 to buy it, if you have the other sing stars.
  
  if you are a fan some of the particular songs on singstar it can be great fun singing along 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lukestar1997
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 16, 2008 9:21 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive when played for a period of time. It is a guitar hero 3 type game 
 but obviously you sing not play the guitar. The graphics for the videos when your singing are brilliant 
 .After a while on some singing games you get bored singing the same song over and over again. On 
 singstar there are a variety of songs some old some new so all ages can play and enjoy. If by some 
 chance you do get bored of the songs (which you wont) there is the singstar store that has the latest 
 songs which is useful when you here songs on the radio that you like for a pound. There are also 
 other singstar game for the ps2 which (if you have downloaded a chip into your ps3 like me) you can 
 play on your ps3. If you like music game this is the game for you, if you dont this is the game 
 for you as well or possibly guitar hero 3 legends of rock im not quite shore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  
  One of the greatest assets that the game has, surprisingly, is its presentation. Instead of loading 
 different screens to start a song, we're treated to a fluid menu system that you flip through, 
 much like a flash site. Unfortunately you'll have to buy the backgrounds, which is frustrating 
 with such great Eye functionality, but the default option pops and fits beautifully with the seamless 
 transition between menus as they flow in and out of the screen.
  
  To along with an effective menu system, Sony has finally implemented a useful, integrated Friend's 
 List option. Any time you're flipping through menus, just hit the Start button to see a few quick 
 link options to single and multiplayer games. However, the star attraction of quick link system 
 is definitely found in the ability to see you're friends' current status while still in-game, as 
 well as add people to your list while checking out their SingStar profiles online. 
  
  About. Damn. Time.
  
  If you're a star, and you need to sing
  
  There's not a lot to find 
 at fault with SingStar on the PS3. True, keeping with wired mics is still a bother, and there isn't 
 any online play to be found. However, the facelift, Eye compatibilities and new social networking 
 elements sets the game above other karaoke solutions on the Sony's system; nay, any platform to-date. 
 Playing on your own may be a bit underwhelming, but if gather up some friends, and download a few 
 extra songs, you're set for some entertaining action.
  
  Hell yeah:
  + My SingStar networking, and all that it entails
  + In-game Friends List (finally)
  + Fluid, 
 flowing menus and presentation
  
  Oh, hell no:
  - Wired mics connected to $400+ machine? 
  - Still online play
  - Apparently, the computer 
 is a better photographer than you: no choosing when you record content
  SingStar Game Page
  
  News (4)
  Downloads (1)
  User Reviews
  Cheats, FAQS
  
  
  
  SingStar Screenshots 
 (62)
  
  SingStar Movies (1)
  Latest Playstation 3 Reviews8.5/10 
  03/06SingStar Review (PS3) 7.5/10 
  22/05Nyko Charge Base 2: A Bright Review (PS3) 6.5/10 
  20/05Haze 
 (PS3) 8.5/10 
  07/05echochrome PS3 Review4.5/10 
  30/04NBA Ballers: Chosen One PS3 Review8.5/10 
  19/04Gran Turismo 5 Prologue PS3 Review8.5/10 
 
  02/02Tony Hawk's Proving Ground PS3 Review7/10 
  03/01Unreal Tournament III PS3 Review8.1/10 
  20/02Full Auto 2: Battlelines 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IdleSloth
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 1, 2008 5:15 pm PT
Review:  Is it me, or are games taking a plunge into innovation and coming together? Competitive Karaoke 
 games are pretty rare, with only two titles that come into peoples mind, Karaoke Revolution and 
 SingStar. Sure there have been many games that try to get people to "Step up to the Mic" but they 
 failed. Due to shoddy scoring and horrendous track lists. SingStar is a game with European roots, 
 with other games such as Buzz and EyeToy. SingStar came on the PS2 with 30 songs. Evenutally dozens 
 of titles were made. SingStar for the PS3 builds on the popularity of the game series and make 
 it even better. This game is a good mixture between karaoke machine and game, you can easily jump 
 into any song of your choice whenever you feel like it, You can also have competitions with friends. 
 This game is more sutited with friends then alone. Because how much fun can singing alone be? Of 
 course there is more to the game than just singing. If you aren't content with the 30 Memorable 
 songs on the disc then you can go online to the SingStore and purchase one of the 250 songs on 
 their. And if your bilingual you can choose from a variety of lanuages such as Spanish, Danish, 
 German, just to name a few. And after you get a few songs under your belt, you can head to your 
 online profile where you can upload photos and videos taken with your eyetoy, or some audio playbacks. 
 You can review and rate other peoples content. This feature makes a great feeling of coumminity 
 with the game, which, in its core, thats what makes karaoke, karaoke. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  Singstar has always been a staple title for the Playstation, and this is perhaps the definitive 
 most complete karaoke experience you could possibly have on any games console. The big pull this 
 year is the new download service and online features, which is a lot like iTunes for your Singstar 
 and intentionally build a YouTube alike community posting crazy videos and photos of one another 
 garbling away to Britney's Toxic. This is the start of something massive. The online works incredibly 
 well and the online store, since Christmas, has seen massive updates, that to rival Rock Band's 
 depth of DLC. It still needs a little tweaking, but on the whole, the online experience is what 
 makes Singstar feel fresh and exciting and alone worth countless praise. I like the visual style 
 in which Singstar has taken. It looks very modern and clean cut with all it's swish menus and sound 
 effects and relaxing music. It feels like some posh hotel lounge do with slaves feeding you posh 
 grapes and it's all very welcoming and further strengthens the package.
  
  The variety of songs on offer, on the actual disc that is, is debatable, as I, someone who doesn't 
 use Singstar commonly, thinks it's a brilliant mix of tunes like Gorillaz and Weezer, my mum, someone 
 who breaks out the mics with every waking oppertunity thought it was too modern and lacking some 
 "Golden Oldies", which I can totally agree with, but, singing Toxic is fantastically hilarious 
 when gran's round and is a worthy addition to the 40 strong tracklist. It all simply depends on 
 opinion, and my opinion says its the best Singstar line up since the game launched in 2005.
  
  There a few annoyances in the game which have been present since that 2005 installment which 
 you think that could have been easily sorted with a bit of common sense such as the fact you can 
 still mumble, you can still score big as compared to giving the ultimate performance of your life 
 with smoke and fire and flares, which is a bit disapointing and I hate the Rap Metre, as far as 
 I'm concerned it should be called the "Let's Talk a load of **** Metre, its basically pointless.
 
  
  Overall, online is fantastically enjoyable and well constructed and I can see it becoming a prominent 
 feature of owning a PS3 and is a terrific party games, however not the party game of choice, losing 
 out to Guitar Hero and Buzz! anyday but is still probably the most appealing and the easiest to 
 grasp out of everything available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triad79
Rating: 8
Date: May 28, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  hopefuly with new downloads it will make it a stronger title and more fun to play .with already 
 300 song to download Ive already downloaded 20 song that peak my interest. Only problem I found 
 is sometimes I have some lag problems with the mic and tried to use the games auto correction but 
 it was no help ! Went online to the fourms for some help looks like people are having the same 
 problem and seems to come and go. But they also say new download content will be avable every two 
 weeks and they plan to have about 100 more songs each month..... wow thats a lot ! But only time 
 will tell if that will be true ..... unlike Guitar hero 3 new content 3-6 songs every month come 
 that just sucks ! Well hope to see u online .. oh ueah check out the jack sparrow look a like singing 
 his heart out ..... its great that people know how to have fun with this game online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CBass217
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 26, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  Okay... so maybe I'm not the best singer in the world, but at least I can dream. Singstar, released 
 this week for the PS3, shows us that we don't have to be Enrique or Justin Timberlake to be world 
 famous. In fact, all you need is a web-cam and a microphone. Sony has really pulled through this 
 time on their promises, connecting the awful and great singers worldwide into an experience beyond 
 the realms of American Idol and into a new frontier. If you're like me, and only watch the first 
 "reject" rounds of American Idol, this game is jam-packed with online features that allow you to 
 view people worldwide that would make Simon Cowell cringe in his chair. I'll admit, I've contributed 
 to that group over the last few days, but thanks to my "stellar" performances, I've also reached 
 out to new friends worldwide who I've been sharing with since. 
  
  The features on the game range from solo act to battle to duet, so it's truly a must have party 
 game. The equation is simple and is as follows: Friends + liquor + Singstar = wackiness. And, if 
 sharing your drunken experiences worldwide isn't embarrassing enough, you can view your awfulness 
 in all it's glory after every performance and realize how truly ear piercing you sound. 
  
  The fun level in this game is a perfect 10. With online purchases and new songs arriving in the 
 future, this game will keep you rocking for a long time. 
  The game is also the most interactive game I've seen... so for that, also a perfect 10. The only 
 slight issue was some server clogging occasionally due to heavy traffic. This should be temporary 
 as the game was just released and is getting a ton of serious attention...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nvfigueiredo
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 9:43 am PT
Review:  I'm writing this before reading GS's review.
  
  I'll start by saying: Singstar is the best party game ever made.
  Period.
  
  Now, some details... 
 :)
  
  Singstar for the PS3 is "simply" an upgrade from old PS2 singstar games. However, the small diferences 
 cover all the problems found on previous iterations:
  - songs can be downloaded
  - "best" moments are stored on the hard disk
  
  Plus, some minor changes were made to the interface, 
 which is now slicker and smoother than ever.
  Finally, a great online community was built around the game, letting you upload your "finest" moments 
 and review other players hillarious performances.
  
  
  Now... the game.
  Singstar is a karaoke game. And that's it. But it's the greatest karaoke game ever made. And probably 
 the last! :)
  The "singing interface" is widely known: sing on time and on pitch and score points. Presto!
 
  Use a camera and you can watch your performance live on TV.
  Game modes are varied, but the one that truly is important is "pass the micro". A team of up to 
 4 players battles another, on a series of battles with different modes. Games are easily set up, 
 quickly started... and restarted.
  Videos are saved, pictures taken, blah blah blah.
  
  Whatever. Thing is: it's a blast. With or without alchool, even the shyest persons are atracted 
 by it.
  Everyone adores it.
  Replayability is infinite, with more songs allways available for download...
  
  The good side:
 
  - FUN
  - FUN
  - FUN
  
  The bad side:
  - Addictive.
  - Bad for the neighbours.
  - Expensive... you'll buy more songs than you'll ever need...
  - Medleys are a little repetitive.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  If you have a social life, buy it.
  This is a (THE) party game. It's made to play with friends. On 1-on-1 it's fun, but it's meant 
 to be played by many more... with 8 players, this game is just brilliant.
  Some will say that it lacks a "live online mode"... indeed, it could have one, but it would go 
 against the nature of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: badgerpower1
Rating: 10
Date: May 25, 2008 5:51 pm PT
Review:  This Game is just worth buying is a must buy for the year. I have all US Versions of the Singstar 
 series and I think that this is the best in the series and that is a hard thing to do. I like the 
 game modes, the songs, the online options it's just amazing. I didn't believe the hype till a friend 
 told me about it. it was just awesome. So I went out and bought it. And It was a really good experience. 
 the songs are just the right ones and there's an online store with a lot of other songs!! I don't 
 find anything in the game that is bad. There are a few flaws here and there, but they are not A 
 FATAL MISTAKE or anything like that.. Well... what else can I say about Singstar? It's the best 
 game in the whole Singstar series, (not to say that the others are bad versions) The graphics are 
 cool and the price for the songs is reasonable.. Well I'm going to go play singstar!! bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleBigGamer1
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  Hi. Im Casey and will be reviewing Singstar for the Playstation 3. The game is nearly the same 
 as the PS2 series with High Definition and a new modern look. The songs already on the disc are 
 limited to my opinion the only good songs are Mister Brightside - The Killers, All The Small Things 
 - Blink 182, Toxic - Brittney Spears, Feel Good Inc. - The Gorillazzz and Gwen Stefani - Cool. 
 The rest are pethetic to my opinion but they probably only want us to buy off the Singstore. 
 
  
  
  Singstore is a new feature on the Singstar Series and you pay $2.49 (Australian Dollars) for a 
 song on the List. On the List at the moment there are about 75 song (AUS at least) .
  
  Another Feature is MySingstar this is when you make a online profile and you can upload your own 
 videos, snapshots and audio from the songs you play offlne (Sing a song while filming it [PS@Eye 
 or Eyetoy] and at the end you can Save the Result and then upload them so everyone can see it and 
 they are allowed to rate your Video..... Or Snapshot or Audio Playback.. 
  
  Thanks, Bye 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxymandias
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 11, 2007 5:55 am PT
Review:  Game play is very much the same as the original PS2 versions however with much sharper video's 
 and perhaps its just my imagination but it does seem a lot sharper at spotting bad pitch.
  
  Menu's system has been completely reworked, whilst the original was very simple it was by no 
 means ideal. The new version is much more intuitive and forgiving of making mistakes. For instance 
 the original only remembered a single user name against each microphone. The new allows you to 
 maintain multiple and selection and reelection is extremely easy.
  
  I've been playing with my old PS2 Eyetoy attached and its all very amusing to see and hear my butchering 
 songs. Might be advised that drinking appears to make these things more funny then wince worthy.
 
  
  No disk swapping, although its not a feature that you notice once your mad the translation. I still 
 go back and use the original disks and imagine I will until my favorite songs are available.
  
  Online store is good.. 41 songs to date.. I've downloaded 14 new songs.. Good range of songs 
 old and new. Will be nice to see some more of the songs I've already got on my PS2 versions. Price 
 is reasonable.. Although I wish they'd at least given a discount for those of us that already have 
 purchased the songs. SD tracks are around 80 megs each.
  
  Only gripe I have is the stability and performance of the online store, which seems pretty glitchy 
 at present. Still once the tracks are on the PS3 there is no lag as there is no slow SingStore 
 service to get in the way.
  
  My advice is if you enjoy PS2 SingStar then this is a must buy.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: uklegendkiller
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 8, 2007 9:17 am PT
Review:  Cherry-picking the best elements of Facebook and iTunes, Sony has revitalised the evergreen karaoke 
 crooner for its PS3 debut, confirming Singstar's position as one of the best party games on the 
 planet.
  
  Although the basics remain unchanged  go out with your mates, get smashed, screech into plastic 
 microphones until the neighbours complain  Singstar on the PS3 now allows players to create online 
 MySpace-style profiles, where they can upload their best (worst?) vocal performances, record high 
 scores, and become virtual friends with other players around the world. Crucially, the admittedly-poor 
 selection of tracks on the disc can also be supplemented by downloading new songs from Sony's SingStore 
 at a knock-down price, meaning there are months of warbling pleasure to be had as new numbers are 
 added throughout 2008 and beyond.
  
  As the user-generated videos are subject to strict time limits, and the game's interface is often 
 awkward and clumsy, Singstar feels as if it was rushed onto the shelves to catch 2007's lucrative 
 Christmas market. But despite these niggles, it's still the perfect accompaniment for 'back to 
 mine' post-pub sing-alongs. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
