-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Skate
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/skate/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Trick and control system is unique and a lot of fun.
 Decent voice acting and choice sound effects.
 Community features make sharing your exploits easy and fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Unstable frame rate gets in the way at every turn.
 Some challenges make demands that are a little too specific for the analog trick system.
 Online events often clump too many skaters into too small a space.
 Load times and menu animations often get in the way of your skating.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.6, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 8.4, 1,327 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Black Box
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Sep 24, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Skate's analog trick system is revolutionary for the genre, but the game surrounding those mechanics 
 isn't quite as good. 

  Plenty of skateboarding games have come and gone in the years since the long-running Tony Hawk 
 franchise reinvented the genre. Most failed because they simply attempted to duplicate the arcadelike, 
 fast-moving gameplay of Activision's series. After running unopposed for years, Activision's got 
 some new competition in the form of Skate from Electronic Arts. At times, this simulation-style 
 skating game feels as though it was built from the ground up to be the anti-Tony Hawk, and aside 
 from both games taking place on skateboards, the two don't have a whole lot in common. This is 
 largely thanks to Skate's very cool control system, which puts all of the meaningful controls on 
 the controller's two analog sticks and triggers. It's an awesome system that makes tricks feel 
 more involved and entertaining. Unfortunately, you'll be applying this control scheme to a series 
 of challenges and goals that aren't quite as good, and an extremely unstable frame rate certainly 
 doesn't help, either.  

           If you mess this trick up, be prepared to see a color-coded list of the bones you've broken. 

  Skate puts your skater movement onto the left analog stick. The right analog stick controls how 
 you move and flip your skateboard to do tricks. For a simple ollie, you hold down on the stick 
 to crouch then snap it up to jump into the air. Kickflips and heelflips are accomplished if you 
 come up slightly left or right of center. Shuvits happen when you hit down to crouch, then roll 
 the stick around to the side and up to the top. These are the basic tricks, but they get significantly 
 more complicated. The triggers are used for your left and right hands, so when you're in the air, 
 you can use these buttons to perform grabs. Once you've grabbed onto the board, you can tweak it 
 around with the right stick for different types of grabs. It's an instantly intuitive system with 
 the depth to keep you going for some time, but it isn't perfect. A lot of the tricks are done in 
 extremely similar ways. So when some goals call for specific tricks, like a nollie 360 flip, you 
 might find yourself attempting the trick again and again, only to have some other trick come out. 
 This gets totally frustrating in spots, especially in S. K. A. T. E. competitions, where you have to 
 duplicate someone else's trick exactly to stay in the game.  

  Grinding in Skate is as simple as lining yourself up with a rail or curb, getting airborne, and 
 landing on the grindable edge. Well, it sounds simple on paper, anyway. In practice, you'll have 
 to really work to line yourself up because the default camera is a low, off-to-the-side angle meant 
 to duplicate the look of a dude following you on his own board, holding a video camera the whole 
 time. Your skater is large on the screen, meaning he'll block a lot of your view -- he doesn't seem 
 to become transparent often enough to let you get a clear view of the action at all times. Also, 
 Skate is very big on timing. The height of your ollies or other tricks is dependent on how long 
 you crouch and how fast you snap the stick up. It'll take some time before you're hitting every 
 rail, flipping in and out, or landing in manuals all over the place. The whole system is also purely 
 skill-based. You don't receive skater statistic boosts, unlock new tricks, or the like. Everything 
 is available right off the bat. The only stat that increases is your own personal skill with the 
 sticks.  

  There's a loose story to Skate's career mode. It opens with you getting slammed by a bus and going 
 in for surgery. This justifies the way you can reconfigure your skater's face and body type in 
 the typical EA style of analog sliders. Once you're back on your feet, you're out to get noticed, 
 so it's time to start recording footage and winning events. The different goals in the game give 
 you some variety, but you'll have to get good at all of them if you want to get to the top. Because 
 you're trying to get covered by two different skateboarding magazines, you'll have to complete 
 a lot of photo goals, which ask you to perform specific tasks on specific objects. Some of the 
 tasks are simple, like reaching certain point scores, while others will demand that you pull off 
 longer grinds, flip specific tricks into grinds, or land in manuals. You'll also encounter multiskater 
 competitions, such as timed battles for the most points, best trick contests, or slalomlike downhill 
 races. There are also free-form footage goals, where you're given a set of tasks that must be performed 
 within 30 seconds. The catch is that you can do these anywhere, so half of the process is figuring 
 out which part of the city is conducive to your task. Some of them require you to skate in no-skate 
 zones, which are patrolled by security guards who will push you over if they catch you. Some require 
 you to do huge grinds, do a lot of spins, remain in the air for 10 seconds, and so on. The film 
 goals are probably the trickiest ones in the entire game.  

  As you make your way through the game, you'll open up additional skate spots within the city, including 
 such indoor locations as the Plan B Warehouse and the X Games Stadium. Aside from entering these 
 indoor locations, you can skate around the city without seeing a loading screen. But if you decide 
 to warp right to a location, you'll see some lengthy load screens. The distance that you can warp 
 without loading also seems a little random. Some goals have you skate long rails or cover what 
 doesn't seem like that much ground, but if you try to warp back to the other side of the goal, 
 it'll stop and load. When you're stuck on a goal and trying it again and again, the loading becomes 
 really grating, as do the unskippable menu animations that pop up when you fail a film goal. This 
 all sounds like small stuff, but it really gets magnified when you're stuck trying the same thing 
 over and over.  

  In addition to the career mode, you can play several multiplayer events, such as jam, which is 
 a timed session that is won by the highest scorer. For these events, the city gets broken down 
 into smaller areas. A couple of jam locations are in fairly small areas, like residential-sized 
 pools. When the game sticks you into these spots and there are four players in the game, it just 
 becomes chaos. This is because there isn't enough room to skate and you're left constantly bumping 
 into other skaters, which isn't much fun at all. You can also play S. K. A. T. E., get into best trick 
 contests, races, and so on. The online performance can be a little spotty and seems to really depend 
 on the connection speeds of the other players, as well as your own. This means that one player 
 with a slow connection speed can bring the whole game down. In a game that's so focused on accurate 
 timing, it's pretty lame to randomly drop into slow motion. But when it's all working, it's decent. 

  The differences between the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions of Skate are a bit of give and 
 take. The PS3 version has slightly better control, solely because its looser analog sticks are 
 more conducive to fast trick snapping. The game has motion control support, which lets you steer 
 by tilting the controller instead of using the left analog stick. It's disabled by default for 
 a reason, as the huge dead zone and imprecise motion makes playing the game practically impossible 
 with it turned on. Skate is also limited to four players online, as opposed to six on the Xbox 
 360, which can be a bummer in some spots; but considering how crowded some of the areas can get 
 with six skaters, this can be a blessing in disguise. But any points the PS3 version earns are 
 totally negated by its awful frame rate. Whether you're playing alone or online, the game drops 
 frames all over the place when anything starts moving quickly. This is a very timing-oriented game, 
 and having a frame rate this bad really hurts the gameplay.  

  There is also a community aspect to Skate. You can use a replay editor to capture video footage 
 of your performances or snap screenshots at any point and share them publicly. These can then be 
 viewed through a menu in the game or through the game's Web site, which is nice because the person 
 you want to show your skating exploits to doesn't need a copy of the game to see them. These items 
 can be rated and commented on, which is a sharp idea that expands on the sorts of things that EA 
 has done in the past with Burnout or some of its sports games. The only catch is that, as of this 
 writing, the Web site is sluggish and pretty buggy, making it hard to navigate, as well as see 
 the best footage.  

  Visually, Skate has a realistic look to it that fits with the overall atmosphere of the game. The 
 skaters look good and the animation is great when it's running smoothly, though a few of the up-close 
 talking segments that show polygonal versions of real-life skaters look a little weird.  

  Like other sports games, Skate is filled with plenty of sponsored equipment and other product placement. 
 For the most part, it feels fine; getting sponsored by board and shoe companies is an integral 
 part of the game's career mode, and that part never feels too aggressive. But it crosses the line 
 in a few spots, like whenever you meet a pro skater. It shows that skater skating a line and doing 
 some nice tricks, but then it zooms up to give you a very deliberate view of his skateboard, trucks, 
 wheels, and shoes, flashing the sponsor logos on the screen all the while. Also, there's a weird 
 bit of reverse product placement in the game because EA and Adidas teamed up to produce some limited-edition 
 shoes. These are introduced and advertised in the game, complete with promotion codes that get 
 you $50 off them when you beat the skaters who endorse them. It's awfully blatant, but it's actually 
 pretty unique. It helps that the shoes are sort of rad. The game also downloads new ads for billboards 
 and other surfaces as you play, though there aren't enough ads, resulting in some cases where you'll 
 see the same stupid billboard 10 times as you skate up a single street.  

           After you edit your replay, you can put it online for others to view and rate.      

 
  The soundtrack is a really weird mix of music that doesn't actually play through most of the game. 
 On the default settings, music is ambient. This means that whenever you get close to a skate-friendly 
 spot where skaters might gather and actually have a radio, you'll start to faintly hear music coming 
 from the direction of the spot. If you like, you can set it to directly play the music, but most 
 of the soundtrack is a little sketchy, and the way the game opens with Booker T &amp; The MG's 
 "Green Onions" every single time you load it up makes you feel like you're turning on some awful 
 Jim Belushi movie rather than getting ready to play a realistic skateboarding game.  

  Aside from the weird soundtrack, the in-game audio is really great. There are lots of great skateboarding 
 noises, especially the way the wheels skid when you do powerslides or land hard and turn. The game 
 also has something like color commentary, which comes from the invisible kid who's "holding" the 
 in-game camera. He'll call out to other pros as you pass by, congratulate you on good trick lines, 
 comment when you stack and break some bones, or impatiently whine when you set the controller down 
 then walk away. His presence is pretty good and gives the game some personality.  

  While Skate has a handful of issues that hold it back, it has a ton of potential. It's a solid 
 first start for what hopefully will become a regular franchise. With some more refinement and a 
 few more things to do, this could probably be the best skateboarding game around. It's definitely 
 worth playing, if only to get your hands on the trick system; but if you're stingy with your money, 
 you could probably get enough out of it with a rental.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (103 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: doomdood123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 16, 2009 8:48 am PT
Review:  So the first time I played skate, it was about 11:30 at one of my friends' video-game nights where 
 we would play video games for about 15 hours and then pass out because we crashed from all of the 
 coffee, caffeine pills, and energy drinks (i was never one for dew) . Well, I had heard about skate 
 beforehand and have always been into skateboarding in real life and in the good ol' thps series. 
 It turns out that one of my friends had borrowed a copy for 360 and as soon as the halo 2 matches 
 were all done I fired up the first open xbox and started playing. The first hour was all about 
 getting my berrings, but i picked it up relatively quick, due to my knowledge of skateboarding. 
 I didn't play any of the story-line, but ended up playing for 6 hours straight. It was so addicting 
 i just couldn't put it down, and after about two hours i knew that i would have to pass out while 
 playing in order to put it down, which ended up being true. I have played it the same way almost 
 every time on the 360.
  
  When i got to play the story-line, i actually had more fun. This time it was on the ps3. The problem 
 was that i got extremely side-tracked and it took me about 10 hours to play through and i still 
 havn't finished it to this day. I have heard that after the story is over the game loses all of 
 its fun, which always discouraged me from beating the game. i personally like it better on the 
 ps3, almost purely because of the duel shock, which has been my buddy ever since i switched from 
 n64 to playstation. The graphics are the only other thing that really distinguish the two games 
 appart. 
  
  now that skate 2 has come out for ps3 and 360, and skate it on wii, i am anxious to try these new 
 ones (especially skate it, although i fear the disappointment that could arise) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lefevrered
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Skate; the original and the best...
  
  ever heard the saying, the sequel never lives up to the expectations? well, skate proves this true, 
 its the one that introduced the new anologue trick system and in my eyes, the one that made the 
 series. skate it for the nintendo consoles also use new original tricks schemes, e. g. the balance 
 board and are a lot of fun due to this. however, skate 2 involves annoying tasks where you bail 
 every attempt if you haven't set up the equipment properly. Skate, the one to buy for skating fans 
 everywhere... it even got me skating for real lol...
  
  If you enjoy this, do get skate 2 but don't be dissapointed with the new freeform tricks and ability 
 to move equipment around the skate parks. Also, the camera angle is better on the first skate. 
 It's not hard to see why it's preffered.
  
  10/10 cause i was in love with it after only an hour. i don't find it at all difficult to perform 
 complicated tricks and to be honest, it's a hell of a lot of fun.
  
  Lefevrered 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mad_bored
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 18, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  Skate is a new way to enjoy skateboarding at home. Most people already know that though. But if 
 you never heard of Skate (Which is hard to believe) Then you don't know what you're missing. Now 
 you control the skateboard with the analog stick. Flick it up and you Ollie. Way better then just 
 pressing the X or A button (Unless you like it like that) But Skate makes Skateboarding so much 
 fun you won't want to put the game down. It's not that hard ether. Instead of pressing O or B 3 
 times to do a Triple Kickflip. You just Flick it right or left and hold it there until you want 
 to land it and done. How simple is that?
  
  Also some people are probably thinking "Skate 2 is coming out soon why don't i just get that?" 
 because you should try Skate since everything changes in San Van (The City in Skate 1 and 2) in 
 Skate 2. It's not much anymore just $30. But you don't have to get it, I just recommend it. But 
 if you love skateboarding games I recommend this instead of Tony Hawk games. If they still making 
 them.
  
  Skate 2 in stores on January 21 or 23. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minimme
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2009 8:07 pm PT
Review:  Music: 9/10
  Great Variety in the soundtrack
  
  Sound: 10/10
  INCREDIBLE realistic skateboarding sounds, and epic stacking sounds, when your face hits concrete... 
 CRACK makes me laugh.
  
  Gameplay: 8.5/10
  Great gameplay, Great controls, Great Game, just missing a bit, ok a lot. No manual tricks, sort 
 of lip tricks, more like grinds that have stopped, no handplants etc. Most of these, if not all 
 of these, will be in skate 2, can't wait. You start out skating with this cheesy video where you 
 get hit by a truck, you just get out of hospital when you customize your self, then your out getting 
 noticed, you get coverage in real magazines; thrasher and Skateboard mag. And befriend a couple 
 of pro's and camera-men on the way, eventually you get to the mega ramp which is mad fun. Online 
 is pretty good except quite laggy. Great game overall though, just missing things.
  
  Graphics: 9.5/10
  I love the style of the graphics in this game, so refreshing after playing 
 a lot of Tony Hawks (there new games suck by the way) .
  
  Replay Value: 8.8/10
  
  Value: 9.0/10
  
  PROS:
  Graphics
  Sound
  Flickit controls
  Realism
  
  CONS:
  
 can't play for ages
  missing a lot 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyingv16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The controls are very weird to learn at first, just to ollie, it takes a few tries to get it down. 
 But once you get past the tutorial and start the game, it gets pretty addictive. There are a vast 
 number of challenges including the X games and many other pro challenges where they ask you to 
 do very specific tricks such as a 360 flip to a crooked grind. the game can get very frusterating 
 at times, like when you are doing video challenges and some pro challenges. The one big thing that 
 really ruins the game is the online play (which I dont use very often) . When you start the game, 
 it glitches a lot and especially when you are doing death runs. You are going at high speeds, about 
 to finish first... then the game stops, and two other skaters pass you, and you lose. Other then 
 that though, the game is addicting, and hard to stop playing, even after you beat it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 16, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  when i heard of skate i thought it would be another really gay tony hawk type jump over a huge 
 mountain and mauel but it isnt it is the funnest skateboard game ever. skate is super super awesome 
 it has the most realistic contorls i have ever seen though it has a few minoer problems llike in 
 some skate board company decks there are only like 2 good ones and your skater has the same face 
 most of the time in create a skater everytime i look on youtube videos of skate my guy looks the 
 same as like 50 people on there. also in the x360 version i heard theres like a ton of glithes 
 in my ps3 there only been actualy good skaters like jason dill and pj ladd also the map is freakin 
 huge. hopefully the 2 skate will be way better beacause it probaly will be cause eric koston is 
 back and u can move benches and hippe jumps which is so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazbox360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Wow, this game is good.
  Wait, in fact its great, amazing. The greatest skating game ever. I was gettin tired of the lack 
 of realism in the Tony Hawks series, and I was losing faith in nethersoft to deliver a great skating 
 game. What great timing for EA to bring out a new series in skating games, a revolution, maybe. 
 This game is called Skate. This game features such pro skaters as Danny Way and Paul Rodrigues 
 and has an innovative original control system called 'flick it'. This basically all the flip tricks 
 and variations of grabs ect are controlled with the right analouge stick.
  
  It works well for the most part, although when playing games such as S-K-A-T-E (skate's version 
 of horse.) the flick- it controls can feel a little imprecise.
  
  The game features the fictional city of San Velona, a skating paradise, which you will soon realise 
 after venturing around a bit. 
  
  You will pick up sponsors as you complete challenges and get footage together. There are some great 
 challenges on offer, such as pro challenges which earn you the respect of the pro skaters in the 
 game. Another great challenge is the death races available in the game, which are fun and challenging. 
 The weak point of all the challenges are the footage you have to gather by acheiving so many points 
 in 30 seconds. These are ok to begin with, but they can become very demanding and are mandatory 
 to continue with the game.
  
  Skating around and finding new spots is incredibly fun, also saving your amazing tricks and cringe-worthy 
 bails and sharing them with friends are a great touch.
  
  The biggest problem with the PS3 version of the game is the frame rate, it can be reduced almost 
 unplayably at times, but only for brief moments and it is infrequent enough to excuse this problem 
 almost entirely.
  
  Overall, this is the greatest skating game period. I cannot wait for the sequel on Jan 23rd, and 
 after playing this game, you wont be able to either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cody13_2012
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2008 12:15 pm PT
Review:  I got Skate the day I bought my PS3 and I was really impressed with the game. It completely revolutionized 
 the Skateboarding genre in video games. When I first played the game it grabbed my attention with 
 the very well thought out trick system, known as flickit controls. At first I fell much more than 
 I landed clean and rolled away, but I quickly learned the controls.
  The story mode doesn't have a lot of objectives but that is ok as you will try multiple times on 
 each challenge to accomplist it. You will find yourself playing around with the controls and skating 
 throughout the city anyways so the game will provide a large amount of entertainment.
  The online multiplayer is very fun and layed out well, but the party play isn't the best. With 
 your friends over you can only play the SKATE and Spot Battle modes. There is no split screen which 
 was a major dissapointment. 
  The gameplay is great but lacks several things. You cannot get off your board which makes it difficult 
 to get to certain areas, but it makes up for it with the session marker. The session marker is 
 a tool that you can use to save a start point for which your skater will respawn at when you press 
 L1 and up on the d-pad. I was dissapointed that the game has no flatland system for tricks such 
 as caspers, truckstands, and primos. I hope that they add this to the sequel. In the sequel they 
 also need to add a splitscreen mode with all the game modes that online play has and needs to allow 
 you to play online with your friends at your house on your system and against other players online. 
 If EA can fix all the shortcomings of Skate in Skate 2 then Skate 2 will be the best skateboarding 
 game ever, no questions asked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vagasplayer
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2008 1:07 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games iv ever played. Its up there with Zelda: OOT, Little Big Planet, 
 and Rock Band
  
  The controls are a little bit hard but once you get used to them, there the best controls you will 
 ever use (controls similar to Fight Night Round 3) Must buy game until Skate 2 comes out.
  
  Which will me soon.
  
  The game play is long about 3 days of game play. After that you 
 will just want to keep playing it. Iv had it for about a year now and still play it every day. 
 you will love this game especially if you are a skater.
  
  Its now like $40 in the store, and when it was $60 it was still worth every penny
  
  Online 
 is decent, they should have turned of the multiplier because a lot of people cheat with it. So 
 online not that much fun, that's the only down slide.
  
  So hurry up.
  
  BUY IT NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joegopher
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 19, 2008 5:04 pm PT
Review:  Ahhh finally a completeley realistic skate boarding game! No longer will you ollie and do a 1080, 
 no longer will you run into cars and just keep going , no longer you will jump 100000 feet and 
 land completely perfect. Now you got a authentic skateboarding expierience. It's a great game. 
 There are tons of skate boards and clothes to unlock. And tons of tricks to perform and fail helplessely 
 on. Now when you get blasted by a car it shows you what bones you break, sprain or bruise. I always 
 laugh when I crack my but bone. And for those hardcore skaters this fetures the Mega Ramp. Fun 
 to obliterate yourself and to master a 900 degree spin. A completely awsome game absolutly no reason 
 not to buy it. And the city you skate in is freaking huge not to mention. There is Old Town , which 
 fetures lots of benches and the Plan B wherehouse , Downtown , full of rails and staircases , Suburbs 
 which has a lot of backyard pools. This is simply fantastic buy it you won't regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigman01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  skate is a unique skate boarding game where instead of button mashing you use the right analog 
 stick to perform tricks. it has a large line of characters, who are real skate boarders. the graphics 
 are better then tony hawk games but, don't show the best improvement. i felt the game was fun and 
 brought a challenge to the world of extreme sports. starting a new style of game play. customization 
 throughout the game is minimal. when you get to decide on creating your character you get a few 
 different choices, but not much. and clothing is not a great selection either. customizing the 
 skate bored itself didn't have a big choice, which it honestly should have. 
  
  but what did make the game more enjoyable was the exaggeration in the rag doll physics. they were 
 so exaggerated that if you hit a curb your body would fly in ridiculous directions. and the sounds 
 that were made from the falls were sometimes gross and indescribable, which gave it a more addicting 
 surrounding.
  
  apart from that the game did not meet my expectations. i was left beating the game in under a 3 
 days. which should have been longer, but was a longer time to beat compared the tony hawk games 
 which are ridiculously unrealistic. but the creators have announced a sequel in the series. so 
 they should look at what they created in the first installment and go from there and make it more 
 interactive, and realistic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ldinatti
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  To me this game was AMAZING!!!!! I would like to get for my 360 and i watched my friend play this 
 on his playstation 3. AND THIS WAS THE MOST ADDICTING GAME TO ME EVER! There are really funny glitches 
 and VERY FUNNY MOVES YOU CAN DO!!!!!! My friend accidentally fell his character's butt on to this 
 other skater and IT WAS THE FUNNIEST THING I HAVE EVER SEEN IN MY LIFE!!!!!!! I LAUGHED UNTIL I 
 CRIED!!!!! There were also very funny things my friend showed me like we made this one character 
 very very very fat and kept making him crashing and doing other really funny stuff!!! And i also 
 wanted to make him look really gay looking like have a teddy bear and a kind of sunshine and rainbow 
 board and of course we didn't. BUT THIS WAS THE GREATEST GAME EVER TO ME and i say you all should 
 get this very funny and addicting game! So go to a store and buy it now!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: antman69r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:39 am PT
Review:  Skate has one of the most amazing trick control systems by using the left and right analog sticks, 
 which easily beats birdman's D-pad and button combonation.
  
  It has no blood so it's child friendly and they wont get freaked out if they bail ( and when dont 
 they bail!)
  
  When you start the story mode you see a video of a skater (you) being his by a bus. After you have 
 had re-constructive surgury. You want to become a big Pro skater. Through-out the game you will 
 meet new pepole, who can help you get into magazines to work your way up to go onto the front cover, 
 to get into the X games.
  
  But since this was Skate's first time out, its been carful not to make any risk's by not putting 
 as much real tricks as Tony hawk has, Plus it does not have split screen, you have to play after 
 one another.
  
  So overall it is a pretty good game. Lets just hope the Skate 2 is a wee bit more outgoing if you 
 know what I mean 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haydn780
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 11, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  GOOD STUFF:
  ok great graphics and a fabulous feal. Though you are limitted to the skate board (can walk on 
 skate2) you still have etreme freedom to roam around smashing your face into poles or back flipping 
 on massive jumps. the amount of clothing is great because you have alot of choice of what you want 
 to wear or skate. You would think you would put glitches in bad but the glitches in this game can 
 make it quite funny. The replay tool is fun to play with but does get abit "same old, same old" 
 after a while.
  
  BAD STUFF:
  ok the reason why its a 9 instead of 10.
  1. the last 2 or 3 missions seem to be almost inpossible and will deffinitly frustrate you.   2. the 
 loading can get annoy if your going back to a spawning point 30ft away.   
  MORE:
  the new flick it controls are what make the game so unique though the superior graphics also help 
 the game to get eye catching attention.
  
  
  over all its a great game to play but the mind boggerling frustration i swear could kill a man.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergamer7
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  
  I am back after months of being gone here is my review of skate.
  
  
  
  Where most games are simplistic enough to let players into the wild after a tutorial, Skate never 
 stops teaching (its own tutorial is simply a brief introduction to the unique controls) . The learning 
 curve is steep but rarely unfair, and the game design focuses on encouraging players to learn how 
 to play it and decide how they want to play it. It's a fundamentally new game -- a new type of 
 game, more importantly -- and it can't be separated from its unique mechanics. It's the kind of 
 experience you have to feel and get accustomed to in person to appreciate, and without that luxury 
 in criticism you'll have to settle for a description for now.
  
  All character movement is assigned to the left analog stick, recognized primarily through weight 
 shifting and body direction. You use the A and X buttons to push off with your right or left foot 
 to gain momentum (three pushes for maximum speed) , and as long as you're moving, you can direct 
 your character. The visual relationship between the skater and how you're controlling him isn't 
 quite what you're used to from third-person games -- due in part to the low-following, skate video-emulating 
 camera -- and it takes a while to become fully accustomed with it. All board control is assigned 
 to the right analog stick, and tricks are performed through dozens of specific flicking motions. 
 A simple ollie requires you to pull down on the stick so that your character ducks slightly, and 
 then flick it quickly upward to make him jump. Ducking down lower results in a higher jump, and 
 all other flip tricks are based off that type of movement. Flick slightly to the right when you 
 jump for a kickflip or flick left for a heelflip; depending on your starting point around the edge 
 of the control stick, where you move it to, and which direction you flick it in, you can pull off 
 dozens of different tricks. A difference of 20 degrees in your starting point can change the trick 
 completely, and it's important to not only recognize that but to make sure your controller is physically 
 up to the task. It's an unfortunate casualty of an innovative system, but having a tight, responsive 
 analog stick makes a noticeable difference in the precision of control. It's especially important 
 for manuals, which are performed by tilting the stick backward or forward slightly to find the 
 center of balance and holding it there. (It's tough to land in a manual, but it's a skill you'll 
 be tested on eventually.)
  
  A basic understanding of how the player and board controls work opens the door to the rest of the 
 maneuvers you likely associate with skateboarding. The shoulder triggers are used for grabs (which 
 can be tweaked depending on your player movement) , and grinds are executed by landing on rails 
 and edges at the right point in your jump. If you overshoot it or fall short, you'll wind up with 
 a mouthful of concrete, but once you're on the rail, you're free to realign your body for different 
 grinds and simply ride out the balance. Since your skater has a completely physical presence in 
 the game world, it's a necessity to be wary of the motions required for simple actions like hopping 
 up onto curbs and losing speed while going uphill. Having to ollie onto every slightly raised surface 
 -- lest you bail completely -- is one of the more nagging downsides to the realism, and unfortunately 
 makes it more of an effort to enjoy yourself while skating idly around the city. Having to be vigilant 
 about every last movement takes some attention away from enjoying the larger trick opportunities 
 at hand. The variety and subtlety of control wouldn't work without convincingly responsive visuals, 
 and even if you don't like the feel of Skate (as many won't) , it's tough to argue with its looks. 
 The animations tying the characters to their boards and tricks are a treat to watch as you see 
 their body weight shift and react to the surfaces they're skating on. Everything simply looks right, 
 from going down stairs to watching your body getting caught between a rail and a wall on a particularly 
 nasty bail. While Skate will undoubtedly encourage many to give real skateboarding a shot, watching 
 some of the more heinous injuries will probably turn a few people off as well. The details extend 
 to the textures and modeling as well, and it's a lot easier to care about what shoes you're wearing 
 when you can actually see what they look like (especially in the skate films you'll create -- more 
 on that later) . Curves and bends in the architecture around you actually look curvy (unlike in 
 most games, where curves are obviously constructed out of many straight lines) , and they are mirrored 
 in the animations of your skater as you roll over them. Marble surfaces are appropriately reflective 
 and shiny, while empty pools look like they're made out of the matte concrete they should be. Like 
 good film editing, the visual cohesiveness of the world is something you won't really notice enough 
 to appreciate, and it's clear that its creators spent a long time making sure of that.
  
  Following the ongoing theme of unflinching realism, San Vanelona -- the enormous city you'll spend 
 the entire game in -- simply feels like a real city, despite being an inspired amalgam of several 
 real-life locations. There's plenty of surfaces to skate without having to question why a halfpipe 
 was built around a Dumpster, and the vast majority of the city is open from the beginning of the 
 game (outside of a few locked indoor areas and locations outside the map that you need to earn) . 
 The suburbs are a bit bland, but you're rarely forced to spend time in areas you don't like. The 
 challenges throughout the game take you all around the city, and you'll get familiar with the best 
 session spots without having to search too thoroughly yourself.
  
  Between the aforementioned problem of having to be aware of every last bump and not being able 
 to get off of your board to traverse the world more quickly (in areas that are tough to skate) , 
 simply spending time cruising around the city isn't quite as engaging as it could be. It's relaxing 
 enough to spend time in Free Skate mode simply enjoying the design (especially when you turn off 
 the onscreen display) , but you'll likely tire of skating between challenges and inevitably resort 
 to zipping around instantaneously (despite 10 seconds or so of loading time) using the map. Pedestrians 
 don't help much either; while it's great having a world that feels alive, they don't get out of 
 the way when you need them to and can block an area you need to use for far too long while they 
 meander by (you'll find yourself knocking over the same businesswoman four or five times before 
 she's far enough out of the way) . The challenges that comprise the bulk of the game focus on improving 
 and testing your technical skill while advancing through several pro career paths: wall grinding, 
 tons of specific tricks and grinds, even learning to "pump" your weight to more effectively ascend 
 curved corners without losing speed. By setting a skate "session" with two button taps, you can 
 zip back to a designated start point with another two taps without having to realign your whole 
 trick after a failed attempt (though if you go too far away it will need a few seconds of load 
 time as well) . Some challenges take dozens of retries while you hone your technique, but the satisfaction 
 of flawlessly executing something complex after truly learning it is a thrill rarely experienced 
 in gaming. While most challenges confine you to a particular spot to complete it in, you are also 
 free to roam the city looking for specially designated spots to "own" and activating video challenges 
 to help advance through your career. You'll usually have a few open at a time, such as performing 
 three grab tricks, grinding 15 feet, and compiling 720 degrees of rotation all in one go; if you 
 find you're in a good area for a particular challenge, simply fire it up and retry it until you 
 nail it. They become quite challenging since each attempt is only allotted 30 seconds and you can't 
 bail, but again, they're all about simply a matter of learning a series of techniques until you 
 can pull them off -- even if it takes a while. It's apparently easy to discuss Skate without delving 
 too deeply into its refreshingly sincere (for the most part) portrayal of skate culture. Most players 
 won't recognize the pro skaters you'll meet in this game, but watching their introductory in-game 
 skate videos will give you an oddly believable impression of them (which is a testament to the 
 power and subtlety of the engine) . It's also easy to not mention the fantastic, hilarious live-action 
 intro film. Or the bitingly real sound effects
  
  360/PS3 differences
  A lot of fuss has been made of the framerate and graphical differences between the two versions 
 of the game; we didn't find it significant enough to affect our scores. It should be noted that 
 the PS3 version supports Sixaxis motion control for player movement, but it's awkwardly executed 
 and not really worth bothering with (which is probably why it's disabled by default) . Disappointingly, 
 the PS3 version supports only four players online, while the 360 version supports six. The 360's 
 rumble feature adds a nice tactile response to moving over different surfaces, but some challenges 
 are actually easier with it turned off. The choice really comes down to which controller feels 
 better and more responsive in your hands, and which version your friends are playing online. There's 
 a difference between the fun of pure, accessible entertainment and the moment-to-moment fun gained 
 through the constant satisfaction and reward of working for it; Skate clearly defines that, and 
 it revels in its opportunity to offer something novel. And dressed in an enormous, beautifully 
 realized city with inspired online and video functionality, it's a truly impressive foundation 
 for a new sports franchise. The difficultly will undoubtedly polarize, but as something wholly 
 new and unique, Skate is more than welcome.
  
  
  
  I have played this game for hours and hours over the summer and I recommend it very highly I find 
 it very enjoiable haha I give it an 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbabvi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  Skate is just plain fun. You will love this game if, you like skating games, you like open enviroment 
 games, you like games were you can break every bone in the human body. Beside from the awsome tricks 
 you can preform and the great controller set-up to were you feel like your doing the actually move, 
 it is also one hilarious game. Some of the ways you can injure yourself are just wrong, but at 
 the same time something you can't stop laughing over. After each fall it will tell you how many 
 bones you broke, how many bruises you recieved, and even what all you spained. Some times I play 
 this game just to see how many bones I can break. Besides breaking bones and feeling sorry for 
 your character there are a lot of other things to do. With a wide array of trick that even I have 
 yet to explore this game is definatly worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: panda350
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This is the best game i have ever plated, and i cant wait for skate 2. If you dont have this, you 
 should definetely get this game! The reasoni like it so much is because i actually skate, but the 
 awesome controls and great online, (except for laggy ps3) is the reason get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get it get 
 it get it get it get it! get it get it get it get it get it get it the story is great the gameplay 
 is awesome GET  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:05 pm PT
Review:  the online simply is not worth the time but that is the only major flaw in this game...... other 
 than that the story mode is defenitly not the best but still engaging and gets u wanting more, 
 overall amazing graphics, physics and controls....... best skateboarding game to date, not like 
 tony hawks where every wall is a quarter pipe.......... great for skating lines and combos, more 
 grabs and flip tricks than expected and realistic ollie heights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Reviewed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  THE STORY:
  
  The game starts off with you been in an accident. You then recover but need to learn the basics 
 of skating again and eventually learn to master it. Through this journey you compete in a number 
 of competitions, meet professional skaters and of course skate.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  The main thing that makes this game good and innovative is the control system simply flick the 
 right analogue stick in an assortment of directions to do various tricks whilst L2 and R2 grab 
 your board with X and square pushing the board. This control scheme makes you feel more in control 
 of your skater and board and just adds to the game play. It can also be quite difficult to master. 
 You need to continue playing to get better and as you continually improve you'll be able to land 
 better tricks. See where the realism comes in?
  The graphics and scenery are also something to behold as the graffiti shimmers, your t-shirt ripples 
 in the wind and your face smacks of the canvas.
  You skate in San Vanelona a skaters paradise. which is a fair size although not overly big. Here 
 you will find every thing you need to pull off the most impressive moves and the pain fullest bails.
 
  Finally there's the replays. You can record for a maximum period of 30 seconds at any point in 
 the game. Then when your finished you can either save it to the hard drive or stick it on the web 
 for everyone to see and rate. With a mass fan base now built it's highly likely your videos WILL 
 get viewed which is great for beginners and veteran's 
  
  THE BAD:
  
  To begin with the camera can be a bit dodgy at times. This results in it being hard to manoeuvre.
 
  There is also the slightly annoying fact that you can't get off of your board. This meant you 
 actually have to skate every where. So say for example you saw a really good place to pull off 
 a trick but it was at the top of some steps. You would have to manage to manoeuvre you skate board 
 up the steps. We believe you me that is no easy task.
  It is also possible to complain at the fact there is no multiplayer free skate. This being non-online. 
 Although there is 2 player offline this consists of the popular skate game 'HORSE' and others.
 
  
  THE REVIEW:
  
  The Best
  +CONTROLL SCHEME
  +RECORDING YOUR REPLAYS
  +THE SIZE OF SAN VAELONA
  
  The Worst
  -GET'S FRUSTRATING
  -MASTERING THE CONTROLL SYSTEM
 
  -SOME CAMERA ANGLES
  
  GRAPHICS - 8.0 - Great looking if a little 'waxy'
  GAMEPLAY - 9.0 - very innovative and it pays off
  LIFESPAN - 8.5- Once the game's completed there 
 is little reason to play again except to chill 
  
  OVERALL 8.5 - A brave attempt by EA's first skating title and it just so happens it's infect the 
 best skating title.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spideyeiteyman
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Skate finally gives you a break from boring, old Tony Hawk. It has new and much more satisfying 
 controls where you use the right analog stick to do your tricks. You get a great sense of accomplishment 
 after you land some of the tricks. This game actually takes skill instead of just button mashing 
 to get points. The features much more realistic tricks and abilities than Tony Hawk does. This 
 is coming from a long time Tony Hawk fan. The graphics are superb and amazingly realistic. You 
 actually go slower in the grass than on pavement. There are multiple customization options for 
 your board and character. The objectives are diverse and fun to complete like racing to certain 
 areas or doing certain combos. The game also includes a multitude of professional skateboarders 
 but most I had never heard of. The game does get a little tiresome toward the end, though. This 
 is a really fun new skating game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josh645
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  Its the perfect skateboarding game there is. Well that is un till Skate 2 comes out. Its so amazing. 
 The graphics are of the wall, just beautiful. I love the controls so that you have to use the analog 
 sticks to ollie and move around. It feels as if you were really skating. The game is so addicting. 
 The 2 player mode isn't as great as i thought it would be. It would've been much better if you 
 could free skate or trick attack instead of SKATE and Spot Battle. It doesn't really matter tough 
 the story mode makes up for everything else. I play it even after i've beaten it because it never 
 gets boring. I like the selection of brands you can choose from to customize your character. Like 
 the brand of shoe, the brand of board, and even the brand of shirt. The feeling of being sponsored 
 by each brand is really cool. Its really a true masterpiece. If your a fan of skateboarding games 
 its a must have for the PS3.- josh s. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keeponjammin08
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 1:43 am PT
Review:  Seeing the "professional" reviewers give this game a 7 makes me think I deserve that job. But they 
 will give tony hawks crap games an average of 8, even though it's the SAME DAMN GAME OVER AND OVER 
 AGAIN! No skateboarding game can deliver the satisfaction of doing something as simple sounding 
 as a kickflip to a nose manual to a nollie heel flip. You hear me? Not one. I've played every tony 
 up until project 8 because it was the same crap fest over and over again that I soon outgrew. There 
 are a few kinks in the game though, I'll say that. I gave it a ten to try and off balance the current 
 rating... I would realistically give it a 9. Everything about this game is awesome with the exception 
 of not being able to get off your board. Skate 2 is coming out and it will not only fix this but 
 it will give you the power to move small things around to give you that one of a kind line. I'm 
 mainly a pc gamer but this game makes me want to get a ps3... A ps3 because developers are going 
 to start making games for the ps3 first and then port it to xbox because it makes more sense. Feel 
 the pain you Xbots. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mayhem94
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  Ea Skate on the ps3 is overall a great game. Me, myself have been playing the tony hawk series 
 ever since i got the Nintendo 64 and it has been great. However as i got older i wanted a more 
 realistic game and Skate gives it to you. This game requires you to have patience because some 
 tricks are easy, while others can take a few hours. However if you work at it you can get really 
 good. I love that you can make your videos look really nice. Also you can find any ramp, rail, 
 or object that fits your style in the city San Vanelona. Not only that but there are many challenges 
 that you can find. The many sponsors in this game are cool. From the board to wheels, you can find 
 a wide variety. Also you can customize your trucks by being able to tighten the bolts. Overall 
 i feel this game is great to me. However if you don't want a risk rent it and then see. See ya 
 online 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lacrosse_G0alie
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 12, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  I once played this game for 8 hours straight. This game is insanely fun. The analog controls are 
 AMAZING. I also love the number of pro skaters there are to choose from. I personally think watching 
 Big Black ride around on a skateboard is pretty funny. And I have never seen Danny Way in a video 
 game, and he is in this. Come to think of it, there are like 10 skaters on this game i have never 
 seen in a game before. The story line is also great to play. But, I myself think playing with a 
 bunch of friends is the most fun on this game. It may be hard to play when you first start, but 
 after about an hour you should get the hang of it. And once you get really get at it, the game 
 gets a lot more fun. So, the bottom line on this game is GET IT. I think it is very fun and could 
 play it for hours and hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ali147
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 7, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  skate is very good for a skating games!!!!!!!
  its much more realistic than the tony hawk games,
  the controls are awesome i love it!!!!!!!!, just 
 kind of hard to remember the controls lol,
  there is good character customisation and a sweet map! great things to do and there are many games 
 in skate, films photo-shoots and SKATE which is kind of like horse when player 1 pulls a trick and 
 player 2 has to copy etc......
  i wish on skate 2 they would make it so you could get of your bored having to ollie up the curbs 
 all the time gets annoying for me,
  and you get stuck a lot and say you want to grind a rail you cant get up the steps you have to 
 skate round and then down the rail, very frustrating!
  the graphics are ok not amazing.
  i love many aspects of this game and i just hope you can get off your bored and have different 
 camera angles, i find the one you get is awkward to see whats coming, kind off looking at the skater 
 upwards from the bottom right.
  its a ok game nothing great deserves a 8.5/10 good but a little bit of work to get up in the 10s,
 
  thanks for reading,
  please give me feedback 
::::::

::::::
UserName: austin1012
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  well the tony hawk series has always been the dominant skating franchise for almost a decade, which 
 is pretty odd for a new skateboarding game to come out now. skate isn't the button masher the tony 
 hawk series is all about, but skate introduces the flick it controls which requires precision and 
 timing. which is a good thing if the camera would allow you to see the rail and direction your going 
 which is a bad thing sometimes. the best part of the game is that it's like a simulator, unlike tony 
 hawk proving ground which is basically a arcade skating game. well theres the typical gear and clothing 
 in skate like mystery zero and planB. the games multiplayer is what sucks because if one guys connection 
 gets a little slow everything becomes choppy. Also the online doesn't have free roam. so skate is 
 a enjoyable game if you can get past the multiplayer and new camera aspects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EnterChe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Let's get this straight I love Skate. The replay system is a revolutionary new device for this 
 genre. Personally I love the soundtrack. And to top it all off It's new analog system works better 
 (i think) than previous tony hawk games. However my god the technical issues are horrible. The 
 frame rate is not as stable as I would like. Yet I feel like this knocked THPS off of it's high 
 horse. The online is solid. Some of the tasks are too specific to the analog stick. Leaving you 
 frustrated and refering to the skating handguide. The voice acting and use of professional skaters 
 makes gameplay interesting. The story is kinda dry, but it's a skateboarding game. My favorite 
 addition is the broken bones index. Say you fall of a bridge, and hit a car. Well now it's will 
 show to what degree and how many bones you broke. The graphics are good, but not mindblowing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poodle_hat
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 3, 2008 4:00 am PT
Review:  Graphics : Pretty good graphics, whilst the tricks look pretty slick its also fun seeing your skater 
 stack big.
  
  Story : Pretty straight forward story, just do tricks to get shots in magazines. Then eventaully 
 unlock both mega ramps.
  
  Gameplay : With the flickit controls skating can be alot more enjoyable just skating around then 
 on The tony Hawk games. And the new camera angle makes it feel very realistic. Although its not 
 perfect, objectives where they tell you to do a set trick or grind can be very hard with the flickit 
 control system. And there also a few things more they shouldve put in the game:
  Ability to walk
  Create a park/deck mode
  More tricks (impossible etc)
  
  Overall : If 
 you have any interest in Skating you should try this game out. though not perfect, best skating 
 game out to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatchetKill
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 29, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  What are the controls?... That was the first thought that entered my head when playing this game 
 for the first time...
  Ahh but once you get use to it the controls are your feet!
  Skate tries to give you the real feel of skate boarding, and it does a pretty good job.
  You 
 wont see ten thousand metre grinds and five hundred foot airs that the tony hawk series gave you, 
 it will slip off a rail when tring to hold a grind on for to long or full flip you out if you are 
 trying to launch yourself into the sky.
  Many other skate game start out tring to give the real impression of actual skate boarding but 
 then usally get a bit unreal somewhere along the line.
  Skate seems to keep a hold a the real skater story rather than the Wow did you see what i just 
 done on that rail.
  Two thumbs up in my book to EA for this release... good stuff.
  Mostly I play game to get unreal, as do most other gamers, but being an actual skater myself the 
 tony hawk UNREAL series lost its Wow when it got to unreal and way to technical.
  I hope that if they bring out a secound edition they keep the same feel to the game without getting 
 to much so called Wow 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mangoslayer
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 28, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  It might be the best skating game because of its unique controls, but, that does not mean its anything 
 close to good. It is good, but it gets way too hard with the challenges and the flick-it control. 
 After playing it over and over again it gets very reptitive. ALL YOU DO IS MOVE THE JOYSTICK UP 
 AND DOWN. Its fun to get sponsors and stuff, but you get stuck a lot because it is too hard to 
 do some stunts, and it just gets overall boring. It is fun to buy your own clothes and customize 
 your own characters, but it does not make up for the repetitive part of the game. My reactions 
 are mixed on this game m ainly because it is really fun to play, but after a little while, it gets 
 repetitive and boring.
  
  
  Good- Unique style of playing, fun to grind and skate. Fun to customize your character and get 
 sponsors.
  
  Bad- Repitive, challenges to hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -JKO-
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  i havent played the full game, jsut the demo, but from what i've seen this is probably one of the 
 most innovative games i've ever played. the trick stick ads a realistic feel to the game, i especially 
 like the grinds in the game. You could go either way with the game, you either love it for its 
 unique game play, or hate it because you thought it'd be similar to tony hawk. But i've played 
 both proving ground and skate... and my preference is leaning towards skate. manuals is wat i find 
 to be the hardest game, but like mentioned in the game spot review, although your game skills dont 
 improve, your skill with the analog trigger will, thus making the game even better. theres probably 
 a lot more to be said about this game, i have yet to experience any bone breaking falls, and im 
 sure i'll be entertained for hours trying to mess up tricks off of high walls and drops. again 
 something that needs to be further looked into 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 22, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Skate started with my full attention, but ended with less than half of it. Its game play was extremely 
 revolutionary. Unfortunately, I got frustrated when I had to keep redoing events over and over. 
 In all fairness, I liked the X-games a lot. All of the obvious advertisement for brands and sponsors 
 got annoying very quick. 
  The hand motions required to do the tricks also made me angry; its not something you pickup. After 
 you put the game aside for a while, you can't start playing immediately and that pissed me off. 
 Online play in Skate was arranged like a race car game, you have to do an event. If you want to 
 play with your friends it is not that obvious, you have to pull open windows then track down your 
 friend, it's all horrible. A sequel of this game would be a bad idea. And to the the skaters who 
 played this game, you are SOL if you want to be like the characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d000d
Rating: 10
Date: May 11, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  seriously skate is better than any tony hawk game by miles, i mean tony hawk games are so unrealistic 
 but skate is so realistic like to do a ollie you have to flick the anlog stick up and if you then 
 flick it do da right hell do a kickflip but on tony hawk games it sucks cos all you to is tap x 
 then across and square. so skate is way better than any other skatin game cos it is also really 
 fun and got reallt cool pros in it as well as other stuff like bein able to go in the x games and 
 other tournments and stuff like dat. I mean like skate soen't have all the rubbish tony hawk games 
 have such as creating parks tricks and grafiti cos if you want a game where you can grafiti you 
 can just buy somethin like gettin up its just so stupid but skate is much more realistic, fun and 
 more simple so skate is the best skatin game EVER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Twitch27
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 27, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  Such a great game. Very realistic unlike tonyhawks where you can do ridiculous tricks. This game 
 just has such a better feel. And the skaters are much more old school and awesome. I love the ragdoll 
 feature and have spend so many hours just performing funny bails which is highly amusing.
  
  Totally recommend this game to everyone who skates asit opens yours eyes to possible tricks 
 and lines you havent done.
  
  Many occassions i have spent over an hour on one aweomse very well planned out spot just to get 
 the perfect trick. (Got the nicest 360 flip to Nosblunt EVER)
  
  The online feature is poor. i didnt like this at all. very boring. basically the only part of the 
 game i really did dislike
  
  My friends said they didnt like that you couldnt get off you deck. i disagree as isnt the point 
 of skateboaring games to do tricks on the skateboard? There really is no need to get off it
  
  I love this game and was really impressed when it first came out. I recommend it =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dualmask
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 21, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  I have always loved skateboarding games. I can't do it myself, but I've always been fascinated 
 by the act of standing on a board with four wheels, making it jump with you, spinning it, grinding 
 it across ledges and of course, the hilarious sight of someone bailing hard.
  
  I've played just about every skateboarding game that mattered throughout video game history; from 
 Skate or Die and 720 Degrees on the NES to 2Xtreme on PS1 and all the way up to the Tony Hawk games 
 across the PS1 and PS2. But until I played Skate, I didn't know how immersive a skateboarding game 
 could be. This game is truly the Tony Hawk killer.
  
  Eschewing the complex controls of the dominant TH series, SKATE puts things back in simple perspective. 
 You control the board's actions with the right stick and control the skater's body with the left. 
 L2 and R2 control grabs. You push (pedal with the feet) using the square or X buttons (for left 
 or right foot) . You brake with circle. That's it. But from that simplistic-sounding description, 
 you have the freedom to do everything real-life skaters can do and more.
  
  Pull the right stick down and flick it up to ollie. Reverse the command to nollie. Flick it left 
 or right for various flip tricks. Lean it slightly forward or backward to manual. Grinding is as 
 easy as lining up with a rail, leaping toward it, twisting the board the way you like and going 
 for it -- no grind button or command to key in. As you play, you'll begin to sense how natural it 
 all feels, even if you've never touched a skateboard in your life. It's breath of fresh air, with 
 a control system you'll spend hours just messing around with.
  
  Now, onto the game itself. SKATE puts you in the role of a nameless up-and-comer trying to make 
 a name for himself in the pro skating world. Your main goal is to sign up for challenges and complete 
 them, getting your photo and/or videos posted in magazines or online. There are also several things 
 you can do online in the game, though I haven't bothered to go into it myself.
  
  First, you get to design the look of your skater to some degree, including face, hair, skin color, 
 outfit, accessories, and the three parts of the skateboard; deck, trucks and wheels. You're forced 
 to play a male character though; something I hate. If I didn't like the control system so much, 
 I wouldn't have supported such a sexist game, but... the control makes up for it. Anyway, the clothing, 
 accessories and skateboard parts you can choose from are littered with product endorsements, but 
 that's the nature of an EA game. It doesn't always fit in most games, but it does here, even if 
 it is a bit in your face.
  
  Once you've designed your skater, you go through a basic tutorial (you can skip it) that teaches 
 you how to control things. Once you've done the basics, you get to ride around in a huge open-world 
 city to find challenges to complete, spots to own (by tricking around them) or just exploring. 
 The great thing about SKATE -- besides the revolutionary control -- is how you never feel limited. 
 If you feel like spending time exploring the city, do so, and pick up that film challenge when 
 you feel like it. Screw up the film challenge? Retry as much as you like, or quit and try later, 
 no pressure.
  
  Visually, the game is a treat. While it doesn't boast the best visuals I've ever seen on PS3, the 
 graphics are loaded with detail and everything is crystal clear. The framerate does tend to dip 
 in some crowded places, seriously sometimes, but it happens so rarely it's not a big deal. Still, 
 I imagine the 360 version is better in this regard and if you have the choice, get that version. 
 SKATE has great audio too; you get to hear the comments of onlookers as you perform great tricks 
 (or bail horribly) and your roving cameraman will greet pro skaters and friends as you pass them 
 by. The whole game has this immersive, real-world feel that makes it hard to stop playing.
  
  The gameplay is loaded with things to do. Many challenges await, based around doing certain 
 tricks, scoring certain amounts of points, or a combination. As you complete challenges, more unlock, 
 and more accessories to decorate your skater with appear. You also get to be sponsored by a company 
 as you go forward in the game.
  
  One of SKATE's most interesting features is the replay editor. You can create a clip of your last 
 few actions, apply some effects to it such as slowdown, changing the angle and sepia tone, among 
 others, to make an interesting shot of your great tricks (or most hilarious bails) . You can post 
 the clips online and show off, and the top ranking videos can be seen through the game's media 
 server. Some great stuff there.
  
  SKATE is not a perfect game though. As I mentioned earlier, I consider it a huge oversight and 
 a bit of an insult that you can't create female avatars, especially since you can see female skaters 
 riding about in some environments. The game lacks any form of offline multiplayer (split screen) 
 gameplay. SKATE for PS3 is definitely one of those games that can benefit from allowing the player 
 access to their own custom music playlists. The frame rate dip is rare, but a valid concern. And 
 the game definitely has a steep learning curve. I personally have a lot of trouble performing the 
 pump action to get speed and height in pools and half pipes.
  
  However, I do believe the good outweighs the bad. SKATE is the closest I've ever come to feeling 
 like a real skateboarder while playing a game. Hopefully EA's working on a sequel (and this being 
 EA, it would be hard to believe they aren't) that will address those issues and make a truly perfect 
 skateboarding game. For now, SKATE is more than enough to make me forget the Tony Hawk franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warbmxjohn
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  Ea Skate is a whole new take on skateboarding that doesn't focus on button mashing fury to do well. 
 And is actually a game that prioritizes on dong trick rather than gaining points. So wait... Its 
 a skateboarding game thats about skating? Thats sad to think that they are breaking convention 
 here. 
  
  The new and extremely innovative control are where the game really shines. Using the right analog 
 to control foot movement in a very natural manner that almost like its how it should have always 
 been. The left analog controls the body like spinning and pumping transition. R2 is right grab, 
 L2 is left grab and that makes for a very simple yet quite deep control scheme. Grinding is about 
 timing your ollie and positioning your body (just like in real life) as opposed to the rail magnet 
 triangle button... 
  
  With the story focusing more on skating than on wild antics you feel like the game is more about 
 skating that just the image. 
  
  Skate a game for skateboarding enthusiast that really showcases an appreciation for the art. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcmanus108
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2008 1:14 pm PT
Review:  i use to love tony hawk but now that i have played skate i can not go back to tony hawk, the whole 
 concept of using the anolog stick to ollie and do tricks revolutionizes skateboarding videogames. 
 also san vanelona is a huge city and there is so much to do the game never gets old, especially 
 considering you can always try and get on a new freeway. This game is so great, the only reason 
 i don't give it a 10 is because online play in it doesn't support wireless bluetooth microphones. Such 
 a great game, it is a must but for any ps3 owner. ( _ ) ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Skate is a good game, but most of the parts of this game are kinda frustrating.
  
  
  So the game starts awsome, you skate , then a truck hits you, ambulance comes and funny stuff comes. There 
 are alot of things in there like  and etc. The controls are pretty 
 cool but gets frustrating for completing some tricks with the analogs.
  
  
  Party play is a multiplayer , not really good as it seems ,but fine. Also game does look like a 
 complete bad attudide, like saying "Dudealll the time , gets annoying after a while .The game 
 is long , pretty much might take a 3/4 days too beat it.
  
  
  Controls: Fair (6.9)
  Story: great (8.9)
  Graphics: Outstanding (9.7)
  Tilt: great (8.7)
  Online/co-op: Uninspired (7.2)
 
  
  Skate is a fun game, but most of the parts of the game are pretty frustrating.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BTR3003
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Skate... great game for the PS3... the controlls are easy to master... and are totaly different from 
 the classic Tony Hawk Pro  Wasteland... Project 8... and Proving Ground. 
 This game gave an aspect of skateing that seemed so realistic. Ofcourse i don't own it... but i 
 have played it many times at my friends houses. I personaly just need the PS3. I enjoy playing 
 it and wish i could play it anytime i want... this game actualy grows on you and when you play it 
 u feel as if u can't put the controller down. Well thats what i felt when i played it. So all in 
 all Skate is a great game. Can't wait till Skate 2 comes out. Idk if it will be better than Skate... but 
 it should b good. Learning curve to this game is about 10-15 min. and once you master it, it becomes 
 a lot easyer and more fun as you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ricko1234
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2008 6:51 am PT
Review:  For the last ten or so years, Tony Hawks has been the king of skateboarding video games. Yes it's 
 competition has been limited, but that's not to say that had there been any other similar games 
 on the market, then it would have been toppled. After all even GS gave the second Hawk instalment 
 a staggering 9.9!
  
  So, the obvious question is, why does EA's Skate think it has what it takes to challenge Activision's 
 signature game series? Well for starters they have created an entirely new control system. Using 
 the PS3's two analog sticks, EA has tried to replicate the actual manoeuvres that are required 
 to pull off these various moves in real life. With the left stick controlling the player's body, 
 and the right, the player's board, combining the two in hundreds of different possible ways determines 
 the outcome of these tricks. It's sounds complicated, and, well, in kinda is. Thankfully however, 
 the game developers have catered for this learning curve with a beginner's tutorial and a career 
 mode that functions on the assumption that players will start out as amateurs gradually increasing 
 in skill until they are ready to compete in such events as the 'X Games'. 
  
  The gameplay relies on two main aspects: Precision and timing. Just like in real life, to pull 
 off a trick perfectly you need to execute the controls flawlessly with equally good timing and 
 positioning on both the takeoff and landing. EA does provide some slack, but really that's what 
 they're looking for (especially when it comes to grinding) . 
  
  The career mode begins with a cut scene of your character experiencing a horrific skating accident. 
 You regain consciousness in surgery and the Doctor basically asks you what you want to look like 
 when you wake up. This of course takes you to a separate screen where you create your skater. Next, 
 after a reasonably brief (but very useful) tutorial, you are pretty much thrown into this huge 
 unnamed city to make yourself a career in skating. 
  
  Along the way you will take part in photo shoots, filming sessions and even 'star challenges' featuring 
 such greats as Danny way, all with the same aim of trying gain coverage in the top skating magazines 
 'Thrasher' and 'The Skateboard Mag'. Though there is a fair amount of variety in these modes (with 
 tournaments thrown in every now and then) , they all seem to feel more like a collection of minigames 
 than anything else, providing little motivation to hike across to the other side of the city to 
 get to the next one. However the pure element of the skating itself is such, that you may find 
 yourself just roaming the streets for the hell of it, grinding benches and hitting hobos as you 
 go. 
  
  After your done with career mode there are several multiplayer options available to you including 
 online play with up to 8 people (depending on what mode your playing, numbers may differ) . This 
 more than holds its own, providing an almost completely lag free experience to those with a decent 
 internet connection. 
  
  Visually speaking, the game is an absolute triumph, with superb character modelling and even better 
 animation with some of the best ragdoll effects of the year. This is highlighted in the terrific 
 replay editor that allows you to relive, save, and even upload onto EA's website, your finest and 
 funniest skating moments. The City itself is stunning with wonderful arty scenery and incredible 
 lighting effects, reflecting off the buildings and cars they rush past you (or into you!) as you 
 make your way, through the suburbs into the downtown areas. Having said this there are a few graphical 
 hitches to look out for. The cars themselves for instance are not fantastically modelled, and suffer 
 from equally poor and unrealistic physics (stopping dead after travelling at 50mph for example) . 
 There is also not enough variety to the vehicles with taxis making up 1 of every 3 cars. Having 
 said this, on the whole the visuals in EA's Skate are top notch, but there are some definite issues 
 to be worked on in time for 'Skate 2'. 
  
  Sound for the most part holds up, with good skating noises and some great voice acting from celebrity 
 skaters (though they could sound a little more enthusiastic!) . However, the soundtrack is very 
 suspect, combing a complete mixture of good music (nirvana) and terrible music (Booker T) . Moreover, 
 the music is set to only play when you are near a challenge area, leaving you most of the time 
 with nothing but the sounds of your board and the city, which can be nice sometimes, but also pretty 
 lonely.
  
  Overall EA's Skate is a fantastically fresh and original, genuine challenger to Tony Hawks pro 
 skater. If it had only made a few modifications and added some more depth to the career mode, then 
 this would certain be (for me) the best skating game on the market 
  
  Graphics: 9.0
  
  Sound: 8.1
  
  Gameplay: 8.7
  
  Value: 7.4
  
  Tilt: 8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VinylSpine
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 5, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Right from the opening cinematic of the story mode, this game immediately feels completely different 
 from any tony hawk series game. There i'snt much of a story in this game, other than that you happen 
 to be an amateur skater who gets hit by a car. Who cares really, this game is not meant to have 
 a story.
  
  You start off the game in an excellent tutorial that basically runs you through the gist of the 
 basic controls. This takes a while to figure out and can be tough to grasp. As long as you realize 
 that the controls are similar to the real deal then it falls into place. As you progress you will 
 learn more from similar tutorials and as you play enough you can learn to do things like land huge 
 falls and hippy flip your board underneath rails. There is no stat progression in this game so 
 the more comfortable you are with the controls, the better you are. Simple as that. Style is everything 
 in this game.
  
  The story takes you through simple challenges to earn mag photos, videos and sponsors but in all 
 honesty the majority of your time will be spend free roaming the massive city of san velona. There 
 are hundreds of awesome spots to hit and even after playing for weeks on end it is still possible 
 to find a spot cooler than ever.
  
  The graphics are nice and simple, with an excellent camera angle focused on the board as apposed 
 to the character. It provides an emphasis on style which is nice. The frame rate does tend to drop 
 every so often but it really doesn't hinder too much of the play.
  
  The sound track is pretty obscure with everything from slayer to some bumb bumb bee lumb crap but 
 whatever, just throw on your own tunage and it's all good. The skate sounds are great.
  
  Other things to note are the incredible replay editor that allows you to switch up angles, lighting 
 effects and speed. You can even save your vids and put them up on the web.
  
  Multiplayer is really fun at home, grab a few friends and hit a huge rail or jump, there are a 
 few good levels but not many. However the good ones are great. A few more modes would be nice. 
 The online I find really stupid on account of everyone online focusing on point numbers as apposed 
 to really sweet looking tricks. Regardless playing this game on your own or with a friend is really 
 where this game shines.
  
  In summary:
  This game immitates real skating as well as a video game could, improvement could be made but even 
 without them this has been my most played game of possibly all time. If you are or have been a 
 skater, you have no choice, BUY THIS GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whp93
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  This game just destroys the Tony Hawk franchise, instead of the crazy telephone wire grinding, 
 12 floor building jumps and the 1080 spins from a quarter pipe. doing a 360 flip to blunt on a 
 rail would be a huge sucess. the game focuses on realism, and the feel of skateboarding while sitting 
 on a couch with the "flick-it" system, instead of pressing "right + square" to do a kickflip, you 
 will "flick" the right joystick into various directions to do different tricks. The game took away 
 the grind buttom too, so instead of pressing triangles and get sucked to the rails like a magnet, 
 you will need to line up with the rail to grind it. 
  The game have a few lags here and there, and sometimes odd physic glitches. when you do an ollie, 
 the skater stays in the air for too far from the side view (the default view looks alright) the 
 game also needs more famous pros like andrew reynolds, Rodney Mullen (even though they are with 
 tony hawk) , it would make the game so much cooler if there are in it. Also the create a skater 
 doesn't have a lot of options to work with. Sometimes the skate would fall off the board and travel 
 in the air randomly.
  It's an overall really fun game, kind of get old after a while, recommend for the real skaters 
 who knows who chris cole is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nelsv
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  When Skate was annouced I first thought, "great finally a decent skater game" but unfortunately 
 it fails to deliver in many aspects. There have been many attempts to great a great skateboarding 
 game most commonly known to the public the Tony Hawk Series of games. This game does what Tony 
 Hawk's Series doesnt do, elements of fun and excitement with its innovative trick and control system. 
 The System brings ease to your movements enabling you to preform the exact trick you want to. This 
 is the main, maybe the only plus out of the game.
  
  Visually, Skate has a great graffics from cars to the people. Some problems to note about the environment, 
 is the unreal factor. The whole skate world looks exactly like that a "skate world" , although 
 cars and people are included in the game, it still doesnt look real. More interactiveness with 
 the people and the surroundings would have been great and maybe the introduction of day an night!
 
  
  The Gameplay is ok but not great, the visual aspects and the revolutionary analog system wont save 
 this game from its verbal lashing about the actual gaming. Not being able to get off your board 
 and interact with the people and environment around you is a huge let down. Curbing is an issue 
 which i have seen affect many gamers in the game, generally disturbing the gameplay and the experience. The 
 mission based system needs a lot of tuning to make it more enjoyable, constantly search the city 
 for things to do isnt fun! 
  
  Online mode has a lot of problems that they really should sort out, the most obvious of which is 
 the over-crowding of skate areas. This needs to be addressed and sorted out in the title in the 
 series.
  
  
  The game has a lot of potential and is definately a step forward for genre. Theres competition 
 without the genre between itself and Tony Hawk series, lets hope they both push each other and 
 continue to move forward. We'll wait for SKATE 2 to find out!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 5:07 pm PT
Review:  For nearly a decade, the Tony Hawk series has been running unopposed as the only worthy skateboarding 
 title. EA's skate. was looking to change that last September, and for the most part, it succeeded 
 that goal.
  
  As opposed to Tony Hawk's, skate. is all about realism and simulation, instead of insane jackass 
 stunts. skate. uses a great physics engine, and flickit controls. Using the right analog stick 
 allows your skater to manipulate the board, just as a normal skater would. Certain motions made 
 using the stick, result in different tedious tricks. The flickit system is fresh, innovative, smooth, 
 and natural. It is the most perfect control scheme possibly ever in the history of gaming. No joke.
 
  
  San Vanelona is the featured city in skate., and it's full of sweet rails, and steep streets for 
 you to get cool lines off of. Of course, there are also plenty of cars and pedestrians to get in 
 your way, but it just adds to the organic feel of the world. Instead of grinding on a telephone 
 wire, you'll be grinding on a curb, or on a handrail. San Vanelona is wide open, with four different 
 subsections. The Suburbs is where you'll find the community center skate park, as well as plenty 
 of backyard pools to get your air on. The Rez is full of steep streets, with lots of jumps. Here's 
 where speed freaks will get their own. Downtown is the financial district, with 30 stair rails, 
 but also lost of security to try to stop you. Finally, Old Town is where you'll find all the skate 
 plazas, as well as the dry dam, where all the best races are held. The city is huge, and whatever 
 your style, you'll find something to fit you.
  
  Graphically, skate. is a gorgeous game. The lighting effects are fantastic, and the animations 
 made by your skater are seemless. Unfortunately, there are a few drops in framerate, and many of 
 the textures are blurry. You'd think that'd make the game hideous, but it really doesn't. skate. 
 has a great art style that keeps everything looking great.
  
  skate. isn't just a street skater, as there are plenty of places to get sweet air. The triggers 
 allow you to grab wither side of the board, and the right analog stick tweaks your grab in air. 
 Pressing the brake button can take your feet off the board, so you can do a christ air, or a no 
 foot air. The vert system is really deep, and just as feash as the flickit system.
  
  Jumping and grinding are really innovative and simplified. Flicking the right stick down then up 
 allows you to ollie, and simply jumping on a rail at a good angle will allow you to grind. It's 
 much more simple and realized than pressing a button when prompted.
  
  As you can tell, I love the trick system. Surrounding that, there are a ton of game modes to use 
 it in. Career mode allows you to create your own skater, and try to become famous. Throughout San 
 Vanelona, you need to get coverage in the Skateboard Mag, or Thrasher Magazine. Once you've obtained 
 the cover to each magazine, you get to go to the X Games. There are tournaments to win, and cool 
 spots to own, as well as pros to show up. All the challenges are very difficult, but very rewarding 
 to do. if you never give up, you will love career mode. The X Games are announced by Sal Massakela. 
 This is the best use of an ESPN license in the history of gaming. No Joke. There's also the big 
 air ramp at the X Games, which is really cool, and you'll get a ton of air here. If you get gold 
 at the X Games, that's about as rewarding the game will get. It will take about 3 - 6 hours to 
 do that, but you can still go out an unlock all the skaters and places to skate.
  
  There's a good online mode, with races and spot challenges to do, as well as playing a game of 
 S. K. A. T. E. against others. You can also do this offline in "Party Mode" There's a lot of ways to 
 utilize the controls in skate., and it is unbelievably fun to do.
  
  The soundtrack in skate. is one of the better ones by EA. There are over a dozen pros you meet 
 through the game, and they are all voiced perfectly. skate. is such an authentic game that way. 
 The actual sounds of skating are top notch, and were nailed 100%.
  
  skate. has very little flaws. The framerate isn't perfect, the camera is sometimes a bit clunky, 
 and the game can be unfairly difficult. But those are the only flaws. There you go.
  
  As for difference between both versions: The 360 version runs quite a bit smoother, and has better 
 coloring, but the Ps3 version is sharper. It really just comes down to which console you have, 
 and if you have both, then just flip a coin.
  
  skate. is the best skateboarding game ever made. There isn't enough good to say about this game. 
 It really surprised me, as my expectations were skeptical going into playing. Once I played for 
 awhile, i got sucked in. skate. is the most fresh and innovative idea in a long time. Not only 
 is it a great skating game, it also happens to be one of the best games of 2007, in my opinion. 
 Congratulations EA Black Box, you've won my confidence all over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baller10dw
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  Skate is awesome if you like intresting missions and fun controlls. You can't stop playing, because 
 you just want to get farther (and eventually you'll get to the X-games!!) There are missions that 
 you will need to pass to (obviously) get on with the game. Your main objective is to get to the 
 X-games by beating those missions. Video shoots and shooting photos are what you'll have to do 
 a lot. 
  
  The good: Skate has an intresting career mode, that I think goes on the good side. Basically everywhere 
 there is a fun place to just do some sweet tricks. The city has a lot of places to skate so it 
 won't be hard to find a spot to skate. The controlls are also fun, and really natural. 
  
  The Bad: Sometimes for your objectives, you'll have to travel a lot. The city is pretty big. When 
 you do your missions, it can be hard to do the exact trick that they tell you to do. The video 
 shoots can get tougher later on, too.
  
  Overall: Skate has a fun career mode with fun controls. It's really addicting and it has good controls. 
 It's a game that isn't spectacular, but should deffinatley get better later on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Acid08
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 1:34 am PT
Review:  When EA first announced that they were going to make a skateboarding game, the video game community 
 was highly skeptical. A lot of people thought that they would dial in a skating game that would 
 be basically a Tony Hawk clone. What ended up happening though, is a truly innovative game within 
 the genre.
  Skates innovation comes from its unique analog stick trick system. To pull off the tricks in the 
 game you flick the analog stick using the "Flick It" system. For example to pull off a kick flip 
 you would pull the stick down to go into a crouch position, then flick the stick to the right side. 
 Skate has a huge variety of tricks, some of which can be almost impossibly hard to pull off. All 
 of the other usual tricks are in the game like grabs, grinds, and manuals. Grabs are the only trick 
 not pulled off with the stick as they are pulled off with the shoulder buttons. Grinds take much 
 more skill and timing than in the Tony Hawk games. In Tony Hawk you hit the grind button, and you 
 automatically seem to attach to a rail. Skate requires you to time your ollie and to line up the 
 part of the board you wish to grind. The type of grind can change mid-grind by simply shifting 
 the position of the analog stick to move the board. The most important thing though is that this 
 all remains fun, even when the game gets slightly frustrating at the later challenges.
  The game progresses by giving you free access to the entire city of San Venalona to skate in. The 
 city is split into five different areas, and each have a very distinct feel and look with different 
 challenges. The progression in the game is handled by completing certain lines throughout each 
 part of the city. As you complete more lines, the more attention you get. You constantly have a 
 meter filling up for Skateboard Magazine and Thrasher. Depending on which type of line you complete, 
 it adds some to the meter. Once the meter is full, you do a shoot for either magazine. The lines 
 you must do for these are generally harder than what you hap been doing. Once you complete it you 
 select your photo and you get coverage. Once you complete your first few you get access to the 
 shops located in the city and start to get sponsors. Once you get sponsors for the various parts 
 of your board and clothing, you can compete in competitions and other events that earn you more 
 money and fame.
  That's where the advertising comes into place. In game advertising is a growing thing in the industry 
 and Skate fully embraces it. Sponsors are the obvious thing, so different skateboard companies 
 logos are plastered all over the game. T Mobile has thrown is their money as well seeing as a Sidekick 
 is your pause menu. While it's sometimes ridiculous, the advertising works well in this type of 
 game since sponsorships are a real part of the sport.
  The online component is where Skate gets really interesting. There is just normal free skate and 
 HORSE, but that's just the competitive side. The whole other component to the online is the Skate 
 Reel footage. At any time while skating, the game saves 3 minutes of footage. So if you pull of 
 a crazy line, you can just go into the menu and access the footage. with the footage you can edit 
 it by changing the speed, camera angle, filters, and sound. The video editing feature is very in 
 depth and you can do a lot more with it than you may think. Once you have the perfect footage you 
 just select to have it uploaded to your profile. Once the footage is uploaded, others in the Skate 
 community can look at it, rate it, and contact you to try to set up a match if they like what they 
 see from you. The same is done with pictures, you just choose one frame of the footage to upload 
 to your photo section. EA picks out the best they can find and highlights it. You can access all 
 this from your Sidekick pause menu, without ever leaving your game. Video editors have been around, 
 but they've never been implemented so cleanly and easily into a game.
  Skates presentation is top notch overall. The menus have their own flair to them, all in the skaters 
 style. The graphics aren't very mind blowing, but overall they look very solid. The physics system 
 plays a large part in the game, judging how the board will move, attach, and flip based on the 
 pressure you put on the stick and from where you take off from. Unfortunately the framerate isn't 
 the most solid thing. It doesn't dip too often while you're in the middle of a line, but it can 
 slow up enough to send you straight into an oncoming car or pedestrian. The sound effects are spot 
 on and each part of the board sounds appropriate with what material it's hitting. EA Trax has put 
 together a decent music list in the game, but most will probably prefer to just turn off the music 
 and play their own with the sound effects still on.
  Skate is a rare game in this genre. EA Black Box wasn't afraid of taking a chance on a genre that 
 is dominated by the annual Tony Hawk rehash. The result is a resounding success. The new fundamental 
 mechanic of pulling off tricks with the analog sticks works very well and stays fun throughout 
 the entire game, despite some uneven difficulty. The online is incorporated into the game like 
 no other so far and it's also a resounding success. Skate has risen the bar for all skateboarding, 
 or even all sports, games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 2:37 pm PT
Review:  Everything about this game is exellent, if you look at in terms of potential. 
  
  Graphics: Excellent. Everything looks like a real world, the characters are great looking, the 
 animations are near perfect, the lighting is great, and yeah nothing bad there ----except for the 
 fact that even though you got cars and people around, the world seems very stale and eerie, even 
 though it looks fantastic, there just wasnt enough life going on. night and day might have helped 
 - 8/10
  
  Gameplay: the analog trick system is really cool and i like it alot. It definitely could use a 
 bit refining, and the sixaxis controls could be implemented better. other than that though, not 
 being able to get off of the board is a huge let down. I crash into curbs constantly.- again, this 
 can be totally fixed in future games though. Also, the system of the missions and all that kind 
 of sucks. it gets boring having to search throughout the city on this skateboard for things to 
 do. i did realy, realy like how its completely up to you how you progress in the game and get better 
 and better- tony hawk is based on stats, this game is all you- like a fighting game 
  
  online is eh. they need to fix a lot of problems there. 
  
  
  this game is nothing but potential, 
 i like the direction they've taken it, its really the best direction possible, tony hawk is histroy 
 after this game finally gets its feet in a skate 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grosgrostas
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  Ok I was a big fan of the Tony Hawk franchise, up until the 4th one..
  best was the tony hawk 3 by a long shot but its true that it was becoming unrealistic for sure 
 !!
  
  Now new consoles new game '' Skate '' is the best around right now
  the graphics are almost perfect, very detailed lighting system love the 
  fall end of the day 
 feel to it !
  
  The town in which it takes place is an open world and is just huge! really makes you feel free... 
 the skating is much harder i find and more realistic
  but it makes for a more rewarding experience.
  of course its not as impressive as it use to be 
 and it take you more time to feel comfortable but once you do its great fun..
  
  I really hate the fact that the smallest thing get you smashing down like a dead puppet that's 
 really ridiculous !
  but the movement the feel of the game very real and hard , just like skating 
  The in game publicity 
 I don't find shocking at all I mean skaters are all about those brands and its an important part 
 of the sport so no problem for me there... all in all fun but not fun enough if you play it you 
 will totally understand
  I rented it for a week... I will get it wen the price is down 
  i can see the value of it .. a great skating game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofudan
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 10, 2008 11:10 pm PT
Review:  the official gamespot review rightly recognizes that the control scheme for 'skate' is a revelation 
 (as far as virtual skateboarding goes) , but whereas the review criticizes the game behind the skating 
 mechanics as being underdeveloped, the 'looseness' of the gameplay as exactly why i think 'skate' 
 blows the tony hawk franchise out of the water. compared to the tony hawk games 'skate' is almost 
 a simulation, and the simple act of skateboarding is so enjoyable that i easily forget that i'm 
 supposed to be achieving things or getting sponsored or whatever. 'skate' comes closest to recreating 
 the type of feeling that made me want to skateboard in the real world... i was never very good but 
 i enjoyed the simple act of skating around. the events and challenges do help to focus the experience, 
 but are woven in in an unobtrusive way. a game like this doesn't need an overbearing 'story'... it 
 just needs to let me skate around in peace, free to choose to do a photo shoot or beat some chump 
 at horse when i feel like it. the replay system is well integrated as well and adds a lot of the 
 game.
  
  there is room for improvement, however. while i recognize that the control scheme means that there 
 are fewer tricks that they can program in, the game really needs ground tricks and a casper mechanic 
 (casper flips, dark slides, underflips and the like) ... and please make sure that in 'skate 2' i'm 
 able to get off the board and walk up stairs or hop over curbs/barricades!!! but for a first entry 
 into a new franchise it's hard to get upset over what's not there as the game really is amazing 
 for the genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Skate is a really fun skateboarding game, But when you get stucked with some videos or get in the 
 mag. Gets really hard and frustrating. Though the opposite is the graphics, using real people is 
 a nice thing. But sometimes people look like comic book characters ( like when you enter a shop)
 
  
  So the game starts awsome, you skate , then a truck hits you, ambulance comes and funny stuff comes. There 
 are alot of things in there like  and etc. The controls are pretty 
 cool but it makes it really frustrating.
  
  Party play is a multiplayer , no really good as it seems but fine. Also game does look like a complete 
 bad attudide, like saying "Dudealll the time , gets annoying. The game is long , pretty much 
 might take a WEEk to beat it.
  
  So the whole plot is actaully and should be is the humour, (its funny , from my Point of view ) But 
 no , its the whole plot to be frustrated not fun.
  
  The controls are annoying , and some film, photos are frustrating. Asspecially the controls, but 
 the game is actaully pretty great.
  
  Worth buyying :Players choice
  Difficulty: Frustrating (like hard )
  Quick qote :Skate is a fun game but the whole plot seems 
 frustrating .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Ok, so Skate is an all new type of skating game.
  Rather than the usuall X to jump and triangle to grind system you actualy have life-like controls 
 that you have to work at to master.
  What also makes this experience a bit more thrilling is that tricks look and feel impressive.
 
  Compared to Skate, the tony hawk series may as well have been created by a 5 year old with no 
 fingers.
  now the THPS soundtrack is a bit better but thats jsut my pinion since i am picky with my music 
 but Skate does have a near perfect blend of music tones along with an ambient option so you can 
 listen to the sounds of teh street (in a musical way!)
  The graphix are awsome!!!
  Now the only problem is the difficulty issue.
  Unlike THPS, Skate does send you almost straight 
 into the deep end with best trick comps and filming challanges.
  Still, other than that, skate is solid game with great online features and plenty of replay value!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warpgiga
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:50 am PT
Review:  I got hooked playing the demo for PS3, the feel of the control scheme is fantastic, but very hard 
 to master! - Many tricks are done almost the same way, and that can be frustrating on trick challenges, 
 but you can always skip it and find another challenge, then come back when you are better at pulling 
 of the moves.
  
  The city is very nice, made for skating - there are people and cars moving about, serving to simulate 
 real life street skating, it's ok - but you tend to get very annoyed when the people wont move 
 out of your way on trick challenges.. (10 seconds is a long time to wait, if it's your 100th time 
 at a trick attempt, it kinda gets on the nerves) - but hey who said games are supposed to be all 
 easy and not get on peoples nerves! - It makes landing a trick all the sweeter!
  
  The one thing I am most annoyed about is that the character falls on the ground WAY WAY WAY to 
 much.. sometimes just slighty touching an object will cause the dude to slam to the ground, which 
 is to the point of crazy!!
  But you just need to get used to how the game plays, and you won't fall as much, but the developers 
 should have spend more time on making him fall less, than analyzing what body parts he injured 
 in the fall, since that is completely useless info, although at times amusing.
  
  Playing the demo I didn't understand why Gamespot had nominated it for "2007's most shameless sponsor 
 plug".. but playing the real game its to the point of vomiting how many sponsor deals they made 
 and how its infiltrated all over.. But hey it's a skating game, and skaters wear skaters clothes.. 
 But this is like a digital skaters shop, when u qualify for sponsorship it will show links to real 
 life websites where you can order the clothes for yourself etc.. So a but too much, but I don't 
 really mind it, it's just a shame I feel like a stone age ex-skater not even knowing many of the 
 skating companies or pro's anymore ;-)
  
  With all this said, I bought the game because of it's controls and so I wouldn't have to play the 
 demo anymore (it's confined to a skate park) , and have access to the whole city, career mode and 
 playing freeskate online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flawie
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  First off. Im not very into skating. I occasionally put on the Extreme Sports channel to enjoy 
 some tricks, I can name most of the tricks you can do on a board, I listen to some punkrock and 
 skatepunk and I find some of the clothing connected with the skateculture kinda nice and consider 
 it stuff I could wear on an everyday basis. But thats about it. I have never tried to learn riding 
 a skateboard and I find the Tony Hawk games to be some of the most frustrating games you can play 
 on any platform ever. Still I had ALOT of fun with skate. A game that can get anyone interested 
 in skateboarding. 
  
  Skate starts you off as a nobody. You cant skate at all and youre stuck in a little skatepark 
 where you get to learn the basics. But soon youre off to your first photoshoot and to the start 
 of your career as a skater. You will try to gain fame by completing public events, challenges, 
 photo shoots and by having your buddy record your best tricks with a camera and spreading the word. 
 You gain streetcred and respect and climb your way up to the big names like PJ Ladd, Danny Way, 
 Jason Dill & Jerry Hsu wich are all perfecly modelled in the game and they all interact with you 
 in one way or another on your way to skatefame and they all get alot of focus. You get to know 
 their personalities and their sponsors and what clothes they wear. And as if that wasnt enough 
 theres videos presenting them with real life footage in HD from the main menu.
  
  This is probably as realistic as a skategame ever is going to get. From the loads of real skaters, 
 real brands of wheels, boards, shirts, bracelets, glasses, hats and more to the way all the tricks 
 is very down to earth. Your not going to pull off 540 heelflips to a manual to a nollie 360 to 
 a nosegrind on a parkbench combo unless you practice hard and long just like in real life. Almost 
 all of that is of course because of the first thing people talk about when talking about skate. 
 The controls. The completely revolutionary controls. They feel so natural and intuative that you 
 wonder why no skategame has done this so far. After playing with these controls for a while you 
 will laugh and the pathetic attempt at skating that is Tony Hawk. Basically your left analog stick 
 acts as a control of your body movement, your right analogstick acts as a control for your board, 
 your left trigger is your left hand and your right trigger is your right hand, and thats all theres 
 to it. You do every skatingtrick in the book by combining movements of all these buttons.
  
  If you drag your right stick down and flick it up you do an ollie. This is the basic thing 
 that flips your board up into the air. If you drag your right analogstick down and flick it up 
 to the right really hard you do a heelflip. Combine this with pushing your left stick to the left 
 you do a 180 before landing. If your high up in the air this of course leads to bigger spins. Carefully 
 lean the right stick a tiny bit upwards to do a nose manual and then flick it hard and fast down/up 
 to flip out of the manual. Grab the board by pressing right or left trigger while flipping your 
 board to grab it midair and release the triggers before landing. All this requires alot of practice. 
 ALOT of practice. Just like if you were going to start skating in real life you will fall alot. 
 Break bones, get bruised and get back up on the board to practice some more. But once you get the 
 controls down and start to really get into the game if feels so extremely natural to do all the 
 tricks this way you cant do anything but cheer at the developers for coming up with this insanely 
 smooth controlscheme. Things like carefully pressing your left stick up in time with the walls 
 in a halfpipe to gain speed on your way back down to the other side of the pipe, just slightly 
 lowering your body on the way up the walls. Everything is carefully mapped to your sticks in a 
 way no other game has ever come near before.
  
  You will not pull off insane tricks in skate for a long while. You need to find the right spots 
 to do it, get the timing down to perfection and master your body and board. They make such a good 
 job to make it feel like a huge accomplishent to do an easier trick. Flipping onto a rail and grinding 
 it for a couple of seconds and flipping off will feel like a huge accomplishment after trying to 
 nail it for 30 minutes. The small things count in skate. Grinding the curb, jumping over a trashcan 
 or just randomly skating on the sidewalk doing some manuals. Its very down to earth, its everyday 
 skating wich you will get better and better on with hard training.
  
  You do all of your skating in the city of San Verona. An open freeroaming "GTA style" city with 
 events and challenges spread out over the entire city. The entire city is built for skating. Curbs, 
 rails, benches, sidewalks, highways, backalleys, supermarket parkinglots, the suburbs, playgrounds, 
 parking garages & gas stations. Everything can be skated and everything is free from the beginning 
 to explore, without any loadingscreens to interrupt you. So your own imagination is really the 
 limit here. If you want to line up an insane combo you need to skate around the city and find a 
 good spot where you think you can pull of a specific combo and be rewarded for it. The structure 
 is also there for those who wants it with premade challenges and places to trick. Youre not going 
 to mistake San Verona for a living breathing city tho. Its a playground made for skating. Its completely 
 dead. A couple of generic "copy, pasted" pedestrians here and there without any real purpose but 
 to get in the way and a couple of cars on the roads here and there. Thats about it. Theres not 
 alot of detail put into the city either. It feels very dead, pale and without personality. So never 
 ever confuse this for a "GTA on skateboard" because this city cant even touch Liberty City  la 
 GTA1. But as a playground for really making you want to find good trickingspots it works very well.
 
  
  Technically skate for the PS3 (Ive heard that the 360 version is waaay better) is a disaster. 
 One of the worst disasters in recent memory. Some people at EA must REALLY have had some problems 
 porting this to the PS3 and I deeply regret not picking up the 360 version instead. The framerate 
 is all over the place. Going from solid 60 down to 15, up to 23 and back up to 60 while your trying 
 to pull of a trick resulting in total failure. The framerate is so bad that it actually affects 
 the speed of the gameplay. If you start to trick to much or if you enter a big area you can count 
 on the game slowing down to a crawl and rushing back to 60 frames per second over and over. This 
 should, of course, not be happening. Its not like the PS3 cant handle it. The PS3 has so much power 
 it should be laughing in the face if skate but still it goes down to a crawl. Its a sloppy port 
 and a sloppy port alone. The game looks really good, dont get me wrong, but not THAT good. The 
 game has alot of filters working for it. The camera is pulled down to your feet and around you 
 is a kind of dark filter around the edges combined with a colored filter over the picture making 
 the graphics feel very "street" dirty. Textures looks sharp but the characters models could have 
 looked better. Sure they look acceptable but they are so "acceptable" theyre really not worth 
 noticing. The sound is, for the most part, excellent. The sounds of the skateboard and the environment 
 around you sounds good enough to be nominated for best soundeffects of the year. The same cannot 
 be said for voices wich sounds muted, low bitrate and scrambled. The menus also feel way to sluggish 
 and the menudesign feels very "meh". Yet enother thing with the graphics are the antialiasing on 
 objects on the distance. Its sometimes HORRIBLE. If you look at a phoneline from some distance 
 away it actually looks more like a staircase than a line. Madness.
  
  The soundtrack is excellent. Theres loads and loads of licensed songs spanning over rap, hip-hop, 
 metal, punkrock, indierock, RnB & classical rock tunes. Theres really something for every skater. 
 You will quickly make your personal playlist to get you in the right mood while trying to pull 
 of a jump onto a cab and onwards onto a mailbox. My personaly favorite song is "Hate Crew Deathroll" 
 by Children of Bodom. An insanely adrenalinepumping metalsong that has made me pull of tricks i 
 didnt know I could do.
  
  What really makes Skate worth playing tho is the online community. Uploading tricks and stunts 
 to a server and letting people rate them is something that works really well and something that 
 people really use. The game is always recording what youre doing in San Verona and you can pause 
 the game anytime and go back and check the last couple of minutes, take it into a clip editor and 
 then upload your clip. The same goes for photos. Once uploaded people will watch your tricks and 
 rate them. Theres toplists of most viewed and highest rated and so on and theyre all hilarious 
 to watch. Giving people a free roaming city, a skateboard and loads of time will result in alot 
 of insane clips to watch. The highest rated ones are not even skatingtricks. Its people glitching 
 and bugging the game or using the ragdoll physics that takes over your body when crashing to pull 
 of extremely funny things. People have really gone crazy with the uploading stuff and its very 
 fun both to watch and to try and pull of by yourself. You can seriously spend an hour trying to 
 crash into a wall the right way to make your body land on the bench behind it in a cool pose. The 
 urge to play around in the city gets a huge boost by this community stuff.
  
  The game has some dumb designmisses tho. First of all, you cant be a girl and theres no famous 
 girl skaters in the game.... yea.. do I need to say more? Well ok, so the female skatingscene isnt 
 as big as the male one but the fact that you cant even be a girl skater or the fact that theres 
 isnt one single girl using a skateboard while skating around the city feels kinda dumb. In a world 
 where were trying to even out everything between men and women this is pretty retarded. 
  The characters customization is useless. Theres like 15 sliders for your face to mold it to your 
 liking but it either ends up looking hella ugly or generic boring. They could have taken this away 
 completely. Theres a couple of hairstyles and beards to complement the worthless facemolding but 
 it dosent really do much. Accessorising your avatar is always fun but again I feel kind of restricted 
 when it comes to choice of clothing.
  
  Skate is a revolutionary skatinggame made by skaters, with skaters for everyone. Its extremely 
 down to earth and has great online functions. Its very addicting, the sandbox concept works very 
 well and it has a way of making you practice the game like no other game to nail that perfect trick. 
 Its to bad the frustration of always failing your tricks kinda takes the upper hand sometimes. 
 Its also a shame the PS3 version is completely technically crippled and that the game is very uneven 
 in many parts of its design. I guess the 360 version is the version you should chose here and if 
 Im right about the technial issues being gone on that version you can add a 0.5 (or a 1.0 if youre 
 in a good mood and really love skating) to the score Im giving it here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  Skate is a really fun skateboarding game, But when you get stucked with some videos or get in the 
 mag. Gets really hard and frustrating. Though the opposite is the graphics, using real people is 
 a nice thing. But sometimes people look like comic book characters ( like when you enter a shop)
 
  
  So the game starts awsome, you skate , then a truck hits you, ambulance comes and funny stuff comes. There 
 are alot of things in there like  and etc. The controls are pretty 
 cool but it makes it really frustrating.
  
  Party play is a multiplayer , no really good as it seems but fine. Also game does look like a complete 
 bad attudide, like saying "Dudealll the time , gets annoying. The game is long , pretty much 
 might take a WEEk to beat it.
  
  So the whole plot is actaully and should be is the humour, (its funny , from my Point of view ) But 
 no , its the whole plot to be frustrated not fun.
  
  The controls are annoying , and some film, photos are frustrating. Asspecially the controls, but 
 the game is actaully pretty great.
  
  Worth buyying :Yes
  Difficulty: Frustrating (like hard )
  Quick qote :Skate is a fun game but the whole plot seems 
 frustrating .
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 11:01 pm PT
Review:  I like this game... its very creative.
  The controls are not like any other skating game.... it is based around the right analog stick in 
 which you pull back, then shove it forward to ollie. 
  The controls might be challenging to adapt to, but afterwards, gameplay will be 5 times as fun.
 
  One of my many favorite things about this game is the color-coded broken, sprained, or brusied 
 bone feature. If you have a nasty crash, a screen will pop up showing you your injuries. It makes 
 it fun to crash.
  Also, they have this cool online feature where you can create a video or take a photo, and post 
 it for other players to watch. It is a lot of fun to watch other videos.
  Online isn't exceptional, but a GREAT hangout for friends, or making new ones. Its like a freeskate, 
 only with real skaters skating around.
  This game is great.... but you either love it or hate it, so rent it first just to be sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jusmurph
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 23, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  Remember the warehouse from TH1? There is no trick palace here, every trick you do you have to 
 earn.
  
  The game has the brand new revolutionary 'Flik-It' Control scheme where you use your right stick 
 to perform (n) ollies and various flick tricks. This is very good but the learning curve is all 
 over the place. 
  
  You begin in the tutorials and it doesn't take to long to pick up the general idea, until your 
 challenge is a game of S. K. A. T. E (kind of like horse) . Getting the exact trick off of your oppenents 
 can seem hit and miss.
  
  Also littered through the game are "spots" which challenge you to complete tricks of the designated 
 ramp or area to the a certain prescribed score. The problem is however that many of these are made 
 that much harder by the sequence of terrains it puts you thorugh just to get to the spot.
  
  Sometimes it is as simple as sloping terrain a few ollies and landing a grind on a rail you 
 can't see. Or sometimes its as annoying as skating through a narrow passage way and trying to avoid 
 pedestrians. If you knock over a pedistrian it takes them forever to get up and out of the way 
 which is just fustrating and boring making the process that much longer.
  
  There is some good humour in the game with a General MTV/Jackass era feel to how they approach 
 the game, and the game is generally enjoyable. 
  
  I still do recommend picking the game up if your a fan of genre if you can find it on the cheap, 
 however don't buy it expecting to play for long periods at a time. Its only good for short doses 
 unless you want the blood pressure of Homer Simpsons at age 65. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lord-Morzan7
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 22, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Like I said, I get mad a lot of the time with this game. It is completely infuriating doing the 
 same thing over and over, getting hit by cars during an awesome combo. Anyway, here are the pros 
 and cons.
  
  Pros
  +absolutely amazing graphics. Some of the best I've seen.
  +the trick system is fun and new. Gotta love the Flickit system.
  +getting hit by cars gives 
 some funny moments.
  +the Hall of Meat. If you have a really bad crash, it shows how many bones you broke.
  +very 
 realistic, compared to Tony Hawk games.
  
  Cons
  -so........ frustrating!!!!!! 
  -the Flickit system is new, but not perfect. Some tricks are so similar in motion, you have a good 
 chance of doing the wrong trick.
  -much harder than the Tony Hawk games.
  -steep price for such a frustrating game.
  
  If you don't mind being mad at a video game, you 
 might really want this and shell out $60. It's a good game, but maybe not worth 60. $30-40 seems 
 more fair. Rent it to see if you like it. 
  
  Graphics - 9.5, Gameplay - 8, Sound - 9, Replay value - 8, Tilt - 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtarmanrob
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 8:12 pm PT
Review:  I first saw a tech demo for SKATE about a month ago, and didn't think to much of it. I think the 
 first thing that comes to one's mind when they see a skateboarding game is "oh no, not ANOTHER 
 Tony Hawk..." that was my initial feeling.
  
  i then downloaded a demo to see for myself, a day later bought the retail version.
  
  in terms 
 of virtual skateboarding, i have NEVER seen or played a game with this much depth and realism. 
 its turned over a completely new leaf in virtual skateboarding history. This game surpasses Tony 
 Hawk's latest installments in so many ways, it makes Tony Hawk games feel like ridiculous and child-like 
 arcade games.
  
  The graphics in SKATE are excellent for a console, I have the pleasure of experiencing them in 
 full 1080p and can vouch for their best quality. I do however have to put down the most annoying 
 part of this game... the poor frame rate. At times the game is smooth as silk and gets the player 
 right in deep and involved, concentrating hard on finding that next line, busting that next gap. 
 Then... a stutter. Followed by what can only be described as FPS lag.. something i would come to 
 expect from a PC not a console. so that was a downer for me. The sounds in the game, mainly to 
 do with the board itself, are amazing and highly realistic. They honestly sound just like the real 
 thing.
  
  The control scheme in SKATE is IMO unrivalled. Its new, unique, has a great feel and interaction 
 with the gamer and really adds to the realism, something i feel ALL skateboarding games in the 
 past have missed. Gone are the days when ollie-ing over a dumpster involved a 900 backflip to 360 
 flip to nose blunt grind to 900 mute grab manual kickflip manual... i could keep going on. Now, 
 the moves are a LOT more realistic and rewarding, where performing such flips as the famous 360 
 flip is almost a challenge to land over a gap or even onto a hand rail.
  
  The story of the game was also extremely well thought out and executed, making the player really 
 feel like they are a part of this game, of this world. I actually had to go grab my skatey and 
 hit it up outside after playing this game, just coz after watching it i got the urge. Sponsorship 
 is a major part of this game however doesnt hinder the games overall performance or playability 
 in any way. You arnt confined to following repetetive and mundane objectives, although some of 
 the challenges and comps in this game involved excessive amounts of retries. well for me anyway 
 :) .
  
  My next beef with the game, is in fact the control scheme I so clearly praised above. It has also 
 lent me towards awarding this game the Most Frustrating Game I've Ever Played. some of the tricks, 
 mainly flips, and challenges etc are really quite difficult to master and execute, and a lot of 
 the time you get so into the game, you may flick the stick a little too quick, or not smooth enough, 
 and instead of performing an ollie over the new found gap, you dont jump at all and eat **** over 
 the curb. This game is very difficult to master but is one of the most rewarding when you do.
 
  
  Moving on to the stacks... the best I've ever seen. The player physics system in this game is really 
 something else. I havn't found any game as funny as getting baked with a mate, then playing SKATE 
 and completely wiping out over a pole you misjudged, watching the player eat concrete or pole himself 
 so hard you can almost feel it. It looks so real too.
  
  To say SKATE is a contender for GOTY is a huge over-estimation, but I feel that the series has 
 laid down the path for an excellent franchise that should continue to please gamers of all types 
 for many years to come.
  
  Good graphics, occasionally bad frame rate. Great sounds, awesome music, realistic but therefore 
 quite difficult to master. 
  
  I give SKATE 8.5 / 10.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zombieman666
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 5, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't realy sure if i new if skate was ganna be a good game. I first saw gameplay for it online 
 and i felt it looked to much like a sim and was going to be a tony hawk rip-off. I also thought 
 that it would be to simy but I can tell you i was sadly mistaken....
  
  The presintation... From the first opening seen in skate i could tell that i was going to be in 
 for a ride the rest of the story flows like your typical rise up from the tops but after the tutorial 
 you fell like in your in a real city...
  
  The graphics in skate are realy nice the hole city has realy great designs in the older looking 
 stone part of the town called Old town just looks beautiful and reminds me of my town in a way, 
 and even down town has just a great look to it and is just beautiful to look at. The character models 
 are prety good but when your character himself bails of his board its rather funny and laugh able....
 
  
  The sound all the voice acting is good and i love the sound track in the game its your tipcal type 
 of skate game sound track wich always has those songs that you here for the first time and love.
 
  
  The gameplay. Its self differs from the tony hawk series it uses the analog stick its self .you 
 flip the stick and it will do a tric but the game is missing some tricks wich is said but you won't 
 realy mind yourslef. some anoying thisngs tho is that the game has the view of some guy filming 
 you and it can be just anoying to try to land a freaking ral. the stroy mode itself is kinda like 
 tony hawk you will have to score a certain amount of points in certen time wich is kinda anoying 
 youll skate in some events get sponser and it jsut like tony hawk but its so much more fun and 
 feels new. some things i realy loved about trying to land something was in old town i was grinding 
 a rail and i landed in the road and just got smacked buy a car wich is just great and the parts 
 of town themslef were just realy fun to skate in...
  the downside tho is the character creation models i wish were just a little better ...
  
  The 
 multiplyaer is fun you can play skate or you can free skate. race your friends and other things 
 its fun but you will be playing single player alot and its nothing realy you need to check out 
 ... The skate real wich is this things were you can make your own videos in carrier and upload them 
 for your friends to watch
  
  value skate is a fun game and should be checked out buy all skate board fans and especialy if your 
 tierd of the tony hawk games...
  
  The presentation 9.0
  The sound 9.0
  The graphics 8.5
  gameplay 9.2
  value 8.7
  over all a 9.2
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderOWNS
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  Graphics
  Very good graphics. The City looks great. Unlike in Tony Hawk, it looks like a normal city, there 
 aren't any random kickers in the middle of the street. The tricks look how they are supposed to. 
 Overall, the game looks very good
  
  Story
  There isn't really a story in SKATE. But who needs one, it's a skateboarding game. The point of 
 the game is to get coverage from two magazines: Skate Mag and Thrasher. Your goal is to get the 
 cover on both of these magazines.
  
  Gameplay
  Unlike tony hawk, this games introduces a completely new control scheme. Instead of having to press 
 buttons, most of the tricks revolve around the analog sticks. The right analog will be your trick 
 stick. IN order to do different flip tricks, you will move the stick in different directions. And 
 to do grabs, you use the triggers and the analog stick to tweak your board. What EA has done it 
 great. However, it still needs a couple adjustments. The main problem is that you can not get off 
 your board. And in SKATE when you need to plan out your line and you have to find the perfect spot, 
 without walking, it can get very difficult to get to hard to reach places. Another major problem 
 is the frame rate. When you start going really fast and there are a lot of people around, the FPS 
 will drop dramaticly. And in a game like SKATE timing is everything.
  
  Overall, if you like skateboarding I would recommend SKATE over THPG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The-Juggernaut
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 23, 2007 11:53 pm PT
Review:  The thing is that skate is truly a revolutionary game with it's new Flick-it system. And because 
 of that really nice feature, it kinda kicks Tony Hawk's Proving Grounds outta the window. Although 
 there are a lot of minor things wrong with skate at the same time. One really annoying thing to 
 me were the insanely frustrating challenges you sometimes had to complete. For instance there was 
 a challenge for you to go from a FS 50-50 to a Tailslide in one single move...... it took me about 
 10 tries to get that just so that I could unlock another small area . The graphics in the game 
 are top notch along with the environment. The pedestrians in the streets seem to get distorted 
 when in replay mode, but that's not that big of a deal. The online skate community is another really 
 cool addition to the games composure with the added skat. reel feature where you upload your edited 
 replays for people to rate. It's kind of like Skatetube if that's what you want to call it. As 
 an overall skate game it does it's job, hopefully next time EA would make some more customization 
 options and a larger area to skate in. 
  
  P. S. Getting hit by cars seemed to be the humor in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 21, 2007 9:18 am PT
Review:  This is a real skateboarding game. Ever since i first heard of skate, i wondered if i would do 
 good with the trick system. EA did a wonderful job of using the right analog stick for tricks, 
 and making it more realistic. So basically, the story is just how to get up the skating totem pole. 
 You start out, you get on magizines, you go to a major event, and land up in a awesome skate park. 
 Great story, eh? Anyway, the pros here are alot better than THPG's pros. (It has more Canadian 
 pros than THPG, too.) Also, the sponsers are alot better than THPG. The graphics are top-notch, 
 and EA worked hard for the great graphics. They also made the online one of the best in a skateboarding 
 game (And even the best EA has ever done.) by focusing more on a skating "community." The soundtrack 
 is ok, but EA also brought some tunes from Mat Hoffman's Pro BMX 2, which i never heard from in 
 years. All in all, skate. is a fun experience, but if you are a newbie, this may not be the game 
 to train on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joshboy1991
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Who would of ever though that another skating game would come along and try to defy the mighty 
 tony hawk (kind of mighty) and with it's innotive anolgue usage, it sure did look liker it would 
 defy it, and sure enough, it does overtake tony in some areas, but only in some. With tony hawk, 
 the same game formula has been used over and over agian for several games, with minor changes in 
 each version, this system isn't bad, but it isn't great either, but one thing does shine out in 
 tony, and that is it's carerr mode, if skate had a cererr mode anything like this, it would be 
 a must have, but we will have to wait for a second installment of skate atleast until we see any 
 change like this. Skate also does have a good physics engine, which basically means when the person 
 falls of a skateboard, it looks realistic and at the same time painful. Overall, If skate has bits 
 from tony hawk, and kept it's anolgue system, it would truly be a must have, but for now, we will 
 have to wait for a second installment to be finally truly happy with a skateboarding game, which 
 until now, has been about 6 years. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlandry23
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 19, 2007 11:32 pm PT
Review:  Wow, i got this game just for fun, trying it out because Tony Hawk got boring, but holy crap, this 
 game is a blast
  
  It has Great Graphics, fantastic gameplay, and amazing freedom of what you want to do.
  
  You 
 can just roam around and not even do any objectives at all, and believe me that is really fun, 
 but after a while you'll want to do some things, and they make it fun and have a better lasting 
 value.
  
  There is an online mode, but i didn't care much for it.
  
  The only things making this game lose its perfection is that some missions are repetitive, SOME. 
 and when you mess up, or bail, or fall, etc. your character looks like they died, their model just 
 goes ragdoll of you and falls down drop dead. It's pretty funny though
  
  If you don't even like These kind of games, i still recommend getting this, at least rent, its 
 just so fun, i don't care for these games that much, but this one is just so much fun, the freedom, 
 visual display, and gameplay are all great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AuraHACK
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 13, 2007 12:37 am PT
Review:  The Tony Hawk franchise had been around for so long with little-to-no competition, it was refreshing 
 to see EA announce skate., a skateboarding game that emphasizes on realism instead of flashy moves 
 and 10-minute combo lines. When they revealed the "FlickIt" control scheme, EA said it would revolutionize 
 the genre in ways unseen to the gaming public. Months, promises and events later, skate. is finally 
 out on store shelves. Is it everything we were expecting, or is skate. a bastardized attempt at 
 getting into the extreme sports genre? 
  
  After many hours spent playing it, skate. falls somewhere in the middle. What EA is trying to push 
 as skate's "big catch" is the 'FlickIt' control scheme, where your feet are the square and cross 
 buttons, your arms are the R2 and L2 buttons, your body's tilt is the left analog stick and your 
 board is the right analog stick. It sounds unbearably confusing on paper, but how it goes is as 
 following: You push forward using the square button, you pull down on the right analog stick to 
 prepare an ollie, then you flick the stick up-right to do a kickflip. Your motions on the right 
 analog stick mimic your feet if you were to skateboard in real-life, so-to-speak. Your first few 
 minutes with the game will frustrate you to no end. You'll fall flat on your face against the ground, 
 against walls, against rails, stairs, cars, bus stops, the list goes on. After that you'll gradually 
 get better with the controls and realize that the scheme is pretty intuitive and you'll grow to 
 like to the possible extent of disliking any other form of control. Unfortunately, this is EA's 
 first shot at this, and in some areas it shows. For one, the game is severely lacking in trick 
 diversity. While there's a robust log of tricks you can pull off, some notable ones are missing. 
 Bonelesses and No Complys come to mind, both of which are essential to skateboarding when it comes 
 to getting more air off an ollie. The other downfall of the FlickIt system is that cramming so 
 many moves onto one simple analog stick is a daunting task, and while EA has tried their best, 
 trying to pull off a Nollie Late Inward Heelflip will only happen when you unconsciously input 
 a command after ollieing. The motions aren't distinctive enough from each other when it comes to 
 the more advanced tricks, so when you try to pull off a Varial Kickflip, you'll most likely end 
 up doing a 360 Shuv-It for the 20th time.
  
  Where skate. falls apart though is it's main career mode. It's the standard street-skater-to-pro 
 story you've seen throughout every other skateboarding game in the past half-decade or so, though 
 now you're doing goals for two different magazines in order to gain reputation. This comes down 
 to either doing local competitions to these video goals that involve you fulfilling 3 requirements 
 within 30 seconds. While these start out in a fairly easy manner, by the time you're nearly 75% 
 done with the game, these goals will become so seemingly impossible that you'll probably give up 
 on them before even trying. How reputation works is that you complete a certain amount of goals 
 until you're called upon for a photo shoot. The photo shoots are easily the coolest parts of the 
 game, as they ask you to pull a specific trick on a specific gap and though it takes a few tries 
 to get it right, it feels so satisfying to land it and see the photos that follow. When said photo 
 shoot is completed, you unlock 2 or 3 more goals and a bunch of new video goals. Rinse, wash, repeat. 
 This goes on until the very end with little-to-no diversity. The only standout goals in the game 
 are the ones that have you go up to a real-life pro as a part of sponsor challenges. Impress the 
 pro, you might get sponsored by his sponsor. The pro goals are all different enough that they have 
 you do some pretty cool stuff that doesn't really feel repetitive, which is nice. Sadly, once you 
 do have a sponsor, you're asked to film a video for the sponsor, which again falls into the stupid 
 video goals asking you to "score 5,000 points" with no other objective. 360 Flip a whole bunch 
 of times, goal passed. It's really ridiculous; EA definitely should of put at least some effort 
 into diversifying these goals, not to mention making a game that ends in a manner that rewards 
 you. You are literally rewarded with a pop-up on the screen saying "You win" and nothing more. 
 It's pretty depressing.
  
  What they also could of worked on is the replay editor. It seems like a really cool idea; when 
 your goal is finished (or at any time during gameplay) , you can go to the replay editor to edit 
 the past 30 seconds or so of gameplay to upload onto EA's online servers to not only view through 
 the game's online community, but also on the intertubes of EA's website. The problem with this 
 is that the editor is incredibly limited and uploading your footage online takes a ridiculously 
 long time. You can only choose from 5 preset camera views and beyond that there isn't much to editing. 
 Uploading a simple 10 seconds of footage can take up to 5 minutes. It's something you'll do the 
 first time, then never touch it again except from when you want to see your player smash his face 
 onto concrete in slow-motion over and over again.
  
  When you're not suffering with the inconsistent goals, you'll be suffering completing them due 
 to constant run-ins with pedestrians around the city. The excuse of having a "living, breathing 
 city" just can't cut it here, because tripping over a pedestrian you knocked over after hitting 
 a gap for the 10th try is just irritating. On the other hand, the city that you'll be tumbling 
 into pedestrians in is very well designed. It has diverse environments with a very natural feel 
 despite everything being skateable. The city is broken up into 4 districts: Suburbia, The Rez, 
 Old Town and Downtown. Each one looks different and has a unique element about it that separates 
 it from other districts. The Suburbs is full of houses, mini-skateparks, pools and rails; The Rez 
 is for the hills and downhill jamming, the Old Town is best for banked sidewalks and gaps and Downtown 
 is for the technical gaps and tricks.
  
  The city looks fantastic art direction-wise, but that's about all the graphics will really have 
 to offer. On the PS3, the frame-rate is absolutely horrendous. It's always inconsistent and you'll 
 never experience the smooth experience of the 360 version of the game. Of course, the skaters and 
 skateboards all look great, and the camera angle the game uses is incredible. It's very low to 
 the ground with the fish-eye lens and though it seems like a burden, and at times it can be, but 
 it's so engaging, when you're rolling down a hill, just popping one kickflip after the other over 
 the sidewalk and benches, you feel so into the game, it's almost unreal. Along with the camera 
 is the visual effects the game displays. The vignette around the edges of the screen, the coffee 
 mug stains on the menu displays, the high-contrasts when you start really getting into the game, 
 it's really quite impressive. Sadly, the chugging frame-rate will probably keep you from enjoying 
 it all but if you can oversee it, it's a very good-looking game.
  
  The sound also follows suit to the graphical aspects of the game, offering a top-notch soundtrack, 
 some very good voiceovers and some actually pretty good dialogue. See, the excuse for having the 
 camera so low is that there's always a guy following you around with a camera and he'll periodically 
 blurt out a comment, either at a local skater or at something you did. Like knocking a grandmother 
 over. The MC for the events is also pretty good, saying some pretty random stuff that even though 
 you think it doesn't belong in the game it ends up being pretty funny. The sound effects are all 
 good and the ambient sound of the city is well created. There isn't much to say about the sound. 
 Pretty standard stuff really.
  
  So to come full circle, skate. ends up being above average. It has an exciting concept, a brilliant 
 control scheme and some interesting features, but what surrounds all of that is a mediocre single-player 
 campaign and an even more mediocre set of online features. Skate. is something you're definitely 
 going to enjoy if you're a fan of the genre and even if you're a casual gamer, but don't expect 
 the second-coming of the skateboarding genre. It's a great start for EA as they definitely have 
 something here; it's just unfortunate that the first effort had to be so underwhelming upon its 
 conclusion. Hopefully we can all expect the eventual skate.2 to be everything skate. was supposed 
 be.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: canabis93
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 8, 2007 11:23 am PT
Review:  the new skate game EA SKATE is revolutionary skateboard game. the game is very realistic and has 
 great graphic's. there are many skate places to go, a hole custom made skate mekka named san vanelona. 
 the hole game seems very organic and you have some cool goals. if you like kickflips out of a stair 
 or on a rail instead for triple backflip like in the tony hawk series then this game is must buy. 
 the camera can be a little slow when u turn 180 degree's but on top of that this game is very good 
 and you will enjoy it to the full. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:24 am PT
Review:  Revo game. The control system on this game is one of a kind. You do a simple kickflip to grind 
 and youre like **** yeah I rock as apart from THPG where youre just bored.
  
  Left Stick, moves body and right feet, so you have to flick your ollies and fliptricks, unheard 
 of and a great idea for a skating game.
  
  The game is realistic. The graphics of course look amazing in HD, but the gameplay is almost perfectly 
 realistic.
  
  Theres no keep fliptricking whilst you grind to maintain speed, its the same as in real life.
 
  
  Career mode is made up of challenges set in a giant open city. The goal is to get sponsered and 
 then you end up at the X games towards the end.
  
  Dare I say this but Skate is Tony Hawks meets Realisim, with a touch of GTA in there.
  
  Get 
 this game.
  
  Oh and the framerate isnt that bad at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romer318
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 8:43 am PT
Review:  Ok, so let me start off by saying that this is a good game. The graphics are quite solid, and the 
 Flick-It trick control is a very nice feature to the game. Needless to say that it will have you 
 pulling your hair out later in the game, but after a while it will come to you. The slightest movement 
 during your trick and you will do an exact opposite of what you want. But still, it can be fun 
 at times landing those hard tricks, I guess you can say it can even be rewarding. The story on 
 this game is cool; you get hit by a bus, which apparently makes you a lucky kid. Because right 
 after that, you start meeting pros, and you start getting photo shoots... I wont to be hit with 
 a bus. Anyway, some of the challenges on the story mode are hard; you find that they ask you to 
 do some really difficult tricks onto grinds that just look like there not going to happen. As you 
 do these challenges you get money which then you can go to the skate shop and buy some clothes. 
 There are TONS of clothes in this game, so you might just be there for a while. Eventually you 
 will get sponsored and well... I won't spoil anything for you. So there you go Skate is a solid 
 game, but if you ask me, you should go Rent It first. Thats it for me, catch you later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logan2k_17
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  The right analog stick has been getting a lot of attention in the past few years, and Skate is 
 the apex of it all. This is the perfect way to make a sandbox skateboarding game, with the ability 
 to anything. The tony hawk games were always fun but cheap... The EA challenger has stepped up 
 and throttled Tony in the back of the head. The move look better, they are smoother and the games 
 just exhales skating to is most extreme point. The low camera, the sponsors, competitions, and 
 most importantly the security guards. Hitting a rail wrong on the way down 40 stairs has never 
 been so much fun to bail.... The injury system sometime will make you try and figure out how to 
 hurt you character the hardest.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 28, 2007 5:08 pm PT
Review:  Move over Birdman, there's a new guy on the block.
  
  I, like alot of people I'm sure, were very sceptical when EA announced they were making a new skateboarding 
 game to rival the established Tony Hawk Pro Skating series.
  
  We doubted if they could pull it off. How would it play, would there be good multiplayer, will 
 it be as addictive as earlier Tony Hawk games? Alot was kept close to EAs chest for a while. Could 
 Skate really knock Tony off his throne?
  
  Answer.... Hell Yeah!
  
  This game completely blows Tony Hawks Proving Ground out of the water. The new control system incorporating 
 the analogue sticks called flickit works amazingly well, and plays very fluid throughout.
  
  The graphics aren't wow but aren't total crap either, they look better than THPG anyways. This 
 isn't the main selling factor though, after all Great graphics dosen't not a good game make (No 
 thats not a grammar error)
  
  The gameplay in Tony Hawk games has been the same formula over and over again each year, sure the 
 Nail the Grab/Trick/Manual features have been added, but thats not exactly a huge selling point, 
 its gets boring quite quickly.
  
  The gameplay in Skate however, is extremely fluid and extremely addictive and so simple to just 
 pick up and play. No learing big button bashing combos like Hawk games, just flick the stick and 
 combine a few shoulder button presses with these to do grab tricks. Simple, easy to learn and very 
 effective.
  
  Multiplayer is good here too, not fantastic, but good for a short burst with your friends online. 
 Only 4 skaters can play in one game, but if you have like 16 in one game, that may get a little 
 over crowded to say the least!
  
  A few frame rate issues and multiplayer issues aside, Skate is a great game for anyone who got 
 tired of the Tony Hawk formula, if your a skater, or even if you just want to get into skating 
 games. This is the one for you.
  
  Now go skate!
  
  --Dave -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 2:17 pm PT
Review:  WOW! just WOW! last christmas when i unboxed my PS3 and popped in THP8, i relized, Tony Hawk games 
 are all the same. i didnt want to admit it, but Tony Hawk had gotten boring. I thought skate would 
 be the same thing, but i downloaded the demo and the controls were great and offered a whole new 
 perspective on skating video games. skating a little myself, this game offers a sense of accomplishment 
 when you land a hard line or trick, or whatever; for it's so relistic and siick. But in Tony Hawk, 
 you'de jump outta helicopter and be like, whatever . The graphics in this game are impressive, 
 the learning curve isn't to much, although it takes some practice to manual out of a trick. The 
 replay thing is pretty nifty too, you cant save videos and pics of you skating and post them online 
 for people to see and grade. MOST OF ALL!! personally, i couldnt stand the crappy music selection 
 in the Tony Hawks, but this game has a pretty decent music selection, Nirvana, the Ramones, David 
 Bowie, and some other good things. With all this greatness, there's one pretty major downpoint, 
 the online play lags quite a bit, but whatever. Now im anxiously awaiting the arrival of the second 
 installment of this series (?) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yoran92
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:19 am PT
Review:  What the @#$*. Why all the bad reviews? This is one of the best games I've ever played and TH can't 
 compete with this. You miss a grind because you didn't press triangle... And have you seen the 
 new TH series, Proving Ground? Shame on them, just only look at how they pull of an ollie. The 
 trick system of SKATE. rules, it's the best! The only better parts of the TH series are that it's 
 more expanded, like when you can walk and all, if there was only a way of combining these two games. 
 The flickit-controls of SKATE. and the atmosphere from TH. What kind of a master game would that 
 be? But still, SKATE. is way better, the challenges and the spots are more realistic, not like 
 TH when there's suddenly in a parc a huge quarter pipe. Just as one time in SKATE., me and a friend 
 of mine were playing these, we were skating from the Community Centre to Downtown. And suddenly, 
 we see at the right this huge rail with a bank. We went up and we saw that you could also go to 
 the Community Centre like this and you came out by the half-pipe there. But OK, we tried to grind 
 it and gap it, first a regular ollie and then a kickflip. Not as you would do in TH, first build 
 your special up by making manuals, and then do a huge McTwist down it, that just ain't right.
 
  Oh and by the way, I'm from Holland.
  Greetings and I hope you'll buy this game or already bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  I love it. This is my fisrt ever skateboarding game and i am glad i ahve made a descicion to get 
 this first than get Tony hawk. The controls for the game are the best i love the flickit controls 
 its so esy to use and you can up so many style pionts in doing that. What i didnt like was rhat 
 there was a frsm rate issue in the game and the online is laggy a bit. But the graphics were ok 
 but not as good as i expected. What i mean is that the trees are like 2d wut i thought was there 
 would be more cars more peds and more customixation options. Also i wish in the online mode of 
 the game it wl have a hangout room you know a skate park where you just hang out with your friends 
 and not do some of that boring games. Overall this is a pretty good game for my first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyhwk91
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 25, 2007 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Skate is and amazing and very talented game. Being a skateboarder my self, I look to find and play 
 all the skateboarding games I can. The Tony Hawk series has gotten me on a role ever since the 
 first game, and games like grind session and skate and destroy just kept that roll going on and 
 on.
  
  I've had very much fun with the Tony Hawk Series, but i've always wanted a skateboarding game that 
 mnakes me feel like im actually outside pulling off that 360 flip over a double set. Skate has 
 given me that ability and feeling.
  
  I was very pleased when i first got skate as it's open gameplay left me playing for 9 hours straight 
 the first day. It was a bit dissapointing when the story ended so soon, but that wasn't the reason 
 I bought the game, for it was the freeskate mode that got me going. Being able to skate anywhere 
 and everywhere without loading or a HUD, was the best feeling ever in a skateboarding game. The 
 trick system is perfect with the PS3's controller and the sixaxis features just make it even better. 
 I still play this game day after day, and each day i find new hidden spots, and new trick combo's 
 and lines.
  
  Skate is definitly the game to get, even if you don't like skateboarding. And I hope that EA will 
 come up with more and more skate's in the future. KEEP ON PUSHING 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Realist
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  skate.'s gameplay puts realism to the next level. Thanks to EA, Tony Hawk has a battle in next-gen 
 games.
  
  Tony Hawk's Proving Ground is skate.'s opponent in the battle of skateboarding games.
  
  I 
 was amused by skate. because of its realistic styled gameplay. If you seen how Mike Valley really 
 skates, this game is alot like that. skate. makes the word Gravity feel more Realistic due to Tony 
 Hawk's style of gameplay. Tony Hawk has a arcade gameplay by doing a bunch of kickfilps and manuals 
 with a quick grab revert before falling and other types of fast styled tricks in order to get a 
 million points. skate. is all about never doing the same trick again and again like the Tony Hawk 
 series. skate. feels realism that makes the game so real, it hurts.
  
  Tony Hawk games were the only hot Skateboarding games in town but skate. stomps the competition. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riku_sorrow
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 5:57 am PT
Review:  Getting tired doing 720 shove it 360 to a mac twist into a tripple kickflip?
  
  Then Skate is a new fresh start for the skate genre and players.
  
  Its slick controls gets 
 you right into the action with its new camera that tony hawk is trying to steal as in the demo!
 
  
  The stick has been made so that you actually make the real footmovements from real life with the 
 sticks for example: To do a kickflip in real life regular, you ollie, then push your front foot 
 out to the left and so goes for the right stick on your control, you press it down (ollie stance) , 
 then you press it up to the left corner and there ya have it!
  But sometimes it is hard to control your skater while playing at tight spots!
  
  The graphics 
 is also a refreshment! It's slick, easy and realistic and nothin' more... But some environments 
 just feel not fun at all...
  
  Most of the soundtracks weren't my style but I was wrong, it fits perfectly into the game.
  
 
  If you are BORED by tony hawks unrealistic playing and want some new action and way of playing, 
 ea's SKATE is perfect for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OMGitsZAL
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 13, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  I've mainly played TH games, so when I played the THPG demo, I was thinking Skate can't be better 
 than this, it's EA for goodness' sake! . I couldn't have been more wrong. When the demo came out, 
 I played it until it expired, and thought This is rubbish, the controls are too hard and its dizzy. 
 After that, I played it again and again and again, addicted. I pre-ordered the game and when I 
 got it, I was real happy. Anyway, onto the game play:
  
  The animation and physics are great. It just feels amazing. It makes doing a kickflip over a set 
 of stairs look good. Then the sense of accomplishing lines you've practiced for a long time, just 
 puts a smile on your face. The graphics are amazing but slight dips in frame rate do occur. It 
 generally shakes off after a few seconds so it doesn't affect much of the game play. Online play 
 is full of lag. No doubt. But when you play its smooth unless someone with a really bad connection 
 joins, but thats not as common nowadays. The city of San Van is huge, 4 sections each with their 
 own strong points. The career of the game is relatively short, I managed to complete it within 
 7 hours. I think the whole point of the career is basically getting cash to customize your skater 
 and getting a sponsor for free stuff, as well as getting footage to put online for others to rate.
 
  
  All in all, this game wipes the floor with Tony Hawk. I love it, and will be playing for a long 
 time. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TeamCodeman
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  with tony hawk serires out there in the big marked, there isnt really anyone that thinks that something 
 new will come up in the skateboard world, well they were wrong, SKATE is really cool, the new design 
 on the controls gives you the real feeling of running on a board, doing tricks is harder then ever, 
 but more satisfying when you get them right ;)
  
  not much to say a bout this game, except try it, if you like skateboarding this is a MUST HAVE 
 in any collcetion :) its worth a try.
  
  im giving this a 9/10 becouse of its new control system, create a career mode, a the total freedom 
 of doing whatever you want whenever you want.
  
  GREAT GAME :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hbrickwood
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 23, 2007 4:28 am PT
Review:  SKATE is the skateboarding game everybody has been waiting for. Gone are the button mashing games 
 of past-gen games., SKATE captures the feel of the sport and leaves you satisfied, but yerning for 
 more.......
  
  The controls are revolutionary, Yes, its such a simple concept you wonder why TH didnt stumble 
 upon it years ago ( the Dual Analog stick has been around a while) . The controls - work perfectly 
 most of the time, tho you will struggle in one mission in particular, but thats it, there are as 
 near as perfect as you'll get.
  9/10
  
  The gameplay - is the game, It feels fresh and once you have grasped it you'll be away performing 
 alsorts of tricks.
  10/10. The city - ( deserves a score in itself) is great. Plenty of variety. But Missing a little 
 something ( i havent found a memorable spot i keep wanting to return to - Theres no stand out Spot.) 
 8/10
  
  The graphics - Could have been Amazing, but fall short with the Jaggies and mysterious white lines. 
 The Textures of the surfaces tho are Amazing, the roads, graphite pavements etc, Just beautiful..... 
 8/10
  
  HOWEVER...... Despite being a game that could have smashed everyother game this year, a possible 
 GOTY. The framerate kills it.
  
  Hence why i have scored it 1 out of 10. Yes the concept is a masterpiece. Great start - poor finish. 
 Its such a good game but destroyed by a stuttering Slow camera. I can only hope that next years 
 iteration fixes the fps issues. So dissapointed........... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnarchistUSA
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:35 pm PT
Review:  Lets get one thing right here first Skate is not Tony Hawk's Pro Skater, it looks like it, feels 
 a bit like it and even plays a bit like it but its not Tony Hawk. Tony Hawk made the action sports 
 genre what it is and look no further than Skate if you want to see a homage to the Birdman. The 
 Tony Hawk's series seems arcady and unreal compared to its first real competition in its nine year 
 history Skate grinds the line of realism and hops over the line at some points where the requirements 
 get darn right stupid and so realistically annoying.
  
  The main selling point of this game is arguably the control scheme, entitled Flick It it means 
 to fully understand it you have to let your little skater out which surprisingly isn't actually 
 an innuendo. But basically to do a flip trick you need to use your analog sticks, grabs uses the 
 R2 or L2 buttons, grinds have no button and need good placement and manuals happen by pushing the 
 stick slightly back or forward. However several important tricks are missing from the fold, these 
 include pressure flips, inverts, no complies and bonelesses. Argueably this is the most intuitive 
 and realistic control scheme ever made but it does have its draw backs. For instance if a mission 
 requests a 360 flip to crooked grind it will take many an attempt before you manage that having 
 gone through about every other flip trick in the book before doing it right.
  
  The camera angle the game plays from is reminiscent of the old skate vid look thats low down and 
 looking up at the action, this is great but can cause problems when death racing or even just skating 
 down a street becomes difficult when your skater blocks objects in front of you. You will no doubt 
 lose count of how many times you hit cars at death defying speeds the only upside being if you 
 break each bone at least 3 times you unlock a bonus character to be used not in career mode.
  
  Online is different as there are the norm of both ranked and unranked games however if attempting 
 to play an unranked game you may find your self alone in an area because no one else wants to play 
 you this nearly ruined my intere respect for online gaming having skated round for several hours 
 with absolutely no one to play. When there are people to play though it is rewarding with many 
 different modes of play all of which are obvious if you have ever played Hawk online from best 
 trick to highest combo but the most rewarding and funnest is free skate. A rather impressive online 
 portal if a little basic much like the video editor. The less said about the very basic and simple 
 video editor and online video viewing the better.
  
  Career or mission driven people might tire of this game quickly as Skate is more about how you 
 get somewhere rather then what you do when your there. What you put into this game you get out, 
 and if you manually skate to every goal and attempt to session every spot you will get a lot more 
 out of this game than if you rush through the goals and only do the bare minimum. What you will 
 soon realise is that skateboarding is much tougher than you would expect and for every mission 
 you finish first time there will be 20 times as many missions that make you restart and restart, 
 lucky God or even EA gave us session markers that mean you can start at that point every time. 
 Overall it is a beatable game but some goals take time, patience, luck and a lack of anything better 
 to do.
  
  Over Skate is a very impressive game and undoubtedbly there will be a Skate 2 however it is the 
 sequel that will have more to live up to because it will have to improve on the mistakes and change 
 the bad things in order to do as well as the original. The only thing that stops the perfect 10 
 is the simple basic video editor and online video watching and rating. Peace out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyberhunt
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Skate is the #1 sports game of 2007 no doubt tony hawk is a great game no lie but skate has something 
 that i dont think tony hawk will ever have and thats able to control your skaters every move. Gamespot 
 did not give this game a very high rating even for the xbox360 it scored kind of low it should 
 of gotten a 8.0 or 8.5 for sure the graphics are sick gameplay is awesome i could play this game 
 for a long time the way you play it makes you feel your actually in the game, one thing i like about 
 the game is the manualling system but one thing alittle dissapointed with is when you manually 
 thats all you can do in tony hawk you can do alot of wicked manually tricks and thats one thing 
 i like about tony hawk. Skate also has video recorder and be able to take photos and send them online 
 to your friends or just share them with everyone, even if you dont skateboard for real and you like 
 playing the game then this one is specially the one for you yule love it in every way no regrets... ive 
 heard from people that the flip tricks can be a pain well it was for me to it took me about 2-3 
 hours to fully get the hang of the tricks well some of them the grabs and grinds were the easy 
 part but some of the tricky frlip tricks can get to you some times but yule get the hang of the 
 analog stick controls unlike tony hawk all you have to do is press a button thats what makes Skate 
 so unique you dont see alot of analog stick controls except for this one and lair which by the 
 way is another one of my favorite games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bryneezy
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:07 am PT
Review:  Supriseingly good. I knew it was going to be better than the Tony Hawk series. Thumb/analog tricks 
 need a bit of time to learn but it makes you feel like you're actually trying to flip the board 
 and not just pressing a button! The visuals is waaaaayyyyyy better than Tony Hawk games and the 
 levels are amazing big enough that you can miss whole places to skate if you don't spend hours 
 exploring each and every inch of the levels. EA did a great job with this one and I hope they up 
 the ante in part two if they make it. Here's the scores for each category: ( /10 )
  Game play: 9
  Graphics: 8
  Sound/Music: 8
  Customization: 8
  Level Size: 10
  Goals/Missions: 
 8
  Replay Editor: 10
  Replay Value: 9
  Overall Value: 8.75/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  I had severe doubts about skate. Was it too complicated? Too difficult? Too revolutionary? Well, 
 the simple answer is... no.
  
  Not entirely (that's the long answer) . It does work. Physics are brilliant, and the controls are 
 actually very good. It has a solid storyline, and many exciting features. So, first things first:
 
  
  CONTROLS
  
  This is the big one. Skate has always been advertised for having very revolutionary controls, and... 
 well... it has. The left stick controls the skater, and the right stick controls the board. Want 
 to ollie? Move the right stick down then up. Want to heelflip? Do the same, but tweak it slightly 
 as you're moving the stick up. It's very simple, and gives the game a realistic feel. Other controls 
 are simple. It takes a while to get used to, but can be an awful lot of fun!
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  Another feature that has interested people. The graphics are excellent. Probably the best I've 
 seen yet. The cracks in the pavement, detail on the cars, the precise movements in the skater's 
 body? All there. Everything.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  The gameplay is good, with a decent storyline, and good mission structure.
  
  PHYSICS
  
 
  Another very good feature, the gravity seems spot on. If you hit a car, you get thrown into the 
 sir, like you would. Everything seems perfect.
  
  SOUND
  
  Good soundtrack, although you can tell that they've compied the Hawk series here. Very similar 
 music, but some very good songs. The in-game sounds, such as engines, board sounds and voices are 
 all perfect too.
  
  So, at the moment, you'd be thinking, GREAT! I can't wait to get this game! And maybe you're right. 
 You probably will enjoy it, but hear me out first!
  
  There are some features which simply don't work.
  
  Firstly, you're given a HUMUNGOUS level. 
 About 5 times the size as THP8. And that's big, you'll never get bored of exploring. However, you 
 do. It's a mixture of the camera, the controls, and the way the game plays, but you just don't 
 feel like you want to explore every nook and cranny, like the Hawk games offer. It just doesn't 
 feel right.
  
  Secondly, there is content. Sure, you get a good story mode, but out of game, there are a few areas 
 to unlock, mainly skateparks, and a few proskaters. That doesn't sound too bad, and you do get 
 an interesting special skater, who is a skeleton, but that doesn't make you smile for long, as 
 you realise that Hawk gave you characters like this from the beginning as well, and they are way 
 more fun. Also, you don't even have to complete the game to unlock him, all you need to do is break 
 every bone in your body three times. Yes it takes a while, but if you really concentrate, you can 
 do this in 15 minutes.
  
  I'm not saying it's a bad game, and you will enjoy it, but there is something lacking. Also, I 
 can't see a sequal coming out, it'd be too similar...
  
  OK, so how does it compare to Hawk? Well...
  
  Last year, hawk introduced Nail-the-Trick. Basically, 
 skate. is a huge game of Nail-the-Trick, so you don't really get much new. Also, there is the bone 
 breaking challenge. Where have we seen that before? Only in THP8, from last year! Even the storyline 
 is similar to Project 8, in fact, I'd say that skate. is more late competition for THP8, rather 
 than THPG. Still, it's fun to play, and it will make you smile... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NightRangerII
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 16, 2007 3:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is the only skating game I have liked and have gotten hooked on. The replay feature is 
 where you can instantly stop review, and edit after any moment of skating. The thing that really 
 sets this game apart from all 1,000 of the Tony Hawk's is that most of the skating is done with 
 the analog sticks, and is alot less button mashing than other skating games. This game has a solid 
 single player game along with alot of cool features such as getting sponsored and eventually becoming 
 pro and ascending to the X-Games. The environment in which you are skating is totally skater-friendly 
 and large enough for you to search for days and still find new places you have never experienced 
 before. One of the only problems is that moving around can get difficult if you get caught up in 
 simple objects such as roadsigns and other various objects. But, you can also play 2 players on 
 split screen which I thought was a good idea. You should check out the online play as well. It 
 features alot of tight maps including the X-Games map with the Mega-Ramp. You can also compete 
 in a couple different online modes such as freeskate and other games such as S. K. A. T. E. which is 
 the skate trick version of the popular basketball game of H. O. R. S. E. or P. I. G. So the big picture 
 here is that this is a great skate game different from any other before it that is addictively 
 fun, and is deffinately worth renting if not buying. This is deffinately going to be one of the 
 PS3's top memorable games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rockafella888
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  First of all the graphics are absolutely brilliant! This is definetely as good as Tony Hawk, possibly 
 even better. The feature I enjoyed the most of the game is the fact that every single trick is 
 based on the right analog stick. After learning the movements trick performance becomes so much 
 fun. I don't own a PS3 but I played this at my friend's house all day and I was thinking of getting 
 a PS3 just for this game. Another cool feature is the bone breaking. If you ever break a bone a 
 skeleton will come up colored according to what you have broken, sprained or bruised. The games 
 is full of amazing challenges and events too. There are also plenty of big skateboarding companies 
 who are gonna sponsor along the way. This game is definetell a must for all PS3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skyborg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2007 4:38 pm PT
Review:  Very awesome game but the 1 flaw that messes the whole game up is that u cant get off ur board.. so 
 ur lmited to just skating, and u often have to skate around thing to find the handicap-ramp to get 
 to the place.. but overall a awesome game, beats tony hawk anyday, and i luv the new anaog stick trick 
 concept, makes the game highly addictive.. if ur looking for soemthing new, and fresh and meets mostly 
 all ur skating needs then definetly buy this game, no questions asked, but if u still think ur not 
 so sure bout the gameplay and u want to test it out, make sure u check out the demo on playstation 
 store... the online features make this game a whole lot funner as well, the difficulty of doing the 
 tricks makes the game s. k. a. t. e really fun when playing online with other people all over the world 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xRPGx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 7, 2007 5:06 pm PT
Review:  In gaming there seems to have always been a rule. That rule: gameplay makes the game. As long as 
 everything else doesn't totally fail, the gameplay of any game will separate the good from the 
 bad. Skate, I feel, is an exception to this rule in some ways. The gameplay is mostly fluent, very 
 addicting, and extremely original. Everything you could want in a games gameplay. This game, however, 
 seems to define itself by the game surrounding it. Why? Its not nearly as good.
  
  The game starts bad right from the start, with some weird scene involving you getting hit by a 
 bus, having to have surgery, barely living, then skating. Wait, skating? You got hit by a bus! 
 The whole thing seems very tacked on, in some lame attempt to have a story line. Sports games dont 
 need story lines. They need some form of progression, but a storyline? Totally unnecessary. After 
 that scene you start in some area resembling a skate park with a whole bunch of tutorial mini-missions. 
 And you are going to need every one of those. Grasping the control scheme can be a little tough, 
 especially if youve play the Tony Hawk series for more than 3 hours. The left analog stick controls 
 your body, meaning it will turn, spin, and flip your skater. The right analog stick controls your 
 board, allowing you to do board flips and modify grabs. The R2 and L2 buttons have your skater 
 grab your board, whether or not youre in the air. The R1 and L1 buttons bring up specific menus. 
 The X and [] buttons have your skate pump. The O button is your brake, and the triangle button 
 is your action button. Im sure most Tony Hawk fans have a raised eyebrow. So you dont hit the 
 square button for a board flip?! No you dont. If fact, flipping your board is the hardest thing 
 to first grasp in the controls. Flipping your board is easy. Doing a specific flip is hard. Just 
 ask anybody who has completed P-Rods Pro Challenge.
  
  Once you grasp the controls, you will start completing some missions. These missions include Best 
 Trick, Tutorials, Races, Pro Challenges, S-K-A-T-E, and, well, thats really it. The first bad 
 thing about this game is that its repetitive. You see all of the types of missions you are going 
 to see within the first 2 hours of gameplay, give or take a mission type. At first, it may not 
 seem like that big of a deal. But when you really get into the game, youll realize that this makes 
 the game a little boring.
  
  Speaking of a little boring, lets talk about something both boring and irritating about this game, 
 which is the second bad thing about this game: Traveling. There are supposedly 3 ways to travel 
 in this game. The first one is just pressing the X button until you die, which means skating from 
 place to place. Youll find yourself choosing this option a lot, but if youre going uphill, its 
 a pain. The second way is the subway system. I have a couple of problems with this. It seems like 
 there arent enough stations, or they are just too far apart. But the really bad thing is that 
 once you get to the subway station select screen, you cant see where your objectives are. Its 
 a pain to finally get to a subway station, but realize you have to go back, pull out your map, 
 scroll through to see where your objectives are, go back to the station, and travel there. This 
 may seem like a simple inconvenience, but its really annoying. The third way to travel in this 
 game is via session markers. These are kind of like checkpoints. You can place one down anywhere 
 in the fictional town, and then travel to that spot anytime you want. This is nice if you want 
 to nail a spot and have to try over and over again, but its not good for getting from point A 
 to point B. More like from point A to point A.
  
  The third thing that is bad about this game is half-assed skater selection and voice acting. I 
 dont know about you, but I have never heard of any of the skaters here before. Now, Im no skating 
 fanatic, but Ive watched the X-games enough to know the bigger names in skating. They might as 
 well have been made up characters. I probably should be more lenient, considering Tony Hawk probably 
 has a lock on most of the big names, but if youre going to have a skating game, you should have 
 at least one popular skater to be the face of the game. Also, if youre going to get a bunch of 
 no-named skaters, at least try to get some acting talent out of them! All of the lines said in 
 this game sound monotone and uninspired. I have a feeling the skaters were just given a script 
 and told to say all of the lines on it. No context, no situation, no effort.
  
  The final thing I hate about this game is the in-game advertising. Now, for a sports game, its 
 normal to have in-game ads, and Im fine with that. You can buy clothing in the game with real 
 skate companies logos and such. Fine. But this game just takes this to a new extreme. After you 
 complete a specific one of the missions, it literally says Go to www._______. com to see more videos 
 Thats just unacceptable and stupid. You cant just yell out Hey! These people paid us money! 
 You have to be more subtle about it, at the very least. Youd think EA would have enough money 
 left over from Madden sales to take this crap out of their game.
  
  The graphics and sound in this game are acceptable. There is some clipping with the clothing while 
 skating, but everything else seems to be pretty solid, which is nice. The camera angle in this 
 game really allows for an outstanding view, and the graphics do it justice. The sound effects in 
 this game are great, too. Everything sounds like it should, and the sounds even change with the 
 surface youre riding on. The music in this game only comes on when youre in a skating hotspot 
 where you can rack up a lot of points. This feature is nice, but not really important, as you will 
 learn where all of these spots are overtime.
  
  All-in-all, this game is really good. I have been a Tony Hawk player since the first one on the 
 N64, and going from the arcade style of Tony Hawk to the simulation style of Skate wasnt as hard 
 as I thought. Even though there are a lot of thing that irritate me about this game, I still like 
 it. The game and I have a sort of love-hate relationship. I get really frustrated whenever something 
 goes bad, but I just cant put the controller down. Call it obsession, but I just cant put it 
 down. In some ways, this is the first worthy competitor to Tony Hawk's monopoly over skating games. 
 Its just to bad the game doesnt live up to its gameplays potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy490052
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing 
 its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazingits 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazingits 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazingits 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazingits 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazingits 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazingits 
 amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing its amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gunnm45
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 7, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  I can understand that the gamers who like to make impossible moves or want to make the hardest 
 ones only pushing two buttons would prefer tony hawk option, but gamers who always wait for the 
 games that looks closer to the reality (control, game look, etc... ) have now the opportunity to 
 play the real skate game. Bueno, intent&eacute; ser lo mas conciso posible porque el ingles no 
 es aun mi idioma, pero en espa&ntilde; ol, que s&eacute; que teneis muchisimos lectores, si puedo 
 hacer ver a la gente que este juego es realmente el &uacute; nico juego real de skate que existe. 
 El control es increiblemente preciso, aun asi igual de dificil dado que el sistema no es exactamente 
 el mas propicio para conseguir hacer trucos uno detras de otro en poco tiempo, pero con la pr&aacute; tica 
 descubrir&aacute; s que no solo es posible sino que la recompensa por haberlo conseguido es muchisimo 
 mayor que con los sistemas antiguos de control. Las horas de juego que pongo en la review son con 
 la DEMO ya que el definitivo sale aqui en espa&ntilde; a el dia 18 y aun asi tengo aparcados todos 
 mis demas juegos solo por ver y descburir poco a poco todo lo que este juego te redescubre en este 
 genero que hasta ahora estaba monopolizado por un juego, que aunque no malo, dista mucho tanto 
 de lo real como de lo jugablemente satisfactorio para alguien que busque SIMULACI&Oacute; N a la 
 hora de coger el mando y no ARCADE total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Brandon_1525
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Your lines. Your style. Skate how you want with Flickit dual analog controls, it's just like being 
 on a board. Without footage, it's fiction. skate. reel lets you capture your moves, create videos, 
 and share them online. Hit the streets of San Vanelona, own the spots, and discover the epic locations 
 of San Vanelona. Earn coverage in real-world skate mags as you progress along multiple paths to 
 fame and infamy. Skate is EA's entrance to the skateboarding world, and they made a great game 
 while at the same time making a frustrating one. Skate brings a whole new level to the meaning 
 of a realistic game. Every push and trick of the board makes you feel like your actually on one. 
 It's pretty hard to get use to the way you move around on your board, and just when you think you 
 know what you are doing, they throw a bunch of very complicated tasks and goals to accomplish. 
 The goals can be easy if you get lucky, but for the most part they are very hard in my opinion. 
 The graphics and visuals for Skate are created very nicely and look great, but the frame rate can 
 really upset you. When you have difficult goals and an inconstant frame rate, things can get pretty 
 frustrating. Doing tricks and grinding rails are a lot of fun since you have to actually land on 
 the rail or move the analog stick for a trick. Most of the time you actually have more fun just 
 skating around and playing online then actually doing the career mode. In my opinion, Skate was 
 worth the money and change from the Tony Hawk series. I enjoy skate a lot, but it can get me pretty 
 stressed. If you like skateboarding games or just need a game that can kill some time, Skate is 
 a game you might want to purchase. It's 1-4 players offline and online for multiplayer, which is 
 a good addition since most games from the PS3 are only one player. In conclusion, Skate is a revolutionary 
 game that will change the way you play a skateboarding game forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamaSume
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  Skate is one of the few great games to come out before the holiday season. With an innovative idea 
 that no other.... (well Tony Hawk mainly) hasn't tried. Press X then square and right at the same 
 time... it won't be a kickflip. The idea to use the analog sticks for an entire games trick set 
 is pretty crazy. The gameplay it's self favors timed precision rather than relentless mashing. 
 If your proned to anger fits please do not pick this game up SixAxis controllers are not cheap 
 you know. This game will frustrate you at times, heavily so. The new controls are hard to do and 
 with little satisfaction afterwards. A good 360 nollie Laser Flip to a grind is hard. Really hard. 
 And you will have to do tricks like this throughout story mode. The game is somewhat short compared 
 to my avg. 40 hrs per game. Online lacks alot of cleanup and sheer game. Not alot to do and too 
 crowded when all you have playing is 4 players. Graphically this game is a master piece. Besides 
 the weird camera angles and blatant ads this game is super pretty to look at. If you like skateboarding 
 at all or want something new from Tony Hawk, try this.... it won't disappoint. Gameplay 8.5 - good 
 but needs cleanup
  Graphics 9.5 - truly top notch
  Sound 7.5 - good song list yet bad professional skater dialogue Lasting Appeal -7.0 it will last 
 you but once it's over... theres no reason to go back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nstein
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Cons: Has frame rate issues. Fairly often it bogs down but the only time it is a major issue is 
 right when you need a stable rate in order to pull off a trick for a challenge. Pain in the rear. 
 Pros: Everything else about the game. It feels like a cross between GTA and Tony Hawk. Been playing 
 for a few days now and I find myself jsut skating around the city wasting time for a good number 
 of hours until I remember I am supposed to be doing challenges.
  
  I recommend Skate to anyone that is even remotely interested in a skateboarding game. Grab the 
 demo off of the PSN and give it a shot if you aren't sure. Hell, grab the demo for TH: Proving 
 ground as well. Put them head to head and then go buy Skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2007 10:49 am PT
Review:  First let me say that for the Tony Hawk series to be out so many years I don't see how EA came 
 in out of nowhere with a skateboard game and was able to breathe new life into the genre with an 
 amazingly simple but deep, fun and intuitive gameplay mechanic. Skate is a beautiful game visually. 
 The sounds are all there as well. Audio is even a bit comical and amusing at times with some of 
 the characters you run into. The customization aspect is what you'd expect. The game offers a good 
 amount of variety and despite what other reviews say there really isn't a big frame rate issue 
 here. It may slow down online a bit but overall the game's speed is fine and not a problem at all. 
 (on a side note it's funny how Gamespot said on the 360 there are too many skaters online in one 
 area but then ding the PS3 version for allowing less skaters per area online... contradict yourself 
 much? )
  
  The place where this game shines is its gameplay. The use of the right stick is so much more fun, 
 intuitive and creative than holding the X button to olie and so on. I was waiting on Tony Hawk 
 this year but after playing this demo and buying the game i can say i am thoroughly satisfied. 
 Especially for the first game in the series this game is ahead of itself. I can't wait to see what 
 they do next year with this franchise because this year's Skate game is a great fun game to have 
 in your library. Plus it runs in 1080 to make it look even better. Music selection is pretty good 
 as well. There were some songs i was pleasantly surprised to hear. Overall, if you're into skateboard 
 games or even if you're not and just want a fun game to check out... check this one out. And if 
 you're thinking of getting Tony Hawk this year you might want to check this out first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zomif
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2007 8:27 am PT
Review:  I am not a big skateboard game guy. I have found them, well the games in the Tony Hawk series, 
 button timing craziness. I end up playing every 3rd edition for maybe 3 hours and realize I don't 
 have the patience nor timing to Combo, manual, grind, manual, 360, manual... you get the point. 
 Like any modern gamer I downloaded the demo if Skate and played it till the timer ran out, played 
 it again, Next day played it two more times. Now I own it and love it. Controls are the best part 
 of the game. I enjoy trying to master different moves. The online game play options are hits and 
 misses but there are enough hits to play for hours on end. The career mode lacks originality and 
 plot but I don't ask much of that from this genre. The biggest problem I have with it is the overkill 
 of commercialism in the game. Not only is everyone you encounter promoting various products, but 
 you have to represent brands to make money. Welcome to 21st century gaming. The game play is fun 
 and inventive. I hope the next one will have more depth but is well worth the down load to try. 
 I recommend trying this soon to be a regular player in this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romad64
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:58 pm PT
Review:  For years the Tony Hawk sereis has gone unchallenged in the skateboarding game genre.... until now. 
 Skate is finally here. Graphics- Skates graphics are stunning. It has a sort of painting kind of 
 style (at least the backrounds do) . Now I'm not saying the game is the best game graphically, but 
 it looks pretty impressive. I'm not sure framrate goes into the graphics category but oh well. 
 The framerate in the PS3 version is not as bad as everybody makes it out to be. The framerate does 
 drop sometimes, but it is hardly ever noticible. When it is noticible, it isn't very bad. If you 
 ever played Tony Hawks Project 8 on the PS3, then lets just say that Skate's framerate problems 
 are nothing compared to that (even though the framerate in THP8 wasn't that bad either) .
  
  Story- Skate tells the story of a no name skater who had a run in with a bus (literally) , and is 
 now on his way to the top of the skateboard world. Yeah, the story didn't make much sense to me 
 either. Anyway, the story of skate isn't much different than the type of stories we have been hearing 
 from the Tony Hawk sereis, although the stories in Tony Hawk were a lot more deeper (THUG, THAW, 
 even THUG 2) . All in all the story in skate gets the job done.
  
  Gameplay- Now I know what your thinking. Why did this guy give skate such a good score when he 
 just pointed out a lot of flaws about the game? Well, although I pointed out a few stuff such as 
 minor framerate issues and a shallow story, those things didn't really matter (well, at least the 
 story didn't) . What mattered is how well this game uses the controls. Instead of the usual button 
 based controls in other skateboarding games, skate takes a whole different route by using the analog 
 sticks. Now you may think that is weird and very difficult and that the controls are gonna be broken, 
 but it actually works pretty well. The new control scheme adds a lot more realism to the game and 
 it is a lot more rewarding when pulling off simple tricks such as kickflips and stuff. Now I'm 
 not saying it's perfect though. Some tricks are very difficult to pull off because the movements 
 for the analog stick to pull off the trick are similar to another tricks movements. Plus some of 
 the missions require you to pull off those certain tricks. It can be very frustrating, but don't 
 let that stop you from enjoying this game. It has great gameplay and is very entertaining.
  
  Bottom Line- The bottom line is that this game brings a more realistic control scheme to the 
 table and is a lot of fun to play. Fans of the Tony Hawk sereis tired of the out of control craziness 
 gameplay, then give skate a try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simont39
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2007 3:35 pm PT
Review:  The game play takes a little adjusting to if you spent your whole life with the THPS series (as 
 many people have) , but in the end it is very inventive, and very real . The flow of the game (getting 
 around town) itself is relatively well set up, but the career more itself is very short. One of 
 the biggest problems that arose for me is having to always get around on the board itself. THPS 
 a few games back figured out that you should be able to get off your deck and walk around, and 
 having already done that, Skate should have picked up from the rival and have had that programmed 
 into the game from the get go. The other issue with the game itself is freedom. Without having 
 cookie-cutter THPS style transitions, kicks, etc, it sometimes takes upwards of 20+ tries just 
 to get one thing done right. The game lack direction in what to do, doesn't much explain the challenge 
 and how to accomplish it. You could be trying a challenge for the 50th time, not doing it right 
 in the very least, and you'll never figure it out from the game itself, no hints, no help. The 
 last film goal is very nerve wrecking and can get you throwing your controller around just because 
 of the circumstances. Same thing with the last career challenge itself. I don't feel I rushed through 
 the game at all, yet at the very end I feel I lack the skill to tackle some of the last challenges 
 because the game's pacing isn't too well done.
  
  Overall Skate is a good skateboarding sim, with a few minor and few major adjustments that need 
 to be made to make it a much more fun experience. It has a ton of potential, and if the development 
 team figures out the few kinks, it could very well be the top skateboarding game, leaving THPS 
 in the dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuchuzz
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 12:45 pm PT
Review:  this game is really in my mind under rated, first of all gs gave it a 7, now that is way to low.
 
  while playing this game you beter forget most everything tony hawks tought you about landing 200 
 ft death jumps. in this game there is a max distance you can fall for you to be able to land now 
 thats not the only thing that seperates this game, you can also grind but its not press triangle 
 and intantle start grinding, you have to physicaly land on the pole and stay balanced or you will 
 slip off. whil the game is more reallistic its still got some pretty insane stuff, like i pulled 
 of a coffin backflip off a kicker, which unless your magic theres no way to do this. its not insanley 
 realestic, but you cant get a line lastin g 80min thats spanding the entire citie like in TH.
 
  any way, its a great game and if you have an aprecitiont fo what real skating is about pick up 
 this game, cuase its worth the full 60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fearmackan
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 1, 2007 7:13 am PT
Review:  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
 
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!!
  THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE 
 BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME 
 EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE 
 BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME 
 EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE 
 BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME EVER!!!! THE BEST GAME 
 EVER!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tdxmt57
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  This game is not for the faint of heart. This is not one of those games you have seen before where 
 you can climb to the top of a 40 story building and ollie off the top and land perfectly fine, 
 doing 73 trick on your way down. This game is very tru to life. there have been alot of gripes 
 about unrealistic goals. These are goals not invitations. they are meant to give you a little bit 
 of frustration. if anyone has actually skated in there life they will know that it take a few times 
 trying out a run or trick before you get it perfect. This was EAs intent in my opion. Okay enough 
 of that.
  
  The Good:
  
  Obvoiusly the Flick-it system is great. It is new to the genre and it is a much needed change to 
 the X then Square and then to Triangle to finish it off. The graphics are good but sometimes there 
 is alot going on so the framerate suffers. The overall feel of the game is great in my opinion.
 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Sponsors. Eventhough they exsist. the game is weighed down by them. Framerate. It drops rapidly 
 but for those tuned in there line, it wont matter.
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Pedestrians randomly appearing in your very thought out line. They just stand there and annoy.
 
  
  Overall: The game is great and provides hours and hours of fun. After you finish the game you can 
 just run around for days finding new spots to skate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 2:06 pm PT
Review:  The new hit game by EA is one no gamer should miss. Skate is a masterpiece with very few and minor 
 flaws. The new flick it system is a brilliant idea, which gives you a better as if you're really 
 controlling the board under your own feet. The most noticeable thing about the game is how amazingly 
 detailed and vivid the graphics are. If you've played Tony Hawk American Wasteland, Skate is sort 
 of like that in the sense that it's one massive free-roam level instead of lots and lots of small 
 levels. Not only is the single player game a total blast to play, but the online is just as fun. 
 It's got so many different gameplay styles, and it's fun to either just play with your friends 
 or a random bunch of guys. One of my favorite features is the Media feature, where you can edit 
 videos of you skating and post them on EA Nation through your Playstation 3, and also watch videos 
 of other skaters too. It's like YouTube (Most Viewed, Top Rated, Newest Videos, etc.) , and it has 
 very quick load times for each video. I'd say Skate is a definite must have for all Playstation 
 3 owners even if you don't like skateboarding all too much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genson77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The small critics game spot have do not stop this game to be a 8.5. Play the game and do not follow 
 game spot review. The analog system is new and is good, i like it better than the Tony Hawk game. 
 The graphics are good and you dont have to be wasting your time building ramps like in Project 
 8. And a little advise, after looking gamespot's reviews go and look a second opinion because gamespot 
 like to overrate xbox games only. Try and copare Tony Hawk Project 8 and Skate and you will see 
 what i say. Skate is a so cool addition to this genre. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_fisher
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2007 3:58 pm PT
Review:  Since its premiere in 1999 the Tony Hawk series has been the king of the extreme sports genre. 
 Not only did it make skating more mainstream but it helped revolutionize the extreme sports genre 
 which up to that point consisted mainly of snowboarding titles. But as the Tony Hawk series continued 
 with its yearly sequels the franchise lost some of its luster, almost becoming like the Madden 
 series. So its a bit of a surprise that Electronic Arts, the king of running franchises into the 
 ground, is responsible for breathing some fresh air into the extreme sports genre and quite possibly 
 dethroning Tony Hawk as the king of the Skate genre. The one aspect that sets Skate apart from 
 the Tony Hawk series is its control. All tricks are handled via the right analog stick with grabs 
 assigned to the shoulder buttons. While some may scoff at this merely thinking its EAs continued 
 infatuation with having all their titles utilize the right analog stick, it is probably the closest 
 youll get to real skating in a videogame. By flicking the right stick down and then popping it 
 back up again the player will perform an Ollie, and doing a downward arc to the left or right will 
 result in a pop-shuvit. This control scheme makes the game feel more natural and will make the 
 player feel like their actually skating compared to doing a trick that requires you to hold down 
 L1+X+Square. The controls in Skate definitely will take some getting used to but once you nail 
 them youll feel instant satisfaction partly because Skate is somewhat of a hard title. Compared 
 to the now arcade style Tony Hawk series Skate has been built as a simulation of skating and it 
 shows. The game is all about finding the perfect line and stringing tricks together instead of 
 trying to get a 250,000 point combo. Tony Hawk veterans may find a hard time adjusting to the title 
 since you cant go around and button smash with the hope landing tricks due to the sim nature of 
 the game. The right analog trick control works well but at times you need to be very clear in what 
 motions you make with it otherwise you wont do a proper trick or end up bailing. This can be frustrating 
 in the beginning but once you get the grip of the controls and the flow of the game youll be pulling 
 off nollie 540s with no problem. Perhaps the second best part of Skate is the skating playground 
 of San Vanelona. San Van is of course a fictional city but is based upon San Francisco, Vancouver 
 and Barcelona. The city feels like a living world with people walking the streets, other skaters 
 skating around and traffic on the streets. The city is also quite big with there being unique sections 
 such as The Burbs, Downtown and Oldtown. Unlike the Tony Hawk games the entire world of San Vanelona 
 is open from the start of the game except for special skate parks and compounds. Each part of the 
 city has a unique style and you can clearly see the influence the developers had from the real 
 world cities upon which theyre based off of. But perhaps the best part of the city is how its 
 set up for skating. Unlike Tony Hawk not everything in San Van is made out of ramps and rails. 
 So dont expect a conveniently placed ramp and rail on every corner which perfectly sets up another 
 trick opportunity. Instead in Skate you need to find the best line to pull of tricks and use the 
 environment to your advantage. This is both challenging but fun at the same time since it represents 
 real skating. Throughout the city are various skate parks consisting of large scale ones with multiple 
 rails and ramps to old school ones consisting of just a pool. These skate parks are good places 
 to test out your tricks and some of the games competitions take place at these locations too. 
 Skate doesnt offer a level editor but with the playground of San Vanelona you wont need one.
 
  
  For the most part Skate is an enjoyable title but there are a few issues. The first and probably 
 most commented one is the camera. In Skate the camera lies low behind the player as to simulate 
 the look found in some skate videos. While this is a nice touch it does get in the way in terms 
 of game play. The camera at times makes it difficult to know where the end of a ledge is if you 
 need to jump a gap and it also makes avoiding civilians, who are absolutely stupid in terms of 
 their Im not getting out of the way A. I. Skate can also seem a bit slow at times. It takes a 
 couple of tricks to gain some speed if youre in a pool or a particular ramp set-up. But once again 
 this follows the simulation style that Skate is thriving for. So you could either give credit to 
 the developers to sticking with their guns by making the speed of the game seem slow at times, 
 which mirrors real skating or you could look at this as being excessive since games are supposed 
 to be fun. Skate also takes a long time to get used to. Pulling off different tricks will take 
 you awhile since you need to be precise about your analog stick movements and you need to have 
 perfect timing to successfully grind a rail. At times the precise analog movements take awhile 
 from Skate. Yes, the overall idea of using the right analog stick is good and adds a lot to the 
 game but youll probably find yourself pulling off the same tricks for the first half of the game 
 or until you get used to things more. Unlike the past few Tony Hawk games you cant get off of 
 your board. While this doesnt hurt the game it does make a feel a bit more constraining since 
 there are times when youll be aching to just get off your board to walk up some stairs. The lack 
 of a walk mode is clearly something that will make its way into the next iteration of Skate or 
 perhaps even as a download in the future.
  
  Following in the path of the Tony Hawk series and other sports titles you can make your own skater. 
 Skate uses the same customization engine as the other EA titles which arent as deep as one may 
 want. However there are a good selection of clothing from brands like DC, Adidas and Alienware 
 as well as a wide selection of boards, trucks and wheels to add that personal touch to your skateboard. 
 As you build up your rep as a skater youll be able to join several competitions to boost your 
 rep and to open more competitions. These range from playing a simple game of S. K. A. T. E, entering 
 a trick competition or passing a video/photo challenge. During the game youll face challenges 
 by pros like Paul Rodriguez, Jason Dill and Rob Dydrek. In the beginning these challenges are pretty 
 simple and at times serve as a tutorial. But as you progress youll face more difficult challenges, 
 some of which border on the insane side. Passing challenges also unlock new skate parks with the 
 ultimate goal being to get to Danny Ways skate park compound. Once you beat these pro challenges 
 youll able to play as the pros in the free skate mode. Also when you beat certain challenges 
 you earn more rep which results in sponsorships and getting on magazine covers. It wouldve been 
 nice if there was a bit more of a deeper system in terms of the sponsors you have and the whole 
 magazine cover aspect but for a first attempt EA did a solid job. Theres also a nice challenge 
 called Own the Spot in which you need to beat a score on a certain environmental area. An example 
 of this is pulling off a long grind on a stair case which leads to the street or reaching 600 points 
 in a pool. The one thing about these challenges is that they arent listed on the map and only 
 appear when you skate by them. This was a nice game design decision since it in a way encourages 
 the player to explore San Van to find all 20 spots.
  
  Technically Skate is a solid title. The art design of San Vanelona is nice, the modeling of the 
 various pro skaters and civilians are good and the overall look of the game is probably the best 
 EA has produced this gen so far. Sadly there are quite a few moments of frame rate drops and pop-up. 
 The small occasions of pop-up arent that bad or noticeable but the frame rate drops are quite 
 frequent and at times are unexplainable*. Typically a game suffers frame drops when there is a 
 lot happening at once (see Lair as an example of this) but with Skate itll happen when youre 
 pulling off tricks in a skate pool. The frame drops never really hurt the experience you have with 
 the game but it just may bug you as to why this is happening on a powerhouse console like the PS3.
 
  
  Skate also has a pretty deep online experience which spans beyond the standard multiplayer fare. 
 Skate has options to join ranked or unranked matches so you can meet up with some friends if you 
 want. There are also online leader boards to see who the top skater is. But the core of Skates 
 online mode is the Skate Reel. In this players can edit videos of them from the single-player mode 
 and put them online. You can watch these user videos directly from the game or from the Skate website. 
 And if you were impressed with someones skill in a particular video you can even rate videos. 
 This aspect of the game is really fun since you can see the skill level of other people and it 
 fits the skating culture of producing skate videos.
  
  As always EA brings a nice selection of bands for the soundtrack. You can expect bands like Nirvana, 
 Black Flag and more during your Skate experience. You can of course edit your play list if you 
 grow tired of hearing Nirvana for the 10th time, but who would ever grow tired of Nirvana? The 
 one problem with the audio in Skate is that your skater is a mute. So during the small cutscenes 
 in the game in which you meet a fellow Pro Skater or enter a tournament you can expect the GTA 
 3 treatment from your skater. Instead you have a fellow skater who follows you and serves as 
 your cinematographer. So while youre skating and pull off a slick move or bail out you can expect 
 some comments from him instead of hearing yourself say something. This trend of not having a voice 
 option for created characters has been in quite a few EA games and really doesnt make sense. Why 
 not have a few selections of voices for the player to choose to further add that personal touch? 
 Aside from the lack of voice acting for your character the acting provided for the secondary characters 
 and the pro skaters are quite good and feel natural.
  
  So does Skate dethrone Tony Hawk? I would say yes. While there are some minor issues with the game 
 Skate presents a more realistic view of skating and in a way pays more respect to skating than 
 the recent Tony Hawk games have. Skate feels fresh both in the control and the layout of San Vanelona. 
 Hopefully EA will address the minor issues as Skate will become the premier skating game for extreme 
 sports fans.
  
  *there are also frame rate drops in the 360 version of the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heromoua
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Like me, some of your first impressions of the game was probably, Damn, not another Tony Hawk wannabe... 
 Well, if those were your thoughts, then you got it all wrong. Once you get your hands on the game, 
 and start playing it and getting used to the controls, believe me, you do not want to put your 
 hands down. My first experience with Skate was as awesome as my first experience playing a game 
 like Guitar Hero, because the game play scheme is so unique. In the Tony Hawk franchise, we played 
 it by pressing x to jump, circle to grab, square to do flip tricks, and triangle to grind. This 
 time around, all of the face button mashing is no longer there for us to smash, and instead we 
 realistically do every move and trick with the moving and flicking of the joysticks. By doing that, 
 there is so much more control over how you play it, and what tricks you want to do, giving the 
 game a strong sense that you are playing it. Let's say you want you skater to do a grind. This 
 time, its no pressing the grind button. This time, you make him do the grind, by making him jump 
 towards the rail or edge. The control scheme is hard at first, but after a good 30 minutes of playing, 
 you'll get used to it. One complaint I do have about the game play though, is the camera angle. 
 Though its not a bad camera angle, and it does give you the sense of speed and truly skating, it 
 doesn't really allow you to land and time some of your moves such as the grinds. But then again, 
 after a good few hours, you might've gotten used to the camera.
  
  Overall, this is a solid game, and possibly one of, if not the BEST game I've played all year. 
 The graphics are flawless, having amazing visuals and blur effects, and possibly the best motion 
 capturing and physics system we've all seen in a while. I mean seriously, every character movement 
 in motion capturing is smooth and flows nicely unlike Madden where you see a pause in between a 
 charater's movement to the next. The online is also very well done. You can play up to 3 other 
 players and up to over 7 game modes. The online is very well set up and organized, so you can keep 
 track of yours and other player's stats, as well as watch each other's videos that you can record. 
 If you've haven't played a skate boarding game since the sucking of the Tony Hawk franchise in 
 their Underground series, you might want to check this game out. Skater fans or not, anyone can 
 easily enjoy this game, even those who would likely deny that they won't like this game. I give 
 it a 10, it's a must play, and must buy for any owner of PS3 or 360. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
