-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Skate 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/skate2workingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intuitive controls for massive trick repertoire.
 Huge city to explore.
 Online co-op challenges are a lot of fun.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 On-foot movement is clumsy at best.
 Pedestrians get in the way and leave litter.
 AI of other skaters is questionable.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 20, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 8.3, 38 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 393 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Black Box
Genre: Skateboarding
Date: Jan 21, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Skate 2 adds a number of new features to the Skate formula, but not all of them are winners. "-//W3C//DTD 
 HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate 2 Review for PlayStation 3 - 
 GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) 
 { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Get out of jail and hit the streets of New San Vanelona in this video review for Skate 2.       
 Watch It   Watch HD 520p                 The Good            Intuitive controls for massive trick 
 repertoire  &nbsp;      Huge city to explore  &nbsp;      Online co-op challenges are a lot of 
 fun.                The Bad            On-foot movement is clumsy at best  &nbsp;      Pedestrians 
 get in the way and leave litter  &nbsp;      AI of other skaters is questionable.              
         After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Premium DLC 
    Posted: Feb 5, 2009 10:30 am PT      The recently released "Filmer Pack" not only adds new replay 
 camera options and new gear to Skate 2, it also lets you upload movies that are up to five minutes 
 (as opposed to just 30 seconds) long. The asking price of $7.49 isnt crazy, but this stuff 
 seems like it should have been included in the box. &nbsp;               

  When Skate was released in 2007, it took a fresh new approach with a control scheme that made tricks 
 feel more realistic and satisfying than in any previous game. Skate 2 refines this system somewhat 
 and, impressively, adds a wealth of new features and tricks to its predecessor's already sizable 
 repertoire. Some needlessly frustrating challenges and annoying AI, as well as a couple of strange 
 design choices (physics-enabled litter, anyone?) prevent this from being the great sequel that 
 it should have been, but Skate 2 is still a lot of fun and bodes well for the future of series. 

           Take the time to explore the city and you'll inevitably find new spots to skate.      
 

  Like the first game, Skate 2 has something resembling a story in Career mode, though that story 
 takes a backseat after the first hour or two. Returning to New San Vanelona after a stint in prison, 
 you discover that the fictional city, which was largely destroyed by some kind of natural disaster 
 while you were inside, is barely recognizable from the first game. The facelift comes courtesy 
 of the Mongocorp company, an organization with a penchant for structures that incorporate quarter 
 pipes, ramps, and rails, and with a seemingly endless supply of anti-skater caps and clips (you 
 learn how to remove these early on) with which to adorn them. Mongocorp's security guards are quick 
 to deal with any skaters who stray too close to the company's private property, but the city isn't 
 anything like the police state that Skate 2's intro movie would have you believe it is.  

  Where the narrative is concerned, your goal in Skate 2 is to rebuild your career and to reclaim 
 New San Vanelona for skaters in the process. Making a name for yourself as a skater involves entering 
 races and trick competitions, going head-to-head with pros who have devised challenges for you, 
 and doing photo shoots for magazines. Skate 2 is at its best when it affords you the freedom to 
 perform whichever tricks you want to in pursuit of a high score or, as is the case in photo shoots, 
 to adhere to fairly loose guidelines. Unfortunately, there are still a number of challenges in 
 which you're told  exactly  which tricks you must perform to succeed, the most common of which 
 are games of S. K. A. T. E. against the numerous pro skaters who appear in the game. Given that none 
 of the tricks in Skate 2 require complex controls to perform, the problem isn't that performing 
 specific tricks is difficult; it's just that so many tricks are executed in very similar ways. 
 The analog-stick controls aren't precise enough for you to nail specific tricks every time, so 
 you end up having to retry these challenges not because you bailed, but because you landed the 
 wrong trick.  

  The retry button also gets some use during photo shoots when, on rare occasions, you might be told 
 that you've failed a challenge when clearly you've fulfilled all of its criteria. The opposite 
 is also true, and being told that you've passed a photo shoot when all you did was fall off of 
 the end of a ramp or skate idly past the photographer can make for some particularly mundane magazine 
 shots. It's conceivable that you'll make it through the entire game without encountering this particular 
 bug, but it happened to us on more than one occasion.  

           Skitching is a great way to get around the city if you're in a hurry.      

  Challenges 
 are scattered around the city, and you can reach them either by warping to them instantly via a 
 menu screen or by skating around the city with an annotated map to help you. The former is a useful 
 option if you're in a hurry to unlock pro skaters and licensed merchandise for use online, but 
 the latter is definitely the better way to play because you inevitably find cool spots to skate 
 as you explore, many with their own optional challenges. Being able to get off of your board means 
 that you can reach areas such as the roofs of buildings that would otherwise be inaccessible, and 
 although the on-foot controls feel clumsy, the ability to walk is nevertheless a welcome addition 
 given the prevalence of flights of steps, curbs, and the like.  

  Stepping off of your board isn't good only for exploring and for negotiating steps; it's also the 
 only way to take advantage of one of Skate 2's other new features: the ability to move objects 
 around to create your own skate spots. This feature is used only rarely in challenges, which is 
 just as well because though it's a great idea in theory, it doesn't add a lot to the game in practice. 
 Moving large objects around is surprisingly easy; you stand next to the item that you want to move, 
 hold down a shoulder button, and use the analogs to reposition and rotate it. The problem is that 
 dumpsters, ramps, and grind rails that are light enough to be pulled and pushed around by a single 
 skater are also light enough to be moved when skaters accidentally bump into them. After you take 
 the time to perfectly align ramps and other items, it's irritating that they get moved around so 
 easily. There's an option to reset them to their intended positions if you remembered to mark them, 
 but an option to simply glue them in place so they don't move at all would have been welcome.  
    "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Skate 2 Review for 
 PlayStation 3 - Page 2 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { return 
 true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri =  
 var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 
 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem 
 =  if (! imgElem) { var parentElem =  
 if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { 
 return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; 
 imgElem. height = '1';  } return true; }   ON   mySimon :  Consumer 
 Reports Vacuums    //               GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm    
  MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com 
                Search                               iPhone Gaming:  With over 8000 games on the 
 iPhone, we decided...               Terminator Salvation Q&amp; A:  Producer Per Juhlen explains... 
               Fallout 3: Broken Steel DLC Q&amp; A:  Designer Al Nanes...               X-Men Origins: 
 Wolverine Launch Center:  Hes the best...                    home        PC      Xbox 360 
      Wii      PS3      PS2      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats 
      features      downloads      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews   
   Cheats     Answers     New Releases     Top Games     All PS3 Games     PlayStation Network  
    Tech Center          Theme:   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your account    Help 
    Forgot Password?                                       Add Game       Tag       Print       
 Email       Facebook       Digg                              Skate 2 Review          

 Skate 2 adds a number of new features to the Skate formula, but not all of them are winners.    
            The Good            Intuitive controls for massive trick repertoire  &nbsp;      Huge 
 city to explore  &nbsp;      Online co-op challenges are a lot of fun.                The Bad  
           On-foot movement is clumsy at best  &nbsp;      Pedestrians get in the way and leave 
 litter  &nbsp;      AI of other skaters is questionable.                      After The Fact:  
 Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Premium DLC    Posted: Feb 5, 2009 
 10:30 am PT      The recently released "Filmer Pack" not only adds new replay camera options and 
 new gear to Skate 2, it also lets you upload movies that are up to five minutes (as opposed to 
 just 30 seconds) long. The asking price of $7.49 isnt crazy, but this stuff seems like it 
 should have been included in the box. &nbsp;               

  Skate 2 is grounded in realism, but isn't afraid to ditch it in favor of good gameplay. This is 
 great when it comes to activities such as repositioning large objects or performing insane tricks 
 while leaping from the tops of buildings. Sometimes, though, the game's realism can get in the 
 way of you having a good time. For example, having pedestrians and traffic cross a line that you 
 have to take to complete a challenge can get frustrating after repeated attempts. Furthermore, 
 when the pedestrians start dropping physics-enabled litter, things can get so bad that you have 
 to resort to picking up a quarter pipe and using it to sweep apples, bottles, and handbags out 
 of the way.  

           New tricks in your repertoire include a number of handplants.      

  Other skaters 
 can also be a problem, especially when you're taking part in a challenge that requires a number 
 of you to skate simultaneously in a relatively small space. For instance, at the start of a three-on-three 
 contest in the Career mode, there's a good chance that your two teammates will crash into one another 
 at the start of every run. AI skaters are seemingly unaware of each other's existence, and they 
 certainly don't pay any attention to what you're doing. Collisions are avoidable if you keep an 
 eye out for other skaters, but the camera is occasionally too busy showing you how good you look 
 to show you where you're headed.  

  Collisions aren't always enabled when you play online, but they're also not a huge problem anyway 
 because other players are a lot smarter than the AI guys. Online options in Skate 2 include a number 
 of different competitive modes such as races, trick events, and contests to see who can hurt themselves 
 the most when bailing. More interesting than any of those, though, are the Burnout Paradise-style 
 co-op challenges that require everyone to work together toward a common goal. Some of these challenges, 
 such as accumulating a high score within a time limit by adding all six players' scores together, 
 are quite easy because skilled players can carry anyone who's struggling. Other challenges, such 
 as having six players grind a rail simultaneously or accumulating a high score in a situation in 
 which any one of them bailing or skating too slowly resets the counter to zero, can be tough even 
 in talented company. There's plenty of fun stuff to do while playing online, and the only drawback 
 is that you're confined to relatively small areas of the city rather than given the freedom to 
 explore the whole map with your friends.  

  Skate 2's offline multiplayer offering is limited to a Party Play mode that supports up to four 
 players on a single console. The Spot Battle (trick scores) , Hall of Meat (nasty wipeout scores) , 
 and S. K. A. T. E. (copy each other's tricks) games here are all turn-based, so four of you can even 
 compete using the same controller. The lack of split-screen support might be disappointing for 
 some, but simultaneous play would undoubtedly detract from rather than enhance the included Party 
 Play games in any case. If you feel like taking a break from skating to flex your creative muscles, 
 Skate 2 has got you covered. Not only can you create custom logos and graphics for your clothing 
 and deck on the game's official Web site and instantly export them to your game, but there's also 
 a decent video-editing tool that you can use to customize replays. It's a shame that said replays 
 are limited to around 30 seconds in length, but that's plenty long enough to make some great-looking 
 shorts to share online using the included gameplay, tripod, and "follow" camera options. Additional 
 camera options and storage space for replays will purportedly be made available for download at 
 a later date, which probably explains why there are no cool filters to play around with out of 
 the box this time around.  

           There's money to be made in broken bones.      

  Skate 2 is a great-looking game. There are some low-res textures here and there, but the attention 
 to detail throughout New San Vanelona is impressive, and the skaters animate incredibly well -- at 
 least until they step off of their boards. The audio is similarly impressive, with believable sound 
 effects that seemingly take into account every conceivable wheel movement and different skating 
 surface. An eclectic soundtrack of more than 50 songs occasionally offers a welcome distraction 
 from the noises of cars honking and pedestrians yelling at you, with contributions from such bands 
 as Black Sabbath, ELO, Judas Priest, Motorhead, Public Enemy, The Clash, and Wu-Tang Clan.  

  Even if you've played a lot of Skate, there are definitely enough new features and improvements 
 in Skate 2 to make it worth a look. The presentation is slick, the controls are great, and at times 
 you really do feel like you're skateboarding. Its unfortunate that things get dragged down by 
 the occasionally frustrating and buggy challenges; that walking on foot isnt handled better; and 
 that the games physics and artificial intelligence arent consistent and sometimes get in the 
 way of the gameplay; because Skate 2 has so much to offer. Oh, and the bone-breaking bails that 
 would kill you in real life are just another way to earn money here, so Skate 2 is not only a fun 
 alternative to taking to the streets, it's a safe one.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (31 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pexel_basic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  Graphics:
  
  Skaters and their surroundings look tight. Materials have their natural reflections and all look 
 very realistic. Except for the lack of quality on the pedestians and car models their's little 
 more to complain about the graphics of Skate 2 
  
  Controls:
  
  Skate 2 is the most fun skateboard game I played since the rise of the first Tony Hawk game on 
 ; in my case, the N64. The main reason for this are probaly the controls of Skate 2. Where TH became 
 repeative and old, this game gave an intense and fresh feeling to skating games. The controls come 
 close to being a sim. For everyone who ever rides or rode a real skateboard the game controls will 
 feel like playing with your fingerboard. Every move represented by one of your feet in real life, 
 is put into the same motion made by your right analog stick. 
  
  For an easy example, an olly is made by holding the right stick down, to move it back up again. 
 The same motion your front foot would make in real life. A kickflip is made the same way except 
 you'll move the stick diagonal to the (depending on your stance) left- or right uppercorner. With 
 this kind of system comes a variety of fliptricks, grabs, fingerflips, grinds, manuals and plants. 
 
  The feeling after executing and landing a trick is satisfying and makes you feel like you did it 
 for real.
  
  The only downside of the controlsystem is the execution of more complex fliptricks. The moves for 
 tricks like the Laserflip or Inward Heelflip, are a to precise task for the analog stick. It's 
 high sensibility makes you fail the move while thinking you just did it right, even after playing 
 and practising the game for many hours, some fliptricks still dont give a guaranteed hit. 
  
  
  
  Environment:
  
  The city of San Van is just HUGE. Having the ability of just cruising 
 through it seamlessly is great fun. There're lots of skateparcs, pools, skatespots and locations 
 to skate on. Actually everything in the city is skatable.
  
  
  Goals:
  
  Your goal in the game is to work your way up to fame and to free the city from Monocorp, a company 
 that guards spots from skaters and makes objects unskatable by putting blocks on ledges and other 
 grindable objects. 
  You'll achive this by taking part of photoshoots, races, videoshoots and challenges. By buying 
 skate venues and taking part of impression sessions you'll show the city skaters are not dead and 
 they deserve a place in the city. 
  Each photoshoot wants you to perform a certain trick, grind, plant or drop-inn. Videoshoots more 
 likely want you to do a serie of tricks. Challenges want you to win competitions or duel in a game 
 of S-K-A-T-E. Races contain an exciting downhill track with lots of traffic or gabs to ruin your 
 day. 
  Beside the road to fame there're several side-objectives, such as dominating locations, huge drop-inns 
 and Hall of Meat. 
  To dominate a location you need to beat a certain score on an object or within a certain area. 
 There're lots of these kind of locations and once you owned them they'll be available in multipayer 
 games. Hall of Meat is the opposite of all you'll normally trying to do, instead of performing 
 a slick trick with a thight landing, you'll need to get lost of your board in mid-air, spin and 
 turn as much as you can to additionally smash into the ground and break as many bones as possible. 
 If you overkill your skater hard enough, a screen will pop-up showing you all the bones you've 
 broken through a Rontgen photo. 
  
  
  Multiplayer
  
  Multiplayer challenge you to your friends in a game of S-K-A-T-E, Hall of Meat or Spot.
  S-K-A-T-E, 
 gives one the chance to show a trick for the rest to imitate. Hall of Meat is won by the player 
 that brings the most damage to himself. And Spot is won by the player with the highest score on 
 a chosen location.
  The only downside is not having the ability to roam through San Van with a friend sitting next 
 to you. 
  Ofcourse this is made possibile during online play, where the city is seperated in several areas 
 where you can start an activity where other players in that same area can chose to join that activity 
 or to decline it. Activities differ from the location you're at. It can be crossing a certain gab 
 or getting a high score on an object. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kikosk8
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2009 11:53 am PT
Review:  Now this game came up with the idea of the walking man, I think that the EA guys put up too much 
 work on that part of the game and kinda forgot the graphics I've discussed a lot this game since 
 i'm a skater this kind of games interest me, this sequel is the best of the two that if we are 
 talking in the gameplay atribute if we talk about the graphics Ea Skate 1 win's by a huge marge 
 of Ea Skate 2 now the thing I liked the most in Skate 2 is the Hall of meat menu the possibility 
 to tweak your caracther in the air gives you the power to kill him. The city is much better that 
 in the first in my opinion the second sequel should be put in the first game.
  
  
  
  ONLINE GAMING
  
  I think in the second game the online mode it's far better than in the 1st 
 it gives you chalenges to complete with your friends and my favourit you can play the Hall of Meat 
 chalenges online.
  
  SKATE 4 LIFE
  THANKS FOR READINg
  PORTUGAL RULES 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BloodStainedXoX
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 6:23 am PT
Review:  Its a REALLY good game, but it also has its down sides. The total control of the skateboard using 
 the right stick makes it easy to get the right trick at the right time. It's incredibly realistic 
 and looks like a real life world. BUT, all the attention has been focused on the skating part of 
 the game. The second you step off your board, you lose practically all control. The walking, running 
 and turning is incredibly difficult. This lets the entire game down because you can't complete 
 the game without stepping off your board. Its good for say, going up a curb, because in skate, 
 you could spend about 5 minutes trying to ollie up a curb, whereas you can now just get off and 
 walk up it. but when trying to move objects around, it becomes really tedious. Online is great 
 fun, including the freeskate activites. HUGE variety of tricks and fun to play, but stay on your 
 board as much as possible. :) RECOMMENDED! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 1:58 pm PT
Review:  skate 2 is one of the most anticipated sequels of 2009 and what a sequel it is it takes the games 
 origanall stick trick contro; s to a whole new level this time a try to test out your skills online.
 
  
  Story-unlike other games were you can complete the story in about 5hrs this one can take up to 
 16hrs with side missions and compotitions to keep you intrested throughout plus with some great 
 free skate areas around youl find yourself playing for hours and hours. There are allways things 
 to do afterwards like own the spot trying to get the highest score in certain areas. This story 
 mode was deffenetly worth the time.
  
  Online- this is a new feature in skate 2 and it is simply amazing there are plenty of game modes 
 to choose from like skate, hall of meat, own the spot and death race. There is a great rankin system 
 where for evry position you come you get a certain amount of pionts. Getting to legend is fun cuz 
 you get a little crown how fun lo0l.
  
  Costom-there are plenty of things to make and change from your player to fully costamizable boards.
 
  
  The best skate game ever a must have skate game of the yaer 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d000d
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2009 2:43 am PT
Review:  skate 1 was absalutely great but this is even more amazing, it is like obne the best games ever 
 made. I mean there are tons more tricks you can do includinghand and foot plants, no complys, finger 
 flips one footed tricks deliberate bails and even get of you board :o the online is even better 
 to, there are plenty of challenges and game modes including best tricks comps, races, bail comps 
 and so on, it is also great fun with a freind playing multiplayer but there arent as much game 
 modes as online. the graphics are really good as well and even the music is great, it has alot 
 of great songs from rage against the machine, dragonforce and public enemy. the skateboarding itself 
 looks perfect i mean every flip trick looks so realistic and greatly done, so this game is absaluty 
 brill and the ps3 is probly worth buying just for this expecialy if you like realistic skateboarding. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IplayEA
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 14, 2009 12:27 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say about the game, i didnt play it very long: a few days. It's pretty difficult to 
 an aggravating point, the analog stick tricks arent very easy, getting enough air to grind or do 
 anything doesnt happen much. I mean the game was made with a lot of efforts, the level is HUGE. 
 Remind me of Burnout Paradise A LOT. Same game style I'd say. If your in to skating, buy this game, 
 if not im sure there is something else out for you. For me, more of a game to play with friends. 
 Sticking with Tony Hawk Pro Skater 4.
  
  Visuals: 9/10 (vast, great graphics)
  Gameplay: 7.5/10 (a bit dull, but decent)
  Reply Value: 6/10 (Unless you play long enough to 
 master it, agitating)
  Overall : 7/10
  
  Pros: Looks great, cool characters and voices, very realistic, very vast and thought out level
 
  
  Cons: Difficult, can get repetitive and annoying, TOO realistic, low replay factor
  
  For Ages 11+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duderonomi
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 11, 2009 10:28 am PT
Review:  If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! v If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best 
 Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
 v If You Skate-Best Game Ever! If You Skate-Best Game Ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Luke_B_16
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 8, 2009 7:30 am PT
Review:  Skate 2 - a very fun and unique game thanks to its all new 'flickit' controls and that your an 
 ex-convict who has just got out of jail. Its a great game with lots to do but missions/activities 
 tend to be quite frustrating and narrow. Great when just roaming around but not so great when doing 
 an activity (own the spots are the most frustrating and difficult in my opinion) . Although the 
 activities are often narrow and frustrating you may find that the street contests are very fun 
 and fairly easy. create-your-skater is deep with many merchandice to choose from. all new hall 
 of meat mode will have you laughing and cringing in no time :P. But overall a very likeable game 
 that is worth buying if u have even the slightest interst in the sport.
  
  Graphics - 9
  Gameplay - 9
  Career Mode Story - 9
  Difficulty - 10
  Fun-ness - 10 
  Thats about it folks 
 great game thanks for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummadood
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  This has got to be one of the best games i have ever played. I waited so long for this game to 
 come out and it is AMAZING! If you rated this game lower than an 8, you either hate skateboarding 
 or you have no taste in video games and only care about First Person Shooters. I have beaten Skate. 
 at least a hundred times over and liked it every time. This game is way worth your money and once 
 you beat it, there is still a whole lot more you can do with the game. Great game, great sequel, 
 great storyline, great controls, great gameplay. I think this game should get GOTM for sure. If 
 you skateboard and you haven't played the first skate, you need to because it's awesome! I will 
 admit there are better games than this but this is a MUST-HAVE!! You should seriously consider 
 buying this game cuz it kicks @$$! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oldschool12790
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 holds some of its former's characteristics, with a whole new cast of characters and some 
 new moves. All in all an amazing game. Skate 2 is different than the games in the tony hawk series 
 because they are 1. more realistic 2. alot more fun. and 3. when you complete a task it feels like 
 you've really been out there skateboarding. i would recommend this game to anyone who likes skating 
 or games of the tony hawk series. a SKATE player must have patience though because some challenges 
 may become grueling but once you complete them the game turns awesome. another quality this game 
 has is its addictiveness. everytime you stop playing you cannot wait to turn your console back 
 on and nail that damn rail or hit that air. as close as you can come to skateboarding without actually 
 having to buy a deck. a must have for a fan of all extreme sports games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: polishkid99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:16 pm PT
Review:  First off let's see what's new. In Skate 2 there's double the amount of tricks than there were 
 in the original Skate, including foot-plants, hand-plants, fingerflips, lip tricks, ollie norths, hippie 
 jumps and lastly the ability to skitch. You can also create either a male or female character. 
 You can also get off your board and walk. While on foot, you can move certain objects in the world.
 
  
  Story-
  
  Skate 2 is set five years after the original skate. Earthquakes ruined the city, San Van has been 
 turned into New San Van after MongoCorp rebuilt it. There is a lot more security around town, and 
 some rails and certain spots to skate have been capped. You progress through the story by completing 
 challenges for magazines The Skateboard Mag and Thrasher before shooting a cover photo as a final 
 mission for each magazine. Throughout the game you can choose board, truck, wheel, and shoe sponsorships 
 from well-known skateboarding brands.
  
  Graphics- 
  
  Improved upon Skate, and I have noticed a lot more vibrant colors. Although Things look beautiful 
 far away and awful up close.
  
  Audio + Controls-
  
  Some what good music, Great sound effects. the Trick stick works very good, you feel like your 
 actually skating. The off board controls are bad and you can barely do stuff and moving things 
 around is pretty hard because of it.
  
  
  Quick Review-
  
  The Good-
  + Great Graphics
  + Huge World
  + Good board control
  + double the tricks
  + Trophies are 
 easy to get.
  
  
  The Bad-
  - Off-board movement SUCKS
  - People, Skaters, and litter get in the way.
  - Movable objects MOVE when you try to skate on 
 them.
  - Barely anything to choose from for merchandise.
  
  
  Some of the Good, and bad things i thought of off the top of my head.
  
  
  Thanks for reading, 
 and go out and buy this game, It's awesome.
  
  -Polishkid99 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IxEmoKidIx
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:07 am PT
Review:  I haven't played Skate and I'm not a skater IRL.
  I played the demo of Skate 2 and though that this would suck, but I wasn't prepared for this.. 
 It was so fuc*ing good!
  
  So i bought the game and i was so excited about it.. One day i played 7 hours in a line. But anyway, 
 I'll tell you about the game now.
  
  It isn't really much to tell about a Skate game but the graphics is very good and you have many 
 options to customize your character. If you want your skater to be like you or to be a freaking 
 geek, it's all up to you. The Flickit - Controller V.2 is really good, such a feeling! Tony Hawk 
 have got no chance now. The Flickit is the real thing! Although, when you're outside the skating, 
 and just running around or moving some things, it's quite hard to manoeuvre your skater. That's 
 very annoying.
  
  The city is quite big and have good spots and all that. BUT it could have been bigger. Although, 
 that's not a "-" from me. Why I give this game 9/10? 
  
  The good part:
  
  + Good graphics
  + Good feeling
  + Good Single and Online play.
  + Addictive
  
  The bad 
 part:
  - Some bugs
  - Issues when not skating (moving around etc)
  
  All in all, this game is definitely worth the money and if you like skate games, you'll love this 
 one!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ultimateundadog
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:41 am PT
Review:  all the challenges are fun. that includes the skateboard mag with atiba jefferson, the thrasher 
 mag with michael burnett, deathraces, owning all the spots and if you want to kill them, film challenges, 
 throwndowns, team film challenges, places to buy and then skate, simply the game has got a lot 
 of things to do, if you want to skate with big black the cheat code is "letsdowork" in the extras 
 section from the main page, if anybody needs help just post it or send me a message and i would 
 love to help, so if anyone needs help you know what to do. my favorite tricks are nollie laser 
 flips nollie 360 flips, laser flips, 360 flips, varials and nollie varials which are heel or kickflips, 
 triple and quad heel or kickflips, christ airs, tweaked backflips, inverts, rocket airs, superdudes 
 and others. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:55 pm PT
Review:  skate 2 was worth the wait because they fixed everything that was wrong with the first skate and 
 added more stuff to make it the best skateboarding game ever i dont know whats wrong with gamespot 
 only giving it a 7.5 though at least it improved from the first skate. though i found that the 
 game was most dissapointing with the walking controls because its a little ackward though at least 
 you can move stuff around which is the best part of the game. Also hippy jumps and the cheat where 
 you can play as big black. whats also good is that they kept some areas from the first skate but 
 modified them a little bit. And the new way to bail where you can do a cannabal a tornado and two 
 other things whose name i forgot. theres really nothing to complain about it. if your a tony hawk 
 fan if there are any you will want to get this game for no matter what price this game deliveries. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hawkboy_4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 21, 2009 2:27 am PT
Review:  this game poo's all over tony hawk because its realistic and doesnt let you pull off 15 + tricks 
 off a kicker. it has 60 frames per sencond which the first game had 30 which makes tihs one unbelvieable. 
 it is fun to play expecaly online versing other skaters. skateboarders with a ps3 or 360 should 
 put this game at the top of there list if they havnt brought it yet. skate 2 can be fustrating 
 at times with can you spell girl ( a mission near the end of the game) and when playing hall of 
 meat online when popel use the glith to score a tone of points ( totaly unfiar) . it has 15 skaters 
 to choose from and over 600 customizing options. and you can design your own graphics on the ea 
 website which represents you online. even when you beat the missions it is fun to skate around 
 for ages and find new spots to own and the fact that you can get off your board means you dont 
 have to place session markers all the time to get up the stair set or try ollie up the stairs 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D4NZEL-709
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:25 pm PT
Review:  This skate game is very fun lots of tricks but it can get frustrating at times cause you always 
 have to get the analog stick in the exact right spot.
  The customization is pretty disappointing cause no matter how you try and change the character 
 he will look almost the same but the awesome thing is that their are double the clothes and tricks 
 and you will be able to create your own graphic and upload it.
  The multiplayer is more surprising than i thought but their are some cheaters who try and find 
 a bug in the hall of meat which can piss you off sometimes when your trying to rank up they always 
 make you lose more exp.
  Overall the game is awesome for the non hardcore gamers and might not be the best for the hardcore 
 gamers and the off board controls suck but at least your able to this time. 
  The game could have been much better i would have waited till march or feb to get better off board 
 controls cause you can only jump i wish you could climb but its worth the money for the average 
 gamer.
  Hall of meat is very fun and can be funny if you know where to do the stunt.
  The biggest improvement is the city twice as big twice the fun cant wait to see what SKATE 3 will 
 be like.
  
  
  Ciao i am gonna go pwn some nooooooobbs and get the trophy.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpitt09
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is the best skateboarding game out, hands down. The new city is easy to flow through, and 
 has plenty of sick spots to stop and do some filming. The video editor is where you'll bleed away 
 a lot of your time (in a good way) . The extensive multiplayer modes give you plenty of extra things 
 to accomplish, although a few glitches can take the fun out of one of the best online modes, the 
 Hall of Meat. The career mode also offers plenty of video shoots, contests, and challenges to keep 
 you occupied for weeks (Good luck beating Koston and Carrol in a game of S. K. A. T. E) . Whether you're 
 a longtime skateboarder, or just a casual fan of skateboarding games, Skate 2 is a game you shouldn't 
 live with out. Overall, I rate it at an 8.5, but that could easily change to a 9 if the production 
 team can somehow fix one or two of the games glitches. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chris_assassin
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 16, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is everything skate was with an absolute tone of stuff added for good measure. The main 
 improvement is with the online features. Copying Burnout Paradise it lets users move straight to 
 online free skate while playing it on the solo mode.
  
  The frame rate has been far improved as there is no occasional lapse which brought skate down a 
 notch. 
  
  The single player has also far improved by adding a more varied selection of contests and skate 
 parks the player can buy.
  
  But by my favourite improvement is the new hall of meat system, which rewards players for causing 
 a world of hurt on their skater. Broken skulls and broken legs will reward players with cold hard 
 cash.
  
  Th one thing that lets skate 2 down is the difficulty. The problem is that some challenges can 
 be done in 5 min's, while some can take a lot longer.
  
  Over all Skate 2 Is not a game that should be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yzarcneddam
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 10:33 am PT
Review:  aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 a aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaa aaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaa mmmmm mmmmm mmm mmmmmm mmmmm mmm mmmmmm mmmm mmm mmmmm mmmm mmmm mmmmmm 
 mmmmmmm mmm mmmm mmmm mmmmm mmm mmm mmmmm mmmm mmmm mmm mmmm mmmm mma aaaaaaa aaa aaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaa aaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa a aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaaa zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzz zzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz 
 zzzzzz zzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzzzzzzz zzzzzzzzz zzz zzzzzzzzzzz 
 zzz zzzzzz zzzz zzziiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiiiii iiiii iiiii iiiiii iiiiiiii iiiii iiiiiii iiiiiiii 
 iiiiiii iiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiii ii iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiii 
 iiii iiiiiiiii iiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiii iiiiiiiii iiiiiiiiiiiiiii iiiiii iiiiiiiiiiinnnnnnnn 
 nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnn nnnnnn nn nnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnn nnn nnnnnn nnnnn nnnnnnnnn 
 nnnnn nn nnnnnnn nnnnnnnnnnn nnnnnnnnn nn nggggggg ggggg gggg ggggggggg gggggggggggggg ggggggg 
 ggggggg ggggggggggggggg gggggg ggggggg ggggg gggg ggggggg ggggg ggggggg ggggggggg ggggggg ggg ggggggg 
 ggggggggggg ggggggg gggggg!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!! 
 !!! !!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!!!!!!! !!! !!!! !!!!!! !!!!! !!!! can cna cnancnancn d d ndn 
 d ndn dn dn d ndn dn dn dn d n dn rn rn rtig jg g jb j j i j nk hi ih hi hi hi hi hi ih hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi ih hi ih hi ih ih h hi ih hi ih hi hi hi hi hi ih hi hi hi hi hi 
 hiop op po po op op o p op op opop ops o sos o so sos osos o o o o oos os o os o os oss o os os 
 oso s soo s os os oso sso o so ssoo so s os sosos o os os os so so so os os os os os os os os os 
 os iso so so os os os so so so so so so so so so so so so hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi 
 hi hi hi hi hi hi hi hi h ih ih ihi hi h ihi hi hi 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DownloadFailed
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:32 pm PT
Review:  my review got erased by some bumd Gamespot error. Dammit all...
  
  THE GAME IS GREAT BUT IT THERE ARE SOME BUGS BUT IT'S GREAT!
  So now to fill in the next couple 
 words... The game is fun, there are some civilian bugs but that's all. Is that 100 words yet? yes? 
 no? Keep going? ok. The city of San Vanelona has been over-runned by MongoCorp and you and a bunch 
 of other guys are trying to take back the city. There are guards and caps that get on your nerves 
 so you get guys to help you. There are bugs in the game and I said something that had to do with 
 Counter Strike and running into civilians or somethign I can't remember. Anyway, THERE YA HAS IT! 
 Omg I need 800 characters? Jeeze. Well it should be just about ok by now. How 'bout now? Ok now? 
 GOOD!
  
  There's my summary... Screw this I'm gonna go play it now. L8R!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimlad180
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I loved the first game, i loved it. i spent days on it.
  1 year later, I buy skate 2, love it, spend days on it. Its not a great deal different to the first 
 game, except you can get off your board, the hall of meat is a hole lot more interesting and you 
 can call in people to help u. So you might be thinking that there is no point buying it if u have 
 the first game - if u think this u r rong. The game is still as addictive and fun as it ever will 
 be. The online has also been tweaked so there is no lag and a hole lot more options ( freeskate 
 online was deeply missed in the first game) also there is the hall of meat minigame, which requires 
 you to do the most insane wipeout and get the most points, which is enormasly fun and deathrace 
 online is wicked. so overall, if your new to skate, nows the time to begin. if your a skate veteran, 
 you should also buy this. Well, wat are you waiting for? Buy it. NOW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cda29
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 1:03 pm PT
Review:  I didn't play the first part of skate. Instead i played the crappy tony hawk series which are nothing 
 compared to skate. even the simplest trick gives you great fun and satissfaction. at the beggining 
 it may seem very hard but after few hours of playing you get used to it. I GIVE 10/10. it is worth 
 to but for the people that don't get easilly annoyed and flustrated by some more engaging games. 
 i have to have 100 words so this will be smap dont read it :D SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM
  SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM
  SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM 
  SPAM SPAM 
 SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM
  SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM
  SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM SPAM ,,,,,,,
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ivan-beloni
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 5, 2009 2:08 am PT
Review:  Skate 1 was a great success the innovative controll system worked beautifully the story was great 
 and the town of San Van was sweet to skate in.
  In Skate 2 the storyline isn't so great, but everything else is Fantastic!
  
  
  GAMEPLAY:
 
  the controll system is way better (still not 100% but it's almost there)
  The realityness (i know that's not a word) of it is better, it still follows the lines of a simulator, 
 but at some points it sacrifices that in the name of fun, which is great, is nice to have a break 
 once in a while and do something impossible after all isn't that why we play games??
  the challenges are great and well ballanced.
  the storyline, as said before, isn't so good i 
 felt that it was just not present enougt, like it was just a part of the background.
  
  SOUND:
  also great, Soundtracks sets a good mood for skating, the sound of the bones cracking 
 gives you the chills (specially when you break your crotch)
  
  GRAPHICS:
  Could have been a bit better, in various occasions when watching a replay or taking a picture the 
 image seems like it was pulled from a ps2 system not ps3, but otherwise is good framerate almost 
 never drops, whitch is important, specialy in deathraces.
  
  FEATURES:
  The skater are great, merchandise is awsome, character customization is perfect, online stuff is 
 as good as ever, create a spot is a bit too complicated for my taste, but is a nice add-on.
  Skate Reel is good and if you get the new Filmers pack it gets mutch better (if you dont agree 
 check tis out:
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=x23Vt70tGgY)
  
  Final Word:
  Skate 2 is almost perfect the challenges are great to play through and even after you complete 
 everything it still is great fun to ride arround town and skate some random spots and when you 
 thought you saw it all, you either find a new spot or get into a bail so hard that youll want to 
 save the replay and show all your friends how bad you suck!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Per_Killer
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 30, 2009 6:13 am PT
Review:  I bought this game right away, after just having played Skate at friends' houses wanting to get 
 the sequel in my own house so I could master the game and be as good as my friend, because frankly 
 I love skating and I love the realism and the focus on 'staying real' in the Skate-franchise.
 
  However, I was very dissapointed.
  LEARNING the game is not hard. However, mastering it is nearly impossible because of the insane 
 realism and sluggish controls. Mastering things, completing challenges etc. is more based on trial 
 and error. Alot of the latter. Sure it's nice to stick a cool trick, but the 20 failed attempts 
 beforehand is pure horror.
  The concept behind the controls are fun and engaging at first, but it's far from responsive. You'll 
 be scratching your head wondering why the hell things turned out the way they did on screen, because 
 you certainly was going for something else. 
  And the camera runs at it's own pace. If you make a sharp turn for example, the camera might just 
 slooowly roll around so that you can see what's ahead of you again. Chances are, by the time that 
 happens you'll be face-down in the concrete, cursing and wanting to throw your PS3-controller into 
 your wall for the 10th time during this session.
  
  All in all it's a good game for anyone who is willing to spend hours upon hours perfecting their 
 play just to be able to stick the tricks they want now and then, and for anyone else, stay away 
 and buy Dead Space and another game for the same price. Don't believe the hype, it's not worth 
 the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithbubbajones
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 12:12 am PT
Review:  When Skate was released back in 2007, it revolutionized the skateboarding game genre. With unparalleled 
 realism in its approach, controls that radically changed the way the game is played, and a really 
 awesome intro vid, Skate was awesome, and managed to snag my personal choice for runner up Game 
 of the year 2007. It was fantastic. For anybody who loved the first game as much as I did, or to 
 any newcomers, I've got some good news for you: Skate 2 is here, and while it's not as revolutionary 
 as the first game, it definitely is more refined, more enjoyable, and more kickass than its predecessor.
 
  
  What really sets skate apart from past skateboarding games, is its unique trick system. Implementing 
 a Fight-Night-esque control scheme in which the right analog controls the way your board flips. 
 There is, of course, no grind button. Using momentum and physics, just jumping on a rail will allow 
 you to grind. It takes some getting used to, but it becomes natural in time. It still works extremely 
 well in Skate 2, and with a few new improvements like the ability to use modifiers for footplants, 
 the whole core is still intact. Liptricks are now possible using the R1 button, and with those 
 previously mentioned modifiers, more extreme moves like inverts are available. The trick system 
 still feels really innovative and fresh, especially if you've never played skate before. Certain 
 tricks are hard to differentiate from each other, which can be a large issue for more trick oriented 
 goals in the career mode, and in the competitive game of S. K. A. T. E. (which is like HORSE) , but 
 when you're just cruising the city, looking for lines, it's a lot of fun and feels intuitive.
 
  
  There are many more places to get huge air in the New San Van. This opens up a new emphasis on 
 vertical moves, which were in Skate, but you never really had the opportunity to fully use them. 
 That can't be said about Skate 2. You will get high in the sky.
  
  In Skate 2, you can create your own skate from scratch using an impressive and deep interface, 
 allowing you to create whoever you want. In terms of the story, you play as the same skater from 
 the first game, and after spending 5 years in prison, you find that San Vanelona has changed. Earthquakes 
 have shifted the land, and the evil MongoCorp has taken over rebuilding the city, making it a not 
 so friendly place to skate. It's up to you to reclaim the city. It's best to call this an overall 
 setup for the story, in which case it does a great job.
  
  In Career mode, you skate around the city taking photo sessions to get onto covers of Thrasher 
 and The Skateboard Magazine, which has you jumping over fountains, speeding down mountains, and 
 the like. One issue found in the original, was that too many goals focussed on utilizing the trick 
 system to do a certain trick, which became infuriating because of its difficulty. That's been remedied 
 completely here. The career mode consists of photo shoots, jumping gaps, gaining high scores, and 
 doing races. The occasional game of SKATE pops up every now and then, but it's still good fun nonetheless. 
 This isn't to say the game is completely devoid of difficulty. What Skate did greatly was it captured 
 the essense of trail and error that comes with the real life sport, and that's in full effect yet 
 again. It's still tough to nail the perfect line that you want, but when you do, it's more satisfying 
 than any amount of blood or headshots can bring. It's exhilarating.
  
  New San Vanelona has really changed and matured into a skating haven. Each locale, from the Rez, 
 to Couger Mountain, Downtown, Old Town, and the Waterfront each have their own unique style. As 
 you may remember, the Rez was the perfect place to hit up for some speed. Couger Mountain is the 
 new spot for this, which then leads into the Rez for some awesome races. Old Town and Downtown 
 resemble Vancouver very well, capturing the city's urban feel and vibe. The Waterfront has been 
 completely recrafted, feeling like a beautiful and bright plaza perfect for skating. The most fun 
 you'll have in Skate 2 is just skating around searching for the perfect place to hit up.
  
  The ability to get off your board was oddly gone in the first game, but is now here in Skate 2. 
 The controls suck, your skater is slow, and he turns like an old lady, but hey, it's better than 
 not being able to do it altogether. You can finally go up a set of stairs! Ah, the beauty of evolution. 
 As seen in Tony Hawk's Proving Ground, you can now move objects around to create your own perfect 
 line, and then upload that spot online for people to try out. There are some costs to this, however, 
 and a few flaws. So that each object could be light enough for your skater to move around, simply 
 bumping into them will move them, throwing off your potential skate video. It's not a big problem, 
 but it's very unnecessary.
  
  Some new game modes made their way into the equation, but Hall of Meat is the true hero of the 
 day. You garner points for bails. Painful. This can honestly become an unhealthy addiction, as 
 it can be played offline with 4 people, or online with 6 friends. There are some undeniably satisfying 
 cliffs and walls to hit, so be on the lookout.
  
  Jumping online reminds me of Burnout Paradise. Hitting the select button brings up the online menu, 
 where you can then jump quickly into a freeskate session and setup your game there. It's a breeze. 
 Any game modes found in Skate 2 can be done online, with full headset support. There are freeskate 
 challenges, like Burnout's free drive mode, such as 6 skaters on a rail simultaneously. With modes 
 like SKATE, Hall of Meat, the ability to upload your own replays online, full stat collection, 
 (and did I mention Hall of Meat?) , Skate 2's online mode is fully robust and will keep you occupied 
 with limitless possibilities.
  
  The graphics engine has been booted up to 60 frames, and the lighting has been contrasted more, 
 giving off a sunset glare most of the time. It's a good looking game. The physics and animations, 
 as always, are fantastic, and while some of the texture work could be better, the anti aliasing 
 is great, and there is little blur. The camera remains unchanged, sometimes getting in the way, 
 but it maintains the rush of adrenaline that comes with going fast and hitting rails. The soundtrack 
 is no slouch, with some really great tunes, and the pro skaters in the game are all voiced by the 
 skaters themselves. It's very authentic.
  
  I must give my regards to EA Black Box. It's because of them that Skate and Skate 2 have had this 
 hilarious, light hearted, laid back personality to it. It's a game about the fun. Hanging with 
 buds online, playing a game of Hall of Meat. The funky soundtrack. The funny situations. Skate 
 may live on, but I fear that the personality aspect and awesome vibe may go with Black Box. A moment 
 of silence for an awesome developer.
  
  Skate 2 isn't a revolution, but it is a damn fine game. It's the first must buy of 2009, because 
 Black Box's swansong project is as good as they come. It didn't fix all of the series' issues, 
 as the camera problems remain. However, it's a big upgrade to an amazing gameplay experience. Skate 
 2 is recommendable to anybody who doesn't have a nasty hate for skateboarding. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: born2roll
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 7:29 pm PT
Review:  Skate 2 is a lot of fun to just skate around and do tricks. Story mode is good although I am not 
 that far in it and find myself just skating around for about 30 min in between challenges, which 
 is not a bad thing. Getting off your board is a good addition, although the controls on foot are 
 very clumsy. A few frustrating things I find are: sometimes its hard to see in front of you to 
 line up a grind, controls seem almost too sensitive where that the slightest movement of the joystick 
 will put you off your line, and curbs. I hate curbs in this game, if you bail on them, you respawn 
 right in front of them with no momentum to ollie onto the sidewalk. Also they make some spots hard 
 to hit because you get speed on the road, ollie to sidewalk then have to ollie again immediately 
 to hit a rail/ledge/stairs or whatever you want to trick over. They can also be hard to see sometimes.
 
  
  Overall it is an improvement over skate 1, however I had fairly high expectations that I feel the 
 game did not meet. Nonetheless, go play it and maybe next year EA will get it right with Skate 
 3.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_pWnzz_YoU
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 11:56 pm PT
Review:  Right from the opening cinematic you knew this was going to be a good game. With pro skaters playing 
 the various roles of inmates and prison guards, EA and Blackbox really went over the top.
  
  The gameplay of Skate 2 is essentially the same as Skate, which isn't a bad thing. In fact, 
 it's a great thing. And to add something new to the franchise, they threw in some new tricks, better 
 customization options, and a revamped, beautiful San Velona. The trick stick is still essentially 
 the same, with a few new flip tricks here and there. Although it can get rather annoying when you're 
 trying to pull off a certain trick when doing various goals, because the analog stick sometimes 
 doesn't go the way you want it to. But when you finally land that trick or line you've been working 
 on for some time, it's very rewarding. And if you want, you can edit the replay and save it so 
 you can watch it later, or share it with people around the world. The customization is better, 
 with new clothes and facial modification options, including the ability to mod your deck the way 
 you like. They could've thrown in some more hairstyles though. When you're done with modding your 
 skater, you can finally head out to San Velona, the same setting as the first Skate, only this 
 time, it looks better. From trees and other beautiful foliage to downtown, the open world of San 
 Velona fails to disappoint. And Skate veterans will be pleased to find some old skating spots they 
 may have tricked on in the first Skate. The one major thing I was disappointed in was how clumsy 
 the off-board movement was. If you're running straight and you want to quickly turn left, you're 
 skater has to stop and turn first instead of just running in that direction . But it's better than 
 not being able to get off your board at all, and seeing how it's they're first shot at it, it's 
 forgiveable. And before I forget to mention this, almost every bail you make is epic, in a very 
 hilarious way thanks to the great animations and physics.
  
  Skate 2 provides Skate veterans with old memories from Skate, and newcomers a chance to learn the 
 basics and get out into the world a. s. a. p. With a great blend of gorgeous graphics, addictive gameplay 
 and great physics. Skate 2 makes a great game, whether you like skating games or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToneLoki
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 9:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game for a about 4 months, and I couldn't be happier with it. I have 
 literally been playing for 2 days straight minus sleep and quick meals..
  
  The game is challenging enough to keep you thirsty for more. The city where the game takes place 
 in is HUGE. You can literally cruise around and just shred the city, you can just keep moving, 
 there never seems to be that invisible wall boundary. 
  
  The gear customization is limitless with the online graphics creator. 
  
  Replay movies, pictures, 
 custom skate spots --you can upload them all and share with your buddies, a good amount of multiplayer/online 
 options and game modes is always nice for some competition.
  
  When you land that big trick you've been gunning for, you get that feeling of pride and accomplishment. 
 You have to earn it in this game! There's no beginners luck.
  
  The graphics and sound are sweet. The music is a nice mix of different genres from old-skool rap, 
 funk, rock, wizard metal -- it serves nicely as background tunes, and not blasting in your ears.
 
  
  There are some minor little quirks that can sometimes bug you, like facing the wall and having 
 to turn around, but the these do not touch the awesomeness of the experience.
  
  I am loving this game right now! 
  It is A LOT of fun! 
  Highly recommended! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dboy012
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 25, 2009 4:24 pm PT
Review:  I've thoroughly enjoyed my time playing Skate 2. The open environment and room for creativity make 
 it super fun! Also, the career mode is pretty diverse and there are always new things to try. Some 
 of the challenges can be a bit difficult, but the nice thing is that you can always come back to 
 them some other time. I think there's a good mix of realism and video game play that make it challenging 
 but also not too hard. I've found the replay editor to be a little sketchy, but I'm not about to 
 save many replays so no biggie for me. The pedestrians can also be a little cumbersome when you're 
 trying to own certain areas, such as bus stops or awnings, but eventually you get around it. Other 
 than that I haven't run into too many annoyances yet. I could see myself actually wanted to finish 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dahra10
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This is Skate 2. This game comes after the normal game Skate. After Skate came out Tony Hawk could 
 not sell another Tony Hawk game because how much buzz Skate was getting. Now they bring Skate 2 
 and Skate It. Witch will bring chances down of another Tony Hawk game. Now to get to the game Skate 
 2. Skate 2 is a good game. Its hard but worth it. The new feature that lets you get of your board 
 is very big. I could not get a good view of this game because my PS3 was making me very mad. There 
 is no cheats. There is download able content witch gets you to unlock every thing. You need buy 
 this game if you want a challenge but if you want a easy game then do not buy this. But you need 
 to get Skate 1 if you want to know what happened in Skate 2. And you need to get at least half 
 way the story mode to know what happened my score is 8.5 i hope you like...... bye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickatcool
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:50 pm PT
Review:  This company came out with a great first game, and they took all the bad things from the first 
 one and improved them and added some other features to come out with this one! This beats all Tony 
 Hawk crap and shows how sport games are meant to be. They didnt make this game for publicity or 
 anything else, they did it for us, and money of course! They didnt just do the least they possibly 
 could to come out with it like Tony Hawk did, this is a real legit game! I'm so glad that there 
 are some good gaming companies out there, sports wise, besides the NFL games. Another good thing 
 about this game is it takes skill, you don't just press a button and do a 360 misty flip, it takes 
 real skill to do this. I hope they come out with more after this. I love all the new added tricks 
 like fingerflips and footplants. I love how i can just jump in and start making huge combos and 
 post them on the internet for all the world to see. You can even put pictures on your boards and 
 shirts. I can go to the website and look up videos by their tags, like death, or realistic. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
