-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: SOCOM: U.S. Navy SEALs Confrontation
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/socomconfrontation/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Classic SOCOM action remains intact.
 Variety of guns and gear let you tweak your soldier in meaningful ways.
 Large, well-designed maps.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Myriad network issues.
 Lag sometimes spoils combat.
 Stat-tracking is broken.
 Movement can be awkward.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 21, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 6.6, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 7.8, 1,442 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: Slant Six
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Oct 14, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The excitement and tension of SOCOM's signature combat are blunted by technical issues in the series' 
 multiplayer-only PlayStation 3 debut. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       SOCOM: U. S. Navy SEALs Confrontation Review for PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                 
                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =      
         The Good            Classic SOCOM action remains intact  &nbsp;      Variety of guns and 
 gear let you tweak your soldier in meaningful ways  &nbsp;      Large, well-designed maps.     
            The Bad            Myriad network issues  &nbsp;      Lag sometimes spoils combat  &nbsp; 
      Stat-tracking is broken  &nbsp;      Movement can be awkward.                      After The 
 Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?               Update:  Trophy Support    Posted: Feb 
 4, 2009 11:44 am PT      A few months after arriving in stores, SOCOM: Confrontation was updated 
 to version 1.3 via a free patch that, among other things, added trophies to the game. There are 
 37 trophies in all, including a platinum one that can only be earned by first getting the other 
 36. &nbsp;         &laquo; Prev Update &nbsp;|&nbsp;  All Updates (2)  &nbsp;|&nbsp;  Next Update 
 &raquo;            

  SOCOM fans who have been eagerly awaiting the venerable series' return to consoles should be warned: 
 You may not get all that you've hoped for in Confrontation. The beating heart of the series -- the 
 realistic, tightly wound tactical combat -- is still healthy, but Confrontation's arteries are clogged 
 by network issues, control hang-ups, and graphical hitches. Those who enjoyed previous SOCOM games 
 may be able to push through this malaise, but with no single-player campaign to cut their teeth 
 on, newcomers will likely find the game inaccessible as its myriad problems compound the already 
 steep learning curve. Though there is still some life in it, Confrontation is a disappointingly 
 anemic entry in this historically hot-blooded series.  

           Even if you get the drop on your enemy, it ain't over 'til one of you hits the ground. 

  A multiplayer-only shooter lives and dies by the pace and precision of combat. SOCOM has always 
 strived for a realistic feel by arming players with finely tuned real-world guns, limiting their 
 speed to reasonably human levels and making them as vulnerable to bullets as actual soldiers. Hostile 
 encounters are over in a matter of seconds, so positioning and accuracy are paramount to survival. 
 At its best, Confrontation stands on this knife edge of precision and imbues firefights with a 
 tense, desperate energy, amplified by the fact that in many matches, you won't respawn if killed. 
 The thrill of victory is exulting; the agony of defeat is crushing.  

  Alas, these emotional highs and lows are often muted by Confrontation's technical problems. Hiccups 
 of lag will sometimes pop up during intense encounters, turning a tightly contested fight to the 
 death into a crapshoot. In a match where you respawn, this is merely frustrating; in one where 
 death means becoming a spectator until the round is over, it's downright aggravating. These hitches 
 can also cause control issues; you may find that your reloading process gets interrupted or that 
 you've brought up a screen-commandeering command menu rather than initiated voice chat. The margin 
 for combat error is so slim that any of these snags can sabotage even the most skilled player. 
 It's possible to savor many a match without encountering these issues, but the times you do get 
 hung up are sure to leave a sour taste in your mouth.  

  Before you jump into combat, you'll want to customize your loadout. SOCOM's signature depth in 
 this department is back on display, offering you a number of guns that look and sound realistic, 
 as well as a full complement of scopes, sights, and other attachments. In addition to customizing 
 your primary and secondary weapons, you can choose two gear items from a diverse list of grenades, 
 explosives, and rocket launchers. You can choose to be quick and lightly armored, slow and heavily 
 armored, or anywhere in between. These options significantly affect your play style, and adjusting 
 them (either from the initial menu or after you die in a match) is quick, easy, and engaging.  
 

           Laser sights, suppressors, and a gold watch. Now you're cooking with gas!      

  Once 
 equipped, you'll dive into the PlayStation Network in search of a game. This can prove to be time-consuming 
 as you choose an appropriate channel, find a game with an opening, and wait to spawn into the action. 
 Fortunately, there are plenty of players online, and communicating with them via headset or preset 
 text commands works smoothly. Despite -- or perhaps because of -- the robust population, there are 
 a host of network issues to contend with, from pace-killing lag to straight-up system crashes. 
 We played for three full days and hard crashed at least twice each day, losing our session stats 
 (only recorded during ranked games) in the process. Though some players appear to have earned ranks 
 and joined clans, we had difficulty with both, meaning that all of our matches were stand-alone 
 affairs, with no lasting benefits or repercussions.  

  The conflicts you do engage in will unfold on maps of varying sizes, each depicting a different 
 war-torn environment. Many of them are updated versions of maps from previous SOCOM games, and 
 they are all cleanly textured, though not quite beautiful. Each is also well designed enough to 
 simultaneously create chokepoints and allow for diverse pathfinding. The draw distance is formidable, 
 and you'll find yourself spotting enemies that are far outside the range of most weapons. This 
 makes the sniper rifle very dangerous, so you'll have to be extra alert, hoping to spot enemy snipers 
 before it's too late and the death camera swings away from your corpse to show you the position 
 of the enemy you failed to notice.  

  Death comes quickly to the careless, and players will have to embrace this harsh truth to stand 
 a chance of survival. Sticking with your teammates is essential, and all of the varying mission 
 objectives are more easily accomplished when you work as a unit. Though many players seem to default 
 to the run-and-gun tactics prevalent in other online shooters, some verbal nudging (or a few failed 
 missions) is usually enough to inspire a little unity. Achieving victory as a unit is satisfying, 
 even more so when you know it's because you had your teammate's back and gunned down his would-be 
 assassin.  

           Going prone will increase your accuracy, but decrease your mobility.      

  The reality 
 that you could be killed at any time ratchets up the tension a few degrees, but it also fuels the 
 fires of frustration when you find yourself getting hung up on environmental obstacles. Despite 
 the third-person viewpoint and your ability to jump and climb over impedances, you'll still find 
 navigation to be somewhat finicky. Rubble that could be easily stepped over might require a full-on 
 leap, and a curb that seems easy to jump may demand a time-consuming clamber. Small spaces can 
 be similarly misleading, and just because you can see between balcony railings or two adjacent 
 boxes, it doesn't mean you can shoot through the empty space. The Sixaxis-controlled lean allows 
 some flexibility, though maneuvering into a good lean-friendly position will often leave you exposed 
 to the very line of fire you're trying to evade.  

  Confrontation tries to re-create the wire-tight combat that made the SOCOM series so popular, but 
 as of now, it hasn't succeeded. There are excellent moments to be found, and the heart of the action 
 still beats strongly. However, the positive elements are overshadowed by pervasive network problems. 
 Folks interested in accessorizing can pick up the Bluetooth headset retail bundle for $59.99 (the 
 headset alone retails for $49.99) and get the game for cheap, but even at the discounted download 
 price of $39.99, Confrontation is hard to recommend.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (156 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: ZedX-14Pilot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 3:07 pm PT
Review:  Let's be clear, Sony should NEVER have released this game. It was so broken, I about took it back 
 for a full refund. But, I did get the headset with it which was fifty bucks by itself. So, I kept 
 it. But until this past Easter weekend, it hadn't seen anymore time since the first time I popped 
 it in my PS3 the day I bought it. I just couldn't believe Sony let this game through in the state 
 it was released in. Trust me, I had nothing but bad stuff to say about this game, and as far as 
 I am concerned, any excuse as to why this game hit the street in that condition would have been 
 completely unacceptable.
  
  Now, they just released version 1.42 recently, and I must say, the game has finally become something 
 worth spending time with. I still have a few minor issues with the game, but the network and many 
 other technical problems that made this game almost entirely unplayable, seem to have been dealt 
 with adequately. I played a couple of hours on the European/English servers this weekend, and not 
 only DIDN'T get kicked once, but actually had a smooth and enjoyable play experience the whole 
 time I played. It is finally tracking my stats, and I am no longer being kicked out of every room 
 I try to enter. Bottom line, I won't go as far as to say it is completely fixed, but it is definitely 
 now worth the price of admission.
  
  I commend you Sony and Slant 6 for working hard on making this game relevant again. They are hard 
 at work on version 1.5, and I am sure they are probably working on some more maps. I look forward 
 to spending a lot more quality time with this game in the coming months. I give this game about 
 an 8.3 now that the major issues of the game have been addressed. Go get yourself a copy and we 
 will see you online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut_032
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 7:04 pm PT
Review:  Back in the glory days of the Playstation 2's lifespan, if you were looking for the definitive 
 multiplayer experience, the Socom series was the way to go. Each entry in the series followed a 
 similar formula: a great tactical single-player experience backed up by solid online play. Socom 
 3 beefed up the formula by offering vehicular combat sequences to the single player and multiplayer 
 experiences, and increased the player cap to 32. In late 2006, Combined Assault essentially perfected 
 the formula by adding the option of 4-player co-op for the story mode. After a few years of absence, 
 Socom is back on Sony's new platform. Unfortunately, Socom Confrontation hardly feels like an improvement, 
 and in some ways, it feels like the series has taken a few steps backwards.
  
  The Socom games on the Playstation 2 made interesting experiments with team-based tactical shooting, 
 voice-commands, weapon customizations, and even vehicular combat that was integrated into the single-player 
 mode. Well, to make things simple, Confrontation has no single player mode, not even a co-op component. 
 Right away, this is easily the biggest disappointment about confrontation. Seeing that we're well 
 into the "next-generation" of games, multiplayer components seem to be all the rage, and that's 
 fine. But keep in mind, Confrontation is a full-price game, which makes the omission of any campaign 
 mode a real cheap-shot to the wallet area. For a full-price game without single-player, the mutliplayer 
 had better be a "damn-good" experience.
  
  The good news is, the multiplayer experience is solid; it works well for the most part. There have 
 been a few changes however; for instance, the vehicular combat seen in Socom 3 and Combined Assault 
 is gone. The maps, while still supporting 32 players, feel a lot tighter than in previous games. 
 Whereas Socom 3 and Combined Assault offered gigantic (often empty,) battlefields, Confrontation 
 scales down the surface area, adding more tight quarters, while still retaining the opportunity 
 for some long-distance sniping. The result is an experience that feels a lot more like Socom 2's 
 gameplay. Those who played the previous games will be happy to know that the controls retain 98% 
 similarity, with the exception of melee attacks being mapped to the L3 stick, and fire-mode/weapon 
 organizing to the circle button. 
  
  Confrontation is veteran-friendly, but also simple enough that players new to the series won't 
 have too much trouble jumping in. Those new to the series will easily find a weapon that suits 
 their tastes; and there are quite a lot of them. The weapon customization from Socom 3 also returns 
 here, as players are given 2 slots per weapon to attach a number of different scopes, laser pointers, 
 grips and grenade launchers. When first starting out, players are given the opportunity to "create" 
 their own character, either a Commando or Mercenary, and give them armor and different types of 
 clothing. The character creation is a nice addition to the Socom series, but doesn't feel as robust 
 as what could be found in Rainbow Six Vegas 2.
  
  Finding a game to play could either be simple, or time-consuming (not necessarily a bad thing) . 
 You have the quick match option, or as in previous titles, you can pick a specific lobby to join 
 (US East/West, Canada East/West, etc.) Each lobby holds up to 256 players, and is usually full 
 regardless of the time of day you happen to play at. Since the game was released, there have been 
 a few patches and updates put up for download, and for the most part, the lag and glitches appear 
 to be fixed. This however might be entirely subjective depending on your connection, and the lobby 
 you're playing from. I have encountered some matches that had a little bit of lag, but nothing 
 that really caused too much of a problem. The loading times might also vary from time to time. 
 For the most part, running and shooting plays out relatively smoothly.
  
  The graphics are well done, but nothing spectacular. The elements of a next-gen visual experience 
 are there; the environments and structures are normal-mapped, and there are some nice lighting 
 effects. However, the character models look absolutely brutal compared to those found in other 
 third-person shooters. The audio component is lacking the ambient soundtrack found in previous 
 games, but the gunfire and explosions all sound crisper than ever. 
  
  If you're only thinking about buying this game now, be prepared for a mandatory install process, 
 a 2-fold patch download and install, and a lot of waiting. From the time you pop the disc in, until 
 you actually get to play your first match, you may have to wait roughly an hour and a half for 
 everything to download and install (this of course again depends on your connection speed) . 
  
  If you loved the tight-quarters action from Socom 2, you will feel right at home with Confrontation. 
 Those who grew accustomed to the long-distance fire fights found in Socom 3/Combined Assault will 
 have a little bit of catching up to do. While it's definitely great to see the core multiplayer 
 experience carry over from last-gen intact, the formula is starting to get a little bit dated. 
 Since the last Socom title, the shooter genre, and the PS3 itself has seen a lot of great shooters 
 released, some that really make Confrontation seem a little bit inferior. With the technical horsepower 
 provided by the PS3, it would have been great to see Slant-Six improve upon the mechanics that 
 previous entries brought to the table and really take advantage of some new technology. Instead 
 what they've produced is a rather hollow, half-finished experience that leaves you hoping for a 
 lot more, especially for the price. Overall, what you get is a functional online third-person shooter. 
 But that's all you get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruxster
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:08 am PT
Review:  I have played quite a few FPS in my time and there are a number that stand out, and given the fact 
 its been a while since people have been saying they are all the same, Socom brings with it a sense 
 of team camaradarie, you have to work as a team in this title or there is just no point in switching 
 it on, the last guy said he took it back after one day or so, and recommended call of duty.
  Yea call of duty is a good game as we know and love to play, but this boy as let it go to early. 
 yea it is difficult to get used to the controlls and the views at which you can be seen are at 
 first frustrating and annoying sometimes.
  But you have the same advantage, remember that! and this is what makes it different in one way, 
 you cant just sprint round corners as you will more often than not get a head full of lead and 
 you wont know where it come from until you see youve got 5mins to wait for your next spawn. if 
 you have good enough players on your team that is. so PATENTS! this game requires patents, good 
 accurate communications and solid organisation. there are serious clans in this title, boys who 
 like top competition.
  Choose your clan recruits carefully if you want to survive. 
  
  Theres good news in the pipeline for new patches and maps on the way I hear so for me this already 
 thouroghly enjoyable title will just get better.
  
  Probably the most underrated war title to date.
  
  Lets have it boys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hokedonapahonik
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2009 7:18 am PT
Review:  For having the SOCOM name, this is really a disappointment. I boughtg it on Friday, Loaded it Saturday, 
 stared playing it sunday and returned it monday. The guy at the store even remembered me as to 
 why I am returning it. He agreed with some of my complaints and said the game had trouble from 
 the beginning. The difficulty of the controls, the steep learning curve, not having a choice of 
 the type of game to play, just makes the amazing graphics second rate.... The amount of Hard Drive 
 download time for the PS3 version took my system about 2 1/2 hours, and it was all a wash as the 
 game pretty much sucked. A tutorial or better server options as in the previous SOCOM would have 
 been much more preferred. I will be sticking with the Call of Duty Series until this disappointment 
 has been rectified. Buy Modern Warfare or World At War if your looking for a more user friendly 
 fun FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 26, 2009 1:11 am PT
Review:  Socom confontation is a stealthy tps witch as only being an online kinda reuins the whole experiance.
 
  
  Story- well ther isnt one this for me really reuins it if you really like a good campaigne this 
 is not the game for you.
  
  one of the good things about this game is the fully costamizable characters and the abilaty to 
 have 3 attachments on most weapons is amzing.
  
  Online- 32 player online games would be good if the game was not reuined by huge online lag witch 
 made for terrible gameplay. However when you look past this you will find yourself playing for 
 hours and at sometimes can be fun.
  
  Doesnt give much to the harcore socom fans but theres just enough to keep you hooked to bad about 
 the lack of story mode witch i hope they will change in the next one.
  
  Deffinatley rent before purchacing
  why the hell do they make the trophies so hard 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lockjawjak
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 19, 2009 12:08 pm PT
Review:  Many people see all the technical issues with the game, but that was with the 1.0 version. Recently 
 it has been updated to a 1.41 patch which has fixed a lot of problems in the game, granted there 
 are still technical problems. To me it is still a great multiplayer game, because it's a game that 
 relies on tactics and it makes the game much more fun when you join a good clan and have a buddy 
 to roll with. Sure it's slow sometimes, because there are no respawns, but just think of it as 
 a highly updated CS game. I think that if more people let the game grow on you they would find 
 it really fun, also new patches are coming out with new guns and maps. This isn't as bad some critics 
 has said. It's simply a great team 3rd person shooter multiplayer game for those who are into that 
 style of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElectroFilmsCom
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  ScamCom for PS3 is just that, a SCAM. it launched broken, missing most features advertised with 
 the game. can you imagine launch a mario bros game, only to offer mario as a playable character 
 in a year? this game was launched with Slant Six Studios knowing it was incomplete. why would they 
 Scam consumers you ask? cause they dont care. many gamers bought the game only to find out it was 
 unplayable. but it dosent matter to them and sony , cause the sales were made. the game lags, its 
 impossible to join a game, aim is off, it freezes, the list goes on and on and on and on. bottom 
 line is Slant Six Game motto, release half a game and develop the rest while selling the broken 
 half. Slant Six Studio and Sony should be ashamed for ripping off thousands of gamers with full 
 knowledge of a broken product. never trust Slant Six Studios with any game again. fool me one, 
 shame on you, fool me twice, shame on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IAMADEUM
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 9:47 pm PT
Review:  This game is quite amazing, on first glance. However, it does have monstrous defects. One of these 
 is the fact that your accuracy level, no matter what the gun, is pretty close to missing the broad 
 side of a barn. The sounds are amazing, with bullets echoing through the buildings, and even a 
 friendly's voice echoes if he talks to you once he's around the corner. The sounds will make you 
 wet yourself a little. However, as I said before, you cannot aim with any amount of efficiency 
 in this game. If you do aim down your sites, the game automatically takes you out of your sites 
 after a half-dozen shots. And even then, aiming is inaccurate at any range further than point-blank. 
 There is a fantastic selection of guns and upgrades available to you, but that cannot make up for 
 the laggy, point-and-shoot game play involved. Overall it's an "okay" game, but nothing more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powlly
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  There were a lot of bugs and glitches as there is with most betas. Being an on-line game only I 
 wish there was a single player option so I could play something while they are fixing the problems 
 with the on-line. Anyway there isn't, so I and everyone else waited for the glitches, freezing 
 and other little problems with the game to be fixed, which most of them have been. I'm a little 
 disappointed that one of the main problems in the game still seems to be there, hence freezing 
 whenever an enemy is nearby. You know, you start shooting the enemy and you freeze, yet he gets 
 to still shoot you, and you die. This is a great game, I just wish they would fix this one problem 
 that has been with the game since the Beta. I would much rather have that fixed than a reward system 
 ie. Badges, trophies etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: totaleklypse
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:15 am PT
Review:  How dare you slant six take such a big franchise and run it into the ground. this is a updated 
 review by the way. so here we are 6 months from release and still unplayable. why did the beta 
 work better than the official release? WHY WHY WHY. why are half the things advertised on the back 
 of the box still missing? anyone? simple. slant six couldnt develop its way out of a porta potty. 
 the graphics are washed out. the maps uninspired. guns and modifications are nonexistant. lag destroys 
 any chance of fun that could be had. you had your chance slant six and you blew it. i mean really 
 for a laugh watch the making of video, the part where they fire like 300 different guns. then ask 
 yourself why they spent SOO much time and cash to get those nice detailed sound effects and gun 
 models... but yet there are like 6 guns total in game. actually to be honest i didnt rate this 
 a 1.0 for the simple fact the sound was kick butt in it. well that and i ended up with a pimpin 
 headset and a coaster with my purchase. can i rate the headset by itself hmm? i think i will. a 
 10. that thing is sick. headset and room mic mode are beyond my expectations. thanks sony u made 
 some great gear. as for slant six... dont let me catch u on the street. k i'm done 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 1bigsmoke55
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:16 pm PT
Review:  the long awaited PlayStation 3 exclusive, Socom: confrontation has been released. i bought this 
 game along with a ps3, and hands down, it is one of the best online games to come around. but there 
 are some pros and cons. one unique feature that sets it apart from others shooters is the ability 
 to be other countries special forces, such as the SAS. One downfall is that to get certain guns, 
 you have to join that force, (ex: the Gmp. you have to be with the KsK) . the levels are big, but 
 not enough and the environments are beautiful. There are seven levels included are Fallen, urban 
 wasteland, and the long return of Crossroads. The 32-player modes give that war feel. There are 
 seven different game types, suppression, demolition, elimination, control, breach, escort, and extraction. 
 The weapon customization shine bright here. You could have suppressors, grenade launchers, scopes, 
 front grips, and many more. The character customization shines also, but again, you need to join 
 certain fractions to get certain clothing items, (ex: bandanna for face. SAS) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superlobo
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 15, 2009 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Okay first of all this is my first Socom, and I got it cause I heard how huge the community is and 
 it's a huge hit for the Playstation. I've had the game for a week
  
  First the good:
  The game has ton of Players , thousands and thousands of them and plenty of servers to pick from, 
 you won't have a problem finding a game to play. They have Japanese rooms, Spanish rooms.. The 
 whole world really. I played for a week and I did not get not one disconnect at all.
  The first night I played I told people I was a noob and got invited to be in a clan within 30 mins. 
 People can be really cool and help you out a lot (maybe I got luck cause I've heard other wise 
 from different people) 
  You can customize you weapons more than Call of duty and change your gear (armor) to your liking. 
 
  The sounds of the weapons are very good and if your in a room it echo's very nicely . The headsets 
 are the best for the PS3 and sound very clear and if you get close enough to other player in the 
 game you can hear him (or her) even if they are on the other team.
  I didn't notice any bugs that I been reading from the forums, I guess the patches fix them.
  
 
  Now the bad: 
  I would run into some very bad lag that in times I would have the drop on someone and I would freeze 
 up and he would kill me instead. Or I would have someone in my sight and he just disappears or 
 teleports 30 feet away. That would happen in almost every game and it just would kill my game and 
 fun a lot. 
  It take a long, long time to load a game.
  The graphics did not impress me at all (my opinion , it look like PS 2.65) , I thought the screen 
 to customize your character look very muggy and bad. The graphics would come in layers looking 
 very dumb. 
  There is only Seven maps. Even though they are HUGE, I felt like I played them all ten times in 
 one night.
  Not that many modes to play. I think there is about 4 or 5 modes. Vs team death, demolition, hostage 
 and maybe some others I can't remember. 
  It's a third person shooter, I couldn't get use to it (I'm a FPS guy) .
  The hit system is off. 
 I would shoot an enemy in front of me, my cross hairs would be red, I'll miss hit. A lot of the 
 time. 
  I had lots of games where most people didn't have Headsets.. it's a team game, you need to communicate 
 to each other. It was too quiet. 
  
  You'll have some fun and good games here and there. I personally couldn't really get into it. For 
 the next one they should have a offline story mode and a 5 player online Co-op mode following the 
 same story and buff up the graphics and not make it sooo hard to get trophies.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: m_seats
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 7, 2009 4:34 am PT
Review:  Great game. The only thing for me is that the load times are a lil long and sometimes the game 
 can be a bit jumpy, but not too often! Got the game on eBay for 18 bucks. By far, the best game 
 for your money. I would have paid 60! Tons of different gameplay. Controls can be a little bit 
 better. I wish they were more like call of duty with the grenades. Its sometimes takes a bit to 
 long to equip grenades when you really need them and the have to equip back to your primary weapon. 
 All in all, the very best 3rd person shooter out today. Since the patch and the servers seem like 
 they're working better, i had to lay down the call of duty and pick this up again! I just hope 
 that there's some downloadable maps and guns. More guns definately need to be in the game! I wouldn't 
 lie to you, so go out and find the game for 20 bucks somewhere and you will not be disappointed! 
 Sony did a great job. I have both the 360 and PS3 and I really like the PS3 online over xbox live. 
 But thats another time and another place. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kratos_PS9
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Maaaybe, maybe not depends on who you are...... Its aight. I mean with lag and glitches here and 
 there its the Socom we've always played, but i can see myself looking pass that and playing along 
 side my friends. Now for those who are hardcore Socom fans... You may not enjoy this because well 
 because..... i dont know. Oh i do know, because it may not have more maps for its release also the 
 1.30 patch should have already been included in the launch of the game i have no idea. but other 
 than that i enjoy a tactical challenge when comes to 3rd person shooter games at its here. Great 
 team work can get you a long way in this game, if your good and your team sucks you suck. if your 
 good and you communicate with your team your teams good. u no longer suck. this game is packing 
 with trophy support thats no walk in the park. Its going to have glued to the tv set even if you 
 have class in 8 am. ugh!!! trying to get these little guys. i still think it has a lot that needs 
 to be added and that more will come in time. Oh yeah another thing I say to you, please communicate 
 in this game and make friends, if not these so called team mates of yours aren't going to back 
 your ass up. and that's a proven fact in the Socom series.
  - CaptainKratos 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Decro111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 30, 2009 11:04 pm PT
Review:  This is a review written after the game has been updated and all those bugs that came at the release 
 date are fixed. This review is a 2009 review.
  
  Graphics. The game just look amazing, even 1080p is badass, I played the game in different resolutions, 
 and even with standard 480i the game just look amazing, characters look great, maps look great, 
 (also largely well designed maps) . Although you don't see the guns much, if you zoom in, you can 
 see that they look pretty cool. 9/10 in graphics. 9/10 because the one little problem I noticed 
 was that when you are running, it looks a little washed out. I guess it makes sense to look like 
 that since you cannot clearly see when running in real life too, but it did look like a little 
 bug. 9/10
  
  Controls. I say its hard, because for new people it will take them a while to learn the controls, 
 but its nothing impossible, after the release of an update which disable the Sixaxis, it seemed 
 like players really enjoyed that. you can now peek like in the old Socom games, by pressing the 
 left and right buttons in the D-Pad, but you can always turn the Sixaxis on any time you want, 
 I myself rarely use the Sixaxis to peek, but I did find it useful to when you need to change stances, 
 if you wanna put you head down more than what it can when you crouch, you can move the control, 
 make it face down, that is useful at some points. 8.5/10
  
  Gameplay. Even after the update, the game still faces some lag problems, but compare to what it 
 was before, it is really good, nothing a final patch can't solve if it ever comes out, but the 
 game is still pretty good, lag problems, I notice myself, will be a little more serious if the 
 host has a bad connection, but that rarely happens now. The game is playable and offers lots of 
 fun. One thing thought, when you are playing you really have to talk if you have a mic, it is important 
 to let your friends know where you are. If you do not have a mic, just stick to someone and play 
 as a team, because teamwork is really the key to this game. 8.5/10
  
  Maps. 8.5 Although the maps are well designed and look like nice, that's pretty much all they do, 
 you cannot really interact with a lot of things, you can only open doors and press a detonator 
 to blow up something. Guns from fallen soldiers can only be picked up, and that is pretty much 
 all you can pick up in the game. Also, there is not a lot of maps, for a Socom game, expect maps 
 to be released later, but a couple more couldn't have hurt, but this is not bad, you can play in 
 various modes which will keep people busy.
  
  Experience 9/10. Is a nice experience, the game offers a lot, with trophies now here, its really 
 going to make you come back and play more. I will mention some little problems that will annoy 
 the hell out of people; night vision here sucks, and there is also no thermal vision (if there 
 is, is probably something you unlock, which I have not done yet) , There is a Mercenary shotgun, 
 that for a shotgun, it has a hell of a good range, a couple shot from fair distance will blast 
 you ass. Also, sometimes you will think you reloaded correctly, and when you are in front of the 
 enemy, you character will start reloading, this also rarely happen but like I said, it will annoy 
 you.
  
  8.5/10, if people until now have not played the game, you should check it out.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: prate20
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 24, 2009 10:51 am PT
Review:  Socom is back with Confrontation, and although it doesn't do anything truly revolutionary, it does 
 alot to get back to its roots. Confrontation does away with the enormous maps of Socom 3 and Combined 
 Assault and ditches vehicles to promote gun battles and strategy. It also introduces some new weapons, 
 a fully customizable loadout where you can change features such as your face, type of armor (heavy, med, light) , 
 and guns and attachments. Almost every room you go into each player has their own unique look, 
 which is something to be said in this day of respawns and 'classes/kits' for games. The graphics 
 are also very good for a multiplayer game, most games tend to look like a shadow of themselves 
 online, however Socom looks great from the first screen to the final round (although it was designed 
 for online only so this should be expected) . The game has game mode types such as control points, 
 elimination, supression, demolition, breach, VIP escort, and VIP extraction, the differences being 
 the Mercs try to kill the VIP's in escort, and they try to keep them in extraction. Also all the 
 game modes can be played on all the maps, making for a very different feeling all the time. This 
 game reminds me alot of Socom 1 and 2 more so then the later Socom's due to its 3 maps from the 
 earlier games (Desert Glory, Frostfire, and Crossroads) and gameplay. I beta'd this game (it had 
 alot of lag issues, luckily they seem to be fixed now) and bought it on launch day although I didn't 
 play it much until a few weeks ago because the launch had alot of problems, and I'm sure you can 
 read about them on any review site. However, the game now looks like it should have when it was 
 released and I can honestly say that any Socom fan or any of the past games will probably fall 
 in love with this game and newcomers should also find something very unique in Socom. There's nothing 
 out there like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven28256
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 7:50 pm PT
Review:  This is my first outing into the SOCOM series. I never got into the PS2 games because I never had 
 the hardware to get online, so I figured it would be a waste of money to buy a game from a series 
 that, while it has a single player, is best known for multiplayer. My friends tell me that the 
 SOCOM games made by the original developers are better, but based on my experience with Confrontation, 
 I doubt I'll be looking into this series when the next installment comes around. 
  
  I'll start with the good before driving a wooden stake of hatred into its beating heart. Firstly, 
 the version I got was a good deal, in theory. I bought the bundle version, which includes the game 
 and a headset for $60. The headset is pretty good, and gets the job done. It can be a bit of a 
 pain in the ass to recharge though, given the EXTREMELY limited length of the charge cable. 
  
  The graphics are decent enough. The character models look good, but the environments and textures 
 are a bit iffy. The texture pop-in are also atrocious. I think we have found a game that is actually 
 worse than anything running on Unreal Engine 3 when it comes to texture pop-in. 
  
  Now, when you can get the damn game to work, it is pretty fun. This is the first SOCOM game to 
 be online only, and it had the potential to be one of the best online games on the PS3. You create 
 custom loadouts/classes for both the two factions: Commandos and Mercenaries. Each side has a lot 
 of weapons, gear, and attachments to choose from, and many are unique to that faction. While all 
 the weapons are real, most have been renamed for what I assume is licensing issues. You also customize 
 the look of your character from a variety of clothing and armor. 
  
  Clans are supported, and have a cool twist. Each clan must pick from one of several Special Forces 
 units: The Navy SEALs, SAS, KSK, UOE, and 1er RPIMa. The unit you pick grants all members unique 
 gear and a unique weapon for the Commando team. However, in a rather lazy move, there is no equivalent 
 for the Mercenaries team, only the Commandos. I would like to have seen this system implemented 
 for both sides.
  
  SOCOM: Confrontation, like its predecessors, is a more tactical game. Running and gunning generally 
 won't get you that far in this game. At least, that is what the fans and developers say. I've noticed 
 that most players devolve into the same pray-and-spray, run-and-gun cluster**** of most online 
 shooters, even if playing that way isn't advised. 
  
  There is a cover system, but it is mostly useless. It uses the crappy Sixaxis motion controls to 
 lean, look over cover, and duck. Like many games using the Sixaxis motion controls, it is clunky, 
 twitchy, and overall a pain in the ass to properly use. 
  
  There are seven game modes, ranging from standard team deathmatch (Called Suppression here) to 
 Extraction, a mode where the Commando team is charged with rescuing hostages from the Mercenary 
 team and bringing them to an extraction point. Unfortunately, there are also only seven maps to 
 go with the seven game types. 
  
  Even still, the game CAN be lots of fun despite my complaints up to this point. It is intense, 
 supports lots of players, has good weapon and gear variety, and some genuinely good features. If 
 these were my only complaints then Confrontation would be a solid must buy for the online shooter 
 junkies looking for an alternative to the likes of Warhawk. Unfortunately, these aren't the only 
 things wrong with Confrontation by a long shot.
  
  To be blunt, Confrontation is buggy. Slant Six doesn't even have the "well, we had to work on the 
 single player too" excuse to explain why the online is a buggy, unstable, glitchy mess because 
 there IS no single player. They made a pure online game and STILL couldn't get the servers to work 
 right. This is especially bad because, when the online isn't working right, you have nothing more 
 than a $60 paperweight. 
  
  I've had this game since it first came out. On THE FIRST DAY there was an enormous patch that needed 
 to be downloaded that took me two hours despite high speed Internet. There have been a number of 
 other patches, but none have fixed the game. Within the first week it was IMPOSSIBLE to get into 
 matches unless you were playing in the wee hours of the morning. This is still fairly true, months 
 after release. While it is possible to get into matches in the afternoon, it takes significantly 
 more effort than it does late at night. 
  
  Then you have all the random crashes, disconnects, and kicking from matches. It will sometimes 
 take several tries to actually log on, and several tries to get into a match. And, it isn't uncommon 
 to be kicked from matches, or disconnected from the server. 
  
  When you actually manage to get into a match, frame rate chugs are usually a constant ordeal. It 
 is rare to find a match where you don't have a slight amount of lag. Hell, even the MENUS lag a 
 lot. Hit detection is pretty wonky, which I attribute to the unstable frame rate. 
  
  To top it all off, many of the features are broken, busted, or not even there. My stats still aren't 
 working. It claims I have zero kills, zero wins, zero losses, zero everything despite hours of 
 play. Well, except for the number of matches played, my stats claim I have played -2 matches.
 
  
  Bottom line: Confrontation reeks of an incompetent developer who rushed it out about eight months 
 too early. This game could have been one of the best online games for the PS3, but it barely works. 
 It is fun when it does work, but it isn't worth trudging through all the glitches, bugs, and broken 
 features. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3-CHeW1E-Man
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 21, 2009 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off. I am new to the SOCOM franchise. So i really didn't know what to be expecting when 
 I remember this game first being announced. Of course those god-awful reviews around the internet 
 made me think twice about getting the game. So i waited for a few months until a few patches came 
 out fixing most if not all of the problems.
  
  Headset: This is one thing that bothered me. It was packaged without a manual on how to pair it 
 with your ps3. Basically you go to settings, manage accesories, and I think it is under initiate 
 bluetooth device or something. Basically you say yes that you want your ps3 to search for it, next 
 take your headset, plug it to your ps3 using mini usb cable that comes with it. Hold down the power 
 AND muting button at the same time while your ps3 is searching for maybe 20 seconds, or until your 
 ps3 recognizes it.
  
  Graphics: This game looks really good. I was shocked when I saw how good the levels look. Your 
 character looks really nice too. The water has some good effects and to me felt a little under 
 par compared to a bunch of other games on the market. But overall, the graphics are by far excellent.
 
  
  Gameplay: Ok, I hard a hard time with this game when I first got it. For one I was still used to 
 running and gunning in games like call of duty which require no tactics what so ever. So I was 
 basically slaughtered for the first hour or so until I got a hang of the controls and teamwork 
 thing. This game plays GREAT, once you set aside your own feeling and work together as a team with 
 whoever you're paired with. Nothing beats the feeling you have when you flank and unsuspecting 
 enemy and unload a bullet into the back of his head. The fact that most rooms turn off respawns 
 ups the realism. This game is very realistic, from looks, to guns, to sounds.... everything. So 
 basically without respawns it teaches you to make smart choices and work with your team or else 
 you're dead and out for the round. There are a few minor bugs here and there, but nothing too bad. 
 All gameplay modes are fun, my favorite is demolition which is similar to the attack and defend 
 mode in Rainbow Six Vegas games. Controls were kind of difficult at first, but you can mess with 
 them in the options.
  
  Sound: Just like with gameplay and graphics, the sound is also very realistic. Each gunshot sounds 
 very realistic. Voice work is pretty well done, even though there is so little of it in the game. 
 Overall the sound is excellent.
  
  Replay Value: Since this game is online only, maybe some might shy away from it because of the 
 lack of single player campaign. Well this game is definitely worth replaying over and over. Why? 
 Because it will take you a very long time to get into a clan and progress in rank, and unlock weapons 
 etc. 
  
  Multiplayer: Joining a clan is a key thing in this game, because otherwise you will not progress 
 in rank or in equipment. So the replay value is great, not only is multiplayer great, but the strange 
 ranking system is pretty cool. Because your clan leaders will act like a commanding officer and 
 hand out promotions to whoever he/she thinks deserves it. Because of this, it makes the game even 
 more realistic. Since the ranks are handed out through clan leaders, this prevents cheaters/boosters. 
 So they can't make a game, and leave it on over night to get extra XP. 
  
  Overall I give this game a 9/10
  
  This game is worth the buy!
  
  PSN: CHEWIEMAN277
  
 Live Gamertag: CHEWIEMAN277 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:03 am PT
Review:  I will start off by saying the Critics got this one all wrong and dont let bad reviews put you 
 down. I am going to compare this game to real life and simulation training exercises we use in 
 the military today. Yes I am a retired War Vet after being injured in Iraq. My first instinct was 
 okay this is just an online game lets see if its any good. Critics have told me the online sucked 
 and blah blah blah and it was glitchy etc. I honestly dont know what the Critics have been playing 
 cause my copy of the game worked Immediately well and there were no glitches or bugs at all. 
 
  
  The online was crisp. The game startled me time and time again as it did affect me mentally and 
 I had to keep reassuring myself its just a game. The game is as realistic to the real thing as 
 you can get without actually going into combat. The realism in it is staggering. From how fast 
 or slow you move. The large variety of weaponry and arms you can aquire or earn through progressing 
 through the online ranks. I also found that a lot of military personel or people with real life 
 combat arms experience play this game as well. 
  
  This game is not your average run of the mill online game. We all know call of Duty is amazing. 
 However if its realism you want this game delivers on all cylinders. Its a solid buy and if you 
 dont have the convienance of going to a store you can purchase it for 39.99 off of PSN Store. However 
 if you can make it to the star the game can sell by itself for 39.99 or you can get a special bundle 
 deal from sony that includes a sony blu tooth headset for only 59.99. Now we all know good blu 
 tooth head sets sell for 99.99 and up. I have to be honest. This is by far the best headset for 
 any game console or phone I have ever used. 
  
  Great deal, Great game. I recommend it for fans of Tactical Strategy games and or people looking 
 for great deals like myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Meshuggah_73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 10:09 pm PT
Review:  Many people are disappointed due to lack of single mission campaign and i was too, but once i played 
 it i got addicted to it. Remember the single campaigns are doable then what's next!! The online 
 play. The success of online platform is way more important than the single campaign simply because 
 this is your replay value. I have purchased many games previously but once i don't enjoy playing 
 it online then it ends up being traded with another game. Also i hear complains about how this 
 SOCOM is different than the predecessor, i don't see a big difference in fact this SOCOM is way 
 better in terms of graphics, sound, game play, etc... It might need few modifications (minor ones) . 
 I went back the other night and played SOCOM III but could not help but to eject the CD. Now remember 
 this game is all about team work, this is no COD4 or medal of honor, this is tactical warfare where 
 you have to communicate with your teammate, once you're in a clan you'll even enjoy it more. Now 
 let me discuss the patch, this patch solved issues but introduced new minor issues but the game 
 is still enjoyable. If you didn't like this game from the beginning then nothing will change your 
 mind about this game. If you're not into multiplying then this one is not for you, if you just 
 like to run spraying bullets then this game is not for you, there are 100 of smart players that 
 would get you shot in one bullet. No way Sony will let this franchise go down the tube, that's 
 why a lot of people buy PS3 to play SOCOM. I'm not going to say that this game is perfect, it needs 
 more maps, weapons, few improvements here and there but right now i'm happy with what i have. I've 
 got a long road to learn to be a smart shooter before i start demanding new weapons and maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhgamer
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 7, 2009 3:29 pm PT
Review:  To win in this game, playing as a team is vital. It makes you think "where is the opposing team" 
 and "how can I cover my friends back" at the same time. At first it is not a easy game... There 
 is a learning curve that is pretty high. It helps a lot to have previously played a SOCOM game 
 even if it was just the story mode. This game is a pure online game. One of the best out there. 
 I have a lot of fun mostly because most of the other guys are normal. There are not many young 
 kids (I have yet to meet one below 14) and that is much better than most of the other games out 
 there. The sportsmanship level is also high. The realism is incredible. The sound from both the 
 guns and the surroundings are incredible. You will love this game if you are looking for an intense 
 online experience with very realistic feel to it.
  
  PROs: Intense online, in-game clan ladders, great format, not as many annoying kids as in other 
 games online, best realism I have seen so far, great surroundings and sound
  
  CONs: not enough weapon choices in my opinion (about 10 per team) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: whocares1990
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 8:35 am PT
Review:  i bought a playstation 3 just to play this game and i was not disappointed at all i love war shooters 
 if u like any other socom game or graw u should like this game just as much. it does have a few 
 bugs but sony is taking care of that. this game is online only but thats ok cause there are alot 
 of people playing online so you wont have any trouble getting into a game. if u want a game with 
 a lot of people playing and using a mic then socom is the game for you i definently recommend this 
 game to anybody out there. i give the graphics a 9 out of 10. gameplay 8.5 out of ten and design 
 8 out of 10. all together i giv the gam 8.5 out of 10. ont be fooled bythe critics score, there 
 are sme gams tatget 10 out of 10 that i would never play so if you like war/military game will 
 like socom. oh there r only 7 maps and some u can play at night and day i just hope that since 
 its online only they do lots of updates like new maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  When I got this game, it wasn't what I was expecting, but to be honest I wasn't even expecting 
 the game itself. As SOCOM's first foray into the next gen, there were high expectations for Confrontation 
 (developed by Slant Six games) , but the game falls just short of those expectations.
  
  After the initial install and update, you are dropped right in the menu where you have access to 
 character creation and customization options, as well as the community and games you can join. 
 
  
  The graphics are a bit dated, but sound effects are spot on with powerful sounding weapons and 
 different voice commands 9as well as taunts) . The controls are simple, and easy to learn.
  
  SOCOM: Confrontation is multiplayer only, so customization and community are a big part of 
 the game. You can change many aspects of your two character types (mercenary and commando) , including 
 body options, face options, and various gear as well as your weapons which have multiple sights 
 and attachments. There are more options as you rank up within your clan (more on that) , but the 
 base options are a bit simple.
  
  The best way to play is to join a clan, as the matches without good teammates usually devolve into 
 a Call of Duty meets hide and seek match. Clan options are extensive, with mottos, insignias, colors, 
 and other personalizations that make your clan stand out amongst the rest. You can choose to start 
 one, but if you want to join one you better know some with a clan or join a tryouts. Promotions 
 are handed out by leaders and with promotions, come more gear and weapons which give you an incentive 
 to join one.
  
  Many of the promised features (such as trophies and Home support) are not yet available, which 
 makes it an odd choice to say so on the game case, and the games are a bit hard to get into but 
 it seems that the game has been slowly improving.
  
  In the end, there isn't too much reason to get this game unless you are a true SOCOM fan or just 
 want to get into a serious online community. But for anyone else, you might want to wait until 
 this game has all that has been promised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NinjaCows
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 2, 2009 3:54 pm PT
Review:  i first downloaded this game from psn, i got it because i wanted an mmo shooter, and when one came 
 out on the ps3, my only console, i was psyched! this game was well worth the download time it took, 
 has great maps that are large enough to satisfy your needs. in my opinion crossroads large is the 
 best, the guns are real and feel real when shooting. the character customization is pretty good 
 as well. you can outfit for night-time, rural areas, deserts, etc. with helmets, facial hair, hats 
 headsets. when this game first came out it was unfinished, the servers were lagging bad, they didn't 
 expect this many people to get the game! but they fixed this problem asap, its definitely playable 
 now, with very few bugs. the new update 1.3 is coming out early January 09 and is going to be the 
 best update ever. with trophies, new controls, and over 100 bugs/glitches fixtures. just to make 
 the game that much sturdier. you can choose form 4v4 8v8 or 16v16 with many game types, elimination, 
 breach, suppression etc. the graphics are amazing, they can output in 1080p and the shadowing + 
 lighting is great. controls feel perfect to me, the only thing i find bad about switching weapons 
 is that sometimes i can't switch them fast enough. remember in this game, stick together as a team, 
 if you go in alone you will not get far. TEAMWORK is necessary to dominate this game. all in all 
 i recommend this game to anyone into third person shooters, online only, and doesn't talk trash 
 in the mic. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 1, 2009 4:37 pm PT
Review:  ok, i mostly got this game only because of the set including a wireless $50 headset, and i just grabbed 
 it because i thought i could get a game with a headset, when i played socom i thought, ok....... 
 its not the best ive played but its defienetely not the worth, fun to play with friends, but its 
 DEFINETELY NOTHING COMPARED TO CALL OF DUTY THATS FOR  
 the game might have some nice touch to it at times like maps and character and gun customization, but 
 come on......... this money with no campaign in it? (story mode) a game worth $35 for just online 
 ultiplayer? at least put some kind of training simulation like mgs4, because you really have to 
 get used to these controls to get kills and own people !!!!! :P these controls can be hard after 
 you play cod4, cod5, far cry 2 and games like that, but if youve been a fan of socom and will do anything 
 to get your hands on this, i bet you wont be disappointed!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriplePlay2425
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  Yes, the game is currently buggy, and I'm sure that is the main reason the the reviews for the 
 game are so low. But as updates come out (one is supposed to come out in about a week or so) , they 
 will be fixed. So I am going to review the game disregarding the bugs, because they will be fixed.
 
  
  I don't know if any of you ever played the other SOCOM games, but they had a campaign. And nobody 
 played them, and they were mediocre. But the game has always had a great multiplayer aspect. Well 
 the developers (although it's a new developer for this game) finally figured that out and just 
 threw out the campaign and focused on the online multiplayer portion of the game. If you liked 
 third person shooters, then this is the game for you. Customizable guns with many different attachments 
 along with customizable armor and equipment. If you don't work well with teams or use any sort 
 of teamwork in your favorite games, then this probably isn't a game for you. This is a big team/squad-based 
 game, and is needed to win. Unless you're a prodigy at the game and can carry a team on your own, 
 which is unlikely.
  
  If you don't have a bluetooth headset, I highly recommend getting the copy that comes with the 
 official Sony Playstation bluetooth headset. It has more features for the PS3 than other bluetooth 
 headsets do. It also allows you to not have to listen to other players chat if you throw the headset 
 aside, because there is no way to mute other players (yet) , and their voices will play through 
 your TV speakers (or whatever speakers you're using) . But if the headset is plugged in, then the 
 voices play through that. But it is advised to simply use the headset and work as a team so you 
 can communicate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xx9607xx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 7:03 pm PT
Review:  Socom is one of my games that in my eyes couldnt be beat. The reason why is that ever since socom 
 one every other game didnt compare. You can custamize your charector and your weapons. There are 
 so many things you can do to make your charector to look different from every bodys else. The bad 
 thing is that this game is only online. The graphics are decent but it seemed like they could of 
 done better. The lag is terrible i hope they come out with a patch to fix all of these problems. 
 Besides new levels guns and grapics there is nothing really different about the socom game. But 
 if your a die hard socom fan you will enjoy it and have allot of fun with friends and your enemy. 
 The clans have a new cool feature. You can pick from multiple groups in a clan and which ever one 
 you pick you get a certain gun that no one else can get along with a certain piece of clothing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LazyGamer_24
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  SOCOM: U. S. Navy SEALs Confrontation is a multiplayer going up to 32 players only game that features 
 no campaign or training whatever. It has a strong, competitive, and fun multiplayer that will keep 
 you busy for a while. 
  
  SOCOM Confrontation has a sense of realistic feel to it. You have wide variety of weapons to use 
 and customize yourself from grenade launchers to acog scopes to suppressors which affects accuracy, 
 damage, etc. You can also fully customize your characters' appearances and what kind of armor you 
 character can wear. But be careful not to put too much stuff on your avatar or it will move slow, 
 so you might have to balance it out. SOCOM uses the six axis barely as you can use it to lean or 
 throw grenades at a specific place, but other than that you might not want to bother with it. There 
 are many maps and gametypes to choose from which all are fun.
  
  The problem with SOCOM Confrontation is that there are a lot of technical glitches and the worst 
 is lag. You might find that you can see another person's laser sight through a wall. The lag isn't 
 as bad as you think it is unless of course you have a bad connection. If you have a rout you might 
 just experience maybe some very small lag spikes which could affect firefights. Also it might take 
 a while to find a specific game you like or want since there's a server browser instead of a matchmaking 
 game.
  
  SOCOM: U. S. Navy SEALs Confrontation overall isn't that bad. SOCOM fans will most likely enjoy 
 this game, but it's is not recommended for gamers with no patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkGhost32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  Everyone that first played this game in disappointment like me... Do not give up on it!!!! I never 
 gave up on it and it is treating me great! I just can't wait for all the new things they will put 
 into the Socom store when they set it up... So for everyone that read the GameSpot review (no offense 
 to everyone at GameSpot) do not listen to the review and just TRY it, i seriously guarantee you 
 will like it! It is definitely worthy of an 8.0. Now that the updates are coming out it is being 
 improved and just think, they can add new stuff to the game. (for example maps, weapons, camo, 
 skins, gear, Special Forces) For all those dedicated Socom fans, good job sticking with it, even 
 though it has been disappointing the first few weeks, you guys stuck through it and are still playing. 
 I think the good parts about this game would have to be the graphics on the maps, camo, weapons, 
 and gear. Another one would have to be the gameplay itself, because really there will never be 
 no lag in an online game, its impossible not to have it, because you're playing people across the 
 world/U. S. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Venomous725
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 2, 2008 8:28 pm PT
Review:  All right so my friends are big SOCOM buffs and they tell me I have to get this it's going to be 
 amazing! So I go "All Right" and I preorder it. Get it the first day my friends are freaking out, 
 happy as can be and then we begin the process lol. We do the 10 minute PSN update, then the like 
 five updates for the game itself finally, 10:00 or so at night me and my friend get ready for SOCOM. 
 Unfortunately it's not quite what we'd invisioned, the game is literally riddled with bugs to the 
 point you couldn't do a single thing unless you got a private match going but even that wouldn't 
 always work. So by the end of the night my friend has been thrown into a frenzy and I'm not happy 
 either. We call it a night and the next day... Well the next FEW days it's horrible. This plague 
 of bugs continued for about two weeks slowly getting better as time went on, and this is also why 
 all of the reviews are so bad for SOCOM it was covered in bugs when they reviewed it. 
  But finally they got rid of the bugs and underneath was an amazing game. Tons of guns, all unique 
 and powerful in the hands of the right person. This is a game of skill and if you're hoping for 
 another COD you're out of luck. This has been the most enjoyable online experience of my time, 
 from someone who has played COD, GoW and Halo. The only downs are an occasional glitch where your 
 hand appears above your gun a bit and RPG whores. Otherwise it's a solid gaming experience that 
 everyone should try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bemap
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 2, 2008 12:33 pm PT
Review:  Its pretty hard to bash SOCOM Confrontation without hating myself in the process. First of all, 
 I am a veteran and HUGE fan of every SOCOM made to date. From SOCOM: US Navy SEALs, to SOCOM Tactical 
 Strike on the PSP, and everything in between. When I heard that SOCOM Confrontation was coming 
 to the PlayStation 3, I was to say the least, overjoyed. 
  
  All that said, we now get to the unfortunate parts. Well, lets start with those at least.
  
 
  First and foremost to some, the complete lack of a Single Player campaign causes SOCOM to lose 
 one of its most strongly remembered features, a strong and engaging single player with a fast, 
 hard hitting and addictive multiplayer. Even looking past the lack of single player, the insane 
 number of bugs, glitches and server issues plague SOCOM Confrontation even further beyond the obvious 
 failures. The same issues present in the Public Beta were very much present, and much worse, in 
 the final release. Although networking issues are obviously to be expected, the bugs and unforgivable 
 lack of content and features is absolutely NOT.
  
  Too start off, most of the features promised for the release were not there. Trophies being the 
 most obvious, along with some community features which are expected. Tagging that subject closely, 
 is the missing weapons. Although some people may not have noticed, no SR-25? The game is called 
 SOCOM, and is based mainly off the Navy SEALs. The SR-25, aka the Mk. 11 Mod 0 SNS was developed 
 MAINLY, for the US Navy SEALs. The lack of this gun is unforgivable, and I call shenanigans on 
 Slant Six for not including this. My heart, is officially melting.
  
  Not to be on a rant, but unfortunately yes children, there is MORE. If SOCOM Confrontation wasn't 
 diseased enough as it is, the engaging and tense stealth gameplay is completely gone. The teamwork 
 and squad based initiative, yep, not quite gone but definitely not present in the sense Slant Six 
 made it seem. Although that was simple marketing, you don't mess with gamers like that Six, you 
 just don't. We are a sensitive group you know.
  
  Even worse is the noob factor. Anyone who bunny hops, camps or uses grenades/rockets all day long, 
 go back to COD4, because thats where you belong. Although the small rooms, winding and open, cover-position 
 dotted streets and various other locations across the maps provide a very strong sense of necessity 
 to remain vigilant and aware of who is who, what they are doing and where they are, else you meet 
 the receiving end, or at least the business end, of a 5.56mm round or a 7.62mm round right in the 
 face. The end factor, and the plague which follows every shooter, is that the noobs come a' runnin' 
 when new games come out, make everyone hate them for a while, then go back to their little rocks. 
 Rockets and grenades in ranked matches? Slant Six were you drunk? If so, give me some and I might 
 forget about how much this game managed to do WRONG, and instead focus on the vapor trails following 
 everyone around, yay!
  
  Now, the good part!
  
  Shooting fools. Always fun. SOCOM does it best. Forget chainsaw guns, seriously I mean, thats pointless. 
 First off, chainsaws are usually heavy and are not for kids. Secondly, why the heck would you want 
 to GET close enough to use a chainsaw, if you HAVE a gun already. Thirdly... what the hell is a 
 chainsaw gun USEFUL for? Soldier by day, lumberjack by night? Gosh.
  
  Anyways, SOCOM has always been famous for its weapons. You can't play SOCOM, pump some fool full 
 of 10 rounds from your M4A1, then 3 of your buddies show up and 6 of his friends come, and you 
 battle it out. Someone throws a flashbang and, its over. Spend shell casings litter the floor amongst 
 the bodies of your comrades, your enemy and the pink vase the old lady is going to be PISSED about 
 when she comes back home to find it broken (I doubt that will happen for a while though, the whole 
 'warzone' thing and all.) But the guns feel realistic, even if you don't experience the mental 
 instability I do, its a gift for me I guess. 
  
  But the guns feel, sound and look great. Your not some super soldier, or some soldier in a fancy 
 suit which makes you, super soldier 2.3.4 (HDTV is in the 2.3.5 update, they wanted me to pass that 
 along) . When you pull that trigger, so to speak, you actually feel like something bad has just 
 happened to that mercenary or terrorist (And the lack of terrorists here is awfully saddening, they 
 are much more fun to shoot than mercs. Which would you rather see exploding, his 5% off card at 
 72 Virgins Cafe, or a bundle of cash? Durrr) at the other end of your gun. That or the wall you 
 shot by accident, but it deserved it! Block MY way will you! AH HA! Ahem...
  
  Putting aside the weapons for now, which kinda sucks but I'll get over it... eventually. The maps 
 are win. Epic win. Super Epic 'You gotta get with my friends' epic. Crossroads and Desert Glory 
 make a return with Frost Fire, some SOCOM II favorites of... everyone who bought the game. You don't 
 even have to play it, and they are your favorite. Or the SOCOM tooth fairy (Jester from the single 
 player, he has to feed the family y'know) will pull out your teeth and force you to play Halo. 
 ZING! (Both suck, in case you didn't get that...) Combined with a set of other amazing maps, which 
 blends the famous SOCOM fast paced action, with the intensity of seeing your enemy approaching 
 through the rubble with no shot, and completely aware an epic confrontation (OH SNAP!) is about 
 to occur. The heart pounding intensity of close quarters mixed with the tense feeling of insecurity 
 while traversing an open market place or courtyard. Hoping your team mate is still with you, but 
 your cant look at the mini-map because your eyes are glued to the fallen pillar you swear, just 
 SWEAR, you saw a little black helmet bobbling around behind. That, is the crack of SOCRACK!
  
  Now, team mates and communications! woo! As I said, SOCOM like all other shooters is for a 
 while, tarnished by the noobs who camp, use explosives like they are free crayons, and all around 
 don't do anything/don't take the time to use the 3 brain cells necessary to LEARN how to PLANT 
 THE BOMB! Seriously, its NOT hard. Hold the-... ugh. That said, when you come across a squad of 
 guys who know how to work together, its impossible to explain the intense feeling of accomplishment 
 and feeling of camaraderie as the sexy voice (Well I mean, considering the lack of ladies in the 
 game, shes all you got, and shes dang good. AND TURN OFF THAT BRITNEY SPEARS SONG! You are suppose 
 to be killing the enemy, not yourself) of Jennifer Hale (AKA, HQ!!) tells your team you won the 
 match. You feel like you did something rewarding, then the server crashes and your system crashes 
 and you lose the points you earned. 
  
  All that said, the mix of great audio from weapons to voices, to the general sound effects of the 
 environment only add the suspense and ultimately, the confrontation (SNAP x2!) .
  
  But all that said, SOCOM fall short. The terrible server issues, lack of features with the final 
 release and the itching feeling that Slant Six simply does not care, that when the money stops 
 rolling in the fixes stop rolling out, keeps you wishing Zipper kept the series. And for those 
 who hated Zipper for SOCOM CA, please sell your PS3 for a 360 and play Halo, get out of my SOCOM! 
 I cannot blame Slant Six for anything, they are simply new to SOCOM. Zipper got it right, mainly 
 by luck I'd say, with SOCOM. Slant Six had a lot too live up to, and unfortunately they fell so 
 short I can't even hear the excuses anymore. 
  
  All that said, I still love Confrontation, albeit only because I love the series and I REFUSE to 
 see it as anything less than a great game, but the intense problems and horrific lack of shine 
 that made the previous SOCOM games so addictive, makes me feel almost like I'm getting old. Its 
 unfortunate, but hopefully with some dedication from Slant Six and maybe a time machine, SOCOM 
 can turn itself around and return too its godly status. More or less, the only way Slant Six could 
 have screwed this up more was no including the Navy SEALs in the game. GO NAVY SEALs! STAB THEM 
 FOOLS REAL QUIET LIKE!
  
  Overall, my scores:
  
  Graphics: Good, but not great. Too much focus on graphics I believe, and not enough on finishing 
 the game before it comes out. 8.5/10
  
  Gameplay: Still addictive as ever, but thats only if you can even get into a game, after traversing 
 the maze and mine field which is the lobby and channel screens. But none the less, its SOCOM. 8.2/10
 
  
  Sound: Jennifer Hale, nuff said. Oh, and some cool African guy I'd LOVE to buy a beer for. 9/10
 
  
  Weapons: M4A1, SCAR, AK-47... my god. 10/10 (NO SR-25!? *chokes a garden gnome*)
  
  SOCRACK factor: In the end, the addiction is ruined by poor server quality, confusing and frustrating 
 lobby and time consuming load screens and game joining process. Although the action is still SOCOM, 
 getting to the action is a worthy test of the Navy SEALs themselves. 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leegoods1
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  From the moment the download was done and the headset was hooked up... I was in. Just being a pert 
 of a team together that will get the objective done... need I say more. I can't wait to get home 
 and connect and get back to missions. PERFECT FREAKIN' 10 for me man. Connection was not a problem 
 for me. It was not hard finding a game and games are much better downloaded to the hard drive. 
 I have never been a fan of the disk drive. I almost threw my ps3 in the trash, but I noticed that 
 you could download straight to the hard drive. I am glad I brought the 80G system. All I need is 
 socom, head coach '09, and paradise. I'm good. The PC can handle the rest. System still works good 
 and I'm loving PS# now. They should release all PS3 titles online. Gamespot has done socom no justice. 
 It really is a great game and I'm going to buy a ps2 system just to get the previous titles because 
 this is truly a great game. They should have added a single player option. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigflu
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 3, 2009 8:24 pm PT
Review:  Let me specifically state that I am a hardcore Socom fan that got hooked when Socom II came out. 
 So it's hard for me to bash this game ..... but I kind of have to. I'm kind of fair guy, and it 
 quite frankly it deserves it.
  
  Zipper (the original company that came out with Socom) did NOT make this version, Slant Six did. 
 They did an amazing job with the graphics, and did a pretty decent job of creating that Socom II 
 atmosphere by bringing back some of the old favorite maps. 
  
  That being said ..... this game was not ready to be released. Half of the functions advertised 
 on the back of the box DO NOT WORK YET. Slant Six keeps saying that they will eventually be available, 
 but I'm afraid their lack of efficiency in getting the bugs out of this game has already tarnished 
 this particular release of it. There are entirely too many bugs to list here, so I'll summarize 
 when I say that these bugs would not be a big deal to me if Slant Six would fix them. Instead they're 
 saying (per their website) that the features we (the users) have been screaming for were never 
 intended to be released for this game!? The online menu system is a wreck, a total trainwreck, 
 I really can't stress this enough to do this part justice. So if you want to play online with your 
 friend ..... you better call him on the phone and ask him what server he's on and what room he's 
 in ..... cause this game doesn't help you at all there either. 
  
  So an online cooperative teamwork based game that doesn't really allow you to play with your preferred 
 teammates? Instead you have to try to work with a bunch of tards who either want to camp all day, 
 jack their jaws about non-game related subjects (and therefore hog the mic) or just run around 
 and collect their kills without any concerns over planting the bomb, escorting the hostages, or 
 whatever is actually required to win the game. Not cool.
  
  Let me reiterate that if they COULD fix all of their issues with this game, it would be fantastic 
 ........... easily a top 10 game. But the last post I read from Slant Six seemed to indicate that 
 they're only going to fix what they have to, and move on ............ I could be wrong though. 
 I certainly hope I am on that part at least. Either way, I'm done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chshawks07
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 25, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Socom 2 so I was expecting great things from this game. After playing it for 
 many hours, it is a good game but not quite like the classics. A little more attention to detail 
 would have been nice, and lag-free online play would greatly help. All of the customization options 
 are pretty cool to mess around with and the multiplayer is pretty engaging and team oriented. You 
 will definitely need to work with your team to be successful so I think the main goal of the creators 
 was reached. The bad things about this game include lagging gameplay, some slow load times, and 
 inconsistent kills and deaths. Also from time to time, there are some disconnection errors. But 
 if you can deal with some of these faults, you will experience a truly fun and engaging game. Overall, 
 I think this is yet another fun and addicting socom game that is worth the 40 bucks, even though 
 it does need a little more polish, although there is talk of an update that may fix some of the 
 bugs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holb
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 24, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  I have played socom since Socom 1 back in 02. It seems that since socom 1 the same has slowly got 
 worse. Confrontation sadly is no exception. I was hoping for a game we vets were promised, but 
 we got nothing that was promised. All that's left in the socom series are people who think and 
 call them self Vets when people like LiQ and [G] host and :D@ and -) CP (- (which i was in) were the 
 true hardcore vets and players who made the game and watching the game videos great. This game 
 series as become trash. All my found memories of playing 1 and some in 2 are gone and left with 
 a bitter taste.
  No real socom vet likes this game, at least the ones who count. The only thing I liked was creating 
 my character that was about it.
  
  Zipper went in a bad direction with the game, that's why they were so quick to sell and settle 
 the socom brand with Sony. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dougbrowne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  SOCOM is one of the best shooter games I have ever played, and *The Best* multiplayer shooter I 
 have ever played, I just gotta love it... Great Graphics, great gameplay, don't hesitate buying 
 it because of some bad reviews, it's a great game. Guns are contomizable, which is great, although 
 I believe there should be a system to where you have to earn certain customizations. There is also 
 a very nice selection of weapons ranging from sniper rifles and machine guns, to mk 3 pistols. 
 There are great positions to snipe from in most of the maps, like towers and high up areas. I hardly 
 ever lag, and if I do it's just that one game that I am in. Make sure you have a headset, it really 
 is a requirement to play this game, it's the only way to communicate with your team members, I 
 once let a friend barrow mine for a day and I felt so empty when playing socom without it. Make 
 sure to use tean work, it's really the only way to win in this game.
  
  Great Game. Buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeffgordonfan24
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 20, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  SOCOM: Confrontation is the first in the series to reach the PS3, and is the first to have no singlplayer 
 campaign. With interesting features such as create your own character, clan matchs, tournaments, 
 and five types of weaponry, SOCOM almost delivers as well as its predecessors. 
  
  Confrontation is a online-only game, and just like the previous games, is a PlayStation franchise 
 exclusive (haha Xbox) . Even after the recent patches, there are some annoying little bugs like 
 getting inside and mountain and zooming out of your scope after shooting a bit without pressing 
 the zoom-out button. But let's try and look on the bright side. Confrontation delivers heart-racing 
 player battles with up to 32 players (larger than BFBC or COD5) . The bundle comes at $60, the price 
 of a new game. But the bundle also has the official PS3 headset included, a $50 value, for free! 
 The headset is key to working out strategies with friendlies and works with all other headset compatible 
 games. The controls are shaky for people like me who are accustomed to diffent controller layouts 
 from the more popular games like the Call of Duty series. The graphics don't even come close to 
 games like Battlefield: Bad Company, and the audio isn't genious either. The size of games are 
 astonishing. Suppporting two teams of up to 16 players, SOCOM delivers one of the highest possible 
 players in a round for any game yet. Few games pass this mark, like Resistance 2 with 60 players 
 per match. The guns are wide-ranged, the most common being the SOCOM series favorite the M16 Assault 
 Rifle. Sniping is no walk in the park here. Enemies are always moving, and so is your crosshair. 
 Shotguns are only effective in close quarters, and you're usually dead before you get that close. 
 Machineguns are good at medium range, but is not very accurate in close range fire-fights. Sub-machine 
 guns are popular amongst the most expierienced players, with high damage, a quick rate of fire, 
 and the laser scope and suppressor attachments.
  
  In conclusion, SOCOM isn't the best shooter out there, but with a free headset and interesting 
 gameplay, considering purchasing it is an overall good idea. My Rating: 7.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlfaxD_Centauro
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  Multiplayer and conectivity (KB/ps) :
  
  Ok, this game is not bad at all (Gamespot put 6.5, I'm not agree with that) . The bad thing there's 
 no Single Player available.
  
  Sometimes there's lag (a little bit) but then disappears in a moment. 
  
  Even I test this 
 game with a connection 512KB/ps and it's good, not laggy for this kind of connection.
  
  Then if you have 128KB/Ps I think you can handle without problems the game.
  
  The graphics 
 are good (playing with single TV, not HD, so this have better details on it) .
  
  Great Voice Communication. 
  
  
  
  
  Setting up the Game:
  
  If you want to buy it, 
 you need be patience to install the game (takes like 4 to 6 Minutes to load the setup) then install 
 progress takes like 5 Minutes.
  
  Then download the update (it's like a patch, 400MB more or less) . Be patience of this.
  
  
 
  
  
  The Equipment:
  
  I thought the equipment and stuff was locked if you are new playing (like others games) .
  
  
 Actually I just notice the most of the weapons (or maybe everything) is unlocked (even if you are 
 new playing the game) .
  
  Is good, variety of equipment.
  
  The Whole game is good, not bad to be 6.5
  
  I put it 8.5
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dogswithguns
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 9, 2008 7:18 am PT
Review:  Go ahead people wanna give bad reviews as much as you want. but I have been playing this new Socom 
 none stop. yeah, I know the server is in a repairs and more updates coming a long, and it's getting 
 better each time. 
  Many reasons I love Socom: Confrontation. the maps are pretty good size, they are large and great 
 details, tho dont expect they crisp and clear. and lots of options to choose your characters and 
 uniforms. I love how aiming the guns and I just cant get enough listening to the sound of explosions, 
 grenades and guns sound from my surround sound. 
  Altho, the graphics aren't the best, good graphics dont mean everything. the game play is. but 
 I really like the details of the maps, you can hear the wind if you on top of a building and the 
 explosions. and guns sound from the distance are awesome when you're on the ground. 
  After playing for weeks, I really think Socom: confrontation deserves between 8.5 or 9.5 on most 
 parts. but I gave it a 10 cuz I love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chronicman7
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 9:08 pm PT
Review:  okay i was a socom fan on the ps2 and was waiting to get this game for a long time. I have to say 
 that this was the worst $40 I've spent in a long time. Buying it i knew it had some technical issues 
 but still thought id make it through that and get back to some classic socom style tactical gameplay. 
 The servers aren't that bad in my experience but the actual game is flooded with bugs that are 
 really annoying. After a couple games in, my characters hand as been protruding strangely out of 
 his body in midair. That was only the beginning. Every time I'm in a game with more than 8 players 
 the lagg is horrendous, every 10 seconds it stutters and that has been the cause of countless deaths. 
 The graphics are terrible also and there are many screen tears and at the start of every game it 
 takes about 15 seconds for the textures to load. I regret getting this game and will go back to 
 FPS's like COD4 that have took control of my library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrAvEZombiE
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 9:54 am PT
Review:  (The Best online game I ever played, I love this game) The game is about tactical warfare with a 
 lot of options like selecting your own set of weapons (and you can customize the weapons as you 
 like by adding two items like grip and suspension, laser sight, defrent types of scopes) and gears 
 and wears and if your sets are heavy you will become slower, many good weapons out there, many 
 good game modes, but I'll say that the game doesn't suit players with noob skills, clans mean a 
 lot in this game as the rank system work only if you are in a clan beside you will need to teamwork 
 with some one that you know how his style of playing, good clans will need 1good sniper in each 
 game (basic on 4*4 games) , you will need to play at lest for 3-7days to actually began improving, 
 the game has the best ground combat I ever encounter, also proximity chat so you can hear your 
 enemy talk when they are near you or you on a side of a tunnel and the enemies near or inside the 
 tunnel, every thing is realistic basic like when you shoot a bird the bird will die, you can walk, 
 run, crouch, lay down on the floor, swim, dive, climp a ladder... I think the game is a must buy 
 for those who seek a tactical troops games with out any vehicles involved, the stages are perfect 
 organized, the game defiantly have some connections problems but 2patches in 2weeks and the 3rd 
 patch is in it ways (amazing supports) you can go to this thread for EU feedback and suggestions 
 http://community. eu. playstation. com/playstationeu/board/message? board. id=68&amp; thread. id=10441
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JDHound
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  This is the first SOCOM game I have played and I will say that I enjoy it very much. The best thing 
 I like about the game is how realistic the combat is. If you get shot, regardless of armor, you 
 are going to die in two to three hits. Gone are the moments when you get the drop on the enemy 
 and they end up killing you instead.
  The levels are great, from small maps to large ones, and offer many cover options, attack routes, 
 choke points ect. The graphics are good, not the best you will ever see, but very nice nonetheless. 
 Like I said earlier this is the first SOCOM game I've played, and I was surprised how helpful and 
 polite almost all the other players were. I have yet to run into any rude or "outspoken" players.
 
  Some things I didn't like so much were the cover system and and the claymores. To use the cover 
 system the player has to use the siaxis to lean out of cover and this can be clunky sometimes as 
 the siaxis is not so great. Also, there is no option to use the directional buttons to lean out, 
 just the siaxis only. Then, the claymores are activated by a remote control, not "tripped" by the 
 enemy. Small inconvenience, but enough to not make the claymore a must have weapon.
  To sum up, this game is a nice retreat from most other popular shooters. There are enough things 
 in the game to make it different from the rest of the flock and the multiplayer is just as fast 
 paced and addictive as most. If you dont own this game yet because of all the negative feedback 
 about the server issues, most of those issues have been resolved with the promise of them all being 
 resolved asap. With the newest patches, I have had no problems playing the game. If you still aren't 
 sure rent it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: EXxile
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 8:56 am PT
Review:  PROS: Great multiplayer experience, customizable weapons, BIG maps, great sounding weapons and 
 explosions
  
  CONS: Graphics are bleh, LOADS of network issues, constant drop-outs, status tracking is inaccurate 
 and broken 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------
  
  Socom: Confrontation is a game I originally wasn't going to buy. However, the headset stand-alone 
 is $49.99 and for $10 more you can get Socom. A great deal I couldn't pass up. Sadly though, Socom 
 is an unfinished product that is broken around the seams.
  
  THE GRAPHICS are boring, crummy, and uninspired. This isn't really anything new though considering 
 none of the Socom games have ever looked that great in the first place. But there is still no excuse 
 on why this game looks like the way it does considering it is on the most powerful console on the 
 market and it is a first party title.
  
  THE SOUND is great. All of the weapons sound good and its always nice to hear guys having a firefight 
 a few feet up ahead. 
  
  THE GAMEPLAY is faultered. The game is actually a good game that offers a great multiplayer experience 
 and some great battles. The shooting all feels good and fluid and the matches are un and intense. 
 However, when you cannot even join a game in the first place because of the constant network errors, 
 it cannot be overlooked and is the biggest downfall of the game thus far. It seriously feels as 
 if you are playing an unfinished game. Constant lag issues, constant freezing, constant drop-outs. 
 It all adds up, and to have a game frustrate you so much, all because the game is not allowing 
 you to join any matches because it simply cannot connect is simply unexcusable. Also, the host 
 has no control over starting the match, so there are times when a room is full and everyone is 
 readied up but the game simply will not start the match for you for whatever reason. Also, the 
 status tracking completely broken and will not track your games like it intends to. Its almost 
 like why even bother. 
  
  OVERALL the Socom franchise should never be handled by Slant Six ever again. They did keep the 
 game feeling like authentic Socom, but they have terrible, unreliable servers. And for a game that 
 is strictly online mutiplayer shouldn't they have been ready for server overloads and have gotten 
 this fixed by now? Also, why is it that it states that it supports trophies on the back of box 
 when there isn't any trophies to be found? Either way, Sony needs to let Zipper handle all of the 
 Socom games from here on out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Steel_Rain777
Rating: 1.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Socom for quite awhile, so when I hear a new one for the PS3 is on its way, 
 I was pretty excited. Once I heard though that it would be online-only, I was little disheartened 
 cause the lack of single-player, but I was optimistic because the socom series always had sick 
 multiplayer and now with an online-only title, they can make the online-component that much better. 
 Boy, was I wrong...
  
  The game is literally broken, Many of the features that were promised are not even in the game (unless 
 I'm blind and can't find them cause I've looked everywhere) . No matchmaking whatsoever, No create-a-party/friend 
 invites prior to joining a game with friends, No unlockable equipment, perks, armor, etc as you 
 rank up, and the list goes on. My biggest gripe from this list, is lack of Create-a-party feature. 
 I have plenty of friends who I know personally in real life that I like to team up with that own 
 PS3's and are on my friends list, so this is a game-breaker for me, especially in an online-only 
 title. See it saddens me that games like Battlefield: BC, Resistance 2, and Call of Duty 4, just 
 to name a few, have these features and still include a single-player component. For a game that's 
 online-only, Socom Confrontation really drops the ball and makes the game feel like a PS2 first-gen 
 online title, where you can barely do anything. Other problems of course bear their ugly head into 
 the fold such as disconnection issues, glitches in-game and freezing problems are just some of 
 the few among many annoyances in this title. 
  
  As far as the game itself, it really doesnt do anything entirely different in the franchise. The 
 graphics are pretty sub-par when compared to other PS3 titles out there. They have large maps, 
 but no vehicles to drive? What's up with that Socom 3 for the PS2 even had that in. Controls, for 
 a lack of a better word, feel wonky at times. The default setup can be quite confusing. R3 to reload... that's 
 a first, Plus leaning with the six-axis doesn't feel right at all, if anyone is still playing this 
 I suggest turning it off, unless you're comfortable with it.
  
  To end, I'd like to say that Slant Six games took a great franchise, and completely destroyed it. 
 The game
  keeps offering patches for things, but these issues should be addressed before the game was released. 
 Patches should only be used when their offering new content, if a totally new problem has come 
 up due to players, cheating, etc. The only good thing I got from this was the bluetooth headset. 
 12x better then the one that came with Warhawk, but at least that game was good. Makes me wish 
 the Headset was packaged with Resistance 2, so I could've saved 60 bucks. I'll be selling this 
 for COD: WaW, and anyone else that owns this should to (or you coulkd get whatever other game you 
 want) . I say, Sony let Zipper do Socom next time. Avoid at all costs.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: W1NGMAN-
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 7:17 pm PT
Review:  Socom US Navy SEALS has been a long time series for the Playstation family, and with Socom Confrontation 
 not only does it bring back the old school feel of Socom 1 and 2, it's able to make enough improvements 
 to keep the franchise moving forward. The first thing everyone will notice when picking up Socom 
 Confrontation will be the fact that it's the first Online Only game in the series and with this 
 came a ton of issues. The first two days were flat out unplayable. I probably spent more time trying 
 to get into a room rather than actually playing the game, so I decided to wait for the 1.20 patch 
 to post up this review and now that it's out here we go.
  
  There are ton of character customization options to choose from, things like body armor to the 
 color of your camo to your weapon of choice and even your characters head gear, Socom Confrontation 
 has it all. What's nice is the fact that these options all play a role in how agile and quick your 
 characters movements are so there is some strategy in choosing your characters layout.
  
  When your not customizing your character you can check out all of your stats, and leader boards 
 in the Records menu. The Community menu is their for messaging friends and to keep an eye on your 
 Clans general statistics. Socom Confrontation took a unique approach to the Clan setup, you can 
 customize your Clan Logo, motto, and name. You also have several different military forces you 
 can choose from that all carry different rankings and character customization options. The only 
 way to rank up in Confrontation is to play with a Clan, and you better choose wisely because the 
 moment you leave a clan will be the moment your ranking is erased. 
  
  The Lobby is basically the classic setup of past Socom games, there's no quick game option and 
 you have to go through "channels" and rooms to find games that aren't already full. There's different 
 types of game modes and each are unique and enjoyable. 
  
  When in a game Socom Confrontation still carries that intense, close quarter gameplay seen in past 
 Socom games. The control layout is a bit awkward and not as functional as I would have liked it 
 to be, fortunately players are able to adjust their control layout to their liking. Overall however 
 the gameplay is solid, the characters have great animations, the gun characteristics vary, the 
 recoil seems to be spot on, and the graphics even though nothing mind blowing are sharp and detailed, 
 overall Socom Confrontation is a very solid shooter and a fun one at that. I generally played Elimination 
 more so than any other game mode, and with this mode relying so much on team work and communication 
 is where Socom Confrontation shines. The community is down right fantastic, everyone in a room 
 has a mic, and not only that but use it to better the team. 
  
  If you're looking for a third person tactical shooter look no further than Socom Confrontation, 
 solid game play, with all the whistles and bells and possibly the best community out there. With 
 the official mic bundled with the game for only 59.99 it's hard not to recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lone_Wolf23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  The plus of this game is that there is many guns and character customization is excellent. Also 
 there are very amazing levels that were designed perfectly and you can interact with the enviorments 
 like detonating bridges and changing the water levels. Plus the ranking system is sup-erb and dominant 
 just like socom 3. the clan system also works perfectly. but saddly this game has many!!!! technecal 
 issues it laggs in any game with more than 16 people in it of your game will freeze and even sometimes 
 it will bring you back to the main ps3 menu. but if you can live through the lag the gameplay is 
 highly addictive and it is a solid 3rd person multipalyer only shooter. So i would suggest this 
 game to all gammers out there but if you have like dial up dont even bother you will just waist 
 your money and probley end up killing yourself becuse you will get disconnected from every multi 
 player server. also its kindof a shame that there is no single player becuse it would have been 
 excellent and it would have made up for all the technacil issues. also i wanna say that if you 
 played a game like cod4 or anyshooter and was a ok player or you played the socom beta and a cod4 
 player like me you will pwn everyone there all noobs in this game little nooblets that you can 
 pwn all night!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rounder617
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  O. k first off this games should have been held back. The beta was horrible, i couldn't even move 
 a half a step and just lag out. But for some reason they still released the game as broken as it 
 was. Half the features are missing from what they say in the game guide. This game if what they 
 said was going to be true could have been great the calender and clan battles were a great idea 
 but those features aren't even there.
  First if get lucky enough to sign into the servers with out getting an error returning you to the 
 main screen out just for some odd reason to the main PlayStation screen. You get to choose a server. 
 I've had a lot of errors trying to pick a server even when there is like 34 out of 162 i get a 
 failed to join sever error. If you get pass that you get to pick a game which is worst than picking 
 a server. If you get into a 32 player match well at least for me i get kicked out and sent back 
 to the main screen. So then i started to play 16 player matches. They were ok i still lag but not 
 as bad as the beta. After 20 minutes of playing though i get kicked back to the main screen.
  So if you haven't bought this game i recommend you don't buy it cause slant 6 ruined a great game 
 series with this garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Syphon_Filter2
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 3, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  Before when i saw the gameplay of the game and what the new Ps3 hardware could enbale the developers 
 to do is fantastic. But it appeared that this game Socom, is one of most poorly game have been 
 developed to the Ps3 console. The game is only online which it means have to provide many things 
 to the players. Beside using the Blue Ray disk, which it gives to the developers a huge advantage. 
 The game doesn't provide the necessary stuff that the playesr will enjoy. Poor graphic, no unlucking 
 challenging or gettting them, no upgrading your weapons, not good customizing, poor game play, 
 poor control and beside the lagging during the game. In each minute you will notice that when you 
 play this game and all the sudden, you will see your character went on the other side or just stopped. 
 The developers never enhanced the game at all and made it worse. Comparing to the other games that 
 they have Story mode and online, such as Call Of Duty4, how the game built very well and it being 
 perfect example of true next generation game that has been developed very well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsluzz
Rating: 1
Date: Nov 2, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  omg omg omg, please do not buy this piece of crap. this is the first time i bought a game without 
 checking on the ratings online first, mainly due to the attractive cover and headset included gimmic. 
 but wth, its CRAP. U finally go into the game aft installing and updating for hours, and aft 2 
 minutes of exploring, u get kicked out and they tell u that u hav been disconnected due to network 
 reasons. OMG i can't believe this. Shouldnt they properly test the network out first before they 
 realease the game. i dun often write reviews for my games, be it good or lousy, but this time, 
 i hav to really warn pple of this **** Piece of junk. omfg, i'm throwing it away now, breaking 
 the blue ray disc first. Game developers should always test out their game properly first before 
 releasing it on the market. No more SOCOM in the future for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Warlockfarrel
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 2, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I think that this game is fairly good and should of gotten a better rating. Clearly this sold a 
 ton of copy's but did not work on easing the controls for the players and didn't not have a tutorial 
 on how to use the controls without looking at the gaming manual. I also guess that many of the 
 purchases were made on the customers first priority to get a micro phone to contact other online 
 players in other great games like Call Of Duty and Metal Gear Solid Online
  
  Team work on this game couldn't get better, when I played it I already knew that communication 
 was key. And the option to talk to you teammates by pressing the L2 button was a great choice. 
 During the first games I played I found out that my hand was off the gun, it was floating on top 
 of it, like what the &@^$ is that! They obviously spent no time working on fixing that even with 
 updates running through ever so often.
  
  Many of the guns have to much recoil and I can not kill enemy's in point blank range and it pisses 
 me off. I will continue playing this game because if you are in the right section of server lagging 
 does not occur very often. I also think that Confrontation should have also added a move where 
 there is no Cross arrow and no indication how much ammo you have left like Call of duty. The game 
 is also very detailed but should have a campaign mode because there should be a way to practice 
 on how you play, get used to the control and to enjoy a good story mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: splavish
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I have played Socom from the very beginning. EVERY Socom game; Veterans admit has been with glitches 
 and has NEVER been fixed. This one is the worst. I am a 40+ year old gamer with more than 400 games 
 on multiple systems and this has in the past been my favorite series, but I am now through after 
 this one that I have been waiting on for almost 2 years and this is what I get. SERIOUSLY. 
  
  I am so freaking tired of hearing from Sony about what they are going to do. DO IT AND SHUT 
 THE * (& (*^& UP. You know your games suck when you keep telling players what you are going to do 
 in the future, but you continue to put out broken games and systems. 
  
  X-Box went through the same thing years ago with the crap they were putting out and the high price 
 of their system and they learned one thing, that made them a good system: Put out finished, well 
 put together games, drop the price of the system, even Nintendo came back from a dirt nap. Sony 
 deserves to die in the gaming war.
  
  This game opened up at $40.00 because they knew no one would buy a broken game for $60.00. They 
 also keep talking about what they are going to do on their online service in the lobby and how 
 "cool" it will be. Big problem with them, the keep saying WHAT THEY ARE GOING TO DO. Hey Sony, 
 call me when you have finished games and when you actually do all the stuff you say you are going 
 to do. LIke a politician, talk is cheap and your actions speak for themselves, when you consistently 
 put out a high priced system people continue not to buy and broken games you trick your faithful 
 followers to buy. 
  
  
  I can not believe a company so many gamers have put so much money into and the systems and games 
 is described in one word: HORRIBLE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nomad98
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 2, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  If you are like me and have been a fan of SOCOM sense the first one, you will see confrontation 
 stays true to the franchise. To bad all the flaws from 6 years back are still with us. The game 
 feels like it's still on the PS2. The lag will rip you right out of the experience if it doesn't 
 get you killed. The room menu is the same as it has always been, meaning poorly laid out and time 
 consuming to navigate. And if you played COD 4 this year it's going to feel like you are going 
 back to Pac Man. 
  
  I really have loved SOCOM in the past, it's attention to detail, it's lag of forgiveness (no health 
 regen) , and it over the shoulder view. So I am very sad to see that this game hasn't really been 
 updated to fit the times.
  
  SOCOM Confrontation has one saving grace. Push to talk. You still have to hold a button to talk 
 over the mic. And I love it. nothing takes you out of the game experience like having to hear someones 
 girlfriend nagging them about how long they have been playing. Or somebody's baby crying in the 
 background, or some kid blaring horrible music. I don't care to hear people's phones ringing, or 
 that god awful beep every ten seconds when some idiot won't put a new battery in his smoke detector. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KuRuPT-H4X
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 9:01 am PT
Review:  Well, I will describe my first experience playing the game. Being a socom veteren I have seen the 
 series grow and decline since the first game and I was thinking oh cool this is basically going 
 to be like socom 2 on the playstation 3. I soon found it was not.
  
  So after about a hour of updates I finally start. I get to the menu and I really like the design 
 but very choppy when selecting things so that kinda ruined it. Anyways I selected a channel and 
 picked a room and because of choppyness it feels uncomfortable to do. So I get in room and start 
 playing. Well on every map the load time is atleast about 5 minutes so the game finally started.
 
  
  I liked the way they start the rounds how it is black then fades to the picture. So I start playing 
 controls are about 60% the same and I saw that I was playing in the new crossroads which by the 
 way looks really good. I thought the shoulder view was pretty good too. So anyways I start out 
 get my first kill with and RPG 7 and learn that there is a new sprint feature by holding R2, I 
 thought that was a good idea. I also noticed they somewhat succeeded in making the game more tactical 
 by having more players in smaller maps. Basically that is all there is for gameplay pretty much 
 the same as other socoms except people tend to use scopes more the spray. Oh, and one other big 
 fix! When you go in the bell tower you can actually shoot over the sides unlike socom 2 where the 
 railings were too high to shoot over.
  
  Character customization is very good tons of camoflage to choose from and lots of little things 
 you can add to your characters face like bandannas and headsets.
  
  Overall I would say to buy this game but don't get angry if it is all that you wanted because once 
 you figured out all the controls it really starts to grow on you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carljohnson3456
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 7:49 pm PT
Review:  I have to admit, if I wasnt a fan of the SOCOM franchise last gen, I might have already traded 
 this game in. There. That's the beginning of my review... 
  
  When you pop in the game, you're smacked with dissapointment immediatly. The install and game patch 
 update is a pain. It takes forever. If you purchased the game in the first week or two of it's 
 release, you were welcomed to clogged servers, dropped games, and some pretty crazy lag. Fortunately, 
 with the new patch and what not, all those problems are resolved... unfortunately, the lame install 
 and network update isnt.
  
  Once you get nestled into the game, you can customize your character, which is neat. Ironically, 
 my character looks alot like Nathan Hale, and I didnt plan it that way. Also, in standard procedure, 
 you get to choose your weapons. The customization is a nice touch, and allows you to choose how 
 bad arse you want to look online.
  
  This being an online only title, it is important that you can actually find people to play against. 
 Fortunately, this isnt a problem for SOCOM Confrontation. The servers are packed to the brim with 
 players waiting to lay the pwnage, so jumping into a game is no problem.
  
  The graphics look good, but nothing spectacular. Dont be looking for this game to be mentioned 
 in a "graphics king" thread in System Wars. Some parts of the game look fantastic, but other times 
 it looks like a first generation PS3 game. Let's get to what matters most... the gameplay.
  
  The gameplay is fairly solid, but it feels pretty dated. It plays alot like the old SOCOM, 
 which is a good and bad thing. It's good in a way that it didnt stray to far from the SOCOM formula 
 that fans have come to love over the years... but it's bad because it didnt stray far enough. In 
 a generation where duck and cover is all the rage in third person shooters, I think it's pretty 
 unacceptable that Slant 6 didnt include any duck and cover at all. It's a shame that jumping is 
 an ability but sliding to cover isnt. The gun play is sharp, and you can do the typical over the 
 shoulder zoom in by tapping up on the D-pad. Kills are pretty satisfying and communication with 
 your teammates is key. You wont get too far on your own in this game. For the most part, the gameplay 
 is good... but as I said, it feels dated and could have been much better.
  
  SOCOM Confrontation is ultimately a dissapointment to me. After coming down from the COD4 high 
 I was on earlier this year... I was really hoping SOCOM Confrontation would quench my thirst for 
 some online multiplayer mayhem. Instead what I got was a fairly decent game that makes little effor 
 to stand out among other multiplayer titles. If you're a fan of the franchise, I reccommend this 
 title. If not, I'd say rent... or if you want a $50 headset, go for it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-boy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 1, 2008 6:33 pm PT
Review:  This game is alredy being fix , the graphics are great very detail, this game just like socom 3.
 
  This game only has 7 only online maps, there on single mode can customise the charathers on this 
 game
  I got few complains about this game
  This game need more maps, has toral 7 , I whish this have 14 maps
  some maps are small to play 
 like desert glory, should make bigger the map
  Should add random respawn to make the game more fun
  There few minor bugs in the game
  plus 
 should add single mode to make the game longer
  this game should add more modes to play some times the game is little laggy could fix the game 
 couples patches 
  bottom line is you love socom series then this game
  not bad for price come with game and heast seat for 60 dollar not bad, if not I recomeed buy reistance 
 2 60 players no lag look  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy4life54
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Yea so I'm sick and tired of seeing reviewers give this game a bad rating because it has no single 
 player. It has been known for nearly a year now that this game was going to have no single player. 
 If you were shocked by this, you should have crawled out from under your rock before buying it. 
 
  
  If you enjoyed Socom 2 and you played for hours on end with your friends... you can expect the 
 same experience. This game has all the fun and excitement, as well as the fantastic community of 
 Socom 2, mixed in with amazing new graphics to create Socom's best game yet! 
  
  Are there some tech issues? Of course, who expects there not to be? Will they fix them? I'd assume 
 so. Many are also complaining of the download times... if it took you 6 hours to download this, 
 once again, you shouldn't have bought it cuz your internet blows! I run this game downstairs at 
 50% internet capacity and it runs lag free... so if you're experiencing a ton of lag... obviously 
 your internet sucks. As for the 6 hour download time? You're an idiot. It takes 45 minutes to download, 
 then it usually says that "loading profile failed, please redownload"... that means bupkis. Just 
 hit cancel and you can go on your marry way playing the game... if it took you 6 hours to figure 
 that out, then don't even bother ever buying any sort of "thinking game" again... go buy Beautiful 
 Katamari and roll around for hours on end cuz clearly that's the only game you're brain is capable 
 of handling. 
  
  All in all I gave the game an 8.5 mainly because of some "gettin kicked" issues and for having 
 to push it back 2 years and still having a bunch of annoying issues that should have been taken 
 care of already. Not to say that they shouldn't have any issues, but their servers should have 
 been tested and ready long before the release... not just getting ready a month afterwards.
  
  If you haven't bought it yet, and you loved Socom 2, buy it. You won't be disappointed. Get 
 the bundle though so at least you get a headset out of it if you are. Could come in handy for Resistance 
 2 and the new Call of Duty if those games are more your style.
  
  For now, I gotta get back to whoopin up noobs on Socom, hope to see you there! Gamertag: Pinzone. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perrito59
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:26 am PT
Review:  To start this off I would like to address the reviews that do not talk about the game. If you did 
 not know there was not a story mode or campaign, then you need to learn to read the effing case 
 it says it plain as day at the top. For those people that have complained about the download time 
 on the game, why would you complain about this when it has nothing to do with the game itself. 
 For those people that love to complain about lagging and server trouble, have you really ever played 
 a multiplayer game without having people lag jump or an occasional server boot. I mean really if 
 you play COD:4 for more than an hour COD:4 will disconnect you and connect you right back. 
  
  Now that we are done with all of the crap other people stupidly complain about lets talk about 
 the game itself. 
  
  People say graphically this game is not up to par. I see where that can come from it is not anywhere 
 close to as stunning as farcry 2 or fallout 3. That doesn't mean that it is bad though either. 
 I have yet to find glitches or shading issues or any of that it is not gorgeous but not bad. Therefore: 
 
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  
  Gameplay is this games strongest part. It is very smooth. The controls if you are new to the socom 
 series can take some time. Everything is very realistic from looking around corners, throwing grenades, 
 running, and even has the nice perk of moving the gun from left to right shoulders. Communication 
 in this game wonderful the way the enemy can ease drop if you are close to them and the way can 
 communicate with your teammates is very clear with the headset. 
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  
  Functionality, from the opening screen all of the work that you have to do to get yourself into 
 a game is somewhat rediculous, from selecting a channel, and then a room and finally picking a 
 game that you want to play. The games that they have to play are a lot of fun but there are not 
 many to choose from. The other disappointing part in the different types of games you can play 
 only one type of game lets you respawn. This makes getting used to the game difficult. The rank 
 and level up system that you have is awkward it is difficult to see how far you have to go to get 
 to the next level and not all games are ranked games that help you level yourself up. The one thing 
 I think this game could have really used the ability to unlock things as you went along and leveled 
 up. It would give a purpose to the leveling system. But they don't you have access to every gun 
 and option from the start unfortunately I think this keeps a long extensive replay value down. 
 
  
  Functionality: 6/10
  
  
  Overall, SOCOM is worth the money good graphics, fun to play, and the headset is fabulous. The 
 drawbacks are no incentive for playing other than winning and losing a match leveling up your character 
 serves no purpose, takes a while to get into a match, and only one game type lets you respawn and 
 with 32 people can sometimes take a while. All in all it will be a good multiplayer game for 6 
 to 8 months and then it will start to die off. 
  
  Overall: 8/10
  
  By the way for all those people that have server problems and complain about lagging check your 
 internet connection - me and my friends have spent time on this game and it is rare if not almost 
 non existent. Thanks and good luck gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: turkmenistan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  Socom Confrontation takes you back to socom 2&3. The controls are just right, gameplay is pretty 
 much dead on. visuals are stunning. the levels are pretty much perfect.. Ok, the network needs 
 alittle bit more work. But when your finally able to login and play. The game is like the socoms 
 of old. I along with everybody else had problems at first, but just be patient. Playing the game 
 is worth the time spent dealing with the networks problems. With the new update that came out today, 
 it should fix alot of problems people are having. 
  Pros:
  1. Great levels
  2. Excellent gameplay
  3. Good controls
  4. Stunning visuals
  5. Bluetooth headset
  Cons:
 
  1. Network problems
  2. Load times
  
  So all and all it is a must buy. If your familiar to the socom series, you will love this game. 
 If your not, just be patient and you will start lovin it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  This is the first game have pissed me off to the point I wanted to through the controller to the 
 TV.
  I hear of this game on PS2 but I never played them before, and I hear of this one so I went to 
 the store and take a look. The price attracted my attention because brand new when game just came 
 out they are $59.99 and this one was $39.99 without the headset.
  I was looking for a war game to entertain myself and play some single co-op game and then multiplayer.
 
  My surprise was that this game is online multiplayer ONLY and it has so many different errors 
 or bugs.
  First of all, it takes a while to load and then you get a screen sometimes that says no rooms available 
 when there are hundreds. The one that pisses me off the most is that I get kick out from the game 
 a lot of time and some times you don't even get to play.
  There been times where, lets say I put the game at 10AM and I finally end up playing my first complete 
 game at 10:45AM, and I think that's a waste.
  The graphics are good and it is a massive multiplayer. And once you can get to play continuously 
 then it is fun. And that's the only reason I give it a '7' but otherwise it would be a grade no 
 even 1.
  On the screen you cant get to see much sometimes because on the left upper corner you see who killed 
 who and sometimes there are a bunch of people killing at once and then you get the bunch of letter 
 and almost cover your left side of the screen and easy for you to get kill.
  I regret buying this game especially since I wanted to get a single player co-op.
  On the start 
 screen says the Socom team is working on releasing a new update to correct all the errors on the 
 game but I wonder how long is it going to take??
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hockenberry
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 10:36 pm PT
Review:  I have been a Socom fan for a long time now (since the original) . And I was excited to hear that 
 a new one is coming out on to the PS3. Almost like when Warhawk was announced, everyone I know 
 couldn't wait. But sadly just like Warhawk, everyone gets disapointed at the end when they found 
 out that Socom Confrontation is only a multiplayer game. I know that Multiplayer can be fun but 
 it seems like that all the companies care about making only online games now and don't realize 
 that there are soooooo many people out there still want a single player campaign (including me) 
 instead of going online and playing against alot more tougher people than you cause they play more 
 video games than you.
  Alot people want a story line so they got something exciting going on but in multiplayer its the 
 same thing over and over again, shoot anyone that is not you and keep doing so. And for me and 
 alot of people, that is a game where alot of people can get tired of pretty fast. I hope someday 
 they will release a Socom game that has a single player campaign amd put "online multiplayer" as 
 second. That goes for all the games that do come out. Endwar is another one I would love to get 
 but the 
  "online only" is stopping me from getting it. Disappointing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cocacolafresh
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 27, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  OOOOOK. SOOOOOOO. this game really caught my eye when i was at target looking at the games. the 
 game's box looked REALLY awsome, so i bought it. i tried it... eh... lag issues, and boring. lag 
 isnt a big deal to me as long as i have fun when i do play. BUT, the biggest thing for me is that 
 it was too slow for me. i like run and gun games (cod4 so pwns this, im sorry) also, the lighting 
 is quite horrible. i will admit this game has its' moments. the close quarter combat moments are 
 pretty nice. another thing is that its kinda hard to find ppl in this game. like i said, im more 
 of a run and gun person. if u like games like cod4, STICK WITH THAT... but still buy this; the headset 
 is a good value, and the games is... eh alright. this is the first socom game iv played, so im guessing 
 socom isnt the franchise for me. if ur a socom veteran... ud probably like this alot more than i 
 do. all in all, this game wasnt bad, just not the game for me. im guna stick with cod4, but this 
 headset is quite sexy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rodolfotramos
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  The only problems other than the network is that there isn't one single forest map on this game. 
 I'm sure they're planing on selling one in the near future but they should've released at least 
 one with the game.
  The other thing is the aim of some of the weapons, i know they can't be really steady but that 
 was too much moving around in my opinion.
  Other than that this game is awesome and it comes with an awsome headphone. Gamespot is just trying 
 to give SOCOM a hard time because they're big EA Games butt kissers, they hardly advertised it, 
 how would they know it was going to have network problems?
  Whatever! This Game Is Awesome!!!!!!
  I can't wait until they fix their network issues and start 
 releasing new maps. For you that has played Socom from the beginning of the series, you know this 
 game is something else. Gamespot should've waited to rate this game. They'll regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiBlakAngel
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 27, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  What to say about this. Well they dropped the ball. Most of the time nothing get saved.. When it 
 can save the info so you can get ranks.. You crash a lot.
  
  The graphics are good, and the lighting seems to give a good visual. I also like the set-up. Choosing 
 what weapons you are going to start off with per match and the weight really adds a nice change. 
 Though I am not sure if more stuff will be avaliable one you rank up due to not yet bein able to 
 save my stats and tanking. But with all the lag and crashing and server problems. I might try it 
 again in a few month.
  
  The only redeeming aspect was i got the blue tooth headset, and it was like getting a game for 
 $10.
  
  I know i should say more about this game but there is just sooo much wrong with it right now that 
 it hurts thinking about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dany_sabin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The game did have network issues. Very many people jumped on the servers and there was too much 
 stress for them to handle the load. Every few days more servers are popping up and the load is 
 getting lighter and lighter (great for getting into games fast.) I'm not certain what the review 
 ment about broken stat tracking. My stats work but only update for the ranked games found always 
 running on top of the game list. 
  
  As for the game, I agree the controls are tricky and switching weapons isn't as flawless as call 
 of duty. Also nades -  pistol -  primary weapon doesn't really switch as you expect. Sometimes 
 you get nades and sometimes you get a pistol : ( Aside from all this the rest of the controls are 
 fluid. All the mic comms in the game really help teamwork, spotting enemies and such. The game 
 modes are just enough to add more than just straight deathmatch. It's necessary to really work 
 with a partner to stay alive. The weapon and armor customization really helps get a player the 
 feel they want in the game. Also its amazing how in every round it's important to make sure that 
 all the players have a balance of snipers/assult rifles/smgs/shotties... The team really does do 
 better if all the roles are filled.
  
  I have never played Socom before and it is hard to pick up a controller and just shoot people. 
 The game requires the use of cover and slower advancement to flank the enemy as well as better 
 placement of shots as its easy to just shoot at someone and alert them of your position. 
  
  All in all the game adds a more intense concentration that requires you to plan attacks. 
 
  
  I know there are many bad reviews out on the internet right now (which i don't fully understand) . 
 The game fills a void on the next gen systems that no other tactical shooter can reall handle (vegas 
 was close) . It does it's job well and i strongly recommend this game to any who wants a good solid 
 shooter that isn't just a 13 year old kid shootout. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidkratos816
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2008 11:42 am PT
Review:  Don't get me wrong. The game is fun and engaging. Heck it is very addicting as well. But there 
 is a major problem that sets the game behind: It can't seem to hold up with all the people that 
 are playing. When you join a 32 player match the game freezes! But the rest of the matches seem 
 to work fine. There are many pros about the game though. The customization is deep, the weapons 
 work beautifully, the controls are ok, and the graphics are nice as well. I personally don't care 
 about a single player missing as this is a multiplayer only game and the real thing will be coming 
 later. It is a great game to play if your a fan of the series or if you are just looking for a 
 online only shooter to tide you over. The game is said to get better and will be expanded over 
 time. Worth the purchase with the mic
  
  
  P. S. The mic is FANTASTIC!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air4rce1
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 26, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  I will be as straight forward as possible.
  
  Most multiplayer heavy games do suffer "some" server issues initially, this game has come close 
 to EMBARRASING. Between corrupted profile data, the inability to connect to channels and matches, 
 the in-game freezing, the crashing of the PS3 system have made the release of SOCOM Confrontation 
 the worst of any shooting game I've ever played.
  
  Despite all these issues, when you finally get to play, it is GREAT Which if you get lucky, it 
 will be 10 minutes out of every hour. Game play realism is no joke. Team play is outstanding. Game 
 options incredible.
  
  HOWEVER, Confrontation has frozen and crashed my system more in the last 3 weeks than Burnout Paradise, 
 CoD4 and Warhawk COMBINED in the last YEAR.
  
  Graphically this game looks like TRASH. On a 56 inch 1080p DLP this game seriously HURTS my eyes 
 after the 10 minutes I get to play. CoD4, Burnout, Assasins Creed and Warhawk (2007 games) have 
 better graphics than this 2008 junk.
  
  This game is NOT worth they hype, and I'm very dissapointed at SONY for trashing this nice sequel 
 of the game.
  
  Just so you know I'm not a total hater, here are some POSITIVES:
  
  GAME PLAY - SICK 9.5/10
  MIC - 10/10 (love the mute feature) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Foxtrot493
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 10:22 pm PT
Review:  Whats there to say about SOCOM Confrontation, i loved every second of it... which is pretty accurate, 
 seeing how i could manage one round maximum before getting a frozen screen.
  
  Let's take it back a couple of days, over at the Gamestop in South Coast plaza, where i had inquired 
 about issues i had heard about with SOCOM, he described the servers as well, crappy. Cautiously 
 Optimistic i installed the game on my hard drive after downloading it from PSN. 
  
  I spent the first couple of minutes customizing my character and doodling with the VERY in depth 
 weapon customization, not the GREATEST variety of options, but certainly very open ended with weapon 
 choices, from an EOTech Reflex Scope, to a simple bipod, they didn't let me down on this aspect... then 
 i tried to join a game. I was deeply frustrated at the loading of the rooms, often timing out of 
 the room or being kicked by the room, not on one occasion while they were greening up, but on a 
 streak of about 7-9 games, then i decided to wait until later to go into a game. 
  
  When i did manage to bring myself to my TV again, i got into a room considerably quickly, Plopped 
 into the smoke of the starting game, it took me around 2 minutes to figure out the control scheme 
 ( i prefer finding out the controls through trial and error rather looking at the control scheme 
 in the option menu) . The game from there was considerably enjoyable until midway through the game 
 when my character froze. I tried to push the PS button, but no response, i almost panicked but 
 decided it was best to just shut down my PS3 (i considered the possible danger of damaging my system, 
 and decided it was worth the risk, i lack judgment, well good judgment) . 
  
  Ever since that my, that was how my SOCOM Sessions have been running down. From what i played the 
 Gameplay was a solid and familiar experience, Definitely not worth a 6.5, but gamespot did call 
 it correctly, the bugs and server issues ultimately became too much for me to fully enjoy my $39.99. 
 Dont get me wrong, i really enjoy the tactical setting of SOCOM, quite frankly i think CoD4 has 
 spoiled my shooter tactics. 
  
  
  Final Verdict: Potentially a Classic with a server upgrade, and new patches, but until then its 
 just a buggy and laggy shooter eclipsed by other games coming in the next few months. Looking forward 
 to Slant Six's solution for the myriad of problems they let slide before release. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: La-Li-Lu-Le-Lo-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 11:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is absolutely great, i really think it was reviewed prematurely, i was very surprised 
 that it was reviewed the way it was, i figured it would be cut some slack for its temporary problems, 
 problems that me and you both know will be resolved fairly soon, i mean the socom series is huge 
 the number of people joining servers during release were overwhelming, i see people here writing 
 bad reviews only mentioning how buggy and laggy the game is i mean come on you know its gonna be 
 fixed to perfection, the game is being worked on as we speak, patches are on the way people just 
 relax. Socom is a great game a game that requires pure skill, unlike call of duty you cannot run 
 and gun with a uav sweep and expect to be victorious, you don't get a cute rader that shows you 
 your enemy's positions every time they fire the slightest round socom fortunately isn't noob friendly 
 and is highly recommended to any one who likes a game with fully automatic weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: megantereon
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Frustrated by server problems, but should have been fixed. The game itself is more detailed than 
 COD4. The servers must be more of a frustration to the game designers who did such a great job. 
 The maps are excellent. I am patient enough for them to fix the server issues while I gain experience. 
 With a smooth server this would be one of the best shooters ever. Weapons selection and physics 
 are accurate, and the lighting and shading both day and night are very good. Working with team 
 mates is an advantage. I would not worry too much about servers this early in the game. Those problems 
 can be fixed and adapted to the large number of players. It gets better each day. I have updated 
 this review since the logging onto a multiplayer game is still a daunting task. I have stopped 
 playing this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SnoSlider-PS3-
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Map designs are incredible! Character development is top notch. Realism in movement and weapons 
 handling is ON POINT. If you aren't set in a stance when you fire your weapon, you might get lucky 
 with a head shot. Your chance of a successful gun battle improves greatly from setting up shots, 
 more so when crouched or prone. 
  Game modes are the best, all the classics are here as well as some refreshing new options. 
  
 This game should be more fun than frustrating when a patch is made. Unfortunatly, right now we 
 have to wait and hope. I believe Slant Six will do the right thing. So far on the official site, 
 Slant Six acknowledges that their product needs repair. Unfortunatly they give a vague time frame 
 ofa couple of weeks or so."
  The potential is tremendous, but currently the game falls short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ruiner000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Yeah the gamestop review was about deadon, if you liked socom, or military shooters in general, 
 this is a good game. It could be borderline great.... if only.
  
  The good, All things socom, great communication, proximity chat is a neat affect (over your tv, 
 you'll pick up all nearby voice communication, friendly and enemy. The teamwork, the fun times 
 with friends.
  
  Then..... You freeze
  
  Or you lag, and one guy takes out ur final 4 men in one clip, matrix style.
  
  Then..... you 
 freeze again.
  
  when the game/servers are acting right, 4 hours can zoom by. when your game freezes for the 3rd 
 time in 25 minutes. that ps3 restart time can seem like eternity
  
  so yeah, this game has potential, for now its just a space filler for all the top notch games being 
 released by christmas.
  
  Socom, fix ya servers, throw up a glitch update, and lets make this game what it should be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Viper2847
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 8:57 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing. As long as you view the game as if it doesnt have the server/bug issues (because 
 eventually it will be fixed) its an astounding game in every way in terms of gameplay, graphics 
 and especially sound. The few games I did play where everything ran smooth without any issues PROVES 
 that when this game gets patched up it will be amazing and its by far the best socom game to date. 
 Another great thing about socom is how almost everyone has headsets so the games dont go without 
 talking as many other online games on PS3. The headset is also a must have because the game is 
 completely team based so it comes very handy to use for making strategies with your fellow teammates 
 and friends. I totally recommend this game to anyone interested in a great realistic/tactical online 
 shooter with so much action that at times it might make you think you are in a real warzone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fsaxon07
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  If you look at the top of the page it says I have played this game between 20-40 hrs, which is 
 true. Saying this only 1:45 has been recorded due to server's either bumping me off or the game 
 freezing my machine. I played games like madden and ncaa football for hours on end without freezing, 
 in the week I have had SOCOM my machine has frozen 10+ times. I don't know what is wrong with this 
 game but they need to fix it, fast. I also do not know why they did not use more of the Bluray 
 disc. A Bluray disc has so much memory capability that there could be 20 maps and 100 guns with 
 20 different attachments. It seems to be a waste of the Bluray disc and its technology. I am probably 
 one more week away from trading this game into Gamestop and getting store credit or new game that 
 doesn't freeze. All of the game modes are challenging and fun but it really sucks when you have 
 some good rounds going and then something happens with the servers or the machine and cause all 
 that data to not count. If it was not for the machine freezing or servers bumping people off this 
 would be a 10 and I would be playing it right now and not complaining about it. This game has amazing 
 gameplay and is a game I could play for hours on end, the game just simply doesn't let me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowWhiteHawk
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 23, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  If you're looking for team tactics, there is no better than SOCOM: Confrontation. Metal Gear Online 
 may be a strong competitor, but SOCOM games have a strong community of tactical fans following 
 them for a long time now.
  
  The community is full of teamplay-eager players and several clans. There are little to no people 
 fooling around, so you can expect a solid community experience.
  The game is extremely well balanced, with all weapons suiting their purpose without overpowering 
 the others.
  
  The gameplay is intuitive and tactical, as you'd expect, and microphones are everywhere: The boxed 
 version comes with a mic, and even those who download it often get a headset regardless.
  
  The customization is excellent: You get to customize your character's facial appearance, outfit, 
 accessories, weapons and equipment. All maps have both day and night versions, with varying gameplay 
 types, from capturing strategic locations to rescuing hostages or blowing up someone's weapon cache. 
 =P
  
  The clan system is equally well developed: The ranking system allows the clan leader to promote 
 his members as his clan evolves, by gaining Officer Points. You can even customize your clan's 
 insignia, motto and change your name and tag when you feel you're tired of them.
  
  Management is easy and feels just right. Your clan rank and insignia will then appear on your actual 
 character during play, and by creating a clan you choose from 5 different special forces from around 
 the world, each with their own characteristic weapon and armor, plus some headgears, that allow 
 you to customize your commando further depending on your clans allegiance.
  
  So why is this game constantly getting bad or "reasonable" reviews? Well, you see... the game is, 
 from a technical point of view, flawed. It feels like a beta: the servers go down every once in 
 a while for maintenance, it's getting patched all the time and sometimes things go wrong. For instance, 
 until recently, the statistics weren't recording properly.
  There are some features that aren't in the game (yet) , such as rolling while prone or diving while 
 running. These details aren't essencial, but they were advertised, and as such should be in the 
 so called "final" version.
  
  Basically, you are paying for a game that isn't finished, BUT not abandoned - they are still developing 
 it and dealing with these issues. Essencially, you are paying for a game still being worked on. 
 So is it worth it? Heh, well, if you love tactical gaming and teamwork, and don't mind some minor 
 annoyances more often than usual, this is THE game for you, as gameplay wise it is refined to perfection. 
 But if you feel like you can't stand a game that looks like it got released too early you should 
 steer clear or consider waiting.
  
  Overall, the best online game ever for fans of the SOCOM series and tactical junkies, dragged down 
 by it's unfinished state ( For the time being ) .
  
  I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Wellman
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:52 am PT
Review:  First off... I have played all the previous SOCOMs and as a matter of fact I'm still using the 
 headset that came with the first one. I do recommend buying the bundle because if you don't like 
 the game you can at least have one of the best bluetooth headsets around.
  
  I decided to wait over a week to rate this game just for the fact that when It first came out I 
 spent hrs. trying to join a game and just a few mins. connected. If I was lucky enough to get connected! 
 The servers seem to have stabilized some, but I still get disconnected after a few hrs. of straight 
 playing. My main complain is with the LAG of this game. I have a wired connection with over 12MB 
 of bandwidth speed and the game still lags in crucial moments... i. e.: During firefights!
  
  Noobs are going to have a hard time figuring out this game 'cause there is no single player 
 campaign, which is something that I really enjoyed in the previous SOCOMs. It gave me a better 
 feel of the maps when playing the game online.
  If you plan on ranking up in the game you have to join and/or create a clan, which kinda makes 
 sense. SOCOM was created for teamwork! So if you plan on playing this game like COD4 and run-and-gun 
 like a maniac you may luck out a few times, but you will get killed like crazy. You can't aim as 
 quickly in this game as you can in COD4 and the player movement is slowed down big time.
  
  I believe that if Slant Six comes out with some patches to be able to pick your custom Loadouts 
 during gameplay and maybe some factions for the Mercenaries the game would be more enjoyable. I 
 really tried to find some reasons to give the game a higher score, but after being spoiled by COD4 
 for so many months, it was hard to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingotnw
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  First off, I am new to this series. I played a lot of Ghost Recon and Rainbow 6, but I never had 
 a PS2 so I didn't get a chance to play this series. That being said, I think this is a good game.
 
  
  I haven't had any of the issues that the reviewrs keep talking about aside from the scope problem, 
 and I am assuming that will be fixed. I have had no problems getting into online games or anything. 
 Now, onto the game play...
  
  THe interface is a little clunky to start out with. It takes some time to get used to, itd s bit 
 cumbersome and slow compared to similar games, but once you get it down its fine. The motion sensor 
 stuff for leaning is also a bit hard to get used to but once you have the sensor set how you like 
 it everything is fine. 
  
  The graphics of the game are a little on the weak side, but in this day and age I think once you 
 hit a point its good enough. Socom reaches that point. The frame rate is consistant and the animations 
 are done well. There is blood, but not a ton of gore. Games like Brothers in arms in my opinion 
 have a bit too much. I don't see any need to show limbs being blow off in games like this. 
  
  All in all, I think the game is great. There is a pretty steep learning curve for newcomers, 
 I would imagine that is due to the popularity of the older games in the series, but the same can 
 be said for any tac shooter. For 39.99, this is a must have. Hell, I got the 59.99 version because 
 I wanted a good headset and this did the job perfectly. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leuvera
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:38 am PT
Review:  The best tactical shooter on market right now. Totally different from simply, easy and brainless 
 CODs, Battelfields etc. If you liked rainbow six (not vegas :/) or Americas Army style of gameplay, 
 and you can handle few more buttons than left, right, shoot (gamespot rewiever cant) - just buy. 
 If you are casual player - there are tons of easy, nice and simple other games. Online problems 
 are history now or review dont know how to use channels in lobby. If you are in USA do not use 
 EU channels - maybe then you will be able to play without lags? :/ I spent about 40 hrs in socom 
 and maybe 2 times got disconneted - that was all problems with connection.
  
  P. S. To the author of GS review: If the next socom will be look like stupid cod, becouse of reviews 
 like this crap - I will find you, and then... you better RUN! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkpimpdp
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 22, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I was a big fan of the PS2 versions of this series and i have to say that this game is a complete 
 was of a blu ray disk. I was a little disappointed that the was no campain mode but i was willing 
 to look past it if online was fun but this game was a joke. It took forever to find a match although 
 it played somewhat ok for me ,only had a bit of lag on 1 occasion. Graphics were a joke. I've seen 
 PS2 games that looked better that this. Texture were blurry and crap and yes I was playing on a 
 hi def tv with the hdmi cable so it couldnt be that i was playing on a lousy tv cause I dont think 
 that a sony tv would do that to a sony console. The only thing I happy with about this game is 
 that I got a bluetooth headset. I can only hope that the original creators of Socom are working 
 on a single player version that takes advantage of the PS3 hardware and that it includes multiplayer 
 because that will be the only way this series can redeem itself. The biggest regret I have is that 
 I lost the receipt so i could return game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Normaral85
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  I know that I haven't purchased the final copy and be able to give my take on the whole game, but 
 from what I've seen of it, I really enjoyed it. For some, the downed server will probably be off 
 putting, but I'm really sure that after everything is in order, that everyone that has taken the 
 step to purchase this game will rate this game extremely high. For me that great environment that 
 I got to experience on the level that it was at, was something that I will purchase in days to 
 come. The only issue that I can state at this time is that my internet connection would disconnect 
 me from time to time because of the tax that it was goin through. The game itself looked amazing 
 and the target system was on point with what I expected from the franchise. Even though, I have 
 never really be into the franchise, this game has opened my eye to a great overall experience with 
 a totally online based shooter. I really never really care much for games that focused greatly 
 on story modes and what not. Only because I often became bored with the whole idea of play though 
 them to advance my character's level. To me the online only play was a great move. I don't want 
 to pop in a game be disappointed because the campaign were unexpiring to me or that the story itself 
 feels soo unrealistic. I like the idea of play with people that are at lower and sometime even 
 higher levels to me so that I can either own newbs or have to step up my level of play to compete 
 with players that don't have a life so to say. That's why in my opinion this game and it's format 
 was something that endorse and would recommend to others to jump on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zapbranagan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  
  I have to say that I have not played any of the previous SOCOM games. But I did hear alot about 
 them, that's why I went with this one.
  
  I knew once this game launched there would be problems. I had been playing the BETA for about a 
 month before the release. It had alot of the same issues people have been complaining about. Lag, 
 freezing and other graphical problems. One being with me my guys left hand being stuck to my forehead 
 which at times can block my shooting target.
  
  Slant 6 is gonna be busy fixing all these problems. Then they'll have to fix all the other stuff 
 people are whining about. Like how you can't find the rooms your friends are playing in.
  
  But I willing to be that Slant 6 didn't want to release the game so early. I bet the pressure from 
 sony is why alot of this game is unfinished. 
  
  But I still love the game. Alot of the problems are now fixed. It does require alittle more skill 
 then games like COD4. But what's wrong with gamers today? You don't enjoy I challenge? I highly 
 recommend this game to the player who enjoys a challenge and loves teamwork. I see this game improving 
 alot over the next few weeks here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FootballGamer
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:51 pm PT
Review:  Please avoid at all cost. This is coming from a day 1 of Socom 1 fan. The game is broken and unplayable. 
 There are to many other great games out and on their way out to worry about wasting your time on 
 this piece of crap. I hate to say it, but Socom is officially dead. I am 26 years old, and I can 
 tell you that games like this need to be weeded out the way the economy is today. Slant 6 doesnt 
 deserve our money, and doesnt deserve the title of game developers. Thats it for me. I hope Far 
 Cry can fill some type of void and dissapointment that I am feeling after playing this game. The 
 sad part is that I bought my PS3 at launch for this game and this game only. The game was delayed 
 many times, and still came out broken. Also, dont even get me started on how they only added 4 
 new maps. How do you spend that much time on a game and even delay it a few times, yet you still 
 cant get it together. There is also no single player which is no biggie, but it makes you wonder 
 what the hell were they spending their time on all these years? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BaTMan243
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I don't get why so many are complaining and why Gamespot gave this game a horrible score! This 
 game is definately one of the best on the PS3 and tons of fun. I remember in old socom games all 
 i played was online and glad thats what this one offers. Now i dont have to be bothered with the 
 campaign 3 times to unlock guns. Anyway, this game is a great shooter with a lot of different options 
 and if youre a fan of shooters you'll love it. Yes, the first couple days and at bad times the 
 servers have had trouble. The game has been out for a week and there has been thousands of players, 
 give it a break. Judge this game on its gameplay. I wouldnt expect any less than an 8 especially 
 if youre a fan of the series, its the best one so far! give this one a try before you blow it off 
 cause of some of these reviews. If you dont, well then less people clogging the serves and those 
 who are loyal will be playing some fast and smooth gameplay in no time, your loss! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuissWii
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  I have played socom since 2000. This is the most complete socom game made. I am disappointed with 
 the network issues. This has been a problem on socom since socom came out. Slant 6 was very responsive 
 with patches during the beta. I am sure they will do the same with the game. Once the patch has 
 been released this will be the best online shooter on the ps3. I also suggest that Gamespot re-review 
 this game as well. The maps, guns, and gameplay are what make this game. The socom series has never 
 been about stunning graphics and environments. This is different in confrontation. Confrontation 
 has phenomenal envrionments and great cover for any style play. The game really puts you in the 
 mood with the lighting and shadow effects on different maps. With 7 maps included for 39.99 and 
 more to come. You can't lose. The game has a high replay value and will be played until SOCOM 4 
 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DanTHE420man
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 10:52 am PT
Review:  There are still some issue to be resolved with this game. But the score that everyone keeps giving 
 socom is not right, so I decided to go along with my own and most other fans of the series. I dont 
 care who will stop playing this game, there will be plenty more players online who are true socom 
 fans. I would highly appreciate if slant6 will fix the problems asap so people can stop complaining 
 because we did pay for this game, and the beta was out for a while but many games have issues in 
 the beggining. Overall the game is great I love the experience of all the socoms cant get enough 
 of them, so addicting. S1 and S2 are classics and the best ones but this sure is up there for me 
 dont go with other reviews prblems will be solved and this is a great game. [CoR] Clan recruiting 
 add DanTHE420man to your friends list if intrested GB soon involved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  Sure the bugs stink, but that should let you miss out on some of the best online gaming you'll 
 ever come across. It super fun. the community is fantastic, and everyone is using a headset and 
 communicating quite well (and constantly saying, wow if it weren't for these bugs i'd give this 
 a 9/10, and other things along those lines) . 
  
  the graphics aren't the best, but they look good, are highly detailed, and the maps are massive 
 and quite varied in design and setting. urban wasteland really stands out for me, a big war destroyed 
 city with massive craters from bombs all over that expose underground tunnels and pipelines that 
 lead to different areas on the map, huge hotels and apartment building full of close quarters battle 
 squeeze points, its got big highways running through it overlooking big open areas full of cars 
 and truck etc, and even a big stadium. 
  
  the sound design is also great. its very intense, loud, realistic, and if you have surround sound 
 you are in for a treat. also worth noting is the great use of sony's new awesome head sets. to 
 talk to teams around you, simply speak to them as if they really are next to you, and if you have 
 surround sound, their responding voices will come from the directions they stand at, at the volume 
 they speak it at, and your able to tell how far away they are just by the volume of their voice, 
 and if they yell from a short distance you might be able to still hear them. but if they're too 
 far to simply speak with, you hold down L2 and use a communications device like a walky talky. 
 its awesome. i mean really awesome you gotta check it out. so other than that and the great weapons 
 sounds, explosions sound great and so do all the other little sounds. 
  
  the bugs do suck though at this point, but i've been able to play atleast a 100 games with lag 
 coming and going, and having to deal with the game freezing several times. but i did get hours 
 on end of smooth game after game after game. the community is great, you come back and everyone 
 is like oh sweet whatsup? yeah i hope they patch this soon but the game is awesome i dont want 
 to stop playing etc etc
  
  i say buy it, and get it at the store because you get a head set thats excellent thats valued at 
 $50. its a steal
  
  buy this game, and add me i'm DeMolay88 i'll show you around! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:51 am PT
Review:  I usually try and give a game the right amount of play before I review one. In this case however 
 I can't. You are probably wondering why can't you, well the answer is quite simple. You can't even 
 get on the server long enough to create your character. That and getting disconnected every ten 
 minutes or so it seems.
  This game had so much potential but feels very rushed for a game that was in development for two 
 years. The character creation seems to have been borrowed from Rainbow Six Vegas 2, a much better 
 game in my eyes. The graphics are pretty good, but not the best I have seen. But the sounds are pretty 
 good. Most of the guns sound true to form and the buildings crumbling is done ok too.
  But all the minor points that this game does right does not even come close to the amount of time 
 you waste in trying to find a game to play, trying to re-connect to the servers or delving through 
 the license agreements every single time.... one time is enough, seriously. I am very dissappointed 
 at this game and have put it up for sale already. Seems the only good thing that came from this 
 game is the bluetooth headset. Just rent this game and don't buy it. I am going to buy FarCry 2 when 
 I sell this. Terrible game, just terrible for the TWO YEARS it took to make. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winecigarette
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 7:30 am PT
Review:  The game itself is good disregarding the minor problems with the game. If you think about it the 
 game itself is okay, but if you get the game and the headset is a good package. If you did not 
 think of getting this game think again cause the package is a good deal from my perspective. (even 
 if it is for the headset) this game is not a game that you would regret getting (even if it is 
 for the headset) (I believe if you are going to play any online game you should have a headset)
 
  Game itself is slow compared to cod4, controllers are easy to get used too, compared to previous 
 socom games it is a notch down in handling abilities (nothing a couple of hours of play won't fix) 
 graphic is decent.... In all this game is worth the time and price tag (even if it is just for the 
 headset) 
  ps. it takes some time to download the new updates (40 minutes for every little thing that needs 
 to be done before playing.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marklovesbaseba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  the graphics are very nice on an hd tv
  the gameplay is classic soccom u got to love it...
  there r some bugs but look at all games these days they all do but in a couple weeks a patch will 
 come out or somthing...
  you can play this game for hours and realize uve played 5 hours...
  dont listen to gamespot reviews 
 for ps3 games they always r extremely harsh...
  look at madden it got an 8! that game deserved a 5 at best it was true garbage...
  if u like 
 shooters and fun online play this game is yours and the mic this game comes with is absolutly amazing 
 its a great mic making this game really worth it and if u like the mic u already have then just 
 wait and buy it used
  the last thing i can say is that the clan setup is revolutionary i mean clans r actually considered 
 and u can actuallu organize a clan battle unlike COD...
  overall i would give...
  graphics 9
  gameplay 9
  servers 8
  overall fun 10
  clans 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oobaka67
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:49 am PT
Review:  There are just too many bugs / problems with this game to mention them all. One of the main problems 
 is server lag.
  I've yet to play this game without seeing the entire game "hiccup" at least a dozen times during 
 one map.
  Everyone else sees it happening at the same time so it's obviously not just me.
  
  Another problem with the server is that it always seems to be down. I've been turned away by 
 the server more times than I managed to get online. 
  
  Night vision doesn't work (and you aren't able to run with it on which is ridiculous) 
  
  Quick 
 swapping weapons is also broken. You can't change weapons while running. In order to quick swap, 
 you sometimes have to stop moving altogether. Not very quick.
  
  That's just a small taste of the problems with this game.
  
  Extremely disappointing
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: boogernator
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 4:48 am PT
Review:  SOCOM Confrontation is enjoyable to play once you new the controls. It is the best TPS on the ps3, 
 GameSpot rated this game 6.5 because it had no offline gameplay. I wold of rated this game an 9/10 
 if it only had offline game play. I would not recommend this game to anyone new to the SOCOM series 
 because it will take a while for you to get a hang with the controls. However, take a risk. I would 
 recommend you buying the bundle SOCOM: Confrontation bundle because it's around 89 dollar value. 
 However it cost $59.99 in retail.
  
  CONS: the install time is long, the update time is even longer, and there is no offline game play, 
 not even a training mode.
  
  PROS: gun customization, character customization, fairly easy to kill, includes blue tooth headset 
 (socom bundle) , people are nice online, and the lag is not serious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -1513-
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 22, 2008 2:32 am PT
Review:  I think the game has good graphics and sweet maps when the game is running smooth it is another 
 call of duty 4 but more realistic and with out the story mode. When they get the server issues 
 worked out and the stats fixed that will make it a lot better. I do wish it was easer to invite 
 people in your rooms now you have tell people the channel your on then the room your in it sucks 
 if your in the middle of a game and have to go and text that in. The tactical side of the game 
 is nice. I play the game at a slower pace than cod4 but faster than vegas2 for the most part, especially 
 if re-spawns are not allowed. It nice to get in a room with people that have mics and know how 
 to use them. It would also be nice if you didn't push a button to talk. If they would fix these 
 issues I would bump the rating up to 9 or a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ROCZTAR
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:27 pm PT
Review:  This is the most boring clearly unfinished game I have ever played! there is no single player campaign 
 which I just don't see why not .. online co-op? anyway it has no ambiance no imersion no fun .. 
 they call this tactical??? what's so tactical about running around a map looking for your enemy? 
 the weapon selection n upgrades are weak camo customization colors look like mushed clay and I 
 know every one is saying that you can't review this game yet but why not this is what they put 
 out and this is what I paid for so yeah it sucks bad! and this is the reason i paid $600 for a 
 ps3? lol I spend 30 - 45 mins fidleing with the menus trying to join a game , this is NOT how I 
 want to spend my gaming time! what a piece of crap graphics are bland with no texture weapns are 
 also bland with no detail this is total crap .. yeah the original socom was fun .... 10 years ago! 
 , it's 100% boring .. much rather play COD4 / COD WAW Beta / BF: BC / R6V2 .. im just pissed becuase 
 it's the biggest let down in gaming history IMO n I was so looking forward to this game since the 
 PS3 release all that waiting for this???? lmao bye bye sony hello ebay =] 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keyser27
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:23 pm PT
Review:  Ok, 
  
  This game shipped and promptly crashed the PSN so badly you not only couldn't play IT, but you 
 couldn't play ANYTHING. I waited the first day I tried to play for 4 hours trying to play a single 
 match. I was so frustrated I didn't pick it up again until tonight.
  
  I halfheartedly played COD4. It's ok; decent graphics, but laggy and hardly playable with it's 
 poor matchmaking and bad server front end. Warhawk is great fun, but the inclusion of vehicles 
 and steep learning curve understandably keeps a lot of people away. I've never cared for SOCOM, 
 but I got recruited for a clan in warhawk. When they got SOCOM, I went ahead and got SOCOM, and 
 after spending a few hours tonight on it... I'm just blown away.
  
  Graphics: It ain't about flash. The graphics are solid... but it's the little things that get you. 
 Little touches like being a building and seeing dust and debris fall from the ceiling because an 
 enemy or friend is above you walking around... that's just AWESOME. 
  
  Sound: This is this games hugest most impressive feat. In other games, when you hear a weapon being 
 fired 100 ft away and around a corner, the volume is less and it MAY appear in the appropriate 
 speaker. In this game, the ECHO effects and bass/treble and characteristics of the weapon in the 
 distance change depending on whether the sound is passing over water, through a tunnel, around 
 a corner, in an alley, etc... if you round the corner, the gunfire sounds clear, ducking back around 
 the corner will change the sound again. MINDBLOWING. Another amazing feature: proximity mic. What 
 they have done here is crossed the OPEN MIC (mic always transmitting, like COD4) with the PTT (Push 
 To Talk, like Warhawk) If you just talk, you voice is heard through the SPEAKERS of everyone within 
 earshot... as if you are a character in the game. If they walk away from you you can't hear them 
 as loudly, and if they are 40 or so feet away, you can't hear them at ALL. BRILLIANT. Hitting you 
 PTT button radios your message to everyone on your team, regardless of distance. Where this gets 
 awesome is that if some moron on the other team is chatting away or playing music loudly, you will 
 HEAR him through your speakers from around corners, etc and can pop out and blast him since he 
 has no idea you are around the corner.
  
  Map Design: Excellent. The maps are bigger than COD4's sorry maps. Sorry, but COD had some GARBAGE 
 maps. These are big enough to move around in, and feature, like real life, places to hide... dead 
 ends, alleys, etc. The map design is more focused on being lifelike, not in having nowhere to hide. 
 Sometimes you may get cornered, other times you may have to do the flushing out... either way is 
 brilliant fun. 
  
  Weapons: Fixes the biggest problem with COD4 weapons: the selector switch. Weapons KICK in this 
 game... so full auto mode will have you inaccurate and aiming in the air in a few short rounds... 
 so you can switch to single shot if applicable... or full auto, or 3 round burst depending on weapon. 
 Also fixes the second biggest problem in COD4, weapons also can be fitted with scopes... BUT you 
 don't sacrifice the ability to fire accurately aimed rounds and be forced to decide between HIGH 
 magnification or hip firing. You can still aim well, and can switch shoulders and scope into/out 
 of/magnification with the dpad. PERFECT... it's quick, simple, and very intuitive.
  
  I'm keeping this short, I could go on, but the bottom line is, this game is AWESOME when the PSN 
 is working. I don't believe that being free is an excuse to suck. Sony has come MILES in the last 
 few days on this issue, and I'm sure will have it solid before long... but if it plays as well 
 as it did today from now on, I'd be EXTREMELY happy with this game.
  
  I give it a 9 now. I'd have given it a 2 last week, and if EVERYTHING gets worked out, I'd give 
 it a 9.5. There are a few minor issues that we are used to... stat tracking problems, etc, but 
 those will get ironed out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: winnerjay
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 10:08 pm PT
Review:  I agree with Gamespot's review with the technical issues holding back the overall effectiveness 
 of the game, however, i will try to look past the network problems and appreciate the game for 
 what it is, a very solid strategic shooter.
  
  I do agree there are fundamental flaws with S: C that in all reality should not exist in 2008, such 
 as: Lag, dropping, and a terrible friend list and party system. There really is no reason you should'nt 
 be able to join a friends game from the list. Especially when you consider that this is a game 
 so deeply rooted in Team and clan play. Is this game as accessible as a Halo or a CoD4? No, not 
 at all, BUT, if you are willing to put up with the technical short coming there is a good game 
 to be found. 
  
  i think the game play of S: C is right where it should be, Tried and true Socom tactical action. 
 If you are looking for an explosive Frag fest this game is not for you, but if you want a more 
 slow paced, stratigic type of game play, where every firefight has a true feel of life and death 
 S: C could be right up your alley. The realistic damage model and precise shooting make every battle 
 seem exciting. 
  
  As far as the Maps, three are classic Socom maps that have slight changes and updated graphics, 
 where as the rest are all new. They all have a nice unique feel from one another, and all vary 
 pretty well in size, scope, and look to them. All in all i think the limited offering of maps at 
 launch are well done. 
  
  Is this the greatest game ever made? no, Is this even the best Socom ever made? I am not sold yet. 
 however, i think what it brings to the table it is AT LEAST worth a look for Socom and non Socom 
 fans alike, like i said earlier, if you are looking at this to be the next call of duty you are 
 going to wind up being disappointed, however, if you look at Socom as a Unique experience where 
 team work and patience are paramount over twitch reflexes you could wind up having a really good 
 time. WELL worth 40$, especially when you consider this is just an initial offering with constant 
 updates coming to sure up the stability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zachmagik
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 9:02 pm PT
Review:  Things I have concluded from reading recent reviews from other users and Gamespot:
  
  -Honestly, you cannot review a game until it is fully playable. Seems about as smart as reviewing 
 a beta.
  
  -Obviously Slant Six did not anticipate the difficulty in stabilizing the servers, but who could 
 have predicted this with 300,000 people (and counting) playing over Playstation Network? 
  
  -Remember Metal Gear Online? Remember how long it took to finally play after the release date? 
 About 2 weeks.
  
  -SOCOM buyers: SOCOM is NOT Call of Duty. Don't expect a high-paced die/respawn type of game. This 
 is SOCOM. Value your life and USE your team.
  
  -Do NOT state in review that Confrontation is lacking single player. It is MEANT to be multiplayer 
 only, it IS multiplayer only. Do not expect a story mode. Think Warhawk.
  
  
  Now, I've experienced the same exact problems as everyone else, but with what I've played of SOCOM 
 Confrontation, I am extremely impressed. I was quite skeptical of Slant Six taking over the reigns 
 of the SOCOM franchise, but after being able to play for about 16 hours, I could not be happier. 
 
  
  -For the many SOCOM fans out there, this game is extremely good. All the aspects you love from 
 past SOCOM games is here but much, much more.
  
  -For those who have NOT played SOCOM games before, this game is a different approach to the military 
 action genre. Initially, this is a difficult game. As you grow accustomed to the TYPE of action 
 SOCOM brings, you will realize to judge games based on your own opinion and not pay attention to 
 the "Professional" reviewers of video games.
  
  SOCOM Confrontation is a success. I could not be happier with the end result and am in no way regretting 
 going against the many reviews that gave this game a poor rating. 
  
  The ONLY reason SOCOM Confrontation is given bad reviews are these reasons:
  
  -A gamer playing 
 SOCOM thinking it is Call of Duty.
  -Impatient people spouting anger for temporary server instability issues.
  -One who has not thoroughly 
 experienced SOCOM Confrontation.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vtothet21
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I was so hyped up for this game but when i got it i was so disappointed.
  I really dont have any knowledge of the previous socom games so i cant really say anything or compare 
 to those games.
  one of the main problems that have been common are the server issues, many say it will be resolved 
 later on but i dont know...
  I really dont want to hate this game and im trying to find good stuff about it. it is more tactical 
 and actually takes some skill to take down your opponent unlike make fps.
  Once you can get into a game its actually decent and enjoyable
  Its hard to rate such a game 
 when problems can still be fixed.
  after a week or two, if the server problems are fixed then people will appreciate this game but 
 if it doesnt then all hope is lost for this game. sigh i hope the morning will come for this game
 
  Right now it is a 6 honestly but if all the server and laggin crap gets solved it will increase 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ryan303
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  After a year long delay, which saw its release date shifted from September 2007 to October 14th 
 2008, SOCOM: Confrontation has finally arrived. This highly anticipated shooter is one of Sony's 
 flagship shooters, and the first SOCOM to grace the PS3 entertainment console. SOCOM has met the 
 community with mixed reviews and impressions, however this is primarily due to server and lock-up 
 issues. SOCOM at its core is fully there in all its glory that was so well loved during the SOCOM 
 2 era, which is arguably the best SOCOM. However, many fans are upset by marred promises from Slant 
 6. I will cover all this and more in my review.
  
  Lets start with the graphics. SOCOM has never been praised for its graphical quality, in fact SOCOM 
 has had some of the worst graphics when compared to other titles. What SOCOM does offer is very 
 well done, and in some instances more life like than in other titles of the same genre. SOCOM's 
 visuals are lightly textured with a nice degree of motion blur while sprinting. What SOCOM lacks 
 in textures it makes up for with activity. At any given moment you can witness sparks jump from 
 power lines, chunks of rock fall from cavern ceilings, and broken chunks of concrete crumble from 
 walls. This spontaneity adds a great graphical atmosphere that previous SOCOM's have lacked. Explosions 
 are fantastic and breaching a wall has never been more rewarding. The dust and ruble that explodes 
 out of a breach wall, car, or bridge is fantastic to see. Overall the graphics are simple, clean, 
 and alive.
  
  Gameplay, its the quintessential component of every SOCOM game. Thankfully SOCOM does not lack 
 in this department whatsoever, in fact gameplay is what makes this title shine. No other game captures 
 both the overwhelming gratification of a successful kill, but also the terribly frustrating deaths. 
 However, the frustrating and agonizing deaths that often come at the end of four or five minutes 
 of running or camping, make a kill all that more rewarding when it happens. SOCOM has some of the 
 most exciting and intense moments found in any game. Nothing is more rewarding than being outnumbered 
 four to one with only two mags left, and then coming back for the victory. These moments are heart 
 pounding and make SOCOM what it is: a great game. There is certainly no lack on fire power either, 
 as each of SOCOMS weapons are varied and interesting. Whether it be the high fire rate of the French 
 FAMAS, the low ammo capacity of the M14, or the all around M4, every gun delivers something special. 
 Many things can be customized as well, from body armor to clan tags everything is accessible and 
 fun to tool around with. The gameplay is only brought down by wonky scopes, a confusing reload 
 system, and distracting night vision. These things aside SOCOM is still there.
  
  If you read any of my reviews you know I do not spend much time on sound. SOCOM's sounds are crisp 
 and more importantly, correct. Guns sound like they should and they all sound different. Bullets 
 wizz by and explosions echo. Surround Sound is accurate as well.
  
  Lastly the overall success and the problems. Here is the laundry list of non gameplay issues. Servers 
 are often offline or unstable. Freezing is a constant concern making every bout of lag heart stopping. 
 Matchmaking, clan ladders, calendars, trophies, and partying are all mysteriously missing even 
 though they are in the manual that comes with the game. Menus can be sluggish. Rank is frustrating. 
 Rooms constantly disconnect players. There is a high demand for ranked rooms but a low supply. 
 Clans are frustrating, Stats don't track, and Games tend to start with over half the players already 
 spectating. Guns Disappear from the hands of players, guns appear to be clipped through forearms, 
 and ranked rooms offer no variation. Clan gear and weapons often disappear, load outs mysteriously 
 change from two grenades to none, and 16v16 rooms are almost unplayable.
  
  So then you may ask, "Ryan303 how can you possibly give a game with so many problems and hollow 
 promises a 9?" Well, its simple really. SOCOM just rocks when it works and despite these folly's. 
 Few games can control a person like SOCOM can. Often referred to in the community as SOcrack, SOCOM 
 is highly addictive to the point of neglecting social responsibilities. The socom forums reverberate 
 with the voices of people skipping class, work, parties, and outings to play SOCOM. One hour always 
 turns into five when playing. One night I began playing at 11pm intending to play only until 12am, 
 only to find that my next glance at the clock revealed 4am in the morning. Time escapes you when 
 you play SOCOM and for good reason: it's downright fun.
  
  In the end it will come down to the person. Can you overlook and tolerate all of these flaws for 
 a game when there are so many others? Many will say no, but for those of us who love, and have 
 loved, SOCOM it is a resounding yes. Many of the flaws are fixable, and most of them will likely 
 be adjusted accordingly. Overall I give SOCOM a nine, because when you scratch all the dirt off, 
 it shines like a diamond. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bcas400e
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:18 pm PT
Review:  I have played all the previous SOCOMs and this is as close to SOCOM 2, the best in the series, 
 yet. Classic feet on the ground action. Yes, there are server issues and some client issues, but 
 I am confident they'll be corrected. It's gotten better in the last few days.
  
  They should have made a training mode, or practice area for new comers. That might be a hindrance 
 but most of the people playing, and there are a bunch, have played SOCOM before and are right at 
 home. I had the controls down right away as they were very much like the PS2 versions.
  
  The new maps are great, well thought out and interesting. The game modes are the same as the previous 
 versions. Supression, demo, control, etc.. The proximity chat is a new thing and very cool. If 
 you are with in earshot of an enemy you hear them talking over your speakers. This has enabled 
 me to get several kills by sneaking up on people discussing their next move! Sweet! 
  
  Once they get the server issues resolved, it's a solid 9 on the score.
  
  I am digging this 
 game and look forward to future updates and content! 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mac22th54
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 22, 2008 12:36 am PT
Review:  I read a review that asked an importent question. Were do i go to get my money back? If it was't 
 for the blueray player i would be asking the same question. Every game i played with excption call 
 of duty 4 has been beond disapointing. I don't understand how the same people how brout as the ps2 
 could have botch the roll out of this game and this system. Odd world syphon filter gran turismo 
 metal gead soild bushido blade what happend to these people how made theys games for the ps2? Did 
 they get fired? Did they quit? Please please please find them and bring them back. YOU NEED THEM. Again 
 they put out a beta thats lame. They pump up hype about the game. An then the game goes THUD!!!!! How 
 is a system that has highdef make a game look worst then the beta. How does'a system with this much 
 power have so much lag an wait time in a game. On my ps2 i played socom everyday for two years. 
 I rented it on the ps3 for one week an i'm DONE NOW. Like i said in the beging if it was't for 
 the blueray i would be asking who do i see about getting my money back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegodfatherIV
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2008 6:07 pm PT
Review:  First off, I'm a fan of the SOCOM series. I've played all of them, love the multiplayer etc and 
 have been anticipating Confrontation to come out on the PS3 for a while. That being said, I'm a 
 little disappointed in the way that this game has turned out...
  
  SOCOM Confrontation is an Online Multiplayer only game, in that it offers no single player mode 
 only online multiplayer obviously. To me, at least, this is one of the game's strongest aspects 
 in that it focuses solely on what SOCOM fans want: Clan Wars, obviously multiplayer etc. BUT, I 
 have to say after days of playing this that the game is, in a way, broken. I cannot keep track 
 of the many times I've been booted from games or how many times my PS3 actually froze during battles. 
 I do understand that it's only the first couple of weeks after the initial launch, but I feel that 
 the game itself was rushed.
  
  That being said, with all the server problems I've faced, I have to say that my experience without 
 such problems has been very good. The gunshot sounds are outstanding, probably the best feature 
 in the game. Clan wars are obviously great, it's great teaming up with your old Clan members from 
 the old SOCOM games again. I give it an 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 10:10 pm PT
Review:  This game became the first game that I bought without seeing a review in ten years only because 
 I needed a headset. The way I look at it was that if the game sucked, then a bought a $60 dollar 
 headset with a crappy game. The head set is as good as the xbox wireless set so that is $60 there. 
 The games itself has a really bad default control setting but I fixed that with an hour of trial 
 and error. I don't know why the severs are bad but whatever it's the first week of release so I'll 
 give them the benefit of the doubt. Once I was able to find a game I actually enjoyed it. Not as 
 much as COD 4 but I had fun over all. Since its a multiplayer game only normally I wouldn't buy 
 it. but since my copy came with a headset it worth it because is really good an I would pay $60 
 for the headset alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SamuRai_JeDi
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Ok, I've been playing Socom since, well, Socom. I'm going to write a review that will sum up the 
 game nicely and far better than some websites have.
  
  The game is obviously the best in the series. Due to server problems and some stuff like that the 
 ratings for the game have dropped. If you're a Socom vet you were unfathomed by this experience 
 and we all know that when the game is performing well (has been and will from now on) it is the 
 best online game to date. 
  
  The gameplay is amazing it just takes time to get used to it. IF you're new to the series you will 
 have a hard time NOT dying, because they have kept the same forumla for the game and many of us, 
 like myself, have learned to shoot and snipe and know the ins and outs of the old levels. 
  
  Like I just said, they kept the same formula with some great additions. Everything to love 
 about Socom has returned. I've never found a game that delivers with the shooting aspect as this 
 game does. Headshots = headshots. you really feel 'talented' when you make a great shot and definitely 
 can tell when someone you're playing against has some skills. If you can withstand the learning 
 curve you will love this game
  
  The new customization options are amazing. The game is extremely tactical and they have focused 
 a lot on clans. I love the game and this is the best online game for the PS3 yet and I know I won't 
 be buying too many games from now on, which is what happened with Socom 2.
  
  Cons:
  
  User-created games don't seem to be ranked, I hope they fix this issue.
  
  Only 4 NEW levels. 
 Yeah the ones from Socom 2 are awesome, but I was hoping for me than just 4 New levels, but I'm 
 sure they are going to add some more shortly.
  
  OH yeah. The mic that comes with the game is unreal. It finally feels like you have to talk in 
 the game to win, which you do. Everyone has a mic and feels like Socom 2 all over again. there 
 hasn't been a ps3 game that has had the online communications like this yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: B-Boy009
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 5:58 am PT
Review:  Its about time the game I have been dreaming about, finally came out. A lot of gamers are upset 
 because, Socom is lagging and freezing up right now pretty often. Just about every game that has 
 came out on the PS3 with online capability have been very choppy within the first two weeks. Once 
 the issues are fixed people will realize that the Socom series, which is often under appreciated 
 is one of the greatest games ever. People on xbox 360 pay to play online and everything runs smooth, 
 People on the PS3 complain because they don't wont to pay, but then they complain about the game 
 and lag. Socom is not Call of Duty, Halo, or Gear of War but now that Socom Confrontation is out 
 I will not by another game until, maybe the past makers of Socom Zipper puts out MAG. The only 
 downfall about Socom Confrontation is their are no vehicles like the other Socom games, but the 
 graphics and destructible environment makes up for the missing action. There is no doubt in my 
 mind I LOVE this game and if asked to write a review on any Socom game I would always give it a 
 10 Damn it!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chaosisover
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Before I start this review I just want to say, I didn't buy the Headset bundle, so I can't say 
 how good it is, but I recommend buying it if you don't already have a headset all ready.
  
  Now for the review. I must say, I was not expecting this game to be so good but it is. This is 
 a multiplayer only game, and has no single player 
  
  Confrontation is a 3rd Person shooter, which is a nice change from your standard 1st Person game. 
 This game has great customization, which COD4 lacks compared to Confrontation. All the maps are 
 great, and you can play this tactical or straight out all attack depending on your map.
  
  This game does have flaws though. The graphics really look like they could be done on the PS2/PSP 
 and compared tto Call of Duty, this game isn't that good.
  
  If you have a PS3, it's worth checking out for only $40.
  
  
  filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pktdavew
Rating: 2
Date: Oct 20, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Launch date +6 days and yet the game still doesn't work right. That's correct - it's been almost 
 a week and just the ability to log into the game feels like a big win for most SOCOM players.
 
  
  It took TWO years to produce a next generation version of SOCOM. Longtime SOCOM fans were expecting 
 something pretty great for a two year project. Instead of something great we got Charlie Brown's 
 Halloween rock. Fitting that it was released so close to trick or treat time.
  
  Here are some details:
  
  1. It took three full days before you could even log into the game 
 without feeling like it was all a roll of the dice. "Will the game work today? Come on lucky seven!"
 
  
  2. The original developer made improvements each year. Gone are many of those improvements. For 
 example - SOCOM 3 told you in which server and game your friends were logged into. And you could 
 "follow" them into the game. The new game just tells you that they are online. Hint - the PS3 tells 
 you that already. Did some marketing research tell Slant Six that nobody cared to join their friends 
 in game?
  
  3. Characters move EXTREMELY slow. SOCOM 3 introduced "encumberance." Meaning that if you load 
 down your player with heavy equipment then you'll spend the entire round walking around like you 
 are pulling the Golden Gate bridge. Slant Six gave you the ability to change your loadout as well 
 but even the lightest options makes you move like a turtle. 
  
  4. Abilty to "sprint" changed into something horrible. The orignal SOCOM gave you the abilty to 
 move your character from standing to a slow move to a walk etc until you were running. All of this 
 was done with one stick. Easy to use and looked great in game. You now need to hold down another 
 button to sprint. Why? The COD series requires players to push down on the stick but not waste 
 another button. Why are we wasting buttons here? It's not like there are extra buttions just laying 
 around in combat games.
  
  5. Online play only. Now I could care less as 99% of all SOCOM fans played the one player game 
 just to learn the maps. But once again - why did it take TWO YEARS to make an online only game? 
 There was not a story line to develop. No program costs to get the AI players to fight back etc. 
 Two years?
  
  6. You have to go past four screens of agreeing to notices etc before you get online. There isn't 
 a one player game or any other option screen to decide what game to start. It's all online. Four 
 screens later you might be able to log into the game. 
  
  7. It takes forever and a day to change your loadout. What was once a quick change out now requires 
 several screens to load and save. So you better have plenty of time before the next round starts. 
 
  
  So with all of that information you might want to hold off for a few patch updates before you spend 
 your time and money. 
  
  Cub fans have been toasting "To the Cubs winning the World Series" for almost a century. SOCOM 
 fans might start to making a toast "SOCOM 2009 - a game worth paying for." The Cubs haven't pulled 
 through - but maybe Sony will. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: njg2005
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:38 pm PT
Review:  I've been a fan of Socom since the first one and i must say that this game gives socom a bad name 
 as Confrontation is a total letdown. The old socoms of the past are fun and fast pased. This game 
 goes for a slower pased, more realistic approach to the game as Slant Six has ruined the socom 
 feel zipper so wonderfully mastered. Also, they made a lot of small changes that do more harm than 
 good i. e. lean with 6axis and no option to change to d-pad, messed up quick weapon swap, weapon 
 select using the wheel thing ripped straight out of Ghost Reacon, etc. So, yes this game gets boring 
 after awhile as it doesn't have that socom FEEL that every true fan of socom knows what i'm talking 
 about. It doesn't feel personal like the past and really all what Slant Six should of done was 
 remake socom: CA with better graphics, made rades a lot smaller, get rid of spawn camping, and jump 
 sniping and everyone would have been happy .
  
  Old socoms: fun, fast pased, and Socrack as made by zipper.
  
  confrontation: is socom and 
 ghost recon combined in a bad way, slow, and not very addicting as made by Slant Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yumozy
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game very excited to see a new socom come out. It wasnt until I got home though that 
 I found out it was online only. Thats ok though. I love to play online but I also like playing 
 the campaigns. However, I wouldnt buy this game if I had it to do all over. It took 2.5 hours to 
 download the 3 updates needed to play. After I got the updates done, I was having problems connecting 
 to the server. I continue to have these problems. I will have had the game 1 week at this point 
 and total playing time is maybe an hour at best. I have gotten frustrated with trying to get in 
 to play and will most likely take it back to EB games and trade it in. Oh yeah, and I have not 
 been able to get the blue tooth to connect yet. I have tried it the 3 different ways thay recommend 
 and none have worked yet... this could be my fault though. I havent had the patience to properly 
 sit down and see if Im doing something wrong. The hour that I have played though was a lot of fun 
 other than the controls being very different from most shooters. I dont believe they are fully 
 customizable. Like I said, if I had it to do again, I would not buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -ShAmRoX-
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  Don't listen to most of these reviews, it is obvious they know nothing about SOCOM. All SOCOMs 
 have launched bad. This isn't the first. The time I have spent on has been awesome, definitely 
 went back to the roots of SOCOM 1. Great hit detection. 
  
  Can you remember a SOCOM that didn't have a problem with servers when launched? I can't. They will 
 fix it, and all the morons who took it back will be crying.
  
  Graphics are great, especially if you are using a HD television. Blue Ray is phenominal! The headset 
 that comes with the game is worth the price of the game alone, so you really can't lose. The way 
 the audio was integrated, to reverb when inside a building, muffle when hiding behind a while, 
 etc etc. 
  
  Definitely the best SOCOM yet. I would assume that in the next week the servers will be cleaned 
 up, stat tracking implemented properly, and we will be anxiously awaiting the new MAP pack. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johncabc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:17 pm PT
Review:  This game is great as a shooter and is a good fit for multiplayer only. Controls take a little 
 getting used to but once learned they will feel pretty natural. Very good graphics and AMAZING 
 sound. The guns and explosions sound very accurate. Slight lag but thats to be expected from a 
 new game. Sixaxis cover system also takes getting used to but ends up being very useful for checking 
 corners and sneaking up on opponents. The only real problem I have with this game is the installation, 
 which was more to complicated than it should have been. However once that process is complete you 
 can have endless hours of fun with all the different game modes in gorgeously rendered levels perfectly 
 suited to the epic gunfights that Socom games are known for. Extended community features really 
 emphasize team work and clans can now coordinate more than ever thanks to SOCOM. com. All this and 
 the confirmation of trophies and DLC in the future make SOCOM confrontation worth the money and 
 a must have for any shooter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Solid_Azeus
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  SOCOM is a franchise that has grown to be respected and loved by many fond gamers with a penchant 
 for shooters. It has basically defined itself as a showcase in the vanguard of all third-person 
 shooters ever to grace gaming history up until present in terms of gameplay, strategy, skill, graphics, 
 multiplayer modes and many other things that integrate into an experience not found on any other 
 game in its genre. SOCOM is a unique experience in its own rights.
  This is a review of SOCOM: Confrontation for the PS3, an exclusoive and highly anticipated title. the 
 review will un fold in sections for easy perusal.
  
  ACCESSORIES: Game may come bundled at $59.99 with a bluetooth headset which offers outstandingly 
 superior performance from clarity of sound via microphone and speakers, to button functionality 
 and ear comfort. it easily stands out as a gagdet of transcending quality and is highly recommended 
 to obtain if only for its sake alone. it is supposedly compatible with mosty bluetooth headset 
 devices such as mobile phones and especially the PS3.
  
  STORY: SOCOM is categorized into missions that are entirely online based and are accomplished alongside 
 team mates or solo. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: IF you have played previous SOCOM games, this will feel just like home as it controls 
 and responds in a similar way. For new comers it isnt really difficult to get the hang of the controls 
 and easily becomes second nature with some practice and play.
  
  GRAPHICS: SOCOM on the next-gen platform features some very flat character models. The maps are 
 great and show some graphical enhancements that are typical next-gen but it is quite common to 
 find bland textures here and there. the character models are simply outdated and appear to be PS2 
 graphics upscaled to hi-def, with poor animations and skin contours as well as armor and general 
 body wear. the gun models are as realistic looking as the character models but feature really good 
 sound effects and feel like real guns.
  
  ONLINE: Since this game is purely online based, what actually defines its success is how well it 
 can hold out online with issues such as lag, loading times and server strain. The bad news is that 
 SOCOM confrontation does quite bad on almost all phases. You will have problems logging on to the 
 server if u can get past the error message that pops up when the game attempts to save ur profile. 
 IF u make it thru to the servers, the game loads up anywhere from slow speed to med speed depending 
 on the speed of your internet connection. You are bound to experience all sorts of lag here and 
 there both on the customization screen and during gameplay. sometimes it is passable and other 
 times it is unforgivable and unbearable. 
  
  CONCLUSION: SOCOM confrontation is generally a bad experience for the present. As expected, patches 
 will be released and modifications made that will correct the issues and enhance the gameplay experience 
 but that time is not now. So if u have $59.99 to spend, spend it atleast for the sake of the bluetooth 
 headset which is outstanding, but if u don't have that money then u wont be missing out on anything 
 either. Lots of great games coming out this holiday, be sure to pick one up. But for PS3 owners, 
 and fans of SOCOM, definatley dont miss out on getting SOCOM; COnfrontation at a later time when 
 all the issues have been fixed.
  More comprehensive review coming up for SOCOM: CONFRONTATION.
  Thanks for reading!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kreemghandour
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 10:12 pm PT
Review:  I really had my doubts about Socom Confrontation. I really did not know what to expect with this 
 next generation release, of the good old multyplayer classic that had revolutionized home console 
 gaming. regarding the fact that Socom 1 and 2 which were the most popular tiles in the series and 
 hard too surpass. Socom Confrontation brings back the same texture of game play, that made you 
 fall in love with the greatest hits titles. Using classic maps like Desert Glory and Cross Roads, 
 which also have been modified and graphically pefected too give that sensual realistic environment 
 around you. Socom Brings back the online experience that made you love Socom since the day it launched 
 on the Playstation 2. Flaws about the title which are few but none serious to hinder any fun experience 
 are. High server traffic regarding in some issues with the network serve causing some issues like 
 ranking and disconnect. This is a issue that has many Socom players upset about, but like any multyplayer 
 game, with high frequency traffic there will be issues. Another minor issue is also there is no 
 single player. Single player would have been good but only if you donot have internet then it is 
 a problem. The game overall is great, I think it lives up to its hype and if you are a doubter 
 just rent the game, try it out then decide. Because its only 39 dollars or 59 dollars for mic bundle. 
 This game will be a landmark for the Playstation Network. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serpens_Solida
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:15 pm PT
Review:  If you check out my time spent in this crap, you'll find it's less than 10 hours. Well, that's 
 exactly the point. I could not login to this stupid servers for a whole day.
  When I had the chance to play, I was disappointed by horrible graphics and stiff character animations. 
 I spent 50% or more of the time just trying to initialize the servers. I want my money back; don't 
 buy this crap.
  I remember Ghost Recon on the Xbox to be really amusing. I could spend all night playing that one. 
 Or if you have a powerful PC, try playing Crysis.
  On the other hand, what's this stupid rule of Gamespot to force you to write 800 characters? Specially 
 when a game is so bad like SOCOM. I just wanted to state that it is mere  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illbill11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This Socom is fun. Has very nice audio. Although the servers need to be upgraded and updated quickly 
 to fix the bugs it is a awesome game. The visuals are not amazing but this is not meant to be graphical. 
 IT also needs more options and icons for your clan. hopefully they will add some nice updates in 
 the future. The install time is not too bad but they could have made it quicker. IT also lacks 
 a good ranking system. The ranking system is kind of a enigma to me. Maybe others were able to 
 figure it out. I sure was not able to. Also I noticed the 60$ version comes with videos that were 
 not available with the 40$ version. And if you upgraded to the 60$ version the game does not carry 
 over your player profile you have to start from scratch. Maybe if I play some more I will find 
 out some more hidden things in the game that would boost my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chevaldefer
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 19, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Wow! There is not much to say about this game, basicaly its all about A BIG LET DOWN. It took me 
 two days before I was able to play it, the menu screen is PUSH START BUTTON and then the game try 
 to connect to server, so 24 hours later I finaly get in thinking their will be a single player 
 mode but NO! Only multiplayer session. So I jump in and ..... ..... it suck big time, controller 
 are bad, vision is bad, fast pace boring shooter but I kept playing it for a few hours, you know. 
 to give a try and BOOM I got disconected and as for now I am not even able to get the freaking 
 game start. SO my final blast will be this: HARDCORE FAN OF SOCOM WILL LOVE IT BUT the rest of 
 us will probably pass by and leave it on the counter. SOCOM SUCK and I am glad I didnt buy this 
 piece of crap! sry for my English. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragon1182
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 6:29 pm PT
Review:  It was a good experience but it could have been much better. Shooters have to get used to the fact 
 that they from now on will be judge by what we know is the best and that is COD4. maybe with time 
 and a few updates SOCOM will be a game worth praising. But they need to get serious about it and 
 quick if they want us to pay attention, in the world of shooters COD4 is GOD. socom has a lot of 
 problems at the start plus some of the loading time is too long. hopefully SOCOM programers fixed 
 this bothersome problem. In all fairness it is a good game worth buying but only cause is good 
 to pass the time when u are trying to take a break from COD4. i hope that the next SOCOM can rival 
 or be better than COD4 that would be great thing for any shooter to do. I also hope they make the 
 next SOCOM a first person shooter than that over the shoulder camera angle they give us. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: I_pWnzz_YoU
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:58 pm PT
Review:  I used to play SOCOM 3 on my PS2 until the wee hours. And I'm glad that Slant Six has kept the 
 same SOCOM feel when they made Confrontation.
  
  Gameplay- I really enjoy the tactical style of gameplay. Teamwork plays a big roll in this game 
 which means I actually have a reason to use the mic. The guns are great and the setup is even better. 
 Choosing from Primary, Secondary and Gear. Then choosing Attachments, Armor and Camo colour.
  
  Graphics- There has been a lot of negativity about the graphics, but I find that the environment 
 detail is stunning. Especially on Crossroads. Although the character models are a little bland.
 
  
  Technical- Right now, this is the biggest killer in the game. The game sometimes lags and freezes 
 which causes you to restart your PS3. The ranking system is messed up, I still don't have a level. 
 But the lobby system and all the full channels make up for it.
  
  Overall- A very fun and addictive game, recommended to any fan of shooters. And don't worry, the 
 game will be patched and fixed in no time.
  
  Gameplay- 10
  Graphics- 8.5
  Technical- 7
  Overall- 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadZone21
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 3:30 pm PT
Review:  Now, I have been reading some reviews, and comments on the game. Let me start off with, I know 
 your frustrations about the servers. You must remember though, they have posted on the official 
 site stating they're correcting the issue, and it will be resolved. 
  
  I have also been reading a lot of lies, or exaggerations if you will. The game took me about 25 
 minutes to get up and running. Yes, I have a speedy connection, but to be quite honest, 25-35 minutes 
 was my wait time, no longer. People are stating it took, hours, even, and that the GAME itself 
 was not fun because of the servers. Come on people, when did you get so shallow? Don't low blow 
 games like that. This game will be a hit, for a long, long time. Just like many of the previous 
 Socom games by zipper inc.
  
  Phew, that's out the way. The game itself has done with the features and mechanics quite well. 
 You begin with customization of your Mercenary and Commando. You can design some neat characters, 
 although many online players choose to make themselves look down right stupid. There is weapon 
 customization as well, like the well-known Call of Duty 4, or MGS: Guns of the patriots online.
 
  
  There is good map variations as well. Night or day, on all maps, and some have a larger version 
 of its original. There are six game modes I believe. I'm a little hazy. I have only played suppression 
 (team death match) so far, but I can only imagine the fun to be had with those as well.
  
  The clan features are outstanding, there is a very competitive side to it. The movement is solid, 
 the weapons sound off nicely, and sniping isn't like Halo. The graphics and art look great; although 
 the textures on the characters look a little "flat" if you will. Also, when you sprint, your vision 
 becomes blurry, and it gives off a good action feel, like Gears Of War. 
  
  Over all I give Socom: Confrontations a 9.0 because the good outweighs the bad, and there is much 
 fun to be had. If you like Socom, if you like third person shooters, or if you like to just have 
 some fun, Socom is the way to go. I hope you'll find out what the game has the to offer for yourself. 
 See you on-line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AHUGECAT
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:32 pm PT
Review:  Call of Duty 4 wipes this game off the ground. $60 for this? The game has no single player (yet 
 is practically a full-priced game anyways) , so you have the online multiplayer component. The problem 
 is that the game modes aren't every fun. Basically, if you get killed you have to wait 10 or so 
 minutes to respawn for the next round. Of course, you can put infinite respawns but the fun is 
 taken out when the kills for each round only go up to 20. There is also no split-screen mode, which 
 makes the value even less.
  
  The servers are major laggy, always breaking down. Half the time you can't even connect. Installing 
 the game is difficult, you have to do like 10 installs (equalling well over 3GB) and then when 
 you do, you get a lot of errors like "save data corrupted." The load times are also atrocious, 
 so why did we have to install again?
  
  The gameplay is alright, it can get fun when you get into it, if you can considering it's so buggy 
 and rounds are short. Not as fun as Call of Duty, but the weapons and customization are nice. The 
 graphics look like a suped up PS2 game and the sound is manageable, but its lack of single player/split-screen, 
 buggy servers, and the lack of a great team deathmatch brings it down. It is not worth $40 at all, 
 though I bought the $60 and now I have to justify that by saying at least it came with a cool headset.
 
  
  Zipper Interactive should've made this game, or Slant Six should've made this a full SOCOM game 
 (SOCOM 4) and had more help. Hopefully Zipper's MAG won't be as buggy or messy as this game.
  
  5.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: equillizer
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 19, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  Since Slant-Six took over the title they tried to follow in the foot steps of Zipper. The graphics 
 compared to metal gear or gears rates at about 8.5 the game play is pretty spot on to all the other 
 socom game series meaning controls and what not. The biggest problem with the game besides all 
 the server issues of course would have to be the lack of a user friendly community section and 
 server set up. If you were a big fan of all the socom series you will not be disapointed with the 
 gameplay itself, it just takes a little getting use  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jhans
Rating: 1
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  Worst game ever, if you can even get it to work properly. Between all of the Sony network patch 
 and the game downloading, an hour later the game is still crap. I thought the whole reason you 
 console guys are so great is because the pc games always require patching. So much for the edge 
 that you guys offer! My next issue is where is this new trend of multiplayer only games. Why in 
 the hell would I pay $40 for an online only game?!!! If you want to make a decent single player 
 game and then have some great multiplayer then I see the point, but to put out a multiplayer only 
 game? Come on Sony where the hell is your head at. You guys are falling way behind. Did you finally 
 decide to just give up and just throw a U. S. Navy Seals game at your customer base. How about making 
 one that combines a little fun for someone who does not necessarily want to go out and play with 
 everybody else. Give me a chance to enjoy it on my own as a single player game and then maybe I 
 will want to play multiplayer. I own each gaming system for having the benefit of being able to 
 enjoy what each has to offer on its own merits, not comparatively to each other. Sony needs to 
 step it up or just get out of the way! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ruggeri1994
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Looks amazing, Sounds amazing. The new levels are awesome and the three old school levels are perfect 
 I will play this game for a long time Socom Confrontation   Call of Duty 4 Modern Warfare. 10 out 
 of 10 n my book no doubt in my mind because it is a brand new game there a little bit bugs here 
 n there but slant 6 n sony are well on their way to fixing them and making it run even more smoothly. 
 Resistance has a lot to live up to if you ask me. The guns are awesome and did i mention the headset 
 it comes with? Headset is easy to set up feels great it is light and works great, a fifty dollar 
 headset and a forty dollar game for sixty bucks.. you can not beat that. Full value with this game 
 all around.. best game ps3 has out to date. I will spend more time on this then Littlebigplanet, 
 resistance, n probably ps3 home. I cant stress it more Tons and Tons of Value with this package 
 a must have for playstation 3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 26, 2009 8:01 pm PT
Review:  At first I gave this game the rating of 1, because it was basically completely unplayable due to 
 the failure of developers/publishers to do proper capacity planning (not enough servers to handle 
 all the players) , multiplied by the fact that the game is still VERY buggy.
  
  Overall impression of the game is that it's still somewhere in a deep beta stage. Here's why:
 
  
  1) The game lobby system is completely idiotic: you don't know how long it is before the game ends, 
 you can't leave the lobby _between_ games (or rounds) , and when you join a lobby - you don't even 
 know if the game is already going or not, because there's absolutely _NO_ indication of the current 
 status.
  
  2) To join a game you _must_ choose a channel first (depending on your geographical location, presumably) , 
 and THEN pick a game from a list of available games. Information about games provided in the screens, 
 again, is very limited, so you don't always know what it is you're joining to. There is no "Quick 
 join" option to quickly join a game based on your specified criteria (like, join any Suppression 
 game with, say, up to 16 players, in US EAST region) . So you'll spend A LOT of time jumping between 
 channels, from game to game, until you find one that's playable.
  
  3) Controls are absolutely horrible. There's no way to throw a grenade, for example, without switching 
 to grenates from your primary weapon, which, when you're in a complicated situation, might cost 
 you your life :) There's no way to quickly switch between scope and "shoot from the hip" modes; 
 instead there's "Zoom", which offers two levels of magnification "from the hip" and last level 
 - the scope, and to switch, say, from the minimal zoom to the scope you need to push the Up arrow 
 twice, which again, under pressure, is kind of difficult and you'll die before you can choose the 
 level you need.
  
  4) If there's an error, or some other exception, the game will bombard you with the same message 
 over and over again, sometimes dozens of times in row. It also seems that sometimes when you push 
 the (X) button on some of those messages, the push registers as "dismiss the message" AND to select 
 an option that was previously selected before the message popped up, so this might be the reason 
 for the message to reappear so many times.
  
  5) Some things just turn off by themselves during the gameplay. I can't quite understand what happens 
 when, but, for example, night vision turns off when you reload and when you run. When you reload 
 - you can turn it back on immediately, while continuing to reload. When you run - you just can't 
 turn it on period, and if you've had it turned on before you started to run - it will be turned 
 off. The same thing with zoom: I get switched from the scope mode to the from-the-hip mode in various 
 situations, usually when I least expect it. I just don't quite grasp the logic behind all this 
 and it looks, quite frankly, like a bug.
  
  On a positive side, the graphics are very nice and, unlike, say, Call of Duty 4, this game is rendered 
 at full 1280x720 resolution, which allows you to actually see what's going on in a distance (in 
 CoD4 you can't really see too much detail at long distance, because the resolution is too low - 
 I believe it's something like 1024x640) .
  
  Also, it was nice to see, for the first time, a game on PS3 with excellent headset support. First 
 of all, the noise cancellation is absolutely fantastic: unlike, say, CoD4, you don't hear the background 
 noise from people's unmuted mics at all. Playing CoD4 with a headset is an absolute nightmare: 
 all that noise, coming from people's mics, including music, people talking in background, cats 
 meowing, babies crying, and feedback from the game itself, is making it nearly impossible to play. 
 None of that is happening in SOCOM.
  
  Another innovative thing about SOCOM is the fact that you can actually hear people _IN GAME_, with 
 the proper sound coming from the direction, where the speaker is located, depending on proximity. 
 If you're close to someone - you can hear them talking _IN THE GAME_ and not from your headset's 
 ear piece! You really have to hear that to understand what I'm talking about. This is absolutely 
 fantastic! I wish Sony adopted this technology for their system-wide headset support, so it's available 
 in all games (include it in their PS3 SDK, since SOCOM is published by Sony) .
  
  Overall, SOCOM is a great online game, but the screwed up lobby system and incredibly high amount 
 of bugs, all multiplied by highly unreliable servers, ruins what could have been an absolutely 
 fantastic multiplayer game. And the headset is excellent. So I will rate this game 6 for now, and 
 promise to change my rating to a higher value, if the issues I mentioned here are addressed.
  
  UPDATE: Well, months after its initial release, Slant6 has finally released a patch - a rather 
 big one: half-a-gigabyte! The main game breakers remain mostly the same: the party system is pretty 
 much broken and unusable, so it's still the same "Region/Room" lobby system, where it takes AGES 
 to find a good game (unless, of course, you already have your buddies set up a game for you that 
 you already know) . So basically, 3 months from the release, the game is still hardly playable. 
 I'm lowering my score to 3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 313rd
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2008 5:22 am PT
Review:  Wow i cant believe this im a socom lover best army game ever thats b4 slant 6 got hold of it, if 
 u gonna make a online game only make sure the online works they (Slant 6) had 2 years to work on 
 this n u give us socom confrontation dont get me wrong the game is on point they put alot of work 
 into it in it shows put that doesnt matter if u cant play half the time, SLANT 6 u are gonna lose 
 alot of die hard socom fans if u keep this up trust me on that. Ok whats good bout the game the 
 graphics r pretty good the environment is very detailed urban wasteland is one of the best maps 
 i have seen on any game COD4, R6LV, BC, etc.... the teamwork u have to use makes u feel like u 
 n the game so if u dont have a headset either get one or get off lol. This socom is more like 2 
 then 3/CA to me it give u that feelin u once had when u first played socom2 then u get booted SLANT 
 6 tighten up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killiasxxx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty fun, you create a guy pick a primary and secondary gun then customize them 
 the way u want. The maps are very fun and if u have a team that comunicates its even more fun. 
 The controls are like any other socom game. Now for the problems: The servers are good but it does 
 lag if u have 32 players in room, its best to get in a room up to 16 players. The mic thing they 
 said its muffled when ppl are around corners and stuff..... um ppl dont talk like that they sound 
 like any other communication nothing special.
  
  The cover system with the sixaxis is anoying I didnt like it, its not that great at all.
  
 
  Im not really sure what it is about the game that isnt that great to me.. I guess its just like 
 anyother game I guess I could say nothin really new.
  
  It reminds me of GRAW which I love but I dont know I think they could have did a little more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: udmatador
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  If you were ever a fan of the socom series this is a game for you. clean graphics, great gameplay, 
 and stellar sound... that being said I really am baffled at the release of this game. There are 
 a myriad of network issues. From drops to flat out server crashes (im assuming they're crashes 
 because slant 6 is nowhere to be found to explain what's happening) . Did they run out of funding 
 when it came time to build servers? 
  
  Then again sony's network has always left something to be said. With many games throughout the 
 history of the playstations they have been shadowed over microsofts rock steady online network 
 and community. My advice right now is to go pick up dead space and give socom another patch before 
 spending the money. 
  
  To Slant 6: I'm confident that you will address this issue with a sense of urgency. The PS3 has 
 been stumbling since it's release and games like this are vital to the success of this console. 
 The current networking issues are further jeopardizing the well being of our beloved Playstation 
 legacy. What once was great is starting to atrophy at the fault of poor planning/spending like 
 this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marcopolo4212
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 10:55 pm PT
Review:  I pre-ordered this game about a month ago and was somewhat excited being the third person shooter 
 fan that I am. This game does not disappoint. The gameplay surpasses many tactical third person 
 shooters on the market and the online play is amazing. The graphics aren't the best by any means 
 but are much better than any PS2 games. The best thing about this game has to be the sounds though. 
 If you have surround sound, the game experience will be about a hundred times better, the gun shots 
 and explosions are probably the best I have ever heard. If you've read my Army of Two review, you'd 
 probably remember that I said the customization was really good. This game has way more customization. It's 
 off the chain!!! There are almost 6 different scopes with different characteristics for each gun 
 and lots of great attachments. You can customize your characters with things like hats, helmets, 
 camo, glasses or goggles and even scars. The only negative thing I can say about this game is the 
 servers.. for now. Let's face it, the servers are crap but hopefully Slant Six will be able to 
 fix this within the next month or so. This game is a must have for any third person shooter fan 
 or any online shooter fan, my only advice would be to wait for an update and trophies
 
  
  
  Overall: Good Graphics, Great Gameplay, Amazing customization but horrible servers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGravy02
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:33 pm PT
Review:  This game literally made me sick. I played the demo a couple times and prayed it was not the end 
 product, but it pretty much was. The game doesn't save my, stats, has beyond terrible graphics, 
 and an awkward community. First off, the game makes you pretty much save 2 gigs of game onto your 
 ps3 ( but you still have to use the disc!) . Believe me, I'm not done by any means. Then after 4 
 HOURS of depleting my hard drive space, it tells me that an error occurred after the update. So 
 I did it again. Now the save data is corrupted and it neglects to tell me what course of action 
 I should take to correct it. Then I finally get to play after 10 hours of saving junk. The graphics 
 are terrible and there's tons of glitches all over every map. SONY, YOU'RE NOT MAKING PS2 GAMES 
 ANYMORE! WHEN PEOPLE PAY $60 FOR A GAME, THEY EXPECT DECENT GRAPHICS. Finding a match is also a 
 pain as well, this game needs to have a matchmaking system like cod and halo, instead of searching 
 through 20 servers trying to find a ranked game with more than 1 person in it. This game really 
 is a shame and a blemish to the franchise. The gameplay is a rip-off of graw 2, with graphics worse 
 than the psp version. SOCOM is a joke and no one deserves the mental torture it provides. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrdmau
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  Everyone that has bad reviews about it talk about how they dont get to play and wait when you die? 
 If your good you wouldnt die in the first 30 secs and wouldnt be waiting 5 mins. What you have to 
 do is Yell GREEN UP :) thats how you do it. You aperantly dont know anything about socom thats 
 how its allways been and thats what people loved about it. No body did respawns back in the day 
 you played like that. So on the other hand if you have never played a socom game, these people 
 are right and you might not like it too much becuase it is alot slower paced then COD4 and some 
 other shooters that our mostly respawns, socom has never been a respawn game its been a slow paced 
 be cautions kind of game but you cant be scared to rush in every now and then. I just love that 
 DG is in but i wish you could do it like S2 and play a certain map and still get ranked. I used 
 to only play DG and alot of other people were like that too. Anyways If you know socom then this 
 one is allmost as good as part 2. For some reason it will never be as fun as 2 and I cant figure 
 out why :-/. 2 was the best online game ever made in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: H3llrazah420
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 18, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  socom confrontation is a good solid game but for being a multiplayer game only they could of setup 
 the lobbies better every multiplayer game should be setup like halo3 and call of duty4. i dont like 
 the idea of all the steps u got to take just to get into a game. the graphics on this game i think 
 are pretty common everything just looks bland. and for being a later release game they had plenty 
 of time to work on it plus they had no campain to work on so i think they could of made the graphics 
 better. for being such a power house of a gaming machine ive seen nothing that stands out and i 
 thought socom would be one of those ps3 games that would make people say wow. overall socom is a 
 fun solid game that u realy need to work as a team to win and all the custom stuff like changing 
 camos head gear and all the custom stuff you can do with with your guns like scope changes grenade 
 launchers and othe attachments are always good plus all the diffrent game modes u can do are good. 
 i would recomend this game for any socom fan or shooter fan it just lacks on a couple things to 
 make one of the best shooters out on the market. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 7:05 am PT
Review:  Socom Confrontation:
  
  Audio:
  The audio in confrontation is quite impressive, with great sound effects and some decent music. 
 The score won't win any awards but it doesn't distract you or sound bad enough to turn off. The 
 sound effects are the star here, especially that of the guns. You can really hear the power of 
 your guns and feel the impact of your bullets. It adds a lot to a shooter when the guns sound as 
 powerful as they should. The environmental ambiance is also good, with some nice effects going 
 on in the background. The included Official PS3 BlueTooth Mic included provides excellent sound 
 quality and capture, and remember to use your mics! SOCOM is a tactical game!
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay is really where this title shines. There are so many options while controlling 
 your fully customizable SEAL (or mercenary) on the battlefield. You have the ability to melee, jump, 
 go prone, aim over the shoulder, use the classic SOCOM view, roll sideways in prone, sprint, taunt, 
 and the list goes on. Because of all these maneuvers at your disposal the controls can be a bit 
 complicated. Yes, there is a learning curve to them but once you get used to the controls you'll 
 be moving like a true SEAL... or Mercenary. It might come as a surprise to long time SOCOM vets 
 but if you're used to always playing as a SEAL, things have changed. You will now switch teams 
 halfway through a game so that everyone plays on both sides of the field and both sides of the 
 conflict. Some other big changes have been made to the series structure. 
  
  Some vets will be put off by these changes and some will love them, either way Confrontation retains 
 enough of the former games in the series to still feel like a SOCOM game. Teamwork is still the 
 fundamental aspect of the game. If you do not work as a team, communicate as a team, and act like 
 a team, you will more often then not fail as a team. Good thing then that in my experience with 
 the game almost everyone had a mic and almost everyone communicated well with each other. This 
 is still a great community for gaming like it always has been in the past. 
  
  The environments are all pretty much fantastically built, partly due to a number of them being 
 from the original games. Don't worry though, the new maps are also great and blend in well with 
 the old. There are a good amount of maps and most have large and small variants. You may also change 
 the time of day which can drastically change the way you play. Each map feels distinct and different 
 from one another and all are fun to play on. 
  
  The gameplay itself is very smooth and just as good as ever. Gone are the vehicles from SOCOM 3 
 and combined assault which many fans were divided about. Personally, I prefer the ground to the 
 jeep any day. It makes the game feel much tighter and more intense. All the classic modes have 
 returned and all are still just as fun as ever. You have your standard deathmatch games, to your 
 hostage games, to your breach games. This is definitely a game for the fans. If you've never liked 
 the previous games, this one probably won't change your mind, but vets should feel right at home.
 
  
  Graphics
  The graphics in confrontation are very good, while not up to par with games like killzone 2 or 
 gears, they have good texturing, although they are not as detailed as disc based games (remember 
 socom is a PSN Downloadable game) , the lighting system is amazing, the sun shining, shadows casted 
 on everything, including off your own SEAL. If i had to draw a comparison to which game is looked 
 like in terms of texturing and lighting, i would say Halo 3.
  
  
  All in all, socom is amazing and anyone should buy it, whether your are new, or a vet, i can almost 
 predict that you will like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Maleficus-lupus
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 17, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  Allright, this is my first socom game so don't expect much of my opinion of it.
  First: The Graphics: They ROCK I mean they are really good, one of the more western urban levels 
 fricking blew my socks off.
  Second: Weapons: Pretty good, nice variety, but they feel clumsy; but that's probably more realistic.
 
  Third: every other thing: The way you find a game sucks, the way the display the match set-up 
 sucks, the incredible load time sucks, the very very very frequent lag when it comes to re-spawning 
 sucks (It happened every time, not once or twice, but every time!) Not only that, but it froze my 
 PS3!
  On the other hand, the mike that comes with it is very good, so I'm keeping that, though it means 
 I'm not going to get a refund.
  This might be a good game in comparison to some of the much older on-line FPS games, but in comparison 
 to COD:4? Not worth my time.
  
  Save your money, buy Bad Company or COD:4 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnybadass666
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  When i played this game on my brothers ps3 for the first time i thought this would be the first 
 good good ps3 exclusive other then mgs. Very shortly i was proved very very wrong. to start the 
 main menu is very clunky. ill push something and the game would decide to react 3 seconds later 
 not to just my original command but to the 30 i do after nothing happens after the first. then 
 i finally get into a game and i spend more time in the lobby and spectating then i get to play. 
 which is my biggest issue. the amount of downtime in this game. just getting into a game is horrid 
 because the load times are worse then gta and when you die your forced to watch the remainder of 
 the round which usually goes on for 3-5 mins. Also the game lobby is where i spend a larger majority 
 of my time playing the game waiting for everyone to ready up so the round starts and listening 
 to the people complaining about lag. which im not having a huge issue with but i hear lots of people 
 are having connections issues which is understandable for a game with so much hype on launch week.
 
  
  I highly doubt ill play this game again and i highly discourage people from buying this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NickAnguiano
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  I am a pretty big XBOX fan. I love my halo online and all that. I only am exposed to Sony stuff 
 because my brother shelled out like $700 for a PS3 when they came out. I played the Beta for SOCOM 
 while I waited for brothers in arms to come out and also Dead Space. Was a lot of fun and not my 
 bro has purchased the game and it's great. For the record, the first 3 SOCOM games online I hated, 
 too much glitching and it was a lot of luck and not a lot of skill.. the guys ran like 5000 miles 
 per hour and up close fights simply came down 2 guys running around eachother like bunnies on crack 
 waiting to see which one would get lucky... was stupid. However, Socom confrontation has really 
 changed it up from the previous games, in my opinion for the better. When playing Confrontation 
 it feels more like I am playing a 3rd person rainbow 6 vegas. You don't actually run very fast 
 in the game. Most movement is slowed down to like cautiously jogging forward with your weapon at 
 the ready. Combat is a lot of fun and relies a lot more on you being good at taking cover, hugging 
 a corner, using team work, and being a good shot. Only thing I do not like about it is that a lot 
 of games I join there is either nobody with a mic or maybe 1 or 2 out of everyone. It was rare 
 for me to find a game with like 6 or 7 people all chatting and actually organizing themselves over 
 voice chat but it's only a minor thing. Most people I played with were not retarded like a lot 
 of idiot little kids that play halo 3, yes as a huge 360 fan I can still admit that that crap has 
 really made halo online crappy. Anyways other than that really the game plays great. Definate buy 
 if your a PS3 owner and I did not know this but apparently the game can be purchased for $40 which 
 is pretty sweet in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenixxark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  There has been a lot of problems with the servers SOCOM needs, and the game has been drastically 
 affected. If you can manage to put that huge factor aside, this is an excellent game. The maps 
 are great, best I've ever played. the characters are fun, lots of customization that has an affect 
 on how much damage you take. The weapons are really good, lots of customization there too. There 
 is certainly no shortage of people to play with online, which is probably why the servers went 
 down, and everyone is fun to play with. I love this game. I was very disappointed when there were 
 problems with it, but for the most past they seem to be ironed out. As time goes on, and another 
 update or two is released I'm sure, it will only get better. Plus the fact that you can get it 
 bundled with a headset is awesome too. Wicked game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve0178
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 17, 2008 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Laggy servers, Problems connecting, and day long instalations are just the start of the problems 
 with this game. When installing, i got "data corrupt" message 2 times. So then I had to reinstall 
 and redownload the update several times afterwards. Overall instalation took about 6 hours. I have 
 had the game freeze several times when loading bc the loading period is over a minute for a map. 
 Other than that, the game doesn't feel like classic socom. Dont get me wrong, its still a decent 
 game, but its not the good old socom that most expect. Slant six did a good job with graphics but 
 the gameplay feels sloppy to me. On the good side, i like the gun customization and the maps. Though 
 i feel like the gun selection is very minimal. I also would like to see some more old maps. It 
 seems like everyone loves all the old maps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MOTORHEAT
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  i play yhis game evry day and i never feel boring. One the things that it makes you to like is the 
 great multiplayer that it have. in the online mode there are many things tou can do. you can play 
 lots of amazings maps with up of 32 players. also there is a place that you can write any problems 
 that you have about the game or speak with friends. In the single mode there are 20 maps with lot 
 of action. however you can play this maps in the again to win medals. CAGPCHB CQC gxfu gw gc7a g987rahfaeh 
 cfw c7afc8aqhruwef ccerc8a c87etc8 cuc g79ayh89h cqa89reh cc f a7fghc8 9 8c c fcug e t7t tccw tcw 
 ghtc w t cwt8w89thwcc t8c9e ct89ewy89tew 8rte yc8yct ct8h8thwe8tc r 8ta c rct8y8yt8yt8 c88 r4ctch 
 yc8cgt6gvb7ct c7vgybf kldfhwefoihriogqh rjithiorthroi hgiejhtiov r ithrittirut. Buy this game you 
 will not loose anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Well.. the game itself (judging by the videos i have seen) the game rocks.. period. But with all 
 of the network, installation problems surely that will bug you even if the game works. It is like 
 "that wasn't supposed to happen, not even more complex developed games like MGS4, COD4, etc had 
 those problems. Also... if it has a single player mode, that would be quite gratifying, in case 
 you're bored of the online gaming. It took 5 minutes to start installing & another 5 minutes to 
 see the progress bar & then some of it's progress... WEIRD.
  
  THEN!!! the tedious thing was just beginning, after installing the game & starting it, it says 
 that there's a corrupted data save file you have to delete it & then you have to download an update 
 file that is around 423MB.. & YOU CAN'T BEGIN!!! That feels like the game developers surely messed 
 the game, WHAT THE HELL they were thinking, they beat konami's MGO issues... period. The most commonly 
 trait since the beta... "NETWORK FAILURE" or "CAN'T LOGON ON SERVERS", Automatic Kicks from a game, 
 LONG LOBBY LOADING TIMES... honestly what they were thinking? That will not add $$$$ to their pockets 
 instead that will pawn them, a self reckless mistake. Don't release a game if it has some issues 
 that needs to be fixed ASAP & when patches are not enough. No one has to be a genius to know that 
 the servers stuff is not easy thing, but please... Those mistakes are not commonly done by professionals... 
 GOD!!!
  
  I love the socom series since the 1st one on ps2, but these things surely annoys the most patient 
 of gamers, it's like paying 50 - 60$ for a nonworking product, what's the main purpose? outrage? 
 I don't know.
  
  However the Socom: confrontation bundle with the wireless headset is not in vain, the headset it's 
 great... CHEAPER, RELIABLE & VERSATILE. Not like the MGS4 headset which sucked & lacked quality.
 
  
  AGAIN.. before many people start bashing or neg. rep. my review, THE GAME IS AWESOME... it's the 
 ISSUES that are more obviously annoying & those facts overwhelm more this game specifically than 
 anything else. Other games has these kind of issues, the copy is damaged. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KC_Chiefs_4Life
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 16, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Although it says I've played a few hours and you all are assuming I have it and have played, I 
 have neither. I was expecting a single player mode or something relevant to what COD 4 had or something 
 in a sense of you could play missions to get a grasp of the game before going online to play that 
 way. When I found out it was "ONLY" for online play, I thought, "you know what forget my reservation 
 on this game, what else is out right now?" I could not be any more disappointed that this is only 
 meant to be played online. Although Im sure the game is great and probably will get a 8.5 or 9 
 from this site. I give it a 4 simply because they half-a**ed this game. What about all the SOCOM 
 fans who dont have online capability and just want to play it for fun? Sorry but unless a future 
 version of the game is coming out with a mode that included single player or mission based modes, 
 Im not buying this game. COD 5 and Resistance 2 will be better anyways im sure, and COD 4 is still 
 a far better game overall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LilVeal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Every socom game that has come out has been the best military game yet. When i first heard that 
 this game wasnt going to have a single player, it really put this game down more, because the single 
 player is thefirst thingthat draws most people 2 this game. Combined assault had 4 player 
 co-op and everyone went crazy over that. They seriously messed up big time on this 1, why? Because 
 when the internet and servers dont work, you have the single player u can still enjoy. The servers 
 already dont work on this game, and most people can not get on and cant play ( cant even customize 
 your character or nothing ) , now we gotta wait until a patch comes out so people canplaythe 
 game. This game is amazing from what i have been able to play of it, everyone that loved the past 
 socom games, this one doesnt let you down still, only on the single player part. And also, online 
 youll find that every1 works together, and the fact that if an enemy is close by, you can hear 
 him talking on his mic to his team on your tv, and the bullets and gun fire sound so much more 
 realistic in this game. In the end this game is really good and i would recommend it to people 
 in about a month, because hopefully by then they come out with the patch, fix up the online, and 
 also add in the trophys. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shlubster
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  SOCOM Confrontation is a new game to me for i have not played any other SOCOM games. As a result 
 i am not biased of the series. When i first got the game and installed it i was very excited to 
 play especially after i hooked up the wireless Bluetooth headset which is btw a very nice mic and 
 is slick and comes with a nice charger. The problem with SOCOM was that after installing the game 
 i had a problem with a corrupt file. After going on google to find a solution i was able to easily 
 fix the problem and continue onto the game.
  
  When i started the game i realized all of the network problems it has, although this is annoying 
 it will be fixed soon and once you get through it pays off. Once you are in the game you can have 
 plenty of fun customizing your Commando ( SEAL ) and your Mercenary ( Terrorist ) . You have many 
 guns and gear to choose from. You also get to choose your armor which will change your mobility 
 and health. After this, once you are into the game you can have alot of fun playing the actual 
 game. Although the graphics arent better than COD4 they are fairly nice and once you get used to 
 them its fine. Also, the maps are very big and full of interesting cover and objects. The gameplay 
 is great and once you get used to the controls you will be having alot of fun rescuing hostages 
 and planting bombs while clearly communicating with your teammates. 
  
  ShLuBsTeR: See you online :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StylesJay
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  once the server is fixed this will be the best game online. hands down. don't forget even though 
 the server is broken right now doesnt mean its going continue like this forever... its only the 
 first week of its release... i can recall socom 3 having some of the same issues as were seeing 
 here with socom confrontation in the first week or so of its release. so with that said dont give 
 up on Slant Six and Sony just yet the server will be up and running soon so just wait!!! however, 
 i do manange to on here and there and i would have liked to see a few more maps from previous socoms 
 like, harvester, fish hook, foxhunt... ect. hopefully we'll see some of those maps come around in 
 the later months.
  also it would have been nice to see the terrorists with a few more weapons. like mabey give the 
 terrorists the m14 as well as the seals. but overall this is by far the best socom to ever release 
 and the best shooter ever released!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Glenn_Q
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 8:10 pm PT
Review:  Having never played a Socom game in the past, I really wasn't to sure what to expect. And so far 
 I'm going to have to say that it has been a fun game. Now that the first day issues are close to 
 being taken care of and the game is actually tolerable to play it has some pretty fun gameplay 
 to offer. The menu screens are pretty terrible compared to those of H3 and COD4, but thats a pretty 
 minor detail in a games overall quality, hence the 9.0, my reason for this game not getting a 10 
 is that for me it didn't really capture the same kind of spark that H3 has with its controls. This 
 game in contrast with H3 feels much more sluggish and not set up on the controller very well. My 
 only other gripe with the game is that my characters head really likes to be in the way, a slightly 
 tilted camera from over the shoulder would have been more appropriate. Edit: after playing more, 
 there is a classic camera that really helps see better in a lot of situations, now that the servers 
 are running pretty well fantastic im changing my score to a ten, this game is crazy addicting and 
 a really intense game to play when doing the rated games with no respawn, the learning curve is 
 just right too, being this is my first Socom game I'm just starting to top some charts, I found 
 COD4 to be way too easy, kids on that game are pretty terrible. Being a diehard Halo fun, i can 
 honestly say that this game really does post a good challenge for being equaly fun, incredibly 
 different gameplay though so its pretty tough to make a solid comparison. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paynehos
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 16, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The game has some nice bugs thats why im giving it a 8. One the servers are overloaded which is 
 good but also bad since at times you cant log in to play and this game is multiplayer only. When 
 you can get into a game its fun some people are good from playing the other socom games and others 
 are not like me. I think the graphics are good the 32 on 32 is good no lag when im in game. The 
 scope in game is bugged where the scope is up higher then where it should be so at times you shoot 
 a wall even though it looks like your a foot over it. Once the server issue is fixed and the scope 
 problem i think this game will be a total classic but as of right now with the bugs i cant recommend 
 it to much even though i love it when ive gotten to play and its totally fun. The reason im giving 
 it an 8 instead of a 7 is the headset that it came with. This headset is great its clear and easy 
 to setup. If you are planning on getting the game get the headset bundle you wont be disappointed 
 with the headset. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlsmikey
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 12:30 pm PT
Review:  This game has the worst setup of any game I have ever bought for the PS3. 
  
  First, you insert the CD, click on the app and it loads the main screen. Thinking all is well it 
 compiles a user profile for you. Next, it tells you that you didn't really "install" the game and 
 have to go back and use the provided installer. OK, so I do this. After 10 minutes of download 
 and install it finishes. I start the game now and it says that I need a system update. OK, another 
 15 minutes go bye and its updated. I relaunch the game and now it says that my user profile is 
 corrupted, presumably because it created it before i installed the game. I have to go back, delete 
 the old one and then reinstall. I do all of this and after a 1.5+ hours get to play the game. Two 
 hours later, the servers go down. 
  
  What a joke. Didn't someone beta test this thing?
  
  Graphics are fairly good. Not great, but good. Realism is very solid and the weapon selections 
 are fairly diverse (not as much as COD though) . Maps are huge. In fact, they are almost too big. 
 I've gotten lost on a number of maps and since you cannot run with the night vision goggles ON, 
 you end up wandering around in the dark half the time. 
  
  I liked the last SOCOM and I'm a fan of the series due to the higher realism, but this game is 
 a total bust. The headset is the only thing worthwhile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phillco_82
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2008 8:33 am PT
Review:  Another classic on the shelf. But don't take my advice. Go check out the ratings yourself. Critics 
 complained before the final version on the game launched that the graphics would be horrible. The 
 graphics look wonderful. Nigh-time game play is the best on HDTV 720p technology. Hopefully Socom5 
 will step up with Full Def at 1080p. One word to describe that... Unbelievable
  
  So far, the only concerns from players are continues server issues, which really are a big issue 
 considering the game can only be played Online only. I think once the updates and server maintenance 
 are applied, the game will easily rate a 10.
  
  Attention all new players of Socom. If your still thinking about purchasing this game.. Get It. 
 If you already have it, let everyone else know what you think and how your experience has been 
 so far as fresh meat newbie Socom Player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mooperman50
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  this game is awesome. Period. adn when people compare this to COD4 it makes me angry when people 
 keep saying that there gonna go play COD because at least that won't have any stability problems. 
 False. When COD4 came out, let me remind you that the wait to get into the games was anywhere from 
 twenty minutes to an hour, if you waited that long. SO dont be so easy to forget the stability 
 problems with that game either. let me remind some people; SOCOM IS A NEW GAME! GIVE IT A FEW DAYS 
 TO ADAPT TO REAL LIFE SITUATIONS!! i mean there was literally already 15 thousand people playing 
 in two days!!! so c'mon people learn some patience, and if you read the socom. com website, the 
 most current post says they will be fixing the problems as we speak. So calm down, and enjoy. the 
 game brings back all the good memories from my socom 2 days, but a lot smoother gameplay, great 
 visuals, and customization that is awesome. So pick up socom confrontation, you wont be dissapointed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZodiaK24
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2008 9:45 am PT
Review:  Only problem i have had so far is updating the game to 1.10. Might have been a connection problem 
 or something, but the game is wicked. I started online and at first i thought it was a little slow, 
 but once you start killing you cant stop ^^. Both online and single player are fun to play. But 
 right now im addicted to online. Bottom line is If your a SOCOM fan, or like a soild 3rd person 
 shooter, get this game, you wont regret it.
  The rating that game spot gives socom is definatly, BS!. Decide for your self but deffinatly dont 
 follow what gamespot is saying. They are basing this all off technical problems with the game.... 
 socom offically said that there will be a patch within the next week or 2 that will fix all the 
 issues and add some more things into the game based on user feedBACK. The game is awesome thoe 
 its, alot of fun so before you blow it off cause gamespot gave it a 6.5 you should play it and 
 see for yourself.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drekks21
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  Pros
  + Great headset if you buy the bundle. 
  + Character customization 
  Cons
  - Controls sluggish
  - Muddy Graphics
  - Camera
  
  Controls are arguably what makes or 
 breaks a game. 
  
  After spending a couple hours with the latest socom and fiddling around with the various options 
 for controls I still couldn't find a 'comfortable' middle ground. When the game is first loaded 
 and you jump into your first game aiming feels constricted and slow. The addition of motion sensing 
 seemed like a very unique concept, finally us console gamers will be able to peek around corners 
 without first having to attach ourselves to a wall. I found the motion controls to be a bit cumbersome 
 and not intuitive. 
  
  I usually favor third person type gaming, because I get a better feel for my surroundings. Although 
 the camera can be manipulated slightly the differences are quite minimal. You can either be directly 
 behind your avatar at a bit of a distance, or on either side at a much closer perspective. During 
 game play it felt as if my character was always in the way. This really took away from my situational 
 awareness drastically. I would often miss someone walking up to me because my guy was blocking 
 my view.
  
  The graphics had to be the second biggest disappointment. Call of duty 4 had amazing graphics and 
 still had solid frame rates. Everything in socom seemed to mush together and characters were difficult 
 to make out. All the textures looked washed out. 
  
  One thing I did enjoy was the character customization. Changing your character to be more specialized 
 for tanking or stealth is a really nice option, but alas this isn't a dress-up simulation. 
  
  I really wanted to like this game. I have played past socoms and enjoyed them all very much. 
 I don't like run and gun games as much as tactical shooters, but the best shooter right now on 
 the market is cod4 and I was hoping that this game would have replace it.
  
  I would strongly recommend that you rent this title first before purchasing this title. For me 
 I got a really nice 60 dollar headset and a title that I hope to hock off on craigs list very soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebohm
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  It requires a 3gb download, a patch from the start, corrupt data in the beginning, the game freezes 
 at least once an hour on everyone and you need to hard reboot, there is a lot of skip type lag 
 while playing, and the servers are down for hours. The game is too much like 3 without the vehicles 
 and not enough like 2 and 1 were. While I am keeping an open mind and would like to play it more, 
 I can't the server is down again so here i am writing this crappy review. They should have delayed 
 the release and got it right then at least they could have included a lot of the things that were 
 left out like following friends, the PMN mines, etc. seems like they wanted to beat COD5 out to 
 the market and gave uf this P. O. S.
  
  Guess i will log on to COD4 right now at least that game is up and has no issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XxMiRaClExX
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Great all around game. Great graphics, gameplay and multiplayer. I have heard some people complaining 
 of lag but I have not experienced any yet. I have played for about 15 hourse now. The customization 
 of the characters is great, not as detailed as the customization in Rainbow Six Vegas games but 
 still very well done. Plays more like socom 1 and 2 rather than 3. All around great game, I reccomend 
 picking it up... especially for 40 bucks! The only flaw that I personally have found with the game 
 is the leaning feature. You have to lean your controller to the left or to the right to peak around 
 corners. This makes it relativly difficult to shoot accuratly while you are leaning. Also, you 
 have to install the game onto your hard drive, which isn't necessarily a bad thing, but if you 
 have just bought the game like me and want to get right into the action it gets a bit annoying 
 waiting for it to install before you can play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 11:34 am PT
Review:  If you have played socom in the past you know that socom 2 is the best one to ever come out. It 
 was the most addicting online game for the ps2 and maybe the best online game out at its time. 
 Now we have socom confrontation. It brings back alot of the classic maps like crossroads and desert 
 glory which were by far the most popular maps... especially crossroads! They have redone them alot 
 but in a good way. I did pre order the game about a month ago and i got the beta. When i first 
 played the beta i did not like the game that much... mainly because of the lag and minor problems.... 
 but now they have fixed the lag and the graphics look a bit better than the beta. Its well worth 
 the price as well only 40 bucks for the game but keep in mind it is a online multiplayer only game 
 but i think thats a good thing because socoms single player wasn't very good in the past anyway. 
 Also you can get the headset with the game for just an extra 20 dollars which is a deal! If you 
 are a past fan of socom i strongly suggest you get this game because its one of the best online 
 games out right now and i think it will only get better as soon as the servers run lag free! Now 
 for the review
  
  Graphics: 8/10-the graphics won't blow you away like mgs4 but they are still pretty good!
  
 
  Gameplay: 10/10 The game is pretty much your simple online squad based shooter and by that i tell 
 you its alot more fun to work together!
  
  Sound: 9/10 Guns sound awesome!
  
  Controls: 9/10 They have tried the six axis movement in this game meaning when you tilt the controller 
 one way your character on the screen will lean out that way around corners to remain in cover... 
 it works surprisingly well and is kind of unique.. but people will just end up running and gunning! 
 They always do.
  
  Overall I give the game a 9.2/10. This game is worth the buy because it has great replay value 
 and the new clan system is very cool and will keep you wrapped up in socom for months to come! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mikevtown
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 10:37 am PT
Review:  After the initial install is taken care of the game plays quite well with the exception of lag 
 every now and boots. Only real big beef i have about this game is that the reload times suck and 
 lobbies are slow. Besides those maps are done very well, accuracy is good, player movement is ok. 
 Wish they would of added prone divivg but all in all a must buy for any serious shooter fan. If 
 you were a fan of the socom series you will love the remakes of DG (Desert Glory) , FF (Frostfire) , 
 and CR (Crossroads) . Slant did a good job remaking them with better graphics and a twist. I cant 
 wait to see if they remake Rats Nest, Bitter Jungle (with no lag) or Abandoned. We'll see with updates 
 and add-ons down the line. Also cant wait to see what they will be doing in regards to having tournaments 
 online. Competition will be out in full force. Anyways Pick up the game its a good buy. 
  
  MVT out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goez3000
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2008 9:57 am PT
Review:  when i first downloaded the beta i had very high hopes, those hopes were crushed after the load 
 times, lag, and nasty graphics. but it seems slant six made enough improvements to make a solid 
 game... first things off the graphics, the graphics pretty much stayed the same but it does look 
 sharper and the graphics dont seem as pixeled.
  
  the load times have been drastically overhauled... in the beta i use to wait 20-30 minutes to get 
 into a game, now i wait less than a minute.
  
  ive played the game for over 10 hrs and i havent had a lag yet.
  
  also the controls dont feel 
 as stiff as they did in the beta.
  
  i would highly recommend this game to anyone that loves online multiplayer. the game really has 
 gone through a big change since the beta... so please dont base your judgement whether to buy this 
 game based upon beta experience because everything has been redone. 
  
  probably the only thing that would give this game a solid 10 is if it had more levels... the game 
 comes with 7 levels... and if the graphics were bumped up a bit... but overall a great game. its 
 worth the money if u get the game with the MIC... the mic works wonderful and is very comfortable. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: abraham212
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 15, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  it's the best shooting 3rd person game on PS3 i highly recommend it for players who like shooting 
 game it has very good battle system and the online gaming is very joy able the team work is awesome. 
 who ever buys this game will know what am i talking about. the head set communication is good it 
 makes you fell like a soldier and keeps in touch with all your team mates. weapons can be unlocked 
 as you rank up and you can add some features to it like a laser scope, grenade launcher..... you 
 can customize your character the way you want. the maps are huge and the multiplayer feel like 
 playing a story mode. the six axis which allows you to lean behind objects so you can be able to 
 get a clear shoot makes the game very realistic. i hope you liked my review for this game and for 
 you to try this online masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aequitas31
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  This is the most advanced installation of socom yet. Slant Six did a great job, I was worried about 
 this game since zipper was not making it. The new over the shoulder view works great, as do all 
 the new features. The graphics look great, and the gameplay is alot of fun. The only drawback is 
 the small number of maps, but that will be getting larger with time. The old socom maps that have 
 been redone on confrontation look fantastic and are great to play. The new clan system is great, 
 it is nice to be able to design a clan badge and uniform. This socom has much better customization 
 than previous installments. If your lookin fo great multiplayer action, or if you like online shooters, 
 then this game is for you. Definitely worth the 40 bucks, or 60 if you want the blue tooth headset. 
 Many people will complain about the server issues, but what the retards dont understand is that 
 those issues will be fixed in a short time period, also, many other games have had similar issues 
 at launch. This is the best online shooter i have played, and i have played all of them. Great 
 job slant six games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faz517xx13
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:48 pm PT
Review:  If you were one of the thousands of people that were addicted to socom 2... then you shall buy 
 this game. Crossroads and Desert Glory are by far the sweetest by far !!!!! Graphics are tremendous 
 and a couple new gameplay additions make this game unbelievable. Shake and Bake baby... w00t !!
 
  
  The bluetooth headset is also amazing. coming with a charger/stand of it's own. Overall this game 
 is very promising and straight up a great addition to the socom series. Well worth the sixty dollars. 
 O yea, and be sure to have a semi- decent connection to the internet. :)
  
  To address some of the nay sayers out there.... Of course there is going to be a bit of lag and 
 load times, but waiting one minute for a map, which will be a good 30 minutes of gameplay, is WELL 
 WORTH IT !!! Also, be a bit ready for those people to cry and $*%&*@ a bout the lag.
  
  So like i said earlier and just like ricky bobby would say..... SHAKE AND BAKE and get the red 
 bulls ready !!!! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
