-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soldier of Fortune: Payback
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/soldieroffortunepayback/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 It looks pretty.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Terrible, frustrating, painful gameplay.
 Falls well below standard set by previous two games.
 Lousy artificial intelligence and gunplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 10 Review (s)
User Score: 5.4, 252 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision Value
Developer: Cauldron Ltd.
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Nov 19, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This shooter is a painful exercise in pattern memorization plus frustrating trial-and-error gameplay. 
 

  If you've ever wondered what happened to the Soldier of Fortune franchise, you're not alone. The 
 first two Soldier of Fortune games were popular shooters in their day, blending fun single-player 
 and multiplayer gameplay with the concept of playing as a mercenary. But after 2002's Soldier of 
 Fortune II: Double Helix, the franchise seemed to fall off the face of the planet. Unfortunately, 
 it should have stayed missing in action because the series has been resurrected with Soldier of 
 Fortune: Payback, a shooter that embraces all the wrong lessons that have been learned over the 
 past decade.  

           Don't let its looks fool you; Soldier of Fortune Payback is one of the most frustrating 
 shooters of the year.      

  At first glance, Payback looks like a very pretty game. The visuals aren't cutting-edge, but there's 
 an attractive quality to them, from the lavish depth-of-field blur effects that kick in whenever 
 you reload your weapon to the lush lighting. You no longer play as John Mullins, the hero of the 
 first two games, but rather as a new mercenary caught up in a very clich and badly told tale of 
 a worldwide terrorist organization that's so clever it brands all of its operatives with the very 
 same tattoo on their necks. It's a wonder they're so difficult to find.  

  However, it all goes downhill quickly because Payback reveals itself to be a relentlessly linear 
 and highly scripted shooter with a lot of flaws. Perhaps the most frustrating of these deals with 
 the fact that the game relies on a checkpoint save system with no ability to quicksave, which means 
 that if you're killed, you have to restart from the last checkpoint. That wouldn't be so much of 
 an issue if those checkpoints were frequent and numerous, but they're not. Thus, much of the game's 
 six to eight hours of gameplay is spent trying and retrying to get through the many sections of 
 the game. Though there's a regenerating health system, you still die all too easily. It's not uncommon 
 to have to replay a section a dozen times or more before you finally beat it.  

  The artificial intelligence is bad and consists mainly of two scripted actions. Once triggered, 
 a bad guy will either run straight at you or stand in the open and shoot at you. There's no sense 
 of dynamic behavior in the way the AI reacts to what you do. The weapon modeling is nonexistent; 
 there's practically zero recoil on any of the weapons, even the light machine guns. On the flip 
 side, even though the weapons all feel incredibly lightweight, they do a ridiculous amount of damage. 
 The first Soldier of Fortune games were "edgy" in that you could practically dismember opponents 
 with gunfire. The same goes for Payback, though it looks like the developers just copied and pasted 
 the same code from the earlier games because the visual effect is almost exactly the same. Arms, 
 legs, and heads all get shot off with absurd regularity while blood gushes everywhere. (The game 
 does boast a low violence option that tones down this carnage.)  

           The single-player is six to eight hours of banging your head against a wall.      

 
  The music is actually pretty catchy, but the rest of the audio is lacking. The sound effects all 
 seem canned, and the voice acting is terrible. The script certainly doesn't help either because 
 the dialogue would be fitting for a straight-to-VHS action movie. The game also ends in a silly 
 cliffhanger that assumes that gamers are going to want more of this action.  

  Additionally, Payback's multiplayer is very generic, with such modes as deathmatch, team deathmatch, 
 and capture the flag. There's a whopping five multiplayer maps total, so there's not a lot of variety 
 there either, which is also disappointing, considering Soldier of Fortune II's popular and fun 
 multiplayer mode.  

  The PC game is slightly less expensive than major titles, but the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 games 
 are full priced. Nevertheless, they're all a terrible value proposition considering the sheer quantity 
 and high quality of shooters this year. Unless you like pain and frustration, there's simply no 
 reason to play Soldier of Fortune: Payback when there are so many other better games on the market. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (9 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: koehn527
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  i finished the whole game and enjoyed most of it but there are some parts that will anoy you. the 
 first thing is the check points are to long. it seems like you get killed kind of easy some times 
 when enemies show up from no where behind you and it dont take many shots to kill you. so you have 
 to start all over and it can very repetitive to try to get to the next point. another thing that 
 bothered me was that you had to use the R2 button to fire and you could not change this in the 
 options menu. i am use to using the R1 buttons on most 
  1st person shooters that i have played. the graphics are good there is alot of blood and gore is 
 this game which looks pretty cool. the sound is good and the guns handle well and there is plenty 
 of guns to choose from. overall it is a fun game to play if you can get past the lack of check 
 points. sometimes it may take you a few times to get past them. i think it is worth the 20.00 i 
 payed for it or worth at least a weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Private-Ryan
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 6, 2009 1:40 am PT
Review:  Soldier of fortune 3 is one of the most difficult and frustrating games I have ever played. They 
 should have left it at SOF 2 or at least spent a little more time and effort into the 3rd game.
 
  
  The good:
  
  The graphics are pretty damn good, everything looks awesome and the environments are pure eye candy. 
 The reload animations are just kick ass and the weapons look wicked.
  
  Huge weapon selection! So many awesome weapons to choose from and you can add different sights 
 and a few other things to make the weapons much better. Such as red dot sight, handgrip (for less 
 recoil) and underslung grenade launchers for that extra kick of carnage and mayhem.
  
  This has got to be one of the most bloodiest fps games I have ever played. The blood and limbs 
 look awesome and is the best aspect about this failed game. Every time you fire upon someone they 
 instantly shred into a gory mess of severed limbs and fountains of blood gush out of the wounds 
 and spill all over the place. The gore is the only thing that was entertaining about this game.
 
  
  The bad:
  
  The AI is just atrocious, they only have 2 tactics. Stand out in the open and fire upon you or 
 run up to you and try to bash the hell out of you with their gun. Its just amazing how stupid they 
 are, the only time they can kill you is with sheer numbers or cheap kills from constantly spawning 
 behind you.
  
  The campaign is way, way too short and the only reason you'll be playing it for at least 8 hours 
 is because its insanely hard. The bosses are way too damn hard and at times a group of enemies 
 run out from no where and a flood of bullets just tear you to pieces instantly.
  
  The checkpoints are too far apart and when you die half way through a level you'll probably be 
 starting right back at the beginning. There is about 2 checkpoints per level and you'll end up 
 dying about 20 times just trying to get up to a checkpoint.
  
  The character you play as is just an **** he is extremely unlikeable and has stupid one liners 
 and a nothing stops me attitude that gets extremely annoying after the first 2 levels.
  
  The ironsights are just mutilating and completely useless. So adding that in was just a complete 
 waste of time seeing as they can't even make proper ironsights.
  
  All the characters and pretty much the whole plot is just full of stereotypes and irritating personalities. 
 I couldn't care less what happened to any of the characters at all.
  
  So after you've smashed the controller in frustration and cursed at the tv screen in anger you 
 might want to think about chucking this game in the trash or burning it because it is not worth 
 playing a second time at all. It might have great graphics, a huge and awesome weapon selection 
 and tons of blood and gore but it is extremely difficult and is not worth the time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorBedlam
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 16, 2008 6:42 am PT
Review:  So... I actually love this game. Sue me.
  
  It's not great. It's not even good. But I love it. It actually lacks flash AND substance. But I 
 love it.
  
  I'm a sucker for a solid shooter, and this is a solid shooter. It's straightforward gunplay and 
 mayhem with manageable weapon selection. I can live with that in a gaming experience.
  
  Now, the graphics aren't up to snuff as far as some new releases are concerned-that's true. But 
 they are enough to get you into the realm that the creators want you to be in. Which is to say 
 that they want you to develop an odd affinity towards your bloodlust.
  
  And speaking of bloodlust, let's talk about the violence in this game. It's not pretty in two ways: 
 video game graphic standards of today & for the human mind to engage.
  
  When I shoot an enemy's leg off, I really don't think that that severed limb is going to spin around 
 on it's heel for two minutes until it magically disappears.
  
  And, not to be morbid, but I enjoy realism. When I kill about 30 angry fellas throughout a level-I 
 want bodies. I want proof of my domination.
  
  And therein lies the largest fault with this game. There's a lack of satisfaction. It's such mundane 
 FPS territory that I feel like I've beaten the same game already. It's got an early 90's feel to 
 it (which isn't an insult) that leaves you wanting for some greater glory. The previous SOF installment, 
 DOUBLE HELIX, granted the player a kind of success & the sort of appropriately bloody engagements 
 a hardcore shooter fan deserves (especially within the multiplayer aspects) .
  
  In conclusion, SOLDIER OF FORTUNE: PAYBACK isn't horrible, but it isn't amazing either. It is what 
 it is. And I enjoy it's no holds barred approach to gameplay-no matter how quickly it may have 
 been thrown together. You want a shooter? You want gore? You got it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: technixps3
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 24, 2008 12:37 am PT
Review:  Overall, Soldier of Fortune: Payback is an okay game. The AI is kind of shotty, the game has few 
 surprises and doesn't really live up to the SOF franchise. What was once a superb adventure of 
 the Shop and the realism behind the game, is now spit out in a barely acceptable rendition with 
 a different storyline. I won't get into many details about how short this game was, a lot more 
 could have gone into this bargain-priced FPS.
  
  Gameplay for the most party is not the best. This game is very structured from beginning to end, 
 and sometimes you may find yourself working your way through a puzzling area than actually enjoying 
 the scenery and the gore that once was. The in-game cinematic cutscenes are a nice touch, but definately 
 do not give this game the fuel it needs to thrive as a top-tier FPS experience.
  
  Difficulty I found was moderate. Controlling your character is good for the most part. You have 
 a limited melee attack. AI rushes you like there's no tomorrow, and when far enough away don't 
 seem to move too much (I ended up killing one of the bosses this way - a cinch!) .
  
  Graphics are pretty good, I'll give it that. The shadows that are cast upon the model and weapons 
 as you move from open area to jungle habitat really represents what games like this SHOULD include. 
 I was expecting a little more bang for my buck out of this one... I reiterate, this game is TOO 
 SHORT!
  
  Sound design was well presented. Weapons sound realistic, and is responsive.
  
  Overall presentation of this game is average. The game lacks all around with the exception 
 of graphics being its stronger point. If only it were LONGER, free of run-of-the-mill AI and structured 
 play.
  
  Multiplayer will keep you immersed for the most part. The good graphics help the game keep it's 
 appeal with a customizable loadout and a fair selection of maps to choose from. Certainly, if you 
 pay full price for this one it just isn't worth that extra cash. Save up for the Battlefield: Bad 
 Company experience instead. I'm out!
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  5 / 10
  
  DIFFICULTY:
  5 / 10
  
  GRAPHICS:
  8 / 10
  
  SOUND:
  7 / 10
  
  PRESENTATION:
  6 / 10
  
  TOTAL:
 
  6.2 / 10
  
  ROUNDED SCORE:
  6 / 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  I was really hyped up for this game, I loved the SoF: 2 DH version alot, so I figured that it would 
 live up to it's hype. 
  
  I got this game because I felt that it was going to send me into that "WOW" factor with all the 
 gore, blood, and bones flying around. Did it? Some, but it wasn't all there.
  
  Graphics: I would say that it's pretty decent, not the best, but it was okay. Almost like a really 
 really sharp Xbox version. 
  
  Sound: I like the sound, it was that bad.
  
  Gameplay: Eh, Run, shoot, duck and hide. Pretty much what all FPS games are all about.
  
  RV: 
 Maybe only because of the blown off leg or head, but that's mainly it.
  
  Online mode: It's not the greatest, but you'll probably won't be playing it for hrs and hrs.
 
  
  Overall: I suggest this game a rent status, I liked it and I'm only keeping it to shown that I 
 bought this game to all my friends. 
  
  Don't get all hyped up because the limb damage, I'm letting you know that it's not all the same 
 like SoF 2 DH. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 2:16 am PT
Review:  I'm not gonna lie, SOF: Payback was NOT THAT HORRIBLE. I've played better.... hell, I've played 
 a LOT better, but I've also played a lot worse too. The 1st SOF set the bar pretty high, and Double 
 Helix failed miserably, and this didn't fare much better.
  
  Mullins isn't even in this one, and that's when I knew the game was ALREADY gonna fail. In any 
 event, I pop it in, and on my 32in LCD, it really doesn't look THAT bad. It didn't play too bad 
 either, and it makes me wonder what some people here are looking at, because the frame rate was 
 fairly steady through most of the game, hitting 60fps at a lot of points even. I'll get this part 
 out of the way too: The voice-acting was god-awful, almost on par with an Uwe Boll flick. Story 
 was something you'd expect out of a bad Windows 95 shooter, and the gore was heavily exaggerated, 
 I've never seen a 9mm blow someone's leg off. There were glitches galore, but they usually involved 
 a severed limb twitching at high speed, which was kinda amusing to look at.
  
  Weapon selection was suprisingly varied, with a few customizations available depending on the weapon. 
 I liked the fact you could pick a set of weapons to start with on each mission, as it gave me a 
 chance to try out every weapon without having to find it or look for it.
  
  Enemy AI was as dumb as a box of rocks. Standing in plain view, either waiting to get shot or running 
 up to you and striking you with the butt of their gun. They were aggressive enough, and your health 
 was rather fragile, a few shots was all it took to start the mission over, and with checkpoint 
 few and far between, it got real frustrating.
  
  I'm gonna recommend this one for people who are more into arcade-style FPS games. Think of it as 
 House of the Dead without the rails, because that's about how it plays. As for the hardcore FPS 
 crowd, well, you already know to avoid it.
  
  In the end, I'm glad I rented it. I finished it in about 2 days time. I honestly think this game 
 would have fared so much better had it been released about a year ago. Stacking it up against the 
 releases of Crysis and COD4 was just asking for it to be crucified among the FPS community, even 
 though it doesn't quite deserve to be, because anything can look like crap when placed next to 
 diamonds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p30netcom
Rating: 1.5
Date: Dec 5, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  When I saw the game's screen shots and trailers , I think, It must be a Very good game. But when 
 I played that, I comprehend it's utter a very infamy Video game.
  
  If u want to play a Modern First-Person Shooter game, You could test other titles like : Call of 
 Duty 4 - Crysis and...
  
  so Activision is not ever favored with this game , and thats buffoon at all !
  
  If you have 
 PS3 or XBOX 360 , you can try Assassin's Creed , Kane & Lynch , Stuntman Ignition and ... instead 
 of wasting your money and time to play this buffoon video game.
  
  That is I want to say at the end : "Don't waste your money and time for this GAME".
  
  Never 
 ... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peralta775
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Soldier of Fortune Payback is the ideal shooter for those that have had a lobotomy and have no 
 idea what a good shooter is. According to the ads, SOF Payback is "Not for the faint of heart" 
 by IGN and I agree. Knowing you paid $60 for this will cause irreversible damage to heart valves 
 and spasms of the myocardium. Recently getting a PS3 off craigslist, I used my e-coupon from blockbuster 
 to get this game. I was prepared for a sub par game, having experienced the previous two games 
 on the Xbox. I was expecting a not so good game, but even with that mentality I was pretty pissed 
 with the outcome of this game.
  
  For those of you have had played the previous two installments of the SOF series, you are well 
 aware of the gore fest this game brings to the table. However, even Cauldren was able to completely 
 screw this up with a lackluster presentation where even SOF II Double Helix shines above it. Practically 
 every bullet wound that pierces pixeletad flesh ends up being a dismemberent. Seriously, when does 
 an M16 rip off limbs as if it was a chain gun?
  
  The graphics are ok, nothing to be amazed at. However considering how this is almost 2008, they 
 should have at least not extensively used the sprites to the point where you feel as if you are 
 playing Shadow Warrior all over again.
  
  In the glitch department, this game is full of them. Even a computer game designers senior thesis 
 has less bugs then this game. Let me paint the picture for you. Ever played a game on PC where 
 you dont meet the minimum requirements, practically making your computer act like it had a blessed 
 third chromosome copy? Well, this game has a frame rate that makes Crysis seem as if it runs at 
 60 fps.
  
  This game isn't even difficult. all you have to do is just point toward the general direction the 
 enemy is at and hold the trigger, the enemy will just run straight toward you. Every cliche enemy 
 action that has been seen in the Rambo movies are present here. Hardly any use of cover and hardly 
 and use of the CPU to outsmart you.
  
  There is one good thing I can say about this game. It is great to throw a grenade and watch body 
 parts fly every where. It's awesome and only worth seeing if anyone ever copies it to youtube.
 
  
  Look, don't waste your time and for your gods sake, don't waste your money. $60 dollars is way 
 overpriced for this game. If you buy it you will know how it feels to pay $30,000 for a Ford Pinto. 
 I feel cheated having used a e-coupon to rent this game. Stay away, its not even worth the bargain 
 bin.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dante9916
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 29, 2007 2:13 pm PT
Review:  Really i only bought this because i needed some change for Call Of Duty 4 and this looked like 
 this could be something from those good old times but NO. Really dont ever buy this game, it really 
 sucks at gameplay, you have to like go crounch and shoot with shotgun to hit enemies that run before 
 you... And i died like 3 times when 2 normal soldiers rushed against me... Graphics kind of look 
 cool, but you cant adjust enything else but resolution.. Really. If this would have come like seven 
 years ago i just have might be cool with this game, but OMG its 2007 year, you got all Crysis, Call 
 of Duty 4 and others that are 192 times better than this game.. its kinda weird seeing enemies bodies 
 tear to part when you shoot them but really when they got no legs and they try to shoot you... 
 Dont Play This Game, if you need something from "good old times" play call of duty 2 or 3... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
