-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic the Hedgehog
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/sonicthehedgehog/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The environments are at least colorful.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Camera frequently gets in the way.
 full of little graphical and animation glitches.
 lengthy and frequent loading times always get in the way.
 town missions are just plain stupid.
 action stages aren't really much better.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb  2, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.2
Critic Score: 4.5, 12 Review (s)
User Score: 5.9, 1,161 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Jan 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Sonic the Hedgehog may share its name with the Genesis original, but this game is even more broken 
 than most of the other recent Sonic games have been. 

  In what might be seen as a move to reset and reinvent the series, the latest game to feature Sonic 
 the Hedgehog is merely called Sonic the Hedgehog. Sega's blue critter has been around since the 
 16-bit days, when his side-scrolling platformers were strong enough to take on Mario, the then-undisputed 
 kingpin of the platforming genre. Sonic's fall from grace has been slow, starting with a promising 
 first stab at 3D with Sonic Adventure, but it's all been downhill since those far-gone days, and 
 games like this new Sonic the Hedgehog are the culprit. With plenty of bad glitches, poor controls, 
 and totally lame gameplay on all fronts, this one's not going to restore any part of the Hedgehog's 
 name to glory.  

          Sonic and the crew are back with a lackluster adventure that isn't worth your time or money. 
     

  While Sonic's name is on the box, you'll actually spend most of your time playing as other characters. 
 The game is broken up into three different stories: one starring Sonic, one starring Shadow, and 
 one starring a new hedgehog called Silver. Each of the stories play differently because of the 
 way each hedgehog controls. Sonic is meant to be the fast-moving one, and he mainly attacks via 
 a homing jump attack that makes most basic fights as simple as timing presses of the A button to 
 bounce from foe to foe. Silver has telekinesis powers that let him pick up large objects and use 
 his mind to fling them at enemies. He's not as fast as Sonic, but he has the ability to float in 
 the air for brief periods of time, letting him cross larger gaps. Shadow the Hedgehog gets his 
 own version of the homing attack, but the big difference is that he can drive around in different 
 armed vehicles. Further watering the game down is a heavy supporting cast, so even when you pick 
 the Sonic episode, you'll still occasionally play as Tails and Knuckles. Other Sonic collaborators, 
 like Amy, Blaze, Rouge, and E-123 Omega also put in guest appearances. While the character variety 
 might initially seem like a good idea, most of them aren't too interesting. Tails moves almost 
 painfully slowly, and his fake ring bombs aren't any fun to use, so when Sonic levels occasionally 
 switch over to him, it's immediately boring. In addition to the single-player levels, you can play 
 the game in a two-player, split-screen tag mode that attempts to force players to cooperate as 
 you progress through the story. In addition, you can go back and play levels you've completed in 
 a battle mode.  

  While you play as many different characters throughout the main game, the same structure applies 
 across the board. The game's action stages are separated by town portions, where you'll be able 
 to take on dopey side missions to help out the locals or figure out puzzles to proceed. Each of 
 these side missions are bookended by two sets of loading screens, where it first loads up the exact 
 same scene, just with different text dialogue, then it loads up the actual mission. After that, 
 it has to load up some ending text and then load up the out-of-mission version of that part of 
 town. Each load time is fairly long, and when they stack up in this way, it almost makes the game 
 feel broken.  

  But since the frequent and lengthy load times don't quite do it, it's up to the action stages to 
 make the game actually feel broken. The camera is the most immediate problem, as it doesn't bother 
 to give you a good view of the action on its own, and your control over it is inverted, with no 
 option to change it. In some cases, the game changes angles at the worst possible time and the 
 controls don't automatically compensate for the new angle. In one Sonic level, you're snowboarding 
 down a mountain and must stay pointed in the right direction. When the camera flips around to give 
 you a new view of the action, you immediately grind to a halt, because you're no longer pushing 
 in the proper direction. This makes some sequences of the game a frustrating exercise in trial 
 and error while you attempt to compensate for this mess. This is but one of several cases where 
 the camera causes often-severe gameplay problems, and it gets frustrating to the point of being 
 nearly unplayable. Since none of the hedgehogs can swim and there's plenty of water and endless, 
 life-ending cliffs nearby, jumping or trying to do a homing attack when you're near a ledge is 
 often scary, since you're rarely able to get a good look at the world around you. Death can also 
 be a bit scary, because you have a limited number of lives and you're kicked all the way out to 
 the main menu when you run out. The game doesn't save automatically, and you can't save in the 
 middle of a mission, so special care must be taken to save immediately before you enter a new area, 
 just to make sure you aren't later forced to repeat lengthy sections of the game.  

          Sonic fans will be disappointed by the game's constant glitches and awful camera.     

 
  Graphically, Sonic the Hedgehog is a glitchy mess that usually looks extremely bland. The town 
 that Sonic spends most of his time saving looks like someone dug up some old Dreamcast-era artwork, 
 brushed it up a little bit, and released it onto current consoles. While his animation for running 
 and jumping usually looks OK, there are plenty of awkward moments, too, like spots in the level 
 that cause the camera to freak out or the way Sonic occasionally launches from platform to platform 
 with his head pointed directly at the ground. There are some better-looking levels in the game, 
 though, and Silver's first level at least starts off with a bang, complete with a nice-looking 
 devastated future city and a big fiery boss fight. Unfortunately, the very next level drops the 
 psychic hedgehog into a nondescript forest setting that doesn't look any better than Sonic's ugly 
 town, and it goes on from there. Compounding the issue is a very sketchy frame rate that slows 
 the entire game down at seemingly random intervals. Considering the main appeal of Sonic is that 
 he's supposed to be able to run fast, all the sluggishness really takes away from the game's already 
 ugly presentation. The characters are voiced in cutscenes with plenty of bad anime enthusiasm, 
 but it's neither good enough to work on its own or bad enough to be funny. The rest of the game's 
 dialogue is delivered through text. The music varies from fast-moving action themes to random ska-influenced 
 tunes. It's passable, but aside from the main screen's title theme, none of it really stands out 
 at all.  

  Only the most blindly reverent Sonic the Hedgehog fan could possibly squeeze any enjoyment out 
 of Sega's latest adventure. This platformer is a mess from top to bottom, and any of the occasional 
 moments that don't feel somehow broken only serve to make the game's other flaws appear that much 
 bigger.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (105 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sonicfreak1
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 29, 2009 5:21 am PT
Review:  people i can, t stress this enough leave little flaws alone the only bad thing was the silver storyline 
 thats it the rest was great like the sonic mode it was very good i am a die hard fan but i think 
 others would greatly enjoy this gem or emerald (sorry bad joke chaos emeralds) of a game i really 
 did like this game honestly but i don, t know why its rated 12+ theres no bad language and the violence 
 is 7+ at the best which is always so don, t mind the reviews bye this game oh and im going to give 
 it 5 sonics kicking marios butt out of 5 oh but i just wanted to ask (feel free to send me message 
 how many people played sonic and the black night and also played sonic and the secret rings im 
 just wondering p. s send a joke if you can maybe something game releated ok so see you next time 
 i want to rant 
::::::

::::::
UserName: giantXcatX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 5:00 pm PT
Review:  The good: nice graphics, decent combat, great music.
  
  The bad: way too hard, terrible voice acting
  
  
  
  
  
  
  So, played this game. And 
 it isn't bad. Yet, everyone else says it is. It is not that bad! It is a good game.
  
  story: sonic rescues the princes, she gets kidnaped, sonic must save her. I would bash this game 
 for the story, but since this game dosen't focus much on story, I'll forgive it.
  
  
  gameply: the gameplay is pretty good, for this, i'll go over the things the reviewers bashed this 
 game for.
  
  Controls: the controls really are not bad, honestly what is bad about the controls.
  
  Glitches: 
 there are glitches but not that many, the first level is glitchy, but the rest are not.
  
  you can also do side missions but those sorta boring
  
  
  this game is very over hated, it 
 is not that bad. now im done with this review 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8akira
Rating: 1
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:46 am PT
Review:  Buried deep underneath the interface, sparse save points, and pathological load times, it looks 
 like there might have been a fun platformer in here. But you'll never find it. This game is just 
 outright offensive. It's one of those rare roughs in the diamond that make you wonder if anybody. 
 Ever. Played this. At Sega. Sega is a major company. I can't connect that fact with this game. 
 I bought and own this game. It is one of my deeper regrets of the last month. I'd take it to a 
 resaler and get my $5 store credit, but that would just lower the price and raise the risk that 
 some other poor sod is going to actually have to sit through the three hours of excruciating pain 
 it took to fully convince me that this game has absolutely no merit.
  
  The opening video is pretty. If you have a good display, and get a copy of the game for free, it 
 might be worth popping the game in to watch that. Immediately after the video finishes, eject the 
 disc, and ask yourself this question for the ages: is Blu-Ray also a better _microwave_ format? 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SSBFan12
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 23, 2009 7:17 pm PT
Review:  In this game you are Sonic the Hedgehog, Shadow the Hedgehog, and the new hedgehog named Silver. 
 You unlocked Shadow and Silver in the game by doing the story. The story is really terrible for 
 all characters and the controls are really terrible and you will get frustrated with them. The 
 game has really nice graphics though. Mostly everyone in the Sonic series is in this game. I think 
 Sega was trying to make this game a new Sonic series but it fell apart. The game has the worse 
 camera ever. The camera will get in your way when you are doing the story. The levels are also 
 not really that good to play either. So this game has alot of bad things in it and only one good 
 thing in the game. I wouldn't give this game anything for it. 
  
  The good of the game is that there are amazing graphics.
  
  The bad of the game is that there 
 are terrible camera views when you play the game. The levels in the game are really terrible and 
 they could get better. The controls in the game are really terrible. The game is really a big disappointment.
 
  
  Overall this game is not the best sonic game to play and I wouldn't get it if I was you. I rate 
 this game 4.0 outta 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12291979
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 7, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  In the early nineties, when Sonic made his first appearance, he was the bomb. The moment he went 
 3-D however, he bombed. This game, with it's impressive next gen graphics and great storyline, 
 had much potential. This potential was killed by nearly impossible controls and a lack of robot 
 ass-kicking action we would expect from a Sonic game. I would love to see an actual 3-D remake 
 if the original Sonic games but for some reason game developers seem to want to keep adding elements 
 that ruins the classic gameplay Sonic fans fell in love with nearly 20 years ago. Word word word 
 just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words yet? Word word word word. Word word 
 word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words yet? Word word word word. Word 
 word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words yet? Word word word word. 
 Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words yet? Word word word 
 word. Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words yet? Word word 
 word word. Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words yet? Word 
 word word word. Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words yet? 
 Word word word word. Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 words 
 yet? Word word word word. Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up to 100 
 words yet? Word word word word. Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am I up 
 to 100 words yet? Word word word word. Word word word just adding words. Word word word word. Am 
 I up to 100 words yet? Word word word word. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malibo1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  As you have probably read, watched and even experienced for yourself Sonic doesn't just have problems, 
 it's almost broken in every way, shape and form.
  It's hard to even begin explaining the monstrosity that has taken form in the name of Sonic the 
 hedgehog but it's sad to see a high profile gaming development corporation like SEGA to let there 
 fiery little blue mascot sink to such a low level.
  The first problem you'll notice is the repetative notion of enjoying multiple viewings of the loading 
 screen, it is actually ridiculous how many times you'll be looking at this screen, "talk to someone, 
 load, they tell you the mission, load, you do the mission, load, get your score, load, finish talking 
 to somone, load, then continue".
  The next problem is incredibly poor framerate issues, wondering around the town became an energy 
 draining choir, as well as dieing in levels do to lagging in mid air.
  The final problem i want to address is the horrible speed run levels, what were SEGA thinkin incorporating 
 these into the game, i think they are almost impossible to do first time, and took me multiple 
 attempts to figure out a pattern and complete.
  Luckely i rented this game for 3 for 7 days, and i seriously suggest you do to if you are desperate 
 to play it, i know SEGA hasnt been on top of the sonic series lately but this is a poor excuse 
 of a game for such a well renowned character. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 18, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  this is my first review so please bear with me.
  
  sonic the hedgehog returns to the ps3 and 360 in HD , he and 2 other hedg-
  ehogs, silver and 
 shadow the hedgehog.
  
  story- *spoiler*the story starts off with eggman wanting princess elises chaos emerald which she 
 always had....... WAIT WHAT THE HELL? if elise always had the emerald how could sonic have turned 
 into super sonic in genesis , sonic adventure, unleashed and many other games. unless sega said 
 this game was a prequel in the beggining there wouldve been a excuse for that but its to late for 
 that. anyway sonic appears before eggman and saves the princess but a minute later is captured 
 in the last minute elise throws the emerald to sonic while eggman is drifting away slowly in the 
 sky .. wait again sonic couldve used a homing attacks on the robots surronding the ship to get the 
 emerald and eggman couldve easily send his robots to get the .. stupidty lol. later sonic gos to 
 wave ocean but he cant beat the ship so he gos into a magic mirror finds elise fight the egg-cerebus 
 and then eggman finds them so tails says to sonic go ahead with elise sonic leaves and later you 
 meet silver. silver voice is annoying he is also very cheap getting u and sending you into the air 
 he gets just as annoying as his voice, but he is easy if u run away like a wuss wait for him to 
 get some items to attack you with and use a homing attck in the air or slide under him with a kickyou 
 can easisly get a S rank lol. later sonic beats silver but silver being a wuss attacks sonic while 
 down and nearly knocks him out after saying a sentence hes says hes gonna kill you (sonic) but 
 amy comes blocks the way and sonics runs away like a wuss having no idea where elise is. well theres 
 a sneak peak of the horrible story.
  F- "big the cat was able to own me" (i will right a quote resembling the grade i give. 2/10
  
 
  gameplay- as sonic you will move fast and will be able to kill enimies with a homing attack his 
 playing field is easy. silver is a hedgehog with special psychic powers his playing field is normal. shadow 
 is like sonic but is better because he can use ownage chaos attacks overall he has a hard playing 
 field. with sonic youll get high speed levels where you dont need to move youre controller or even 
 touch it which is okay overall its pretty good .
  B- "sackboy gives you a thumbs up". 8/10
  
  design- okay some levels are crisp and amazing while others look lifeless and 2 gens old. . 
 the towns are lifeless and design for people are okay main character designs surprisingly are amazing 
 though. places like crisis city will amaze you but places like tropical jungle and radicle train 
 will make you think "where the hell is the life" overall fair design.
  C-/-"mario got owned by a goomba because of you". 6-10
  
  voices acting- lifeless and ones 
 with life just sound plain annoying.
  D-/-"the rock was owned by a 4 year old in WWE smackdown"
  /10
  
  worth it? maby. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Th3_Oblivious
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:47 pm PT
Review:  There are many fanboys who love sonic so much (Me being one of them) and have played the games 
 from the beginning such as the SEGA Genesis. It has been on practically every system created and 
 has progressively gotten better over the years. Personally I loved Sonic Adventure 2 Battle. Then 
 the developers wanted to move it to a next-generation console, but they have disappointed us Sonic 
 fans. The game at its core is good, but the flaws are too immense and keep it from being the best 
 sonic game made. The story is not too interesting, it has glitches, the voices are terrible, and 
 the loading times are very long. You can tell that this game has been rushed. With this game you 
 can't even say that it is the developers' first time working with a next-gen console, because it 
 could have been much better than this. Personally I didn't think it was as awful as most people 
 said it was, but it was disappointing. I think they should make a remake of Sonic Adventure 2 Battle. 
 If they happen to make another Sonic game such as this (not like Sonic Unleashed) , I hope they 
 take their time on it because this game could've potentially been the best Sonic game to date. 
 I wouldn't mind having another Shadow game either for the PS3. To sum it, this game was a letdown, 
 after I finished it I was like "ok, so now what....." instead of like "damn this game was amazing!". 
 Ok I'm finished with my review, hope you enjoyed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilkear
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 17, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  This game had so much potential, and I was very excited to try it myself despite all the bad reviews. 
 Well, lesson learned, pay attention to reviews. I am a sonic fanboy, beings my first system growing 
 up was a genesis, so this review pains me.
  
  The game wouldn't be so bad if it weren't for the constant, and very lengthy loading screens, which 
 get especially annoying if you are trying to beat a town mission that is challenging (for example 
 defeating a whole slew of enemies with no rings) for town missions there are 4 loading screens 
 if you pass or fail it for a snippet of game play that is usually only a few minutes long, and 
 the missions involved are not very fun and often border on tedious.
  
  The graphics are ok, nothing to brag about, but not horrible, though I can't for the life of me 
 figure out why Elise has 2 different skin tones. Silver looks horrilbe, though thats just bad character 
 design rather than bad graphics. The sound is also just ok, with decent voice acting, though it 
 definatly does not meet today's standards.
  
  The gameplay is flawed, with bad physics (of course having a game about a hedgehog that defies 
 all sorts of physics does sort of make thigns hard) though it does have its fun moments. Sonic's 
 Elise and and superspeed levels are not at all fun, and are the more challenging levels. On a positive 
 note, Silvers levels have some fun in them, though I hate the character of silver himself. Something 
 about using telekentic powers to throw things at robots is very satisfying.
  
  This review was going to include a lengthy rant about sega messing with a good thing, but for your 
 sanity and mine, I've removed it. Just trust me when I say this game is really bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 3.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  Let me say I'm not one of those stereotypical sonic haters; I actually enjoyed the past 3D Sonic 
 games and thought they were enjoyable despite their flaws and mediocre stories, and with that in 
 mind I decided to get Sonic the Hedgehog for the PS3.
  While the visuals are nice the game is a completely unfinished, broken, super lame peace of trash 
 garbage of a product!
  
  Story: The city of Soleanna was celebrating a memorial night. 
  Princess Elise of soleanna was choosen to light the flames of soleanna, however moments later Dr 
 Eggman attacked the city in order to claim the "flames of disaster", Sonic made it on time to reduce 
 the damage however Eggman kidnapped Princess Elise and escaped.
  Being entrusted with the chaos emerald, Sonic decided to head out to rescue Elise and stop Dr Eggman 
 once again.
  
  Game design: The story is presented in nice looking cut scenes, the graphics look nice and there 
 is huge content to the game. Characters have been given a more mature look which is quite encouraging 
 for future design.
  The Episode mode lets you play through the story, you will be exploring soleanna city and will 
 have to accomplish a few missions before getting to the action stages (pretty much like in Sonic 
 Adventure 1) .
  After clearing a stage you can replay them in trial mode for higher scores and difficulty.
  While 
 there are missions that will need attending to in order to unlock a stage, there are also tons 
 of other optional missions you can do to kill some time (killing robots, rescuing people and etc)
 
  There is also multi-player split screen mode where you can either race or battle against other 
 players with a character of your choice (Like in Sonic Adventure 2 Battle) .
  
  Game play: As Sonic you will be going through action stages, running, jumping and grinding at high 
 speed. There will be levels where you will be locked into a turbo speed run, where Sonic will go 
 at high speed while you move left or right to dodge obstacles which looks pretty impressive and 
 handles quite descently.
  At certain points in stages you will switch to character specific amigos, Sonic's amigos will be 
 Miles Tails Prower (who can fly around) and Knuckles the Echidna (who does treasure hunting) , specific 
 amigos will appear in specific stages and cannot be selected manually. After completing stages 
 you will be ranked depending on your performance.
  After going through the story you will unlock 2 other main characters.
  You will be able to play 
 as Shadow the hedgehog later on. While he still skates, Shadow won't be going at high speed like 
 Sonic but will travel around various vehicles to get through stages (Like in Shadow the Hedgehog 
 except some vehicles are permanent fixtures and you cannot get off them) he can also use chaos 
 spear and blast to decimate enemies. Shadow's amigos will be Rouge the Bat (for treasure hunting) 
 and E123 Omega (who can deal massive damage) .
  Last up the game introduces a new character named Silver the hedgehog. Unlike Sonic and Shadow, 
 Silver doesn't specialize in high speed, instead he uses telekinetic powers, allowing him to lift 
 multiple objects and allows him to create his own paths in certain spots depending on how much 
 he's got by the meter. 
  Silver can also levitate to places using his telekinetic powers. Silver's amigos will be Blaze 
 the Cat (who runs at high speed) and Amy Rose (who can knock enemies with her hammer) .
  
  Sound: Every character is voiced, however music isn't really great this time around, instead of 
 the usual pop rock mix theme they implemented more tropical and classical themes instead, which 
 sound pretty boring.
  
  Sonic the hedgehog has a fairly lengthy story, plenty of playable characters and tons of content, 
 so is there anything wrong with the game? Well yes there is, pretty much EVERYTHING is wrong with 
 this game.
  Story is poorly written and is just pathetic, sure Sonic story were not exactly Final Fantasy quality 
 but Sonic The Hedgehog takes it down to a whole new level.
  Sonic will basically develop a romantic relationship. with a HUMAN! Sure that's already been done 
 before in Shadow the hedgehog but one would figure they already learned from their mistakes! Sega! 
 This isn't Pokemon! Don't EVER add humans to an animal themed franchise! And don't especially make 
 them have a romantic relationship! Even kids think its stupid.
  Not only that but several script were just completely ridiculous that they were laughable and in 
 some cases disturbing!
  
  This for example was my favorite line:
  Silver: Move aside Amy! 
  Amy: No! 
  Silver: That's the iblis trigger! He's gonna destroy the 
 world! 
  Amy: If I had to choose between the world's destruction and Sonic, then I choose Sonic!!!! 
  
 Me: .. OK.... either Amy is absolutely insane, or that was some sort of Sonic advertising strategy 
 from Sega. either way, its just absolutely wrong..
  
  If by any chance you like the story, the game won't allow you to enjoy it, because of tons of technical 
 problems.
  Lets start with the cut scenes, there are glitches and slow downs in every single cut scene! The 
 voices will often over take the animations and will continue to slow it down as well since they 
 are processed separately, it will slow down to the point where you will hear Sonic say something 
 and in the next minute the animation catches up, In addition, glitches can be seen during action 
 stages as well.
  
  A major flaw in the game is that it has simply way too many loading screens, not only in between 
 menus and cut scenes but also during action stages. 
  This is how the process goes before, during and after every action stage in the game.
  Cut scene, 
 loading screen, cut scene, loading screen, small cut scene, loading screen, explore soleanna city 
 and find someone who needs help, loading screen, the person explains what you have to do, loading 
 screen, play the mission, loading screen, the person thanks you, loading screen, mission complete 
 screen with ranking, loading screen, you head back to soleanna city and get to action stage, loading 
 screen, go through half the stage into next area, loading screen, reached the finish and stage 
 complete screen, loading screen, boss cut scene, loading screen, boss intro, loading screen, boss 
 battle, loading screen, boss defeated and ranking, loading screen, cut scene, loading screen, cut 
 scene, loading screen, finally you head back to soleanna city and will go through the same procedure 
 for the next 9 stages.
  You might be thinking "oh it can't be all that bad" well in that case I must apologize, because 
 I forgot to mention that each loading screen takes HALF A MINUTE to load!
  
  The action stages were ruined with the addition of amigo characters, you can't go through a stage 
 with a single character, at certain points you will be switching to other characters and will have 
 to play as them in order to get back to the main character! 
  For example if you wanted to go full speed with Sonic you will eventually play as Tails and will 
 have to fly around for a bit before you get back to Sonic, and depending on the stages it could 
 take ages before you get back to the main characters.
  Why not keep the characters in separate stages like they did in the past games? Wouldn't have that 
 worked out fine?
  Imagine in Sonic Adventure you wanted to go full speed as Sonic but will switch to Big the Cat 
 for a fishing session? It would just completely ruin the game!
  
  For some unexplainable reason they decided to remove Sonic's spin dash technique for a lame slide 
 kick that cannot be canceled once executed.
  While Sonic still remains more or less a solid character, Shadow and Silver are an absolute joke! 
 
  Shadow will be riding vehicles most of the time instead of skating at full high speed like Sonic! 
 Shadow the Hedgehog is my favorite character and to see him downgraded like this makes me absolute 
 furious! 
  Silver isn't any better either, I knew because he wasn't specialized in high speed his game play 
 would not be fast, but I didn't think it would be THAT slow! Also controls for Silver are an absolute 
 mess! You can't aim objects right! Let alone pick them up! This is especially an issue since telekinesis 
 is Silver's only means of attacking! He can't do homing attacks like Sonic and Shadow!
  
  There are also extra contents that can be purchased for each hedgehog on PSN, boss attack and hard 
 mode for each hedgehog, each sold separately for each hedgehog, each for 2 (that's $4) that 
 is if anybody is rich, bored, or stupid enough to buy them all.
  
  Sonic The Hedgehog is an absolute disgrace! At first I thought critics were being stereotypes by 
 giving Sonic 3D games a bad name, but after playing this game, I think they were too generous! 
 This game not only disgraces Sonic the hedgehog, but disgraces the PS3 as well! Apart from graphics, 
 the game isn't what a PS3 game should be! Loading screens are supposed to be gone or at least reduced 
 to at most 3 seconds per load! Not increase in both amount and loading time! This game is so broken 
 I couldn't get mad! Instead I laughed at its pathetic ness real hard and I still am! It basically 
 set technology back way before the current-gen consoles!
  
  I haven't played a game THIS bad in quite a long time! And I just hope this time Sega bothers to 
 listen to feedbacks, because things are going downhill for Sonic and its going to get worse if 
 they don't turn around and listen.
  
  I decided to give this game a little extra point because its extremely bad quality as well as terrible 
 design and story made me laugh so much!
  A little advice to Sega, next time when you want to sell a game make sure you actually finish it 
 and play it yourself to make sure it works!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shufflezoom
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 29, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  So Sonic makes his first leap into next gen. Is this game a usain bolt? or is it penalized for 
 steroids?
  
  Story 3/10
  Sonic games dont usually nail it storywise but a lot was expected from the story of this game but 
 it dissapointed. The story is a lot like a mario game story. You have to save this princess who later 
 falls in love with Sonic (which drunk genius thought of that?) and after you have to get the chaos 
 emeralds from this evil spirit. The story in this game is an epic fail.
  
  Graphics 6/10
  The graphics are the only thing that i liked in this game. In the first few levels the graphics 
 were not hat good but than they became better. Glitches are the worst things about the graphics, There 
 are just too many.
  
  Gameplay 3.5/10
  The gameplay in this is dissapointing to the maximum. Weird diffuculty way too many enemies slippery 
 controls bad camera and stupid too many long loading screens. The gameplay sucks in this game.
 
  
  Overall
  This game is preety bad with okay graphics dissapointing gameplay and an awful storyline this is 
 puts the sonic name to shame and is not worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertsol
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is a decent game. No doubt about it. Just some of the glitches piss me off. Like in Sonic's 
 story, you can go right through buildings. And the loading times are for very pacient gamers.
  The controls are solid. There is nothing wrong with them at all.
  Graphics are the best I've seen 
 on the ps3 [this is my first ps3 game.] Nothing wrong with them.
  Music is good. Just good. It could of been a lot better. A looooot better. Voice acting is not that 
 good.
  This game also doesn't have a good value eather. You can get this game for $50.00 and it feels like 
 a game worth $30.00.
  It's been a while since I've played this game so I can't tell you what this game is about.
  You 
 people who think this game is crap, your crazy! Don't get me wrong! This game has a few problems, but 
 it's still enjoyable! Rent it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_765
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 29, 2009 8:00 am PT
Review:  This game was so hyped, and being an avid Sonic lover, I was psyched. Unfortunately, this game 
 was a bigger mistake than Shadow The Hedgehog.
  
  The game looks fairly impressive, but all of that plasure is thrown out the window with horrible 
 collision-detection, a camera bent on killing you, and the occasional glitches.
  
  That reminds me. Try a homing attack into solid objects about Sonic's size. I lost count of how 
 many times I perfermed a Homing Attack and he started sliding in a direction and I lost all control 
 ocer him for 3-5 seconds. That's a sign they didn't even test it thoroughly.
  
  The plot is horrendous, also. It seems like since humans have become characters in the games, the 
 Sonic series has fallen through a hole without a grappling hook. 
  
  Of course, it has redeeming values, but not enough to say, "I'm gonna finish this game." Oftentimes, 
 the controls would not co-operate with your input. For example, the Egg Cerberus boss, fought by 
 Sonic, tends to screw you royally. It isn't difficult, but When you're supposed to easily Homing 
 Attack onto the rail, and Sonic flies through the tail altogether, you then proceed to lose your 
 rings due to this glitch. 
  
  The soundtrack wasn't horrible. But if you think I'll say amazing, think again. Easily forgettable 
 tunes, and horrible voice-acting punish an already broken game. Sonic Tean had a nice voicecast 
 until 2005, when original Eggman actor Deem bristow died and they replaced the entire cast with 
 the 4Kids cast, the voice acting went from poor/okay to "Mute the TV now!"
  
  Overall, if you can forgive the game and its many flaws, MAYBE you can find something to like. 
 I would doubt that, though. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lasadora
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 18, 2008 1:41 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is as simply crap as the title sounds. I mean come on sega has no imagination!
 
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog features possibly the worst voice acting, loading screens and has a total lack 
 of speed which sonic should be famous for but no a human could jog faster than sonic sprints on 
 this piece of rubbish its absolutely diabolical.
  
  The good:
  1) Some good running mini levels which are only available to sonic and are incredibly short.
 
  2) A decent ending story and fight.
  
  The bad:
  1) Awful stages that would make the greatest sonic fan faint with disgust.
  2) Loading screens 
 completely destroy the pace of the game if it had any.
  3) Town missions are possibly the worst thing ever to come out on a sonic game.
  4) Awful romance 
 story for the blue hedgehog.
  5) Bringing in Zebrahead was a MISTAKE!
  6) Tails and Silver are painfully slow and just plod through a level when you play them.
  7) 
 Vehicles for Shadow are no fun.
  8) Same level over and over again for each character.
  9) Total lack of fun which made sonic one of the best gaming mascots of its time.
  
  Final 
 say: Do not even consider buying this game for the only pleasure you will get out of it is using 
 it on a barbecue for coal... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperEmpera
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  The game is very underated. First lets start with graphics. Its graphics are quite good and cutscenes 
 look superb as well as gameplay although some graphical glitches has been found. Visually this 
 game is great. Its soundtrack is also excellent, it matches the different levels and quality is 
 good but sometimes in cutscenes when characters talk the animations and voices are sometimes out 
 of time. The storyline is another thing which makes this game good. You get to play as many different 
 characters but at first the story is confusing. Another good feature of this game is that you can 
 play 2 player mode with another person on either tag of battle mode on sevn levels. There isn't 
 much left to say really. you may like this game or maybe not. If yor are an old Sonic fan then 
 you will hate this but if you have never played a Sonic game before you will probably like it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anesthesie
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Recently I cracked this game out again, wondering why I'd shelved the damn thing, almost instantly 
 I remembered why I had.
  
  This game is s**t There's no nicer way to put it. The only thing that is not wrong with this game 
 is that occasionally if you look hard enough you may see a fuzzy, blue apparition of what used 
 to be a great video game icon.
  
  First off, I'd like to note how impossible this game was. I gave it a difficulty rating of "hard" 
 because this game is truly, insufferably exhausting. It's not the challenge that makes this game 
 so hard, it's literally how impossible it is. At any given moment you'll be breezing through a 
 level, feeling good, and soon you come across a horde of idiotic enemies who would pose no threat 
 to you were it not for the fact that your homing attacks you throw at them will often aim themselves 
 and even more often send you spiraling downward into a pool of water that oddly has no reaction 
 whatsoever when you hit it. And then there are levels where you are deprived completely of rings, 
 therefor rendering you most vulnerable and it just so happens that enemies will appear out of thin 
 air and, mostly due to the fault of the camera, shoot you without you even knowing they existed. 
 Not just enemies either, spiked mines and other objects will just appear, literally, in the air 
 and plummet to the ground and on top of you if you happen to be in the way.... Also, there are 
 levels where you are supposed to run at "sonic speed" and chase Eggman's ship, however, this never 
 really happens the way they'd planned because there is no way to slow down and if you happen to 
 accidentally hit a knee-high rock planted in the ground you go floating and tumbling in the same 
 direction and at the same speed as when you were running, only you are considered dead. Three or 
 four seconds and you begin the whole stage again.
  
  The overall level design is abysmal. Every stage is has an inordinate amount of boxes to be broken 
 with, usually, nothing in them and most of the levels are soaring high above a deep chasm or a 
 boring lake. Which doesn't help with the homing attack problem I mentioned earlier....
  The city has to be the worst though. Aside form its flat and innocuous appearance, it is full of 
 people, many of them but really just three or four models (young man, young woman, old man, old 
 woman, child) in different colors. These people are the most grotesque things I have ever laid 
 eyes on in a video game. There are no words to describe how ugly these people are. And it definitely 
 doesn't help that when you are forced to talk to them they all make this guttural grunting noise 
 that sounds like a very painful bout with constipation. I'm not even going to mention the loading 
 screens....
  
  I hate to say such terrible things because I really like Sonic, but this game has to be the most 
 horrible game I've ever purchased for my PS3. I paid about forty dollars for this abomination and 
 really, they should have paid me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: forteblack
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:34 am PT
Review:  It has an interesting story, hard game play, and co - op mode. (As well as a new hedgehog that 
 resembles Trunks from dragon ball Z. [This is a good thing...] )
  
  Because of many sites giving it bad ratings, it's price is nearly $20, maybe less used. I think 
 it is worth it if your getting it for that much. (Interpret this as you will) Don't get me wrong, 
 the camera can be annoying at times, but personally I think it is worth it.
  
  Over all it is a fun, cheap game. And you get to play as Shadow (Love him.) with the option of 
 co - op for all characters. 
  . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 3
Date: Aug 11, 2008 5:11 am PT
Review:  You'd expect Sonic to have fun, racing games. You can also fight baddies. But this game just doesn't 
 make the cut. The graphics aren't that bad, but most of the time your character will be glitched. 
 There is one level where you start off on one of the speed booster things, and you fly off the 
 edge onto a ramp. I flew off the edge, straight down. The camera angle is reeeaaallyyyyy bad. Whenever 
 you need to see something, the camera decides to just go off in it's own world. I ended up running 
 into baddies alot and just died. The gameplay is the exact same thing, every level. You start off 
 fast, slow down, kill some baddies, run, jump, kill more baddies.... You get the idea. You get 
 three options, play Sonic's story, Shadow's story, or Silver's story. All do the EXACT SAME THING! 
 Every story goes through the exact same levels. I've done the White Acropolis stage like, a million 
 times. The missions in the town are really stupid. You have to help a ghost go through rings so 
 he can ' be free '. 
  
  Also, two player is only available as a tag option or a battle. You can't do a single thing for 
 the main game.
  
  All in all, this game had potential, but just didn't make the cut. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juansonic7
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is clearly rushed. 
  Sonic should be nothing more complicated than running fast destroying robots, defeating DR. Eggman 
 and 2acts for each zone + boss 
  But the game is horrible, it has glitches, bad camera, bad controls, bad graphics, and the music 
 is too repetitive.
  Story:
  Sonics story has no sense because it has a relationship with a human.
  Shadows story is good 
 but sometimes it doesnt make any sense.
  Silvers story is passable 
  6/10
  Gameplay:
  Sonics gameplay is the best of all, but unfortunaly thats not saying much because its bad anyway. 
 First of all he doesnt go fast. And when he really goes fast you think that the game is becoming 
 intresting until you find that the controls are so bad and you are going to crash against everything 
 and die. Therere some cool levels though but doesnt change the fact that the gameplay is horrible.
 
  Shadows gameplay is boring. Shadow goes so slow and when u go into a vehicule you still go slow. 
 
  Silvers gameplay goes slow too, but its a bit better than Shadows.
  3.5/10
  Level Design:
  Its bad. They wanted to make some levels chalenging but it just doent work.
 
  6/10
  Cast:
  The cast is sometimes passable and sometimes bad.
  6/10
  Graphics:
  The GC scenes look impresive but the gameplay cutscenes and the animation are not that great.
 
  7.5/10
  Overall:
  Sonic The Hedgehog looks cool but it is not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J_Ford
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog for the PS3 is a very good game, but it could be an awesome game if not for 
 a few minor complaints. It deserves better reviews and scores and there's more good things to say 
 then bad. THIS REVIEW ALSO CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS, SO FOR PEOPLE WHO HAVEN'T PLAYED IT OR BEAT 
 IT YET, READ AT YOUR OWN RISK.
  
  First off, this is by far the fastest Sonic game I've ever played. You really feel the speed, especially 
 when playing with Sonic. The controls are fairly decent. I found it a little hard to control some 
 of the parts of some levels with Sonic where you have to run like on the beach level when you have 
 to chase after Dr. Egg man's ship and on the burning city level when you have to run away from 
 the giant fire tornado. Those are the parts where you go extremely fast. It's a little hard to 
 control but it's not unplayable by any means.
  
  The story is good, time travel is a big part of it. All of the cut-scenes in the game tie the story 
 together, and if you play through Sonic's, Shadow's and Silver's stories you unlock a final chapter.
 
  
  There's a good number of playable characters. Sonic, Shadow, Silver, Blaze, Tails, Knuckles, Amy, 
 Rouge, and Omega. The voice acting for each of them is also done quite well.
  
  The boss battles are pretty fun. If you play Sonic's story you fight Dr. Egg man at the end, play 
 as Shadow and you fight Mephiles and if you play as Silver you fight Iblis.
  
  Once in a while the camera can be a little off, making you die when it's not really your fault, 
 but it doesn't happen all the time. 
  
  The graphics are also really good, the best I've seen in any Sonic game so far.
  
  There's 
 different missions you get to do in between playing through the story mode. They're completely 
 optional but if you do them you earn extra rings to buy upgrades with, and you need a lot of rings 
 for some of the upgrades. The only bad thing about doing these mission is that there's too many 
 loading times in between. The loading times can get pretty annoying but they're usually not longer 
 then 10 seconds.
  
  I haven't been able to try Multi-player because I only have one controller, but I'm sure it's also 
 pretty fun.
  
  The soundtrack is awesome, it has some of the best songs I've ever heard in a Sonic game. His World 
 (Sonic's theme) and Dreams of an Absolution (Silver's theme) are really good songs.
  
  For the most part it's a hard game. Some levels are easier than others but they do take a while 
 to complete. Especially with Silver, it took me 33 minutes to do one of this levels.
  
  It's also a little weird why they decided to "pair up" Sonic and Elise and Silver and Blaze. A 
 hedgehog and a human can't mate, neither can a hedgehog and a cat. It just shouldn't be possible. 
 Sorry for bringing this up but if you've played through the story modes you'll know what I'm talking 
 about. Maybe they weren't implying it like that but you can at least tell they made it seem like 
 those characters like each other. In one cut-scene Amy talks to Elise and you find out that Elise 
 is in love with Sonic. Silver and Blaze aren't as obvious but you find out in the final cut-scene 
 of his story, so yeah.
  
  Another great thing to mention is that this game is now ONLY $19.99. That's such a great deal. 
 
  
  I'm not sure what else to say really. If you're a Sonic fan you'll likely enjoy this game. It's 
 a very under-appreciated game and I was really disappointed with the reviews and scores it got.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PW1NGU
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:55 am PT
Review:  As a long time fan of the Sonic series, I couldn't help but check this game out for myself regardless 
 of all the bagging it has received in various review forums. Boy oh boy I should have listened 
 to you guys. I could not have ejected this poor poor excuse for a game quick enough from my machine. 
 Shame, shame, shame for shame. As a tradition when placing a new game into any console for the 
 first time, I refrain from touching any buttons, making sure to watch any intro movies first. Kinda 
 like the initial sip from a bowl of soup before you tackle the guts of it. Anyhow, after the ooo-ing 
 and aaaa-ing at the intro movie; with a giant grin on my face I finally pressed start. That's where 
 everything pretty much turned to a steaming pile of minke whale crap and my excitement turned to 
 bitter, bitter, frustration. Amidst the graphical glitches, broken camera view points and horrible, 
 horrible voice acting (tails' IQ seems to be dropping as his voice gets dopier with each passing 
 game) , the game just lacked any excitement. My enthusiasm died pretty much at the shoe mission 
 at the very start. Dear lord I can only hope that the next one is better than this waste of a blue-ray 
 disc. It's going to take hours upon hours of GTA4 game play to remove the filthy, filthy after 
 taste.
  
  Please friends avoid this like the plague and spare yourself the suffering of hair pulling and 
 gnashing of the teeth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:42 am PT
Review:  This game is not bad and not good but for fans you maybe dissapointed because of the glitches. 
 This game has good gameplay saga and sonic just need to play attention to the surroundings and 
 a few modifications are needed in the gameplay. 
  
  
  
  iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
 iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii iiiii 
::::::

::::::
UserName: apelletier
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 22, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  I keep every game I buy even if I don't like them. I'm thinking of throwing this one away. I wouldn't 
 even give it to someone I know.
  
  Controls are bad.
  Graphics are bad.
  Gameplay is bad.
  I don't remember anything about the quality of audio... 
  
  You'll spend 
 most of your time looking at a loading screen, just so it can load 5 lines of text like "Here, 
 you now have special shoes". Then loading screen again, because it probably flushed the game data 
 during the process. 
  Activate a "race" through rings, it'll have to reload the whole map you're in just to activate 
 these rings... And when you're done, it'll have to reload the whole map again without the rings 
 afterwards... 
  
  Worst game I've played since Crouching Tiger Hidden Dragon...
  
  Don't buy it even if you see it for sale for 1 dollar...
  If I were you I wouldn't even take 
 it for free, it's a complete waste of time, unless you want to see how bad a game can be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naju890_963
Rating: 4
Date: Jul 16, 2008 1:36 pm PT
Review:  Sega's blue critter has been around since the 16-bit games. Recent Sonic game are very bad .so 
 the list keeps growing till someone cancels them.. Sonic's fall from grace has been slow, starting 
 with a new 3D game that was terrible and so they kepy doing them since this one. The game is broken 
 up into three different stories that involve sonic shadow and a new guy called silver. Each of 
 the stories play differently because of the stupid diffrent controls that make it hard and repetive. 
 The story is very stupid some peaple edit it and believe me they make it better. While you play 
 as many different characters throughout the main game it gets boring. first if you mastered a character 
 you must the othjers which iisvery hard. Playstation Official Magazine UK 4 / 10 
  PSM Magazine 2 / 10 
  PSM3 Magazine UK 47 / 100 
  Games Master UK 57 / 100 
  gamesTM 4 / 
 10 
  VideoGamer 3 / 10 
  Play UK 52 / 100 
  The Onion (A. V. Club) D- 
  
  overalll this is one of the worst games ever created by humans as a great i give it and F 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironlightsaber
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 8, 2008 11:25 am PT
Review:  I wish I could give this game a .5 or even a 0 rating.
  
  I guess it deserves at least a 1 for when the game actually seems like it might be a Sonic game. 
 The rest -- the city PRG style stuff, 99% of most levels and the awful story and characters make 
 this the worst Sonic experience ever.
  
  The city/RPG stuff is so clunky and out of place that getting through them is an incredible pain. 
 The story and characters are so boring that you won't care about them.
  
  The elements for a fun 3D Sonic game are there -- loops, spaces to run fast and baddies to crash 
 into, but the level design is so lame that you just wish that it would end.
  
  They try to be inventive with the story but it seems stale and out of place. The locations and 
 play are repeated from the past so much that it feels like they didn't even try.
  
  It would have been better if there wasn't this game than this awful excuse to make money off the 
 name Sonic.
  
  Save your money and avoid this steaming pile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowlusterx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  SONIC THE HEDGEHOG 
  
  As a hardcore fan of Sonic I naturally enjoyed the sonic title. But I have to admit it had some 
 flaws. One being the glitches. I have noticed that in the first set of PS3 titles pretty much every 
 game had some glitches. But I think that the glitches in this game had the largest effect. But 
 once you know it's coming it becomes an added obstacle. There were also some things that I really 
 enjoyed, one being the super speed areas. They were a large challenge and were really fast. I really 
 like games with extreme speed. And near the end it was so fast it was pretty much impossible to 
 keep up with. I loved and hated this at the same time. The graphics were good and the game play 
 overall was good. A thing that's bothering me with new sonic games is that the story. The story 
 is too much of a factor. It was better when it was mainly about Sonic just trying to stop Eggman 
 and going through a vast adventure to do this. And there have been too many new characters. They 
 should stick to the characters they have up to now and should work with them.
  
  First Look
  When you first see the game it looks good. The trailers (like most) make the game 
 look really good. The cover is also cool. The back for me caused a minor setback since the slogans 
 and description weren't good and the pictures of game play weren't the best. When I read the manual 
 it was also made it look good and you begin thinking that the story looks interesting and you'll 
 like an intense story. When you start playing the cutscene looks so realistic. You get hit by how 
 cool Sonic looks with the cool new graphics. After that happens and the first cutscene is over 
 you see that the graphics won't be as good as you thought. Sonic still looks good but other human 
 characters have degradation (specifically Elise) in quality. Sonic and his pals are still really 
 good quality and so are the robots and enemies you fight. When you actually play the first mission 
 looks very simple but it seems like the controls are nice. The store also looks pretty good. When 
 you play the first level you like the controls and will pass over the glitches not getting too 
 frustrated. The amigo thing will also be something you'll probably like. The mach speed area will 
 get you frustrated, but in a good way. I loved it when I first got it.
  RATING: 8/10
  
  Graphics
  When you first see it they are really good, and in a lot of the cutscenes they are, 
 but in some they are very degraded, especially humans. I am not surprised about this and this has 
 been the case in most games. But I was still hoping. Sonic and his nonhuman friends look great 
 in most cutscenes and in gameplay. The vehicles and enemies are also top notch. Elise was a major 
 eyesore in a lot of the cutscenes and the graphics of her were terrible. The stage graphics and 
 the world was nice. The graphics overall were truly nex-gen. Some minor setbacks aside, I think 
 that the graphics were a major positive point.
  RATING: 9/10
  
  Story
  The story was pretty good, and if it was a different game it would be perfect. But it was Sonic. 
 A really dark and shadowy story doesn't fit with Sonic. I don't think that Shadow the Hedgehog 
 had this dark of a story. Make it less intense. If you make it less intense then the story can 
 guide you to lots of levels that don't really make sense but are still fun. The story was too real 
 and Sonic isn't supposed to be. Another setback was that the story was almost a copy off of the 
 original Sonic Adventure. But it was a lot darker. And there were a few extra things like Elise 
 that ruined it. The story didn't work for me at all.
  RATING: 6/10
  
  Gameplay
  For the main part it was fun. You Passover the glitches at first but when they start happening 
 more in harder situations you begin getting really frustrated. And there are a lot of them. A good 
 thing about that is that once you know they are there you can easily pass over them. Another thing 
 that wasn't nice was the store feature. You get all the power-ups from the store and there isn't 
 any challenge in getting them. Just play missions until you have enough rings. But using the power-ups 
 was fun. And the mach speed areas were very enjoyable in the beginning but get impossible in the 
 end. What sucked about them was that when they began getting long there wasn't any midpoints. I 
 would have loved if they were longer, but also had points to where you returned if you lost. Playing 
 with vehicles and shadow was fun as well but I think that they were slow and weren't really special 
 power-ups, they were more like requirements. And now that I've played with just vehicles, I say 
 bring the guns back. They made the game more fun. The chaos form was really cool as well, but lasted 
 for only a short time and the bar took too long to load. Silver was a nightmare. The score is low 
 mainly because of him. He's slow. Flying with him is really impossible because of the camera. His 
 fighting sucks and having enemies to where you fly too isn't a good idea because you can't fight 
 them and can be killed before your bar loads. The large open areas of Soleana City are fun to run 
 around in the Sonic and Shadow, but with Silver they are a daunting task. The amigos on the most 
 part were fun to play with. Their levels were short so you didn't really worry a lot about speed 
 or power and could speedily get through them. Overall it was half good, half bad.
  RATING: 6/10
  
  Multi-Player
  Multiplayer was fun. With Sonic it always has been. But this 
 had major setbacks. The characters varied too much and what was easy with one character was pretty 
 much impossible with another. Silver could fly over some parts and that would be really easy, but 
 his combat was terrible. And you can't play with Amigos. There were a lot of characters to play 
 with in the previous games, but in this there were only 3. A larger variety would greatly be appreciated. 
 It was passable.
  RATING: 7/10
  
  Mini-Games/Missions
  I was really hoping for the return of the chao gardens. And maybe online play with them. Nothing 
 of the sort happened. And the search for the silver medals wasn't as good as any emblem search 
 in the previous games since there was no point. The actual missions were fun but overall they weren't 
 hard to do or find. There was no riddle like element in them. You were basically doing jobs for 
 cash. This was good, but not really good enough.
  RATING: 8/10
  
  Replay Value
  The major problem with this was that you can't play it again. You need another PS3 account to play 
 it again. I decided to do it once. But in the end I had to switch between accounts too much so 
 I deleted it. But I did replay the missions and stages, which were where the game actually got 
 fun. You know exactly what you have to do and try to do it as fast as possible. You can see who 
 can do it faster. Who can get more rings? It's more of a compete to see who's he best for me then 
 just kill some time after you beat the game. I liked replaying it a lot, but only if others played 
 it as well. When they stopped there wasn't really anyone to beat or any point to replaying it so 
 I stopped.
  RATING: 7/10
  
  Other Strong/Weak Points
  By downloading the harder version of the levels off of the internet you can play a more challenging 
 version of the game. But a lot of the problems were still in it. Another thing that was highly 
 expected was that you'd be able to turn to super Sonic at any time you got 7 chaos emeralds and 
 50 rings. Nothing of the sort happened. We, the whole Sonic game community, expected a lot from 
 this game we got almost nothing.
  RATING: 4/10
  
  First Look: 8/10
  Story: 9/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Multi-player: 6/10
  Mini-Games/Missions: 8/10
  Replay Value: 7/10
  Other 
 Strong/Weak Points: 4/10
  Average: 7/10
  Final Score: 7.5/10
  
  Who Should Buy This
  Anyone that really likes Sonic should get this game. For anyone I think that it was just above 
 the passing mark. If you really like Sonic and speed you should get this game. You probably won't 
 finish the game completely (All missions, medals, etc.) unless you're a Sonic Fanboy, but you should 
 be able to get about 20-30 hours out of the game if you're a Sonic fan. If you plan to get introduced 
 to Sonic with this game then don't buy it. You'll end up hating Sonic because of one of his worst 
 games. If you're deciding between this and another new game of a series you like, then you'll probably 
 end up better off with the other game.
  
  I think that this game was a good starting point for the entrance of Sonic into Nex-Gen. When you 
 try to do something with a new tool and use it to the best it can be used for, you'll probably 
 mess up at least the first time. SEGA should continue the game and not completely start over. This 
 is a good base. I think it would have been a great game if they had experience with New-Gen consoles 
 and had a little more preparation and planning to it. A few extra beta-testers would also have 
 helped the game a lot. They should work on the next game for at least 1 years before they release 
 it to beta-testers and should let at least 100 people test it. They should read reviews and make 
 the next game according to the things that pop up in them a lot. Then they should have a successful 
 Sonic game that is truly nex-gen in every aspect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 29, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  Long load times and bad voice acting are the only two minor problems I see in this game.
  
  I'll start off with Sonic's levels. These are the best, if you think he runs too slow, well first 
 of all you can buy the blue gem to make him run faster. Second of all intense mach speed stages 
 are the best. Third of all, there are constant dash pads that will keep his speed up in the non-mach 
 speed parts of the levels. Sonic's speed levels remind me of the good old days playing Sonic Adventure 
 on the Dreamcast.
  
  Shadow's levels aren't bad. Using the vehicles isn't something that should be there, but it can 
 sometimes be fun. But why should Shadow be driving a vehicle when he can run as fast as Sonic? 
 I will ignore the vehicles when I can because it's always fun to be dashing through the levels 
 on foot. If I wanna drive a car I'll play GTAIV.
  
  Silvers levels are fun in their own way even though they're not fast at all. His levels play like 
 a normal platformer like Mario.
  
  Overall Sonic 06 was great. I was hooked on it the first night I got it and finished Sonic's storying 
 playing 6 hours straight. But I'm not sure how long I've spent playing the game to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GotuXTP
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 25, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Well where to start... i am probably really late reviewing this game but i will anyways. I picked 
 this game in the bargain bin for 18.95 because i wanted to see why this game did so terribly.
 
  
  First off id like to say im a huge sonic fanboy so im rating this on a sonic fan boy prospective 
 and the score i give is verryy very generous to this game.
  
  Story: The story isn't that good at all. In fact sonic stories were never that great. But since 
 i love sonic i always enjoyed them. This story however sucked the big guns. The whole Human hedgehog 
 relationship looks absolutely ridiculous cause his hands are bigger than her face. The story doesn't 
 do much to emphasize things and is very simplistic and it does a terrible job in wrapping the whole 
 game off. Overall the story isn't worth getting into.
  
  CG's: The CG's are nice. They arent amazing but they are nice to look at with absolutely no loading 
 time when watching them. Sadly there are only a few of them : (
  
  Town missions: unimaginative. boring. ugly character models. ugly buildings. glitchy town with 
 walls that you can get stuck to. Terrible. and when supporting characters follow you.. well there 
 always jumping for no reason and often dying .. for no reason. VERY annoying
  
  Load times: you would think a game with the fastest hedgehog would have fast load times. NOPE. 
 These are 30-40 second load times people. Of course you get used to it after awhile but it really 
 kills any fun you were having. Example say your doing a town mission... talk to the guy say yes... LOAD.... he 
 says something small.. LOAD again... you finish LOAAADDDDDD.... everytime ur in town it loads.. every 
 segment of any stage it has to load. this really brings down the game by like 2.0 Camera: uncooporative. 
 glitchy. You will find yourself dying for no reason because you don't kno where the heck your going 
 and falling to your doom. It shakes alot to if your going against the cameras will. and the cameras 
 will sucks. Soo you have to suck it up to enjoy it.
  
  Boss battles: not very interesting or imaginative. We've all seen these fights before. The ending 
 boss battle with the super hedgehogs is a total let down cause the boss is a pansy and its like 
 impossible to die. When fighting silver as a boss it is super annoying cause his psychokinesis 
 is most likely going to kill you a few times. You hit him he gets damaged then he stuns u.. throws 
 u into a building.. u lose rings.. and he comes right away and stuns u again before u can get rings.. and 
 there .. u die .. hes cheap.
  
  Sonic gameplay: Well the blue hedgehog is back and he is as broken as ever. I realize over the 
 years how uterrly useless the sonic spin has become his once prized move. The only reason you would 
 use it is travel faster in the town. His new upgradeable moves suck ass and they are all flawed. 
 Such as the bouncing one. If you bounce you cannot move as you bounce, you bounce in one spot unlike 
 the sonic adventure games. The mach speed events take memorization and if you gameover during these 
 spots then you have to redo the whole freaking stage. You WILL find yourself dying alot for no 
 reason at all. Sonic is so stupid he wont stop running if hes gonna go in water or through walls 
 so he always dies. However it is still fun watching our hedgehog run and kick ass throughout the 
 stage... that is if you don't randomly die due to the crappy camera . Elise and Sonic missions are 
 boring and he isnt fun cause hes carying the fat elise. Shadow gameplay: Shadow feels slower than 
 sonic even though they SHOULD be the same speed. In fact hes slower than Omega which is **** cause 
 hes the ultimate life form. Shadows Chaos Spear which stuns people is cool to use but its not very 
 useful. His Chaos boosts are fun to use and his homing attack is also fun to use. His downfall 
 comes in the vehicles that you are forced to use. WIth no aiming system and broken controls for 
 when your on the vehicles. Your better off running then using the vehicles unless you HAVE to use 
 them. Silver's gameplay: Fun at first then boring. Silver doesnt have speed which sucks when your 
 going through the town. But his psychokinesis and picking up boxed and flinging enemies at each 
 other is fun. The problem is you cant determine where the boxes are going to fling. You want them 
 to hit an enemy but sometimes it flings and hits a wall. You'll find really annoying puzzles in 
 the desert level to where your supposed to hit a ball with your psychokinesis and put it in a hole 
 within a certain amount of psychokinesis hits or else the ball explodes and u have to go back and 
 get another ball. The problem is there are a BUNCHA HOles before you can get into the specific 
 one and it totally takes a good 20 minutes to do. Puzzles: I wouldn't call them much of puzzles. 
 You go around killing enemies until the door opens. Find a switch. ... thats pretty much it except 
 for the ball one mentioned above. Theres one where you are on a floating ball as well and move 
 around to get around lasers but the ball is very uncorpative and moves on its own a lot of the 
 time.
  
  Sound: Meh. Decent i guess. Except for when shadow is running it sounds like gravel.
  
  Voice 
 acting: Decent. Except for tails who sounds stupid ALL the time. They should have kept his sonic 
 adventure 1 voice which was passable. Now he just sounds like a squeaky chipmumk. The dialogue 
 is as cheesy as ever and thats not a good thing.
  
  Supporting cast: Tails: you fly around throwing ring bombs on things. Not exactly fun but hes fast 
 when you fly so you can get through his part of the game fast which is good.
  
  Knuckles: Ever notice how knuckles gets slower in every game? His punching looks dumb now and its 
 hard to hit with him. He glides and crawls on walls still which is good. But his punching SUCKS!! 
 it doesnt even feel like your punching anything.
  
  Amy: lame. in sonic adventure 1 she was more versatile with her hammer using it to spring herself 
 up and her hammer was big enuf to squish anything. and even back then she wasnt that fun. Now shes 
 super super slow and cant hit anything unless your 0.002 mm away from the enemy. She can turn invisible.. which 
 is pointless. and she can double jump which is also useless cause she lags for 2 seconsd to do 
 it and it can hardly send u any forward distance.
  
  Rouge: stupid. Her bombs are useless first person bomb shooting is also gltichy and crappy and 
 theres no advantage same with tails when has it it too. She can glide and climb and yah...
  
  Omega: Fast which is good. can hover which isnt as good as before cause you can get further 
 jumping forward then hovering forawrd. HIs gun mechanics arent that great and not that fun. But 
 fortunately hes one of the more fun characters to play.
  
  Blaze: Blaze is my favourtie chacter to play in this whole game. Shes as fast as sonic and she 
 plays better than sonic. She has a homing attack kinda of attack has a smooth double jump and has 
 a fire spin. Music: Pretty decent. They seemed to have gotten away with alot of their soundtrack 
 with remixes of the His World song which is good cause that song was this game's savior. And the 
 other stage songs and town songs arent terrible so music is this games stronger points.
  
  Overall: I have been bashing this game alot and if i was not a sonic fanboy i would have given 
 this game a 4.0 or 5 at best but since i still think sonic is oneof the coolest gaming characters 
 alive who has been going ythrough rough patches.. i give it a 6 with pity. I think this game had 
 ALOT of potential with all the characters and story and gameplay it was heading for. In the end 
 it just fell short cause they were tryin to meet their deadline. If your looking for a sonic game 
 get sonic rush or sonic rush adventure. or if your looking for a next gen sonic game i would go 
 for sonic and the secret rings and if not then one of the sonic adventures (not heroes it wasnt 
 that good too repetitive) . If you absolutely have to try this game.. you need patience to deal with 
 the ugly camera and terrible loading times. Huge sonic fanboys will be JUST be content enough after 
 they play this game. Defintely a rent or bargain bin. Dont pay more then 20 dollars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SuperReviews
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jun 14, 2008 7:35 pm PT
Review:  The trailers were so tempting.... I needed this game...... Did I really need it? Yup, the name 
 shares the title with the original but for god's sake, WORST SONIC GAME EVER. This game is so bad, 
 I had to review it just to tell you how much it smells....
  
  Gameplay 2/5: Nice try, Sonic Team. Trying to make the gameplay similair to Sonic Adventure and 
 Sonic Adventure 2 was not the brightest idea. Still it had some cool moves, like sliding into bad 
 guys, with all those glitches, the game's impossible.
  
  Controls 2/5: This is where it gets depressing. I would think that after Sonic Heroes (for the 
 GC) Sonic Team would roll with smooth controls FOREVER. My dreams got broken when this came out. 
 The controls were TERRIBLE and an even worser camera. These controls are almost worser than Mortal 
 Kombat (for the Plug n' Play) controls! (Just barely missed it.)
  
  Music 5/5: Lucky save, Sonic Team. The music was actually good! Bringing Zebrahead into the concept 
 was awesome! Not a bit similar to Sonic Adventure! Well, you're saved this time, but everything 
 else was terrible..
  
  With a save with the music, Sonic '06 gets a 2.5/10. I'm sorry, Sonic. It's not your fault. It's 
 the game's fault... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: omaranty
Rating: 1.5
Date: May 31, 2008 10:59 am PT
Review:  hey im here to tell you why sonic thehedgehog stinks. it has technical and gamplay problem its 
 boring and it has continuos loading screens.
  imagin this a guy gives you mission you look at a loading screen you do the mission another loading 
 screen the guy congrdulates you and another loading screen.
  and sonic is so slow and shadow and silver are too slow this should be called the super slow dudes.
 
  feel free to disagree with me . now remember what i said and message me.
  
  score:1.5
  reviewer: omaranty
  and a quicki reminder that mario super sluggers is coming out this june.
 
  and did you know that nintendo has been working on a top secret project naruto clash of ninja 
 revolution 2.
  any questions about anything in this review just message me .
  till next time gamer fans.
  oh and suprisingly i bought simpsons the movie and it was helarious 
 so go out and pick it up my brother laughed to death. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamelove1
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 25, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog for the (PS3) was the first next-gen sonic game out trying to celebrate the 
 15th anniversary of sonic. Now I wonder if they realize that it was for the fifteenth anniversary!
 
  
  Sonic, Shadow, and newcomer Silver fight the evil Dr. Eggman (even though the real enemies is Mephelis 
 and Iblis) to save a beautiful place called Soleana. Well actually the poorlly rendered Soleana 
 which has explosions, kidnappings, evil god's, lots of water which is more dangerous than the villin 
 himself, and a princess with powers that destroy the world if she cries. 
  
  I don't know why this game was exclusive to the 360 and PS3 because the gamecube has had better 
 graphics than this game. Though they do give off some beautiful HD cut scenes though. Let me stress 
 "few". Even if the cutscene was HD with one charecter it isn't with the next. Don't ask me why 
 SEGA decided to redo the cutscene to make it look crappy. Only god knows!
  
  The levels are fun........ in...... a way I guess. The actuall gameplay is fun and will keep you 
 going back for more. Each charecter does go through the same level but they have different objectives 
 and puzzels. These are designed to make you use your charecters special abilities. EG: Shadow can 
 jump up and dash quickly at the targeted object, Sonic turns mini, gets speed boosts, and makes 
 tornadoes, and Silver can blow things up as well as make them levetate (he doesn't really blow 
 things up but if he levetates an item for too long, all though it's not supposed to, it blows up) .
 
  
  The town stages are fun and can somwhat teach you how to play the ga- me better. But some of these 
 can take longer than the actual levels/ act stages.
  
  There are more glitches in this game then money in the world. When a charecter talks it's voice 
 can be heard and once it's done talking then the mouth will move. Also charecters can sometimes 
 get hurt by destroying an enemy. And the charecters will jump into the water, or cliff, or lava, 
 or anything that kills you by them selfs. The multiplayer is really no different than any other 
 sonic game either.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog is a fun and adictive game that does have some good looking cutscenes. But it 
 does have it's flaws. Hopefully SEGA won't make the same mistakes next time.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TopazLeader06
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 16, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about Sonic the Hedgehog for the 360 and PS3, I assumed that the game would 
 get onto Gamespot's Top Ten on the PlayStation 3 list. After I finally got the system and the game, 
 I put the disc in.
  
  Later on, I found myself heartbroken; Sega had promised us a game that they say would get us hooked. 
 Like smoking, I quit playing nearly after seeing the 40 times I die and the long loading times.
 
  
  Positives
  -Good graphics
  -An epic score
  -The ability to play as Sonic, Shadow or Silver in their own stories
  
  Negatives
  -Long 
 loading times
  -Glitches cause me to die a lot
  
  BUY, RENT OR LEAVE?
  
  I suggest you leave this title. It's just a big, fat heaping of hype. Sega, why? Why do you guys 
 choose to rush for the Holidays or a system launch? Why not do what Super Smash Bros. Brawl went 
 through and delay it first to finish cleaning it up? My faith in you has been shattered... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Genesiz
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  The game has too many glitches sonic is slower and the loading takes forever the camera is not 
 that good if you like sonic games you will be dissapointed with this game 
  
  it looked cool but it wasn't worth the wait some of the parts were too hard to do like the silver 
 stage in the desert
  
  The game had many problems shadow the hedgehog for gamecube and playstation 2 is better than this 
 game sega needs to make a sonic game that has less glitches and really fun and with a great camera 
 and just the right dificulty they better make sonic unleashed and sonic dark brother hood great 
 games fast loading with good camera not much glitches unlike this game which has many glitches 
 bad camera and sonic is slower nad the loaindg takes forever hope sega makes sonic dark brother 
 hood and sonic unleashed great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theantihero101
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 7, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog (aka Sonic the Disaster & Sonic the Disgrace) have terrible gameplay, terrible 
 levels, crappy story, and of course terrible voice acting. This game would've been great, but it 
 turns to be more crappier than Shadow the Hedgehog, Sonic Riders, & whatever Sonic game that turns 
 out to be a disappointment. The only good thing this game have would be the music & graphics. If 
 Sega didn't rushed this overall crap-tacular game, then it would've been a lot better. Now the 
 voices, the ever controversial Jason Griffith & the rest of the 4kids Voice Actors & Actress are 
 voicing the Sonic Characters. I know 4kids did terrible as the Sonic Characters, but some of them 
 did okay (ex. Mike Pollock) . If there's any people who bought/rent this game & say it was good, 
 I would just laugh at them and then slap them silly on their silly faces. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jin_man
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Sonic the hedgehog is only good for its graphics, it has the worst story ever! The original sonic 
 was better than this. Theres glitches in this game like killer walls. Tails has a horrible voice 
 acting. The loading times is also bad. If I wanted to, I could run 1 mile and this game would still 
 be loading. Also Sonic in the older games are mostly smaller than humans but well in this one its 
 like a giant sonic.
  
  Theres no mush reason of enemys because they just are there so it is not a boring game. Even if 
 you hit a enemy you probly will miss. Is Sonic like blind or something??? 
  
  Are you running but then you stop, well thats called an invisable wall breaker, its kind of showing 
 that you can't go pass them! If you are running so fast but then you think you can go faster but 
 then it just happens that theres a wall that is a new color, its called invisable!! I don't know 
 about this, is this like a secret or something that annoys you in your gamming days.
  
  Sonic is ment for speed, but not hyper speed, its so fast that you probly would die if you were 
 human. Come on I know you want sonic to be fast but this happens random! You can only dodge enemys 
 and walls, kind of annoying! Sonic is also the dumbest creatures in the world because he wants 
 to be Super- Man but he decides to jump of a cliff and see if he could fly buut instead he kills 
 himself.
  
  The gameplay sucks, but the new characters are good and also the ones that were alerady in the 
 sonic universe. Theres are big problems of this game. Silver is the only good thing they added 
 to this game, sorry SEGA but its just a horrible game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Godofnerdyness
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:25 am PT
Review:  The Good: Sonic's back and looking great (Graphics are good!) , pretty good story, the new character 
 Silver adds some intrigue to the game.
  
  The Bad: The story is boring at some parts, Shadow has crappy vehicles to drive, Invisible walls 
 will kill you a lot, Hyperspeed Sonic runs can be frustrating, Silver feels awkward to control 
 at times, Tails and Rouge are very poor characters, the voice acting at times is terrible, PS3 
 version will lag at parts, Sonic looks strangely big compared to the humans, LONG LOADING TIMES.
 
  
  If you've been alive for the past few years, you'll know Sonic The Hedgehog has been getting hate 
 since his first 3D game, Sonic Adventure. I personally don't think Sonic Adventure or Sonic Adventure 
 2 were bad, hell, I even liked Sonic Heroes where Sonic would blabber on about friendship and hugs 
 and all the delightful things in the world. Anyhow, Sonic The Hedgehog is Sonic in beautiful 3D 
 graphics. I would say it's safe to bet any Sonic fan who saw Sonic shining in his glory was humping 
 the screen until the monitor cracked. But graphics cannot make up for this games flaws. I've been 
 a Sonic fan since he was on the genesis fighting a fat guy who could barely fit in a small ship 
 that looked like it was some reject Star Wars prop. Back then, the story was simple: Kill Eggman. 
 But now, Sonic games try to have epic stories, and for the most part, they fail so hard, Sega ends 
 up stabbing the writers and pouring salt into their wounds. This game has a decent story, however. 
 It's not great, but it's good. Basically, you want to keep a Princess alive and stop Eggman from 
 burning the town. To go into all the detail would probably give you a brain tumor trying to keep 
 up with it.
  
  Sonic starts out in a town populated with people who look very... weird... next to Sonic. If Sonic 
 tried to wank off with his hands, his wee-hoo would get forever lost in the fibres of his gloves. 
 That's how big his hands are. In the CGI cutscenes where Sonic and the Princess have a little love 
 moment, you can't take them seriously when Sonics hands smother her and cover 3/4s of the screen. 
 Back on topic, in the town, Sonic will have to gather clues from people with the intelligence of 
 a roadkill panda, and also do missions. The missions are usually too boring, and the reward isn't 
 spectacular most of the time. Usually, you just get gold rings you can use to buy new shoes that 
 supposedly make you run faster or upgrades for these shoes. High school girls who spend most of 
 their time shoe-shopping will be great at this game! Another big problem with the game is... the 
 loading times. There are so many of them placed around unnecessarily. Imagine this: You talk to 
 someone, accept a mission... Loading time. They tell you some small detail.... Loading time. Missions 
 starts, you finish it... Loading time. You get your reward... Well, you see where this is going. 
 The loading times are so long, you could go next door and murder everyone in the house with a piece 
 of toast and by the time you came back, you would still see the dreaded loaded screen.
  
  Once you have enough clues on where to go next, you get to go into a magic mirror that will take 
 you to the stage. Magic mirror? Good God, the mayor must be some sort of twisted pedophile. You 
 jump in the mirror, and LOADING TIME ATTACK, and then you start the stage. The stages play a LOT 
 like Sonic Adventure. You usually view your character from behind and you run forward rolling into 
 a ball, flinging yourself at robots, picking up gold rings to keep you alive, and collecting power-ups 
 that enchance Sonics balls twenty sizes. Although, there are quite a few problems in these levels.
 
  
  1) Invisible walls are placed in the worst places ever. On one occasion, I used a spring to bounce 
 me up, and when I tried to land, an invisible wall blocked the way, so I would always end up falling 
 into oblivion. The wall was floating in mid-air abouve where Sonic needs to land...
  
  2) There isn't much reason to kill enemies unless they block the way. You might as well walk and 
 enjoy the scenery while robot killing machines stand around you and try to hit you but since they 
 have the accuracy of a hamster with a blindfold, you could probably have a picnic in the middle 
 of a crossfire.
  
  3) There are parts when Sonic decides to enter some sort of hyperspeed mode that feels like a crappy 
 version of Sonic and The Secret Rings. Sonic runs super duper fast, and you can only make him move 
 left or right. You need to move left and right to dodge obstacles in the way, and collect rings. 
 You can also jump while doing this, but you cannot move while jumping. This is what pisses me off. 
 I don't know how many times I died because I jumped and since Sonic thinks he's a dodo, he tries 
 to fly and refuses to land, he flies off the cliffs or edges. Jumping is one thing you want to 
 avoid, as Sonic also ends up crashing into trees and cracking his skull.
  
  Those are the big problems with the gameplay.
  
  There are other characters to play with as 
 well, but you probably won't want to. Sonic is the most fun of everyone to be honest...
  
  Tails: Tails is, as usual, a wussy. He runs really slow in this one, and his attacks are crappy 
 and hard to use without being hit. Controlling his flight is frustrating as well, you never know 
 if he'll go too low or too high. His voice actor must of tried to get high on helium before recording, 
 but failed, and had to go on, ruining Tails.
  
  Rouge: She is just epic fail. Her voice actor sounds like a cheap whore you find in Disneyland, 
 and her attacks are almost as bad as Tails.
  
  Shadow: Though he listens to Simple Plan and cuts himself, he is probably the second best character, 
 as he plays a lot like Sonic... One problem. HE HAS TO DRIVE GOD DAMN VEHICLES. The vehicles try 
 to make him look "bad-ass", but it makes you want to snap the disc. How hard are they to control? 
 I'll give you an idea. Go out to a bar tonight, drink 20 mugs of Vodka, snort some cocaine, then 
 tie yourself to a horses ass and try to ride the horse through a kindergarden classroom without 
 hitting anything. Can you do it? Didn't think so.
  
  Knuckles: Terrible voice actor in this one... He sounds like a Yu-gi-oh character. Otherwise, he's 
 a decent character...
  
  Silver: ACK! The new Sonic character who traveled in time from the future. He has a levitate feature 
 that doesn't work a lot of the time and you end up falling into a pit of rabid dogs set on fire 
 who proceed to stick their firey rods of love up your silvery ass. Trying to use Psychokinesis 
 to lift up crap like boxes is hard, and makes boss fights strangely unpleasant.
  
  You can see where I'm going with this, can't you? Oh, and the multiplayer is pretty bad too.
 
  
  In the end, Sonic The Hedgehog is a big disappointment with some quirks thrown in and nice graphics, 
 but they don't make up for the bad gameplay and dialogue that was written by someone who doesn't 
 know what the word "plot" means. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allright715
Rating: 1.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:02 pm PT
Review:  I got this game now but my sister wanted it so i said, "What the heck. I hope it's good". I got 
 the game and I started playing it on my PS3. The graphics were very good! By that look I thought 
 it would be a good game. But instead, I played something, uhhhhh, how can I put this? Oh yeah, 
 RUSHED. The game was very glitchy. The camera is put where you don't want it. When I was playing 
 the beach level with Tails, the camera was put the opposite where it's supposed to be. The controls 
 were very sensitive and I couldn't go around very well. Plus, the camera sometimes doesn't catch 
 up. The most glitchiest thing I ever saw in this game was when I was playing the running part on 
 the beach level. When Sonic crashed into a wall with no rings, he was in his flying tripping state, 
 AGAINST THE WALL. He sometimes moved to the left or right even if there wasn't a wall. My response 
 to this, FIX IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KaiserWebb
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 22, 2008 8:23 pm PT
Review:  Story:
  The story of the game is just plain terrible.
  First off is Sonic's story which basically is Princess gets kidnapped, Sonic saves her, Sonic and 
 Princess have corny love scene then the process repeats over and over. Not only is it repetitive 
 but the whole thing is rather sick, there is a animal and human relationship in this game I kid 
 you not. The princess even kisses Sonic at the end, WTF was Sonic Team thinking! Shadow and Silvers 
 stories are just clinched garbage, making no good sense at all.
  
  Graphics: 
  Some say the graphics are the one upside to this god awful disgrace of a game, in all honesty though 
 the graphics aren't even that good. There worse then most 360 launch titles and the animations 
 and character models will make you sick.
  
  Audio:
  The music is decent this time around, the theme songs for the characters are terrible but the level 
 themes are decent. The worst part about the audio is the voices. If you thought the 4kids cast 
 sucked before wait till you hear them in Sonic Next Gen. They butchered every characters personality 
 and all sound bland and emotionless. Special shoat out to Jason Griffith for completely destroying 
 Sonic's personality and making him sound like a complete dork, his honestly the worst voice actor 
 in anything EVER!
  
  Gameplay:
  Sonic's gameplay has been completely screwed with, his controls have been screwed with and homing 
 attack, bouncing, and spin dash have all been completely missed up to a point where there useless 
 along with the terrible mach speed that is completely terrible in both control and design. Tails 
 is an uncontrollable miss with his flying being a disaster to navigate and the ring bombs as his 
 offense is just terrible and they usually miss there target and hardly so any damage. Knuckles 
 is terrible as well with a very screwy glide that doesn't last nearly as long as it used to also 
 with his combat being a mess and its like this whole game an uncontrollable nightmare. Shadow is 
 Sonic with vehicles and an even more broken homing attack. Rouge is Knuckle's awful gliding with 
 bomb combat of Tails mixed into a hellish nightmare. Omega is terrible, but thankfully not as bad 
 as some of the others. Silver was an interesting idea gone to waste with awful physic powers and 
 terrible aiming with those powers. The best character to play as is Blaze and she even has some 
 laggy controls and has her own uncontrollable moments. Add the awful level design, crazy load times, 
 bad town stage missions, worst multiplayer of any Sonic game, and the fact that Sonic runs incredibly 
 slow and you have this disaster of a game.
  
  Overall: 
  This is by far easily the worst Sonic game, maybe even one of the worst games, of all time. Not 
 a single good thing can be found here and its an insult to name this piece of garbage after the 
 Genesis original. This game would make real hedgehogs cry its that bad, no joke. If you come in 
 contact with it DESTROY IT at all costs.
  
  Score 1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blueguy93
Rating: 1
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:04 pm PT
Review:  I've played this game, just to let you know. Sonic 2007 is a completly lazy game, and is obviously 
 the worst game of 2007, but that's not the biggest problem. Sega obviously wasted their time, and 
 were attracted to sleeping on BBQ grills instead.
  
  Game-play: 1/10
  
  At least it has game-play. But, it doesn't matter. Once you go into the stupid dump with Sonic, 
 you'll get to a mission, which should be optional in the game. When you enter the mission, it loads 
 for a year, and then again, and then it finally goes to your mission. When you beat it, it loads 
 like this again and again and again. Sonic is in love with a female human, and ignores animal love 
 with Amy. I've played with better crap then this, and Sonic can't ignore human ladies in this game.
 
  
  Graphics: 1/10
  
  The big visual are ugly. There are many dang glitches just to lose your appetite. What is the point 
 with this? I shouldn't be even reviewing this at all!!!
  
  Sound: 1/10
  
  Because of the glitches
  
  Camera and control: 1/10
  
  The camera goes at the wrong time. 
 The control is the clunkiest of all time. If there seriously was a problem with Sega, then this 
 is it. You'll be pointlessly frustrated when you see some of the levels that have this idiotic 
 camera and pointless control.
  
  Valeu: 1/10
  
  Don't even listen to Sega, they screwed up on this game.
  
  Average score: 1/10
  
  Seriously, 
 this was almost the end of Sonic. It sucks, it's lame, so don't buy it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imacritic814
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:21 pm PT
Review:  You a Sonic fan? You've got money to buy a new game? Ready to spend it? Well don't spend it on 
 this game! Sonic the Hedgehog will be a waste of your money, and you'll be better off playing the 
 version for the PS2, Gamecube... what the heck, even your DS or GBA! 
  
  This game has very few nice features, but MANY BAD! The only good I seem to find in the game are 
 the colorful environments like the beaches and cities, and that you get to play as different characters 
 throughout the whole game.
  
  The bad comes next. The controls in the game for each and every character is hard to use, or even 
 get used to! The game has many glitches, and the storyline didn't seem to have much work on it, 
 let alone any work on it. After playing for even one hour, ONE HOUR, I just had to give up on it. 
 The levels are hard to beat, and the camera, while playing, gets in my way! 
  
  I have to give this game a 1.5. The 0.5 is only for the nice, beautiful places you get to play 
 in. But everything else is a 0. Sorry Sonic fans, but trust me, you're better off playing something 
 else than this waste of time game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mav_destroyer
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 9, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  First off, the PAL version of this game comes with a very nice glitch: the cut scenes and movies 
 are SLOW, you can hear the characters talking but by the time you see them actually talking the 
 conversation will have ended. still no news from Sega whether this will get fixed or not. so keep 
 that in mind before buying this game.
  
  Introduction: In this game there are the main characters in story mode (Sonic , Silver & Shadow) , 
 you start out with Sonic and unlock the other two as you play the story mode. each character has 
 2 side characters that you can play with
  Sonic: Tails & Knuckles
  Shadow: Rogue & Omega
  Silver: Blaze & Amy
  you can only play with these characters at certain levels and at certain 
 times during the level.
  
  Graphics & Sound: graphics are ok, and the music is great (in game of course)
  
  Story: the 
 story is a bit weird but its not bad either.
  
  Game play: the amount of glitches in this game is unbelievable, this would've actually been a good 
 game if it wasn't for that. glitches include: randomly sliding off cliffs, falling through the 
 floor while standing still, flying through vines instead of grabbing them to swing from one place 
 to the other and other stuff...
  
  Noticeable issues while playing with characters:
  Sonic: Suddenly stopping while dashing on a wall, unstable controls
  Tails: can only fly forwards 
 which makes it difficult when you want him to hover to a higher location only.
  Knuckles: randomly sliding while doing his combos
  Shadow: hard to jump into a vehicle, slow 
 compared to sonic. 
  
  Conclusion: I don't know what Sega was thinking or if they even bothered to test the game before 
 releasing it, they should stick with handheld games from now on. I would not recommend this game 
 to anyone. I'm a sonic fan myself and playing this game was just painful. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: retroworld3000
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 19, 2009 8:25 am PT
Review:  I thought this game is like a remake of the original, classic game in 3D. Nope, Sega and Sonic 
 Team has just ruined Sonic for the 3rd time. Sonic Labyrinth, sucks! Sonic the Hedgehog on GBA 
 that's never released in Europe, sucks! And this one!! SUCKS!!!!!
  
  The story in the game is just dull. And you know I what character I hate in the game most? You 
 got it, it's Princess Elise, Sonic having a romantic relationship with a princess. COME ON MAN! 
 Didn't Elise appeared in any of the Sonic games? NO!!!
  
  Enough of this rant and let's talk about this god awful Sonic game. Now then finding where you 
 are supposed to go next around Soleanna is just soo boring. You get lost soo easy and the map you 
 have is useless. If they added a big 'M' on side of the map that would be useful. Yes! There are 
 those stupid 20-second load times as well. Let's take an example on accepting the town act missions 
 from people which are stupid. Say I walked up to a ripoff guy named Sonic Man and he asked that 
 he wanted a race against me. I say yes and then the load screen appears, then he tells me what 
 to do, then a another load screen appears, then I complete or fail the town act, load screen appears, 
 then he congrats me or say better luck time pal, another load appears. WHY DOES THIS GAME HAS TO 
 LOAD THE TOWN ACTS TWICE!! I MEAN COME ON CAN IT JUST LOAD ONCE THEN THAT'S IT. But even better, 
 no load times at all for these stupid town acts.
  
  Now about the main thing. Action Acts as we call it levels. These have not been improved this time 
 and there are load times in between. Rather than running on foot freely all the time. There are 
 ways to get through these scenes considering one I most hate. The super speed stages. And yes, 
 they are really frustrating and you keep crashing into everything all the time and one false move 
 and you're dead!! Even in the boarding stages of Sonic. Iike you don't press the button right then 
 you won't be able to jump off the damn ramp!!! Even in some stages of Sonic. You sometimes carry 
 Elise. Ugh Sega for crying out loud why do you have to make your mascot fall in love with Elise?? 
 In some levels when you play as any of the three hedgehogs, you sometimes play as other characters 
 for a while as well like when you play as Sonic, you sometimes play as Knuckles or Tails but, all 
 of them have really useless attacks, bad voice acting and really bad controls. And also, this game 
 has these damn glitches too like when Sonic falls off a level, he falls through unsoild scenery 
 at the bottom. By the way, if you blame Sega, blame Sonic Team too. This Sonic game is really disappointing 
 .
  
  The music is kinda not bad though but some of them do suck and also. SEGA is focusing way to much 
 on the graphics. Well let's hope Sonic Unleashed is better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AWESOME_GAME
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Oh... I was just so excited with this game... I guess that even big franchizes like Sonic can be 
 a total let down... And when I mean total let down, I MEAN TOTAL LET DOWN!!!! This game just isn't 
 worth one cent from anywone... When I first rented it and started playing, I was realy entertained, 
 I loved it. But then, things started to show up, like: Extreme camera problems, umbelievable glitches, 
 free falls, horrible controles, STUPID missions, lack of story, repetitive moments, too many loadings, 
 frustratings obstacles that totaly destroy times that you're speeding, and so on... So on... So 
 on... Well anyway, don't judge a book by it's cover, this game is terrible. Especialy one lava 
 stage, that you speed a lot, but the problem is that the enviroment is too dark, and you keep falling 
 in endless pits and etc. And some stages you even get lost. Yes, a Sonic game that you can get 
 lost. Hard to imagine? Then buy the game and play it, no, don't buy it, rent it, and be sure you're 
 not low on money, because it's not worth it. Well, enough flaws, lets talk about the cons. Awesome 
 cutscenes, playing as Flash and Shadow, good graphics. Just that. And oh, ps3 continues doing the 
 same mistake over and over again, they make a game with good graphics, but not fun. Sony just has 
 to remember that a good game doesn't need to have perfect graphics, it just need's to be fun. And 
 here we can see this mistake. Well, overall, the only thing that doesn't make this game get a 1.0 
 is the cons I said before. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: powrbyalienware
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 24, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  Sonic was great in its 2D days. The original trilogy was hard, but Sonic 1 was great, 2 was awesome, 
 and 3 was okay. After 1995, the series went to the dump. That said, despite the pretty graphics, 
 this game is dumb. You run around like a maniac doing nothing. This game is pointless. Sonic should 
 have stopped in 1995 (except for mega collection, etc) .
  
  My recommendation is with this money, pick up the original four 1991-94 Sonics for Genesis, one 
 copy for you and your friend. Or pick up Mega Collection - that is what SEGA should be focusing 
 on.
  
  That said, SEGA is still a great company - I'm giving this game a 3.0 even though I'm a SEGA guy 
 - but the company still has potential. I, myself, would like to see a new 2D Sonic game made in 
 the vein of the original Sonic games of the good days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hotjim129
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog for ps3: All I can say is that people who chop at this game are wrong: Yes there 
 are long loading periods, get over it, and very few glitchy moments. One thing I like is that it's 
 so fun to play as them all. Silver, Shadow, and Sonic. It looks like that's all there is to play 
 with but you're wrong. From time to time characters will pop in and say stuff likeI'll take 
 it from here". And each story is very interesting to finish. Believe me this is a game that must 
 be played.
  
  Graphics: Pretty good for a playstation 3 game, but I have to admit it could've been better.
 
  
  Gameplay: VERY FUN, this isn't as bad as people think, I like it and the storyline is terriffic!
 
  
  Overall: 8.5, Because of the long load periods, and the, very few, Glitchy moments. This is defiantly 
 a game I would like to own. But rent it first, for your taste on the game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I won't go into a lot of detail with this game, because quite frankly my score says enough. I havn't 
 played a sonic game since I owned sega genesis, and let me say this... this is a horrible excuse 
 for sonic. At first a few of the games obvious flaws seem insufficient to make you put the game 
 down, but as you go through the game, it's just plain annoying. Ok, maybe I'm being too harsh, 
 the game has some cool feels and features. Sonic has never looked so good, and there are some really 
 cool levels and environments. This however doesn't even begin to make up for all of the glitches, 
 poor gameplay, horrible level designs (they look nice, but aren't put together properly) , etc. 
 The list goes on, but hey I'm not stopping anyone who is a die hard sonic fan (like myself) from 
 playing this game, but please PLEASE take my advice and rent it, just to see what you think. I 
 think it's a disgrace but thats only one mans opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:10 am PT
Review:  Plot
  The Princess Elise presides over the peaceful city of Soleanna. During a parade, the city is attacked 
 by Doctor Eggman, who seeks the key to a dangerous weapon that would help him conquer the world. 
 Sonic must rescue Elise from Eggman, attempt to stop a new hedgehog from the future, Silver, and 
 travel through time to discover how Eggman, the weapon he seeks, and Silver the Hedgehog are connected.
 
  
  
  [edit] Sonic the Hedgehog
  Sonic's story begins in Soleanna, the City of Water, ruled by Princess Elise. Dr. Eggman learns 
 that she is the keeper of a dark secret - the "Flames of Disaster" - and attempts to kidnap her. 
 Sonic rescues Elise and is attacked by Silver the Hedgehog, who has traveled from the future to 
 stop the "Iblis Trigger". Engaging in combat, Elise is recaptured by Eggman.
  
  With Amy Rose distracting Silver, Sonic goes to rescue Elise with Tails and Knuckles, but all three 
 are trapped and sent to Silver's future where they find Shadow and Rouge. Records in the future 
 suggest that Elise will die in Eggman's captivity in the present. The trio return to the present, 
 with Sonic able to rescue Elise; however, Silver attacks once again.
  
  During combat with Silver, Eggman once again kidnaps Elise, with Shadow appearing to fight Silver. 
 Sonic saves Elise and they both escape into the jungle; however, Elise surrenders to Eggman after 
 he threatens to use his battleship to destroy the city. Just as Sonic is able to locate Eggman's 
 battleship, it explodes. Sonic and Silver trigger Chaos Control, Sonic travels to the past to infiltrate 
 Eggman's battleship, and Sonic is able to rescue Elise for the last time.
  
  
  [edit] Shadow the Hedgehog
  Shadow's story begins with his invasion of Eggman's base to try to 
 find Rouge the Bat, sent to retrieve the Scepter of Darkness; finding her, they escape and battle 
 Dr. Eggman, during which the Scepter is shattered, releasing Mephiles.
  
  Transforming into Shadow's image, Mephiles flings Shadow and Rouge to a devastated future where 
 they meet up with Sonic, Tails, and Knuckles, who were sent to the future by Eggman. They return 
 to the past, whilst Shadow remains to confront Mephiles. Rouge finds Omega and orders him to wait 
 in time to deliver a Chaos Emerald to Shadow in the future. Back in the future, Shadow is told 
 that humans will betray him, but refuses to join Mephiles, who transforms into his second form 
 and a battle ensues. Omega joins him and defeats Mephiles, who flees to the past. The two return 
 to the present and meet up with Rouge. Shadow goes looking for Eggman to ask who Mephiles really 
 is, and asks Rouge to keep track of Mephiles.
  
  Shadow finds Sonic under attack from Silver, and rescues him, engaging Silver in combat. Shadow 
 overpowers him with Chaos Control. Silver also uses Chaos Control, which creates a rip in time/space. 
 In order to understand more about Mephiles and Iblis, they decide to witness the accident themselves 
 by travelling in time to the failure of the Solaris project. It is revealed that Mephiles and Iblis 
 must be sealed to be defeated. In being sealed by Shadow, Mephiles gains Shadow's form and abilities, 
 thus creating a causality loop. Back in the present, Omega pursues Mephiles and defeats him. It 
 is revealed that Omega defeated and sealed Shadow in the future.
  
  Shadow, Rouge, and Omega chase Mephiles to a desert temple with a new Scepter, but fail to seal 
 him in the new Scepter because of Mephiles' new form. Mephiles uses his powers, along with two 
 chaos emeralds, to summon a clone army of himself. Before anyone attacks, Mephiles reminds Shadow 
 of the human's betrayal against Shadow in the future. Without hesitation, Shadow decides that if 
 the world chooses to become his enemy, he will fight as he always has. Shadow then removes his 
 bracelets and, in a huge burst of energy, defeats the Mephiles clones with his allies, with the 
 story ending in a cliffhanger.
  
  
  [edit] Silver the Hedgehog
  Silver lives in a devastated future, where telekinetic powers are normal. In this future, Silver's 
 world is completely destroyed by what is known as the "Flames of Disaster". He and his friend, 
 Blaze the Cat, battle an immortal being known as "Iblis". Frustrated that Iblis always revives 
 himself, a mysterious figure named Mephiles appears and informs Silver that he can stop the Flames 
 of Disaster by defeating Sonic, the so-called "Iblis Trigger", the main cause of the "Flames of 
 Disaster". Mephiles, Silver and Blaze travel back in time to prevent Sonic from destroying the 
 future. Silver, separated from Blaze, sets out to kill Sonic.
  
  After meeting Amy Rose and locating Sonic in the city, Sonic and Silver battle, with Amy saving 
 Sonic at the last moment. Finding Blaze, Silver redetermines that he must destroy Sonic, and in 
 battling Sonic again, Shadow appears, with Silver mistaking him for Mephiles. The two fight, with 
 Shadow overpowering Silver with Chaos Control. Afterwards deciding to induce a Chaos Control using 
 the two Chaos Emeralds they both had, the two hedgehogs travel to the past to the Solaris Project. 
 Arriving during the explosion that releases Mephiles and Iblis, they discover that Iblis was sealed 
 in 7 year old Elise by her father, The Duke of Soleanna, with Mephiles being sealed in the Scepter 
 of Darkness by Shadow. The two realize the monsters must be sealed to be defeated.
  
  Silver and Blaze, realizing Mephiles' betrayal, assist Sonic in saving Elise but arrive too late 
 as the Egg Carrier explodes. Using Chaos Control with Silver, Sonic travels back to save Elise, 
 giving Silver a Chaos Emerald for him to return to the future. Traveling forward in time, Silver 
 and Blaze fight Iblis and successfully defeat him. Silver attempts to be the vessel for Iblis, 
 but wasn't accepted, however, Blaze was, and seals both herself and Iblis into another dimension 
 to save both Silver and her world.
  
  
  [edit] Last Story
  Mephiles rises from the ground and launches a beam that impales and kills Sonic. As she realizes 
 that Sonic's gone, Elise cries, releasing Iblis. Mephiles then used the Chaos Emeralds to merge 
 with Iblis, forming Solaris, the sun god worshipped by the residents of Soleanna, who creates his 
 own world to destroy time itself. Shadow, Silver, Eggman and all of the others are transported 
 to the space-time rift by the Chaos Emeralds.
  
  There everyone meets each other and grief over Sonics death. Eggman reveals that Solaris can't 
 be defeated in the present, since it exists in all timelines. Silver suggests that they destroy 
 Solaris all at once, but Shadow mentions it is not possible without Sonic. Elise feels Sonic's 
 presence in the wind. Silver realizes that they can use the Chaos Emeralds to revive him. After 
 a lengthy search, they find the Chaos Emeralds and revive Sonic with Elise's kiss, transforming 
 him into Super Sonic who then expands his power to allow Shadow and Silver to transform into their 
 super forms, and together the three hedgehogs defeat Solaris.
  
  Sonic travels with Elise to the birth of the "Flames of Disaster". Realizing that if she puts out 
 the Flames, Solaris will never exist and the two will never meet, though she doesn't want their 
 friendship to end, Sonic convinces her to abandon their meeting. With tears in her eyes and a small 
 smile, Elise gently blows Solaris from existence, thus erasing the whole game's events and happenings. 
 Afterwards, the timeline changes so she is never kidnapped, and never meets Sonic. All the events 
 of the game never happened, and the game ends with Sonic watching the parade in peace, showing 
 a small hint that he remembers the adventure even if nobody else did. Since the events were erased, 
 it is likely that this story has no continuity in the ongoing canon, and all events and elements 
 in the future are a "What-if" venture.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  I loved Sonic when I was younger and played it through mostly every system. Sonic has come a long 
 way since the beginning. This game is good, but it could have been better. At first it' s kind 
 of boring cuz you can't really do anything the city. The graphics are amazing. The controls are 
 a bit weird and you have to get used to cuz sometimes you go way to fast and just die unexpectedly. 
 The stages are long enough to keep you busy. I'm not gonna say something really bad about the game 
 cuz I thought it was actually a good game. Hopefully if they make another Sonic game, it should 
 be better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Suliman-Uchia
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 7, 2007 12:02 pm PT
Review:  Now this game was a letdown. The graphics are horrible compared to the 360/PS3 standerd. The camera 
 is very annoying you just can't control the crazy thing. Sega once again allowed you to walk in 
 the city it is boring I just want to play the levels. The story was boring and silver is a horrible 
 character. He just comes out of nowhere. This game is a let down the first level is good but after 
 that it is the worst. This has to be the worst sonic it is not fast actually it is slow with all 
 the frame rate problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wuflungdung
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  One of the first games I ever remember playing was Sonic 1. The Sonic games have evolved with the 
 times as new technology has come out. Some games good, some games bad. This is one of the bad, 
 but not the worst I have played. The advent of 3D to console games hasn't been kind to the Sonic 
 series. They have been riddled with poorly made games since this time, the newest being no exception. 
 Being made by SEGA I expected better things, they have really lifted their quality of game making 
 since the collapse of their console making enterprise. But they haven't learned from the mistakes 
 of the past games in the Sonic series.
  
  This new game of Sonic is plagued with many problems.
  
  The main being like every other 3D 
 sonic game, the controls. The controls are a mess and the camera is always in stupid positions. 
 The levels are actually pretty cool, but the control problems just ruin the game completely, you 
 find yourself thinking about what could have been. There is alot of potential in this game, but 
 it wasted because SEGA didn't take the time to fine tune the game and have it up to scratch.
  
  The load times are ridiculous for the technology of today, while this could of been forgiven 
 on the PS1 in 1997, this is the PS3 in 2007. Every change of screen is met with a loading screen. 
 The town level is ruined by the amount of loading you have to do for every little thing that happens. 
 It would be a frustration that could be handled if they gameplay was great, but due to the poor 
 controls it just makes the game drag out.
  
  Multiplayer can be fun, but is hampered by the poor controls. You find yourself both getting stuck 
 at one point of every level and waiting for one person to not stuff up because of the bad controlling. 
 There potential is there, but it was missed and missed badly. Why SEGA continually swings big and 
 misses with Sonic is beyond me. In so many years they haven't learned from their mistakes and produced 
 a great 3D sonic game.
  
  Maybe its time to go back to 2D? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameSpottus
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 11, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  This game was a little bit of a disappointment, but it's not as bad as what people say it is. It 
 actully has the best graphics for the PS3. It introduces two new characters, Silver the Hedgehog, 
 and Princess Elise. It can be sometimes easy and sometimes hard, but it all depends on the part 
 of the game. I'm not in love with this game because it does have a lot of glitches, bugs, and transparency. 
 This game is like a disaster compared to Sonic Heroes, but not by much. It's pretty much my favorite 
 game for the PS3.
  
  Gameplay (8/10) : In this game, adventure field from Sonic Adventure is back (well, not really) . 
 You go through various stages and fight hard bosses. There are three playable characters. Each 
 character has supporting characters as well, that are playable. Also, you collect silver metals 
 scattered throughout Soleanna and the action stages. Each time you complete a task (whether is 
 easy or hard) , you get a gold metal. The ranking system is different compared to the other Sonic 
 games, Instead of a being the highest, S is. Instead of E being the lowest, D is. All ranking stages 
 go by score (including bosses) , and that's what sucks about this game.
  
  Sometimes the controls are wacky. For example, if you jump off a spring, you could miss a couple 
 of rings, even though you should be getting them all. Sometimes you my be robbed. For example, 
 if you are running on a path in which you run automatically, you could get out of control and fall 
 off while you're not touching the controls. The chracters that were fast in previous games, are 
 now really slow. For example, Tails was fast in previous Sonic games. Well, now, he is extremely 
 slow and hard to control.
  
  Graphics (10/10) : Well, it is High-Definition. Put it that way. But they are very rich and detailed, 
 with beautiful colors on the characters, stages, and items. Really good visuals and framerate. 
 If you turn a camera behind a wall, it won't look like it disappeared, and that's a common thing 
 for a Sonic game. The enemy's weapons firing out bof the cannons, the fire is so real, it looks 
 like that it could come out nd attack you.
  
  Sound (8/10) : The theme songs (in my opinion) aren't that great. The song called His World isn't 
 in the rock genre. Usually in a Sonic game, I find most musics (without lyrics) to be interesting 
 an in the rock genre. It may not be fuzzy or loud, but the music just doesn't interest me very 
 much. It'a great, though.
  
  Value (7/10) : Not that I wouldn't want to beat the game once, but I don't think it's worth beatting 
 again, just playing it a little bit after beating it.
  
  Tilt (8/10) : It's a great game, but I was expecting it to be a lot better than it is. I wanted 
 it to be better than Sonic Heroes, but it turned out that my wish wasn't granted. It's not as good 
 as the rest of the Sonic gamecube games either.
  
  Overall Score: 8.2 (Great) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  For many years there is always a great charcter appears almost every year with a new story and 
 anathor charcter in almost every game. The new charcter in the series is Sliver the Hedgehog who 
 can use Psychokinesis to move and throw items. You also play as Shadow, Knuckles, Tails and a few 
 others. There are 3 stories to the 3 charcters Sonic, Shadow and Sliver
  Main story leads takes place at Kingdom Soleanna where there is a Princess called Elise who lost 
 her mother and father at a younge age she mustn't cry becuase she has a mysterious power she possesses. 
 And yes Eggman is up to anathor plan to try and take over the world and somthing to do with the 
 Chaos Emerarlds too.
  Gameplay is just the same as any other Platformer but each charcter has there own moves, but the 
 bad thing about this game the most is cheap deaths and dodgy controls at random places. The game 
 is kinda slow because of loadins and free roming in the world of Soleanna, its graphics look the 
 same as the PS2 version but better. What I liked about this game was the CGI graphics espaiclly 
 Sonic's Intro becuase it reminds you of the film FF7- Advent Children and CGI movie cutscenes are 
 great to watch. There are some annoying voices at random scenes and slow gameplay. If your a Sonic 
 fan I suggest you get this game cheap or borrow it from someone you know. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterchief375
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 25, 2007 5:03 pm PT
Review:  After waiting for years and countless delays, Sega finally released this mess of a game on my PS3. 
 How do I feel you say?? Disappointed is the word that comes to mind. Sonic Team took so long to 
 make this game and they release it with numerous bugs and glitches that make you wanna take your 
 Sonic disc and chuck it out of the nearest window. The game has many glitches that can cause you 
 to die and lose a life, which sends you back to the nearest checkpoint, and don't get me started 
 on that awful thing Sega calls a camera system. The game's camera goes crazy at times and makes 
 it extremely hard to see what's going on during the platforming levels, which can cause many, many, 
 unnecessary deaths. I love Sonic games and everything, but Sega missed the mark with this one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: u_poop
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  This game is so cool and it is awsome is one of the best bring back of a old classic, the game 
 is just plain good. first off the gameplay. When you first start the game you are in a borin old 
 citiy and then yo u meet the girly hedge hog :Tails which he follows you for a little. And then 
 you go chat with some people which is some times funny ans you beggin to wonder why they put the 
 part in the game. also i wonder why they put the cheasy yet easy mini games in the in the mix. 
 The levels are very very fast paced and and sometimes very challenging. I wish there was a way you 
 can put your scores up online. A very good part about the game is that the levels are very colorful 
 and fun. Now time for graphics. Well for such a great game something has to go wrong, right? Well 
 the developers realy realy need to use some good old fashioned anti-aliasaning or how ever you 
 spell it. The games edged are harshly rough and on a hd tv the grapics seem worse and more washed 
 out. But i can easily get passed the graphics perspective and play the game for fun. As for the 
 comparison bettween the consles i perfer the ps3 s version just because of the control lay out 
 and the clicky buttons of the six-axis. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Q8iy
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 28, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hegdehog was a reaLLy good game in my opinion, but I beLieve that the main reason of 
 why many pLayers did not Like the game is because of the joystick that was supported by the PS3 
 was not customized to fit the game. What I mean is that if you notice that Sonic the Hedgehog was 
 reaLLy cLose in styLe to Sonic Adventures and the difference between them is that one was a big 
 hit and the other was a major dissapointment, I beLieve that the reason behind this is due to the 
 joystick, because in Sonic Adventures the Dreamcast joystick was 'made' to fit perfectLy Sonic 
 games, whiLe in Sonic the Hedgehog the joystick had no connection to the game at aLL, making the 
 game hard to controL and sometimes frustrating when moving fast and dropping dead! OverraLL I beLieve 
 that if Sonic the Hedgehog was reLeased into a Sega consoLe then the game wouLd've been a big hit 
 Like Sonic Advenures but aLso Sega did a good job in reLeasing an action oriented game that had 
 many great LeveLs. The hardest LeveL that I reaLLy shouLd mention is Kingdom VaLLey (whoa! This 
 LeveL was reaLLy hard but quite chaLLenging) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Trogdor2355
Rating: 3.3
Date: Aug 4, 2007 11:12 pm PT
Review:  i'm not gonna lie to you this game is really bad. guess what sonic has to save the world again. 
 and just to mix things up let's add an another dimenion to mix things up. sonic, shadow, and newly 
 added silver are saving the world. the graphics are good but not great town missions are a disgrace, 
 and action missions are dull, silver is the only interesting one. phycho-whatever is pretty fun. 
 camera is fun, dont buy it. sonic fans will like it and boss battles are fun. on a high note the 
 high res cut scenes are breath-taking. so in conclusion maybe the worst sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spongefan1
Rating: 2.6
Date: Aug 12, 2007 7:23 am PT
Review:  Story- Sonic's story isw about a princess named Elise who the key to unleashing Iblis. Elise pretty 
 much compltely RUINED Sonic's cutscenes. I mean every friekin cutscene its save the princess, lose 
 the princess, run kidnapped, run, save and tyhis cycle continues until the game is over. Also if 
 you haven't noticed yet Elise is completely useless! and she undergoes an animal/human relationship 
 with Sonic... thats just sick man. Princess Elise is also unoriginal becuase she is a rip-off of 
 Kairi from kingdom hearts.
  
  Shadow's story is to stop Mephiles, who is a completely unoriginal recolor of Shadow, who is trying 
 to fuse with Iblis in order to destroy time itself. Yeah... thats pretty much it. Silver's story 
 is about Silver trying to stop Iblis from killing everybody and destroying all time by trying to 
 find the Iblis trigger. Silver teams up with Blaze the cat who has fire powers in order to try 
 to stop Iblis. During the course of this Silver wastes a lot of time trying to figure out what 
 to do in the first place, such as taming up with Amy, Looking for Doctor Eggm, and a lot of other 
 stuff.
  
  ... Well these stories pretty much suck. I think that its a good thing that at the end of this crappy 
 game the events never happened.
  
  This is probably the worst sonic game ever besides the gba version of sonic the hedgehog but I'll 
 review that later. Anyway this games gameplay is completely broken, Sonic moves really slow, and 
 every time you start running fast you bump into something and dont give me that ooh but the mech 
 speed levels more than make up for that. Thay dont, I do admit mech speed levels are really fast 
 but there are so many problems and glitches its not enjoyable at all. Another thing thats annoying 
 is that you cant conetrol where Sonic jumps, I mean he jumps forward and cant stop so your pretty 
 much screwed with that. Also the item placement in this game is horrible, the city crisis level 
 in particular has really bad item placement and what makes it reeally frustrating is that theyu 
 change the camera so that its facing in front of you and its hard to dodge the cars flying at you 
 and then the camera goes back in back of you so if your standing in the wrong place you'll probaby 
 crash into something. I'm not even gonna say anything else about Sonic's, it sucks thats final. 
 Now on to Shadow's gamplay. It seems that sega didn't get the fact that vehicles are pointless 
 for shadow. Shadow's gamplay is like Sonic's but not as bad. The vehicles are very frustrating, 
 for instance when your on that water riding... thing, if it doesn't land on the water the water 
 right you die! There are also a lot of camera problems which cause you to die, over and over and 
 over again!!! The vehicles, once again pretty much ruined shadows gameplay along with the crappy 
 camera. I'm not gonna say anything else about Shadow.
  
  Now Silver's gameplay . His gamplay is so annoying. he's slow as hell!!!!!! Silver is a hedgehog 
 who has psycokinesis allowing him to have psycic abilities, he also has cockatou hair XD. You have 
 to guess where the boss is due to the crappy camera, but the targeting systems pretty bad ass but 
 you could get hit becuase you cant see where the boss is and sometimes s levitation runs out way 
 to quickly, although I just button mash in order to extend how much fly time he has but thats annoying. Thats 
 pretty much it. Also dont get me wrong I like Silver and think he's pretty original, as a matter 
 of fact I like all of the characters, except for Elise I just hate the way the characters are sometimes 
 negatively protrayed.
  
  You can also play as some extra chracters, who's gameplay I will explain.
  Tails- His gameplay 
 sucks!!! For attacks you throw this craopy ring bomb thing while standing in place so the enemies 
 can attack you, so you cant jump on them like you used to be able to. Also tails flys forward and 
 doesnt stop while flying so your forced to spin him around something just to mak him land which 
 is really annoying!!!
  
  Knuckles- I thought it was fine because I just flew over the whole level most of the time. And the 
 climbing on wall thing makes it hard to go around edges.
  
  Amy- This is annoying becuase her hammer attack is powerful but slow so uf your being gang banged 
 its annoying. She also has a double jump which sucks becuase you all know the normal double jump, 
 you jump you jump aain and go higher and more higher , well amy doesnt move forward that much and 
 that will kill you.
  
  Rouge- same as knux but her pic nails make it very hard to get aroung edges and her bomb throwing 
 attacks are frustaring becuase for those spider things that are on the wall you have to come near 
 each of them and place a bomb which is annoying.
  
  E-123 Omega- the gameplay allows you to aattack multiple enemies at a time but he's slow. Oh well, 
 at least its not as bad as the others.
  
  Blaze- Its ok I guess.
  
  Now the moment you have all been waiting for (or not XD) *drum roll*
  THE CRAPPY NEW 4KIDS VOICES!!! I 
 only like like two of them XD
  
  *Warning- this is long XD*
  Sonic:
  voice actor-Jason Griffith horrible!!! he puts no emotion in his speech making sonic sound flat, 
 fake, annoying, and gay seriously this is like the biggest mistake sega has made ever this makes 
 sonic sound dweeby and gay sega must be smoking something bad. (also I dont have anything against 
 gays Im just saying)
  
  Tails:
  Amy Palant-horrible this sucks it makes tails sound like a girl and the voice is really squelly, 
 squeaky and annoying.
  
  Knuckles: Dan Green-horrible this makes knuckles sound like an angry constipated old man on steroids 
 I do admit he does other voices on 4kids pretty good but he's not good for knuckles.
  
  Amy:
  Lisa ortiz-kinda ok-This voice sometimes lacks in emotion, but its not as bad as the others, 
 it kinda bothers me that she makes Amy sound a little older and more Obnoxious. Its a little annoying 
 but kinda ok.
  
  Shadow:
  Jason Griffith (strikes again OHNOEZ) -HORRIBLE No emotion and too monotone. This voice is absolutely 
 the worst for Shadow.
  
  Rouge:
  Caren Manuel-horrible you see this is a perfect example on why 4kids is steriotypical. Rouge looks 
 really flirty and 4kids saw that and gave her a really slut-like voice. She's not a whore she just 
 dresses like that to get what she wants... gosh. Overall it sounds deep and out of her age group. 
 She pretty much sounds like a 40 yr old hooker.
  
  E-123 Omega:
  Maddie Blaustein-horrible She lost that cool dark tone Omega had and gave him a boring wimpy voice. 
 This voice doesnt match Omega's character at all!!!
  
  Dr. Eggman (Robotnik)
  
  Mike Pollock-really great- This also makes eggman sound dark and smart. This is also one of the 
 4kids voices that I dont hate. I wouldnt mind if Mike played the role off eggmans voice he's 
 pretty good.
  
  Blaze:
  Bella Hudson-meh.. This voice sometimes lacks in emotion its kinds meh. It sounds kinda serious 
 and Blaze is a serious character its still kinda meh though
  
  Silver:
  Pete Capella-bad This makes Silver sound way to winy and annoying. Its sad too because Silver is 
 pretty original and cool. It can be ok at times but I wish they could have given him a better voice.
 
  
  ALSO heres basically one of the main reasons why this game seems to be to slow THE FRIEKING LOADING 
 SCREENS!!!!!!!! you get these before a mission, after a mission, before a cutscene, after a cutscene, 
 and there each like 15 seconds long WTF?!!
  
  OVERALL- I think the reason why this game sucks so bad is because of an over obsession with grapics 
 and a lack of effort its not all about the crappy graphics its about story and gameplay I'm not 
 saying graphics should be like nes or something , they do play a role but not the most important 
 role, why dont you just do what you can with the graphics but your main concern should be about 
 the gamplay and story. SEGA get your act together!!!
  !!!!!!! DO NOT BUY OR RENT THIS GAME TAKE MY WORD FOR IT, IT REALLY SUCKS.
  
  and dont give 
 me ooh well the game doesn't suck you just suck at it,, it does suck and I got S rank on some of 
 the missions (rouge and knux they were easy :P) and I played through it and believe me it does indeed 
 suck!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  Well I hope you enjoyed the review and I hope I didnt piss to many of you off but this game does 
 suck.
  
  I'm done now.. sorry it was so long ^_^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acolite_art
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jul 21, 2007 12:51 am PT
Review:  I've been a big fan of sonic for a long time, have the comics, played the old genesis games, still 
 have the dreamcast ones as well. This game however... not at all what I had hoped for.
  
  During all the previews they had been showing it seemed to be shaping out to be a good game, then 
 when it was released and saw the reviews I was a bit shocked, could it have been really that bad?
 
  
  So I rented it, and after playing it for about 1 hour, I don't like it. The loading screens are 
 several and not short at all, there are several little annoying glitches in the game, making it 
 frustrating to play the levels. The graphics are below next gen, not that much better then what 
 dreamcast was pumping out.
  
  What ever happened to the Sonic Team that created Sonic Adventure and Sonic Adventure 2, those 
 games were well done and enjoyable. Maybe if Sega decides to develop another Sonic game, they'll 
 spend more time and do a better job of testing and optimizing the game, one can only hope. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: urmean15
Rating: 3
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I see people either loving or hating this game, to the former I have no idea why.
  First off, the graphics. Good, but really, it's a sonic game, it doesn't need to look that good. 
 Sonic 2 looked good for 16 bit, the graphics just overshadow the gameplay. Speaking of gameplay, 
 it's glitchy, boring, the same game engine you've been playing since the Dreamcast. As for sound, 
 the sound tracks are meh. Not amazing, not horrible. What tilts it is the voice acting. God damn 
 you to hell 4kids, god damn you to hell. I was embarrassed by Sonic's voice. God, it haunts me. 
 The palm of my hand met my face hearing it. This game's not even that much fun at all, the storyline 
 is sonic, Robotnik wants stuff asplode, meets some teen-y anime with a love story tied in. It's 
 FF7 all over again people. Overall, I think the sonic series just digs deeper ditches each game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gizem_04
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I will say just one word to describe this game. Amazing . Why do people think bad of this game? 
 I agree that there is lots of loading. But if you are a real Sonic fan you can wait cant you? 
 By the way this is the best Sonic game ever and Sonic looks real.
  
  Graphics
  
  Graphics are very very good and if you go behind a wall Sonic won't look like it disappeared.
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Some stages are hard and some of them are easy
  
  Sound
  
  There is a lot of good music in this game.
  
  Value
  
  You must edit this game. ?????
 
  
  Reviewer's Tilt
  
  This is the best Sonic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rhen_Var
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 7:01 am PT
Review:  Sonic Adventure 1 and 2 Were the first and the best 3D sonic games Ever!
  And we thought this game would bring those good times back! Wrong!
  
  The Levels are well designed 
 and the Graphics are something worth your time. The new Balances are pretty good Sonic is much 
 faster but to some people too but its still awesome to see him run in FULL speed!! Shadow is slower 
 now but he's much stronger. and people who complain about Shadow being slow... He wasnt suppose 
 to match his speed in the first place! Hes the Ultimate Life Form Not the Fastest Thing Alive ! 
 So I agree with the Changes in Shadow's gameplay and thank god they took out the Firearms. the 
 guns just added a crappier gaming experience. The new Character Silver adds new gameplay. Instead 
 of running like Sonic he has Psychic powers like Levitation, Grabbing objects etc and to top it 
 up some of the previous characters in the Sonic series show up and become playable for certain 
 parts of the game. Oh thou the gameplay isnt Bad the Glitches are worse and the glitches make all 
 3 Gameplays Terrible! Damn it! Its the worst part of this game! Plus something worse! I could live 
 with the Glitches BUT THE LOADING TIMES?! Every Town mission has like 4 loading times each! and 
 they arent exactly 'Short'! and the stupid part why does the PS3 have these loading time problems!? 
 I mean the Blu-Ray is suppose to have more Capacity so why in the world does it still have the 
 damn Loading times!? All they seemed to do was convert the DVD to the Blu-Ray and didnt bother 
 doing anything else! They had 3 Months to fix it since they saw the review for the 360 Version! 
 And they did Squat! Damn Sega's gone sooo Lazy! The story here is not soo bad.. the only thing bad 
 about the story is that they added Princess Elise. Some woman who contains some dumb power! What 
 the hell is wrong with an Alien Prince NOT Princess?! I mean thanks to that people think their 
 a damn couple! and the Cutscenes are TERRIBLE quality! But the Intros were FREAKIN AWESOME and 
 the endings were meh....
  
  Overall this game has Potential! It could be great! But if they took out the damn glitches and 
 loading times, Improve the story so there arent any new couples and lastly give players the option 
 to move the Camera! I mean god that was the biggest problem in ALL of the 3D sonic games!
  Sonic fans may love this but non Sonic fans will have to be Cautious. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 1.3
Date: May 30, 2007 6:20 pm PT
Review:  What the hell happened here?
  
  Sonic used to be the best game ever, but this is just a disgrace. Why are they trying to make it 
 an RPG? why does the game have to load every 30 seconds? why can't I change the controls? why can't 
 I change anything but sound? why do the graphics suck ass?
  
  if someone could explain any of these it would be great, the only thing done well was the into 
 video, the rest of the game is slow and sluggish and is defiantly the worst game I have ever played. 
 I can't even compare it to anything, not def jam, not NFS: C, not even Virtuoso is this bad.
  
  Someone get me a god damn laxidiv so I can go **** instead of playing this piece of absolute 
 crap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: minndak10
Rating: 3.1
Date: May 23, 2007 5:51 pm PT
Review:  Ok! I suggest you don't even rent this game! Not even for 50 cents! This game is so horrible it should 
 be all broken and thrown in a fire pit and they should stop making these ones.
  _______________________
  Ok I rented this game before! It's not even worth 50 cents to rent. Maybe 
 a penny or for free! Because seriously! This game just sucks! The worst game of all Sonic games!
 
  _______________________
  Story-The story is split into the three hedgehogs stories. Sonic, Shadow, and Silver. You can play 
 other charcaters like Tails and all that but it is no fun! This person called Mephiles comes down 
 to reign terror down on earth and wants to destroy it! But Sonic and his friends have to stop him! And 
 Sonic gets a lady !WTF?! Because when Sonic almost died it was like Sleeping beauty and the hedgehog! That 
 is so wrong!
  ______________________________
  Gameplay-Don't even ask! It is horrible controls! Tails doesn't even fly straight anymore! The controls 
 are bad! Not to mention that there are TONS and TONS and TONS of glitches and loading screens! So 
 a 2!
  
  Graphics-The graphics are the best out of all the games. But that is how there are so many glitches! They 
 were focusing more on the graphics than gameplay and they make Sonic very slow just so you can 
 see the Graphics of buildings and stuff! They tried to make it like FF graphics! So a 10 though.
 
  
  Sound-Sound wasn't all that good...... It was kinda but it was just so normal not like Sonic at 
 all..... So a 2!
  
  Value-Not worth even 20 minutes or even 10 of my time! I beat this game and it took a whole chunk 
 out of my life! So a 1!
  
  Reviewrs tilt-My suggestion rent it..... No don't even boher looking at the cover! Much better off 
 playing Sonic Rifers and that game is HORRIBLE! So a 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JamesL007
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 22, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I loved sonic the hedgehog, from back in the day of the old Sega Genesis 
 16-bit system. That why it pains me to write a negative review of sonic the hedgehog because I 
 had loved the game since back than but now it seems like sonic has jumped the shark.
  
  When I first heard of a sonic the hedgehog game for the Playstation 3 I was excited about I thought 
 maybe it would incorporate the old sonic with todays new graphics but that is not the case for 
 this game at all. The games starts off with a story that for the most part is give or take, it 
 is loosely written together and does at times make no cents to the old stories we have come to 
 love from sonic and his friends. The opening of the story tells that you are suppose to protect 
 a young girl named Elise, she is the ruler of her people and holds the power to a dangerous weapon 
 that if unleashed can cause nothing but death and destruction across the lands.
  
  Ok and now for the start of the game play in this game is a little sandbox style but not really. 
 Meaning that in the town missions you run around doing little task from the towns people and collecting 
 Silver medals that are placed throughout the level but nothing more. Plus who changed the lead 
 villains name, back in the day it was Dr. Robotnick and now its Mr. Eggman whats up with that 
 if anything it loses the creditability of the villain, meaning would you figure that a somewhat 
 average man could come up with a scheme so grand to take over the world and build giant machines 
 to do so. Probably thinking that it would be a great ideal to change things up but its hard to 
 take him seriously for me. Beside the fact the main villain name has been changed the game falls 
 flat for being a Next-Gen console game. The main difficulty of the game is the camera angle, the 
 camera is the most important of a game and for this one it is a big problem it takes a mind of 
 its own from time to time and will relocate the view to something happening that will distract 
 you from your current objective and probably will cost you some coins in the process. The story 
 mode of the game covers three different characters ranging from Sonic to Shadow and now Sliver 
 the hedgehog and each character has different abilities and strengths to each character. The super 
 speed parts of some levels mean you will be racing through the level at mach speed, meaning if 
 you are not careful you can quickly end the level and have to start all over again. Though out 
 the story you will collect silver coins that for some reason seem to be worthless to the actual 
 story or anything at all, I mean the more of them you collect it seems likes it doesnt unlock 
 anything or give you extra abilities. Now back to the in game aspect of the game you travel around 
 the level trying to achieve the objective of that level but from the camera angles to the loading 
 screens it can be a real problem to do so.
  
  The game has no replay value at all and makes it hard to do a review that can be indifferent of 
 this game. I give this game a 4 out of 10 review because I really did like sonic the hedgehog and 
 found myself playing the mega collection of the sonic games instead and being much happy at that. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superyumi16
Rating: 4.1
Date: May 18, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  When I first got the Sonic the Hedgehog game for the PS3, I was so happy. I thought it was gonna 
 be better than the original. But it wasn't. The only thing good about this game was the colorful 
 text. And maybe the voice acting, but other than that, nothing. Sonic the Hedgehog kept making 
 glitches, and the camera angles were really frustrating. I wished I could've rented this son of 
 a gun first. Now I'm selling it for 10 dollars. I just wanna end this review, I don't even feel 
 like talking about this game that needs to die . I give this game an D- (since I'm so nice) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IsmirZone
Rating: 6.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Its hard to give this game a good review. Not to say a good review as if the game is good, but 
 one that explains its flaws and goods in a way the reader will feel you are honest and dont just 
 hate or are a fan of the game. I had this game for about two months and I have tried hard to play 
 this game over and over thinking I will change my mind about what I think about it.
  
  One thing that I have noticed in Sonic the Hedgehog for the PlayStation 3 and X360 is that it tries 
 to be like Sonic Adventure and Sonic Adventure 2 that ware previously released on Dremacast in 
 the past. The gameplay is way off the course in this game. There are many flows to encounter and 
 deal with. The overall controls are ok as you control Sonic in the worlds. Its when you get in 
 the Acts when the flaws really appear. The hovering attack is poor and inaccurate. Unlike in the 
 previous Sonic Adventure games the hovering is slow. You would hit the button the wait a while, 
 hit again and so on. The option to just tap the button to attack the enemies in the hover attack 
 wont work as it use to. Sonic seems to be stuck or hurt by everything. This is where the so-called 
 speed runs in Sonic are not fun. You can simply start to enjoy a level and just slightly scrape 
 against the wall or an object, and Sonic is stopped dead cold on the spot. Other characters play 
 well but they are not without flaws. Silver is fun but it will take w while to get use to the controls 
 when you need to use his powers. The power is limited on the characters there is a bar at the bottom 
 right hand corner that will indicate how much power you used. Each character has its own side of 
 the story and a role. Some Acts you will partner with another character. Somewhere in mid Act 
 the characters will switch and you will continue the level from that spot. The levels do have checkpoints 
 so if you die you can continue from the last checkpoint. Once you lose all your lives you will 
 start that level from the very beginning. In this game this can be a pain in the @@@. I say this 
 because the game LOADS, AND LOADS, AND LOADS SOME MORE. While you are not playing the Acts there 
 is a town that you will be wondering around. Asking questions and solving things to progress to 
 the next Act. In between the Acts there will be sequential movies that are real time renders in 
 most cases. They tell the story of the characters and are nice to watch. The modes in the game 
 are basic. You have the Story mode when you just follow the story of the character you selected 
 to play. The multiplayer will let you go head to head with you buddy. And then the Time Attack 
 (Act Attack) is where you can replay all the Acts you have passed. I believe that this is the 
 most fan part of the game since you can go back and replay any Act take time and just check them 
 out. You can even do the Boss Battles as well.
  
  Next-Gen a sensitive word within the gaming world now days. It seems as if when you hear it the 
 game must be the best looking thing out there. In case of Sonic the Hedgehog the word Next-Gen 
 does not apply. Visually the game is bright, colorful and fun. What makes this game not a next-gen 
 visually is its noticeable flows that just should not be tolerated in any gamer. Sega, and noticeably 
 did not take the time to test this game nor try to take advantage of the next-gen consoles. The 
 games noticeable objects popup are basically in your face. I can be in a level just turn around 
 and BANG!? Out of nowhere a tree appears in front of me. I have noticed that shadows (not the character) , 
 just appears in an instant in front of you. The world itself has a good draw-distance as you can 
 see mountains, water, and other big objects far away from you. The cameras are awful; it will be 
 in the wrong place in most cases. If you die it will be because the camera was not in the right 
 place when you needed it to be. The speed of the game is smooth unless you have more the five or 
 so enemies on screen, then the game starts to drop frames. The texturing is nice, its not the 
 best but not the worst texturing quality. Characters look very nice, you can say they could look 
 better but they are detailed. Their animations are smooth and accurate. This is why watching the 
 real time cut scenes are fun. If I may have forgotten the game is in 720p Widescreen HD.
  
  Whats that noise? Well it sure sounds familiar. Sonic the Hedgehog brings back some of the Sound 
 FX you have heard before. At the same time the music is nothing that you would remember years from 
 now. The title music is sure to get in your head after a while. The character voice over are ok. 
 I am use to and can adjust to their voices. I have not found any flaws in the sound. Everything 
 sounds as you would expect. I wish Sega would have included old music from the previous game and 
 remixed them to sound new but familiar. If you have a nice 5.1 Dolby Digital sound system set up 
 you will get the best of the sound.
  
  In the end comes down to this. Sonic the Hedgehog is a good game with flaws, flaws that stay in 
 the way of how good this game is. Sega could easily fix these flaws with downloadable patch. The 
 game could have an installation option so that it can eliminate the long loading times. I have 
 tried hard and played over and over to enjoy this game. I find it frustrating and hideous at times. 
 Fans of the series will play it and put up with the bad, but for the rest they will just likely 
 to stay away. $60 is what you would pay MSRP price. Even for the fans of Sonic the Hedgehog a rental 
 is much recommended for this one. For me I will stick with the game since it was my first PlayStation 
 3 game. I am just praying for a patch from Sega to fix the flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frontmaster000
Rating: 4.8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:18 am PT
Review:  I was expecting something quite good, judging on the other sonic games, but I really am dissapointed 
 in this game. The load times are awful, you would expect so much quicker from a console with so 
 much power. Resistance fall of man loads more quickly for a whole level then one cut scene on Sonic 
 the hedgehog. Im not sure if my disc is messed up but some of the intro's have really glitchy sound. 
 I know its nothing to do with the console as all the other games work fine, including blu-ray movies.
 
  I am going to take it back to the shop. Sounds like a good excuse to see if I can get my money 
 back on it or swap it for something much better.
  
  I couldn't disagree with gamespots review. I am a sonic fan to some extent, but this game isn't 
 really acceptable. The DS version was great. Yeah fair play it was in 2D, but I was fine with that 
 as it was quite playable. Bit easy though lol. I just hope if there is another sonic after this 
 'failed one', it will be vastly improved. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mass_Zero
Rating: 3.9
Date: Apr 13, 2007 6:30 am PT
Review:  Before punching you in the face with all the bad details about this game, let's start off with 
 the not-so-bad details. There are any? You ask? Yes, there are: The graphics and sound.
  
  Even I though I think these graphics aren't fit for a PlayStation 3 game, but rather for a PlayStation 
 2 or Wii game, they're not bad. I even enjoyed watching some of the cutscenes and truly wish that 
 Sonic would look like this in all his games. There's one thing I don't like about the graphics 
 though, the shadows. The shadows often look out of order and sometimes even disappear. This should 
 be a no-no for a PlayStation 3 game.
  
  Next up, sound. When I first listened to the OST of the game, I though: Cool! That changed, though. 
 I'm not saying the game has bad music, but in my opinion the music doesn't match the scenery. I 
 expect hard rock that gives you the feeling you're going at super sonic speed yourself, but it 
 seems they forgot this is a Sonic game they were composing music for?
  
  You think I'm harsh after reading the text above? Don't worry, it gets worse. The gameplay is so 
 broken, that it makes the game plain annoying. Don't believe me? I'll give you some examples: You're 
 finally at full speed with Sonic, making the game feel worth it for a bit, then the camera angle 
 unexpectedly changes and you fall of the edge of a cliff/road/whatever. Start over from the last 
 checkpoint. Or take the above example, only this time you bump into a wall. Huh? I though I bumped 
 into a wall, why can't I move anymore? Argh! You might break loose after a minute or so, but you 
 might also have to start over again. Catch my drift? This isn't what I call fun. Even worse is 
 when this occurs while playing as Silver or Shadow. They aren't even fast!
  
  Now that I mentioned Silver and Shadow, I should give you guys some feedback on the super cool 
 unlockable characters... not. As I said, both are slow, really slow. In Silver's case this doesn't 
 matter too much, since his levels aren't aimed towards speed. But in Shadow's case, this is horrible. 
 Shadow should be able to match Sonic's speed, but he feels two times as slow as Sonic in this game. 
 To heal the wounds in your heart, they give you vehicles. Yes! OK, quit the sarcasm. Who ever came 
 up with the idea of putting vehicles in Sonic games? They're no good at all. The wounds in my heart 
 have returned, or rather, they never went away. I could really write a 10 pages long essay about 
 why the unlockable characters and also the additional characters are plain bad, but I won't. Just 
 trust me on this one, they're no good.
  
  This review has gotten pretty long by now, so I think it's time to wrap it up. Thus I present you, 
 my conclusion: Don't buy this game, not even if you're a real Sonic fan, like me. It's just too 
 broken, way too broken. I wasted a good 65 on it, which would've been better off spent on Oblivion: 
 The Elder Scrolls 4. Love me or hate me for writing this review, you know I'm right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YouTube89
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  This games is great. Why do people hate it so much? It's easily the best game in the series. It 
 is, so far, the best game for the PS3.
  
  Gameplay: It's cool, but the stages set up isn't what I expected it to look like. It can also be 
 quite difficult. Silver medal collecting and S-Rank in hard mode is kinda tough.
  
  Graphics: This game is in High Definition, and it also has improved graphics over other 3D sonic 
 games. Sonic looks so real, and if you go behind a wall, it won't look like it disappeared.
  
  Sound: This game has some interesting music and sound. I like the voices in this game better 
 than previous sonic games.
  
  Value: This game is definitely worth buying. It can also be worth playing again.
  
  Reviewer's 
 Tilt: This is the greatest 3D Sonic game ever.
  
  Overall Score: 9.7 (Awesome) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  I know everyone gave this game a low score but you have to realize, this type of game is for the 
 young ones. My little brother loves this game and plays it all of the time. Graphics wise I gave 
 this game a six because the cut-scenes look really good but there are a ton of in-game glitches. 
 In the sound area this game is fairly good and the only problem is the lip-syncing in some parts. 
 In the game-play department, it is what you'd expect from a sonic game with a few minor changes. 
 The new changes are vehicles are included in shadow's levels and in silver's levels you can use 
 telekinesis. The game-play is somewhat of a step-up from previous 3D Sonic games. If you are a 
 fan of the Sonic series you may want to check this out, plus it is a great game for the younger 
 kids. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stl_rams28
Rating: 4.7
Date: Mar 9, 2007 4:43 pm PT
Review:  This game might have been enjoyable if the controls weren't so hideous. For example, you'll find 
 it very difficult to steer the blue hedgehog and the camera certainly doesn't help. The story is 
 a decent one, but isn't very original. Sonic's new adventure takes place in Soleanna, the city 
 of water. The princess of Soleanna is kidnapped by who other than Dr. Egg-man for his own dastardly 
 plans. You use Soleanna as your main hub throughout the story, with many small quests to do. One 
 of Sonic's major drawbacks is the load times. You will most likely spend most of the game staring 
 at a loading screen than actually playing it. Overall, it seems as if this game was rushed and 
 the controls, camera, and the game play hasn't been polished. If this hasn't turned you off yet, 
 and you have your heart set on playing this game, give it a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tails_Prower7
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 29, 2007 4:06 pm PT
Review:  this game wasn't that great, I guess I understand how gamespot could've gave such a bad review. 
 The graphics were great, but the game just played awkword, and The story is alittle confusing.. 
 I mean the Sonic game for the wii was awesome, if u like Sonic games maybe there's a chance that 
 u will like this one, but not a great one. I'm not saying that u shouldn't buy it, all I'm saying 
 is that u should think about reconsidering it.. well, that's about all I'm gonna write for this 
 reveiw, enjoy ur life, and thank u very much for reading 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GreenXMega
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I liked a lot of things about this game, mainly Sonic's speedy levels, Shadow's improved combating, 
 and Shadow's telekenisis powers. The worst things about this game would have to be the camera controls, 
 slowdowns, the ridiculous amount of loading screens between almost every little things, and the 
 replacement of Ryan Drummund as a voice actor for Sonic the Hedgehog with J. Griffith, who can't 
 even keep up with the speedy spirit. Think of this game as a mix of Sonic Adventure with Sonic 
 Adventure 2, add a bunch of improved graphics and some frustrations, as well as some crappy town 
 missions. But, the action stages totally make up for those even if parts of a few levels I've played 
 really suck, like having to push that ball as Silver to a hole at the end of a hallway across a 
 bunch of annoyingly placed holes, and the snowboarding part of the White Acropolis.
  
  The good: Some nice action stages
  HIgh replay value due to the Time Trials mode
  Hard mode 
 is refreshingly challenging
  Shadow's improved attack scheme
  Silver's psychokinesis powers
  Silver's first level
  All of Sonic's levels
  Sonic's chaos 
 emerald upgrade abilities (especially the speed one)
  Nice graphics
  Awesome intro
  Panning the camera left and right is mapped to the L and R2 buttons
  Decent music
  
  The 
 bad: No Sixaxis controls on the PS3 version
  Obnoxious quantity and length of loading screens
  Suck-ass voice over (with a few exceptions, 
 particularly Mephiles's)
  
  Overall: It can never be as good as Sonic and the Secret Rings, but I'll stick to this game as 
 long as I don't own a Wii...... or another PS3 video game
  Atrocious town missions
  
  I didn't hate the game, but I totally didn't love it either. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SonicNinja976
Rating: 5.4
Date: Jul 13, 2007 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Here Goes The Sonic Ninja With The Sonic Ninja Review On Sonic The Hedgehog For The PS3. Here The 
 Big Question Thats Been Going On The Forums, Is The PS3 Version Of Sonic Better Then Xbox 360 Version? 
 
  And The Answer Is: No! Its The Same Game. And Since It Is, I Copyed My 360 Review.
  
  First, The Bad:
  The Graphic's Are Not Really That Spectacular. You'll Notice In The Cinematic 
 Cut-Scenes, That The Polygons On The Character Models Are Not Smooth At All.
  The Controles Are Not Really An Improvement Neither.
  It Just Feels Broken.
  It Seems Like 
 In Every New Sonic Game, The Controls Keep Getting Worse And Worse.
  Also, Knuckles Punch Attack Barely Have An Impact, Unlike Heroes .
  The Story Was Really Stupid, 
 Confusing, And Prooly Put Together.
  But The Biggest Disapointment Is The Constant Loading Times In Between Action Stages And Town Stages.
 
  
  Now That That's Out Of The Way. Lets Get To The Good Stuff.
  The Action Stages Are Pretty Fun To Play.
  Sonic Still Has The Speed You Would Come To Expect 
 In A 3D Sonic Game.
  Shadow Was Kind Of Dull. Because There Was No Guns.
  Silver Was Interesting With His Mind Powers.
  And Thats Pretty Much It.
  
  Overall, Sonic 
 Fans Will Love This Game. Haters Will Start Lighting There Torches. And Everybody Else That Lost 
 Touch With The Franchise Will Simply Not Care.
  Even Though This Was Enjoyable For Me, It Could Have Been Better.
  Just Rent It, Because Some 
 Of You Curious Gamers Might Find Something Special About This Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: collum1987
Rating: 4.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is the latest game in the series and why not release it on the next generation 
 consoles.
  
  January, PlayStation 3 owners got the latest offering when it was released and despite it looking 
 brilliant, its a complete different story when you boot this game.
  
  You play as three characters in this game. Sonic is your first and only offering and you have to 
 unlock Shadow and Silver's stories by crossing paths in the game, brings back memories when I had 
 to do the same requirements in Sonic Adventure.
  
  Sonic offers pretty much the gameplay as he does in the previous 3D games, speeding past worlds, 
 blowing up enemies, etc. Yet when you play for the first time, this is where the highly anticipated 
 game begins to get its low score.
  
  In Sonic Adventure, you had Adventure Maps. They worked pretty well for the gamer as you looked 
 around for clues, new items, shops and links in the story. In this game, you get a loading time 
 consisting around 20 seconds, these loading times after a while get very irratating and will fustrate 
 when doing a mission and if you happen to screw up the mission, you have to grow through the whole 
 thing again PLUS the loading times.
  
  In Sonic Adventure, you didnt have no bother of any missions apart from using techniques to get 
 to places further in the story and finding keys within the maps to unlock new levels. In this game, 
 you have really silly missions which consume time and also are just stupid. Doesn't fit with the 
 game at all because Sonic's on this desperate chase for the Princess and get to the next level, 
 he has to play hide and seek in one of the missions JUST to get to the next level and get rings. 
 I feel that the whole missions are totally uneccessary and stupid and ruin the game.
  
  Now onto gameplay, what I liked about previous Sonic 3D titles was that you could play almost every 
 character in their own adventure or with them like in Heroes and the Adventure games. This game 
 you have three Hedgehogs but they have their differences, Silver's gameplay is the only new thing 
 that this game offers and even after a while, it gets repetitive and boring.
  
  Sonic's gameplay is okay, pretty much the same but with a few noticeable differences, you play 
 with Elise on several occassions and you get an ability for the levels which is a shield but it 
 aint that great. Sonic's gameplay is bad when you do the High Speed Levels for example Wave Ocean 
 and Radical Train, it is absolutely difficult to control and the fact the camera is screwed up 
 in this title to show the sensation of speed which you can't enjoy makes the possibilties of getting 
 a Rank S near impossible or very difficult.
  
  Shadow's is similar to the last game, Shadow the Hedgehog. Minus the guns thank god, Shadow runs 
 slightly slower than Sonic but has this combo during a homing attack, a nice addition but doesn't 
 feel that good when executing the attack. Shadow uses vehicles like in the last game but I really 
 hated Shadow the Hedgehog for that and wish they just made Shadow like they did in Sonic Adventure 
 2 and Heroes, I didnt have a problem with that and he sounds like an emo ****
  
  Silver's gameplay as I have said already is a new offering to the Sonic series. He has physic powers 
 and accompyed by Blaze the Cat who debuted in Sonic Rush. Silver's gameplay is good but the whole 
 new physic gameplay sensation wears off after a while and he is slow to move, unless he moved as 
 fast as Shadow and Sonic, I would have liked Silver more.
  
  Saying that, you get to play the other characters such as Tails, Knuckles, Rouge, Omega, Amy and 
 Blaze but don't expect anything special. Tails moves soooooo slow and most of the characters apart 
 from Blaze play terribly.
  
  The gameplay in general is bad. The camera is moved closer to the characters which causes a lot 
 of problems for the gamer. You can't see the surroundings well and it ruins the game bigtime. The 
 other problems to kick this game where the sun don't shine is the consistant bugs, you could be 
 on the highway to a Rank S, very difficult on some levels but then you could just die or screw 
 up in a big way that you will lose a Rank because of it. On top of that, the loading times are 
 still intact and by now, will have really annoyed the gamer.
  
  I can say a few things which are good about this game but won't earn it a good score. The Voice 
 Acting is still by 4Kids (WHY!?!) but in this game, Mike Pollock who voices Eggman does a brilliant 
 job of making Eggman who he is, a badguy!! I miss the other voice actors SEGA got rid off, Ryan 
 Drummond and co. would have done a better job in this game.
  
  The Soundtrack for this game is very good, brings back memories of the old 16-bit days. The Story 
 and Plot for the game is really good also but is ruined by the terrible gameplay this game has 
 to offer.
  
  The bad thing about the story is the end of it, Sonic dies lol but it uses the VERY OLD Super Sonic 
 thing at the end of the game, I don't know about you but that has got very old and I would like 
 to see better gameplay of Super Sonic.
  
  PLAYSTATION 3 VS. XBOX 360 VERSION
  
  In all, I havent seen both properly in HD but I have noticed in the PS3 version, the frame rate 
 slows down when in Soleanna and in certain parts of the game where the 360 version doesnt. The 
 cut scenes where the game is in engine the frames per seconds in the 360 version is 60fps and the 
 PS3 version is 50fps. The PS3 is capable so I don't understand where it goes wrong.
  
  As for best version, I'm going for the XBOX 360 version as it performs better and the fact that 
 the PS3 version didnt take advantage of any decent extras during the delay.
  
  The PlayStation 3 version could have seriously benefited from Game Data Utility, a feature in some 
 PS3 titles which allow parts or all of the game to be saved onto the HDD which is included in the 
 PS3. Because of the loading times in the 360 version, this feature would have been brilliant, despite 
 it having its bugs, the feature which would tackle loading times easily would have got an average 
 review and better score but there is bad stuff about this game and that is why it has the score.
 
  
  -Good-
  
  Brilliant Graphics for the next generation Sonic
  A good storyline which reminded me of Sonic Adventure
  Voice acting is good, Mike Pollock is 
 outstanding
  
  -Bad-
  
  Bugs are all over the gameplay
  Loading times are just unacceptable
  Unneccessary Missions when in Soleanna
  Amigo's gameplay 
 is just rubbish
  NO GAME DATA UTILITY - really needs it in this game.
  
  Overall
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog is a total letdown, commonly promoted as being a reinvention of the franchise. 
 It actually doesn't meet that reinvention and does a terrible job of offering good gameplay and 
 is one of the worst Sonic games released 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eric_VA
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 20, 2007 8:10 pm PT
Review:  If you like the Sonic Games, then this one will take it up a few levels, a VERY VERY great game, 
 i have no idea what Game Spot is talking about .... 4.2? thats just crazy, i thought there was 
 some Pros here that reviews these games? Anyway, I Like this game for the fact that you can't get 
 tired of it, it's Always something to do, and the Graphics Are out of this world on the PS3, it 
 is very nice, and the Gameplay ... it takes a few mins to learn ALL the peoples moves and what 
 they do, and how to Do it but after that you will be a pro in no time, it's a very fun game for 
 the Kids, or if your a Life Time Sonic Fan, it's a great game for the Kid at heart, atlest for 
 me it is.
  
  There is Some bugs in this game, but what game Does NOT have any Bugs? it's stuff you can live 
 with, nothing thats going to make you Take It Back, or go Crying to Sega that their game sucks.
 
  
  I Love this game, and from what i have played of it, I would Tell anyone who has a PS3 to get this 
 game, it's a fun Laid-Back game that i'm sure everyone would Enjoy, if they Really Played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vip3r666
Rating: 3.3
Date: Feb 19, 2007 7:11 pm PT
Review:  Well, I guess the devil was controlling my brain when I went into Best Buy and picked up my copy 
 of Sonic the Hedgehog. I've played the Sega Genesis version and it grew up on me. I still play 
 it sometimes when I have nothing to do. My advice is rent it first, although that might be the 
 worst $7 you spend also. First things first, the graphics aren't worthy of the ps3. It looks like 
 theres no bitmap texturing, no advanced lighting, no bump maps, no nothing. It is HD, but thats 
 probably all it has over ps2 graphics. Secondly, the camera is absolutely horrible. It's jumpy, 
 it does weird things, and it never shows you what you want. Assuming you can get over those two 
 HUGE disappointments, theres another one in store. The storyline attempts to create a non-linear 
 plot, but fails miserably. I have not yet beaten the game, simply because I cant play it for more 
 than an hour before I want to bash my head in. AvOID THIS GAME AT ALL COSTS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sammogriffin
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2007 6:19 pm PT
Review:  i love this game no matter what people thinks, and besides other may not agree with me but who 
 cares see! you have people all over the world that are sonic fans really enjoy it, because this 
 is the kind of sonic they've been waiting for so there's no need on making it look like it's just 
 a complete frod cuz it's not. i think people who critizie games too much, they must contradict 
 themselves more often. i mean it's easy to rate games at certain ratios, but if you really play 
 something rather than making fun of it because it didn't do all that good or raise the market people 
 should at least judge on how the developers did and not just say, this game won't make it because 
 it stinks! grow up people please! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxx9
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 23, 2007 2:53 pm PT
Review:  Well , i have played the PS3 version and for me it was a very good game with some technical bugs 
 but it's playable and the gameplay is sometimes annoying just like the camera but if you play with 
 it alot , you get used to it and then the game is great ...
  
  The graphics are colorful and really nice just like the sound but sometimes the sound is a little 
 strange , but i like it ...
  
  The levels are long sometimes and thats why the replay is not so fun al the time but you can play 
 it again with pleasure ... :)
  
  The story is original, specially at the beginning but sometimes a little strange again but it's 
 good enough ...
  
  For me it is a great game and even for the sonic fans but if you only look to the technical side 
 of a game then it's not your game ...
  
  so , i think that 4.2 is to low for this game And don't always believe or listen to people that 
 review this game and give it points like 2.5 or 1.5 because that's just ridiculus , some people 
 just write stupid review to 'take' down a game and then give it very weak points , so don't read 
 review that have only 1.5 or below 4 points ....
  
  And another thing , why gets the PS3 version 1 point less then the X360 version ? everybody's says 
 that the PS3 version is sharper and better ... are the gamespot reviewers X360 fanboys or what 
 ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: framauro13
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 17, 2007 9:53 pm PT
Review:  This game is horrible. That's all you need to know. The Gamespot Review pretty much sums it up. 
 The loading times (and their frequency) are absolutely horrendous. The gameplay is awful, the graphics 
 are sub-par by Game Cube standards, the voice acting is terrible, and the story line just flat 
 out blows. It's basically every Anime cliche combined into one story line, sprinkled with Sonic 
 characters, resulting in one of the most God-awful games I've played in a LOOONG time. The controls 
 are ridiculous; Sonic's direction control is incredibly sensitive. Good luck collecting all of 
 the rings once you get hit as the speed of Sonic mixed with the over-sensitivity of the analog 
 sticks results in you running around most of the rings as they slowly fade away. The game doesn't 
 even implement all of the buttons on the controller. The over-sensitive controls mixed with horrible 
 camera angles results in many over-the-cliff or in-the-water deaths. I could go on, but I'd max 
 out the character limit on this text box.
  
  If anything good comes from this game, it'll be the fact that it will make a good conversation 
 piece when people ask why its being used as a coaster for their drink on my coffee table.
  
  It's a real shame that such a great character and franchise like Sonic have come to this. Save 
 your money and time and buy something else. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vuittonman
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 16, 2007 5:02 pm PT
Review:  I didnt like it. way to many load screens. The real fun is when Sonic Runs really fast. Thats it. 
 You dont get to take care of Chao which stinks... Cute little Fellas. Sonic Adventure Battle Two 
 is way better. The Graphics and All are Ok but the Cut Scenes try to look nice but are just as 
 nice as Kingdom Hearts for the PS2. Rent this game its not worth the Money. Im a fan of Sonic Games 
 this is just Depressing. I was bored with Resistance online and i had nothing else to do but play 
 this. I didnt. Im just waiting for the return date so i can return it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KH2FaN12
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 14, 2007 5:30 am PT
Review:  Sonic the Hedgehog is a colorful and what seems to be a fun game when advertised. I rented it because 
 i knew how other recent sonic games havent been that good. I am so glad i didnt shell out my last 
 60 bucks on it because this game is truely horrible. It is very tedious when you race and the town 
 missions are just stupid. You have to save every 5 seconds in order to not have to start over. 
 You can barely be another character only once or twice in races. The only good thing about this 
 game is the graphics. The levels are beautifully drawn and this is why most people are attracted 
 to this game. Don't pay 60 for a lousy game. Instead save that money for upcoming great games like 
 Virtua Fighter, The Elder Scrolls, or NBA Street Homecourt. These are just a few of the fabulous 
 games that you can get that are actually worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crash1968
Rating: 4.2
Date: Feb 13, 2007 5:17 pm PT
Review:  I think, no strike that... I know I want my money back!
  I, ve never seen anything this bad since quake 2, was first released. I want my money back or they 
 should have a recall .This is the biggest letdown of a game i have ever seen. WARNING DO NOT BUY 
 THIS GAME UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES!! If you want to play sonic you'd better dust off the old genesis. Get 
 the hint yet? One big RIP OFF. Where's the quality control people? were they all asleep ?maybe they 
 were playing XBOX orWii... Did they actually play this garbage before they put it out on shelves? Maybe 
 they could admit its garbage give everyone their money back plus a different title of their choice 
 for the 20.00 in gas we all wasted going to get the piece of bleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STHedgehog85
Rating: 7.3
Date: Feb 10, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Ok, I am not going to vent about how much professional video game reviewers pretty much hate all 
 3-D Sonic games, or the fact that they loved the Dreamcast Sonic Adventure but trashed the Gamecube 
 version, or the fact that they never offer Sonic Team any advice on how to make Sonic games better 
 or how to make a truly great 3-D Sonic game. Oops, looks like I just did, but I think that they 
 really ripped up STH for PlayStation 3 (have not played the 360 version) . To be fair, the game 
 does have some flaws. The first noticeable one is the control. I guess in an effort to make the 
 game more realistic, Sonic Team changed the way characters walk and run on surfaces to match the 
 angle of the ground. It works most of the time, but little glitches such as Sonic running at an 
 angle if you place him between the street and the sidewalk in the city happen here and there. The 
 support characters seem to not move characteristically like they have in past games and, except 
 for speed, they move along pretty much the same way and feel generic. Also a few times as I was 
 playing as Sonic and I had limited control over him because of his speed and the camera angle, 
 he ran right off the track, costing me a life. They should have just stayed with the Sonic Adventure 
 2 engine. It kind of feels like you are playing a beta version. The camera also is hard to control, 
 especially when you are next to a wall. This really isn't a new problem, but it is annoying that 
 ST hasn't fixed it after all this time. Also, as far as graphical glitches go, things like whole 
 buildings and mountains seem to pop-up, especially in Soleanna; I don't understand why this is 
 a problem especially on a system like the PS3.
  
  Those are the only problems with the game as far as the technical aspect. One of the great things 
 about this game is the graphics. I have never seen more beautiful in-game character models, Sonic 
 game or not. Real-time lighting effects and exceptional animation in the cutscenes bring a lot 
 of life to the characters. It takes me a second to figure out if a cutscene is in-game or prerendered 
 in some cases. The CG is almost as good as Final Fantasy VII: Advent Children when it comes to 
 the humans (pretty much Princess Elise and Robotnik) , and the non-humans look great but a little 
 out of place when placed next to humans. The environments are not bland as the GameSpot review 
 said, rather they have a toned-down color palette to give them a more realistic look, and it works 
 very well for the tone of the game. The story-telling is better than it has been in recent Sonic 
 games, and the choice to stick with Sonic, Shadow, and Silver as the main characters certainly 
 beats having to play through as six or twelve different characters. Each character has a different 
 focus as far as gameplay, and each is fresh and fun (with Sonic, of course, being the funnest) . 
 If Shadow had played as well in his own game as he did in this one, his game would have been a 
 whole lot better. Silver is slower, but adds a new layer of depth by taking advantage of the Havok 
 physics engine that fits in great with the gameplay. The ability to watch all of the cutscenes 
 and listen to all of the music is a nice bonus too. Speaking of which, this soundtrack has some 
 really good tunes, especially Sonic's theme and certain parts of the Chaos City level. The storyline 
 does have a few corny moments, but there were also some scenes that had a lot of emotion and made 
 you care about Elise and her plight as the young ruler of Soleanna. Each hedgehog is at his finest 
 in this game as far as the story goes. The ending was not as climactic as, say, Sonic Heroes, but 
 it still was pretty satisfying.
  
  Sonic the Hedgehog, while it did not revolutionize the series as I has hoped it would, did add 
 Silver, a whiny but worthwhile addition to the cast, and with him a new layer of gameplay (I simply 
 love throwing giant steel boxes at robots, as well as their own missiles) and brought Sonic up 
 to a new theatrical and story-telling level. It is, and will remain, one of my favorite Sonic games 
 yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jvwitness
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2009 12:23 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe people rate this game so highly. Ok I have had a lot of fun playing this game, 
 but the reality is that the game has too many flaws to validate an 8+ rating. I can't touch a wall 
 apparently because I'll freeze for a while; I can t have an entire level loaded when I start a 
 level; it has to load mid-level sometimes 3 times!
  
  The game itself when you have finally loaded is a lot of fun (said that already) The mach speed 
 zones may coax a swear word out of some gamers but they are my favorite parts. You WILL get game 
 overs at these parts, but I still like to play them. The snowboarding parts are just broken, plain 
 and simple. After a perfect boarding mechanic in Sonic Adventure 2 and Sonic Riders, Sega and Sonic 
 Team decide to shatter it to pieces and replace it with a stupid excuse for controls
  
  The new hedgehog's, Silver's, unique game play and the character change mid-level provides a good 
 amount of variety and a change of pace, though Tails is really gimped out in this game. Shadows 
 game play is really fun and is a good twist on the Sonic gameplay is my favorite.
  
  The multiplayer of this game is the best part. ONE LOADING SCREEN. The cooperative team play is 
 so much fun and can be frustrating at the second level, but the other 6 are worth it. Battle is 
 fun, but Silver can be cheap despite the fact that he is slow. He can hold you for as long as he 
 doesn't run out of power or attempt to pick something else up. I have sat and waited until someone 
 finished half the level as Silver before I was allowed to move because that person just ducked 
 around enemies until he had to fight.
  
  In the end its a keeper to me. (yea I'm a bit of a blind Sonic fan)
  I can see the many hours 
 that will be spent in multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dvader654
Rating: 4.8
Date: Feb 9, 2007 12:18 am PT
Review:  I have been a Sonic fan all my life. I have loved nearly all the Sonic games including Sonic Adventure 
 1 and 2 and Heroes. When a next gen Sonic game was announced I was ecstatic, hey it looked great 
 at the time. Somewhere along the whole development process for this game something went horribly 
 wrong, the game that was released feels unfinished and its near broken.
  
  Like the Sonic Adventure titles, this game not only puts you in the shoes of the blue hedgehog 
 but a whole slew of his friends. The game is split up by three main characters, Sonic, Silver and 
 Shadow each providing their own twist to the gameplay. Sonic is of course all about speed, Silver 
 is slower paced and more of a platformer, and Shadow uses vehicles. At different points in the 
 game you switch to other characters, the usual suspects like Tails, Knuckles and Amy show up along 
 with others. There are 10 stages in the game, and each time you replay the stage with a different 
 character the stage is altered enough to feel different each time. Sounds good right, yes on paper 
 this game should work but actually playing it is a different story.
  
  The gameplay is simply a sloppy mess, there is no polish at all, it feels like we got a beta version 
 of the game. Sonic does not control as well as his Adventure counterpart, he feels slower and more 
 out of control. In fact the whole game is extremely slow, there are brief moments where you watch 
 Sonic run quickly around a loop but you are not controlling the action at all. Remember how in 
 SA2 you can speed through a stage, chaining enemies, finding the route that give you skill points, 
 well that has all gone. There is no skill based score system in the game, your score is determined 
 by time and rings, plus the usual points you get for hitting enemies. The funny thing is that you 
 get a radical every once and a while for hitting one of those rainbow rings so it seemed like there 
 was some score system in place but it never got fully realized. Chaining enemies gets you nothing, 
 going a harder route gets you nothing, not even the ring chaining from the demo made it to the 
 game. Getting high scores in SA2 was one of my favorite aspects of that game, but its not in the 
 game but I seriously think the game was designed with that type of score system in mind.
  
  Many times in a Sonic level you are forced to fight enemies. In the Adventure games enemies were 
 usually just obstacles in your path normally a quick hit was enough to take them out and you were 
 on your way. The enemies in this game just stand in you path, there are only a few types and they 
 always come in bunches. One moment you are blazing along with Sonic and the next a group of five 
 of these robots are in your way. To kill them you just hit X over and over and Sonic will slowly 
 attack each one, it destroys the pacing of the levels. They offer no challenge, no reward, they 
 just seem to be placed there just for the sake of adding obstacles to your path. Then there are 
 the glitches, to be fair the Adventure games had their share of camera woes and strange deaths 
 but this game takes it to a new level. At times you may hit a spring and it will just send you 
 off the stage, or when you run along side a wall you will just fall for no reason. I have seen 
 characters get caught in walls, I've seen the camera totally flip out, and I have even seen Shadow 
 in a vehicle just get sucked down into the ground. Each character in the game has a set of skills, 
 which can be upgraded in a store; some of these skills seem broken. One such skill allows Sonic 
 to become small, while small you can continuously jump up into the air, you never have to come 
 down, you can literally float above the whole stage. Why is this so broken, heck there are even 
 skills that are mentioned in the instruction manual that are not in the game, how much more evidence 
 is needed to know this game was not finished.
  
  There are moments in a Sonic level where he speeds up , essentially making him go forward on his 
 own and you have to steer him. Controlling Sonic is a nightmare during these segments. Any little 
 movement can send you off the stage and anything you touch hurts you. The only way to stay on track 
 seemed to be to ring dash but even that easy skill is a glitchy mess, you will see Sonic almost 
 teleport from one set of rings to another, some times you will just dash into a wall. Jumping is 
 terrible; you can't change the direction of the jump in air so if you are slightly at an angle 
 prepare to watch Sonic jump his way off the level. Almost all the characters have their own issues. 
 Tails controls like a drunk bee, good luck getting him to fly straight. Oh and his ring bomb attack 
 is just horrendous. Knuckles and Rouge's climbing ability is basically broken; they can attach 
 themselves to any wall (actually it looks like the float along side the wall instead of digging 
 into it) and just climb up, many times you just climb to areas not intended for exploring so the 
 camera will just flip out, or you will just fall off, or you will get stuck and sort of just bounce 
 around. Oh and I have to mention the snow boarding segment, what the hell happened with that. Instead 
 of the board going down the mountain by its own momentum, you have to press forward for it to move 
 down the hill and at any moment you can stop it and change directions with tank like movement, 
 its horrible! Silver controls well mainly since his game is slower paced. He uses telekinesis to 
 throw objects around, it serves many uses in his game. So while the controls are solid enough his 
 game feels uninspired. They all have the same pattern, which is to do a few platforming jumps and 
 then fight a group of enemies to open the next path. Problem is fighting enemies is not engaging 
 at all, it just gets monotonous. Plus his game is home to the most ill conceived puzzle in the 
 history of gaming, this one puzzle will introduce you to new levels of torture you never knew existed.
 
  
  Shadow controls a bit slower than Sonic but he has the same homing attack. His game is a weird 
 mix of Sonic style quickness with vehicle riding. He rides a jeep, a bike, a hand glider and a 
 hovercraft, they are a bit loose in the controls but its playable. Many times though the vehicles 
 are not even necessary or in the case of the hand glider its just boring to use, I bet you can 
 leave the controller alone and you will get past those segments just fine. I'm surprised I got 
 this far without mentioning the single worst aspect of the game, the area that makes you want to 
 take a hammer and smash the disc into pieces, the city areas. The city is so uninspired, SA1's 
 city was light years more detailed and realized that this mess. In these segments you wander around 
 this ugly looking area, usually aimlessly due to not having a full map, and look for your next 
 objective, which is most often than not a stage entrance. In the city you will find pedestrians 
 that say something that is pointless to the game, some will guide you and some will offer you a 
 side mission, a side mission FROM HELL! Welcome to the loading screen, get familiar with it, learn 
 to love it cause you two will be spending a lot of time with each other. See, this game needs to 
 load for nearly 15 seconds just for one line of dialogue then load another 20 seconds just to start 
 a mission and the same process is repeated if you die or complete the mission. The side missions 
 are mostly terrible, some have you just battling a small group of enemies, others you race around 
 the city, they are just not fun. One of them basically tells you to repeat numbers, thats the 
 whole mission and it needs to load after every question, so its like 15 minutes of loading for 
 1 minute of playing. Worst part is that the game actually forced you to play some of these garbage 
 side missions to enter a level. The load times are so bad its clear the developers did not optimize 
 the game; there is something wrong in this area. The load times are prevalent all over the game, 
 even in the main stages you need to load 2 or 3 times. Boss fights don't fare well either, they 
 range from boring to just plain annoying. The Silver boss fight needs to go down as the biggest 
 turd boss fight in history. Many boss fights are pattern fights; problem is these patters take 
 a minute to develop just so you can get one hit in. None of them are necessarily hard, just tedious.
 
  
  Presentation wise the game is actually very good. It looks decent for a next gen game, some of 
 the stages are very pleasing to eye. The sound is classic sonic but the music is mostly forgettable. 
 The story is very ambitious for a Sonic game; it deals with time travel, a princess and an evil 
 being. The CGI cutscenes are beautiful, so the story gets the golden treatment, too bad the gameplay 
 didn't. Still it gets odd for a Sonic game, the princess and Sonic being in love is just plain 
 weird.
  
  What makes me angry is that deep within this pile of feces is a good game. Many of the stages are 
 well designed, if the game only controlled as well as Sonic Adventure these stages would be very 
 fun to play. But there was no attention paid to polishing the game up, it feels like an unfinished 
 game. Just look at the old E3 demos, that is the exact same game you get, why were there no improvements 
 done, in fact some features were taken out. Some where along the line the development of Sonic 
 fell apart. If you play SA1 or 2 and then play this game you will immediately feel the difference. 
 You can find some fun in the game, but sadly I can't get past the fact that this game is unfinished, 
 there is no excuse for releasing a game in this kind of state. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jin_sonic0606
Rating: 9.1
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog is a fun game. It is way better than the Xbox 360 version. Three of the characters 
 are kind of annoying to play with like Amy, Tails, and Omega but the other characters are great 
 to play with. The only thing that bothers me is the loading. This game would be better if the loading 
 didn't took about 15 to 20 seconds to load and if there was less glitches. The game should be reviewed 
 again by Gamespot because i don't think 4.2 is an accurate review. In conclusion Sonic The Hedgehog 
 is a great, fun game and it deserves better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackGuilmon
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 8, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  It's been two months and what dose ST have for us? Nothing new, hardly anything improved. I can 
 honestly say this game had much potential, but due to Sonic Team's laziness, it fell very short. 
 The only differences are slightly shorter loading times, some longer, less lag in most areas, new 
 glitches like the instand win glitch, more pop-up, and out of place shadows. Even with these differences, 
 it still suffers from the same fatalities as the 360 version.
  
  There are still many loading screens, glitches, camera scew-ups, slowdown, cluncky controls, and 
 the same fell of unfinishedness. Even the well know Knuckles/Rouge climbing glitch still exists. 
 Though the game is terrible when it comes to quality, there is still much fun to be had. The graphics, 
 while not spectacular by 360 or PS3 standards, are actually pretty good considering it stars talking 
 animals. Also, the characters are pretty fun to play as also. Sonic's levels have a great scense 
 of speed when going through boosters, loops, and mach speed zones. Shadow is surprisingly mor fun 
 to play as with his cool vehicles and neat Chaos powers. Since I love to play Destroy All Humans 
 2 so much, Silver was my overall favorite to play as. As for the Amigo characters, the most fun 
 ones are Blaze, Rouge, Omega, and Tails. Knuckles and Amy are meh , but you might enjoy them I 
 guess.
  
  The story has got to be the best one in Sonic histoty. Ironicly enough, he plays the least biggest 
 role in the stroy, while Shadow and Silver steal alot of the spot light. *SPOILERS*
  
  
  Sonic basically saves and recaptures the princess numorus times, Silver must stop the demonic Iblis, 
 and Shadow must stop his dark side Mephiles from fusing with Iblis and destroying the world. Speaking 
 of the baddies, the bosses are pretty cool in this game, possibly the most challenging yet. One 
 of the most enjoyable has to be Egg Wyvern. However, because of the bad camera, you will probably 
 end up fighting IT more than the actual boss.
  
  The levels too are pretty enjoyable as well. They are long and provide a decent challange, but 
 that's only because of the many pits and game flaws which may make your experience less enjoyable.
 
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Overall, I still put this game at love or hate staticse, but I have lost much faith in Sonic Team 
 since they hardly did anything to this version of the game. Id really suggest renting this if anything. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nameless_99
Rating: 1.6
Date: Feb 7, 2007 12:13 pm PT
Review:  Sonice was the main reason for Sega to become a popular gaming company in the 90s , but with this 
 game i think they are trying to push fans away of the series.
  
  except the introduction movie , everything else in the game is wrong , from the graphics which 
 doesnt use any thing of the xbox360 powers (or the ps3 powers neither !) , to the nightmare of 
 the gameplay , awful camera , horrible movment and running , and the action in the game is disappointing 
 from the first stupid town to the waste first stage, which is a poor duplicate of sonic adventure 
 1 on the dreamcast and game cube .
  
  belive it or not , this game doesnt worth trying , thinking , waiting , or doesnt even worth to 
 be a game on the new gen consoles , and i belive the main reason is that sonic team wasnt the creator 
 of this (game..) , i hope to see a muuuuuuuuuuch better game on the wii soon (sonic and the secret 
 rings) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrideInDream
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 6, 2007 9:04 pm PT
Review:  this game is kinda good.. it has a good movie graphic but the gameplay graphic is not so good... 
 the gamplay for this is cool although there quite a lot of problem like when your going fast and 
 trying to destroy the enemy the gameplay turn slow... i don't know wether it was to be design like 
 this or not but it's distrubing for me... hard to control sonic also especially when your running 
 fast it's hard to turn left or right... i usually crash the wall... the stages are quite difficult 
 for me... it took me a couple of time to pass one stage... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lhardwick692
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  this game pretty well had the same problems as the 360 version did other than that its a pretty 
 fun game. kind of gets frustrating when camera angles get out of whack -- but even gears of war -- as 
 good as it was-has problems with the camera-one move too close and the camera moves to a different 
 angle than what you wanted... so rent it if you doubt you like it there are places to rent everything 
 everywhere. plus the load times are too bad but can use a little work just like the 360 version. but 
 it looks crisper more detailed and with the ps3 controller its a sure fun game. try it you may like 
 it once you get used to the controls 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shade_th14
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 5, 2007 3:32 pm PT
Review:  The minute I started playing this game I noticed that the free roam areas have no guidance whatsoever. 
 The first few minutes of the game you're left wondering where the heck am I supposed to go , a 
 hint says go to the beach but you can't get there and you need a power up. So I spent forever trying 
 to figure out where this power up was. When I finally found it, I was ready to start the game. 
 Unfortunately I was disappointed because the controls were poor, and when you enter the speed zones 
 for the first time you're treated to unfair deaths. People say the zones require skills they actually 
 require better programming. Some levels would've been better off if the speed zones had been left 
 out. The amigo's are also a pain in the game, their controls are worse than the main characters, 
 sometimes they are even unresponsive.
  
  Graphically the game isn't spectacular either. In the Wave Ocean level you'd think a huge whale 
 would cause a huge wave unfortunately Sega decided to make pathetic little water sprays. Despite 
 what Sega may say, this game isn't pushing any limits, its more of a jumbled up game. Sonic fans 
 may get a little enjoyment out of the game, some elements were fun. I enjoyed some Sonic levels 
 and other character levels. So yeah I did like some of it, but the glitches simply ruined the game. 
 Sometimes it's impossible to jump off a wall when playing as Knuckles or Rouge and sometimes when 
 you're grinding on a rail. One character I must say that was the best to play as is Silver. His 
 levels and controls also have there faults but there's no doubt in my mind that he plays the over 
 all best while at the same time still having hiccups here and there.
  
  If you're a fan of rent this game, other than that I wouldn't recomend buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spaction3
Rating: 2.2
Date: May 12, 2007 7:54 am PT
Review:  I am just going to keep this short as I already reviewed this game before, I'm just doing this 
 to express disappointment. All this delay and Sega had not really fix anything, all the stuff that 
 made this game bad and broken are still there. Still bad Controls, still so-so music in certain 
 areas, still nasty voice acting, still some glitches that kill, and still a bad camera. Why did 
 Sega even bother releaseing this for the PS3 as well? And the ever still loading screen still excists. 
 Also another things that bugs me is Sonic's look in this game, it carries less of the 2D charm 
 then it did in Sonic Adventure to games before Next Gen
  
  I just hope Sonic and the Secret Rings will be good, so far it looks promising in gameplay, camera, 
 the music sounds interesting, and even Jason Griffith's voice acting sounded decent for once (dispite 
 the fact that his voice still creeps me out to no end) . I would look forward to that game and not 
 even buy or even at the least rent this Sonic game. Trust me, it's worse then Shadow the Hedgehog 
 (though even though I gave it a mediocre rating, I like that game) . Trust me, not every Sonic game 
 is worth getting, and this is the one that should be disavowed from the excistance of the franchise.
 
  
  Seriously, this Console game as the lowest professional score and fan score of any Sonic game I 
 have seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NathanGPowell
Rating: 2.3
Date: Feb 4, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  After the absolutely beautiful opening video the game goes down hill... fast. The graphics suck, 
 the camera motion is always interfering, Tails is always getting stuck in corners, and the controls 
 are extremely twitchy. Oh, and the plot is absolutely boring... same as the actual missions. Hugely 
 dissapointing. I will be trading it in very quickly for Virtua Fighter 5 or MotorStorm or maybe 
 a blank piece of paper (at least you can make a paper football and have one-million times more 
 fun than Sonic) . It's really too bad... the PS3 needed a good title and SEGA totally ruined it's 
 opportunity. Hedgehog has gone the way of roadkill... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GothicWar
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 4, 2007 1:01 am PT
Review:  First off I got to wonder if perhaps gamespot decided to not play the ps3 version and just scored 
 it based off there xbox360 review, which to me is abit unfair and not very good reviewing. The 
 game controls remind me of Sonic adventure (although the snow baording stage does have some arkward 
 controls) that remind of those sweet days of dreamcast sonic games which were very cool. All the 
 chars are cool including the new ones such as Silver and some enemys, and the voice acting is good. 
 The action is awesome, and the mission are a challenge at times. It has lots of replay value, and 
 lots of cool cg movies. The Blue wonder has returned, and a in a big way as you play though 3 storys 
 with Sonic, Shadow, and Silver with alittle somethign extra when you finished all three of the 
 storys. This game is worth the wait, and the fixing to make this game very cool to play. As for 
 gamespot I got to say they are slacking in the reviewing of a multi platform game that had it's 
 problems fixed for ps3, and not like that horrible xbox360 version. So I ask gamespot to review 
 this game again, and be serious about this and not just slap on the review and such you put on 
 the xbox360 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gutter_trash
Rating: 2.4
Date: Feb 3, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  Im a Sonic Fan and I loved Sonic 1, 2, 3 &amp; Knuckles, Chaotix, SA, SA2, and I even liked Heroes
 
  
  The is the worst Sonic game ever made... or possibly one of the top 10 worst games ever made in 
 video game history.
  
  It will join E. T. 2600 and Superman 64 in the infamy of mediocrity
  
  Gameplay:
  If you thought 
 that you could stomach the story and the town areas and enjoy the Action Stages, you are in for 
 a shock.
  
  The Action Stages suffer from several problems. From slowdowns, to frame rate drops, to collision 
 detection problems or just passing through the floor and falling off the map of the game.
  
  Sonic keeps his homing attacks, gains a sliding attack but his Sonic Speed Dash is rendered 
 useless this time around because you cannot jump out of it like you could in the past Sonic games.
 
  The Sliding attack is relatively slow and cannot be canceled with a jump, so you often must force 
 yourself to turn in circles until he slows down into a stop.
  Some Level designs don't let into the gameplay very well, especially for the Mach Speed moments. 
 During the Mach Speed moments Sonic is forceful propelled forward and you have no control on his 
 forward momentum. If you hit a wall or a rock, you lose rings and spiral out of control, if get 
 hit again without rings well, you die.
  The other problem with the Mach Speed mement is the level design, since your control of Sonic is 
 extremely limited and glitchy, the level designs helps the frustrations: Sonic Team decided to 
 put varrendas, piers and bridges with guards rails where Sonic can get stuck into and you get to 
 witness the most bizarre event int any Sonic game yet, he starts spazzing and being forced forward 
 but cannot go forward so he will be pulled to the nearest side, and you die.
  
  Tails has been slowed down about 3 times his original speed and lost his Tail swipe attack and 
 his Tails when flying cannot damage enemies from above him. He is given a fake rings projectile 
 which you barely have any aiming control and is not fun at all
  
  In between Action Stages, you have no choice but to accomplish Town mission objective to continue. 
 Some of these Town mission vary from hoop jumping, enemy time attack elimination , find the missing 
 little girl and guess who's the Captain.
  
  I'm tired of writing this review, just stay away from this game, it is all bad, and I'm a Sonic 
 fan.
  
  Save your money for Virtua Fighter 5 or Sonic &amp; The Secret Rings on the Wii.
  
  Sonic Next Gen is a vasectomy of gaming and a castration of the good name Sonic. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sulimanhustler
Rating: 9.3
Date: Feb 3, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  The Sonic name has been destroyed. This doesnt help either. - Serisously when u think of it the 
 sonic games haven't been good since the sonic adventures. Sonic heroes was childish, sonic riders 
 is a maybe, and shadow (im not even going to start) . Overall that was the past so who cares we 
 have a whole new game..... Ok now it looks like the 360 version of this blew up in their face but 
 i still liked it there but it is better here. By far sonic belongs on the playstation 3 now. Unless 
 another sega system comes out (please doooooooooo i have every sega system) which i doubt then 
 sonic belongs here. Serisously what can you say about this. ITS AWESOME. The controls feel much 
 much much much better on the playstation 3 in my opinion. Also the play station 3 is more powerful 
 making sonic faster which is another reason sonic belongs on the play station 3. I'm sorry for 
 everyone who doesn't like this game its got a great inrto, story, ending, graphics (ps3 thakn you) , 
 better speed here, town, and a whole new hedgehog. That my friends is a formula for great success 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: awa123456789_12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Feb 3, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  This new game from Sega features great graphics, unbelievable gameplay, and now, on the Sony Playstation 
 3, sonic can run faster, and do his classic moves, and many, many new moves with awesome power.
  The story is decent, and features a princess being kidnapped by Eggman, and Sonic saving her. The 
 game also brings back Shadow as a playable character, as well as a new hedgehog, Silver, who has 
 telekinetic powers. The backrounds are very colourful, and movement is very good too. The camera 
 sometimes screws up though, and makes the movement difficult in these situations. The music often 
 gets repetitive though, and the voice of the characters aren't great either. Overall, this game 
 is worth buying, and is fun for all ages, because of it's good gameplay and graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakdaxtersaga
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 2, 2007 8:57 pm PT
Review:  When I started playing Sonic the Hedgehog, I was thinking, The game's been on delay for a month. 
 Maybe Sega worked out the bugs in the game. I was a little dissapointed. I am a die-hard fan of 
 Sonic but when I played the first level, I lost all my lives because during the high-speed part, 
 I lost control over Sonic. There aren't many oppertunities to save the game or regain lives, so 
 when you die, you end up starting at a place you were at 20 minutes ago, and you don't feel like 
 playing it again. Silver's first level blew my mind away. After I played that I was thinking, this 
 could set the game right. THe next level was almost cruel. The lever had a point that I lost all 
 of my lives in because of the fact that there were no rings by the next area with the checkpoint 
 and the next area had three difficult enemies. The best levels are Crisis City for all three characters, 
 Kingdom Valley for Sonic, and Iblis boss 1 for Silver. All of the other levels had good moments, 
 but they are ruined by breaking in the action by loading times or switching off to a useless character 
 who only ends up making you die. The levels looked amazing. The gameplay basics are good. It feels 
 like not only is there action, but also a fighting element. Shadow's combos are amazing and cool-looking. 
 silver is an amaizng idea and has the best storyline with the most interesting side characters 
 to play as. Rouge and Tails are useless in this game. Tails is just slow and Rouge loses her kick 
 combos. The climbing as Knuckles and Rouge has a major glitch which is when you try to jump of 
 the climb you immediatle sttach on the wall again. It took me 28 tries before I got off that wall. 
 Sonic has good gameplay as well as Shadow but the supporting cast ruins the time spent as the two 
 hedgehogs. There is no tutorial for the game. It feels like you're going in blind. THe only help 
 you get it by hint rings and then there might be an action you have to do that hasn't been explained 
 yet. An example is in Silver's forest level when you have to use ESP to ride a crate to move on. 
 The music is okay, but you'll be too frustrated at the game to notice it. The camera is a pain. 
 I found something nice where you hold down the L2 button and the camera stays behind the character. 
 Look forward to Sonic and the Secret Rings for the Wii. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Blademaster
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 2, 2007 6:47 pm PT
Review:  If there has ever been a game that made me want to complety destroy it, it was this one. Never 
 before have i been so ticked off at the game. The camera angle was 10x worse then even Prince of 
 Persia the 2 Thrones, which i never thought i'd say about anything. Way to easy to die, especially 
 if you compare it to any previous game in the series. Hundreds of glitches... you heard that rumor 
 about it being held back on the ps3 to fix glitches? Total BS... just as bad as X360 version. You 
 constantly fall through maps, walk through stone walls, and other crap. Silver is horrible, and 
 can not even fight unless a throwable object is around. Shadow is probably the best in game, but 
 even his controls are clunky. You gotta survive long enough to buy upgrades that u need to beat 
 the levels. Multiplayer i just as frusterating, really tough to survive, and u can only play as 
 Sonic, Shadow, or Silver... I would not even recommend renting this game to anyone. A total, complete 
 disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hovins
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is surprisingly good with new heroes and enemies. Of course, Eggman is back as always 
 but he keeps getting abruptly tougher. But nothing is tough for this blue hedgehog with blistering 
 speed. Sonic... with new friend fighting for freedom and peace. Graphic are splendid, but a few 
 glitches are caught. Sounds are great, always new and improved, but it would be better if there 
 could be more hype on the music. Value seems worth it, doesn't bother me and gameplay is great, 
 with lots of new maneuvers. New cities are great but the people reaction needs improvement in the 
 game. Everything seems fun to me and keeps the tempo going on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cahey
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2007 9:30 am PT
Review:  I was super impressed with the multiplayer function. I like games that have the coop playing. The 
 graphics were awesome and the first playes story mode had me hooked right away. I like the fact 
 that there are puzzles that you have to figure out and it's just a great game all together! The 
 camera angles can be kind of frustrating to new comers, but once you get the hang of it you can 
 start to anticipate what it is that is coming up on you. It's a fast paced game and gets better 
 the faster you get going. Best sonic game to date! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rowen826
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:07 pm PT
Review:  This is game is, as many said, it is great. The graphic are good, the sound is good, the level 
 are nicely done and so far I like the story line. The game has many glitches, but they don't bother 
 me at all, after all every game has them. The only that I have against this game is the loading 
 screens/times there so many of them. Time to time you will get annoyed specially when you get 4 
 loading screens for one sentence. But if waiting for the game to load does not bother you to much, 
 then you will find Sonic the Hedgehog rather entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Feb 1, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  This is the greatest Sonic game of all time, it has speedy gameplay and really does take speed 
 to an all new level! I think the greatest part about this game particular is the speed! Once you 
 start this game you cant stop. Its sooooooooooo addicting, you cant put the controller down. The 
 other uniqe part of this game is how many characters you can play as. You can play as Blaze, Shadow, 
 Silver, Tails, and of course the coolest and fastest Sonic the Hedgehog. You play just 2 levels 
 with him and you'll be hooked. Dont trust the bad rating some people give this game. The first 
 level cant get you into the game considering it is kind of tough to beat, but once you get further 
 its easy to realize why this game is truly next-generation and one of the best Sonic the Hedgehog 
 games ever made! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DAgreatest255
Rating: 9.6
Date: Feb 1, 2007 3:55 am PT
Review:  Sonic The Hedgehog for ps3 did not change a lot from its 360 version, but the loading times are 
 cut shorter, but not for very, much, and the glitches are not found, in my opinion, and thats nice. 
 But the camera is not good, especially the town when going in bridges, roof tops, and much more 
 areas, and thats not very bearable too. In the town there is no people, and the missions are one 
 by one!!!!!!!!!!! Why don`t they just spread them around, and cant play them until you beaten the 
 one before that is beaten.
  just to fill up the town. But the action stages are WAY COOL!!!!!!!!
  Just as I suspected they 
 would be like, because without the stages being that great this score would of been a under a 5 
 to me.
  So if you are a die hard Sonic fan, then you should get this game :) 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
