-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Sonic Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/sonicunleashed/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Looks good.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Monotonous combat.
 Imprecise platforming.
 Inept camera restricts your view.
 Tons of control issues.
 Horrendous level design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan  8, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 3.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 285 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Sonic Team
Genre: Action
Date: Dec 9, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Terrible level design, unresponsive controls, and a poor camera are just the beginning of the problems 
 in this awful adventure. 

  Every new Sonic release carries a hope that Sega's blue hedgehog will be able to regain the form 
 that made him a star in the early '90s. And most every venture into the third dimension has resulted 
 in various degrees of failure. Sonic Unleashed was supposed to provide the unrelenting speed fans 
 have been clamoring for, and it does finally offer a healthy dose of turbo-charged levels to burn 
 through. Unfortunately, even with Sonic's trademark speed finally on full display, Unleashed lacks 
 one very important element: fun. The imprecise platforming, absentminded camera, and poor level 
 design make Sonic's levels an unplayable mess, while his baffling transformation into lumbering 
 werehog comes with a whole new slew of problems. Put simply, there is no reason to play Sonic Unleashed. 

           Using stretchy arms in combat isn't as cool as it sounds.      

  The story begins with Dr. Eggman shooting the world with a giant ray gun. Predictably, the planet 
 breaks apart, but there is an unexpected side effect as well. Innocuous Sonic gets transformed 
 into a giant, mean-looking creature called a werehog. This abomination emerges only when the sun 
 goes down, and the game allows you to play stages during the day and at night to make full use 
 of your dual personalities. Even though there are an equal number of hedgehog and werehog stages, 
 most of your time in Sonic Unleashed will be spent at night, since the arduous combat levels take 
 far longer to complete than the sprint-to-the-finish-line hedgehog races.  

  The werehog levels are extremely tedious. The levels are evenly divided between platforming and 
 fighting, but both elements offer more frustration than excitement. Even though you can unlock 
 more combos as you progress through the journey, your combat strategy never evolves beyond mindlessly 
 tapping two attack buttons with an occasional jump thrown in for good measure. You're given a shield 
 for when things get too hectic, but it's hardly ever necessary. The enemies are stupid, blithely 
 standing around until you take the fight to them, and their lack of variety becomes oppressively 
 obvious after just a few hours. Youll be given a few checkpoints in each level, but these are 
 awkwardly placed, so you'll have to repeatedly mash through the same battalion of enemies if you 
 can't properly navigate the woeful platforming sections.  

  As a werehog you're equipped with stretchable arms and the ability to grab onto ledges. This should 
 come in handy when venturing around these stages, but a few arbitrary restrictions have been tossed 
 in to make even simple navigation annoying. First of all, you can only grab onto certain surfaces. 
 If you mistime a jump, you often won't be able to grab a nearby ledge to save yourself, resulting 
 in a quick death. Second, your arms' stretchiness varies at random, so while it may be possible 
 to grab a ledge from a certain distance at one point, from that same distance later on in the level, 
 you'll find your reach stunted. The camera also hinders your progress. You are given free control 
 over your view when standing in the middle of a large plot of land. But when placed on a precarious 
 walkway where a perfect line of sight is necessary, your camera control will be severely restricted, 
 allowing only slight shifts to either side of your character. Because the punishment system is 
 so immediate and severe (falling in water results in instant death) , these miscues will quickly 
 steal away your precious lives, leaving only frustration in their wake.          Unleashed is at 
 its best when you're barely interacting with Sonic.      

  The Sonic levels don't fare any better than the lousy werehog parts. Your goal is to run as quickly 
 as possible to the finish line, but the camera is rarely able to give you an optimal view and the 
 controls are far too loose to provide the pinpoint accuracy you'll need. These technical problems 
 mean you'll have to memorize stages before you can breeze through them. The game is not responsive 
 enough to allow you to consistently avoid obstacles the first time you encounter them, so you'll 
 find yourself repeatedly plowing headfirst into spikes and falling down countless bottomless pits 
 before you finally know where each obstacle lays ahead of time. Extra lives -- something youre usually 
 happy to see in a game -- actually serve as a warning in Sonic Unleashed. Particularly cheap sections 
 are often adorned by these markers, ensuring you can play them repeatedly to memorize their cruel 
 layout and hope luck is on your side.  

  Even after you commit these stages to memory, though, you'll still die over and over again because 
 of the unresponsive controls. A few levels take place on the water, making you sprint at top speeds 
 to keep from sinking below the surface. Moving laterally while blazing through waves is sluggish, 
 but you'll still have to swerve to and fro to complete the missions. In other stages, you'll have 
 to perform wall jumps to succeed. This ability only works on certain surfaces, but even when you 
 find an ideal place to ricochet from, the finicky timing means you'll try and fail until you do 
 it perfectly. Certain sections require you to slow down and perform precise jumps across tiny platforms. 
 The controls are built for speed, though, so a slight push on the analog stick will send Sonic 
 sprinting to his death. The game also tosses in quicktime events at random moments. Some of these 
 will catapult you to different parts of the level, but other times you'll be hit with an instant 
 death if you can't meet their strict deadlines.  

  Even the between-stage hub is a total drag. Though the professor is supposed to guide you to the 
 next goal, he does little more than point you in a general direction and send you on your way. 
 You'll have to talk to specific citizens to open some levels, and trying to track down the one 
 person with pertinent information is an out-of-place burden. The level entrances are often hidden 
 in random locations and hunting them down can be maddening. Worse, when you finally find one of 
 these entrances, you'll often be kept from entering it until you collect a certain number of moon 
 and sun pieces from previous levels. Collecting items in platformers is expected, but the loose 
 controls and obstinate camera make searching for missing pieces grueling.          You'll learn 
 plenty of obvious information talking to townsfolk.      

  The boss fights follow the theme of the other elements in Sonic Unleashed. These battles are long 
 and tedious, forcing you to play the waiting game for minutes on end until the giant beasts open 
 themselves up for attack. The sheer length of these ordeals makes the fights far more aggravating 
 than they would otherwise be. The attack patterns are easy to learn, so you'll spend more time 
 standing around waiting for them to let their guard down than actually attacking them. Even worse, 
 their attack patterns don't drastically change through the fight, so you'll be repeating the same 
 basic dodge maneuvers until you can finally vanquish these oversized annoyances.  

  The lone bright spot in this otherwise painful mess are some cheery, bright visuals. The graphics 
 are far from cutting-edge, but aside from some frame rate hitches, the game runs smoothly and the 
 levels are pleasantly colorful. The game is at its best when your interaction with it is minimal 
 and you're able to simply admire the view. The camera adjusts for cinematic impact while you tear 
 through loops and grind rails as Sonic, and though you're doing little more than pushing right 
 on the analog stick during these sections, it is entertaining to watch Sonic swoop by. It's sad 
 that Sonic Unleashed is only enjoyable during the moments when you're hardly in control of it. 

  Pretty pictures aren't enough to make up for the miserable gameplay. Almost nothing else in this 
 game even reaches the level of mediocrity. The Sonic levels are poorly laid out and have unresponsive 
 controls, the werehog portions have monotonous combat and a wonky camera, and even the hub world 
 is so difficult to navigate, you'll spend way too much time searching for the next level. There 
 just isn't any fun to be had in Sonic Unleashed.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: raydalmonster
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:04 pm PT
Review:  Story/Concept
  
  So it starts out with an epic opening where there's seems to be some kind of battle with Eggman 
 and Sonic. Eggman catches him in his trap, turning Sonic into the creature of the night and splitting 
 the Earth into 7 pieces, releasing Dark Gaia. Sonic is shot to Earth and meets up with a little 
 creature who doesn't know his name. Eventually Sonic decides to name him chip for his love of food. 
 Now they are off on a quest to save the Earth and find Chip's true identity.
  - I think the story is very basic and easy to follow, just the way I like it. It's not that bad 
 of story either. Pretty epic.
  
  
  History
  Not many know this, but the game is a threequel of the Sonic Adventure series. Many people have 
 commented on how the gameplay is so similar to the Adventure's series and well that's why. The 
 game is even called Sonic World Adventure in Japan. They decided to keep Sonic as the only playable 
 character because it takes more quality out of fewer characters. If you've played Next Gen, you 
 would understand that reason. Though the game does offer a stage where Tails is flying the Tornado, 
 though Sonic is still the character operating the gun. The 2D concept was also brought back to 
 the Sonic series, in high hopes to get old fans back. Though some of those fans decided to bash 
 the game for stupid reasons. 
  
  Controls/ Game play
  There are two different kinds of levels: day and night time stages. The controls overall are pretty 
 easy to understand. 
  
  Day times Stages:
  x- jump
  square- boost and Homing attack
  circle- slide and crouch
  L1 and R1- "quick step"
  L2 and R2- drift
  
  Night time stages:
 
  x- jump and double jump
  square- slash
  triangle- punch
  circle- grab
  R1- unleash
  L1- Shield
  R2 and L2- dash
  
  The Day time levels is your typical 3D sonic fast paces game 
 play. It offers a few classic 2D moments to bring back old school Sonic. It is basically a fast 
 paced platformer.
  Night time levels were meant to bring old school Sonic truly back to the series. It is still a 
 platformer like day times but much more similar to old school sonic classics. These stages are 
 also brawlers. There are enemy fights all over the place, just like your typical beat 'em up type 
 game. They remind me of God of War and a better version of the Crash series.
  At the end of each level, you are put into a grading system depending on how well you played the 
 stage. The ranks are S A B C D and E. You normally only get an S if you have mastered the stage 
 perfectly and getting an E would be a typical FAIL.
  - I love both the day time and night stages. They bring a good variety to the game. Fast paced 
 level followed by a slower paced level to calm you down a bit. The day time stages are exciting 
 and fast moving. Though I have noticed the buttons can be a little in responsive at times. Many 
 people say the Night levels drag on way too long. I agree to an extent. But many people over exaggerate 
 a bit. Just because they are a bit slow, doesn't make them unfun. It is quite enjoyable to watch 
 Sonic beat up enemies picking them up and bashing them against the wall or even against other enemies. 
 It makes me laugh almost every time. And the combos can be bit messy and normally result in random 
 button smashing. But it's still fun. Also in these stages the camera can be a bit frustrating at 
 times.
  Sometimes to get to certain stages, you need a specific amount of Sun or Moon Medals. It can be 
 very frustrating trying to find them. One time I had to collect SIXTEEN sun medals! That made me 
 very mad. But it kind of reminds me of star collecting in Super Mario 64 (I love that game btw)
 
  I also noticed in the later stages there are some frame rate issues (mostly in Adabat and especially 
 in Eggman Land) . I think the reason for that is because it had a date that it needed to be finished 
 and they were in a rush near the end of the game. Kind of like in Sonic Next Gen.
  I simply love how good the replay value is! You can replay any stage or boss you've beaten any 
 time you want! Even the final boss! It is so amazing. Possibly my favorite part about the gameplay.
 
  Overall, the gameplay is nice and solid.
  
  Design/ Graphics
  The graphics are AMAZING. They are simply beautiful! You can see every detail of every little thing. 
 From the shine in his shoe to the inside of a cute shop from a window in day time stage where you 
 typically zoom by, not even noticing it's there. The night time stages are my most favorite designed 
 levels. I guess that's mostly because of the bright awesome neon colors in every punch you throw 
 and every enemy you see. Neon in Sonic FTW!!! *ahem* But like in many games the out game cut scenes 
 are much better designed than the in game ones.
  
  Good and Bad aspects
  GOOD
  Beautiful graphics.
  NEON!!
  Good story
  Well put together gamplay
  Catchy Music
  Challenging
 
  
  BAD
  Worst voice acting in the history of gaming! The only voice I can stand to listen to is Sonic's.
 
  Lame jokes (Professor PICKLE?!?)
  Annoying camera in Night time stages
  Cheap deaths in certain levels (Eggman Land Especially)
  Collecting Sun and Moon Medals
  
 
  
  
  My Rating:
  Story 5/5
  Gameplay 4/5
  Graphics 5/5
  Final Rating 14/15
  
  I HIGHLY recommend getting this game! It is truly fun for the whole family. You'll spend hours 
 playing and have fun doing it!
  
  
  -The true honest game reviewer,
  Raydalmonster
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gaara-sama98
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  Well...... I played this game expecting awesome graphics, a great story, and cool sonicy stuff....... I 
 do believe I would rather play the old sonic anyday before this. The graphics were good but the 
 game play was....... drab, dull, too drawn out. In the day time sonic was fun and faster than ever 
 but when the night missions came they were more of a chore and the missions were sometimes to long 
 for a sonic game. The best part of the game was sonic during the day. The story was nothing special 
 and the concept of sonics "unleashed" form was too werewolfy and so very typical. During the day 
 sonic runs around at top speeds as usual collecting coins and trying to get somewhere while destroying 
 enemies and trying to get to the end of the stage. Night-time levels see Sonic transform into the 
 "Werehog"; gameplay slows down to accommodate greater platform play, and involves combat against 
 waves of enemies using his, uniquely phrased, "Werehog" powers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FallenBlackWing
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 1, 2009 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Gamespot, why a 3.5? What are you guys thinking? I'm never trusting them again... now for my review...
 
  
  Sonic Unleashed revolves around Sonic throughout the game. Eggman tries to destroy the world and 
 plans to make an Eggman City, and... you probably know how the storyline goes by now, right? (heh, 
 heh.)
  
  The daytime levels are cool and are somewhat reletively easy, Sonic's speed remains true to them. 
 The nighttime levels is where the (somewhat) fun begins. Sonic as a werehog, new fighting system, 
 new enemies (which were kinda dumb) levels are slow at times, but nothing can stop Sonic Team.
 
  
  Overall: storyline was great, gameplay is better than ever, graphics are simply stunning, Werehog 
 was sudden, though.
  
  So, Sonic Unleashed remains a fan favorite, a recommendation of this game is highly probable. Fans 
 of Sonic will play this game, unlike other next-gen sonic games, this one brings Sonic back to 
 the top of Sega's game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Temps567
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Don't trust Gamespot anymore because they did this same thing to Star Wars Force Unleashed.
  
  Ok to start off with, this is my real review of Sonic Unleashed and to me, it is the 5th best 
 multiplatform game I've played yet and the Second Best Sonic game I've ever played.
  
  Once you pop the disc in your going to have to download the trophies patch and everything before 
 you start. When you start you are greeted to an opening cutscene showing Sonic doing his usual 
 stuff to Eggman (Dr. Eggman) . Sonics on a destructive role when Eggman then captures him and robs 
 him of his Chaos Emeralds. Eggman then uses him to revive a monster located at the center of the 
 Earth's Core thus making all seven continents split apart. Sonic is caught in the middle of the 
 blast thus changing him into a werewolf sort of thing (sega calls him the "Werehog") . You are then 
 sent tumbling down to Earth when he lands on a mix between a squirrel and a fly. This thing that 
 Sonic lands on has also forgotten his memory so Sonic later names him Chip. Toegether they go around 
 the world looking for the Chaos Emeralds and trys to fix up the planet.
  
  Daytime Gameplay: The gameplay is very fast paced. This has got to be the fastest game I have ever 
 played. Controls are very balanced and sorta traditional. You run around with the left thumbstick, 
 jump with the x button, speed dash/homing attack with the square, and dash left and right with 
 the R1 and L1 buttons. A new feature they added was the ability to drift left or right by holding 
 the R2 button and going left or right. So the controls are very fun and kept simple enough for 
 even young ones to play. So no complaints here.
  
  Graphics: The Hedgehog Engine can work up some pretty mean graphics and they are the most colorful 
 and beutiful graphix ever seen in a Sonic game. Some texture pop ups occur but they're kept at 
 the bare minimum. So no complaints here either.
  
  Nighttime Gameplay: As I should've meantioned before there are two sttyles of gameplay. Daytime 
 and Nighttime. Nighttime gameplay kinda plays like a poorman's God Of War. It can get really repetitive 
 and even boring for younger players. These stages can be very time consuming as platforming is 
 very essential and long. Puzzles are very easy but as well as time consuming. The Nighttime stages 
 aren't bad in general. But they aren't really great either.
  
  Story: The story here kinda sets out from the traditional "collect all chaos emeralds and defeat 
 Eggman" thing and goes about its own path. With a few twist and turns around here, things can get 
 confusing as the game brings up multiple points and never really answers them in the end. Thats 
 the only rant I have with this section.
  
  Roaming Gameplay: Another particular gameplay experience is the ability to roam around small, open-world 
 areas. Here you can converse with people, accept missions, buy items, and more. These levels can 
 get in the way of the story sometimes and slow down the fun.
  
  Overall Satisfaction: My overall satisfaction with this game is really great actually. As I didn't 
 like the Nighttime stages, I did seem to enjoy the fast-paced daytime levels. This included with 
 the game's well made trophy system makes this game worth a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: prkprkprk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot has gone insane. They are giving this a 3.5... and why? This game is awesome. Sonic runs 
 faster than EVER... LITERALLY. This game's awesome and fun. But, when night falls and the moon rises, 
 things dont turn out so good. The Werehog. Now, I can say many things are wrong with it, but I 
 can say many things that are right with it too. See those combos? HOLY COW!!! Those are some awesome 
 combos, and this has to be some of the best combat I've ever seen. Sadly, the level design and 
 the boring enemies are the only bad parts of the night. Now, lets see the good and bad chart.
 
  
  DAY STAGES- THE GOOD:
  -Sonic Runs Faster than EVER
  -Level design is great
  -Stages are short and sweet
  -Easy
  
  DAY STAGES- THE BAD
  Well... there's nothing bad!
 
  
  NIGHT STAGES- THE GOOD:
  -Wonderful combat system
  -Sometimes fun to explore
  
  NIGHT STAGES- THE BAD:
  -I Don't Like the Enemies
  -Bad Level Design
  -LEVELS TOO LONG
 
  -Boring at most points
  -Way too hard
  
  OTHER GOODS:
  -AMAZING GRAPHICS!!!
  -Good story
  
  OTHER BADS:
  -Bad voice acting
  -Occasional minor slowdowns
  
  Overall, 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OneShot45
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 4:42 am PT
Review:  When Sonic Unleashed came out I ran to get it because I thought it was going to be an awesome game 
 but I was wrong. This game wasn't horrible but it also had some things that kept it out of fame. 
 I think this is a step up from Sega's previous game "Sonic the Hedgehog" but we are still waiting 
 for a great Sonic game for the PS3.
  
  One thing Sonic Unleashed fails on the the day sequence. It is fun from time to time when you're 
 speeding around trying to beat the clock to the goal and get a good score but you're usually going 
 to fast to admire any of the graphics or scenery. It is also enough of a challenge to get a good 
 score but when you're at high speeds all the time it's hard to keep your character under control 
 and you usually die a few times before you can reach the end of the level.
  
  Another thing Sonic Unleashed doesn't deliver to it's fullest it the night sequences. The new mutant 
 Sonic looks cool at first and fits the "Warehog" name but the combat is a little weak. Most of 
 the levels are just running around with a few battles placed here and there and one or two major 
 boss battles. I think Sega could have made the night play a little more enjoyable but it isn't 
 the worst thing.
  
  Now, since I named two bad things about Sonic Unleashed, let me tell you some good things. One 
 thing Sega did good on is the graphics. They are well made but you can't notice them very much 
 because, as I said before, you're running around to fast during the day but you can admire the 
 lighting, sound and graphics a little more at night when gameplay is slower. 
  
  One last good aspect of Sonic Unleashed is the story line. Even though it is very far fetched, 
 ( Isn't every game! ) it pieces together very well. When you're trying to restore Earth to normal 
 while fighting the evil Eggman and his Dark Gaia you are pretty occupied. And, near the end, there 
 is a funny twist with one of the characters.
  
  So, to wrap it all up, I think Sonic Unleashed deserves a better rating than 3.5 like a 7.5. I 
 am going to admit, there are many bugs in this game but it isn't all bad. There are fun boss battles 
 and, I said before, the graphics and sound are good too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sharpshooterhq
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 9, 2009 10:38 pm PT
Review:  This game deserves way more than just a 3.5. It's pretty pathetic for gamespot to be giving this 
 game a very low score. I have been waiting long to see a game like this and it's amazing in speed, 
 graphics, but needs more control on camera and controller movements but other than that it's great. 
 I say Sonic 1-3 and Knuckles should be remade to versions like this game. This Game has God of 
 War style fighting and actions and Kingdom Hearts like night enemies. This game is worth it and 
 pretty upset with the ratings that was given to this game. When fighting Eggman's Boss machines 
 are pretty cool. Reminds me of Contra Shattered Soldier on side view when fighting Egg Beetle. 
 I recommend this game to any Sonic fan out there. The Final boss looks pretty cool and surprised 
 the way this game was made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hervo16
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 23, 2009 3:38 pm PT
Review:  For the last 7 years .... we have been waiting for a 3D Sonic game that betters the Sonic Adventure 
 series on DC and GC. Sadly such a game had'nt arrived ,Until Sega promised us that Sonic Unleashed 
 would be different and return to the full trademark speed last seen on Megadrive/Genisis. Sega 
 deliver the goods on this promise ,This game is lighting fast , Defo the fastest Sonic game ever 
 made - bar none !However the many glitches and flaws that plauge the game (and there are alot) 
 ruin what had the potential to be the best sonic game in over a decade . What we are left with 
 is way below the expectations that we reluctantly let Sega plant in to our minds. 
  Il start by explaining the games good points:
  01: The Story: Sonic is battling with Eggmans 
 array of weapons on his airship base , Dodgeing gun fire and explosives (using a combonation of 
 speed and acrobatics) , Sonic makes his way closer to where Eggman is located . Transforming in 
 to Super Sonic , Sonic chases Eggman down but ends up inside one of Eggmans traps. Stripped of 
 his chaos emeralds (which Eggman uses to shoot a beam of energy in to the Earth ,splitting it in 
 to 7 parts and activating a force known as dark gaia) Sonic becomes regular sonic again . Pressed 
 against the floor in pain , Sonic begins to change , Turning in to the Werehog (A werewolf version 
 of Sonic , caused by a sideeffect of the Dark Gaia ) Sonic is then complimented on his new image 
 by Eggman and hurled in to space along with the 7 drained chaos emeralds. Waking up somewere on 
 Earth , Sonic meets the loveable Chip who has lost his memory (Possibly by Sonic landing on top 
 of him ) So Sonic agrees to help him find someone who knows him and the game begins . 
  The story is really good its like something out of a sonic cartoon , The cutscenes advance the 
 story well and are also quite amusing . 
  
  02: The first few levels : The first two Sonic levels are amazing, The Graphics are lovely , its 
 so damn fast my eyes could barely keep up, the music is decent and everything flows together without 
 any noticable glitches or flaws , just pure fun . The first Werehog level is decent (il quickly 
 explain the 2 different types of level .Sonic is normal Sonic in the day and you do the sonic levels 
 were u speed through as fast as possible ,These dont last long ,only a few minutes . Then at night 
 your the Werehog , these levels are slower , much longer , less graphicly intense and focus on 
 combat against waves and waves of only a few different types of enemies.) Anyway the first werehog 
 level is decent : Its kind of cool smashing things up , its something different for a sonic game 
 , The platforming sections seem like they have potential and I love the way The werehog runs just 
 like a werewolf . SO far so good at this point i was delighted with my purchase and eager to play 
 more . 
  
  03: The tails plane missions and the boss battles : Well there is only two of the plane missions 
 in the game but there highly enjoyable . basicly while tails flys the plane , You have to stand 
 on the back and shoot down ships and then a boss , You do this by pressing buttons that appear 
 on screen but you have to be quick . The boss battles in this game are pretty damn good , As fans 
 of Sonic games would expect but there attack patterns dont change much ,if at all . So when you 
 do learn there attack pattern ,It gets a bit too easy to finish them off . 
  
  04: The graphics , the Citys and the Chip : Overall the graphics in this game are spot on. The 
 vibrant, Colourfull enviroments you'll experience in the day are a marvel to behold but sadly in 
 the night its nothing too special. 
  The citys are nice too explore through while talking to people. Having an rpg style way of talking 
 to everyone to learn stuff as well as there personalities is a nice feature but the fact ther all 
 human seems a bit out of place and sometimes i wonderd why i wasnt going through citys full of 
 animals to talk to . Chip is a great character , hes funny and loveable and it feels as if he was 
 plucked straight out of an old Sonic cartoon , which gives the game a bit of an oldschool nostalgic 
 feel to it . 
  
  Sadly all games have bad bits and here they are : (but i wont go too deep in to this ) 
  
  
 The Werehog levels get really frustrating , They all seem too similar , The camera is terrible 
 which turns what should be straight forward platforming fare , in to some sort of nightmare . Sometimes 
 water or sumfin tht will kill you seems to appear from nowere , because its so dark you cant see 
 them . The combat gets old fast and only a few types of diffrent enemies to beat up doesn't help 
 this . Also there is battle music when your fighting and its the same annoying tune on every single 
 level . These werehog levels are also far too long some taking a good 20 minutes maybe even more 
 , when all you want do is get back to being Sonic . 
  Not that the Sonic levels are without there problems . The boost makes you go so fast youll plummit 
 of edges or in to hazards without warning . Theres parts were youll be running along and then randomly 
 , a set of buttons will pop up which youll have to press in before you fall to your death or end 
 up in a route you don't want . Sega even decided to put platforming bits in ,But when your going 
 faster than you can see its impossible to jump across and up the tiny platforms and youl find yourself 
 dyeing (possibly alot ) as a result . 
  For some reason you have to collect medals to open up new leavels . Sun medals for day levels and 
 moon medals for night levels . These things are !hard to come across when your speeding through 
 levels with Sonic . Also there tedious and often frustrating to get to , when you are the Werehog 
 . As a result of this youl find youl have to replay both Sonic and Werehog levels (quite possibly 
 one you finished moments ago ) searching desperatley for these medals , just to open a new level 
 . I have no idea why Sega did this and dont understand why they didn't give us a complete one level, 
 open up the next one , system, like a normal game! Overall Sonic Unleashed is good in parts, sometimes 
 its amazing but let down by the consistent flaws and glitches , Which stop this one from being 
 the classic that it should been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2009 3:45 am PT
Review:  Despite being voted as Europe's favourite gaming character, and has created an iconic legacy with 
 the gaming community, there is no question that Sonic the Hedgehog has sped on a rocky path. From 
 bashing from professional gaming press, to the fanbase losing intrest, Sonc's test of time hangs 
 in jeporady, and his fans giving up on him.
  
  I'm not an avid Sonic fan, but I still am a huge fan of classic Sonic. Sonic created a perfect 
 cross with platforming gameplay, and racing gameplay, and really created his own style which could 
 be rewoned today as Sonic style. Every modern Sonic title still leaves me in hope of the blue blazer 
 returning to glory, and reliving the speedy action of the Genesis games.
  
  When Sonic Unleashed sticks to what it does best, it is pure magic. The Sonic sections, containing 
 visually unforgettable levels, resurrecting the colourful vibrancy and strong artistic asset of 
 the classic Sonic stages. The Sonic sections; equipped with drifts, quick-steps, and quick-time 
 events, and the maniuplation of tight corners and memorization of levels bring back the hardcore 
 equilvent that Sonic once had. Sonic brings back the intesity, as once you know a stage, you will 
 be the blue blazer. The Sonic stages are not perfect however. Portions of areas are hampered down 
 by some questionable level design choices, that lead you to cheap deaths, and moments of annoyance. 
 But, thanks to the tight controls, glorious sense of speed and balanced level of difficulty, Sonic 
 is at the best state I have ever seen.
  
  Sonic's midnight friend: the werehog is a game that's halfway there. The memorable platforming 
 with the werehog's stretchy arms, combined with decent level design fit for exploriation are what 
 the werehog sections at one level a good effort, but the mundane shallow combat, combined wuth 
 lazy character design, hampers the potential of the Werehog. The camera is touchy, as the percision 
 required with the camera is ridiclous. The werehog sections are not bad, as the platforming sections 
 are nicely done, and the level design is certainly commendable, the gameplay could of had more 
 depth to be there.
  
  The audio quality in Unleashed is surprsingly well done. The music score shifts from modern punk 
 and instrumental rock, to some nice compositions. Themes such as Apotos Day Stage, Spagonia Day 
 Stage, and Chun-Nan are classic Sonic tunes, combing simplicity in the tunes with a pacy backing 
 that both clips Sonic action well, and both catchy and merry. The werehog sections do have some 
 forgettable tunes, and some feel like souless rehashes, but all in all, the music is solid in Unleashed. 
 The voicework in Unleashed ranges from excellent, by having terrific vocal performances for Eggman, 
 to decent with Sonic sounding good but not great, to droning and generic, such as the townsfolk 
 and Amy.
  
  Overall, Sonic Unleashed at one level, is both the best 2D and 3D Sonic yet. The speed, both with 
 the degree of depth, make Sonic run at proud speeds. Another, a game thats standard but nothing 
 special. There is definetely a huge ray of light in the darkness that the Sonic franchise has, 
 and for what this game is, it's good to have Sonic back, the way we all love him. Just... less 
 with the tack-ons, next time Sega. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crashndash
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2009 1:59 pm PT
Review:  it is deffinately a step away from the first sonic the hedgehog on ps3 and it gives much more fun 
 to playing as sonic. but when you switch to the uber slow werehog thats where it goes wrong.
  for one he is too slow and when it comes to fighting its a matter of pressing the right buttons 
 at the right time (talk about dance dance revolution style combat) but by the time you see what 
 to press its too late and you end up losing half of your health.
  also there are some occasions where you really have to keep an eye out of what buttons come out 
 first in the first boss battle because if you press the wrong buttons you will just waste energy 
 and get frustrated more.
  but otherwise the new levels look beautiful and the speed boost while playing as sonic is just 
 amazingly fun. if you can take the frustration of being beaten up over and over till you can win 
 then it is a good game but if you have a short temper i recomend staying away from this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchmisfit99
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:16 am PT
Review:  Over 15 years from now Sonic the Hedgehog has been a big gaming icon over gaming history for many 
 years now and has been big icon over the world even through Anime/Cartoon shows to comic books.
 
  
  Main story is straight forward for anyone who has played through sonic games before. Where once 
 again Dr. Eggman is causing more trouble and trying to rule the world. But this time during a fight 
 in space, Sonic has harnessed the Chaos Emeralds and transformed into Super Sonic, dealing destructive 
 blows to Dr Eggman's precious machinery.
  However, unbeknownst to Sonic, he'd run head first into Dr .Eggman's most devious trap. Where suddenly 
 surrounded by high energy shield, which stripped him from his Super Sonic powers, while simultaneously 
 robbing him of the Chaos Emeralds.
  Dr. Eggman had anticipated Sonic's transformation from outset, and saw this as the perfect opportunity 
 to procure the Emeralds. From the polarity of the Chaos Emeralds, They were releasing dark energy 
 inside turning Sonic into a Werehog.
  
  After Dr. Eggman finished with his plan, Sonic had crashed landed on the world surface he meets 
 this pink creature called Chip. But it turns out that Chip has forgotten who he really and can't 
 remeber anything. When the sun rises Sonic had transformed back into his normal self again, so 
 Sonic and Chip have to stop Dr. Eggman and out the Chaos Emeralds back into each Temple before 
 the world is completely destroyed by Dark Gaia.
  
  Gameplay: A lot f people were specting Sonic Unleashed to be good as the old Sega Mega Drive series 
 or the Sonic Adventure series on the Sega Dreamcast. But for most fans of the series Sonic Unleashed 
 is a disappointment similar to the last Sonic the Hedgehog game which was released almost 2 years 
 ago on PS3 and 360.
  
  Playing as Sonic is simply basic just reach to the end of the level but it does have a few 2D elements 
 through most levels but it is a 3D Sonic game not a proper 2D game like in the 90's. Sonic has 
 some new abilities but they just look the similar as the last sonic game where one of them is Light 
 Speed dash is where your press Triangle to collecting rings. Or wall jumping which you've probably 
 seen in other games like Tomb Raider or Prince of Persia series.
  
  You can also play as Werehog where Sonic is a werewolf type character and has a lot of gameplay 
 elements from games like God of War and Heavenly Sword. Where it's mostly button mashing against 
 enemies but the gameplay controls for Werehog is kind of fiddly but just simple button mashing 
 which you'll be doing a lot and using rings to restore health and darkness which you use Werehog 
 to do stronger attacks on enemies. There are also button re-action commands as well where you have 
 to quickly press a button to either dodge or attack enemies similar other games like Kingdom Hearts 
 2, Resident Evil 4 or God of War.
  
  But the whole Sonic game is just trying to be perfect as Super Mario Galaxy, which has a few tasks 
 which you'll need to do in order to get to another level or getting half a key which can be use 
 to make a key and which opens a boss battle.
  But to do all of that you will be going up and down which can be annoying where you'll need a lot 
 of medals. Which have two symbols where sun medal are used for day time levels and moon medals 
 are used for night time levels. There are mini tasks in the game which mean nothing but there only 
 there for anyone who want trophies on PS3.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Ok something we can both agree on the graphics look great for a new sonic game 
 either during gameplay or during a cut scene making it feel more like an animated film. Down side 
 is that most levels are badly laid out and had been rushed completely. Playing in 3D or 2D the 
 levels still look disappointing and also the annoying camera control returns which you'll be complaining 
 about through out the whole game and also lead you to cheap deaths.
  Most fans can see why Sonic Team and Sega are trying to make Sonic Unleashed a perfect game for 
 every as they can but they have completely rushed it so they can just put it on the market in time 
 before the holiday season.
  
  Voicing is quite well done but some voicing for some charcters are bit annoying and most music 
 is repetitive specially playing as Werehog where it's the same battle music over and over which 
 is annoying.
  But the main song is good to listen too if you loved the music done by Crash 40 but this time the 
 main theme song is called Endless Possibility by Jaret Reddick.
  
  Overall: Most fans were looking forward to Sonic Unleashed because it was going to bring back 2D 
 style gameplay not 3D gameplay like most Sonic games have done. It turns out that the newest sonic 
 game is nothing more then a disappointment, broken gameplay controls and cheap deaths making you 
 feel like a fool.
  The full game can keep you busy for a few hours if you want all trophies but it is a let down and 
 it's not worth picking up if you haven't brought this game yet.
  
  There are moments in the game which are good like running down the Dragon stature in a level based 
 on China or helping Tails take out enemy ships and Eggman's airship. If there was going to be another 
 sonic game in a few years time keep the graphics the way they are but seriously need sort everything 
 else out not rushing everything all at once. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wolf_Xander2KX
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2009 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played it all yet. But all I have seen amazed me. It's certainly not a GTA or a MGS, 
 but for a sonic title it's all and more we could have ever expected for. The Werehog level might 
 be long or simply not what some people can enjoy, wasn't my case, but it's still about precision 
 and that's a part of what Sonic is about. There might also be some frame drop, we can see the new 
 hedgehod engine is still young, but it's more than playable and it's rare. Much much better than 
 the previous Sonic. Finally, Sonic's level are just amazing. I had so much fun. Everything is just 
 great.
  
  Read my review? I guess I'm a Sonic fanboy, I'm 22, I've been playing Sonic ever since the 1st 
 title on Sega Genesis. I've seen the up and down of this series and don't get me wrong, I wanted 
 to throw the 1st PS3 or X360 title through the window. But honestly, how did it get a score even 
 worse than its predecessor? You know, I like to tell myself, well that game been rated good, I'll 
 buy it. But if some people decide to start reviewing this game and hates it before he actually 
 try it. It's gonna give a ugly rating and I believe Gamespot should be a bit more professionnal 
 about that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chagg001
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Thissonic game is better but could have been even better. Just to let you know gamespot only gave 
 it that score because of sonics reputation of being fast and the warehog wasn't as fast as the 
 hedgehog. Some things we all want: Super sonic transformation in levels, Shadow, Knuckles and tails 
 playable, fast but controlable, simple controls with great visiaul effects.
  
  Face it these things will never happen because sega are stuburn. No more characters just the originals 
 and Shadic, no more experiments or powerups just the light dash and bounce attack, No rpg elements 
 get thing through the story! and finally no more annoying last bosses and tricky areas.
  
  This game has started on that but to make it better it needs to do these things and a better level 
 designer. The good thing is the game is fun if you get use the the controls and can memorise levels 
 so you wont get game over alot. The only let down for his game it the last bosses because they 
 are terribly designed. Warehog is good he has a variety of combos (Around 40) and isn't that slow 
 (As fast as sonic was on the old sonic game (PS3 one) ) good game starting to get there but the 
 daytime levels are great and good fun and most of the night time levels are too only one nighttime 
 level is bad. Sonic can go up to 300mph and you still have great control. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mars100
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 8, 2009 8:46 pm PT
Review:  I've never really been into Sonic but when i saw this at a friend's house I had to have it. My 
 favorites are the Hedgehog parts (he transforms into a Werehog at night but I'll get into that 
 later)
  If you've ever wanted pure adrenaline pumping Sonic speed this is the game for you. During these 
 parts you'll go so fast your eyes will water! He's also able to speed boost and quickly dodge from 
 side to side. The levels can be a bit short and you have play them a moderate number of times so 
 you can remember the obstacles but if can get past that and fly through the level it's a thing 
 of beauty.
  
  Now on to the Werehog parts, at first combat is a bit dull, but as you level up his combat abilities 
 it becomes incredible to watch, his moves become very powerful and spectacular. He is also able 
 to become invincible (called Unleashed) for a short time once he has collected enough energy. The 
 platforming parts can be a bit tricky but they're never over the top difficult.
  
  As you gain experience by defeating enemies you can level up both of Sonic's sides abilities which 
 grants you a lot of freedom of style of play: for instance if you are a defensive player you can 
 level up life and shield, if want to go aggressive you can level up combat and strength. 
  
  The bosses are great and the graphics (although they could be better) are very nice. 
  
 
  The few downfalls I think this game has are an over complicated navigation system that can be 
 irritating if you have to travel from city to city a lot and a wonky camera, other than that I 
 think this is a great game that does Sonic right and will be appreciated by Sonic fans, people 
 looking for a speed fix, and those looking for great action. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sagax03
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I am a sonic fanboy and a mario half fan-boy. When i heard bout' sonic unleashed i was hoping ot 
 to be amzing not just good but amazing. what i got was way more than that. It was a blast from the 
 past. with god of war... lol. Sonic unleashed is a awsome game lets see why.
  
  Story-Eggman tricks sonic and uses his super power to split the world up intailly eggman was planning 
 to take over the world right there (SPOILER) but dark gaia was awakened at the wrong time thus 
 taking time for it to take over the world. even though sonic loses his super form it was bargained 
 with something else that dark gaia gave to him. yep the werehog. Sonic super energy turned negative 
 turning him into a werehog of course in the end he gets back his super form but yeah cool.6 main 
 characters appear without knuckles and shadow.= [. sonic the cool anime type character, tails the 
 sidekick, chip the cartoon lovable little dog, amy rose the anime sonic-addicted girl, prof. pickle 
 the cartoon type proffeser ,and sonic the werehog the strong anime type character. mixing sonic 
 and chip actually work well with confident anime feels and funny cartoon feels the story is amazing.
 
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  
  Gameplay-Sonic the hedgehog himself is amazing. He moves fast jumps cool and has well short levels. sonic 
 the werehog has fun combat levels .first complaint i want to make is that (for reviwers) THE WEREHOG 
 IS A F***ING RIPOFF OF POP AND GOD OF WAR GOD. And its fun. lacking blood with the strong furios 
 punches its not a site for sore eyes. but still platforming is great and you wont brawl 24/7. Know 
 back to the speed lvs. (another complaint to the reviwers) THERE IS NOTHING WRONG WITH THE CAMERA 
 ON SPEED LEVELS. yes on the night time barely sometimes the angle gets wierd but its durable. know 
 back to daytime again. sonic is fast he has hedgehog engine, quick step, and the drift nice abilitys. the 
 hedgehog engine is the most valueble you will burst into speed with that one. the quick step allows 
 you to dodge obsticles more easily. And drift will avoid slow downs on edges. Sonics levels are a 
 little short. The hedgehog engine is very good you wont control it very well but its fun to use. Not 
 to mention you can level up on your speed and engine. Know for the night ,sonic turns into the werehog. Its 
 fun the combos are really great to pull off. Platforming is easy to do nothing is really wrong with 
 it. the camera is durable as stated. next is hub world. you can walk and explore.. also in hub people 
 will be taken over by dark gaia monsters so its up to sonic to see the monsters and destroy them 
 saving the people. other than that its really just pointless.... but theres chilidogs yay!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
 
  and then the two airplane levels one to spagonai and one to eggmanland. there bassicly just pounding 
 the buttons shown on the screens youll buttons will get a work out. Its good.
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  
  Graphics/Design-The characters (main) look like anime but the towns/hub 
 folks look like saturday morning cartoons. Some cutscenes are goofy that youd be watching in the 
 morning when you were a kid ,and others are epic that youd be watching in at like 9:00 in the night.
 
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  
  VA-Sonics voice has evolved from boring to amazing! Tails actually sounds like a boy, amy still 
 has an okay voice chips voice grows on you ,prof. pickles is okay, and sonic the werehogs is great!
 
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  Multiplayer-there is no multiplyer so it wont count. (Gameplay know counts 60%) .
  
  Music-It 
 grows on you but is really good on some stages.
  S-Perfect-10.10.
  
  Overall-i dont know why people hate this game its just as good as any sonic game made. its just 
 amazing.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: retroworld3000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 11:46 am PT
Review:  After a letdown on Sonic next-gen. Sega released a another Sonic game called Sonic Unleashed and 
 uses the Hedgehog Engine to make things better. When Sonic attacks Eggman's armada by becoming 
 Super Sonic with use of the chaos emeralds. Eggman broke Sonic's power and spilt open the entire 
 planet. Sonic got trapped by Eggman and transforms Sonic into a WEREHOG!! Half Hedgehog, half werewolf. 
 Sonic's running gameplay is much better than next-gen but the controls are still awkward since 
 you have to press square to do a homing attack rather than pressing X instead which is a letdown. 
 The stages in daytimes are sometimes Sidescrollers and some are 3D like Sonic Adventure. You also 
 play as Sonic's werehog form in nighttime stages. Sonic's werehog attacks are similar to Knuckles' 
 attacks but even better, there are puzzles to solve but the let down this in Sonic's daytime stages 
 are the lack of speed shoes and invincablity or shield power ups. It least Sonic's got his fast 
 speed back alright. But in Sonic's werehog nighttime stages dosen't have a time limit so yeah, 
 rather than losing rings then die with no rings. You have a life bar. Once that's empty, you're 
 dead. Werehog's attack are decent but you can build exp points by collecting exp bits by smashing 
 stuff and defeating stuff. If only Sega focuses on Sonic's MAIN gameplay like the classic retro 
 2D games has rather than Sonic having a sword, turning into a werehog and allsorts of like that. 
 Then Sonic games would if be better. Nice try Sega but not quite. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragonflyer123
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 5:35 pm PT
Review:  O. K so first off this is what happens in the review.
  The Good: Day stages turn out to be fun for sometime when your bored. The sound of day stages really 
 turn out really well.
  The Bad: Night stages are boring as you go through more and more of them. There are more Night 
 stages than Day stages. Its really annoying. Repetitive Music during night stages. Sonic should 
 have more phrases to say in Day Stages.
  
  O. K, SO I don't hate this game but they made a few problems OR probably lots and lots of problems. 
 First it used to be $60 then now its $50.. I thought it would be different from the 360 version 
 but they are exactly the same. Except this version I'm reviewing has more stuff like unlocking 
 trophies I think. But why would Sega make Sonic The Black Knight for Wii only. Why can't they put 
 it on more systems like Marvel: Ultimate Alliance did. 45% disappointment and 45% Great and 5% Crap. 
 I'm not trying to be funny and all but seriously when you get to empire city and do the 1st night 
 stage there, you WILL be way tooo bored playing it. I stopped at that part and took a break of 
 Sonic Unleashed for now. I will edit this review soon. 01/02/09
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed Review:
  
  Over 15 years from now Sonic the Hedgehog has been a big gaming icon over gaming history for many 
 years now and has been big icon over the world even through Anime/Cartoon shows to comic books.
 
  
  Main story is straight forward for anyone who has played through sonic games before. Where once 
 again Dr. Eggman is causing more trouble and trying to rule the world. But this time during a fight 
 in space, Sonic has harnessed the Chaos Emeralds and transformed into Super Sonic, dealing destructive 
 blows to Dr Eggman's precious machinery.
  However, unbeknownst to Sonic, he'd run head first into Dr .Eggman's most devious trap. Where suddenly 
 surrounded by high energy shield, which stripped him from his Super Sonic powers, while simultaneously 
 robbing him of the Chaos Emeralds. 
  Dr. Eggman had anticipated Sonic's transformation from outset, and saw this as the perfect opportunity 
 to procure the Emeralds. From the polarity of the Chaos Emeralds, They were releasing dark energy 
 inside turning Sonic into a Werehog. 
  
  After Dr. Eggman finished with his plan, Sonic had crashed landed on the world surface he meets 
 this pink creature called Chip. But it turns out that Chip has forgotten who he really and can't 
 remeber anything. When the sun rises Sonic had transformed back into his normal self again, so 
 Sonic and Chip have to stop Dr. Eggman and out the Chaos Emeralds back into each Temple before 
 the world is completely destroyed by Dark Gaia. 
  
  Gameplay: A lot f people were specting Sonic Unleashed to be good as the old Sega Mega Drive series 
 or the Sonic Adventure series on the Sega Dreamcast. But for most fans of the series Sonic Unleashed 
 is a disappointment similar to the last Sonic the Hedgehog game which was released almost 2 years 
 ago on PS3 and 360.
  
  Playing as Sonic is simply basic just reach to the end of the level but it does have a few 2D elements 
 through most levels but it is a 3D Sonic game not a proper 2D game like in the 90's. Sonic has 
 some new abilities but they just look the similar as the last sonic game where one of them is Light 
 Speed dash is where your press Triangle to collecting rings. Or wall jumping which you've probably 
 seen in other games like Tomb Raider or Prince of Persia series.
  
  You can also play as Werehog where Sonic is a werewolf type character and has a lot of gameplay 
 elements from games like God of War and Heavenly Sword. Where it's mostly button mashing against 
 enemies but the gameplay controls for Werehog is kind of fiddly but just simple button mashing 
 which you'll be doing a lot and using rings to restore health and darkness which you use Werehog 
 to do stronger attacks on enemies. There are also button re-action commands as well where you have 
 to quickly press a button to either dodge or attack enemies similar other games like Kingdom Hearts 
 2, Resident Evil 4 or God of War.
  
  But the whole Sonic game is just trying to be perfect as Super Mario Galaxy, which has a few tasks 
 which you'll need to do in order to get to another level or getting half a key which can be use 
 to make a key and which opens a boss battle. 
  But to do all of that you will be going up and down which can be annoying where you'll need a lot 
 of medals. Which have two symbols where sun medal are used for day time levels and moon medals 
 are used for night time levels. There are mini tasks in the game which mean nothing but there only 
 there for anyone who want trophies on PS3.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Ok something we can both agree on the graphics look great for a new sonic game 
 either during gameplay or during a cut scene making it feel more like an animated film. Down side 
 is that most levels are badly laid out and had been rushed completely. Playing in 3D or 2D the 
 levels still look disappointing and also the annoying camera control returns which you'll be complaining 
 about through out the whole game and also lead you to cheap deaths. 
  Most fans can see why Sonic Team and Sega are trying to make Sonic Unleashed a perfect game for 
 every as they can but they have completely rushed it so they can just put it on the market in time 
 before the holiday season.
  
  Voicing is quite well done but some voicing for some charcters are bit annoying and most music 
 is repetitive specially playing as Werehog where it's the same battle music over and over which 
 is annoying.
  But the main song is good to listen too if you loved the music done by Crash 40 but this time the 
 main theme song is called Endless Possibility by Jaret Reddick. 
  
  Overall: Most fans were looking forward to Sonic Unleashed because it was going to bring back 2D 
 style gameplay not 3D gameplay like most Sonic games have done. It turns out that the newest sonic 
 game is nothing more then a disappointment, broken gameplay controls and cheap deaths making you 
 feel like a fool.
  The full game can keep you busy for a few hours if you want all trophies but it is a let down and 
 it's not worth picking up if you haven't brought this game yet.
  
  There are moments in the game which are good like running down the Dragon stature in a level based 
 on China or helping Tails take out enemy ships and Eggman's airship. If there was going to be another 
 sonic game in a few years time keep the graphics the way they are but seriously need sort everything 
 else out not rushing everything all at once.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrossRunnerZero
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 2, 2009 12:35 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed is a game that features Sonic the Hedgehog and his adventure around the world. 
 Basically, the evil Dr. Eggman, Sonic's not-so-epic bad guy, managed to break the planet up into 
 pieces and transform Sonic into a werehog, which is a werewolf in the shape of Sonic. This werehog 
 transformation happens at night, while Sonic turns into his normal self at day. Then, Sonic runs 
 into a fairy thing named Chip, who inconveniently lost his memory, and now the two have to bring 
 the world back together. The story is decent, but the lack of signature Sonic characters like Shadow 
 can shy away a few Sonic fans.
  
  The gameplay is the main reason why the classification says "mixed reactions." There are two types 
 of levels: daylight levels that feature fast paced racing and nighttime levels that feature werehog 
 lethargy. 
  
  The daylight levels are great; they feature Sonic running at amazingly fast speeds through huge 
 levels and bring back what made Sonic great in the first place. Sonic has some speeding abilities 
 to choose from to get him past the levels, such as a ring boost that lets him walk on water like 
 you-know-who (I mean Naruto) and his trusty homing attack that lets him hit enemies and switches. 
 There are some bugs, such as the controller movements not registering, but they are forgivable. 
 Also, some acrobatic frustrations that require complete memorization of the specific feat exist, 
 and they tend to be a turn-off. Another negative aspect is the unexpected transitions from 2-D 
 to 3-D and vise-versa, which can make you lose control of Sonic. Thankfully, some transitions run 
 very smoothly. 
  
  The nighttime levels involve the werehog fighting through hoards of enemies and performing impossible 
 acrobatic feats. Even though this sounds fun, the nighttime levels should be renamed the nightmare 
 levels. The combat is decent; there is a nice supply of techniques but the movements are not fluid. 
 Also, the battles are not exciting. The acrobatic feats are a pain. These challenges involve swinging 
 on poles, balancing on poles, and climbing up poles. The actions that help the werehog overcome 
 these obstacles give it a more simian appearance than hedgehog appearance. The acrobatic obstacles 
 can be extremely frustrating to a person that cannot time his or her movements well. Also, the 
 camera does not always agree with the player. As a result, an innocent, automatic spin of the camera 
 could end up with Sonic falling into the abyss.
  
  Sonic can visit towns at different times of the day (basically, he can stand out in town looking 
 like a blue hedgehog or a werehog) . This system only helps to get the storyline moving, and even 
 though there are sidequests, they do not serve much purpose. In order to access levels, Sonic must 
 collect moon medals in order to get into nighttime levels and sun medals in order to get into daytime 
 levels. These are hidden in towns and stages, but collecting them can end up being a chore for 
 the average person. 
  
  The boss fights are actually pretty fun. The werehog boss battles usually involve some puzzle-thinking 
 instead of the mindless brawling in the nighttime stages. The daytime stages involve Sonic dodging 
 attacks in order to run up to a boss and give it a good homing attack on the head. 
  
  The visuals fall a little short of what a PS3 game should look like. Sometimes the frame is a little 
 shaky, though it is easy to get used to. There are also some half-second freezes in the game, and 
 though that may not seem like much, imagine you're in the middle of performing an impossible jump 
 that claimed fifty lives and then watching the game freeze and break your concentration. However, 
 the CG scenes are well detailed. Unfortunately, some scenes are short and then they cut to the 
 loading screen in order to prepare another short scene.
  
  The audio itself is great, but it is also the victim of most of the bugs, such as a weird static 
 sound in the background or no background music at all. However, if there are no audio bugs happening 
 while you are racing through a level, then the experience becomes natural. The music is wonderfully 
 harmonious towards the tone of the levels and of the boss fights. The voice acting is okay, even 
 though Chip's voice gets annoying sometimes.
  
  Sonic Unleashed is a positive step in the right direction. However, it is the single step of a 
 journey of a thousand miles. The game needs a plethora of improvements, but hard-core Sonic fans 
 and forgiving people with the need for speed (at least during the day) should play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Sonic Unleashed, a bit like that marmite advert, you either love it or you hate it. It really boils 
 down to 2 things, do you like fast paced platforming and beat em ups? If you like either 1 or both 
 then Sonic Unleashed is the game for you.
  
  The game starts of with Sonic fighting Eggman outside the Earths orbit, which literally blew me 
 away at how great the graphics of it were, eventually Eggman captures Super Sonic which seems to 
 be a trap, corrupting the Chaos Emeralds to resurrect Dark Gaia, but at the same time corrupts 
 are blue hedgehog into whats only known as a werehog. The awakening of Dark Gaia causes the planet 
 to break apart into 7 pieces. Sonic is then quickly sent away plummeting to the Earth with the 
 Chaos Emeralds, when he lands on a little... fairy thing.... which then after the first level decide 
 to call him Chip. Chip has forgotten his memory and it's up to you to save the planet from Eggman, 
 restore Chip's memory and the Chaos Emeralds. Later on in the game you find out who Chip really 
 is, what is purpose is and why Sonic hasn't evovled into Dark creatures like the others.
  
  The gameplay is very smooth with Sonic the Hedgehog, the sense of speed is amazing, at first it's 
 overwhelming but you'll get used to it very shortly. The level designs are your general Sonic, 
 fast paced, a couple of bad guys here and there and of course the Rings. Now the Rings serve as 
 more of a purpose then simply just to gain extra lifes and buying a couple of accessories, collecting 
 more Rings gives you Ring Energy, which is basically your boost, which you can run head on for 
 some enemies and defeat them. The Werehog sections remind me of Devil May Cry combat, with the 
 platforming and camera angle of Rayman 2, if you've played both games you'll see what I mean. The 
 combat is very addictive, but some of the platforming sections are ruined due to the camera, which 
 only seems to happen in later levels. Some people would say it reminds them of Crash, or combat 
 of God of War, you can relate the Werehog sections to quite a few games. There is a tiny bit of 
 slowdown, but again, only in the later levels. On your journey you'll have to collect Sun and Moon 
 Medals, which help you progress on your way, you'll need to collect both medals, so don't rush 
 through the level on your first time as it's unlikely you'll get a S rank. The cutscenes look beautiful, 
 the bosses are great if not repeptitive at times, but it's still fun and addictive.
  
  As for graphics in general, some of the shadows in the cutscenes look a bit rough, but when your 
 zipping around a level it's hardly noticeable. The enemies all look very nice and detailed and 
 sometimes admiring the view when Sonic is running on the whale in Holoska for example is amazing, 
 Sega really have worked hard on this.
  
  The difficulty is a mixed package, the early stages being easy and then later ramping slowly up 
 harder and harder. The final level just goes from being Normal to Very Hard, I wasted about 30 
 odd lifes getting through Eggmanland alone, more than the entire lifes of lost in the game so far. 
 Of course, this isn't the first time we've had an insanely hard last level in Sonic, look at Sonic 
 Heroes, and Sonic Adventure 2. The Werehog sections depend entirely on how good you are on beat 
 em ups, for example if you've mastered Devil May Cry or God of War, then you should have no problem 
 fighting the monsters.
  
  The soundtrack is probably the best I've heard in a Sonic game since Sonic Adventure DX Directors 
 Cut, my personally favourite being Shamar Day Time. The Night version is a remix of the Day songs, 
 so you've still got the same beat. For the Werehog sections there is a battle music, which resembles 
 Blue/Jazz music, which at first you'd think it wouldn't think but you might grow to like it eventually. 
 It's a bit like saying you'd put a love song in with God of War.... a very good one at that, which 
 wouldn't suit the mood of battle but you'd get used to it over due time.
  
  Theres 2 things I didn't expect from this game, Trophy Support and Custom Soundtrack, the Trophies 
 range from completing the game to getting all S ranks in Hedgehog and Werehog stages, which adds 
 in to the replay value. The Custom Soundtrack feature is great, but I only ever used it when I 
 was replaying stages for the 6th or 7th time.
  
  The replay value can add quite a bit to how many hours you rack in, you've got challenges at Hotdog 
 stands, which will ramp up the difficulty, making you collect, defeat, or get the fastest time. 
 Sega really has Unleashed Sonics full potential, with the polished graphics and gameplay being 
 highly addictive, your in for quite some time and fun. It's in my Top 10 PS3 games, and no I'm 
 not a Sonic fanboy, haven't played a Sonic game since Sonic Heroes properly, so if you've been 
 disappointed by Sonic games before hand, I recommend you buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: micah218
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 31, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is broken in camera and controls. Though in the sonic levels you can forgive 
 it because the fast speed and sonic platforming are still fun though you will have to work with 
 it a bit to get the feel of it. The wherehog sections are brutal, nasty, repetitive and take up 
 most of the gameplay. You will find yourself cursing sega and Sonic Team for making you go through 
 a video game nightmare just to play the next sonic level. The most frustrating thing about this 
 game is that it repeats the same mistakes that the last 4 sonic titles have had. I/3 sonic 3/4 
 crap, and though this is an improvement over sonic the hedgehog for 360 the fact that it repeats 
 mistakes the developers should of learned from make this game inexcusable. This is another nail 
 in sonics coffin. It will probably sell well simply for the sonic portions but I'm tired of paying 
 sixty dollars for a game that gives me 20 dollars worth of quality gaming. This game has pushed 
 me to a point of complete frustration with Sega and Sonic Team. I could make a better sonic game 
 in my sleep by adhering to 2 simple rules. Keep it fast, and keep it sonic. I get the feeling that 
 will never be so this might be a bitter parting for me and Sonic the hedgehog and instead of 
 
  going out with a bang it went out in a crap covered whimper. Thanx for killing my child hood hero 
 Sonic Team. If you ever read this I just want you to know you should be put under and the sonic 
 franchise should be taken away from you for its own good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonVic
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 31, 2008 8:27 am PT
Review:  Well first of all this game is not like the other ones, this game has some value to it.
  
  The sonic levels are fun to play. The werehog levels are moderately fun to play (if you like games 
 like Ninja Gaiden, Devil May Cry, or other beat em' up games) 
  
  The game can be challenging at times to play, but please do not get me wrong the levels are not 
 impossibly hard to play, but can possibly get frusrating due to some level take like 20 minutes 
 to get past and then the boss kill you and you are forced to do the level over again.
  
  The graphics are fantasic all the way around ranging from the cutscenes to the game play.
  
 
  The controls are good and easy to get used to, and the game play is smooth and no the game does 
 not play its self this time (if you put your controller down to let it finish the level you are 
 mistaken)
  
  The music is good and easy to get used to, and the voice acting is pretty good and if you are like 
 me and you do not like the english voice acting you can switch it to the japanese voice acting 
 with subtitles.
  
  The story is pretty creative this time around because this time the world get blown apart.
  
 
  Over all the game is worth buying if you are a sonic fan or if you just want to try it out. My 
 only warning is that this game can get pretty difficult so if your not a very good gamer you might 
 want to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: child_of_lileth
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 8:07 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw anything of this game, it was a long time ago when the first few screen shots 
 where leaked. This got me really hopeful and excited for one reason. That reason was that I saw 
 what looked like a 2.5-D Sonic game where I could play in an old side scrolling way. This kind 
 of hung around to the finished game, but there were other things added along the way. 
  
  First off, I've played through both the PS3 and Wii versions of the game, and this review will 
 be written in terms of the PS3 version unless stated otherwise. 
  
  This game brought a lot of of Sonic game play ideas, but it tried something new at the same time. 
 The main idea of the story is that Sonic has to restore the power of the Chaos Emeralds, and in 
 turn, repair the planet, which was separated into 7 chunks of planet that kind of float off of 
 the core, but for some reason never quite float away into space. I assume this is because of the 
 gravity of the core or something, but I'm getting off track here. The story isn't vital to the 
 game at all. It does however feel like a cartoon more than anything during the majority of it. 
 
  
  The main game play is split into 2 parts, and in the Ps3 version, you will have 2 levels of a 3rd 
 game play type that isn't featured in the Wii version. The first being regular Sonic. He is all 
 about speed and finding the most effective short cuts through the stage. Then there's the Werehog. 
 It plays a lot like an odd Streets of Rage kind of thing. Then there is the 2 levels of piloting 
 the Tornado and pressing on screen commands to shoot down matching enemies. 
  
  The Sonic levels work great. It's the first time in a long time where you will actually get a sense 
 that Sonic may actually be the fastest thing alive. You can upgrade Sonic's speed with experience 
 points you get from destroying enemies. The speed will be maxed out at level 11 and you can upgrade 
 the ring energy up to 6. These will both greatly effect how much faster he will be able to move, 
 how long his ring energy will last when being used, and how much each ring will give to his energy 
 meter. The ring energy is used to do a boost which makes Sonic run even faster, and allows him 
 to just plow through enemies instead of being hurt or stopped by them. 
  
  The Wii version is significantly different. First, the stats cant be permanently upgraded since 
 experience points dont exist in that version. The boost gauge is filled by collecting rings, and 
 this affects your max speed. the more rings you have, the faster you are allowed to move. Also 
 when boosting, it will only last for one section of the ring energy meter and then you just go 
 back to normal speed. In the PS3 version you can boost constantly until you run out of ring energy.
 
  
  The day time levels looks pretty good. There's nothing amazing here, but you move so fast that 
 a lot of time you wont really be paying attention to scenery anyway. The night time levels look 
 less detailed, and a lot of the areas look the same through the entire level. 
  
  The Werehog is where this game might break the deal for you. This is one of the more random ideas 
 they have thrown into the games in recent years. Basically you give up speed to be a big, bulky, 
 slow, powerhouse. There are around 30 or 31 combos to use as the Werehog. He is able to run, but 
 not as fast as you would want him to. He has the ability to stretch his arms for some reason, so 
 this is involved in most of the combat. You can upgrade everything in this form from health and 
 unleashed meter to strength and shield. The Unleashed meter works like the Devil Trigger in Devil 
 May Cry, but the unleashed meter doesn't heal you. There is also a system where if you beat an 
 enemy to less than half health, they will have the circle button displayed over them. If you press 
 it, you go into a button sequence. If you press everything correctly, they will die no matter how 
 much health was left, and will give more experience points. If you mess up this sequence, they 
 regain health and attack you without letting you block or avoid it. 
  
  The Wii version has only 5 levels to each upgrade, and only 3 stats to upgrade. There are no experience 
 points, so you gather Dark Gaia energy instead. Once you get so much, you get a preset upgrade. 
 You are never free to chose what improves or when. The shield is unlimited in the Wii version, 
 but in the PS3 version it has a set power level than will deplete with damage to it, and can be 
 restored. 
  
  Exclusive to the PS3/360 version is a Tornado mini game with 2 acts. One is early on in the game, 
 while the other is when you try to get to the 7th continent. The stages are just a level where 
 you have to press a button that shows up under an enemy to shoot them down. The plane moves on 
 a rail so you cant actually control anything other than if it shoots or not. Its nothing special, 
 but it is kind of fun for a break form the action. 
  
  Most of the game deals with exploring each continent and trying to find the temple there to restore 
 the emeralds. The continent phases are extremely different in each version. In the PS3 version, 
 you get to run around the towns and talk to everyone, do missions, and buy stuff at the shops. 
 In the Wii version, you get a screen with icons to click. Both versions require Sun and Moon medals 
 to unlock stages. The Wii version just hands the medals over to you at the end of stages. You can 
 get up to 3 in most stages. The PS3 version makes you hunt them down. There are random amounts 
 of each medal in each stage. The Wii version doesn't require any real number for the main stages, 
 but the PS3 version does. This gets kind of annoying when you need a large amount to just progress 
 in the main story, but you don't know where the missing medals are located. In all, there are 200 
 of each medal in the PS3 version, and I'm not positive how many are in the Wii version. 
  
  The PS3 version also has a few levels not in the Wii version. One continent in the Wii version 
 is just a boss fight and the picture with icons, while the PS3 version has the full set of levels. 
 
  
  Overall, this game isn't bad to me, but there are a few things that really weren't needed at all. 
 This game gave us a Sonic game about Sonic, which was a very welcome change. For the first time 
 in years, we got a Sonic game where we didn't have stop the action to hunt the Master Emerald, 
 use teamwork, be an emo hedgehog, or anything else that takes away form the fun. The werehog is 
 something that you either like or you hate. I ended up liking it, and some other people will too. 
 I recommend renting this game first just cause the downloadable demo doesn't let you play a night 
 stage. If you are an old school Sonic fan, and can put up with the werehog, you will probably love 
 this game. Also people complain way too much about the Sonic stages being too fast. If you have 
 slow eyes and bad reaction times, don't blame the game for your own problems. It's a Sonic game. 
 If you don't like speed, don't play the Sonic games. Its that simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swordmaster33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  ever since the PS3, Wii came out the sonic games were a total letdown. 
  In this review i will explain why this game doesn't have potential.
  
  Story: Dr Eggman "breaks" 
 the planet into 7 pieces. Sonic somehow turns into a "werehog". The chaos emeralds lose their powers 
 and in order to restore the planet back to it's original form sonic must first restore the power 
 of the chaos emeralds by visiting each gaia temple. His helper is Chip (a weird animal who has 
 suffered amnesia) .
  The story isn't half bad, let's just say its something "different" than the other sonic games.
 
  
  Graphics: the graphics are really attractive and the architecture used for the cities and towns 
 is really eye-catching. We can see that the designers have designed the cities in relation to places 
 like Spain for example.
  
  Game play: now here is where the game gets sour. There are two modes when playing this game- daytime: 
 sonic, nighttime: werehog.
  
  Daytime: sonic 
  what's special about this game is that you run really fast with sonic in the stages. By collecting 
 rings you can achieve a "boost" which enables you to go even faster than the regular speed limit.
 
  However, in my opinion, i find it really hard to control sonic when in boost and sometimes it 
 is quite easy falling off the ground, getting hit by something painful, etc.
  Now what i am really disappointed with both modes of playing with sonic is the time taken to complete 
 stages. When playing in daytime, the stages take far too long AND I MEAN FAR TOO LONG!!! What happened 
 to the quick short stages in SAB2? The annoying part is this:
  start of stage- "great, wow im really good at this.....
  middle-awesome!! 164 rings and a score 
 of 45000!!!
  close to end of stage- *falls to the sea by accident, loses all rings and score.*
  end of stage- 
 *gets a D*
  yeah that pretty much sums it up. It gets really frustrating when this happens to you.
  But, 
 it's OK because you just have to get used to it. Before you know it you will actually try enjoying 
 it.
  
  Nighttime: Werehog
  AGHHHH this is where the game gets worse, sadly.
  In difference to daytime sonic, the stages are totally different and so is the game play. With 
 the werehog you fight monsters by applying different fighting techniques. There are so many types 
 of fighting skills which is really fun to use. But in order to unlock more you have to gain experience 
 and add that experience to the combat meter. 
  In nearly all stages you will have to climb, hang, balance on ropes, jump up press O and try not 
 to fall. i hate what the programmers and designers have done with it. It just seems so hard to 
 jump hang on stuff and try not to fall and it really pisses you off when you die and lose all rings 
 and score. The camera angles ARE SO ******* BAD IN THIS GAME that it makes it even more hard to 
 accomplish stages. For ex: i am balancing on a rope and i try to rotate the camera angle so that 
 i find it easier to balance but it doesn't rotate.
  when climbing and hanging, it is really easy to fall off and in order to hang onto the other ledge 
 or circles you must act quickly.
  oh yeah and again, stages take far too long to finish. one stage took me 14min min to finish 14 
 MINUTES TO FINISH A FU***** STAGE. What were the programmers thinking!!!! do they think its fun 
 to waste 14 minutes on a stage!? what happened to those 1-3 min sonic stages?
  when you gain purple orb things that monsters drop you can reach a point called unleash where you 
 power increases.
  you can also guard yourself by using shield but in my opinion its useless. The Werehog is slow 
 when carrying things or sliding boxes, you can go faster with L2 but its still slow.
  
  Things to take in mind: 
  -really long loading time...
  - turning day into night or vice versa 
 even takes more loading time.
  -annoying camera angles which don't rotate when you want them to or just get's s**ewd up somehow.
 
  
  Experience points:
  when defeating monsters or passing stages you gain experience points which are used to improve 
 regular sonic 
  -speed
  -ring energy
  
  for werehog you can improve his
  -combat
  -attack
  -life
  -unleash
  -shield
  
  Sound/Audio:
  7 out of 10
  music get's quite 
 repetitive and sonic should be saying more cool phrases in stages.
  
  items:
  you can buy food and other special items at the NPC'S in each city which is good. AND THERE'S CHILI 
 DOGS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SONIC'S FAVORITE!
  
  cut scenes: nothing to complain about.
  
  Tornado stages: sometimes you will have to use the tornado to complete a stage. This stage consists 
 of pushing buttons quickly and destroying the machines. It is OK but sometimes you have to act 
 really quick to the commands.
  
  Well, sonic unleashed isn't as bad as other sonic games such as sonic and the secret rings or sonic 
 06 but if SEGA doesn't take the sonic franchise seriously people like me are gonna start hating 
 it.
  Sometimes i ask myself, "what happened to those Nintendo Gamecube sonic games such as SAB2, SONIC 
 GEMS COLLECTION, sonic heroes and others like sonic adventure for the DC and sonic battle for the 
 gba?"
  So please, please, please SEGA don't change sonic, keep sonic the way it was.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: PanPizza15
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 24, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  SONIC UNLEASHED IS AN EPIC FAIL
  
  I'm sorry, I tried to like it, I really did, but it's like thing that just eats away at my sanity 
 bit by bit. At 1st I was saying, this isn't so bad, I'll take these guys word for it, I'll try 
 to continue, I can get through these werewolf stages and hub worlds. I can't stand it anymore, 
 it's not like a bad game where I can turn it off and forget about it. It's just leaves me in anger 
 and hate towards who ever approved of this and it's not going away until I blow hole through my 
 head or express how much hate I have for this.
  
  Now let me say, I did not finish this game because I could not put up with more of this Bull!@#. 
 I stopped playing when I went to the China level because I had no idea where I'm suppose to go 
 or what I'm suppose to do to move on to the next stage. Yes, I know I'm suppose to find an elderly 
 woman's husband, I just can't open the next level portal because I need some key blade thing. I 
 just gave up and decided this is not at all worth my time when I could be playing a good game or 
 writing about it to make myself feel better.
  
  Yea, this IS better than Sonic 06, but not by much. I wrote 7 pages on how much I hate Unleahsed. 
 Every little nit picky detail, every little glitch, every unresponsive command buttons.
  
  When I 1st played it, I was like "Wow, this is an incredible introduction, the CGI is as good as 
 Pixar, Chip is funny and reminds me of the 1st Sonic cartoon series, the 1st level was great, this 
 wont be a bad game after all." but it just turned sour.
  
  WEREWOLF (YOU DON'T SAY WEREHUMAN DO YOU?)
  
  My 1st complaint is the Werewolf. Now I never 
 played God of War, or Heavenly Sword, so I really have no current brawler to compare it to. You 
 people say there is no bad camera. I really hope you people don't become programmers. While I'm 
 basing every button on the controller, killing neon heartless guys, the camera always seems to 
 move behind a tree or I'm hidden behind an enemy. I can't see what I'm doing. Really doesn't matter 
 since it takes no skill. Platforming as Werewolf Sonic is a joke. There's always some ledges that 
 WereSonic can't climb over. It's pathetic, he should be able to do this automatically. I shouldn't 
 have to jump to get over a small incline the height of Sonic's shoe.
  
  BALANCING
  That balancing parts are broken. The camera is fixed to be at an angle. When I move the camera, 
 It just movies slightly to a direction and just shakes as if someone was pulling the camera out 
 of a wall it's nailed too. I just want the camera to be straight as I'm waling over the tight rope.
 
  
  COMBAT
  
  Combat feels like it was from a terrible movie licensed game. Why does the Werewolf have to stand 
 still to attack. This is a Sonic game, I should just be able to slash through the enemies killing 
 them as I run. I guess I'll get a running attack when I level up enough. If Sega was going to make 
 a beat em'up on Sonic, it should have been a fast paced brawler like Turtles in Time. In Turtles 
 in Time, the enemies take about 2 hits to kill and you get finished with the level in just a minute 
 or 2. It was fast and simple, and didn't take up so much time. Here, I should not have to take 
 18 minutes on 1 level in a Sonic game. That's about as bad as Knuckles' finding the Emerald Stage. 
 I rather be finding emeralds in SA1 and 2 because it feels a lot less of a chore and is much easier.
 
  
  ANNOYING CUTSCENES
  
  A lot of the times, I walk into a room or something and the game stops you so it can show a door 
 closing behinds you, an enemy appearing or a platform. I get the point, I'm not suppose to go back, 
 I see the enemy, does it have to stop me just to show the obvious. Often in a game, it'll pause 
 me just to show some obstacle or where I'm suppose to go in the over world area. It doesn't happen 
 once, it happens every time you go to these areas. I saw it the 1st time, don't show me again. 
 This is just bad programming. Every time I encounter an enemy the same jazz music just comes up. 
 It's nice at 1st, but it gets really old if you have to hear it 30 times in 1 level. Also, do the 
 robots appearing remind anyone of Space Channel 5?
  
  GIANT KRYSTAL KEY THING
  
  Often I have to carry a crystal thing to some place to open a door. When you grab these crystal 
 things, Werewolf Sonic holds it over his head and walks as slow as possible to put it in the place 
 you need to place it. Look at Sonic Adventure 1, regular Sonic has to put a crystal thing to open 
 the Windy Valley Stage. In that game, Sonic can run full speed while carrying it. So can the rest 
 of his friends. Why does Weresonic walk 5mph while carrying the cystal thing and regular Sonic 
 can go full speed?
  
  CHALLENGE
  
  Yes, this game is hard, but not hard in a satisfying way. I go through a stage saying, "Glad I'll 
 never have to do that again." This isn't a fair hard, it's just badly programmed. The enemies are 
 too over powered. Grabbing a lever or a box is unresponsive. I have to press the grab button several 
 times to get a hold of something. When I'm on a pole, I try to jump on to another pole but I can't 
 do that. Sometime the jump button wont work. I try press right jump, until I realize you just have 
 to press jump, slight delay and werewolf Sonic will finally jump.
  
  QUICK TIME EVENTS
  
  Now, I hate Quick Time Events. There in so many games, it's just been so over used. Just to 
 name a few.
  God of War
  Resident Evil 4
  Heavenly Sword
  Force Unleashed
  Mercenaries 2
  Sewer Shark
  Spiderman 3
  Marvel Ultimate Alliance
  This game takes Quick 
 Time Events to a whole new level of over use. When you make a large jump as Sonic, it's a Quick 
 Time. You get on some launcher thing, quick time. As Werewolf Sonic, I sometime activate a Quick 
 Time without knowing it. I bash buttons like crazy and it goes into some quick time event, as I 
 keep hitting the bad guy, he picks me up and throws me on the ground and I lose a quarter of my 
 health. When I get knocked down, press more buttons rapidly. Opening a door, pulling a lever, moving 
 a crank, it's insane.
  
  THE TORNADO
  
  The kicker that blows Quick Time to all time low is the Tornado sky chases. When I 1st saw that 
 Sonic and Tales go on the Tornado to fly to the next level, I thought "Aw right, it's going to 
 be like Sonic Adventure and Star Fox." But I was sadly disappointed. Instead of giving you control 
 to fly around, shooting at Robotnics flying robot guys, it's just big quick time event. I have 
 to shoot the missiles depending on what button it tells me it hit. It's not hard since I memorized 
 the controller, it's just incredibly dull. I don't want to do this. This what we were doing back 
 on the Sega CD, it was a fail back then and it still fails now. Sega, you made the Sega CD, didn't 
 you learn from your passed mistakes? If they were going to make a big quick time event out of the 
 Tornado stage, couldn't they at least make it look like I'm watching a movie? The camera is just 
 behind the Tornado, it should be going at dramatic angles to make it look more intense. Sega, if 
 you're going to screw up a game with Quick Time Events, do it right.
  
  OVER WORLD MAP
  
  When you play a Sonic, what do you want to be doing most of the time? Playing the actual game. 
 Here, you spend more time in the exploration hub than the actual Sonic and Werewolf parts of the 
 game. Let's look back in Sonic Adventure. You simply walk to some location and trigger a cut scene 
 and able to move on to the next level. Sometime you're just guessing on where you need to go but 
 I can stand it. In Adventure 2, they remove the Hub map and let you go straight to the game. They 
 did this for the rest of the Sonic games until Sonic 06, but I don't want to talk about that game. 
 In this game, you get have to keep talking to people. I don't care what these people say, I just 
 talk until I trigger something. I find myself not knowing where to go or what I'm suppose to do. 
 I've spent more time talking to people and wondering around that actually playing the game. This 
 is ridiculous. No game should do this. I just want to play the game, let me move on.
  
  DAY TO NIGHT SWITCH
  
  Switching from day to night in the hub world is big pain. In the areas 
 you're allowed to talk to people, you can just press start and select "Wait for night/day" you 
 then wait through a 15 second loading time. That's bad enough but when you go to the Hub areas 
 in with the levels to select, everything changes. Instead of the Day to Night changer in the pause 
 screen, you have to hit some hour glass. Why? Why can't I just switch off in the pause menu? Sometime 
 as I play as Sonic, I hit these hourglasses by accident using the homing button. I have to wait 
 15 seconds for it to switch to night, then I have to hit the hourglass to switch back in another 
 15 seconds. This is bull!@#, why can't it have an "Are you sure" message?
  
  HUB WORLD CONTROLS
  
  Walking around in the Hub Worlds with people to talk to is a pain. Sonic 
 just walks way too slow, and he does not have the most accurate jump at all. When you jump and 
 do a homing attack, Sonic will fly forward and then just goes straight down. This doesn't make 
 sense, when you throw a ball; the ball doesn't just go straight and suddenly turns at a 90 degree 
 angle downward. When your on the hub that lets you select a level, Sonic is at regular control 
 when he's playing his speed levels. These controls weren't meant to be used on small areas for 
 exploring. Sonic goes way too fast and often falls off a cliff or goes into water. He's also just 
 so slippery; you can't jump on platforms with out falling off or going over them. I feel like I'm 
 on Roller Skates.
  
  MORE ANNOYING CUTSCENES
  
  The Hub World also has even more annoying cut scenes. In the Africa hub, you go near some area 
 where the next werewolf level is it happens. The game stops you, just to show you the next level 
 is up a tree. I saw when I got hear, I don't need to see it. When I died or quit the level, I left 
 and came back and it shows you the same Cut scene again. Why? Do they think I would forget? This 
 also happens in the China land level. Maybe the later levels this happens. I don't know. I stopped 
 playing this game at the China Hub because I can't figure out where to go or what I'm supposed 
 to do. I had enough of this game.
  
  LEVEL SELECT
  
  Sonic games are supposed to be quick and easy games I can play 5 minutes before I go somewhere. 
 I just want to play a quick game and I'll be on my way, but I can't, why? Because of no Level select 
 menu. You're on some hub area after beating a stage; you want to go back play a different leave. 
 You have to go back to the hub with people to talk to. Wait 10 seconds for a loading screen. Then 
 walk back to the exit. Wait another 10 seconds to get to the level select menu. Select your area, 
 and then wait 10 more seconds. Go to the level select hub. Wait 10 more seconds. Select the level 
 and wait 15 seconds. Then you can finally play the level you want. Why can't there just be a level 
 select on the pause menu? In Sonic Adventure 1 and 2, you could play a time trial and just go to 
 the level you want. Here, there is no such thing. It should not be such a pain to get to a level 
 I want to go. If your going to have a main Hub World as the level select, make it a small area. 
 Look at Mario Galaxy and Crash Bandicoot games. The Hub is a small area that takes a few seconds 
 to get to the level you want.
  
  SOUND
  
  In Sonic's stage, you hear him say "Yea! Wooooo! Doing Good!" every 20 seconds, they couldn't program 
 more reactions like "Gotta Juice!" or "Extreme!" In the werewolf stage, every time you encounter 
 a group of enemies, a music track will pop up. It's so annoying to hear that so many times.
  
  SEWER AREA
  There's this one scene that pisses me off. At the British area, you find this 
 elevator. To open it, you have to turn into a werewolf to pull a lever. It takes 15 seconds to 
 make it night time, once you pull the lever, the elevator opens. You go in and wait another 15 
 seconds to get to an underground sewer system. I assume you have to get across a giant stretch 
 of water, so I turn into Sonic in another 15 second loading time. I don't know what I'm suppose 
 to do. So I give up and turn into a werewolf for another loading screen. It's just a pain to get 
 through some of these parts since it's a big waist to go through these loading times.
  
  FLAGPOLES
  
  Weird thing to complain about but the flag poles bother me. Here, there's some 
 flag poles sticking out of the wall so Sonic can bounce higher. In Sonic Advance, Sonic and his 
 friends would grab the flagpole and sling shot their way up. In Unleashed, Sonic just bounces on 
 the flagpole like a trampoline. It goes on, way too slow.
  
  SLED RIDE
  
  Playing as Sonic in the snow area is very unfair. At one point, you are going through this large 
 half pipe tunnel on a sled. It would be fun except for the Ice Spike Ball things. They just blend 
 it with the half pipe, you can't see them. They're just a slightly different shade of white than 
 the environment. Is it fair? No, you won't know to avoid it unless you memorized this.
  
  SPEED
  
  This is strange to complain about but Sonic movies way to fast. Some obstacles that 
 Sonic can die from tripping over don't contrast well with the background. You don't know what's 
 coming unless you played this before and memorized the game. What if I made a racing game and I 
 have a brick wall suddenly appear in front of you with no warning. Is that a challenge? Or is that 
 unfair?
  
  --------------THE GOOD PARTS --------------
  
  STORY
  
  I love the story. The intro was incredible. I don't see why Sega doesn't make a CGI movie. I love 
 Chip, at 1st, I thought he looked like Aero the Acrobat and felt he was just going to be another 
 annoying character. He's hilarious, it's like he came straight out of the early Sonic cartoon. 
 This fits with the Sonic universe. I'm glad they didn't make another character like Shadow or Silver 
 saying "I'm so bad, I have a dark pass, I need to do something to save everyone" because that's 
 just lame. You can't take those characters seriously.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Everything is so clean and animates smoothly. They don't recycle the 
 NPCs in the hub areas. Worlds are bright an colorful. The Hub worlds are just so full of detail. 
 When you look at Sonic 06, it was just this bland, generic city. Here, the designers really put 
 a lot of time into the design. The only problem is Werewolf Sonic. His fur looks terrible and has 
 some weird graphical glitch. Conker from the last generation X-Box looked batter and so does the 
 Bee Queen from Mario Galaxy. The Graphics get a little choppy playing Werewolf Sonic at times. 
 This is probably one of the best looking games on the PS3 and 360.
  
  SOUND
  
  The music is very catchy; the orchestra does an amazing job. I love how they use the Sound effects 
 from passed games. I don't mind the voice work. It's is strange to hear large Yu-Gi-Oh's voice 
 come out of Prof. Pickle's mouth but I don't care.
  
  CHILE DOGS
  F*** Yea! Chile Dogs.
  
  SONIC STAGES
  
  This is the only fun you'll have with the game. 
 Sonic stages are fun, and feel a great sense of speed. There's really not much to say about this. 
 If only the whole game was like this.
  
  --------------HOW TO IMPROVE THIS GAME --------------
  
  HUB WORLD
  
  Get rid of the Hub 
 World. I think the only reason they put this in the game was because they wanted to make the game 
 longer just so people will have to buy it since they wont have the time to beat it when they rent 
 it. Just work off Sonic Adventure 2 idea. They got rid of the over world areas. I just want to 
 play a quick Sonic, game, get in, get out, I'm done. I had fun and not a lot of time spent. It's 
 really bad design when you have to spend more time on the hub than the actual game.
  
  GIMMICS
  
  Sega, we do not want to find emeralds as Knuckles, play a slow generic beat em'up 
 as a Werewolf, fish, use guns, levitation puzzles or any other random stuff added in. I just want 
 to play as Sonic. If your going to add more playable characters, be like the early Sonic games 
 and Sonic Advance. All the characters played the same except some small variation like flying or 
 gliding. The only good variation was Tails and Amy from SA1 but they were just slower and broken 
 versions of Sonic's game play.
  
  CONTROLS
  
  Put more time into Sonic's movement. It should not take so many tries to got on one small platform 
 because of Sonic slipping off. Look at Adventure 1, I could control Sonic without him sliding all 
 around, and slipping off ledges. You can stop suddenly on control in Adventure. Was it realistic? 
 No, but it worked fine and I didn't suffer so many cheap deaths.
  
  
  
  Well I feel better after writing all that in 1 sitting. 
 I just know someone at Sega will read this, but they wont care. It's clear Sega doesn't care about 
 making their games good anymore. No matter how bad they make a Sonic game, the fanbase is going 
 to buy it anyway. You know what's going to happen next. Sega will say they'll have a new gameplay 
 mode and design team. The fans will stop praising Unleashed and say "Unleashed wasn't so great, 
 Sega will get it right this time" and then the cycle continues and Sonic will continue to get worse 
 and worse until the fans realize how bad these games are and stop buying them. Let me tell you 
 something, a fan doesn't call every Sonic game great. A real Sonic fan will be willing to admit 
 the problems with the game and not suck up to Sega as if they had decent programmers. I'd tell 
 you to stop buying Sonic games but that's not going happen. 10 year olds will buy it, the large 
 fanbase will buy it and Sega will just get rich off games with little to no effort.
  
  There, I spent 3 hours writing this just to make keep myself from going insane and blowing my brains 
 out. If you disagree with me then write me some hate mail. I love hate mail. Don't ever say this 
 is anywhere near Sonic's best because he could do a whole lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshBagwell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2008 8:54 am PT
Review:  Its been a while sense there has been a decent sonic game. Well Sega fixed that. This game brings 
 back that feels of what Sonic should be about, Speed. Its has great story and good looking cutscenes. 
 Not as great looking as the last sonic games cutscenes, but hey if you have to sacrifice alittle 
 graphics for good gameplay thats fine with me. Game is alittle challenging because of the fast 
 speed, but if you a sonic fan this is a must own game. Plus it has an RPG feel to it when you level 
 both Sonic and Werehog Sonic up. Only downside is Werehog sonic is slow. Granted you can level 
 up his speed but i have gotten to level 3 or higher so i dont know if it really does make all that 
 much of a difference.
  So if you worried about wasting money on another Sonic game this one is worth it. Go out and wither 
 buy or if you hesitant rent it, but check it out 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
