-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Soulcalibur IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/soulcaliburiv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Online play is smooth and hassle-free.
 Plenty of different characters, plus you can make your own.
 Gameplay is accessible for newcomers and has plenty of depth for veterans.
 Tower of Lost Souls mode offers plenty of single-player challenge.
 Looks great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There's no team battle mode.
 Story mode is short and disappointing.
 You can't pit Yoda against Darth Vader, yet.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jul 30, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.5, 60 Review (s)
User Score: 8.6, 2,623 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Namco Bandai Games
Developer: Project Soul
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Jul 29, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Soulcalibur returns with the same deep fighting system and a new online mode that makes it an easy 
 game to recommend. "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"        Soulcalibur 
 IV Review for PlayStation 3 - GameSpot                                   function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 
 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =               The Video Review               

 Yoda and Vader invade this video review for Soulcalibur 4.       Watch It   Watch HD 520p       
           The Good            Online play is smooth and hassle-free  &nbsp;      Plenty of different 
 characters, plus you can make your own  &nbsp;      Gameplay is accessible for newcomers and has 
 plenty of depth for veterans  &nbsp;      Tower of Lost Souls mode offers plenty of single-player 
 challenge  &nbsp;      Looks great.                The Bad            There's no team battle mode 
  &nbsp;      Story mode is short and disappointing  &nbsp;      You can't pit Yoda against Darth 
 Vader, yet.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's this?        
        Update:  Extra Character    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:41 pm PT      Though it wasnt possible 
 when SoulCalibur IV arrived in stores, Darth Vader and Yoda  can now be pitted against each other 
  regardless of which platform youre playing on. Adding an extra Star Wars character to your 
 roster isnt free, though, and at around five dollars its not great value either. &nbsp; 
               

  When Soul Calibur was released for the Dreamcast in 1999, it set a new standard for fighting games 
 on home consoles. Subsequent entries in the series have changed very little as far as the weapon-based 
 fighting mechanics are concerned, and have introduced new features and gameplay modes with varying 
 success. Soulcalibur IV is no different in that respect; the series-first online play is a great 
 addition, but though the visuals have improved and the gameplay has undoubtedly evolved, it still 
 feels very familiar. And that's no bad thing.  

           There are plenty of familiar faces on the roster.      

  The majority of the characters 
 on Soulcalibur IV's roster will also be familiar if you're a fan of the series, though only around 
 half of the 30-plus combatants are available at the outset, including Yoda on the Xbox 360 and 
 Darth Vader on the PlayStation 3. Others are unlocked by defeating them in the single-player Story 
 and Arcade modes, and by purchasing them with the gold that you're awarded for winning fights. 
 There's more than enough variety on the roster to ensure that you can enjoy playing as at least 
 a handful of different characters, and a robust customization system gives you the freedom both 
 to edit their appearances and to create your own fighters from scratch.  

  Regardless of who you play as, Soulcalibur IV is accessible enough that even first-time players 
 will have no trouble performing some powerful and great-looking moves. Rather than memorizing lengthy 
 combo attacks and knowing  how  to attack your opponent, the challenge here comes from knowing 
  when  to attack, when to block, and when to sidestep around the arena. That's not to say that 
 the combatants in Soulcalibur IV don't have impressively large repertoires of moves, because they 
 do, it's just that very few of them are tough to pull off.  

  Your goal in Soulcalibur IV, of course, is to defeat your opponent by depleting his or her health 
 bar. Alternately, you can win by knocking your opponent out of the "ring," which is possible in 
 almost all of the game's beautifully realized arenas. New to the series -- though reminiscent of 
 a feature in 1997's Soul Blade -- is the soul-gauge system, which appears alongside the health bar 
 and changes color if you spend too much of your time blocking attacks and not retaliating with 
 your own. When the gauge turns red and your health bar starts flashing, you're just an attack or 
 two away from entering a defenseless "soul crush" state, at which point your opponent can perform 
 a one-hit-kill critical-finish move. It takes a long time for that to happen, so the soul gauge 
 isn't always an effective deterrent as far as overly defensive players are concerned, but it at 
 least discourages online players from trying to score cheap victories simply by landing a couple 
 of blows and then blocking until the time runs out.  

           Finally, you can put your skills with your favorite character to the test online.     

  Online play is where Soulcalibur IV really shines, though there aren't many different modes of 
 play available. The action is fast-paced and free of lag for the most part, though if you have 
 a slow Internet connection, you might find that your character takes a split-second longer to respond 
 to your inputs than you're used to, which can prove fatal against a skilled opponent. You can choose 
 to play ranked battles online against random opponents or join up to three other players in an 
 unranked lobby, in which the winner of each round gets to stay in the fight as spectators get their 
 turn in the ring. Both Arcade and Special modes of play are available online, the difference being 
 that in Special mode all of the characters' move lists are augmented by special skills bestowed 
 on them in part by weapon and clothing choices. Disappointingly absent from Soulcalibur IV, both 
 online and offline, is an option to pit teams of fighters against one another. Team battles have 
 appeared in the series previously, and given that the tagging mechanic is present in the single-player 
 Tower of Lost Souls mode, its omission is baffling.  

  Considering that Arcade mode does nothing new and Story mode is really short and text-heavy, the 
 new Tower of Lost Souls mode is where you'll find the majority of Soulcalibur IV's compelling single-player 
 content. Taking control of one to three fighters, you must ascend (and later descend) the tower 
 one floor at a time by defeating multiple groups of enemies without ever having your health replenished. 
 Variety comes courtesy of opponents with carefully tailored skill sets, as well as battle-specific 
 challenges that can be completed to unlock treasure chests containing new armor and weapons. For 
 example, you might have to defeat three fighters who all have the ability to leech health from 
 you, or who are impossible to force out of the ring. Optional challenges during these fights can 
 be completed by meeting very specific conditions, such as landing the final blow as the timer ticks 
 down to zero, performing four or more counter hits, or for defeating all opponents by knocking 
 them out of the ring. As you ascend the tower, the difficulty level can ramp up pretty quickly, 
 and you might find that you have to revisit the character-customization mode to prepare your chosen 
 combatant for certain challenges.     "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01//EN"  
       Soulcalibur IV Review for PlayStation 3 - Page 2 - GameSpot                              
      function do_rbx_ctrk_netxp1 (aElem, iTrkId, cTrkPrefix) { var imgElem =  
 if (! imgElem) { return true; } if (! aElem. rbxCPrefixed) { aElem. rbxCPrefixed = true; var destUri 
 =  var newUri = cTrkPrefix + destUri; aElem. href = newUri; } return 
 true; } function do_rbx_itrk_netxp1 (parentId, iTrkId, iTrkUri) { if (! document. images) { return 
 false; } var imgId = iTrkId; var imgElem =  if (! imgElem) { var 
 parentElem =  if (! parentElem) { return false; } var imgElem 
 = document. createElement ('img') ; if (! imgElem) { return false; } imgElem. id = imgId; imgElem. src 
 = iTrkUri; imgElem. alt = ''; imgElem. width = '1'; imgElem. height = '1';  
 } return true; }   ON   The Insider :  Madonna Better After Horse Accident    //               
 GAMES:     GameSpot     GameFAQs     MUSIC:     Last. fm     MP3. com     MOVIES:     Metacritic 
     Movietome     TV:     TV. com                    GameSpot. com                Search         
                       iPhone Gaming:  With over 8000 games on the iPhone, we decided...        
        Terminator Salvation Q&amp; A:  Producer Per Juhlen explains...               Fallout 3: 
 Broken Steel DLC Q&amp; A:  Designer Al Nanes...               X-Men Origins: Wolverine Launch Center: 
  Hes the best...                    home        PC      Xbox 360      Wii      PS3      PS2 
      PSP      DS        community      forums      videos      cheats      features      downloads 
      sports      tech      news            Reviews     Previews     Cheats     Answers     New 
 Releases     Top Games     All PS3 Games     PlayStation Network     Tech Center          Theme: 
   Light    Dark            Sign In    Create your account    Help    Forgot Password?          
                              Add Game       Tag       Print       Email       Facebook       Digg 
                              Soulcalibur IV Review          

 Soulcalibur returns with the same deep fighting system and a new online mode that makes it an easy 
 game to recommend.               The Good            Online play is smooth and hassle-free  &nbsp; 
      Plenty of different characters, plus you can make your own  &nbsp;      Gameplay is accessible 
 for newcomers and has plenty of depth for veterans  &nbsp;      Tower of Lost Souls mode offers 
 plenty of single-player challenge  &nbsp;      Looks great.                The Bad            There's 
 no team battle mode  &nbsp;      Story mode is short and disappointing  &nbsp;      You can't pit 
 Yoda against Darth Vader, yet.                      After The Fact:  Reviews Revisited        What's 
 this?               Update:  Extra Character    Posted: Nov 4, 2008 12:41 pm PT      Though it 
 wasnt possible when SoulCalibur IV arrived in stores, Darth Vader and Yoda  can now be pitted 
 against each other  regardless of which platform youre playing on. Adding an extra Star Wars 
 character to your roster isnt free, though, and at around five dollars its not great 
 value either. &nbsp;               

   

  How you go about customizing or creating a character for Soulcalibur IV depends on the use that 
 you have in mind for the character. For Arcade mode, the only thing you need to concern yourself 
 with is how your character looks, and you'll find that the number of armor pieces and weapons available 
 for you to choose from increases quite dramatically as you spend time playing. For other modes, 
 you'll have to consider the pros and cons of everything that you equip, even if that means ending 
 up with a character who looks like he or she has just stepped out of a medieval thrift store. That's 
 because just about every item has an impact, not only on your basic attack, defense, and health 
 attributes, but also on the distribution of skill points, which fall into five distinct categories 
 labeled power, impact, boost, gauge, and special. For example, equipping an executioner's breastplate 
 will give you 30 power skill points to spend and will boost your attack and defense attributes, 
 but at the expense of health points. There are dozens of items to choose from, and they're balanced 
 so that it's possible for you to make more specialized fighters but not to gain an unfair advantage. 
 Even skills such as temporary invisibility, unblockable attacks, and health recovery -- which on 
 paper sound like they'd break the game -- are kept in check because to get any real benefit from 
 them you have to forgo spending skill points in other areas. It's worth mentioning that more powerful 
 (and costly) skills can be used only if you've played your character enough to reach a certain 
 "style level," but reaching the level-nine cap doesn't take very long.  

           There's no Yoda for the PS3 yet, but Vader is a better fit for the roster anyway.     

  Style is something that Soulcalibur IV certainly has no shortage of. The nicely detailed character 
 models look even better when the flamboyant animation kicks in, and the sheer variety that's on 
 show in the arena locales can't fail to impress. The orchestral soundtrack ends up feeling a little 
 too epic for its own good in places, but that's largely because it's paired with cheesy character 
 dialog and an announcer who delivers his melodramatic lines without even a hint of irony. Fortunately, 
 this isn't a game that's ever in danger of taking itself too seriously, as evidenced by the presence 
 of  Star Wars  characters, animal costumes, novelty weapons, and plenty of amusing arena details. 

  Perhaps the most amusing, or at least laughable feature of Soulcalibur IV is that Yoda, Vader, 
 and The Apprentice from LucasArts' upcoming Force Unleashed game all have stories that attempt 
 to explain their sudden presence in the Soulcalibur universe. In terms of gameplay, none of the 
 aforementioned fighters from a galaxy far, far away are a great fit with the rest of the roster, 
 but they're certainly not so far removed that they ruin the game or anything like that. Some Force 
 powers aside, Vader actually isn't radically different from some of the other members of the cast. 
 The Apprentice uses the force a lot more liberally and, at least until you figure out how to fight 
 against him, he can feel like a really cheap opponent when he throws lightning bolts and even his 
 lightsaber across the screen at you. Given his diminutive stature, it's no surprise that Yoda feels 
 very different from any other character in the game. He's impossible to throw and, considering 
 that he spends most of his time jumping around very acrobatically, he can also be tough to hit. 
 He doesn't use the Force a lot, though, and he moves around the arena relatively slowly, so he's 
 not so much overpowered as just tricky.  

           Nightmare has never looked better.      

  The fact that Yoda and Vader are exclusive 
 to the 360 and the PS3 respectively is easily the most pronounced difference between the two versions, 
 but given that both games have an empty box on the Star Wars row of the character-select screen, 
 it seems reasonable to assume that it'll no longer be an issue once downloadable content starts 
 coming. The only other noteworthy difference between the two games is that the PS3 version offers 
 an optional install to make the load times between fights shorter. Depending on how seriously you 
 take your fighting games, the controllers that you use to play Soulcalibur IV might also be a consideration 
 The PS3 controller's D pad is superior to the Xbox 360's on this occasion, but the latter's analog 
 sticks fare a lot better. The question, then, isn't whether or not you should play Soulcalibur 
 IV, it's which version you should play.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (171 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: omega-sonic
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:15 pm PT
Review:  Soul calibur has always been the hardcore fighting game series. But this is so far the best in 
 the series. These are the good and bad points.
  
  The good; 
  Unlimited character creations, force powers and the character tag system. 
  The bad; 
  You 
 cannot create your own jedi characters, The story for each character is too short and there is 
 no team battle mode. 
  
  Apart from these it is still a great game. The characters have all improved since number three. 
 Namco have really excelled themselves with this. 
  Adding in Vader and the apprentice was a great idea because now you can see who will win a fight 
 between them instead of Vader being cheaply killed in the good ending of the force unleashed. 
 
  The character creation is very easy to use and you can make a great fighter in a matter of minutes 
 but not being able to select a jedi's style to create a character with, which is a let down. The 
 stages are all unique in their own ways as well with some being a reference to older games in the 
 series and the star destroyer from star wars is perfectly designed with three different variations. 
 
  The online fighting is brilliantly tuned to suit the players and there are no issues concerning 
 lag from the control input so the fighting is fluid all the way. The soul gauge and armor systems 
 are a new improvement to the series. With it you have to change your methods when in a battle because 
 if you are one of those blocking types then your soul gauge will turn red and your opponents one 
 will turn blue then they have a chance to finish you off with a over the top critical hit. Despite 
 that this game is perfect and good for any fans of hardcore fighting games
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 18, 2009 5:42 am PT
Review:  Please, give me a break. With brawl games taking over the PS3 now, is it turning into old fashion 
 arcade style now? Is it, cause thats whats happening! And I dont like it! The PS3's supposed to 
 be the console with the best graphics and now we're shifting to old games. I know its got good 
 graphics but my point is is that we're going back to the old-fashion style of games... Its gettting 
 me worried. I've had enough of the old Street Fighter IV and Battle Fantasia. They are old crap 
 games, though Street Fighter IV is pretty good. But my point is that, the games too old fashioned 
 ofr my liking. Yeh it introduces Yoda and Darth Vadar but what else, what? It's just tearing the 
 brawl genre apart on the PS3. Is there any 3D brawl games on the PS3. And you know what I mean, 
 I know its kind of 3D this game but like proper full 3D games? Theres hardly any, in fact I dont 
 think there is any! Soul Calibur IV is too old school. Im dissapointed. If there was blood and 
 gore in it then it would have been better but theres none, just a big electrical colourful wave 
 of magic rainbow string thing-a-majigy that is so unrealistic and unneeded. Blood! C'mon Ubisoft, 
 make blood in this game. Soul Calibur 5 or V as you might call it, make it a 3D action brawler 
 with blood and gore thats an 18 with a bit of swearing. Actually no, make it a 2D game with blood 
 and gore and swearing and I'll be happy. This game does'nt deliver. Its simple controls are'nt 
 cool and you dont feel satisfyed with the K. O for some strange reason. I dont like this game that 
 much. I did'nt get the demo to try it out first which was a big mistake. A BIG mistake alright. 
 What a waste it was. EBAY sold it good though for me and I made a 19.99 deal on it with EBAY. 
 I bought in the shops for 24.99 so I'm really only losing 5 quid you know so... who cares. I sold 
 it in the first week and went back to Killzone 2 it and play Call of duty 4. Cant be bothered playing 
 this game. Its crap. The graphics for a 2D/3D brawler is good though I have to admit. Its pretty 
 bad in total though but the fight sequences are pretty cool sometimes. The online is Okay sometimes 
 but you get bored of it soon. Anyway, thanks for reading my review on Soul Calibur IV. Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: armyman_22
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 14, 2009 3:37 pm PT
Review:  I wish I could say a lot about Soul Calibur 4, but to tell the truth other than having special 
 characters and being able to make your own there is nothing new about this old fighter.
  
  Graphics -- Something you have come to expect from Namco when they do a fighting game is great looks. 
 Characters move and execute moves with great timing and precise grace. There is no doubt that it's 
 a gorgeous game, but that is to be expected in this day and age. 
  
  Sounds -- You hear a verity of lines and yelps throughout the game. You even get to here cool lines 
 from lord Vader and the like. The music and announcer also do a great job of delivering a good 
 experience. 
  
  Game play -- Unbelievably easy....... anyone can win a fight in this game. Sure there is depth, but 
 any casual gamer can pick up the controller and get right into the game. All you have to do is 
 wildly tap any button but the block button. Whoa be unto you if you play online and have some lag. 
 You might as well count yourself as disadvantaged. There is not much to cover here besides it being 
 madly EASY to perform moves. 
  
  I'm a Soul Calibur and Tekken fan, but these games have become so mainstream it's like skill is 
 no longer needed to excel in them. Who would even celebrate a win when it's so easy to do so? Well 
 that is it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeonfollower
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 14, 2009 2:56 am PT
Review:  I have played Soul Calibur franchise for almost 5 years now and it never failed to surprise me 
 and rigged me to the bones of their good style graphics and great sound effects that will rock 
 your bedroom, if you play in your room that is. Now, to the character I really like. Kilik is my 
 main character in the game. Always. His combos and signature moves are very easy to perform and 
 mostly remember. All you need to do is configure your controller option on the game menu and then 
 place the desired button effects to your liking and... go fight and beat the hell out of your opponents 
 that beg for mercy... hi.. hi.. hi... But when I visit the Ranked Match online, I stumbled upon a very 
 disturbing people in my whole life playing online games, and it really bothers me sometimes that 
 people you wanna fight and don't wanna fight is actually loathing you through messages I can't 
 write in here. Full of hate and mocking and every strong language you can imagine. How's that for 
 fight club? I mean, it's just a game guys! We fight and then we receive experience, gold and  
 No need to be rude and mocking your fellow gamer, right? I talked on behalf of fellow gamer who 
 is continually harassing their sparring partner. The overall graphic is gorgeous and animated smoothly 
 and swiftly to your mesmerizing eyes. The Hall of the Warrior God stage is beautifully rendered 
 and the music score is so Romance of the Three Kingdoms tune. I have a good time playing this game 
 over the years despite ill-tongue and savage language I meet on the multiplayer match. Namco are 
 truly the master at creating the fighting genre. That's all for me, good fighting citizens of Soul 
 Calibur IV. Fight your way to the real evil denizens of multiplayer match people! He... he... he... just 
 kidding! Thank you Gamespot for letting me write this review for all to see. Love you guys! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSFreak241
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV, the latest installment in the seriesdoes not match up with the other installments 
 in the series. It seems that the game desingners tried to put as much nudity as allowed in a rated 
 T game as possible, beacause only a thin leather line censors Ivy's private parts. Don't believe 
 me? Well, look at a Soul Calibur IV full body picture of Ivy and then you'll see. Well, anyways 
 the game's graphics are incredible, but the gameplay is too repetetive. Mainy beacuse the game 
 focosuses completely to the Star Wars characters, as they appear in the opening cutscenes, and 
 have the cheapest moves, even though Darth Vader is terrible, and The Apprentice relies completely 
 on the force, which sucks because his force bar fills up in 2 seconds. The game's character creation 
 is whatkept me playng the game for another 2 weeks. I'd say don't risk $50 and rent the game first, 
 because this game has recieved mixed reviews. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Miroku32
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is the new installement of the Soul Calibur series for Ps3 and it looks great. Despite 
 that some player may feel that it is the same as Soul Calibur 2 it adds a little new things.
  
  First of all the graphics are fantastic, the scenarios are really good looking and the characters 
 look great.
  
  In gameplay in my opinion is more easy using the D-Pads for make the attacks, alot of the moves 
 are the same as Soul Calibur 2 (the only game after this of Soul Calibur that I have played) , but 
 there are new ones too. One new thing is the Soul Gauge, if someone is able to break the Soul Gauge 
 you can do a critical finish and besides almost all of them look really cool, it is an instant 
 KO. Also you can break the equipment on the characters making them receive more damage.
  
  The story is a little dissappointing because it is really short and it doesnt add anything new 
 to the storyline, what is the new addition and is great is the tower of lost souls, here you must 
 ascend the floors and defeat bosses and also get items by doing a certain condition or decend floors 
 that is like arcade but this time you will have 2 characters and battle all the way until you are 
 defeated.
  
  This game also brings back the character customization that was introduced in Soul Calibur 3, this 
 time you can customize existing characters with different pieces of gear or make your owns using 
 one of the characters style. It is great and also you can have a good choice of characters when 
 you need them for the tower.
  
  Lastly this is the first Soul Calibur that has online games but despite being good it is sometimes 
 a little annoying that the lag affect the game alot, and the lag depends on the users internet 
 connection, perhaps it could have been better.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 is a good game and is a must have if you like fighting games, it doesnt bring alot 
 of new things but it is a great adition to a good ps3 game library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 7, 2009 8:52 pm PT
Review:  You see, SoulCalibur IV is an amazing game for many reason, it's probably the best SoulCalibur 
 game yet, and one of the best fighting games I've played, with intuitive and complex, yet satisfying 
 combat system.... however, it does have its downsides...
  
  First thing you will notice, are the graphics, they are very nice indeed, and the frame rate rarely 
 drops down (only in those situations in which you're pulling-off some over-the-top combos) . Everything 
 from the stage backgrounds, to the characters' clothing and armor, to their faces are really detailed. 
 Something i really liked are the bloom effects seen on certain stages, such as the pirate ship. 
 Overall, it does have some pretty good graphics, they sure have been bested by other games, but 
 that doesn't means it doesn't look amazing.
  
  Next up, gameplay. What can I say? It's SoulCalibur, each of the aproximately 30 characters you 
 can choose from have his/her own original moveset, and it's not just a couple of different moves, 
 while there are some easy combos, the ones that deal some serious damage are, of course, the hardest 
 to pull off, and you may have some hard time either remembering them or actually making them work. 
 New to the series are the "Critical Finishes", you see, when you fight against your enemy, his/her 
 "Soul Gauge" (An orb positioned right next to the health bar) will gradually break and change from 
 blue to red. When the orb breks, you have the option to press all four face buttons (or L1 to make 
 it easier) to pull-off a Critical Finish, which is basically a cinematic attack in which your character 
 annihilates the opponent. While it's a very nice addition, it's pretty hard to make it work, since 
 you only have like a split-second to press the button. And you'll have a hard time telling when 
 will the orb break, even if it starts flashing red, you'll probably miss it. It also breaks at 
 the same time a piece of armor breaks, but you never know when does that happens... oh yeah, the 
 characters' armor breaks and falls of when enough damage is dealt to certain part. Final thought's 
 about combat system? It's awesome.
  
  Now, I'd like tot alk about character creation. Like in SoulCalibur II, you can create your own 
 characters, basing their fighting style on one of the already existing characters. However, you 
 can customize them any way you wany. You can change their physique, muscularity, breast size in 
 the case of females... which is nice, hair style, voice pitch, eye color, etc. Not to mention you 
 can use give them different clothing and armor, gauntlets, boots, pants/skirts, hats, amongst other 
 things. Indeed, the character customization has got to be what I liked the most, since you can 
 make your character just about any way you can imagine.
  
  Now, if I'm saying everything is so awesome... then why the hell did I gave it an 8.0? Simple, 
 complete lack of replay value. Story modes have never been SoulCalibur's strongest aspect, so you 
 can't expect much from it. Basically, you choose your character (either preset ones, or your own 
 custom creations) , then your given a little background about him/her in the form of... a couple 
 paragraphs of text. Then you're pitted against other characters, after stage 2 you'll watch a cutscene 
 of the Tower of Lost Souls, then you'll continue fighting until stage 4, when you'll watch another 
 cutscene of either Sigfried, Nightmare, or Algol (A new character) , the you fight him in Stage 
 5, and then... it's over, you'll watch the ending cutscene, which is usually short and lame since 
 it doesn't explain anything other than how it ends. Each character has his/her own "story" but 
 the only difference is the ending cutscene, and you probably won't care about the text that will 
 be presented to you at the beginning. Indeed, it's really disappointing. What about Arcade mode? 
 You're pitted against random characters, nothing to mention here.
  
  Now, there's the Tower of Lost Souls mode, in which you go through floors, beating your opponents 
 and unlocking some new gear if you meet certain requirements. However, while it is probably what 
 you'll find yourself playing the most when not fighting friends or other people online (yes, you 
 can play online) , since it's not story-driven, I really don't feel I have a purpose of continuing 
 to fight, I don't have a motive, I won't see a story unfold, i'll just fight some random characters. 
 I guess some pleople wouldn't care about it, but i do.
  
  So overall, what can I say about SoulCalibur IV? Well, while it has some amazing gameplay elements, 
 with an awesome fighting system, and nice graphics, it's lack of single-player options really bring 
 down the experience. I have found myself playing for up to 9 consecutive hours with a friends, 
 we've have a lot of fun with the game, but if I'm alone, there's really not much to do besides 
 trying to unlock those new items, and it's not all that thrilling.
  
  So, in my opinion, if you and your friends are really into fighting games, absolutely buy it, But, 
 if you're more of a loner, you won't find much to do here, even with the amazing gameplay and graphics. 
 It really is a shame that such an amazing game doesn't have enough game modes to make it worth 
 the $59 it costs, I'd gladly give it a 9.0, but I can't. Still, if you can afford the money, buy 
 it, because it's really good if you have friends to play with. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NTX82
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 24, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur returns, and it doesnt disappoint a bit! 
  
  Its one of the games I really wanted for PS3, and I am quite happy with the overall quality of 
 the game. Beautiful graphics, amazing sound, challenging AI, great On-line mode a very good roster 
 makes this game a must buy.
  
  I gotta say in first place that I am quite sad with the Story mode, its so short and full of text. 
 Why? This mode could be a lot better, more imersive.
  Now if we talk about the Tower of Souls, thats a different story. Its so addictive, it really gives 
 us a hard time. But it compensates, because in here we can win unlocable contents and win more 
 money to buy extras, like pictures and new players.
  
  The Star Wars characters are welcome, Darth Vader and The Apprentice are great, and quite fun to 
 play. But characters like Voldo, Cervantes, Mitsurugi and Yoshimitsu will give you great moments. 
 If you are a more brutal player, Rock, Nightmare, Siegfried and Astaroth will make your day. And 
 dont forget to check the Special Finishes, really eye candy!!
  
  The on-line mode great to. No lag, fluid gameplay... what more can we wish in a on-line game? Dont 
 forget that DLC content can be purchased on PSN. Musics, costumes and now you can also have Yoda 
 as a playable character. 
  
  SoulCalibur IV its a must buy, even if you are a new to the series. You will get addicted in a 
 blink of an eye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:19 pm PT
Review:  Story 
  
  Every character in the game has their own story. This may be a good thing for people who like a 
 lot of replay value in single-player, but in all, they really aren't stories at all. They are all 
 shallow and repetitive. All it is pretty much is going to random locations and fighting. 
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay 
  
  The game was fun to play at first, but after about a day it just gets boring. The game offers character 
 customization which is fun at first, but the "power cap" is a downer. All of the characters seem 
 to be generic, and lack individuality.
  
  The game does offer online play which is a lot of fun. That is probably what kept me playing for 
 as long as I did.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics 
  
  The game looks amazing. You can get lost in the scenery of the stage that you are fighting. Animations 
 are beautiful despite a few bugs here and there.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control 
  
  The control in the game requires a pretty long learning period. I had the game for about 7 months 
 and never mastered the controls. It is a 3-D fighter so the camera can be a hassle sometimes as 
 far as not knowing is you are facing your opponent sometimes. Since it is a 3-D fighter, it is 
 a lot harder to play than a typical 2/2.5-D fighting game.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound The game sounds amazing. The music played throughout the game is a real work of art. The 
 sound effects are pretty cool also.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall 
  
  I had very high expectations at first, but after about a week I pretty much had to make myself 
 play it. If you are a die-hard Soulcalibur fan, then through this review out the window, but if 
 you are new to the series, you have been warned. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: candlinnpc
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:48 am PT
Review:  This 3D fighting game comes with it all from Story Mode to Survival Mode to even VS Mode. The only 
 Mode it is lacking is Co-op which would have made this game a masterpiece but it still does not 
 diminish the value the game already has. The 2 biggest aspects of SoulCalibur IV that jumped out 
 at me were creating and customizing your own character (who even have their own story) as well 
 as existing characters and being able to buy new weapons and armor to beef up the characters so 
 they can kick even more butt. Not only can you change the outfits the characters are wearing (or 
 even their whole appearance) but you are able to watch the story endings for each character with 
 these changes. The combinations you can come up with seem to be unlimited. The controls for fighting 
 are also something I have never quite experienced. Even though I have played other 3D fighting 
 games, such as Tekken Tag & Virtua Fighter, I have never found those games to be as challenging 
 as SoulCalibur IV. You can use the exact same button sequence and come up with a completely different 
 move, or so it seemed to me, depending on if you were face to face with your opponent or behind 
 them. The game could have been better in the Story Mode section had it gone into a little more 
 depth of the character's story but I was still able to connect the dots so I was not overly disappointed, 
 just a little saddened. All in all I would definitely say that this is a game worthy of being in 
 anyone's collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hamidreza64
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 5:16 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur 4 is a perfect game in many ways. Most fighting games get boring after 10 hours of 
 playing but this game has so much that it keeps you going. I have played roughly 18 hours and there 
 is still much to learn. The variety of characters and different fighting styles is what i like 
 about this game and critical finishes make this game more fun. Graphics are fantastic and the battalegorunds 
 are very detailed and nice. Character creation option is very nice and you can start making your 
 own character, name etc.. There are so many unlockables in game such as armors, characters, weapons, 
 stages and you can download contents for both PS3 and XBOX360. Multiplayer in this game is balanced 
 in my opinion and i would say around 50-60% is about skills. Combos are great and when you learn 
 them you can kil anyone! Ranking system is good, it is a good comparing system and i personally 
 like it. I gave this game 8.5 because sometimes you can get away with just pressing the same button 
 but not always. Big improvment in graphics and single player but I was expecting more, Still it 
 is satisfying and keeps me amused. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatkins1177
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 20, 2009 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Taken for what it is, a weapons based fighting game, Soul Calibur 4 makes for a fine new installment 
 in the acclaimed series. Not without its faults, this game sticks to the core mechanics of a good 
 fighting game. Many of the single player modes are short and unvaried, pitting your character against 
 an onslaught of opponents in one on one fighting matches. Even the new mode, The Tower of Lost 
 Souls, has you fighting one foe after another as you ascend (or descend) the tower. There is little 
 story to speak of, and each character's story mode can be completed in about five to ten minutes. 
 If story and variety of game play are important to you, then you may find yourself disappointed 
 with this game. If, however, you don't expect too much of either one out of your fighting games, 
 and just enjoy a good one on one match against a friend or the computer, this game should make 
 you happy and keep you challenged. 
  
  The characters in this game are diverse and fun to play. A lot of familiar faces are here, along 
 with some new combatants. The most notable new entries hail from the Star Wars universe. Darth 
 Vader's apprentice from "The Force Unleashed" is present on both consoles, with Yoda being exclusive 
 to the Xbox version and Vader himself appearing in the PS3 game. Of course at this point, both 
 Yoda and Darth Vader are available as DLC should you want to complete the character collection. 
 Personally I enjoy many of SC4's characters, including the Star Wars characters. It may not make 
 perfect sense why Vader and Yoda are suddenly fighting with Nightmare and Taki, but I think they 
 fit pretty well with the look and feel of the game.
  
  Of course the character creation mode is back, and in some ways improved. You can still create 
 an original character from scratch, this time with control over muscularity, voice pitch, and yes, 
 even bust size. There probably aren't quite as many options as far as clothing goes this time around, 
 but there is still a lot to choose from. Gone are the general classes from SC3, with only the ability 
 to create a fighter that uses the fighting style of a pre-existing character. The only complaint 
 here is the absence of being able to create a character that uses a light saber. I was looking 
 forward to creating my own Jedi. The pre-existing character customization has been improved as 
 well, this time allowing complete costume changes for most characters. The only real negative to 
 the character creation mode is the introduction of the skill point system. For some of the modes 
 in the game your character can be given additional skills like a stronger horizontal attack or 
 the ability to avoid ring outs. These skills must be purchased with skill points that are gained 
 by wearing various articles of clothing. Sometimes to get the skills you want, you have to dress 
 your character in some outlandish attire. Players that go for a certain look may end up with a 
 weaker character than those that don't.
  
  New to Soul Calibur in this entry is the network mode where you can fight against other players 
 in online matches. The ranking system seems pretty good, and lag does not seem to be a problem 
 for the most part. Occasionally, though, you may find your onscreen persona a second or two behind 
 your button pushes, making for some sad defeats. You can only hope in this situation that your 
 opponent is also experiencing a delayed reaction. Personally I don't play too many games online, 
 but it's there and it's worth checking out.
  
  Bottom Line: A standard fighting game with character creation and online capabilities that should 
 satisfy fans of the series and of the genre.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nismo_skyline85
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 2:14 pm PT
Review:  This is the best Soul Caliber yet, but the fighting genre just feels dead. I played the Tekkens 
 and Soul Calibers until my fingers nearly bled in both the arcade and on consoles. Now Soul Caliber 
 IV comes out and it is great, but I can't shake the feeling this is the best its ever gonna get 
 and its just going downhill from here.
  
  Soul Caliber IV is beautiful. Characters are wonderously detailed and animations are superb. Environments 
 are also done really well, and look great.
  
  The sound is good. Character hits sound powerful and are timed perfectly. Music is ok, but gets 
 old really fast. The game would have benefited from a greater variety of songs. Also character 
 introduction phrases are as lame and funny as ever.
  
  Now for the main course: gameplay. The game plays extremely well. Controls are very tight. Combos 
 are a bit too easy to pull off, but i guess that appeals to the noobs. Story mode is short, about 
 ten minutes long per character. But if you play it through all the characters it takes a while. 
 You start with a scrolling text about that particular characters story, then you play through 5 
 levels, then you get a short epilogue cinematic. Its ok but gets repetitive after you have done 
 it a few times. Of course there is a vs mode to play against a friend or an A. I. opponent if you 
 want to.
  
  After all these years its still really fun to play with old friends that I grew up playing these 
 types of games with, which was and still is the funnest part of fighting games. If you are a fan 
 get the game and play it because I think fighting games have finally seen the best of their days. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartantec1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 2:44 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 continues it now famous close combat melee action onto the ps3. A solid fighting 
 game as far as the game play mechanics go.
  
  SC 4 brings a whole roaster of characters of characters returning one's like Nightmare and new 
 character's like Darth Vader. I must really admit this game shows its full glory in it's game play. 
 Every characters design, style, moves are really well thought about by the creator's. The game 
 visual's and animation are one of the best in its genre. All the environments are pretty well done 
 and are diverse. But apart from these the only other thing that catches the eye are is the character 
 creation and online play.
  
  The story of the soul edge and soul calibur is epic... but the endings of all the characters is 
 really pathetic (except a few like sophitia) ... i seriously wonder what the creators were thinging 
 when they thought about it. The voices for the character are as cheesy as the previous one's... 
 i hope Namco Bandai put's the japanese voice over's for them. Versus and online play is really 
 fun as long as have friends who enjoy SC. Tower of Lost Souls mode offers plenty of single-player 
 challenge and the character creation mode is fun creative and you can use them as a normal character.
 
  
  Personal Opinion and view:
  SC4 is definitely a good solid fighting game... but really that's it... it does not improve or 
 concentrate at the content and the story at all... the endings of almost all the character's were 
 really repetitive, funny (in a bad way) and horrible. Heheheheh... but you cannot complain about 
 the girl's they are all beautiful!!! one of SC trademarks! If you have friends who enjoys the game 
 and you hone your skills of the characters well this game will last for a while. Recommended to 
 SC fans!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JinKisaragi
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 31, 2008 9:12 am PT
Review:  Well, I didn't have too much expectations since I'm more of a 2D fighting game fan but.. it should 
 of at least been better than Soul Calibur 3.
  
  If you are a fan of Soul Calibur and loved it for it's game mechanics, then you should probably 
 skip this review because they at least stayed loyal to their mechanics. However if you liked Soul 
 Calibur for Chronicles of the Sword and the character customation, then you're in for a nasty surprise.
 
  
  The story mode felt short and rushed out, you fight a few enemies without any real dialogues and 
 then get a random ending thrown at you. So don't be expecting too much from that.
  
  Although they removed Chronicles of the Sword, they added Tower of Lost Souls which will keep you 
 occupied for a while. You basically defeat enemies and move higher up the tower, and you can unlock 
 new armor pieces under certain conditions. 
  
  However now your armor gives you stats! which for some people might be nice, but I found this extremely 
 annoying. Since you can't really make a nice looking character without it having nicely balanced 
 stats. So you either get a useless good looking character, or a ridiculously looking useful character.
 
  
  You can also level styles up, which goes to 9 and the more you unlock the more skills you can use 
 for that character (like reducing the odds of getting ringed out) . I didn't really find this necessary 
 since fighting games should mostly revolve around skill.
  
  Anywayyy if you just love Soul Calibur's gameplay and don't mind a disappointing, corny and short 
 story mode, lack of "Chronicles of the Sword" and annoying character customization. Then I do suggest 
 getting this game, if you do mind then I you should let this one slide. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nickprs
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  i thought soulcaliber 4 was going to be a great and here i am thinking its going to be excellent 
 and i cant wait to get it, i got it and........ it was terrible!!! barely any combos, online play 
 is boring, and the story is just really dumb, no excitement in this game!!! just because they put 
 yoda or darth vader in the game makes them think that this game is going to be greast, meanwhile, they 
 are not even that good! there so moderate! this shouldnt even be rated underfighting game! it should 
 be rated under junk! lol, you want a 100%REAL FIGHTING GAME! get mortal kombat vs dc universe! that 
 game has excellent characters, most amazing and fun to watch combos and finishing moves! please 
 dont bother wasting your time and money on this game! get mk vs dc if you want a fighting game! 
 you may like soulcaliber 4 in the beggining, but i promise you YOU WILL BE BORED WITHIN A WEEK! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fryboy715
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2008 9:58 am PT
Review:  Soul Caliber four for the Play Station three was definitely a much anticipated game before it came 
 out. I was one of the people that was anticipating it. When I fist played the game, I was hooked. 
 It had a great two player game and it is very fun to play with good friends and family, or just 
 anyone that is around you! One good thing about the game is that there are a lot of characters 
 and they are all different and unique. Also, there are many weapons and places to fight in. The 
 settings are crisp clear and the weapons are very varied. The controls are great and easy to learn, 
 also. Also, the new addition of having star wars characters is a very good thing. If you are a 
 big star wars fan, you won't be disappointed by the three star wars characters in the game (s) . 
 Yoda if you buy the game for the XBOX 360, Darth Vader for the Play Station three, and the apprentice 
 is either in both of the games or only in the play station three version. Also, the create a character 
 option is made very well. They really did a great job with this, there is so much variety in it, 
 and you can make characters that look like just about anything, from famous movie and video game 
 characters to ones that look like a more buff version of yourself! The replay value of the game 
 is high and you will find yourself either playing the game for hours and hours if you really get 
 into it. Overall, Soul Caliber IV is a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siosal01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  I can't say i am overly impressed with Soul Calibur IV. It is by no means a bad game. It's easy 
 to get into, easy to improve and tricky to master. The visuals are great, the sound is good and 
 the story line is.. well.. yeah..
  
  The problem with this game is that it brings nothing new to the table and adds nothing to make 
 you want to keep coming back to it. Tekken tag tournament for the PS2 at least had 2 on 2 play 
 as well as one on one. It even included a silly little bowling mini game to give you a break from 
 the button bashing. 
  
  All you really get here is a bare bones fighting game. The characters are well rounded but there 
 are way too many with similar weapons and moves. it's just a fighting game that you can pick up 
 and play every now and then (although expect a few arguments to occur during the procedings) . 
 
  
  I gave this game an 8.5 because for what it's worth some solid effort went into what is here. These 
 guys worked hard on this game so they deserve their props. But as for a little imagination.. sorry 
 but that just didn't happen. 
  
  And as for the star wars characters, they are completely out of place in this game. I don't see 
 the point of them being there. 
  
  If you like fighting games then give this a go. Just don't expect anything new at all. You'll be 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismx193
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2008 10:31 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics, cool gameplay, and heck, it's actually a little fun... at first. That score of 6 
 I gave wasn't my original score. It started at about a 7.5, but as I played more of it, the score 
 just started to go down. 
  
  Yes, it's a fighting game so it's gonna be repetitive, but after playing for a little while, I 
 just got kind of bored. I finished one of the stories and after that, I just turned it off and 
 never played it again and took it back to blockbuster. It's not a game that should be owned. It 
 won't last long in your gameplay. It can be good trade in value over at Game Stop though.
  
  Now, it can be fun if you're playing against others, but even after playing THAT for a little 
 while, it can get boring.
  
  So, sorry to say SC likers, but I do NOT recommend this game. It's only fun for a little while. 
 It may just be me that didn't like it much. If you're into fighting games, maybe you can try it 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:13 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is the fourth instalment of the famous fighting franchise. 
  The previous install Soul Calibur III shocked its masses with its incredible leap of content, massive 
 modes and the introduction of character creation, what Soul Calibur IV offers is slighltly steeper 
 character customization and the ability to play online against other players in the world. 
  At first online sounded exciting but lag turned it to a frustrating experience that may not bother 
 casual fighters but hard core Soul Calibur fans like myself will be in for a disappointment.
  
  Game design: Soul Calibur IV has a few selectable modes but they are not very varied. The story 
 mode allows you to go through each character's story, arcade mode allows you to play through a 
 classic battle after battle set up.
  A new mode called Tower of souls allows you to fight through numerous floors each filled with its 
 share of fighters and extra conditions to fight in, you can descend or ascend, either way is pretty 
 much the same experience, then there is training mode which doesn't really offer a tutorial mode 
 like SC3 so getting adopted to the game depends on you.
  Character designs are really weird compared to previous instalments where they either looked cool 
 or normal (with the exception of Voldo) now they just look way to over styled (I mean look at Cervantese 
 and Talim) , but that's just my opinion anyways and it won't really matter since you can create 
 your own characters based on the main characters fighting styles and can customize them at your 
 will.
  Battle stages are varied and realistic, if a floor breaks because of a powerful attack it will 
 stay that way which gives a realistic look and thats cool. 
  The stages look absolutely gorgeous especially with background interaction that affect the battles 
 such as a bunch of knights moving in to shrink the stage or dodos getting knocked by a powerful 
 attack, which is amusing.
  
  Character creation has been taken to a different level, now you can customize a character's mass 
 (you can make them skinny, buff and can even alter breast size) as well as assign special abilities 
 to suit your battle conditions, though the clothing selection has changed to a rather weird setup, 
 for example belts and pants are now the same category, it is a bit disappointing that the freedom 
 of customization has been minimised but not to the extent where you won't enjoy it so no worries. 
 
  After completing story with the main characters new weapons and cloths will be available for purchase.
 
  
  The newest feature and probably the strongest point (but also worst point, but will get to that 
 later) in the game is online play. 
  You can now play online via PSN and can either play against random players and friends either for 
 fun or increase your rank via worldwide player ranks.
  In ranking you will battle other players for exp and will level up with each victory. Levelling 
 however won't have any statues affects of any kind on you so its likely there just to show how 
 experienced the player is. 
  In addition to points you will also earn the gold of the other players, if you lose however you 
 will not only lose exp but will lose your money as well, and if you sign out during a match you 
 will be penalised and will lose an insane amount of exp.
  
  Game play: 
  There are a fairly large rang of characters you can choose from. 
  All characters from the previous 
 games return with the exception of the bonus characters. This means if you play good with Li Long, 
 Hwang or Arthur you can forget them since they are not included in the game for some funny reason, 
 the only bonus character that was spared was Amy (thats right they decided to dump Hwang for Amy, 
 they sure have great taste) . However new bonus characters were added in their place, however they 
 are all clones of the main characters so going through the effort of making THEM a story is beyond 
 my understanding especially since they look like a bunch of rejected anime characters that nobody 
 will care about.
  Each character has been slightly altered and were also give new moves to replace their old ones 
 so you will definitely need to train a bit to fully familiarise yourself with your character.
 
  Like Soul Calibur II the game includes guest characters, this time they were drawn from the famous 
 Star Wars universe. You will be able to play as Darth Vader, The Secret Apprentice (from the upcoming 
 force unleashed game) and Yoda who can be purchased as a DLC for 4 (which is a bit of a 
 rip-off considering how insanely unbalanced Yoda is but I will get to that later) .
  In addition to Yoda extra bonus costumes and soundtracks can be downloaded for a fare price of 
 less the 1 each.
  The fighting mechanics has been slightly altered but are generally the same; you can guard, do 
 8-way run and attack, while front guard impact remained the same the back guard impact has been 
 tweaked so that when successful it will cause the attacker to fall on the ground. (which ruined 
 the fighting balance because there will be absolutely no way for you to guard impact back) .
  A new addition to the fighting mechanic is the critical finisher moves. 
  If an opponent's health 
 starts to flash red due to guarding against numerous attacks this will indicate an opportunity 
 for a critical finisher, the moment the opponent's guard breaks and flashes red, push the soul 
 charge button and you will execute really amazing powerful attacks that will instantly finish the 
 enemy regardless of how much health they have, this is a welcoming mechanic so that it will encourage 
 players to start attacking and not guard for the rest of the battle. 
  Another new additional is the team switch where you can basically switch players during battle 
 using the R1 button, its neat feature but one a very memorable, not to mention it can only be used 
 in single player.
  Another new feature is the armor breaker, basically as the battle goes on you can break armor/cloths 
 of opponents to the point where they are completely naked which is pretty ridiculous especially 
 when clothing has a statues affect on characters now around, they are not significant affects but 
 I strongly recommend to dismiss this idea of future games and just keep the clothes normal.
  
  Sound: Voice casts are different from previous instalment and they all fit along well. Stage 
 music are really nice to listen to (well except for the star wars stages where John Williams scores 
 play at random in each stage, which just doesn't seem to fit the Soul Calibur universe with all 
 that futuristic feel) 
  Sound affects are absolutely stunning with nice clashing affects and flesh cutting swirl, giving 
 the fighting a realistic sound.
  
  Soul Calibur IV has a fare share of modes, a fairly deep character customization and massive content 
 but not as much compared to Soul Calibur III. 
  The addition of the critical finisher is an intresting mechanic however but some charcaters have 
 huge chains of stringed attacks it become a flaw, for instans Taki can perfomr multiple attacks 
 but the best way to counter them is to defend and with simingly not way of breaking out you will 
 evntually die because of critical finisher and there will be cheap players whole will take advantage 
 of that flaw, I'm personally disappointed that they still didn't include the weapon lock feature 
 from Soul Edge (Soul Blade) , I think that would have made battles more epic.
  Soul Calibur IV is a good sequel and is a must purchase for those that missed out Soul Calibur 
 III (due to it being exclusive to the PS2) but its not exactly that far ahead of its predecessors.
 
  
  First off the Star Wars characters absolutely do not fit in the series at all due to its sci-fi 
 futuristic theme (and "the long long time ago" thing is just more of an excuse than a reason, just 
 because they take place at approximately the same time doesn't mean they fit) .
  The single player mode (especially the story mode) is disappointing since there are only cut scenes 
 by the end of each character and no story to back up their journey like in Soul Calibur III's tales 
 of souls mode, instead you will get an arcade mode with a cut scene at the end (which is much shorter 
 than the actual arcade mode itself) and while Tower of souls provides for varied challenges it 
 just doesn't feel that special since its practically a survival mode in disguise.
  
  Some characters have been tweaked to the point where they are not well balanced, for instance Yoshimitsu 
 and Mitsurugi's ultimate attacks are way to fast while Nightmare's is insanely slow to the point 
 where even complete noobs can dodge his attack, where this should be a game from where you can 
 master each individual character it has now basically become a scissor, paper, stone situation 
 where characters can be easily taken out using a selected character.
  Yoda is the most unbalanced of all characters, due to the fact that he is small you cannot grab 
 him and cannot hit him with high or mid-air attacks, while with other characters have to duck to 
 block low attacks all you have to do with Yoda is just simply block and you can practically never 
 get hit and there are basically no character that can counter him, which practically makes him 
 a cheat, so this hardly makes purchasing him for 4 justifiable.
  Even if you were to master a character the online lag won't let you fully use them and in the worst 
 cases characters won't respond to your commands and performing timed specific moves (such as tapping 
 combos in between combos or even a guard impact) will become impossible due to online not being 
 able to input command on time which will cause you to lose and you will feel like you lost in an 
 unfair fight.
  While this may not affect casual players the hardcore will definitely be disappointed that they 
 won't be able to fight skilled players from other countries at their fullest due to lag interference. 
 
  If the hardcore want a fair fight then you will have to settle it by the couch in normal VS mode, 
 go online if you just want to have a casual fight with other players, avoid skilled players with 
 high connectivity unless you want to lose by default.
  The penalty for exiting a battle may discourage players who think of disconnecting after losing 
 a battle, however this can become a weakness to you as well, since occasionally you will get signed 
 out due to network error and will sometimes be penalised for it, which is an unjust punishment.
 
  Sure Lag has been an issue in many online games, but unlike shooters, fighting games NEED precise 
 timing, even 1 second of lag can completely turn the table around and the tweaked controls just 
 makes it impossible.
  
  To top it off the online experience is not what hardcore fans wished for and the single player 
 content is less than that of Soul Calibur III.
  However online can be fun when you play with or against friends when having a Soul Calibur party 
 session.
  
  For future games they should extra check if characters are balanced and if they are to lazy to 
 do so then put them back the way they used to be in either SC3 or SC2 where they were completely 
 balanced and also place guard impact as it used to be in Soul Calibur 2 and make it a bit easier 
 to use and not risky (this would help especially in online battles) also bring back the bonus characters 
 from previous games and select more suitable guest characters.
  
  Soul Calibur IV is a descent sequel but definitely not better than SC3, it is however currently 
 the best fighting game available this gen and fighting freaks should definitely check it out, but 
 don't expect a flawless online experience like I did, just expect a casual fighting game where 
 you will most likely lose to even the noobiest of noobs and don't expect deep content like in SC3.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: McMJ3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:00 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV was one of the most highly anticipated fighting games of 2008. After having three 
 stellar Soul Caliburs before it, IV had a lot to live up to.
  
  The game may be excellent but it isn't without the downsides. For instance, remember how the previous 
 three Soul Caliburs had excellent stories? In SC4 this is different. There is hardly any story 
 present at all, if any. It is more of a tiny little blurb about each character and then a few pointless 
 cut scenes to string a series of fights together.
  
  While this was quite disappointing seeing how we were anticipating a great story, The Tower of 
 Lost Souls mode more than makes up for the sadness that was the hardly present story mode. In Tower 
 of Lost Souls you start by working your way up the tower in a series of battles on each floor. 
 Each floor gives you the chance in each battle to get equipment to spice up your created character 
 a bit (see later parts of review) . To unlock this equipment it usually involves some sort of task 
 such as, ringing out all enemy's in that fight, or not taking any hits. With a little bonus like 
 this you will always be coming back for more action.
  
  As I mentioned previously, this equipment you can unlock can go towards dressing up your created 
 character to your liking. But first you must actually CREATE a character. The create a character 
 mode is surprisingly quite deep. First you must choose a fighter type. There are many different 
 types usually resembling a type of character already in the game like Siegfried or Kilik. After 
 that you choose your gender and start equiping your character. Different equipment gives you different 
 bonuses (defence, attack or health) . The system also consists of a variety of different facial, 
 body, and colour customization options. Thankfully this mode is a success adding another plus to 
 this beautiful and fantastic game.
  
  Oh yeah, the game looks BRILLIANT. A few bugs are present but hardly noticeable because the awesomeness 
 of the graphics definitely overrules the few graphical glitches that are barely seen by the human 
 eye. Now this is true for the single player, but I can't say the same for the online multiplayer. 
 The game puts forth a fairly solid effort on the online but it went down the drain for me in the 
 long run. The online is quite laggy and there a quite a few more bugs present in the online then 
 the singleplayer. However the matches that do not have bugs and aren't as laggy are incredible 
 fun-Especially with a friend, so message up a friend on PSN or call up a buddy and have a 2 player 
 offline match because the multiplayer is quite fun (when it works) . 
  
  SC4 didn't forget your standard arcade mode don't worry. As you would expect, you jump into a match 
 with in opponent in a series of best out of 3 fights. Fights get tougher and tougher as you progress 
 through the arcade mode. If you want to unlock the special apprentice character from Star Wars: 
 The Force Unleashed you must take control of Darth Vader (the PS3's exclusive character) and complete 
 the arcade mode. This is quite tough and will definitely put your fighting moves to the test. And 
 when I say this I mean it. The game is no cake walk, it will definitely test your button mashing 
 mastery. Its hard yes, but not so hard that you don't want to play it. Namco does a good job of 
 create a genius control scheme to make pulling off insane combos a breeze.
  
  Soul Calibur IV had some high expectations to live up to. There may have been a few minuses but 
 ultimately this game lived up to my expectations giving everyone a highly addictive fighting game 
 always wanting you to come back for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is a good fun multiplayer game but it does suffer from being a bit too easy.
  
  Gameplay
  
  Well you can pick from along line of characters which include Seigfeld, Ivy, Raphael, Cassandra 
 and alot more and a couple of Star Wars characters as well like Darth Vader, Yoda and The Apprentice 
 but some consider them either overpowered or broken as characters like Yoda he is to fast and to 
 short. The game play is you face characters in certain modes like Story, Tower of the Lost Souls, Arcade 
 and online play well. The gameplay is just like the others but the story and arcade can be a bit 
 to easy and short whereas the Tower of Lost Souls and online can be fun. You can also customise 
 your character as well like make a new outfit or customise their weapons as well for either a longer 
 reach or more damage. Some of the special moves can be a bit difficult to pull off but overall 
 its okay. The online is okay but it can take a while to find matches and also it does suffer from 
 a bit of lag as well.
  
  Sound and Graphics
  
  The music is really nice and the voiceover is good as well. The arenas are amazing . The Star Wars 
 one is good as well a nice set of graphics and enviroments.
  
  Lastability
  
  This game has online p [lay so hopefully that will keep you hooked for a little while and the unlockables 
 and the Tower of Lost Souls is huge as well. Unlockables include character images and different 
 outfits as well which can give you a better chance in the game.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  Soul Calibur 4 is not the best one in the series. The addition of Yoda, Darth Vader and the Apprentice 
 was a good idea but some find them overpowered or difficult to use. It can be dull playing by yourself 
 but online is a nice feature and if you have got friends it can also be fun. It is worth checking 
 out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: craigofadown
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  It seems nowadays as if games can't surpass even the lowest of expectations without having 3 bajillion 
 colours on the screen and about the same intensity as falling from a 12 story building into the 
 seventh circle of hell (seemed like a good idea at the time didn't it?) .
  
  Soul Calibur 4 is what I call a durbrain game, a game which will satisfy idiots and children (the 
 age rating of 16 does Soul Calibur no favours) . 
  
  The game offers the fun and rewarding capability to create your own character, it is not new to 
 the series but it has certainly improved. After about an hour of playing with this feature I set 
 out to create my favourite final fantasy characters, I then realised that every character already 
 looks like their from Final Fantasy anyway. You can change everything you would expect and when 
 choosing clothes you can also change the colour of everything you wear, but you cannot make anybody 
 look stylish because if you want to make someone who won't be killed by a mild winter then you'll 
 need to wear only the clothes that make you good at fighting (how wearing a traffic cone on your 
 head gives you the ability to fly I'll never know) .
  
  The game also has a levelling system but compared to Soul Calibur 2 it gets owned, stuffed and 
 served with all the trimmings. There is no real story involved and no matter how you look at the 
 game nothing about the events in game matter and no plotline events can be salvaged from the experience. 
 The story mode is not a story it's just mindless whacking of buttons and can be completed in literally 
 10 minutes. There's something called 'Tower of lost Souls' which is the only part of the game which 
 offers any real challenge but as I say the game was designed for children and stupids and for them 
 remembering where they keep the refridgerator is a challenge.
  
  Soul Calibur 4's strongest point is how good it looks, and believe me when I say it looks better 
 than that sex thing and if sex feels as good as Soul Calibur 4 looks then I will be surprised. 
 Sadly, when you take away the swords bigger than buildings and hair bigger than the swords it becomes 
 the only thing Soul Calibur hass ever been, a button basher. Tactics apparently don't exist to 
 namco and to them, all anyone wants to do is whack people with a sword so much it makes their ding-dong 
 seem bigger. 
  
  Something good about Soul Calibur 4...... 
  
  Yeh the online's alright I suppose. It offers a fun ranking system which will keep you going for 
 a few days and finding a match is quick. Oh ye, games don't lag as much as I expected from a game 
 like this where timing is everything. Online was slightly ruined for me though, because theres 
 one character who as a two meter long wooden rod* so there is no change to get within two meters 
 of him ever, most people with brains will use him and it takes all fun away from the online experience.
 
  
  *oh yeh very funny
  
  So to wrap up, Soul Calibur 4 is a very basic and restricted game which looks good in HD but struggle 
 to offer deep gameplay and soon becomes very repetitive.
  
  I also took away a mark because it has 'Darth Vader' in it. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 27, 2008 9:41 am PT
Review:  This was a solid game not an amazing game but still a great game. The combat flows nicely and is 
 not simply just a button mashing fighting game. Soul Calibur has always been a great series and 
 this game continues their legacy it has a decent story mode for all the characters and actually 
 does a good job incorporating the star wars characters. THE star wars characters are a little overpowered 
 mostly the apprentice but they still play fair and well. There is a mode where you travel the tower 
 fighting for items and power ups that starts off fun but gets old quickly. The online can be fun 
 with friends but with random people it gets broken quickly. The many power ups get old and unfair 
 and many people use the overpowered star wars characters much to much. When playing with friends 
 though this game is a lot of fun. The best part and saving grace for this game is the fighter creator 
 mode where you get to make your own fighter. This is by far the most fun thing to do in the game 
 to see your favorite characters from other games in this one fighting your friends characters. 
 These are the only bright spots to the game though other than that its a very bland game not offering 
 much other than the creation mode, decent online fighting , and a decent or mediocre story mode 
 for the fighters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 12, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  ***This review is cut in to 9 different categories. In each category I will tell you about the 
 game. At the end of the review I will give you my final thoughts on the game. The overall score 
 is totaled up from the Graphics, Game-Play, Sound, Lifespan and my final Say marks. ***
  
  
  Intro - Game Information
  
  (* = None. * * * * * = Strong)
  (The higher the start rating, 
 the stronger the restriction)
  
  Violence: * * * (Mild Fantasy Violence)
  Bad Language: * (None)
  Fear: * (None)
  Sex: ** (Very Mild)
  Drugs: * (None)
  Discrimination: 
 * (None)
  Gambling: * (None)
  
  Age Rating: 12 years and over
  
  Number of player: 1-2 Players
  Multiplayer: Yes, 2 Players
  SIXAXIS Motion Sensitive: No
 
  
  
  I - Quick Review
  
  The Good: 
   Visuals 
   Sound Effects
   2 Player Mode
   Online Mode
   Customizable Characters
  
  
  The bad:
   Loading 
 Time
  
  This is my first experience with the Soul Calibur series so this review could be rather short. 
 Basically I'll just cut to the chase. 
  
  II Plot Review  6/10
  Different characters have different stories but to tell you the truth, when it comes to fighting 
 game, plot isn't a big issue. 
  
  
  
  III - Graphics and Presentation Review  8/10
  
  The graphics are awesome. Very nicely done models and finished renders and nicely done background 
 and special effects. 
  
  
  IV - Game-Play Review  7/10
  
  The game-play is good but can be a bit of a challenge the first play. Once you are comfortable 
 with the controls the game-play is solid. You can customize your own character in lots of different 
 ways, which I thought was very cool. Take you customized characters and fight against the computer 
 in arcade or even story mode or, take your characters online and show of their looks.
  
  
  V - Sound Review  8/10
  
  The sound effects remind me of an old style beat-em up game 
 from back in the day and I like that. Great sound effects.
  
  
  VI - Lifespan Review  7/10
  
  The story mode is pretty short but there is a lot of replay 
 value. You can play the arcade, which is awesome, plus other in game mode or you can take the fight 
 online which again is awesome. Soul Calibur IV can be very addictive to play and even more when 
 you have friend round.
  
  
  VII - My Final Thought Review  7/10 
  
  I thought Soul Calibur IV was a good game and worth the play. It's fun to play, but not so much 
 on your own. Soul Calibur IV is definitely better when played with friend ether in the same room 
 or online. The graphics are great and customizing your own character can be really cool. Plus, 
 playing as Darth Vader is awesome. 
  
  
  VIII - Overall Review  7/10
  
  Soul Calibur IV is a good and fun to play especially when you have friends around. It can be fun 
 to play on your own but it's not have a fighting game should be played. 
  Overall, I give Soul Calibur IV a 7/10 Good game.
  
  
  Simon.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tavares17
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 9, 2008 8:51 am PT
Review:  The latest soul calibur is great. It has good online play and multiplayer. Making your own character 
 is awesome it's really fun. The story mode is really, really, really short.. it takes less than 
 15 min. to beat which sucks. Having Darth Vader And his apprentice is cool there moves are unique. 
 The only problem I have is that you have to buy yoda for $5 Which I think is sort of over price 
 but that's okay. There are quite a few new characters which is also good. The game play seems slower 
 though I have no idea why but it just seems slower. The online is pretty good it sometimes laggs 
 but every game has it's flaws. The Tower mode is really cool and challenging. Overall this is a 
 good arcade style fighting game. And if your a fan of the other soul calibur's you'll enjoy this 
 game. You should rent this game for sure or even buy it it's worth it trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayhokkuu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 5, 2008 6:53 pm PT
Review:  I'd have to say this is probably one of THE BEST soul caliburs ever (besides soul calibur DC of 
 course) with the star wars characters, and the original SC characters both in the same game is 
 kinda... queer, but it's still pretty sweet. they still got the story mode and everything with 
 the soul tower and so on and so forth. But not only is the solo player awesome, the multiplayer 
 (as you would've guessed) is even better. the stages are (and don't judge me on this) B E A UTIFUL. 
 the online play is also pretty cool when your friends start to get scared of fighting you (or just 
 start trying to avoid you at all costs :P jk) then there's online play where you can have fun beating 
 up someone elses computer programmed character and listen to them weep in defeat (priceless) . Speaking 
 of you own character, you can create them from every detail that you can think of. this game has 
 got to be one of my favorite arcade fighters, and if you like arcade fighting games, this is a 
 must. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Iramek
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I looks good as to be expected. Overall game play I srill pretty smooth and easy. Kinda sad story 
 mode (if that's what you would even callit) . Just lack what everyone is doing this time round. 
 More or less a fight and move on (rush rush rush) . 
  
  The Idea of "Sould Crush" was nice, but far to hard to get unless you play a person. Online isn't 
 all that appealing ether. Nothing to really look forward to except to play freinds that don't stay 
 down the street. The tower seems a little to hard at times and then way to easy at others. 
  
  Do like the creation mode. Can try and see what other game/movie/TV charater you can make your 
 person look like. Although getting some of the better armor is no quite worth the time. 
  
  All in all, I think I wanted more than offered. Good game for when people are over and need something 
 to do. This will just stay selfed more than anything. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triad79
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  Well worth the wait adds a lot more into the series and just piles more content for you to unlock 
 ! One of the best I played and best looking with a HD T. V.
  Had to wait for this one due to work and life situations that took a lot of play time away but 
 time well waited for and if they come out with the next one in the series I cant wait for it do 
 to they seem to add more and more to the story line and it seems to be getting better. And the custom 
 character creator is awesome only thing is you have to Buy a lot of the items to use them. But 
 of course they made it easy to get more money to buy them by playing story mode or Arcade more 
 which seems to build up really fast once you hae beaten the game with every body once . So in closeing 
 the question is is this game worth $60.00 plus Tax ? Well I think it was money well spent :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rktPYZQShWz
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur IV was a fighting game I was awaiting for a few months I got sparked by the edition 
 of Darth Vader and Yoda.
  
  This game is very interesting its plot is nothing special but who cares its a fighting game. The 
 Critical Finishers can be devastatingly good. The character customization is one of the best I've 
 seen in years, no two characters can be alike unless meant to be. The problems are that like many 
 fighters today its hard to pick up and just play. Its one of those fighters where you'd have to 
 spend hours on end mastering one character. I don't want that or at least I don't want a game that 
 only focuses on that. The fun is there but it can be repetitive for what your doing and what your 
 opponent if a player is doing unless you have skill. 
  
  To sum this game up its a great fighting game I still play since I bought it in September. Surely 
 not the best fighting game but best in series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  Having not played Soul Calibur since the 2nd installment I was looking forward to the first Calibur 
 game on the current-gen of consoles (Yes, thats current-gen, not "next"-gen as some people STILL 
 say!, but anyway...) and I must say, I am very impressed.
  
  The first thing that strikes you about the game is that it's just beautiful to look at. The graphics 
 are excellent, every ripple of clothing, every shine from a blade, every jiggle of breasts, they 
 have it nailed.
  
  Gameplay wise, it plays very well indeed. The controls feel very responsive and every blow you 
 land upon your unfortunate opponent feels powerful and precise. Which brings me nicely onto the 
 weapons, and boy, there is quite a collection! From katanas to lightsabers and everything inbetween, 
 you want it, you got it!
  
  If you really do want it, why not create an in-game representation of yourself, and wield your 
 weapon of choice. The create-a-character mode is very good indeed, allowing you to create just 
 about anyone or anything you like! However, your weapons and attire reflect just how powerful or 
 how strong you are, so choose wisely!
  
  There are a variety of game modes, ranging from your tradional Arcade mode, which needs no explanation 
 I'm sure. There is also a Story mode for each character in the game, which again is self-explanatory. 
 Tower of Souls is a mode when you pick a set of fighters, sometimes 2 or 3 and progress up "floors" 
 with each floor becoming more and more difficult. This is a fun mode to play inbetween the main 
 Arcade and Story modes. Of course, we have an Online mode too, which works well. Only problem is 
 finding a match can be quite frustrating, as soon as you select a match you'll get "Game session 
 no longer available" quite often. Quickest thing to do is create your own game. A ranking system 
 is also in place, so you can compare your stats with those around the world. Inviting a friend 
 to a game is a simple affair, just send the message and if they get it, then away you go.
  
  One last thing I should mention is of course that the force is strong within the game. Darth 
 Vader makes an appearance in the PS3 version, with Yoda in the 360 version. However you can now 
 download Yoda for the PS3 and Vader for the 360 via each consoles store. Also, the Apprentice from 
 "The Force Unleashed" is playable in both versions... he is the most difficult character to beat 
 most of the time.
  
  Soul Calibur IV is an excellent fighter, one recommended to all you beat 'em up fans out there, 
 and those who are looking to get into fighters, or would just like to stare are large breasts.
 
  
  --Dave -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wheelercub
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 21, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur IV is an absolute must-have for old-school fighting game fans and newbies to the genre 
 alike. It mixes gorgeously detailed visuals with exciting fighting action. Only the 3-button control 
 system keeps this game from shooting above a 9.0 in my book.
  
  First, hard-core NAMCO fans will recognize their signature swap out fighting styles between the 
 Tekken and Soulcalibur series. While the primary button controls are very different between the 
 two, knowing one game will certainly help you with the other, and many of the game dynamics are 
 borrowed from each other. This comes in handy with respect to rolling on the floor, executing and 
 escaping throws, when to block or side-step, timing attacks, and juggles. 
  
  Beginning a year after the launch of Tekken 2, Soul Edge was released -- which is technically the 
 first game in the series. A year later, Tekken 3 hit the arcades, and then NAMCO relaunched the 
 Soul Edge series with a number of improvements as Soulcalibur. Since then, the two games have piggybacked 
 off of each other swapping out years until now with the release of Soulcalibur 4 (2007) and Tekken 
 6 (2008) . But lets get back to the star of this show -- SC4.
  
  The visual effects of SC4 are the best of any fighting game on the market down to detailed skin 
 tones and sparking blades. The backgrounds are so detailed you may feel like you're actually in 
 the jungle or in the landing bay of the Death Star. And even the special attacks and throws are 
 absolutely awe-inspiring and will have your friends in the room cheering and laughing along with 
 you. 
  
  As with the past few NAMCO fighters, you can customize your favorite character's costumes to suite 
 your personal tastes and to show off which rare items you've unlocked. But one of the things that 
 makes this entry in the series unique is that you can now completely build your character's appearance 
 from scratch. Thus allowing you to create a pink pony tailed female Voldo or a stocky male version 
 of Taki. And you will be absolutely SHOCKED at how many options you can play with. On the down 
 side, some items give your customized character bonuses that you may want which may force you to 
 wear an item that messes with your visual concept (e. g. a ninja character who has to wear a wizard 
 hat) .
  
  With all that said, this leads me to the RPG-like aspect of Soulcalibur. While customize your new 
 fighter, you will have the option to equip items that give bonuses to your Power, Boost, Gauge, 
 Impact, and Special. Many of these items will also affect your Attack, Defense, and Hit Points. 
 Additionally, you can give your fighter special powers such as health regeneration and protection 
 from ring-outs; all of which have three tiers of strength. But to buy any of these specials, you 
 must have the corresponding level of Power, Boost, Gauge, Impact, or Special. This creates a RPG-like 
 equipment system, similar to games like World of Warcraft, for players who really want to customize 
 and specialize their fighter. NAMCO says that the system is optional and fairly balanced. You'll 
 find yourself conflicted between customizing your avatar's style and their special powers because 
 increasing one strength to unlock a special power may decrease area blocking you from accessing 
 another special power you want. But in the end, you'll need to find the balance that works best 
 for you. 
  
  This leads to unlockables, of which there are literally thousands. There are plenty of unlockable 
 characters and a good number of pre-customized fighters (e. g. a female skin of Cervantes) . Plus 
 you'll find unlockable stages, videos, and more individual clothing pieces than you can shake a 
 high heel at. Then on top of this you can buy and download even more content to further customize 
 your fighters. Oh - and all of the clothing, hair styles, weapons, body types, and faces are further 
 customizable with the full spectrum of colors -- yes, you can make a neon green Samuri or a hot 
 pink Barbarian. But you might say, why bother? Whose gonna see it anyway? Well the answer to that 
 would be everyone if you decide to fight online with your customized characters.
  
  I won't lie to you; the online play certainly could use some love. But in it's current state, it 
 serves it's purpose very nicely and gives players the chance to showcase their fighting styles 
 as well as their personal customizations. Players join rooms where they can watch other players 
 within the room fight until their turn comes up -- reminiscent of placing your quarter on the edge 
 of an arcade machine. And it really helps prepare you for what you're in store for. So you're not 
 shocked when you get your butt kicked by a 13-year old Japanese kid. Additionally, SC4 has a full 
 ranking system which rewards a form of experience points to you based on your performance. Of course 
 winning will give you more XP, but even loosing will give you a little eventually allowing you 
 to gain a rank or two over time.
  
  The combat in SC4 is fast and furious. Blink your eyes and you may find yourself falling off a 
 cliff edge. Mastering ground rolls, blocking, and attack styles is critical to success when fighting 
 against higher tiered players. Juggles are a little more restrictive in SC4 than they are in the 
 past few entries of the Tekken series, but it fits well with the Soulcalibur world and changes 
 your combat tactics only slightly. The 3-button game lends it itself well to for button mashers, 
 but fighting game pros will find a tremendous level of detail to the combat system to keep them 
 occupied for long hours. Beginners may feel a little cheated by higher tier enemies and players, 
 but if there's one thing that all NAMCO fans know, it's that there's always an escape to every 
 combo, throw, and combo chain. It just takes a little patience and practice.
  
  A year following SEGA's Virtua Fighter success, NAMCO released Tekken as their entry in the 3D 
 fighting game genre. Building off the same concepts of VF, Tekken took the "reality of 3D" to a 
 new level by using 4 buttons instead of the standard 3 corresponding to left punch, right punch, 
 left kick, and right kick. Furthermore, they incorporated a form of "virtual balance" by linking 
 the joystick directions to how a fighter might shift their center of weight so that most of the 
 character moves felt a little more realistic. Simply put, Forward -  Forward + Right Kick, launches 
 an attack that visually matches throwing your center of weight forward with a right kick; Pushing 
 backward or down-backward will block attacks; etc. Thus making the controls more "logical" and 
 easier to learn.
  
  Unfortunately, this trend did not carry over to the Soulcalibur series. Instead they decided to 
 use the less logical system that Virtua Fighter, and many other games still use today. This is 
 definitely my #1 problem with Soul Calibur as all controls have to be memorized from scratch instead 
 of being learned based on a form of logic. So every new character that you play will not necessarily 
 have logical moves that are easier to remember. Worse yet, you must hold down a "block button" 
 instead of simply pushing backward.
  
  Overall Soulcalibur IV it's a solid game and I highly recommended it whether you're a hard core 
 fans of fighting games or just want to do some button mashing. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 4EBA
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  SoulCalibur 4
  
  Graphics 10 
  Gameplay 9
  Sound 9
  Control 8
  
  SoulCalibur 4 has left in my country with a delay per 2 months, uninhabited to wait I has bought 
 the English version for the sum more than 100 $.
  At start of game (in all fighting game from Namco there were smart prompts on CG) initial roller 
 made on engine of game, very boring and comprises the zero information. Prompt on background (Menu 
 Screen) looks on the contrary best in series, sword, in which handles show different stages from 
 game, is executed on the order better than in the previous parts.
  In the game half of basic characters, others is initially accessible only to have to buy for money 
 (which are earned for passage of campaign, or mode arcade, and if you play under the Internet, 
 for each victory in a rank matches too charge some sum) . Story mode has disappointed, instead of 
 the promised improved campaign of the third part, in a result all has appeared worse, than in second 
 (the quantity of stages was reduced up to 5!) . The innovation gameplay - now is very complex (difficult) 
 to throw off the opponent in ring out, more often it can be made with the help of capture and, 
 not as in the previous parts when the characters in themselves could fall. Critical Finish - looks 
 beautifully, but in fight is not used because of difficulty of performance. The new characters 
 added in the fifth part as a matter of fact one - Hilde, Star Wars freaks not on account of! And 
 special guest characters have no own style of fight and, borrow another's and final rollers are 
 made on the order worse, than at the basic characters. The diagram tremendous (it is not clear 
 as such to the diagram can pull XBOX) , the characters and arenas are very well traced. At last 
 in a series SC have added Customization, where buy as separate accessories, that and high-grade 
 costumes, because of an abundance custom the things are not present sense to create own unique 
 fighters. New quest mode with a tower of souls is made by and large for opening new things for 
 Customs, and that they should be opened to execute this or that task (type put 5 combo or throw 
 off an enemy with ring out ..) .
  Also for the first time in a series was added Online Battle. It is possible to play as on a rank 
 with statistics, or simply to play with the friends, or with other players without the account 
 of statistics. But here balance at once is seen.. The most part of the players plays for Mitsurugi 
 and Cervantes. Also it is necessary to note, that now special opportunities for sword should be 
 inserted manually, it is executed as RPG of system, where the glasses are given to you and it is 
 necessary correctly them to distribute (also to character it is necessary to swing skill of possession 
 from 1 up to 9 lvl, than better ability more lvl by that it is possible to put) , or to enclose 
 in one skill with damage for another (glasses it is possible to raise with the help jewel and unique 
 things) . So in Online all depends from ability against the concrete character.
  The result is those that, most likely game have not finished up to shine from that the game has 
 left and on XBOX, which with DVD could not contain everything, and do (make) X360 the version more 
 poorly, than PS3 would be silly for the developers (therefore and is inaccessible 1080p) . 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mykel77
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 14, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Soul cal returns in one hell of a beautiful next gen game. Ive had the chance to play both versions 
 on a hdtv and hdmi, and the ps3 wins by graphical clarity, color, sharpness, and controller ease. 
 But the 360 reigns of course in the online department. faster and less lag. but i will say the 
 360 controller is god awful for this game, use a stick if you got one or a 3rd party controller. 
 It was practically unplayable for me on 360. Some characters were fine, but the more advanced fighters, 
 their moves and parrying were not possible, i use setsuka and hilde mainly and i couldnt pull off 
 her moves as smoothly as the ps3, mainly the diagonal moves and her special combos. This killed 
 it, i returned the game and stayed with the ps3 version. and graphically it looked washed out and 
 had bad black levels on 360. The fighters are diverse, deep, some cheesy (mitsurugi) but it depends 
 on the user mainly. It will take you a long time to master one fighters entire moveset which is 
 a good thing. But the game is VERY button masher friendly, which sucks, a longer parry time would 
 have fixed this, and dont bother fighting anyone who has a signal from 1 to 3, stay with 4 or 5 
 bars or it wont work. hopefully they will patch the online mode, needs a rematch for rank mode, 
 and a lobby or something, but it is a great fighter overall and is worth your money, just be warned 
 it is masher friendly so until your good enough and can parry with ease, good luck. and good luck 
 with 360 controller parrying and pulling off those special moves, expect to lose to mashers. Highly 
 recommend PS3 VERSION, UNLESS U GET A 360 ARCADE STICK!! thanks guys good luck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the_mighty_boos
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  SC4 is quite possibly the best beat em up game you could buy, if just for the actual fighting. 
 The move sets for each character are deep, fun to learn and incredible to see. There are a large 
 amount of fighters to choose from, pretty much all of which are well balanced and feel different 
 to the others. And the graphics are simply awesome.
  But SC4 has one relatively big problem. It has a lack of things to do. It offers up your usual 
 Arcade mode and Story mode, aswell as 2 player battles and character creation. And there is also 
 the new Tower of Lost Souls mode which challenges you to ascend (or descend) 60 levels of battles 
 with different environments and treasures to achieve. There is also a (pretty basic) online mode. 
 This is fine, but compare it SC3's daunting amount of modes and things to unlock and its a little 
 disappointing. 
  There are Honours to get, which are basically the X360's achievements. Getting these honours unlocks 
 items for character creation, and most of them are quite fun to do. The Tower of Lost Souls also 
 has treasures to unlock which are pretty challenging and quite fun to do. This is all well and 
 good, but I felt like I had done most things that had to be done withing a few hours of playing. 
 Not only that but removing much loved game modes such as the conquest mode and team battle and 
 tournament modes was a bad decision. These modes added hours of fun to the game and much needed 
 variation.
  Saying all that, I have logged around 60 hours on this game, most of which was spent making stupid 
 characters in creation mode, completing ToLS, and whooping some ass online.
  SC4 is worth a buy, after all it is definetly the best beat em up on the current generation of 
 consoles. But if you have played pervious SC games, mainly SC3, you may be a touch miffed as I 
 was to see they have removed a lot of much loved content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hajjjustin
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Dont Get me wrong i liked the game its been one of the funnist fighter games i have ever played 
 but really it feals like once you play one you have played them all.
  
  The new features to this game were the tower mode witch was nothig speacial you go up the tower 
 trying to unlock goals witch will unclock iteams for character creation mode. each level progressivly 
 gets harder. Also there is the online mode witch is nice. there is no lag but getting into a match 
 may take some time depending what time of day it is. if the servers are full its hard, thats the 
 one place were the xbox version may be a littel better than the ps3 version. the last new, well 
 not new but updated feature was the character creation fearture witch was really my highlight of 
 the game there was alot you could do here changed cololrs of items chng the shape of the body there 
 was alot weapons to choose from. the only part about it that i did not like was i thought that 
 once you purchesed a item it should have remaind in you inventory for all your character but you 
 have to buy them for each character but not a big deal.
  
  The Arcade Mode stayed true to it nature nothing new here witch i like they need not change arcade 
 mode but they could have put a cut scene at the end. but adventure mode lacked any depth or story 
 they could have at least put defearent cut sence between battles for each character. there was 
 almost no reason fo story mode in this game. 
  
  
  On to game play, the Play was good, fun and it worked the graphics were great on both systems the 
 ps3 contoler was a little better than the 360 but we new that before we even played the game. Vader 
 and yoda were nothing great the appentice was cool. the other new characters were cool but nothing 
 special. the music was nothing special. and i hated the little texed boxes that came up.
  
  All in all its a good game but nothing to go ape about. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 5, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  soul calibur 4 is set in an england type enviroment. but there are fighters from all over the world. 
 all destined to fight for the soul swords. to claim or to destroy for their own needs and wants. 
 to be honest if you have played other soul calibur games the story line is really the same. no 
 big change from the 2nd and 3rd ones that have been out a couple years now. but they do have some 
 improvements in the game, such as the graphics look really good in next gen. the characters are 
 amazing how much details are put into them. 
  now for my thoughts on the game.....
  every character has his or her own fighting style and abilites. which takes time to learn but can 
 be lots of fun. you dont have to know the charcters or even the story, anyone can pick up the game 
 and play. altho, you will find that different ability and fighting styles of each, are useful at 
 different times. most of the ease of the game comes down to the controls. they are good, the are 
 easey to understand and simple to learn. the characters are all fun to play with. but since the 
 story line is not that deep they kind of miss a big opportunity to increase your knowledge of the 
 characters. (approx. 5 mints. long) . 
  the online is where you will stay. you will get hooked quickly. very addictive. this is my personal 
 favorite feature of the game. (of course with Darth Vader, how could you go wrong) . even if you 
 dont like any of the characters you can create your own. The sound in the game is good and the 
 sound effects for the weapons are great. but, beware, the catch phrases are kind of weird and sometimes 
 can be anoying. the biggest flaw ofi think in the game besides being too short, when you loses 
 on line you lose points. and people have found ways to cheat when they lose to kkep from doing 
 this, but at the same time it will cause the victor to not get anything for the win. a flaw that 
 needs to be fixed.
  overall: 
  I am very satisifed with this soul calibur game. i recommend for all to try it that like fighting 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waferlawrence
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Soul Caliber has been a staple for fighting games for quite some time. You have your Tekken, Mortal 
 Kombat, Street Fighter, etc. Soul Caliber has been one of those names ranking among the best fighting 
 games. 
  
  There's several changes from part three to four, some for the better, some for the worst.
  
 
  The biggest disappointment for me was the dumbed down storyline mode. Also, while the overall 
 create-a-character is better, I don't like going through there to buy the upgraded weapons, it's 
 a bit confusing.
  
  The challenge is there, and the Tower of Lost Souls was an awesome addition, if they could have 
 put an improved storyline in there as well, this would have been an awesome game!
  
  The basics are great, the movements are fluid, there's challenge when you want it and overall, 
 I'm glad I bought it.
  
  Gameplay - 8.5
  There's a lot of fun in the game play, but there's no point in playing through all the modes because 
 they start getting old. Why play arcade when I already unlocked everyone? The only thing to really 
 have much fun with for an extended period of time is the online and the Tower of Lost Souls. The 
 Tower is the type of game play that is so frustrating while playing and so satisfying when finally 
 accomplished. I've damaged one controller pretty badly in that process.
  
  The online, I'll get into that more later. But the online does put that element of not fighting 
 the computer over and over again and not trying to find a friend to come over. It really adds to 
 the value of this game.
  
  Graphics - 9
  It looks amazing. It really does. It's not up there with Uncharted and other games noted so highly 
 for their graphics, but this by no means looks like you could also play it on PS2. 
  
  Sound - 8.5
  The music is generic, but it kind of settles in the back of your head. The star 
 wars music does add a plus.
  
  Value - 9.0
  It's worth buying brand new. That's hard to say for a lot of games. 
  
  Tilt - 8
  Seriously 
 no trophies? I understood there was none at launch, they probably didn't have enough notice. But 
 it's been like three months. Where are my trophies? The Tower of Lost Souls is fun, but the awards 
 aren't quite worth it. The in game trophies are nice, but with trophies available, I'd like the 
 world to know that I busted my ass to get those 100 critical finishes.
  
  A good storyline would have added to this tilt. Having to work to unlock the characters would have 
 added to the tilt. They did a great job on the actual play of the game, but with damage to the 
 tilt.
  
  A good tilt point was the star wars characters. It's still kind of awesome to through your friend 
 up in the air with Vader and tell him you're his father.
  
  Online/Multiplayer  9.0
  
  It's very good, you can even play with customer characters and stats to get really into it. The 
 only problem is in three months I've gotten into one game from quick start. I've spend more time 
 trying to get into matches than actually in them
  
  I'd also like the ability to tweak the games a little more. I'd like to do three matches instead 
 of five, infinite time, quick time, etc. That's really my only gripe.
  
  What would Wafer change?
  
  TROPHIES! I'd also revamp the whole storyline. I would have but 
 less emphasis on the Star Wars character, because while they do make a decent tilt element, they 
 don't add enough to the game play to ignore the storyline, etc.
  
  Overall, good game. Desperate lack of storyline and no trophies really hurt it, but in this game, 
 that's nothing a couple of good patches won't fix.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreeFight_RB
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:52 pm PT
Review:  This is my first purchase of a fighting game and my main concern was that it would get boring and 
 I would lose interest quickly. However that was not the case. First, the graphics are quite good 
 and the fights look great, and the audio is good but listening to yours character say the same 
 thing over and over again is a bit annoying. But those are not the main attractions of the game. 
 The story mode is a bit pointless because there is not much story besides and opening story to 
 READ, and an ending cinematic with a cheesy quote at the end, it just wasn't long enough either. 
 Arcade mode is fun and can be challenging but overall not worth it. The best part is the ascend 
 and descend tower modes. They offer a good challenge and rewards of stages and equipment. Which 
 leads me to the character customization. Along with the numerous fighting styles, you can customize 
 your characters appearance from head to foot, in depth coloring and all. This game has been very 
 addicting, fun and very much worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DabsTight703
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  In my opinion of course. This game has many features to keep you occupied. Very fun game when playing 
 against friends. The online on the other hand, is laggy and usually not worth playing. I'd only 
 get this game if I had someone else to play with offline. Luckily, I have two younger brothers 
 so I will usually have someone to play with. The CAS system is very nice. It has a wide selection 
 of things to outfit you're character and you can even edit existing ones. Graphics are decent but 
 for some reason it feels a little bit slower than previous titles. It's barely even noticeable 
 but it does feel like swings aren't as fast as they used to be. Some of the fights against computers 
 can be frustrating because they seem to just block/deflect/counter all your attacks. All in all, 
 I believe this game was worthy of my purchase. I do kind of wish it went down in price a little 
 bit before I bought it however. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CALBORN
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 5:28 am PT
Review:  Lets juz admit it that SoulCalibur 4 ROCKS!!!! All the intense fighting and beautiful skill and 
 environment are now bought available to our Playstation 3 console and Xbox 360.. 
  
  Some of the people will follow this series like MGS.. this is juz a magical to say 4 is being the 
 best of all like MGS4 and GTA4 .. is 4 bringing the charm and hype ?? I don think so !!! SC4 for 
 now is one of the best fighting game now so far , its so nice to c all ur favorite character are 
 come in HD like IVY, Taki, Kilik and Mitsurugi. There are also few aditional character like carventes 
 ( now my personal favorite) , Amy and the latest among all Darth Vader for the PS3 and Yoda for 
 the X360 .. it is so delightful to c ur favorite Stars Wars came to life and a additional character 
 are added like the apprentice from the latest Stars Wars game.. From top to bottom all are perfect 
 and sweet the only bad thing is the biggest thing which is online.... 
  
  There will not be any trophies supported for the PS3 but they have their own honor which u will 
 achieve if u mange to do a certain specific move in specific stages.. other than that they will 
 be a tower , which player need to fight all the way up to the top as it is getting harder and harder.. 
 there is nothing much added of gameplay other than just fighting. but u will enjoy kicking people 
 ass and showing how good u are in ur SC skill..
  
  The down side... Short story!!!!! and ONLINE!!!!!!. The story mode are damn freaking short with 
 doesn't give any challenges to us .. it only have 5 stages with each stages has 1 or 4 enemy, it 
 seem hard but den the Ai skill are just average, (for me don't get offended) . u are able to finish 
 all the character stages in 1 day if u play normal mode. Other than that, The online kill all the 
 perfect score of this game total of 0.5 out of 10 lol... it was so lagging and slow .. i don know 
 what happen ? is it my connection bad ?? or my connection speed sucks ?? I don know ? Hope They 
 will fix the problem .. So overall i will give this game a perfect 9 out of 10 . Congratz SC4 !!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:18 pm PT
Review:  Now I like the Soul Calibur series. I thought Soul Calibur 2 was fantastic and then Soul Calibur 
 3 came out and I thought that was even better. "By far the best beat 'em up game ever!" I chuckled 
 to myself as I button mashed my way through the arcade mode of SC3. Then I heard SC4 was coming 
 out and not for the PS2 but for the next-gen consols. "Fantastic!" I thought. Not only is it out 
 on a better console but on the all new blue-ray disk! This meant it could be much bigger, much 
 more longer, much more exciting etc etc blah blah *yawn*. Question, could I have been more wrong? 
 Answer, no. 
  
  I'm gonna start with the bad/disappointing, because to be quite frank, there's a lot of it. That 
 much in fact I almost don't know where to beginalmost. To start, I think this is the first sequel 
 game I've ever played to actually have less in it than any of it's prequels on the lower generation 
 consoles. Now I've actually only ever played SC2 & 3 so bare with me with SC1 or soul edge or whatever 
 it was called. In SC2 you had Arcade, a Story mode, and all the classic beat 'em up modes like 
 survival and team battle etc, then in SC3 they ditched team battle mode and introduced Chronicles 
 of the sword mode and a bunch of little missions as well as character customisation. Now if you 
 can imagine Soul Calibur 3 but without the Chronicles of the sword Mode less Character Customisation 
 features, a shorter more pointless Story mode, and less imaginative mission you basically have 
 Soul Calibur 4. Okay Okay so it has better graphics than its prequels but there's only so long 
 you can gape at its prettiness. Oh right and there's star wars characters in it. Woopty frickin 
 dee! 
  The story mode basically consists of a long blurb at the start about whichever of the characters 
 you have picked followed by a series of 5, count FIVE battles, which may consist of more than 1 
 enemy, but they are usually quite easy to beat. With some storylines you may be given a partner 
 whether a pleb made up character or a real main classic character. There is also nothing in between 
 each battle to actually create a STORY in story mode, it's just move from one team-based battle 
 to the next with the odd cutscene, which is repeated in every characters "storyline" anyway, making 
 up your own little story in your head. They may as well have called it "Sort of Team battle mode" 
 or "Fight a few fights with 2 characters in a sort of tekken tag style way, while we throw random 
 enemies at you mode". The fact of the matter is there is no difference as such between SC2's Arcade 
 mode and this "Story" Mode.
  Next is the, what I call the "extra mode" since having a story mode just isn't satisfying enough 
 for the beat 'em up genre anymore. This time they call this mode "Tower of lost Souls".. mode. 
 In this mode you either have to ascend or descend the tower. Ascending basically puts you in a 
 series of fights against multiple enemies. For every wave you beat you ascend a floor, each mission 
 may consist of 2 or 3 floors, each floor may consist of 2-4 enemies. Now there's a special twist. 
 You can complete vaguely specified objectives during each floor to open a treasure chest, which 
 may hold gold or a customisation part. When I say "vaguely specified" I mean the game spouts random 
 words at you to give you a hint at what you must do to unlock that floor's chest as if it was Merlin's 
 dad. These little objectives, my friends, may just be complete the floor with guarding or justlike 
 complete the floor. You can see this mode as the SC4 version of SC3's missions mode. If you choose 
 to descend then that's just basically a Tag survival mode in which you can choose 2 characters 
 to see how many floors you can complete without getting both of your characters KO'd or just dieing 
 a some of the lazier people may say.
  As for the character customisation mode, this is basically a worse organised version of SC3's character 
 custom mode, with less items to equip. Now stats and abilities play a major part in Story and "The 
 Extra" mode and which clothes and armour you equip your character with affects the stats of that 
 character. This sounds okay on paper but the way its set up doesn't really work that well. You 
 can't really make your character look funny or cool because equipping, for example, a kitty cat 
 suit may make your max HP drop down so low you only have to take a look a Yoshimitsu's nostrils 
 to KO yourself immediately, or it may lower you attack power down so far, even if you were using 
 an atom bomb on poor Talim it wouldn't even singe the traces of mouse whiskers that were left on 
 the mouldy cheese she was carrying in her pocket. Okay that might be a bit of an exaggeration but 
 what ever you equip to make your stats any good your character is probably not going to look like 
 what you originally set out for. Now this mode also acts as the shop where you can purchase most 
 equipment and nearly every dam locked character in the game for dirt cheap! Making the game even 
 more easier. No seriously, if you complete story mode (that is five straight battles *gasp*) you 
 basically earn enough dosh to buy yourself three of the locked characters straight away. Hmmm, 
 let me think, that should take you all of about 15minutes. Not only that darth vader (the guest 
 character which is part of the reason nearly everyone has pretty much bought the game for) is available 
 straight away, no complications. If that doesn't scream "rent me you fools don't buy me" I don't 
 know what will.
  
  Now I've had enough of tearing it apart cause I like Soul Calibur and, although it doesn't live 
 up to the Kingdom hearts series, I'm still gonna go ahead and say what's actually good about SC4.
 
  
  You have your tutorial mode which is basically your practice mode, you still have an arcade mode 
 which you play through 8 battles as normal in an effort to fight the last boss and earn a bit of 
 dosh, the graphics are a significant improvement on the previous games, the characters are interesting 
 and imaginative enough to keep you interested in the Story mode to view each there individual endings, 
 and there's now an online mode which, although doesn't have much features other than 'have a fight 
 that counts towards your online stats' (ranked) or 'don't' (unranked) it is still fun to fight 
 people who actually provide a fair challenge or in some cases who you can absolutely flatten, 
 (If you can manage to connect to one that is) . Also there's this little thing where you can now 
 break the armour and clothes each character is wearing and basically strip them down to there underwear 
 which of course makes them weaker and easier to beat in further rounds. There's also one more new 
 feature, which is available in all modes called the soul gauge. This is depleted by using special 
 abilities such as invisibility and guard break or by guarding. Also if you deplete the opponents 
 soul gauge you may get a chance to launch a critical finish which KO's the opponent immediately. 
 Okay I held off as long as I could, this critical finish thing is pointless and rare, even if you 
 manage to deplete your opponents soul gauge you rarely get the opportunity to use the critical 
 finish anyway because they have to be in a state of "soul crush" which hardly ever happens and 
 chances are you are about to KO the enemies with another couple of slashes anyway.
  
  Overall for a next-gen console game that has been integrated onto the super duper blue-ray disk 
 the game is incredibly limited there's hardly anything new and the chances are you'll be bored 
 of it within a week even if you are a fan. I know I was.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_gamer007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:27 am PT
Review:  I was never interested in Soul Calibur IV what so ever, that is until I played the demo on PSN. 
 This should be a note to all developers; always make demos available for the public. It definitely 
 helped me and I assumed many others to make a decision on buying this game. But enough about that 
 let's get into the game.
  
  The first thing you'll notice when playing Soul Calibur IV is how pretty it looks. Every characters 
 is very well done and has great detail. The environments are also amazing and quite colorful. The 
 environments range from a marshland to a giant cliff over hanging a lake of lava below to an icy 
 cave to the Star Destroyer taken from the Star Wars guest characters' universe. The game never looks 
 dull or uninspired, everything is well made.
  
  The thing that makes this game really stand out from other fighting games is the gameplay. Instead 
 of clashing fists, you clash swords, spears, rods and various other weapons in Soul Calibur IV. While 
 I personally prefer the fist-to-fist combat of say Mortal Kombat or Tekken, the weapon based fighting 
 offers a nice change. Here in Soul Calibur IV they did the gameplay almost perfect. The game is 
 very easy to pick up and play and pull off some 2-3 hit combos but, at the same time the fighting 
 system is very very deep allowing more hardcore players to perfect their skills. Every character 
 is very unique, each using a different weapon which generally means your going to want to have 
 a favorite or main character to fight as. For example, Kilik (who uses a rod) has very good range 
 and is very powerful although is somewhat slow, Cassandra (who uses a short sword and shield) on 
 the other hand is quick and very good a close-ranged combat but isn't very powerful and has a disadvantage 
 in fighting long-ranged fighters (Kilik, Hilde etc.) . This variety of characters and styles makes 
 Soul Calibur IV a somewhat "tactical" fighting game.
  
  One other cool thing about Soul Calibur IV is the Create A Character mode which allows to customize 
 preexisting fighters or make one all your own. You can pick the clothing for every part of the 
 characters body, change hair style, hair color, change physical build and more. The clothing doesn't 
 just gave a autistic difference to the character but, changes that stats as well. Now this system 
 comes with some pros and cons. A pro is that you can change the stats and skills to better suit 
 your playing style, a con is if you want to make a really bad-ass looking character you better 
 not plan on using him/her in online matches or versus matches.
  
  The sound of the game is great and quite epic. The sound effects are also very good. And as always 
 the announcer for each match makes no sense and is always enthusiastic about the fighting. The 
 voice actors for the game are good, not great but good. Overall the sound is just right for the 
 game and feels like Soul Calibur.
  
  All other aspects of Soul Calibur IV are great. The online matches hardly ever lag, the characters 
 are well balanced, the Star Wars guest characters (The Apprentice and Darth Vader for the PS3 version) 
 are done reasonably well but don't quite fit in with the rest of the cast. Overall Soul Calibur 
 IV is an amazing fighting game with lots of fun. If you're a fighting game fan you should definitely 
 pick this game up, if you not you might want to give it a rent instead. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nathaniel_1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  Reviews: Soul Calibur IV (PS3, 360)
  And the soul continues to burn
  
  Nathaniel Nehrbass  09/15/08
  
  The Soul Calibur franchise is considered, by many, to offer 
 the quintessential fighting experience, so topping previous entries within the series 11-year history 
 is no small order. But Namco Bandai's latest entry into the world of weapon-based combat easily 
 proves itself as the dominant fighting game of the series, and will undoubtedly outshine most other 
 challengers in the fighting genre for quite some time. 
  
  Soul Calibur 4 brings to the table 32 fighters, most of which can be unlocked within the first 
 hour or two of play. This robust roster contains fighters from all the past Calibur entries from 
 the deadly Ivy to the impeccably quick Taki. With so many characters at its disposal the issue 
 of balanced gameplay takes on a noticeable role. The previous entry in the series, SC3, struggled 
 with some of its balancing issues, so with so many characters in SC4 there were understandable 
 reasons for concern. But, rest assured the gameplay is phenomenal.
  
  Many of the characters moves remain the same and the responsiveness and relative ease at which 
 even the most elaborate of moves can be executed is impressive. And while gameplay sticks relatively 
 close to the formula that has garnered the series so much success, SC4 manages to bring with it 
 some interesting new tactics. Most notable of the new additions are the match-ending, critical 
 finish moves. These moves, when executed, bring the fight to a cinematic end, with each character 
 delivering his or her own brand of justice in their own personal way. But while it may sound like 
 an anti-climactic way to end the match, critical finishes are a new tactic used as counter measures 
 against those who spend most of the match with the guard button held down.
  
  The create-a-character system is as robust as ever, and we will all be undoubtedly watching Youtube 
 videos on how to make our favorite gaming icons in the following months to come. Namco Bandai has 
 already provided the first add-on set of clothing to help expand your wardrobe and hopefully more 
 DLC is on the way. (Kratos anyone?)
  
  A highly anticipated online mode finally makes its long overdue debut and adds an immeasurable 
 amount of replay value to an already fantastic package. Vary rarely did I encounter lag, and there 
 is little to match the feeling of creating your own custom warrior and bringing it online to dominate 
 the masses. 
  
  While the game isn't prefect, there are just too many positives in SC4 to not consider it as possibly 
 the greatest fighting game ever made. While Darth Vader may not be as cool as we all hoped, and 
 it would be nice to see expanded create-a-character features such as face manipulation (a la Tiger 
 Woods) , they are just minute bumps in a road that undoubtedly leads to greatness. And with its 
 long overdue inclusion on an online mode, SC4 is a game which we will all be playing for months 
 to come.
  
  And in the era of pick up and play gaming, it's comforting to see such longevity offered within 
 a fighting game.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 - 9.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: versiononev1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 15, 2008 2:22 am PT
Review:  This is the newest sequal in the Soul Calibur series it combines the latest graphics and gameplay 
 using the PS3 powerful engine, great game play but the lifespan of the game is not impressive, 
 the destructable Enviroments and action scene within fight sense has been taken away, the story 
 mode is very short and it can be completed with a day or half a day if you set you mind to it, 
 but the new introduction of the Star Wars character has been quite surpising as i thought that 
 they might not work but they fit in very well with the game. The PS3 version includes Darth Vader 
 with is a mix between Mitsurugi with his katana and Cervantes with his long and pistol sword as 
 he is as fast but uses high power and direct sword attacks which work quite well, all in all good 
 fun alround a must buy also as theres nothing like this on the ps3 except Tekken Dark Resurection 
 but this is better much better 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Omnimike
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 14, 2008 2:59 pm PT
Review:  No matter what you hear from others, this is the best Soul Calibur offered up to date. 
  
  Since there are tons of reviews out there, I'll *try* to keep it short:
  
  ~Good point~
  
 -Online mode: it's the thing that makes this game so different than the previous games; let's face 
 it, you can never explore the true depth of SC's fighting system until you've faced good players 
 that makes you wonder what you can do to improve yourself. The arcade and survival ranking also 
 motivates you to improve your record.
  
  -Customization: this was introduced in SC3, but back then it was only for cosmetic purpose, now 
 with actual stats associated with the pieces, you can have fun optimizing your equipment for different 
 purposes. The wonderful thing is that you can still customize your character without worrying about 
 the stats (just for the look) to use in standard versus/arcade that doesn't use the stats.
  
  -Improved graphics: finally I can say that this looks better than the Dreamcast version!!
 
  
  -Balanced game-play: I agree that some character are harder to use than others, but I think in 
 general the moves are well balanced, I don't see a way to cheat to win all the time. Note: some 
 people believe that some characters are overpowered but the truth is that you have to learn to 
 properly defend yourself.
  
  -Bonus Star Wars characters: some says it's marketing stuff, I think they're an interesting addition 
 regardless.
  
  -Honor system: it motivates you to do all kind of stuff, but it's pretty standard thing since Xbox360 
 introduced achievement thing.
  
  ~Bad point~
  -Online match-making interface is simply horrible. When you select "Quick match" you would probably 
 get 5-10 error messages before actually connecting to someone.
  
  -Shallow story: at least it's short and you don't have to read tons of stuff like in SC3. As a 
 RPG fan I still want more.
  
  -DLC: It's a shame to actually remove stuff from the game and sell them piece by piece. What IMO 
 would be acceptable is for example, after a few months, they add several characters to the game 
 with a bunch of new equipment (say 2-3 set) . Or maybe a new mode. But please no horse armor.
  
  All in all, they did a terrific job of making this into the best Soul Calibur up to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nightfox31
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 12, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  This game is god but it lacks in certain areas. What I mean is that without a truly effective grab 
 and hold system in place the blocking seems like a thing of the past. I don't know about the other 
 PS3 owners but personally I am sick of getting shafted for the "bonus" characters. First we got 
 the creepy pedophile guy from Tekken now Darth Vader? C'mon, if I wanted to play as the creepy 
 pedo guy I'd buy that crappy fest of a game they call Tekken. Now, dont take this to offensive 
 Star Wars nerds, you know who you are, but personally, I would have rather have had Yoda or even 
 hey, Bandai/Namco, how about someone in the Star Wars galaxy other than Yoda or Vader. Hmm. Maybe 
 Luke Skywalker, Han Solo, Chewbacca or even better the pimp daddy of them all Lando. Vader is slow 
 and the apprentice is oh so fast. Overall, however, this game is solid and worth the moeny as long 
 as you enjoyed the other Soul Caliburs, if you havent you will not enjoy this Yoda lovin game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Berserkerz
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 10, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is back. 
  with the biggest eye-candy game ever, 
  super smooth, technically proficient graphics,
  perfect feel of the fighting, 
  and a billion 
 customization capabilities, 
  this game is great. 
  
  but though, that's the only good part. 
  the game will, eventually like every fighting games 
 ever, 
  be very repetitive. 
  Trying to finish the same game over and over again, 
  only with different characters isn't enough. 
  It gets old VERY quickly, and it's really short. 
 
  The story has no sense of epic-ness at all, 
  no cheese, no suspense, nothing. 
  you just get the satisfaction of 'hey, i beat the game' 
  but after 20 times, it won't be as 
 satisfying. 
  
  The bottom line IS, 
  the game is only fun if you have friends. 
  online friends, OR real friends, 
  it makes the whole trip worthwhile. 
  It's such a fun experience 
 with your friends, 
  especially if they all made their little people, 
  and then they lose, 
  and then you can just sing the owned song to them kinda thing. it's actually 
 quite fun. 
  
  Only buy this game if you REALLY love fighting games, love to just play one match every once in 
 a while when you're bored, or when you have friends coming over every single day. Especially different 
 friends everyday makes more competition to be pwn3d. unless of course, you finally GET pwn3d. 
 
  
  - Berserkerz
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jokoo
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 8, 2008 7:34 am PT
Review:  This game obviously has good graphics. They are fluid and the character models are awesome for 
 the most part. There are some clipping issues with the equipment. The animations are great, but 
 like most games, characters toss around these huge weapons like they are cardboard -- Its comical 
 every time you see the characters pick up soul edge. There are a few levels where the design seems 
 to make them look just Ok or ugly.
  
  The music is ok, it fits, but is pretty much the same as it was on the dream cast. The star wars 
 music is good, but Star Wars shouldn't even be involved in this game.
  
  The dialog and is cheesy, voice acting is weak and the in-game voice samples are way too prominent. 
 I can't even play this game around my girlfriend or friends because they hear the voice samples 
 and instinctively start to repeat and mock them because they are repetitive and sound so ridiculous. 
 How many times do I have to hear "this is it" "not so fast" or "im sorry"? Oh yeah, every time I 
 do that move I have to hear it. I find myself avoiding some moves so I don't have to hear them 
 talk. Keep it on japanese voices so you don't laugh or get annoyed. Its much better when you don't 
 know what they are saying.
  
  The character editor makes sense to me because I have played games all my life, but it is very 
 confusing to anyone who hasn't. The order the design elements are in, the way you change your body 
 type or pitch of your voice, the way the color black and having no equipment selected appear to 
 be the same thing, for some reason you can't just start with a blank character - you have to auto-generate 
 one and then get rid of all the equipment, there are no tool tips for any of the options, the way 
 the tabs on the menu's are, the confusing stat and skill selection... game spot says its a "robust" 
 designer, but its definately not user friendly to someone that isn't a hardcore gamer.
  
  The story mode is one word, lame. Its very easy on normal, which is fine but why don't you make 
 that the easy setting. The initial stories are told with text only, the cutscenes are alright animation 
 wise but they make no sense unless you spend time studying the characters in the museum and the 
 voice acting is god awful cheese.
  
  Seriously, in like 20 minutes you can unlock most of the characters and the rest of the time you 
 spend getting items for your character editor. Of course when you get a new item it just says something 
 like "new equipment is available for purchase" and you don't even know what it is till you brave 
 all your loading screens and go to the editor and see you got a lame pair of boots. The conditions 
 to get these pieces are totally random too, its like they had a computer generate the conditions 
 (for example - block 3 times and you get these gloves) . And from what I can see, they don't even 
 tell you the conditions you have to go buy a strategy guide or look online. Shouldn't the game 
 do that work for you. Motivation is goal oriented behavior, why are you going to work for equipment 
 you don't even know what it is or how to get it?
  
  And what is my motivation to keep playing this game? How are they going to make you play this game 
 for more than 3 days and feel ok with paying top dollar for it? I have no clue. Unlocking equipment? 
 Or playing tower mode and just reaching a point where you throw the controller because the computer 
 is so cheap ( I have flash backs of playing street fighter for SNES and breaking my controller 
 when I couldn't beat M. Bison, this game hasn't progressed much since then as far as game modes) . 
 There is online play, but there isn't really a skill matching system so I play people that have 
 no life other than this game and kill me over and over and over, fun.
  
  Oh wait they have a skill system. Its really not that great. The skills are nothing epic. They 
 are a nice addition, but seem overly complex they way they are presented and somehow lifeless. 
 You can play this game knowing nothing about skills and you will do fine. Thats how much of a difference 
 they dont' make.
  
  I've always thought fighting games seemed like half games, because you have these great characters 
 and great moves but zero interactivity with the environment, no adventures to go on, just 1 on 
 1 fights. This game doesn't break the mold in any way. Its Soul Calibur one with better graphics 
 and a crappier single player mode. I am angry I spent 60 bucks on it because I read all these review 
 of how great it is, when it hasn't really progressed. You can break equipment, thats cool except 
 its been done before and its cool to play with for 5 minutes.
  
  And why are there even Star Wars characters in this game? Don't get me wrong. I love Star Wars 
 movies, but they have to balance the game so your jedi loses everything that is cool about him. 
 Light sabers break swords in one hit. Jedi dont' run out of force power in 3 moves. I see Darth 
 Vader dying to Mitsurugi and think WTF? Darth Vader can toss him across the room by waiving his 
 hand, but why do I keep nailing on his neck and his head hasn't fallen off, my light saber seems 
 defective. 
  
  So why do I give this game a 6 if I hate the game so bad? Because the core element of Soul Calibur 
 is there and I like it. Good responsive controls in a weapon fighting game. I just wish they fixed 
 certain aspects of the controls to discourage button mashing, you can play this game and be quite 
 good at it by just blindly hitting buttons, which makes me think what the eff is the point of learning 
 moves.
  
  and speaking of which, what is up with the way the buttons are explained in the moves list. Why 
 do they always use the buttons A B K and G. Seriously, just use the actual buttons that are on 
 the game pad. It would make it much more approachable. And there should be some fun tutorial for 
 every character where you train and use every one of your moves. Hey, i can't complain Im not making 
 games for a living... but if I was in charge of this game's development I'd be screaming at the 
 designer telling him this crap was unacceptable while it was still on paper before i made this 
 game that does nothing to progress the Soul Calibur series to current technologies capablities 
 other than a graphical face life and a bunch of characters to choose in an otherwise empty world. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supersonikk
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 12:49 pm PT
Review:  I bought SoulCalibur III because I liked the look of the front cover. I bought SoulCalibur IV because 
 SoulCalibur III was probably the best game I have ever played, so my expectations for SC4 were 
 very high. I was so excited about the game that I even made sure I would have the game before the 
 UK release date. I guess I knew deep down that I would end up being disappointed like with a lot 
 of the PS3 games I have bought.
  
  Probably the stupidest thing about the game is the Story mode. This kicks off the start of the 
 abysmal single player modes. Only four stages to clear before you reach 'the boss' character (if 
 you can call Algol a worthy boss) in the final fifth stage. New boss Algol has Soul Calibur and 
 Soul Edge linked to him on both of his hands, and a lot of his moves are over the top (such as 
 kicking you from the comfort of a magic throne to shooting a rainbow bubble from his hands) and 
 should anger a lot of fans of the series. The stories are all messed up - none of them seem to 
 make sense and all of them are too short. This is meant to be the equivalent of the mighty Tales 
 of Souls mode on SoulCalibur III? What an insult - Tales of Souls had much more stages, thoroughly 
 explained story lines, a worthy boss and interactive cut scenes. Its as if they purposely decided 
 to go back a step.
  
  The Tower of Lost Souls mode is probably the most rewarding thing about the game - you fight loads 
 of characters to either ascend or descend through the tower. It does get boring and seem pointless 
 after a while, but at least you receive tons of items and weapons and this is enough to make it 
 seem worthwhile but it still couldn't hold a candle to Chronicles of the Sword on SoulCalibur III. 
 The last offline single player mode is Arcade - the same as story without the story and slightly 
 more stages and more pointless. Hey! I think I've found the word that best describes this game.
 
  
  Multiplayer offline versus is what you would expect - fun to play with friends who are any good 
 at the game and can be played for hours - and plus they've added a feature from SoulCalibur II 
 where you choose whether you want to fight with special weapons and effects or not. Online is what 
 will keep the game alive until the next SoulCalibur - play thousands of people online of different 
 abilities, ranked or unranked, and see how you fare against others. It is brilliant and is what 
 will keep me playing this game for a long time, but still Namco Bandai have managed to screw us 
 over a little. In Pro Evolution Soccer 2008, if someone purposely disconnects from a match, they 
 automatically lose that match. In SoulCalibur IV, if someone purposely disconnects from a fight 
 before someone wins, nothing happens - no one wins or loses. Stupid.
  
  The final feature of the game is character creation, which has been widely praised. It is very 
 good, but still kind of pointless. The only fighting styles available are just taken from characters 
 available on the roster (apart from Darth Vader and The Apprentice) . Speaking of the roster, it 
 includes most of the souls available in SC2 and SC3 but has some new, pointless characters, mostly 
 found in the bonus characters tile. None of the new characters are favourites online (I would say 
 the favourites are Siegfried, Cervantes and Kilik) . Anyway, back to the character creation. You 
 can customise clothes, looks and colour but the clever part comes when you buy new weapons. The 
 weapons have values for impact and stuff, but these values are limits. To have the full potential 
 of the weapon, you add up to four effects to fulfil the value of these limits to make it as good 
 as possible.
  
  Now, more negativity. The thing that annoys me the most about this game compared to SoulCalibur 
 III is the atmosphere of the game. SC3 has brilliant music that goes perfectly with each stage. 
 I used to play Tales of Souls mode over and over again to see the epic battle between Nightmare 
 and Siegfried then hear the memorable music that follows and slash it out in the mighty Lost Cathdral. 
 SC4 has none of that. The music seems detached and unbelonging and the stages are as though they 
 have been put together heartlessly in a rush. None of it feels right, apart from the actual fighting.
 
  
  I haven't talked about the gameplay yet - it is still of the highest quality. It is so lovely to 
 knock the living s*** out of a friend sitting right next to you or a total stranger across an Internet 
 connection. The AI is quite impressive as well - although on easy and normal modes they don't pose 
 much of a threat, on the hard through to edge master difficulties, the AI will start to adapt to 
 your playing style and use it against you. Tower of Lost Souls in particular becomes hard to a 
 point where it becomes frustrating to an unskilled player or a challenge worth completing for the 
 skilled. The gameplay is almost identical to SC3, but you will notice the cool addition of item 
 destruction and realise what characters have the upper hand on another clearly. For example, Kilik 
 is considered fast but since his Kali-Yuga is so long, it takes longer than you think to land a 
 blow on the other player. This would make it hard for him when against a fast character with a 
 short weapon with a lot of movement, such as Taki. To round this section off, I will say that I 
 have never used the new "soul gauge" or "critical finish" features and nor have I seen them used 
 against me. Apart from that bit of pointlessness, gameplay = amazing.
  
  The graphics are almost as good as the gameplay. The characters look very real - too real. The 
 characters have been overdone. Ivy's assets are like balloons and she is so near to being topless 
 that you become worried about the awkwardness of item destruction coming into play when fighting 
 her. Voldo is almost naked too - I don't want to play as him to avoid more awkwardness when someone 
 walks past the TV. Apart from the nudity, all characters look amazing apart from the boss Algol, 
 who looks like Goh off Virtua Fighter 4: Evolution - a last generation game. The stages are done 
 just as well as they have been on previous games but lack the artistic design that made them great 
 in SC3.
  
  Sound effects in the game are brilliant as ever - every clash, bump and grind sounds so right. 
 The voice acting, however, isn't so great. A lot of the voices don't go and the lip syncing is 
 terrible - it's obviously originally in Japanese (on my version anyway) . Lastly, the music. As 
 I have already mentioned, it is okay but it doesn't set the scene like in the previous games. Even 
 the music for the ending credits is noticeably worse than on SC3.
  
  Overall, I really enjoy this game and will probably keep playing it for a long time (well, maybe 
 until Tekken 6 comes out) because of the online play and character creation unlockables - I have 
 already played it for well over 100 hours. However, anyone who thinks this game is perfect has 
 definitely never played SoulCalibur 2 and 3 when they came out. It pains me to just give a game 
 in one of my favourite series' 7 out of 10, but with all the flaws and when I compare it to previous 
 SoulCalibur games, I can't really give it any more.
  
  Take a look at my GameSpot account for more reviews. Add me on the PS3, my ID is now JEZKUN. See 
 y'at the fight =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kuromankuro
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 10:38 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game and have been having lots of fun with it. Great character design, great gameplay, 
 Meh story... anyway, this game lives up to expectations and even goes a little farther. My main 
 point though is... While it is an improvement over the Soul Calibur 2 (Don't you dare even believe 
 3 was worth buying) it isn't a substantial one. Also, I believe that the inclusion of Star Wars 
 characters is a gimmick. While it is fun to choke somebody as Vader, it is a bit odd that he is 
 so nerfed when it comes to lightsaber combat. Perhaps for the next game they should use characters 
 that don't use omnipotent weapons.
  
  Uh oh,... I'm a bit too short for the minimum text count. I better think of something... OH!
 
  
  ahem,... I'm gonna sing the doom song now!
  DOOM DOOM DOOOOOMY DOOM DOOOMA DOOMA DOOOMYUH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: titiembe
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:58 am PT
Review:  This is my first Soul Caliber game that I've owned, and it's pretty tight. The good things include 
 a wide variety of characters to choose from (my favorites are Sophitia and Hilde) , and a big cusomization 
 mode. Tower of Lost Souls is fun and challenging, and the online is probably the funnest part of 
 the game, although the annoying button spammers and mashers. There is also the honor part, where 
 you get honors, which are basically trophies for achieving special things in the game.
  
  The bad parts of the game include a under-developed story mode, and how they took out the multiplayer 
 feature that allowed you to battle with more than one character. I find that some characters (Killik 
 and sometimes the Apprentice) can be overused and quite annoying, but nonetheless, skill can overtop 
 all that. Still, this game will keep you entertained for awhile and is one of the best fighting 
 games I've played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dagangstapimp
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is definitely a great sequel to the Soul Calibur Series. With improved graphics, 
 as well as small additions like critical finish, the game can be incredibly fun when playing with 
 others.
  
  Gameplay is great as all Soul Calibur games. The fun is more in the multiplayer rather than arcade. 
 Online can be great when you play "Player Matches" but ranked is full of button mashers so you 
 might want to stay away from ranked matches. 
  
  The graphics are amazing and you can enjoy customizing characters in "Character Creation" but the 
 guys could use some better gear since the females got all the nice stuff although there is no complaining 
 there.
  
  I really don't have many issues with this game and I think it well deserves its 9.0. As long as 
 you have someone else to play with or hit up the player matches this game will be far from a "30-minute 
 game". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonicspeed007
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2008 3:34 am PT
Review:  This is the best fighting game i have ever played.
  The characters are very good but the best part of this game is probably the create a soul mode. It 
 is very fun to create other video game characters. story mode is a bit short but its fun. Arcade 
 mode is more fun. the tower of lost souls is probably the best mode since it has a very long lifespan. And 
 it is very entertaining. the later floors can be a little frustrating but its fun when you win. The 
 online mode is great and is a fun way to show of your characters. The guest characters work great. I 
 have heard that Yoda can be a bit overpowered. Darth Vader is pretty well balanced. It also has a 
 very long lifespan due to all the unlockables. The character roster is pretty well balanced too. the 
 apprentice from the force unleashed is a fun character but just a little over powered. Overall a 
 great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaximumD
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2008 1:19 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't a big fan of Soul Calibur back then. I am more into Tekken and Street Fighter. It never 
 really appealed to me, but I had no choice but to purchase this game since their was no other fighting 
 games coming out soon. I actually got into SC4 and was surprise how good it is. From the graphics 
 to the Custom characters.
  
  The graphics in this game is incredible. I can not believe how great the characters and backgrounds 
 look. Everything looks so detailed. Almost each part of the armor has details and not just 1 color. 
 The way how Armors gets broken looks incredible and you can actually feel the impact when it does. 
 This is really well done. I haven't seen major glitches yet. There's one minor thing though is 
 when you have a cape, your arms can be seen that it goes through it. It's not a big deal, but I 
 guess they didn't have time or didn't care about that. Other than that, this game looks and feels 
 great.
  
  The controls are very user friendly. You have a side slash, down slash, kick, and a block button 
 on the front. There is also an assigned button that allows you to do a special finish if you tend 
 to knock out all of you opponents armor. Just push the Special Finish button right after and you 
 will see a scene where your characters finishes your opponent with 1 hit. Timing is tricky on this 
 one, but that's better because it won't be abused. 
  
  The Music in this game really needs to be improved. Almost all of the songs doesn't sound like 
 it belongs in a fighting game. Namco usually pretty good with this on Tekken but I don't know what 
 happened here. Sound effects are great and love the option to set to Japanese Dialog. That makes 
 the voice-overs more enjoyable.
  
  The most fun part about Soul Calibur 4 is Customizing your characters. When you play the game, 
 you will unlock items, such as, Armors, weapons, hair styles, and etc. Almost everything can be 
 custom, even the size of a female boobs to the massive muscles of a male. Voices can be changed 
 too. Creating your own character and using them to fight online is one of the games main selling 
 point. You can show off your custom characters online. That is just so cool. I've seen people even 
 created Subzero (Mortal Kombat) , Naruto, Tidus, Chun-Li, Ryu, Ken, M. Bison, and many many more. 
 
  
  The only problem I see in this game is button mashing. You can actually beat the game with button 
 mashing. Some players online button mash and beat skilled players which is wrong. They should really 
 balance it out a bit like Tekken, where you need to be skilled player to really play against other 
 skilled ones.
  
  Overall, this is a must have for all fighting fans. I hope Tekken 6 will learn from this custom 
 system. I would love to see that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 4, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Heyz, well my mate got me into buying this. I dont mind it. Online is good. Graphics are good. 
 Character Creation is probley my favourite bit.
  
  Story
  Story modes are short. Sorta just to introduce you to the character. Theres other modes like Tower 
 of Lost Souls which is where the single player really is.
  
  Online
  Havnt played online much but I enjoyed the online i have played
  
  Character Creation
  Funniest 
 bit for me. Making people like Altair and stuff then trying them out is really fun
  
  My thoughts
  I dont mind this game. I wish i didnt spend the money on it honstley i dont like 
 games like this but was talked into it buying it. I liked it at first, but now i remember the reason 
 why i didnt wanna buy this. The combo's and stuff are cool but im not exactly ganna remember right, left+ 
 B, G, K+ down which annoys me. Especially against the AI they pull off the best moves ever and own 
 you, and your sitting there like.. WTF!
  
  Overall
  Good, i just find it frustrating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordasher2002
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 3, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  I was always waiting for Tekken 6 to come out and I figured Soul Caliber 4 would be just another 
 rehash of Tekken's gameplay mechanics. So I didn't expect much although the reviews were good I 
 had my doubts cause I though Tekken could not be beaten.
  
  I was so very wrong about everything I thought about Soul Caliber 4. 
  
  I love this game big 
 time, it is the type of game that everyone should own, just because its easy to play and hard to 
 master and tons of fun for anybody I garauntee.
  
  Its got its own unique gameplay mechanics very different from Tekken and I think I'm more in favor 
 of Soul Caliber now then Tekken now.
  
  I gave this game a 10 just because I really couldn't think of any flaws maybe the online mode isn't 
 so good but what I found to be the coolest thing about it is the whole create your own fighter 
 mode. I always said thats fricken the most coolest aspect of the game, then you get to use them 
 and its real great stuff to do some rounds with your own custom fighter.
  
  lots of customizable features to keep you playing the game for a long time.
  
  I got really 
 excited when I started playing this game now it has become the game that gets played here and there, 
 once in a while to kill time, or play a couple of rounds during a TV comercial. It won't get old 
 for a while I'm sure.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anelasama
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 9:00 am PT
Review:  Graphics mean the world to a measly person like me, so when I bought Soul Calibur IV I expected 
 nothing but the best. It definitely did live up to my expectations. The key lighting was gorgeous 
 and no detail was spared on the armor and weapons. The movement flowed like it was supposed to, 
 and with my TV playing back at 120 Hz, I was able to detect any mishaps, but I didn't really find 
 much.
  
  As for the gameplay itself, well, I'm kind of disappointed at the VERY short story mode and the 
 arcade mode didn't fulfill me. Tower of Lost Souls was relatively difficult, but not impossible. 
 I will be sad once I finish that part of the game though. The game really shines when you play 
 online. I was also very fond of the character creation --- they offered a range of armor and clothing 
 and me, being an anime fan, I was able to create lots of anime characters for my (and the people 
 I play against) amusement.
  
  Overall an excellent game. It outshone Soul Calibur III, but whether I like this version or SCII, 
 I'm still not sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlucardDarkgule
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  this game was highly anticipated as far as myself. i really wanted alot out of it. though the add 
 ons are not abundant enough. im not concerned about the music stuff. but i really wish they would 
 give another jedi type addon where you may make your own. in that matter i feel jipped. also there 
 are other add on features i would like to see. i payed for the first charecter equipment add on 
 and i was hoping to get the armor for the helmets that you get from the add on. from an artists 
 point of view when you equip the helm of nightmare sc2 the look of the helm is flat where as the 
 other armors are glossy. this however can still look cool with the armors but i just wished i had 
 the other pieces to the armor. also i want the skeleton skin as a under garmet. and more voices 
 like the growling voices some have in the game. also it would be great if you got algol's armor. 
 and the online has issuse. you should be in a chat room of sorts where a list of other players 
 are and there sould be an indicator showing who is in a match and who isn't. i had in one day spent 
 20 or 30 minutes waiting to get into a match. matches should be chosen and ready not roulette to 
 see if your gonna play or be sent back to the match options menu.
  all in all this is a great game with lots of reaply and infinite add on possibilities, many hours 
 of entertainment, as well as innovative as is always with this games epic installments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Compilation
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 1, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  First of all, please Refer to Gamespot's Review if not already, for more information on this game. 
 I am simply giving my personal opinions to review Soul Calibur IV adding that to some references 
 for these reasoning's only. There is no background information, so if you unaware of what I am 
 reviewing, read Gamespot's review to begin with. Hints for one of the game modes can be found in 
 my review! Read on and enjoy! 
  
  -OVERALL IMAGE-
  
  Soul Calibur IV is just alright! Despite the resplendent main menu screen which is lush full of 
 HD greatness, gameplay overall 'animates' smoothly better unlike its predecessors. Realism is high 
 and rewarding. However, the game modes featured in Ubisofts' possibly final installment of Soul 
 Calibur is abysmal and disappointing. Thus of what level of potential it could've been because 
 I've always been a Soul Calibur fan.
  
  Otherwise, the amounts of player content are at their disposal unlike any other fighting game. 
 Making dream characters is a great tradition in the latest versions of Soul Calibur. I will begin 
 concentrating mostly why I dislike/like this game.
  
  1) Story mode - substandard fun, replayablility is small.
  
  2) Tower of the Lost Souls - Time 
 consuming fun proportionately equal to stress levels. The main mode selection in SC IV is this. 
 Continuous play is likely.
  
  -GRAPHICS-
  
  Graphically, this game is a masterpiece. There are some glitches with Creation mode of the game, 
 which inevitably is going to occur depending on armor and hair. Oblivious to the Character creation 
 mode, the main side look of the fighting scenario between opposing characters, combined with environments, 
 is gorgeous. 
  
  -REMINSCING COMPARISON- Soul Calibur III vs.
  
  Soul Calibur III's story mode included cut scene operated instances for the player, where as this 
 version doesn't. (Cut scene instances where the player is required to push a button in a set time 
 according to a particular scene to progress) . Contents like this defined the game well, generally 
 spicing up the fighting game experience because of the variation playability. You were constantly 
 at it instead of watching an ordinary cut-scene sluggishly. The Quantity of matches and 'alternated 
 endings' for characters were good also, but most changes are shocking.
  
  SOUL CALIBUR IV
  Story mode and Towers of the Lost Souls mode.
  
  I like this mode initially 
 because obtaining the player's Soul Edge/Extra weapon (s) is definitely rewarding in conjunction 
 to the other main mode of this game, 'Tower of the Lost Souls'. There are two main modes to this 
 game, plus the online mode for players with internet connection. Story mode isn't the best and 
 foremast player-desired, but difficulty is considerably easier once the player receives unlockable 
 weapon statuses. 
  
  -HINTS-
  
  HINT: Demolishing the opposing enemies in the Tower of the Lost Souls mode is necessary in places, 
 while if you intend to unlock items to increase customisation, which are mostly armor assortments, 
 objectives are different to acquiring just a K. O.
  These can vary uncannily as ring-outs, switching with party members, performing attack combos, 
 or critically finishing off the enemy for supreme damage. (This last requirement is by far so notoriously 
 hard to perform in any match. The timing is impeccably slim for the chance of opportunity, and 
 for what it's worth, you're probably up against another opponent anyway, and if you were to fail 
 in defeating them, this would all be for nothing.) There are no informative descriptions anywhere 
 in the game into how you can unlock these items primarily for the Towers of the Lost Souls mode, 
 so the use of reading an online guide to give support is recommendable. 
  
  Please also note that a high fraction of the game's hidden unlockables can only be found in this 
 mode, while buying other main characters and progressing in Story mode will unlock those alternates.
 
  
  
  Pros 
  
  + Player Customisation is luxuriously entertaining. Armor is textured well, muscularity levels, 
 pitch of voice, and posture testing and Test play settings are good to tweak with, etc. 
  
  + Symbolic Anime-like characters look by far more realistic, but don't worry, you can choose between 
 color palettes to itemise the effects, so experimentation is greater!
  
  + Skills are introduced into the game in addition to leveling up a characters weapon; or instead 
 of character level. Skills are categorised in Power, Impact, Boost, Gauge and Special work like 
 a charm! There is many to choose from which help give your player an edge on aggression and weakness. 
 
  
  + Online Compatibility is new!
  
  Cons
  
  - The best of these skills require armor specifics, skill points are distributed through some of 
 the armors in the customization part tab. This can become seriously ironic. Tweaking takes forever!
 
  
  - Story mode is bad; Playable, but significantly dull to replay.
  
  - Tower of the Lost Souls mode is standard but playable. Stressful at times yet entertaining. Unlockable 
 items' objectives require Idiot Guides from internet sources because they are of the unexpected. 
 
  
  - 'Exclusive' characters, Vadar and Yoda who appear 'at current', on next gen consoles Playstation 
 3 and Xbox 360 respectively, give bad definition to the 'Soul Calibur universe'. 
  
  Soul Calibur is a must buy Role-playing adventure if you term it towards the customizable content. 
 Its fun, but may last short. Online mode is a definite play because customizable characters alike 
 can be taken to show the world. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: siLVURcross
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I never thought I'd be playing this game. After SC3 (Which I hated completely) I 
 decided to never play another SC game. However one day my friend brought it over, and we sat down 
 and clashed swords for the first time. The execution of gameplay felt natural (probably due to 
 me having played the others but none the less!) .
  
  To start off, how does it look? Simple answer. It looks fantastic. The characters have never been 
 so brightly detailed in all my life. They look absolutely splendid, the stages look fantastic, 
 not to mention character creation characters look good as well. It's everything you'd expect SC4 
 SHOULD look like on the PS3.
  
  Sadly, the story cannot compare to it. But then again, I always thought SC sucked in that department. 
 There's just so much sword hunting and soul devouring you can take after 4 games. There's also 
 the standard Arcade mode where you fight enemies etc, the typical. As well, there's the new Tower 
 of the Souls mode where you simply climb a large tower fighting enemies, fulfilling certain requirements 
 to gain items.
  
  However, the single player aspect of the game really lack any real depth to it. It doesn't feel 
 complete, it's just there for you to get characters, get gold or anything. 
  
  So does the multiplayer chalk it back up? Of course it does. Though there's a lack of any team 
 battles, multiplayer is fun and exciting. With pretty much a full roster of characters dating since 
 SC1, it's not hard to find a favorite and stick with it. Add in the Star Wars characters, and you've 
 got a neat line up of characters that anyone will find appealing. The battles in multiplayer are 
 pretty much the same as you'd expect in SC. Horizontal attacks, vertical attacks, kicks, guard, 
 the same works. But this time, they reworked the guarding system, hate those guys who do single 
 hits on you and block till the timer goes down? Well Namco added in something called Armor Break 
 (Pretty sure that's not the name, but whatever.) So you can actually lose your guard and be vulnerable 
 for something called a Critical Finish. A new move that only works when the opponent's armor is 
 broken and you've pressed a certain button combination. Critical Finish allows you quickly win 
 the battle in one swoop. Now this might seem unfair, but armor over time regenerates, meaning if 
 you're gauge is blinking red, attack back! Simple.
  
  Another feature they added to the game was Character Creation. Those who remember it from SC3 know 
 what this is. It allows you to create a character, or even customize current characters to your 
 need. Altering costumes, weapons etc. This time around however, they simplified character creation 
 to styles of characters already in game. (Except for the Star Wars characters.) They added a ton 
 of more customizable items, from head to toe, from white to black coloring, it's all in there.
 
  
  Lastly, you can also in the Options menu, install the game onto the HDD if you find loading times 
 to be long, though I haven't tested the times yet, things seem to load a lot faster to me. You 
 can also change the voices to Japanese, but Japanese Darth Vader voice? C'mon!
  
  There isn't much else to say if you've already played previous Soul Caliburs, this one will be 
 no different. However, give it a try anyways, you just might be surprised. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: johnnycool-22
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur series started from psx (soulcalibur) , then ps2 (soulcalibur 2 & 3) with a very good 
 graphics engine and fast gameplay. Now It's on the ps3 with the revolutionary game soulcalibur 
 IV! I have played a lot of fighting games like tekken , doa , kof and more...
  However my favourite was soulcalibur! I started playing with soulcalibur 3 and now with soulcalibur 
 IV.
  
  Soulcalibur IV has a story mode which is little disappointing , but the arcade , tower of lost 
 souls ,online mode and charcter creation are so good!
  You can choose between a lot of characters , as you can pick Darth Vader And The Appetience from 
 Star Wars...
  Now all have is to discover soulcalibur IV!!!
  
  
  MY GENERAL COMPLEXION IS TO BUY IT!!! Let's 
 
  
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StephenHu
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 30, 2008 10:50 am PT
Review:  Upon playing Soul Calibur IV, I was anticipating excellent animations, smooth gameplay, and detailed 
 graphics. I jumped into a basic match versus the CPU and got just that. The fighting model is great 
 with flashy visuals that back up the great swordplay. Playing against a friend is a lot of fun, 
 as well as online; albeit, it can be a little laggy at times. 
  Many have strong opinions against the Star Wars characters as guest characters in this game, but 
 I welcome them with open arms; don't people like more characters?
  Graphics-wise, I find the lighting effects tremendous and the character design flawless, the game 
 is simply a splendor to look at.
  The moves aren't terribly difficult to pull off so a newcomer can complete a match feeling like 
 the best fight choreographer. Masters are also able to hone their skills with specific moves attacking 
 specific body sections.
  All in all, this is a very functional fighting game and I give it a 9.0 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ubermensche
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Despite enhancements Soul Calibur IV fails to deliver the goods for the third straight installment. 
 Graphics, controls are obviously all improved. That has always been the case. The problem lies 
 in everything else. Ever since Soul Calibur II, Namco has tried to expand on alternate modes and 
 story progression methods.
  
  These have all failed miserably. The problem is that the story is a typical fighting game story 
 to begin with. The fact that the developers try to make a cohesive story is a bit mind-boggling. 
 The first Soul Calibur (Dreamcast) got it right. Mission mode was the best alternate mode to the 
 arcade/story mode. II and III tried to create story lines with cut scenes for every character. 
 What we ended up getting was a half-assed story mode that was neither interesting or inventive. 
 
  
  Once again the voice acting is pointless and downright horribly delivered. 
  
  I will most likely pass on this entirely or wait till it hits Greatest Hits price point before 
 I pick it up.
  
  The whole Star Wars crossover is proof that Namco may be running out of ideas. I mean seriously... lamest 
 crossover ever.
  
  I would rate this game lower but the core elements are as good as always and fighting fans will 
 find that interesting enough. I just have trouble supporting a product that has essentially been 
 rehashed so much already. With each installment I am hoping that Namco with find a revolutionary 
 way to incorporate story with a fighting game. Not only does the series deserve that treatment, 
 but the fighting genre in general needs a total makeover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKnightGamer
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 6:41 pm PT
Review:  First off, money well spent. This game was great in almost every way. I'm having a hard time deciding 
 whether I like Brawl or this game better.
  
  In this latest installment of the Soulcalibur series, you play over 20 characters and their quest 
 for the soul swords. I loved almost every one of the stories, but my favorites were Darth Vader's 
 and his apprentice. They fit into the game well, and told how they came. The only problem I had 
 with the story mode is that it is too short. For each character it is only 5 stages, the story 
 is over before you know it. But in the end, it makes up for it with awesome ending cut-scenes. I 
 can also see why each story is so short, mainly cause there are over 20 characters, each with their 
 own story.
  
  The fighting was sweet. You can deliver blows to your opponent and shatter your opponent's armor, 
 which I was really impressed with. Each character's moves and speacial attacks are different and 
 very interactive. It is also very satisfying when you defeat a opponent and listen to your character 
 gloat about it.
  
  Other than story mode, there's arcade mode, where you choose a character and go through 8 stages 
 battling enemies. It is very fun and a real challange. There is also other modes that can keep 
 you busy with this game for a couple of months. You can even have a friend over and battle each 
 other, which is extremely fun and exciting. After each battle you get money, which after you save 
 up can buy loads of extras. Like pics, models, weapons, and more. You can even sign into the Playstation 
 network and battle people over the network. The next best thing is the Character Creation in the 
 game. You can create and customize your very own character!
  
  Overall, this is one of the best games I have ever played. Definitly on my top ten. If you have 
 a PS3 or a xBOX 360 (which has Yoda instead of Darth Vader) , you should definitly get this game.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ghostgx
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2008 2:49 pm PT
Review:  A good attempt on the next generation consoles. I got the US Premium Edition, to which if you want 
 to obtain the 'Exclusive Downloadable' content, then you'll have to create a 'false' US account. 
 Piss easy to do!
  
  Graphics are gorgeous ... being an anorak ... the PS3 has been lighting and character animation ... that's 
 having played both in my opinions ... Also it's nice to see an 'install' option on the PS3. I am 
 not a PS3 fanboy!! This is my first Playstation console ... considering i've been a Sega fan before, 
 i mean i fell in love with Soul Calibur on the Dreamcast !!
  
  Algol is a mixture of some other fighting characters combined; Akuma; Orochi; Gill. (That would 
 be the best way of describing him.
  
  It was a little poor that 2 characters were re-used fort their endings! Not going to spoil it!
 
  
  Customisation is cool! but the Tower of Souls could had been a little more clearer on what your 
 'task' is, without having to refer to Gamefaqs. com
  
  Overall ... i like my fighting games and this looks a tad better the III on PS2.
  
  A pleasurable 
 joist of high testosterone if you want to see plenty of **** and arse getting kicked around!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tydi2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 7:20 am PT
Review:  I heard that this game was supposed to be the best in the series and i just recently rented it 
 to try it out and i must say it is the best in the series but i think they could have made the 
 story mode a bit longer. otherwise the multiplayer is awsome, lots of new characters to choose 
 from, a character creation ( which is one of my favourite parts of the game) . there has to be over 
 like 20 characters and another cool part to the game is you can play online. training mode is really 
 cool in this game becuase if you have a friend over you can train with him just set it to controller 
 instead of computer player. Oh forgot to mention something really cool, when you hit your enemy 
 a certain amount of times in one spot that peice of armor will break off, like it actually breaks 
 off and falls on the ground lol this also weakens there defence. If you have enjoyed the previous 
 soulcalibur games i highly reccomend you buy soulcalibur IV its almost perfect but there is some 
 bad sides to the game. but other then a short story mode this game is a great addition to the ps3 
 =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznbenjiman
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2008 2:08 pm PT
Review:  the fourth and latest installment of soul calibur iv was worth the wait the first game to come 
 out on the next gen consoles along with the first ever online capability of the soul soul series. 
 this game is a beautiful game with its graphics that move so smooth and controls that seem perfect. 
 to get more into detail we'll cover the parts of the game.
  graphics - the graphics of the game are visually beautiful especially on hd television
  gameplay 
 - the gameplay is easy enough for the new players and advance enough for the most vertran players.
 
  sound - the sound is great doesnt seem to be a problem with either the japanese audio or the english 
 audio.
  online - the online is great though there is lag and some times you are sent into an already full 
 session other than that its a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: richy36
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 8:03 pm PT
Review:  A simple game from start to finish. From the first moment you realise that there so much to do 
 your thrilled you have this title. The short but still enjoyable story mode offers a la tekken 
 fun for all. Lots of unlockables and a make a character feature offer both signature design and 
 fantastic fun. Difficult treasure unlockables on the ladder stage of the game make Soul Caliber 
 4 a challenge for the hard core. Graphically a masterpiece with smooth character design and backdrops 
 with detail near perfection as you slash and stab your opponent. No team battle mode stops this 
 title scoring higher and Must be included in the next version. Star Wars fans will hope that an 
 online update becomes available to match Yoda with Vader for play and is sadly not available yet. 
 Overall one for all gamers to have in there collection as Soul Caliber 4 is the game that gamers 
 of all genres can have fun with. Massive appeal for a game that maximises gamers enjoyment with 
 its simplicity. Enjoyment guaranteed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: voltzila
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  Well for those of you that know the series you can already guess or at lest have a good idea of 
 what to expect from Soul Calibur 4. There are new features and custom character options but you 
 can find those out for yourself. For me the biggest thing is that Nightmare has had some improvement 
 from what they did to him in 3 and at least now I can customize his move list to make it what it 
 used to be. 
  The thing that makes me sad though is that Yoda and Vader seem to have been screwed over by the 
 designers, Yoda has to do a half hop before all of his attacks so if you spam low attacks he will 
 never touch you. And Vader is slower then a boulder covered in syrup and trying to cross a floor 
 made out of ABC bubblegum. I just feel that if your going to add outside characters to a game like 
 this do some work on them and at least make them descent for play. On the other hand the Apprentice 
 is near god like and one of his standard throws will ring you out from almost center of some stages, 
 yet he looks so stupid in his standing pose. If he were holding that light saber any further back 
 he would cut his arm off. 
  All in all though it is a great fighting game, as long as people online would stop being annoying 
 with Kilik and button mashing with Maxi. For god's sake learn a character! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2008 11:00 am PT
Review:  Well where do i start?? This game is highly addictive and has a wide variety of characters to play 
 as. On top of that we have some guest characters...
  
  PS3-Darthvader, Starkiller
  
  Xbox 360-Yoda, Starkiller
  
  Wii-BOTH!?
  
  But anyways there are many levels to play from, 
 and every character has an awsome story to his/her storyline. 
  
  But it also has 2 new features, or one new feature actually. And those are
  Custom Characters
 
  Online Matches
  
  You dont always neccicarily have to play a ranked match, you can just play online matches w other 
 people for fun and not have to worry about the rankins and stuff, and i find that pretty cool.
 
  
  This game is highly addictive as well, it has a new feature called tower of souls where you go 
 up the floors in the tower and try to beat the people w certain advantages. And you can also gain 
 more cutom parts for CaS mode. Once you hit the 20th floor i believe you can also desend the floors, 
 and you have to go down 20 floors without dieing, and you only get two people to do this with. 
 Well enough said, i dont want to spoil the game for u, you're spoiling yourself if you dont get 
 the game! Have fun!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMammoth731
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  Since no doubt every fanboy and their mother is going to spaz at my review, let me qualify my statements. 
 In story mode, the difficulty is so piss easy I could play the game in my sleep, which makes it 
 boring. I can mash throw all day and never need to change it up. Now, to get a challenge I decided 
 to play the tower mode. At about floor 39-41, i ran into a brick fricken wall of stupidity. It 
 had been very difficult before then, but never stupidly difficult. In this case, they blocked nearly 
 every move, throws were still effective, but the 9 on 1 scenerio made the speed of the computer, 
 mixed with perfect counters/stuns/throws/quick attacks absolutely obsurd. So that being said, I 
 tried to learn the controls, which were unintuitive and poorly designed, and the layout of how 
 you were supposed to press them were terrible and buggy. Numerous times I'd have hit the right 
 combination the right way, but god forbid I didn't do it at the exact pace the game wanted, so 
 my guy stood there like a monkey and got his head cut off. The ridiculousness of the controls makes 
 the game frustrating, added with the difficulty of the later levels in the tower mode, you have 
 a game that makes throwing the controller likely.
  
  So, to give it one last shot, I tried to play it with a friend, who got equally upset that the 
 game was a button mashing fest. No controls were useful, just slam your controller against your 
 head until you win.
  
  This game was poorly designed, poorly made, and just all around terrible. If you're 14 looking 
 for a pair of melons to jerk off to, you'll love it, but thats about it.
  
  (each story mode takes about 10 minutes to beat, so all in all you can beat the entire "game" in 
 about 2 hours)
  
  Don't even waste your time on this terrible game.
  
  (oh the fanboys sure love my review... 0-6 recommendations. Nicely done.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 25, 2008 10:01 am PT
Review:  Unlike Soul Caliber III, which had modes with lots of playing time (perfect for a console) Soul 
 Caliber IV looks and feels like an arcade game and nothing more. One character's story is 20 minutes 
 long at most. Perfect for an arcade, not so much for a console.
  
  The difficulty is another problem. You'd try to play a character's story on Normal, and beat it 
 easily. Then you try to play it on Hard, and the difficulty goes way, way up. Most players won't 
 expect it.
  
  Another thing I found disappointing after SCIII, is that character creation was dumbed down. Rather 
 than being able to create your own characters, you can only edit and upgrade the current characters.
 
  
  Simply put, don't believe the good reviews, and at least rent this first. I was disappointed by 
 this game, which was clearly build to work for an arcade, rather than a console. In my opinion 
 Soul Caliber IV is a step backwards from the previous version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gondor235
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I rented the game, so that i could give it a try. Boy i was impressed big time. The graphics are 
 great, the new stage's are great fun to play on and really beautiful. However i the gameplay mechanics 
 haven't changed since soul calibur 2. I owned SC2 for XBOX and after playing soulcalibur 4, i found 
 that though the control scheme is different im still pressing the same buttons. Anyways, the game 
 was fun but after 3 days i finished the story mode in 10-15 minutes. and other modes within the 
 3 days. For a next-gen fighting game i was quite dissapointed seeing as Mortal kombat armageddon 
 to me had a great campaign where as Soul calibur's was kind of boring and dull. The cinematics 
 were dreadful.. i mean voice acting was horrible and the voice of some of the characters were so 
 annoying they were just so high pitched it got pretty lame. Anyways game is solid but rent it at 
 the maximum 7 days and you will be satsfied trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghosthorses81
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  I've been a fan of SC since the beginning, and have followed the game loyally, and Soul Calibur 
 4 is a great game. My only complaints come from the viewpoint of an avid fan with expectations 
 only set by Namco themselves in their past games. As far as graphics and controls go, both are 
 literally flawless. The addition of online play was a lot of fun initially, but due to any real 
 awards to leveling up your rank (other than bragging rights?) , it can get old fairly quickly. The 
 music is nothing special, and I'm still unclear if there really is a 'story' to the game. 
  
  But the real bummer in the game is the Character Creation mode. At first, it's exciting to 
 obtain all the items and have them at your disposal, but the reality of it is there isn't much 
 to get. I remember in SC 3 feeling there was an endless amount of items to obtain, and it kept 
 me playing for months trying get them. Comparing the two feels like a olympic sized swimming pool 
 (SC3) to a kiddy pool (SC4) . I'm sure there will be a lot of downloadable content in the future 
 (unfairly priced of course) , but it's a mean trick for Namco to play.
  
  So overall, great game and loads of fun to play, but it will be hard to shake the feeling you're 
 getting short handed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wwefan552
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 9:50 am PT
Review:  soul calibur 4 is a fighting game for the ps3 and xbox 360. the thing with this game is that the 
 xbox 360 version the secret character is yoda from star wars and the ps3 version the secret character 
 is darth vader. i dont know why they did this. in this game it is standard fighting with swords 
 and aparently light sabers. there is no guns in this game. there is a really big character selection 
 with my favorite yoshimitsu, valdo, and nightmare. this game has online play with both gaming systems. 
 this game has a big level selection and a good story line. in this game there is a option create 
 a character where you can make yourself or make your dream character. one thing i dont like about 
 this game is the lack of levels it only has 5 levels for every character. that is something that 
 angers me because i payed sixty dollars for a game with 5 levels? they should at least put in like 
 ten. this isn't my favorite game. this is a original and could instantly be a classic. thats all 
 i have to say about soul calibur 
::::::

::::::
UserName: More_Dakka
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 23, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is the latest entry in Namco Bandai's long running Soul series of fighting games. 
 Ever since it first started with Soul Edge in 1996, the series has separated itself from similar 
 fighting games by using a weapon-based combat system instead of the standard unequipped style used 
 by other games such as the Mortal Kombat and Tekken series. 
  
  The results have almost always been spectacular, and Soul Calibur 4 does not do the series any 
 injustice. While the game could have benefited from more game play modes, Soul Calibur 4 is still 
 a game that will keep you entertained.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 offers a small selection of modes for both single-player and multiplayer. The arcade 
 and story modes both make a return relatively unchanged from previous installments. In both modes, 
 the player advances through multiple levels of combat with the character of choice. As with previous 
 Soul Calibur games, gamers can unlock extra content by playing and completing various challenges.
 
  
  The new single-player mode included with the game is the Tower of Souls mode. When ascending the 
 tower, you are challenged to make your way through a large number of floors, facing increasingly 
 powerful enemies as you progress. As you go through the tower's floors, performing certain acts 
 at each stage garners some new equipment that can be used in the character creation mode.
  
  When you have completed enough of the upper floors, the game allows you to descend the tower. 
 When descending, you are required to take along two characters of your choice through as many floors 
 as possible before being defeated. A nice competitive touch is that your score will be recorded 
 in the game's online rankings if you are signed into the Playstation Network or Xbox Live when 
 you play this mode.
  
  Soul Calibur 4 also has a basic versus mode for single player, local multiplayer, and online multiplayer, 
 allowing players to play a single match with a few different settings including the number of wins 
 required, the time limit of each round, and the difficulty of the artificial intelligence. Along 
 with standard matches there is also a special versus mode which allows each character to benefit 
 from their unique abilities and equipment.
  
  Arguably the most engrossing mode in Soul Calibur 4 is the character creation mode. The character 
 creation mode allows you to make your own character or customize existing ones. Although the fighting 
 styles available for custom characters are exactly the same as those used by the main characters, 
 custom characters can still stand out thanks to the abilities and unique equipment you can give 
 to them. This all helps make an already impressive character roster into an outstanding collection.
 
  
  One of Soul Calibur 4's main draws is the inclusion of three guest characters from the Star Wars 
 movies. The Soul Calibur series is no stranger to guest characters, but Soul Calibur 4's guests 
 are a hit-or-miss affair.
  
  The Playstation 3 (PS3) version of the game possesses Darth Vader, who is the best guest character 
 included simply because he is the most balanced of the three. The Xbox 360 (360) version of the 
 game gets Yoda, who may seem a bit overpowered since a surprisingly high number of attacks go right 
 over his head and he can never be grabbed. 
  
  Both versions of the game get Darth Vader's secret apprentice, the antagonist who will appear in 
 the upcoming Star Wars: The Force Unleashed video game. Unfortunately, the apprentice is slightly 
 overpowered, especially when you encounter him in the single- player modes.
  
  It is unfortunate that Soul Calibur 4 does not offer new and exciting modes to gamers. The modes 
 that are present are very similar to each other in the single player, and multiplayer only has 
 the two variations of "versus" mode. 
  
  Fortunately, the game still has a high replay value, which is a testament to just how enjoyable 
 the combat is. The variety and depth of the character roster also helps increase the game's replay 
 value, making the lack of variation between modes less of a problem.
  
  The game play in Soul Calibur 4 focuses on the confrontation between two fighters wielding a wide 
 variety of weapons, including swords, staves, giant axes and more. Being successful in the game 
 requires knowing when it is best to block as well as when and how to attack. If a player fails 
 to time his moves right at any point, he can easily leave an opening which can allow the other 
 player to quickly turn the tide of the battle.
  
  The newest additions to the combat from previous entries in the series are the critical finishes 
 and armor destruction. Armor destruction allows players to destroy pieces of their enemy's armor, 
 which then makes that character take more damage for the rest of the game.
  
  The critical finishes are new moves that any character can use to immediately end a round. If a 
 character can deplete his enemy's soul gauge by attacking more often than his enemy does, then 
 he may get a chance to pull off a critical finish. 
  
  In reality however, critical finishes are nearly impossible to pull off during normal play, and 
 they generally aren't worth actively gunning for. They do still have a slight influence on the 
 game by making it so you can not win by just blocking any more.
  
  The nice thing about Soul Calibur 4's game play is that there is a learning curve for memorizing 
 every character's move set, but it is only there if you want to climb it. As a result, Soul Calibur 
 4 is entertaining for both veterans of the series and newcomers.
  
  Graphically, Soul Calibur 4 is excellent. The environments of the arenas are all beautiful to look 
 at. The characters themselves animate fluidly and have a lot of detail as well. 
  
  Audio wise, Soul Calibur 4 benefits from several enjoyable music tracks that fit all of the arenas 
 almost perfectly. The sound of the weapons clashing are incredible. The voice acting also lives 
 up the series standards and is for the most part well done, although a few of the female voices 
 in the game are annoyingly high-pitched.
  
  Ultimately, although Soul Calibur 4 is not a perfect continuation of the series due to the lack 
 of variety between the game's modes, it is still another excellent entry in the series. Veterans 
 of the series will undoubtedly adore the game, and newcomers should also be able to have a great 
 experience at the same time.
  
  Pros:
  The fighting system is still incredibly sharp and addicting.
  Excellent character roster.
  
 Beautiful Graphics.
  
  Cons:
  Disappointing ammount of modes.
  Excluding Vader- the Star Wars characters are a little on the unbalanced side.
  
  Nitpicks:
 
  The AI is occasionally cheap in certain single player modes.
  
  Recommendable for: Soul Calibur 4 will undoubtedly keep series veterans busy until the next installment 
 in the series. The game is also a great choice if you are new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew020889
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  I was a huge fan of Soul Calibur II. It was one of my favorite games on the Gamecube. Then I bought 
 Soul Calibur III and I was a little dissapointed. It was ok, but overall it just didnt live up 
 to Soul Calibur II. Now that I have played through Soul Calibur IV, I can easily say it is the 
 best game in the series. 
  
  First off, I want to say that the graphics are top notch. They are very impressive, and all the 
 characters have new and unique looks that are also impressive. As far as gameplay goes it is also 
 very extraordinary. There are over 30 characters in this game, giving you much variety to play 
 with. The 1 player modes are much improved from Soul Calbur III. While the story mode is short 
 and a little dissapointing it satisfies as a simple mode to play through and get use to te gameplay 
 and characters. The Tower of Lost Souls is definitely the hardest part of this game. To beat it 
 you must ascend 60 floors that have different fighters with certain skills attached to them. Now 
 the first 30 are fairly simple. After that it gets very challenging... i mean VERY challenging. 
 There were times I wanted to throw my controller at the T. V. and I did drop a few choice words 
 when i lost. When you do finally beat the tower you will feel very relieved and realize that it 
 was all worth it. The last 1 player mode is arcade. Which plays like a general arcade game. You 
 fight 8 characters and after beating each one you get points and your final score is totaled at 
 the end. 
  
  Now the best part of the game is easily creating your own character. Not only are there hundreds 
 of items to have your fighter wear, you can customize your fighter by giving them extra skills. 
 These skills vastly improve your character, making the trip up the Tower of lost souls a little 
 easier. You could easily spend hours creating certain characters from some of your other favorite 
 games. The customization is endless.
  
  The 360 version obviously has achievements, but the PS3 version has honors which are basically 
 the exact same thing as achievements. Many of them are challenging, but at the same time addicting. 
 The adds tons of extra hours to the game. With 50 honors it will keep you busy for awhile. 
  
  This game is near perfect, but with the tower of lost souls being almost imsanely hard and 
 frustrating at times, and with the story mode being downgraded from past entries in the series 
 I cant find it in myself to give it anything higher than a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CamiKitten
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 9:09 am PT
Review:  I have been totally blown away by the beauty in this game. The game play was smooth and very functional. 
 More then once when having friends over to play we got the collective "woah" with moves. The colors 
 are bright and popping. The lighting really gives it a real effect.
  
  Even the character creation is fun. Sometimes you'll walk out of there laughing b/c the outfit 
 you have put together for the exact stats you want come out looking like you picked up stuff off 
 the rack with you eyes closed lol.
  
  The battles are challenging but not too excruciatingly painful. Arcade mode is definately hard, 
 but it wouldn't be a fighting game without the difficulty.
  
  Like everyone else, the one tiny tidbit that bothers me about the game is the short story line. 
 But then again maybe not b/c the more I think about it... if there was greater detail more people 
 would still complain that there could of have been even more added. Can't please everyone with 
 every little nuance and detail. 
  
  Well ok so mebbie the blocking grab moves bothers me lol. Sometimes it felt like the computer blocked 
 every grab I tried to sneak on it but it would successfully grab me every time. I coulda just been 
 mad that I lost that round, who knows lol! 
  
  But really, its too beautiful not to love. Go Darth Vader! (Suffer!) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frylock2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 22, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  First off, this game starts out awesome, and the gameplay is smooth, fun, and fluid, and is good 
 for any fans of the genre. The graphics are very nice and it fits the PS3's controls just perfect.
 
  
  The modes? Awesome. Story gets you in the action and its fun watching all the endings. The fights 
 fast and the final boss fight of course the best. Story mode is a must beat and you unlock so much 
 stuff to but (characters, weapons, stuff for making characters, etc.) Which of course is one of 
 the best features it has. 
  The character creation is awesome and the possibilities are endless. I personally had made some... 
 unique characters :) . Tower of Souls is a good challenge to beat and an all around fun mode. And 
 everyone knows about arcade. A perfect FFA mode for any new players or existing players playing 
 the game. Now the amount of characters is awesome. There is well over 30 characters to choose from 
 each with their own story mode (even your created character) and is endless fun. Another side note 
 is earning money to buy new clothes and new weapons and beating story mode to unlock characters, 
 stages, and buy new characters. 
  
  The Darth Vader character is fun to play and really strong and his story mode is cool as hell. 
 Its a perfect mix of future and Soul Calibur setting. 
  All in all, another addition to the series, Soul Calibur has great replay value and makes it easy 
 to suggest to anyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XcursedangelX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  SC: IV has improved, changed, and lost alot of things from its predecessors, Especially on how horribly 
 bad the story mode was, but thats no major flaw, the game is meant for multiplayer. Unlocking everything 
 is no challenge, easily done in a few days, but even with everything completed the game is still 
 very fun to play with buddies, brothers, and anyone online or at you house. SC4 definitely has 
 improved graphics, and my favorite part, the CaS has greatly improved. I loved the customizable 
 parts compared to SC3. Online is just a bit laggy, no major issues, unless i'm playing with someone 
 from japan or really far away. Unfortunately SCIV is missing on some things, as everyone probably 
 remembers teamb attle from SC2, probably one of the best multi player modes to keep you going. 
 But i really liked the tag team in ToLS or Story mode, and hopefully they can make a patch for 
 multi player play. So basically, SC IV is an amazing game, i would highly recommend for SC fans, 
 and fighting fans alike. SC IV is a great game to play with a buddy next to you as well as online 
 play.. except for the spammers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Axelnomad
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2008 4:35 am PT
Review:  I love games that my friends and I can play, but I dislike them if they are a bit on the simple 
 side. The soultion to this problem is Soul Calibur 4, while it maintains most of its key features 
 from previous installments, the game improves on these features to provide a fun, easy, and enjoyable 
 experience.
  
  I have a few groups of friends that I tend to hang out with, some are good at fighting games and 
 some are not. This game can appeal to both sides with its simple and easy gameplay, that can be 
 advanced if you want it to be. And this is the reason I enjoy this game so much is the fact that 
 no matter how much I play I feel like I am getting better and if I am playing against my competitive 
 friends it is enjoyable, and against my friends that are not so good I could play a character that 
 I rarely play to give me something to learn as well as given my friends a chance, which adds a 
 lot of replay value to this game. Online multiplayer for the most part has very little lag which 
 adds even replay value, which is fun for late nights when I cant sleep.
  
  The visuals of this game are just stunning, and while some moves may just appear flashy and pointless, 
 with a little effort they will fit into the gameplay and be of use. The stage designs are downright 
 beautiful, while some may be annoying with so much stuff going on in the background it adds to 
 the gameplay.
  
  The sound in this installment is fairly good, probably not as great as the old games due to the 
 sound track (just a personal opinion) , but in no way is it bad. Also with DLC you can download the 
 sound track from Soul Calibur, which is nice. A option for japanese voice acting adds a nice spin 
 to the game if you are a person who prefers them over the english voicings, but just another matter 
 of opinion.
  
  All and all SC4 is a great game, and I believe anyone who enjoys having a good battle with their 
 friends would find this game to be a good investment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalPurple
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  The long awaited continuation of the Soul Calibur series finally arrives on next-gen consoles, 
 and although it's definately no classic, it improves on the core gameplay & adds a functional multiplayer 
 mode.
  
  In Soul Calibur IV you can play as 26 original characters, including the 2 new additions Hilde 
 and Algol, an additional 5 new 'bonus' characters, which are designed by guest artists, and 2 Star 
 Wars guest characters. All of the characters are quite different from one another, ranging from 
 a dual claw wielding contortionist to a titanic axe wielding golem. The exceptions are the 5 bonus 
 characters, all of whom are simply clones of other characters - which is quite disappointing.
 
  
  For the most part, all of the characters feel rather balanced. No character has exactly a massive 
 advantage over another, but a few characters are better at dealing with anyone, a few characters 
 may have a SLIGHT struggle against certain opponents. 
  
  The exclusive Star Wars characters are extremely different from one another. The PS3 version gets 
 to use Darth Vader while the XBOX 360 will be able to use Yoda. Out of the two characters, Vader 
 definately feels more in place. While Yoda has quite an original moveset, he is terribly unbalanced... 
 Other characters can't hit Yoda with high attacks or throw him due to his small size, these attacks 
 will simply pass over his head leaving you wide open to an attack. Both versions will have access 
 to 'Starkiller', the secret apprentice from the upcoming game Star Wars : The Force Unleashed. 
 Although he may feel slightly overpowered when you are fighting the AI playing as him, in the hands 
 of another player this is no longer evident.
  
  Apart from the Star Wars characters (which may be downloadable content in the near future for the 
 opposite system) , the console's versions don't really feel any different from one another. The 
 visuals are are practically exactly the same. The only other difference is the optional install 
 on the PS3 version, which may improve loading times somewhat, however, this feature will be available 
 on the XBOX 360 version too, shortly.
  
  The game looks amazing, in my opinion it is one of the best looking fighters ever. All the 13 stages 
 look beautiful, the characters are impressively high detailed and the animation is smooth and fluid. 
 
  
  The actual gameplay feels rather unchanged compared to previous installments. The pace isn't as 
 fast as Soul Calibur III, but isn't as slow as Soul Calibur II. It feels just about right in terms 
 of speed. Compared to other fighters Soul Calibur is more of a 'pick up and play' type of game, 
 you don't need to spend hours on end remembering long, 10 hit combos. Rather than spending time 
 learning how to attack, you need to choose when to attack, making this a more skill-based fighter 
 rather than memorizing combos. 
  
  Alot of the changes made to the gameplay are welcome additions, the critical finish system will 
 now no longer reward players who block constantly ('turtling') which makes the game more offensive.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the game hardly has any content with most unlockables just being bought by gold 
 which requires 'farming'. Story mode is now only 5 stages long, although the stages including the 
 AMB (Active Matching Battle) system, which basically lets you or the AI switch between characters 
 during battle. The addition of this feature in single player makes you wonder why it wasn't included 
 in VS modes or Multiplayer, the only option being a 1 vs 1 match.
  
  The main mode, Tower Of Lost Souls, is honestly not very fun. You can choose to ascend the tower, 
 where you will have to play through many stages where the opponents have different abilities, there 
 are 60 floors in total and around the 40th floor thing start to get a little cheap. The AI will 
 guard impact and counter you almost constantly, which sometimes mean you have to resort to cheap 
 tactics to beat the AI. It makes the Tower Of Lost Souls just one extremely drawn out mode. The 
 descend option is a little better, it's basically survival mode in which you have to slaughter 
 foe after foe to see how far you can get down, when you die you will be taken all the way back 
 to the top.
  
  One of the best features of Soul Calibur IV is definately the character creation. Create A Soul 
 mode offers many options, unfortunately the created character movesets have all been removed and 
 you are limited to choosing a moveset from the main cast. This is made up for by the large range 
 of equipment, all offering different abilities for your character. You can then choose from a number 
 of skills such as invisiblity or auto grapple break, which are all suprisingly well implemented, 
 and take your character online via the Special VS mode (where stats are in play) . Or, if you don't 
 care much for stats you can take them on Standard VS mode, where you wont have to worry about the 
 disadvantages of your equipment, and can shape the appearance into anything you want. You can also 
 fully edit the original cast, minus a few characters, so if you want to fully cloth Ivy, you can. 
 Or you can make it so that she is wearing less clothes, which I thought was practically impossible.
 
  
  Overall Soul Calibur IV is a fun, engaging experience and one of the more memorable fighters in 
 recent years. Anyone can pick up and play this and have some great fun with it, but it's pretty 
 stripped down in terms of ingame content and gamemodes, so if you don't have many friends who like 
 playing fighters or don't want to head online, I wouldn't recommend this game for solely the single 
 player content. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidkratos816
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:04 am PT
Review:  This is a great fighting game. The controls are sharp, the graphics are great and the music is 
 phenomenal. The Tower of the Lost Souls is a nice addition and overall the game is nice. There 
 are some complications with the online however. I'm not going to complain about how i lose all 
 the time but the "match is full" thing gets a little annoying after a while. The character creation 
 is possibly the most deepest mode ever as you can pretty much create the character of your dreams
 
  
  Graphics: very very nice. They truly define the next generation of consoles
  
  Gameplay: Very fun gameplay that wont get old even a couple years from now
  
  Sound: Very nice. 
 The main menu music actually gets you pumped up from the start.
  
  Controls: Sharp. They never miss a beat
  
  Multiplayer: Very good and fun. A little defaulted 
 in trying to start a match but hosting one shouldnt be a problem
  
  Overall: Very nice game with a plethora of things to do. Purchase it!
  
  9.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:25 pm PT
Review:  To sum this up in words, Soul Calibur IV has taken the series to an all new high. First thing that 
 you'll notice is the high detailed graphics, this game is pure eye candy, and can stand tall or 
 side by side to any of the current graphic kings of the current generation. The fighting engine 
 runs very smooth, so far I haven't noticed any kind of slow down, though only playing about 5 matches 
 online I wasn't able to notice any type of lag whatsoever which is a plus when it comes to a fighter 
 online.
  
  My only concerns with the game is how easy and fast the Arcade and Single player modes are. You 
 can literally beat both modes within 10 minutes. But don't be too worried about that.. SC IV has 
 implemented the Tower of Lost Souls mode which replaces the Chronicles of the Sword mode. This 
 new mode has your character reach the top of the tower with treasure chests to collected on each 
 level with over 100 floors, here you can customize your charter in order to successfully reach 
 your destination. This is where your skills will definitely be tested.
  
  New character additions also come to mind with stand outs such as Yoda and the Apprentice who will 
 be the lead charcter from the up coming release of Star Wars Unleashed video game. Both charcters 
 play very well and are both equipt with so many interesting moves and manuvers to satisfy a typical 
 SC fan.
  
  I recommend to all gamers who love the SC series to go out and get your copy. Even the ones who 
 are not followers of the series including myself should at least give this one a shot. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 19, 2008 7:30 pm PT
Review:  It has been several years since I actually bought a solid street fighting game as far as the Next-Gen 
 systems are concerned. The last time I recall buying a Street Fighting game for the PS2 or XBox 
 was nearly 4-5 years ago.
  
  Anyway, the review...
  
  Well, let me start by saying this game is a great game for the folks out there that want some butt 
 whopping pleasure. This game has many, MANY good perks. For starters, the games fighting engine 
 is solid and refined from its previous releases. I myself bought the PS3 version because I absolutely 
 love Darth Vader as a playable character. The graphics were sharp and truly designed with the PS3's 
 Blu-Ray advantage in mind. The music (although similar from previous SoulCaliburs) was fitting 
 for each of the realms you had to fight in. The ability to customize SoulCalbur only characters 
 was especially nice.
  
  Perhaps the only thing I miss about this game that I got in a previous SoulCalbur game (hint: SoulCalbur 
 2) was the ability to acquire new weapons by going through story modes. In this SoulCalbur (hint: 
 SoulCalbur 4) , there are story modes and a Tower Mode but I have not yet discovered any items that 
 were said to be in the Tower mode or otherwise. None the less, I still gave this game a positive 
 mark. Scores high on the fun factor in my book. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: im_back
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 1:40 am PT
Review:  Fighting games have always been an interesting genre of gaming. On the one hand they require some 
 great skill to truly master but on the other; regardless of how good you get at the game, you can 
 always lose to someone randomly pressing buttons. 
  
  The soul calibur series has always been known for its balanced, weapons based gameplay, and fans 
 of the series have been patiently waiting the first instalment of the series on the new generation 
 of consoles. Soul Calibur IV (SCIV) promises the same intense, chaotic fun that has become a trademark 
 of the series but also attempts to push the boundary of what games in the genre can really achieve.
 
  
  As with previous games, SCIV offers an in-depth single player experience, the first of these modes 
 being the story mode. The only problem with this mode is that there isn't much of a story involved. 
 You could probably get more story driven entertainment reading the back of a milk carton than playing 
 through this mode, but then again who really needs a reason to beat the crap out of someone?
  
  The real meat of the single player experience lies in the mode aptly called The Tower of Souls. 
 The player has the option of either ascending up the tower, taking on progressively harder opponents 
 as they make their way up the tower's 40 levels, or descend the tower and play through a continuous 
 slog against ridiculously hard opponents. What really makes this mode stand out is the addition 
 of tag team battles. In some cases teams of up to three fighters are used, and the added team management 
 complements the already engrossing gameplay.
  
  Where SCIV really shines is in its online match making. This might not be a new feature to fans 
 of the genre but it's the first time it has been implemented so well. Joining a match is as simple 
 as pressing two buttons and the automatic match making means that you'll never play against someone 
 much more skilled than you. Games like SCIV have always been more fun played against human opponents 
 and addition of online play really adds to the games fun factor.
  
  That being said, be prepared for the usual excuses. When you win, it's because of lag and in most 
 cases you'll feel like you've had a fairer fight offline than on. The exclusion of tag team battles 
 in online and versus mode seems like a poor design decision since having multiple fighters adds 
 a lot to the gameplay.
  
  Visually, SCIV looks amazing. The characters are beautifully detailed, from the carvings in their 
 armour to their animations; everything looks just as stunning as it plays. Soul Calibur has always 
 been known for its fluid controls and the series legacy continues. Combos are slick and powerful 
 and the visual impact of pulling off some of the harder combos is an awesome payoff for the player. 
 Sound wise, the annoying commentator returns to introduce the fighters in his trademark cryptic 
 way, making little to no sense but everything else sounds pretty much as it should. The fighter 
 roster is jam packed with old favourites and some new comers. 
  
  As always the fighters are well balanced with fighter choice rarely making the difference in a 
 battle. The addition of Star Wars legend Darth Vader in the PS3 version is a nice touch as well 
 as the hero of the upcoming Star Wars Unleashed game, the Apprentice. The addition there is a custom 
 character creator that allows users to design their own fighter; everything from the fighter's 
 physical appearance to their weapon choice can be modified.
  
  Unfortunately, SCIV does have some issues. The lack of support for the new Dual Shock 3 controller 
 is a real letdown. It would have made the overall experience a lot more responsive and added to 
 the emersion. The Fighter roster may be nice and big but some of the characters are just clones 
 of old favourites with minor differences here and there. But the biggest issue is that of skill. 
 
  
  Once again, regardless of how much time you invest in understanding the gameplay dynamics and mastering 
 the combos of a given fighter, you are only as good as a button masher. Being humbled by a newcomer, 
 arbly pressing buttons, has become a hallmark of the genre and even though this makes the game 
 more accessible, it's punishes the many that spend countless hours practising. 
  
  Issues aside, Soul Calibur IV is an outstanding game. It pushes the boundaries with regards to 
 visually style and the inclusion of online play is truly a massive step forward for the genre. 
 Put this game in at a party and you'll have a hard time finding someone who doesn't want to play 
 it. If you're a fan of the genre and been waiting for the next best thing, Soul Calibur IV is it, 
 just don't invest too much time into mastering it, lest your little sister kicks your ass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rozenkrautz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  With Street Fighter IV, II Turbo HD Remix and Mortal Kombat vs DC Universe, the fighting game barrage 
 is getting closer by the moment, there are not many fighting games on our current generations systems. And 
 overall there are not many weapon based fighting games either. Thats were Soul Calibur IV comes 
 in. Instead of hooks and uppercuts SCIV aproaches the genre with slashes and jabs. Soul calibur 
 offers four modes of play. A single player mode that includes the story mode, arcade mode, and 
 the new tower of the lost souls mode. The story mode is only a five round arcade mode with cutscenes, 
 the arcade mode is an eight round battle mode were you win money and unlock new characters. And 
 the Tower of the lost souls mode is a tower that you ascend or descend and fight the enemies in 
 each floor win money and get new items for the character creation mode. The second main screen mode 
 is versus mode, were you fight against your friends and the computer in offline matches. The third 
 mode is the online play. A first in the series, the online is simply, a fight against a random 
 player. For people who wonder how serviceable the servers are, dont worry, SCIV is not laggy. And 
 the last main screen mode is the character creation mode, a very complete and exciting mode where 
 you can make your own characters and modify developer made characters. There is a museaum where 
 you can view art and a chain of souls mural that shows how all the characters relate. And an options 
 mode were you tweak the game to your taste. There is also downloadable content like new parts for 
 the character creation and new music.
  So overall, Soul Calibur IV is a great game that anyone would enjoy, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: senjutsu
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are really well done, the music is good, and the gameplay rocks. But I never liked 
 fighting games to tell you the truth. I played some, but this one, with friends, is godly. I don't 
 know if it's just us but my friends and I are around the same "level" when playing, so there is 
 not a guy that always wins (this is not fun for the others, as well as not fun for the winner) . 
 It's great for parties! :D
  
  And with the addition of online play, and that, without any kind of lag, you can have fun playing 
 in versus even without a friend at your house, and this is a must for new games!
  
  PS: Also, I love the ps3 version because there is no load time or almost not. I 1st played on the 
 x360 at a friend's house, but when I bought it, I saw that the ps3 version loaded way faster! :D 
 Have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaisal1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 3:11 pm PT
Review:  For once, I truly agree with the gamespot critics. For the future generation consoles, I consider 
 any game that gets a score of eight to be a standard "Ok" game. This game is better than an "Ok" 
 game, but still does not deserve a nine. The game play is great. The difficulty is raised so it's 
 more fun than the previous games. The story modes are short but still consistent. The adventure 
 mode (Tower of Souls) is challenging. But the best part of the game is its rock solid online play. 
 The online play is addictive, and extremely fun to see differnt styles of play. All fans could 
 finally rejoice, and show off their skills in ranked or unranked matches. The armor system is new 
 and complete. The critical finish is also a great addition to the game. The only downside of the 
 game is the level up system for learning moves. The early players are at a disadvantage compared 
 to people who have played this specific game longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:13 am PT
Review:  "Soul Calibur IV" is an improvement over the PS2 exclusive second sequel. Like the previous games, 
 it has fluid, fast fighting, great characters, awesome moves and killer graphics. It may be more 
 of the same, but it's the most engrossing action game I've played this summer (after "Ninja Gaiden 
 II" and MGS 4) . Oh, yes, and Vader rules.
  
  The PS3 is most recommended because of the Dual Shock controller which works better for 3D fighters. 
 In addition, who wants to play as the ancient little green Yoda when you can kick major arse using 
 the coolest villian of the silver screen, Darth Vader? The Apprentice seems to be a bit of an ass, 
 but he's very quick and feels like a character out of an action game like Dante. You can unlock 
 him after you beat him as Vader on Arcade mode. Good luck with that, he's very cheap and recalls 
 the A. I. from SC III.
  
  Overall, this is the most refined and entertaining in the series. It may be the same SC as usual, 
 but for players who want just that, they'll be in heaven with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 16, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that Soul Calibur is my favorite fighting series to have ever hit this 
 earth. This game is utterly amazing in many ways and has just a few letdowns. Now dont wet yourself 
 but im going to be completely honest and if you dont like my views or opinions then go jump off 
 a cliff cause I keep it real.
  
  As you king of review I will begin with the positives that stood out to me. Graphically this game 
 is top notch and one of the most beautiful games that I have ever seen on ps3. The graphics are 
 followed by even more beautiful gameplay that makes this game more addicting then crack. The game 
 offers many feautures and additions with a wide array and assortment of charcaters that are great. 
 Not to mention in the next few months it has been confirmed that a character pack will be downloadable 
 for 7.99 off of psn network witch includes such character as Yoda, cloud, sephiroth and seven others 
 for a total of ten. Also the biggest one will be Kratos from god of war. Thats right I said kratos. 
 
  
  Now the game is the first to offer online witch is great, however it is greatly flawed in many 
 ways. For on let me start by saying that you can win and defeat opponents but before it saves they 
 quit the match not to be penalized at all witch is utterly ridiculous. You also get robbed like 
 a blind man and dont recieve any win what so ever. The online is very glitchy and more often then 
 not lags however it is great to play with people around the world and show off your talents and 
 custom characters.
  
  This brings me to the next thing. This game customer creation is utterly superb allowing you to 
 virtually do anything that makes for unique combos and strategies witch is always a welcome additon.
 
  
  Now my biggest gripe with this game is the tower of lost souls. You all know what im talking about. 
 This part is ridiculous. As you find that some challenges are easy and a waste of time, you will 
 also find that as you progress, some floors are utterly ridiculous and will have you stuck on for 
 days wanting to go into a fit of rage, grab a sword from the game and go outside and go on a killing 
 spree. The tower of lost souls is flat out cheap and the challenge mode from the previous successors 
 was much more fun and involved. Also to unlock some of the chests is down right a contest of you 
 and your blood pressure trying to co exist as you feel like your having a heart attack from how 
 cheap it can be.
  
  All in all it is a beautiful game that was put together brilliantly. This was its first edition 
 on a next gen console so over all it is very impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bulletwaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 15, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  I never was a Soul Calibur fan, or a Fighting game fan really. The closest thing I ever played 
 to a fighting game was super smash bros. I played Soul Calibur 2 for the Xbox because it had Spawn 
 and I thought he was cool.
  I picked up Soul Calibur 4 because it had Darth Vader and he is my all-time favourite Star Wars 
 character.
  
  When I started playing the game I went right for Story 
  mode as I do with all of my games. When I played it I found that button mashing worked just fine, 
 but then I found out how to do grabs and directional attacks. Now I know how to do combos and feel 
 that I am getting the complete experience that Soul Calibur has to offer.
  
  The Tower of Lost Souls mode is fun as it's the closest thing to a tag team match as you can get. 
 You can choose to ascend the tower and fight up the floors to get to the top. Every three floors 
 you can take a break and your character (s) can heal or you can choose to use different ones. If 
 you descend the tower you can use two characters and you have to defeat waves of enemies You get 
 no breaks and if you die you have to start all over, it's basically a survivor mode.
  
  There is a really cool Character Creation mode where you can customize a regular character or create 
 one from scratch. When making a character you can choose armor, weapons, and skills. You unlock 
 new armor and weapons by completing the story and doing certain thing in the tower of lost souls. 
 They recently released DLC that allows you to give your characters armor from the first Soul Calibur. When 
 you equip armor and weapons they determine your health, attack, and defense. For example you can 
 have a character who has a double length health bar but he can't block very well and his attacks 
 aren't very strong, or a character who has half of a normal health bar but can block most attacks 
 and thier attacks do extra damage.
  
  When playing Versus you can choose between Standard or Special. When playing Standard all characters 
 have equal stats, but when playing Special versus the stats you gave your character come into effect.
 
  
  Soul Calibur finally has an on-line mode so you can enjoy defeating human players without your 
 friends getting mad. On-line works just the same as when you are playing against a friend on the 
 couch. You can choose to play Ranked or Unranked and then you choose either Standard or Special 
 versus. The on-line is sometimes laggy but for the most part it's not.
  
  Overall Soul Calibur 4 is the best fighting game I have ever played and a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darthansum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 11:53 am PT
Review:  [a large-eyed creature gives Luke a rough shove and starts yelling at Luke in an alien language 
 which Luke doesn't understand] 
  Dr. Evazan: [explaining] He doesn't like you. 
  Luke: Sorry. 
  Dr. Evazan: I don't like you either. You just watch yourself. We're wanted men. 
 I have the death sentence on twelve systems. 
  Luke: I'll be careful. 
  Dr. Evazan: You'll be dead! 
  Obi-Wan: [intervening] This little one's not worth the effort. 
 Now come, let me get you something. 
  [Dr. Evazan shoves Luke across the room and pulls out a blaster] 
  Bartender: No blasters! No 
 blasters! 
  [Obi-Wan pulls out and ignites his lightsabler. In a flash, Dr. Evazan and his alien companion, 
 Pomda Baba, are on the floor with a slashed torso and a severed arm respectively] 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Darth Vader: 
 I have you now! 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: You know, 
 I think that R2 unit we bought may have been stolen. 
  Uncle Owen: What makes you think that? 
  Luke: Well, I stumbled across a recording while I was 
 cleaning him. He says that he belongs to someone named Obi-Wan Kenobi. I thought he might have 
 meant old Ben. Do you know what he's talking about? 
  Uncle Owen: Uh-uh. 
  Luke: I wonder if he's related to Ben. 
  Uncle Owen: That wizard is just a crazy old man. Now, 
 tomorrow I want you to take that R2 unit to Anchorhead and have it's memory erased. That'll be 
 the end of it. It belongs to us now. 
  Luke: But what if this Obi-Wan comes looking for him? 
  Uncle Owen: He won't. I don't think he 
 exists anymore. He died about the same time as your father. 
  Luke: He knew my father? 
  Uncle Owen: I told you to forget it. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Darth Vader: He is here. 
  Governor Tarkin: Obi-Wan Kenobi? What makes you think so? 
  Darth Vader: A tremor in the Force. The last time I felt it was in the presence of my old master. 
 
  Governor Tarkin: Surely he must be dead by now. 
  Darth Vader: Don't underestimate the Force. 
  Governor Tarkin: The Jedi are extinct, their fire 
 has gone out of the universe. You, my friend, are all that's left of their religion. 
  [answering a comm signal] 
  Governor Tarkin: Yes? 
  Voice over comm: We have an emergency alert 
 in detention block AA-23. 
  Governor Tarkin: The Princess? Put all sections on alert. 
  Darth Vader: Obi-wan *is* here. The Force is with him. 
  Governor Tarkin: If you're right, he 
 must not be allowed to escape. 
  Darth Vader: Escape is not his plan. I must face him, alone. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  General Tagge: What of the Rebellion? If the Rebels have obtained a complete technical reading 
 of this station, it is possible, however unlikely, they might find a weakness and exploit it. 
 
  Darth Vader: The plans you refer to will soon be back in our hands. 
  Admiral Motti: Any attack made by the Rebels against this station would be a useless gesture, no 
 matter what technical data they have obtained. This station is now the ultimate power in the universe. 
 I suggest we use it. 
  Darth Vader: Don't be too proud of this technological terror you've constructed. The ability to 
 destroy a planet is insignificant next to the power of the Force. 
  Admiral Motti: Don't try to frighten us with your sorcerous ways, Lord Vader. Your sad devotion 
 to that ancient religion has not helped you conjure up the stolen data tapes, or given you clairvoyance 
 enough to find the rebels' hidden fortress... 
  [Vader makes a pinching motion and Motti starts choking] 
  Darth Vader: I find your lack of faith 
 disturbing. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Princess Leia: 
 No! Alderaan is peaceful! We have no weapons, you can't possibly... 
  Governor Tarkin: [impatiently] You would prefer another target, a military target? Then name the 
 system! I grow tired of asking this so it will be the last time: *Where* is the rebel base? 
  Princess Leia: ... Dantooine. They're on Dantooine. 
  Governor Tarkin: There. You see, Lord Vader, 
 she can be reasonable. Continue with the operation; you may fire when ready. 
  Princess Leia: WHAT? 
  Governor Tarkin: You're far too trusting. Dantooine is too remote to make 
 an effective demonstration - but don't worry; we will deal with your rebel friends soon enough. 
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Princess Leia: [in a holo message] General Kenobi: Years ago, you served my father in the Clone 
 Wars; now he begs you to help him in his struggle against the Empire. I regret that I am unable 
 to present my father's request to you in person; but my ship has fallen under attack and I'm afraid 
 my mission to bring you to Alderaan has failed. I've placed information vital to the survival of 
 the rebellion into the memory systems of this R2 unit. My father will know how to retrieve it. 
 You must see this droid safely delivered to him on Alderaan. This is our most desperate hour. Help 
 me, Obi-Wan Kenobi; you're my only hope. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Obi-Wan: I 
 have something here for you. Your father wanted you to have this when you were old enough, but 
 your uncle wouldn't allow it. He feared you might follow old Obi-Wan on some damn fool idealistic 
 crusade like your father did. 
  Luke: What is it? 
  Obi-Wan: Your father's light saber. This is the weapon of a Jedi Knight. Not as clumsy or random 
 as a blaster; an elegant weapon for a more civilized age. For over a thousand generations, the 
 Jedi Knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the Old Republic. Before the dark times... 
 before the Empire. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Obi-Wan: There 
 was nothing you could have done, Luke, had you been there. You'd have been killed too, and the 
 droids would now be in the hands of the Empire. 
  Luke: I will come with you to Alderaan. There's nothing for me here now. I want to learn the ways 
 of the Force and become a Jedi like my father. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Aunt Beru: 
 Where are you going? 
  Luke: Looks like I'm going nowhere... I'm gonna finish cleaning those 'droids. 
  Aunt Beru: [after 
 Luke leaves] Owen, he can't stay here forever, most of his friends have gone. It means so much 
 to him. 
  Uncle Owen: Well, I'll make it up to him next year, I promise. 
  Aunt Beru: Luke's just not a farmer, Owen. He has too much of his father in him. 
  Uncle Owen: 
 That's what I'm afraid of. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Officer Cass: 
 Our scout ships have reached Dantooine. They found the remains of a Rebel base, but they estimate 
 that it has been deserted for some time. They are now conducting an extensive search of the surrounding 
 systems. 
  Governor Tarkin: [referring to Leia] She lied. She *lied* to us. 
  Darth Vader: I told you she would never consciously betray the Rebellion. 
  Governor Tarkin: 
 Terminate her. Immediately. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: [knowing 
 his new acquaintance only as 'Ben'] He claims to be the property of an Obi-Wan Kenobi. Is he a 
 relative of yours? Do you know what he's talking about? 
  Obi-Wan: Obi-Wan Kenobi. Obi-Wan... Now, that's a name I've not heard in a long time. A long time. 
 
  Luke: I think my uncle knows him. He said he was dead. 
  Obi-Wan: Oh, he's not dead... Not yet. 
  Luke: You know him? 
  Obi-Wan: But of course I know 
 him. He's me. 
  [R2 beeps in surprise] 
  Obi-Wan: I haven't gone by the name of Obi-Wan since, oh, before you were born. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Luke: Boy, it's lucky you have these compartments. 
  Han Solo: I use them for smuggling. I never thought I'd be smuggling myself in them. This is ridiculous. 
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: [about Princess Leia] They're gonna *execute* her! Look, a few minutes ago you said you didn't 
 want to just wait here to be captured. Now all you want to do is stay? 
  Han Solo: Marching into the detention area is not what I had in mind. 
  Luke: But they're gonna 
 kill her! 
  Han Solo: Better her than me! 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Imperial Officer: 
 [seeing Luke and Han disguised as Stormtroopers taking Chewbacca to the prison level] Where are 
 you taking this... thing? 
  Luke: Prisoner transfer. Cell block 1138? 
  Imperial Officer: I wasn't notified. I'll have it cleared. 
  [signals another imperial officer 
 to check Chewbacca; Chewbacca breaks out of his binders] 
  Han Solo: Look out he's loose! 
  Luke: He'll tear us all apart! 
  Han Solo: I'll get 'im! 
  [they shoot out the security cameras 
 and kill the officers] 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: [as he 
 is preparing to head to his X-Wing, he sees Han solo with packs of money and getting ready to leave] 
 So. You got your reward and you're just leaving, then? 
  Han Solo: That's right, yeah. Got some old debts I gotta pay off with this stuff. Even if I didn't, 
 you don't think I'd be fool enough to stick around here, do you? Why don't you come with us? You're 
 pretty good in a fight. We could use you. 
  Luke: Come on. Why don't you take a look around. You know what's about to happen, what they're 
 up against. They could use a good pilot like you, you're turning your back on them. 
  Han Solo: What good is a reward if you ain't around to use it? Besides, attacking that battle station 
 is not my idea of courage. It's more like, suicide. 
  Luke: Okay. Take care of yourself Han. I guess that's what you're best at isn't it? 
  Han Solo: 
 [as Luke walks away] Hey, Luke. May the force be with you. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Greedo: [though 
 some believe he is speaking in Rodian, Greedo is actually speaking Huttese; subtitled] Going somewhere, 
 Solo? 
  Han Solo: Yes, Greedo. I was just coming to see your boss. Tell Jabba I have his money, at last. 
 
  Greedo: It's too late. You should have paid him at the first chance you had. Now Jabba's put a 
 price on your head so large, every bounty hunter in the galaxy will be looking for you. I'm lucky 
 I found you first. 
  Han Solo: Yeah, but this time I've got the money. 
  Greedo: If you give it to me, I might forget I found you. 
  Han Solo: I don't have it with me. 
 Tell Jabba... 
  Greedo: Jabba's through with you. He has no use for smugglers who drop their shipments at the first 
 sign of an Imperial cruiser. 
  Han Solo: Even I get boarded sometimes. Do you think I had a choice? 
  Greedo: You can tell that 
 to Jabba. He may only take your ship. 
  Han Solo: Over my dead body! 
  Greedo: [he doesn't notice Han going for his gun] That's the idea... I've been looking forward 
 to this for a long time. 
  Han Solo: Yeah, I'll bet you have. 
  [Han Blows Greedo away] 
  Han Solo: [as Han calmly leaves, he flips the bartender a coin] Sorry about the mess. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  [Han answers the intercom after comandeering an attack station] 
  Han Solo: [sounding official] Uh, everything's under control. Situation normal. 
  Voice: What 
 happened? 
  Han Solo: [getting nervous] Uh, we had a slight weapons malfunction, but uh... everything's perfectly 
 all right now. We're fine. We're all fine here now, thank you. How are you? 
  Voice: We're sending a squad up. 
  Han Solo: Uh, uh... negative, negative. We had a reactor leak 
 here now. Give us a few minutes to lock it down. Large leak, very dangerous. 
  Voice: Who is this? What's your operating number? 
  Han Solo: Uh... 
  [Han shoots the intercom] 
 
  Han Solo: [muttering] Boring conversation, anyway. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Darth Vader: 
 I've been waiting for you, Obi-Wan. We meet again, at last. The circle is now complete. When I 
 left you, I was but the learner; now *I* am the master. 
  Obi-Wan: Only a master of evil, Darth. 
  [lightsabers clash] 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  General Tagge: Until this battle station is fully operational, we are vulnerable. The Rebel Alliance 
 is too well equipped, they're more dangerous than you realize. 
  Admiral Motti: Dangerous to your starfleet, Commander; not to this battle station. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Gold Two: [the Y-wings are running the gauntlet toward the Death Star reactor-port] The guns - 
 they've stopped! 
  Gold Five: [realizes why] Stabilize your rear deflectors... Watch for enemy fighters. 
  Gold 
 Leader: They're coming in! Three marks at 2-10! 
  [Gold Two is slain by Darth Vader and his wingmen; Gold Leader starts to panic] 
  Gold Leader: 
 It's no good, I can't maneuver! 
  Gold Five: Stay on target. 
  Gold Leader: *We're too close!* 
  Gold Five: Stay on target! 
  Gold Leader: [shouts] Loosen 
 up! 
  [he too is picked off by Vader and Company; Gold Five tries to escape but is fatally winged] 
 
  Gold Five: Gold Five to Red leader, lost Tiree, lost Dutch. 
  Red Leader: I copy, Gold Leader. 
  Gold Five: It came from... behind! 
  [crashes] 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  C-3PO: Now don't you forget this! Why I should stick my neck out for you is far beyond my capacity! 
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C-3PO: Just you reconsider playing that message for him! 
  [R2 beeps a question] 
  C-3PO: No, 
 I don't think he likes you at all. 
  [R2 beeps again] 
  C-3PO: No, I don't like you either. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  C-3PO: I would much rather have gone with Master Luke than stay here with you. I don't know what 
 all this trouble is about, but I'm sure it must be your fault. 
  [R2 beeps an angry response] 
  C-3PO: You watch your language! 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  [C-3PO is tangled up in wires after a run-in with tie fighters] 
  C-3PO: Help! I think I'm melting! This is all your fault! 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  [repeated line] 
  C-3PO: [to R2-D2] This is all your fault. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Governor Tarkin: 
 You don't know how hard I found it, signing the order to terminate your life. 
  Princess Leia: I'm surprised that you had the courage to take the responsibility yourself. 
  
 Governor Tarkin: Princess Leia, before your execution, you will join me at a ceremony that will 
 make this battle station operational. No star system will dare oppose the Emperor now. 
  Princess Leia: The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems will slip through 
 your fingers. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  General Dodonna: 
 The battle station is heavily shielded and carries a firepower greater than half the star fleet. 
 It's defenses are designed around a direct, large-scale assault. A small one-man fighter should 
 be able to penetrate the outer defense. 
  Gold Leader: Pardon me for asking, sir, but what good are snub fighters going to be against that? 
 
  General Dodonna: Well, the Empire doesn't consider a small one-man fighter to be any threat, or 
 they'd have a tighter defense. An analysis of the plans provided by Princess Leia has demonstrated 
 a weakness in the battle station. But the approach will not be easy. You are required to maneuver 
 straight down this trench and skim the surface to this point. The target area is only two meters 
 wide. It's a small thermal exhaust port, right below the main port. The shaft leads directly to 
 the reactor system. A precise hit will start a chain reaction which should destroy the station. 
 Only a precise hit will set off a chain reaction. The shaft is ray-shielded, so you'll have to 
 use proton torpedoes. 
  Wedge Antilles (Red 2) : That's impossible! Even for a computer. 
  Luke: It's not impossible. I used to bullseye womp rats in my T-16 back home, they're not much 
 bigger than two meters. 
  General Dodonna: Then man your ships. And may the Force be with you. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  General Willard: You're safe. When we heard about Alderaan, we feared the worst. 
  Princess Leia: We have no time for sorrows, Commander. You must use the information in this R-2 
 unit to help plan the attack- it's our only hope. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Imperial Officer: 
 Where are you taking this... thing? 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Han Solo: Stay 
 sharp. There's two more coming in. They're gonna try and cut us off. 
  Luke: Well why don't you outrun them? I thought you said this thing was fast! 
  Han Solo: Watch 
 your mouth kid, or you're gonna find yourself floating home. We'll be safe enough once we make 
 the jump to hyperspace. Besides, I know a few maneuvers. We'll lose em'! 
  [the ship shudders as an explosion flashes outside the window] 
  Han Solo: Here's where the fun 
 begins! 
  Obi-Wan: How long before you can make the jump to light speed? 
  Han Solo: It'll take a few moments to get the coordinates from the navi-computer. 
  [the ship 
 begins to rock violently as lasers hit it] 
  Luke: Are you kidding? At the rate they're gaining? 
  Han Solo: Traveling through hyperspace 
 ain't like dusting crops, boy! Without precise calculations we could fly right through a star, 
 or bounce too close to a supernova and that'd end your trip real quick, wouldn't it? 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Princess Leia: 
 I don't know who you are or where you've come from, but from now on you'll do as I say, okay? 
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Obi-Wan: That's no moon. It's a space station. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Luke: Listen, I can't get involved. I've got work to do. It's not that I like the Empire; I hate 
 it. But there's nothing I can do about it right now... It's all such a long way from here. 
  Obi-Wan: That's your uncle talking. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Obi-Wan: The Force is what gives a Jedi his power. It's an energy field created by all living 
 things. It surrounds us and penetrates us. It binds the galaxy together. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Han Solo: Well, 
 you can forget your troubles with those Imperial slugs. I told you I'd outrun 'em. 
  [nobody is listening] 
  Han Solo: Don't everyone thank me at once. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Han Solo: Hokey religions and ancient weapons are no match for a good blaster at your side, kid. 
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Governor Tarkin: The Imperial Senate will no longer be of any concern to us. I have just received 
 word that the Emperor has dissolved the council permanently. The last remnants of the Old Republic 
 have been swept away. 
  General Tagge: But that's impossible. How will the Emperor maintain control without the bureaucracy? 
 
  Governor Tarkin: The regional governors now have direct control over their territories. Fear will 
 keep the local systems in line. Fear of this battle station. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: I'm Luke 
 Skywalker. I'm here to rescue you. 
  Princess Leia: You're who? 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C-3PO: We seem 
 to be made to suffer. It's our lot in life. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [repeated line] 
 
  Princess Leia: Help me, Obi-Wan Kenobi; you're my only hope. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Obi-Wan: For 
 over a thousand generations, the Jedi knights were the guardians of peace and justice in the old 
 Republic... before the dark times... before the empire. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Obi-Wan: [to 
 R2D2] Hello there. Come here, my little friend. Don't be afraid. Oh don't worry, he'll be alright. 
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: [to C3PO] Alright, come on. And the red one. Come on. Well, come on Red, let's go. 
  
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: [the red R2 unit blows its top] Uncle Owen! 
  Uncle Owen: [looks up from paying the Jawa] 
 Yeah? 
  Luke: This R2 unit has a bad motivator, look! 
  Uncle Owen: [to Jawa] Hey, what are you trying to push on us? 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  C-3PO: We've stopped. Wake up! Wake up! 
  [R2D2 beeps] 
  C-3PO: We're doomed. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C-3PO: [translating 
 for R2] He says he's found the main control to the power beam that's holding the ship here; he'll 
 try to make the precise location appear on the monitor. 
  [a diagram of the power terminal appears on the screen] 
  C-3PO: The tractor beam is coupled 
 to the main reactor in seven locations. A power loss at one of the terminals will allow the ship 
 to leave. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Princess Leia: 
 Someone has to save our skins. Into the garbage chute, fly boy. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: How did 
 my father die? 
  Obi-Wan: A young Jedi named Darth Vader, who was a pupil of mine until he turned to evil, helped 
 the Empire hunt down and destroy the Jedi knights. He betrayed and murdered your father. Now the 
 Jedi are all but extinct. Vader was seduced by the dark side of the Force. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Obi-Wan: Mos 
 Eisley spaceport: You will never find a more wretched hive of scum and villainy. We must be cautious. 
 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Luke: I don't understand how we got by those troops. I thought we were dead. 
  Obi-Wan: The Force 
 can have a strong influence on the weak-minded. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Han Solo: Han 
 Solo. I'm captain of the Millennium Falcon. Chewie here tells me you're lookin' for passage to 
 the Alderaan system? 
  Obi-Wan: Yes indeed, if it's a fast ship. 
  Han Solo: Fast ship? You've never heard of the Millennium Falcon? 
  Obi-Wan: Should I have? 
 
  Han Solo: It's the ship that made the Kessel Run in less than twelve parsecs. I've outrun Imperial 
 starships. Not the local bulk cruisers mind you, I'm talking about the big Corellian ships now. 
 She's fast enough for you old man. What's the cargo? 
  Obi-Wan: Only passengers. Myself, the boy, two droids... and no questions asked. 
  Han Solo: 
 [chuckles] What is it? Some kind of local trouble? 
  Obi-Wan: Let's just say we'd like to avoid any Imperial entanglements. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Luke: [on first seeing the Millenium Falcon] What a piece of junk! 
  Han Solo: She'll make point five past lightspeed. She may not look like much, but she's got it 
 where it counts, kid. I've made a lot of special modifications myself. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Darth Vader: 
 I find your lack of faith disturbing. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Princess Leia: 
 Governor Tarkin, I should have expected to find you holding Vader's leash. I recognized your foul 
 stench when I was brought on board. 
  Governor Tarkin: Charming to the last. You don't know how hard I found it, signing the order to 
 terminate your life. 
  Princess Leia: I'm surprised that you had the courage to take the responsibility yourself. 
  
 Governor Tarkin: Princess Leia, before your execution, you will join me at a ceremony that will 
 make this battle station operational. No star system will dare oppose the Emperor now. 
  Princess Leia: The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems will slip through 
 your fingers. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C-3PO: Listen 
 to them, they're dying, R2. Curse my metal body. I wasn't fast enough. It's all my fault. My poor 
 master. 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  C-3PO: Where 
 could they be? 
  [R2 beeps at him] 
  C-3PO: Use the comlink? Oh my! I forgot, I turned it off. 
  [over the comlink] 
  C-3PO: Are 
 you there sir? 
  Luke: 3PO? 
  C-3PO: We've had some problems... 
  Luke: [interrupting] Will you shut up and listen to me! Shut down all the garbage smashers on the 
 detention level, will ya? Do you copy? Shut down all the garbage smashers on the detention level! 
 Shut down all the garbage mashers on the detention level! 
  C-3PO: [to R2-D2] No! Shut them *all* down, hurry! 
  [R2 shuts down the compactors] 
  Luke: 
 What? HAHA! Hey, you did it 3PO! 
  [Luke, Leia and Han start laughing hysterically; it sounds like screaming] 
  C-3PO: Listen to 
 them, they're dying R2! Curse my metal body, I wasn't fast enough, it's all my fault! My poor Master. 
 
  Luke: 3PO, we're all right! We're all right! Ha ha! Hey, open the pressure maintenance hatch on 
 unit number... where are we? 3263827! 
  
  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  [referring 
 to Obi Wan] 
  Governor Tarkin: If you're right, he must not be allowed to escape. 
  Darth Vader: Escape is not his plan. I must face him. Alone. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_sith
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:49 am PT
Review:  Defently one of the most fun games i have ever played, i was playing Devil May Cry and GTA, but 
 i have not touched them since i got this game.
  
  So for months i have been reading the hate posts because this game has Star Wars characters and 
 that just destroyes the whole thing. This is definatly not the case, if your not into star wars 
 thats fine, dont go star wars characters and you wont ever see them, however if you are sitting 
 around with some mates having some vs action, you will love it when one of them picks Darth Vader 
 and you fight them on a Star Wars level, it is well worth it alot of fun if not then a laugh.
 
  
  The combos are, a challenge but once you get used to the button combinations it comes pretty natural 
 and after a few days of play you will stop button mashing.
  
  It is a great game for multiplayer, my friends have never played before pick up the controll and 
 win from time to time, this makes for fun multiplayer.
  
  One of the issues i found with the game was "Human Error" it is not so forgiving with this, if 
 you have to click say Square and Triangle at the same time sometimes it would read it as just hitting 
 one button then the other, I overcame this by changing the controlls and binding those two keys 
 to a free button. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: istylee
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 2:20 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is my first Soul Calibur. So i didn't know what to expect from it but i picked 
 it up and gave it a go anyway. 
  
  The graphics are pretty amazing for a fighting game, the character designs are great though the 
 voice acting is pretty horrible same goes for that damn voice over that says "Soul Calibur IV!!!" 
 
  Reminds me of those gay ads on television.
  
  Anyway character creation is very cool, a lot of depth in the customization. I haven't experimented 
 that much with it but i seen some really cool characters on gametrailers and whatnot. 
  The addition of Darth Vador is very coool, as i am a fan of the Star Wars series this was very 
 nice touch to the PS3 version.
  
  The fighting is quiet entertaining as you can pretty much button mash your way to completing each 
 character but you still need some amount of skill to beat the hard opponents like the Apprentice 
 which is crazy hard. I gave up. Other then that It's a game anyone can pick up and just play with 
 a mate or two.
  
  I can't say much about the story as this is my first Soul Calibur but like most fighting games 
 the stories are usually ignored
  
  Overall a great fighter anyone can pick up and enjoy with a few friends.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  Fighting is one of my favorite genres. Ive been this series since Soul Blade for the PS1.
  
  I really dont have that much to say since it feels like the same game ive played for years 
 now. Which really isnt a bad thing since the system really isnt broken i just noticed a few tweaks 
 here and there in the gameplay.
  
  The graphics are gorgeous. The characters and the scenery was done very well.
  
  Online is 
 pretty cool too. My only issue with it though i wish the battle rooms can hold more people like 
 with Tekken Online and everyone plays the winner.
  
  Like i said previously there really isnt that much to me said if you arent new to series. You will 
 feel right back at home like how i did. So if your looking for a fighting game to hold you over 
 awhile until Tekken or Street Fighter comes out i suggest you pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostnut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 13, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur has a lot to offer. You can fight in arcade mode, story mode, versus or online. Every mode 
 has some unlockables to discover. Mostly are equipment used to create your character or modify heroes 
 you can choose. Creating your own characters is very fun and you have a lot of items to choose from. And 
 we're lucky to have Darth Vader on the PS3 and not Yoda. Most stories are very good, the only sad 
 thing is that the endings are mostly very bad. You can buy many weapons for each characters, which 
 will give either def, str or hp, and you get to give some skills too. Overall, I think this game is 
 very good but I'm pretty sure I'm gonna get sick of it in no time. I'm no fighting game fan (maybe 
 that's why) . But if you like this kind of game go for it. It has plenty to offer and it's worth buying 
 so don't waste money renting it. Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOJO_AC
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:49 pm PT
Review:  After 3 years since the latest installment, and Following other franchises like Devil May Cry, 
 Metal Gear and Grand Theft Auto, Soul Calibur gets a sequel with the number 4 on it.
  Like many other fighting games, Soul Calibur goes for minor improvements through each sequel while 
 keeping the same familiar gameplay instead of trying revolutionary changes. This time it gets the 
 next generation graphical update and the much anticipated online mode, so all you fans out there 
 will finally be able to put your skills to the test against other players around the world. So 
 far, the only modes available online are standard and special modes, but hopefully they'll add 
 more features in later updates.
  Following the example of SC2, you'll get quite a few bonus and guest character, being The Apprentice 
 and Darth Vader for the PS3 version. Its fun to use him them for a while, but I doubt anyone will 
 be using these 2 for any serious competition. Besides the Star Wars character, you'll also get 
 a few guest characters drawn by many famous manga artist, but while they do have an interesting 
 design, all their move set are based on the regular characters so they don't offer any real variety.
 
  Another returning feature is the Character Creation mode, this time giving armor specific strengths 
 and weaknesses. So Armor, weapons, and accessories may increase or decrease health, attack or defense, 
 and now you can even equip special traits that affect the character's play style, traits like; 
 automatically triggering guard impacts, the ability to cause damage against a blocking opponent, 
 or even a stat increase based on parameters such as an opponent's alignment or gender, you can 
 only use these traits in Special Vs matches however.
  Unfortunately, while online mode is the highlight of this sequel, all offline modes leave much 
 to be desire: You only get Story mode, which is nowhere near as deep as the story modes from past 
 SC games; arcade mode, which is a bit more interesting since your final score gets uploaded online 
 and you can compare your score against other users; And Tower of Lost Souls, which just feels like 
 a fancy name for survival mode. The biggest disappointment is that they remove Chronicles/Tales 
 of the Sword mode from previous games, a shame really, since this mode was one of the best features 
 of the series. Also, bonus/ guest character aren't that great either
  So the bottom line: offline multiplayer is still a blast, and if you give the online modes a chance 
 they can also get quite addictive, especially if you're trying to climb up the ranks. But if you're 
 playing it solely for the 1 player modes, then you'll get bored with this one pretty fast
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: FayeintheSky
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 is a great fighting game with impressive graphic and gameplay. Unfortunately, the 
 story mode is a serious let down and disappointment. The Apprentice in the Arcade mode is also 
 overpowered to the point the game makes the players more frustrated than challenged. All in all, 
 this fighting game could have been one of the very best, if only it has an engaging story with 
 more depth and plot. That would make all the characters even more likable and enjoyable to play!
 
  
  The multiplayer is definitely a great addon! The gameplay is smooth (when all network is working 
 properly) , and the Standard and Special versus modes feel just right. However, perhaps even more 
 varied versus modes with different objectives might enhance the online experience more. The interface 
 might be a bit dull, but everything just feel right, neither too much nor too little.
  
  In conclusion, this is one of the best fighting games for PS3 up to date, and if you're a big fan 
 of this genre, it's a must buy. However, if you're just looking for a great PS3 game with no specific 
 genre in mind , while this game does offer a lot, and it can keep you entertained for months to 
 come, you might still want to really consider other games first before going with Soul Calibur 
 4! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SethSOMT
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 13, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The Soulcalibur franchise has seen its downs and ups (including extreme ups) during its duration 
 as a fighting game. The original game, for the Dreamcast, can only be described as great in everyway. 
 Following the release of Soulcalibur 2 on Sony's Plastation 2, Microsoft's Xbox, and Nintendo's 
 Gamecube, which featured exclusive characters (Haihachi, Spawn, and Link, respectively) , the franchise 
 looked as great as any on the market. The most recent game (excluding the fourth) was not received 
 as well as other games in the series, but still was widely considered a "good", fighting game (did 
 not have any exclusives, but did have new characters) .
  
  And now we have Soulcalibur 4. Months before the release of this game, it was heavily hyped with 
 its inclusion of Star Wars characters,
  
  I, for one, was extremely excited for the release of this game. I preordered the game many weeks 
 before its release, fueled by the vision of its new characters and online play.
  
  More than anything else, I WANTED this game to be absolutely perfect in everyway. But, sadly, my 
 wish was not granted. Don't get me wrong, SC4 defiantly has great features to it, but also has 
 some major flaws.
  
  PROS:
  -The visuals in the game are amazing. Each field has a distinct look to it, and looks better than 
 ever (by far) . Each character has been detailed to a complete extent to make them look more notable 
 than ever before. The greatest part of the visuals is the textures. Particularly with customizing 
 an existing/ creating a new character, the details of ever little part of the character can be 
 modified and tweaked.
  
  -Online play! The online play in SC4 is extremely solid. While playing, I experienced little to 
 no lag during matches. Also, being able to choose from standard versus and special versus is a 
 nice addition. It is entertaining to see how the modifiers on your weapons and armor pit against 
 your opponents.
  
  -Character customization. Already mentioned above, the character customization allows you to work 
 with a character down to the bare-bone of a character. There is also a wide selection of items 
 than can be used to equip your character (al depending on what attack style you choose) .
  
  - Tower of Lost Souls! The Tower of Souls is bound to give any player a good challenge, and has 
 satisfing rewards to go along with each floor. These will keep you entertained even after completing 
 all of the floors (60) in the Tower.
  
  - A moderately good amount of characters. There are plenty of characters that can be used in SC4 
 (excluding the numerous Custom Characters) . You will see all returning classics, like Nightmare, 
 Cassandra, and Mitsurugi, but also find some new one. There are 5 "bonus" characters that can be 
 unlocked from defeating them in the 3rd Stage of story mode. 
  
  -Critical Finishers. Although hard to hit, they look really cool if successful.
  
  - STAR WARS! 
 Nuff' said.
  
  
  CONS:
  
  - There are not that many unlockables. Aside from character creation, money in the game is not 
 really of any usage. There is some inclusion in online play, but not enough to make up for how 
 much money you earn from playing the game for 2 hours straight. SC3 had tons of them, but the same 
 can't be said for the fourth installment.
  
  - Story mode is awful. Aside from the fact that it is only 5 stages long (which is a bad thing) , 
 all movie sequences (except for the final one for each character) are completely generic. COME 
 ON!!! At least put a little effort into the single player game play!
  
  - The ranking and leveling-up system with online play is dull and undeserving. While playing online, 
 a player earns experience towards leveling-up. This system is cool to "look-at", but beyond that, 
 it is really nothing. There is no reward to it and it virtually has no point.
  
  - The X360 received online rewards, but PS3 was left in the dust. Points for a gamerscore can be 
 earned from playing online on the X360, but PSN Trophies were completely ignored.
  
  - Occasionally a slow frame rate can lead to an unexpected loss.
  
  - In the end, this game 
 is nothing new in terms of game play. You are playing the same thing as any other fighting game 
 with virtually no originality aside from critical finishers. 
  
  Consensus:
  
  None the less Soulcalibur 4 is a really fun game. Although it is brought down by some of its features, 
 it is still a game that can be enjoyed. Unless an intense fan of the franchise, SC4 is a rent-over-buy 
 game, but a definite-rent for that matter.
  
  
  I am also a little disappointed that there has not been any good DLC yet but that could change 
 soon enough.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpcc86
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  Alright, so i'm willing to say that maybe, just maybe, SC4 is the best game in the SC series, yet 
 it's worth mentioning that the game itself doesn't feel much different from it's predecessors. 
 It looks better, that true, and it has more "gaming options", true. A bit more complete... maybe. 
 But the gameplay feels the same as the previous versions, that annoyed me a big time. 
  
  Better Graphics. Graphic evolution is expected and perhaps the most obvious thing a game of this 
 kind would have, jumping to the "new gen" consoles helped the saga and we all love to see this 
 flashy characters with their cool weapons and quick moves with the best possible flashy graphics. 
 I have to say this game looks good, graphically speaking. Good first impressions are always a plus. 
 
  
  Familiar Gameplay. To keep it shot, I just feel that the Gameplay is almost the same as the previous 
 version, which is a bad thing in my opinion, since I get the annoying feeling that I have played 
 the game before. Despite that the Gameplay is docile, easy to get used to. That, however, might 
 be seen as a bad thing because many of the characters have a similar gameplay which cuts the "variety" 
 and you just need to get used to one and you will automatically know how to play other 4. Styles 
 are always a good way to make characters different, but the lack of "diversification" in terms 
 of the use of the controller is a downfall. Like I said before, learn one and you will learn other 
 4-5 that are controlled similarly. However, there are some that are completely different. It's 
 worth to take your time and test every style, just to check on this and find the one you like the 
 most. 
  
  Appealing Characters. Despite the lack of a good background, since most characters DON'T have one, 
 the roster is big enough so that you will definitely find at least 1 o 2 characters that you will 
 like a lot. They are very different in terms of appearance, movepool and personality . Even if 
 you don't find one you like, you can always create you own character and make it the way you want 
 it to be. The option of creating a character is very complete, it could have been more complete 
 if you could create you own move-set instead of relying on existing styles, but it's still worth 
 your while. 
  
  Story is weak. Nothing new here, SC is not characterized by a very well elaborated story, and most 
 players probably wouldn't mind about it, they just like flashy movements and cool looking characters, 
 in which case, if you are one of them, these game is awesome. But for some of us who do care about 
 the background of the characters, their stories, motives and personality, I personally don't see 
 a great job here, In fact, the game lacks a good story, they just came up with a cheap excuse to 
 continue the saga and keep bringing old characters that now have no real participation in the plot. 
 And, also worth mentioning, just as Gamespot's own review states, Story Mode is really lame, not 
 just disappointing but it doesn't really tell you anything about anything in the story, and the 
 endings are... just not what one would have expected. 
  
  Multiplayer is great. I would have liked the option of a cooperative multiplayer, that would have 
 been awesome, maybe next time. Online Mutiplayer is very "easy to access", it might seem like a 
 pointless observation but there are some games that have a very annoying multiplayer room. SC's 
 is very entertaining. Try it to test your skill against others, it might be more challenging that 
 the single player modes in the game.
  
  Overall I have to say this game is really good. It does have some flaws and some thing could have 
 been "better", however I don't personally feel it improved that much from the previous version 
 in terms of gameplay and that's a downfall because a lot of the time I get the feeling that I have 
 played this one before. Feels the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kryu88
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur is a series that has never really let it's fans down. With its deep, yet easy to get 
 into, battle system, lively cast of characters, and gorgeous visuals, Soul Calibur has pretty much 
 always been near the top of the fighting genres list of high quality games. This time around is 
 no different, in a way. Fans of the series will feel right at home, as the battle system hasn't 
 been changed too drastically, but some aspects of the game seemed a bit, well.... lacking. Causing 
 it to fall short of it's predecessors, but it is still a fun game to play for those that have maybe 
 missed out on the others in the series.
  
  The story this time around.... wait, has the story really changed from the past entries? No, no 
 it hasn't. All the warriors in the world (well, at least ones deemed worthy of being a main character) 
 are searching for Soul Edge and Soul Calibur, so they can gain infinite power... and all that jazz. 
 The story in 4 really seemed to be lacking compared to narratives put together in the previous 
 games. There is this big... Lu Bu reject from Dynasty Warriors, who has been frozen in time for 
 thousands of years and he reawakens and stuff..... yeah, not really that great of a "villain". 
 
  
  The story mode itself is surprisingly short and over before it even feels like it starts. Each 
 story starts out with a horrendously long wall of text that only true Soul Calibur junkies would 
 bother to read. But wait, it gets better, after going through a grand total of 5 battles, you fight 
 the Lu Bu wannabe and you get a short pre-rendered cut scene and then a short sentence pertaining 
 to what may or may not happen after the cut scene is over. Then the credits roll.... that is seriously 
 it for all of the story modes. It really feels like Namco just rushed this "story mode" into the 
 game to say it has one. The single player story modes have gone downhill since SC2 and it's awesome 
 Weapon Master mode. This just felt like a shortened Arcade game with no real reward in the end, 
 but some gold and mayby and unlock or two.
  
  Which leads to my next point, in that the unlocks are really easy to get this time around, as far 
 as the characters go anyway. You can go through a couple "stories" and get enough gold to purchase 
 all the remaining Soul Calibur cast. Which is nice to prevent grinding and meeting certain objectives 
 to unlock a character you want to desperately play as, but it also takes out some of the fun in 
 unlocking new characters to use. Unlocking items, weapons, and such are still the same as in 3. 
 As in they feel as though they are random and just come at any given time. Unlocking new items 
 and such for your created characters is nice though and there are plenty of items to be had.
  
  Now for one of the big hooplas surrounding SCIV, the guest characters introduced in this version. 
 The Star Wars characters of Darth Vader, Yoda, and The Apprentice (from Force Unleashed) don't 
 really feel like they belong in the Soul Calibur universe of swords, spears, and other more "primitive" 
 weaponry, compared to what the Jedi/Sith wield anyway. They are satisfying to use and it is fun 
 to see Darth Vader chock or slam the crap out of Maxi with his Force powers. But really..... these 
 characters just feel out of place and put in there for the sake of having them. To try and get 
 people to forget the sub-par story mode or something. The other guest characters made by famous 
 anime artists in Japan feel a bit more at home, but really don't add too much to the already impressive 
 Soul Calibur roster.
  
  The core gameplay hasn't really changed too much from Soul Calibur 3 or 2. There are all the crazy 
 moves you can pull off with Voldo or Yoshimitsu. There are all the critical block, grappling, and 
 counterattack moves. Basically, if you've played a Soul Calibur game before, you'll know what to 
 do when you pick up your controller. However, there are a few changes that may or may not make 
 old fans feel kinda awkward. The Critical Finishes are one hit kills that can only occur when an 
 opponent is in a state of "Soul Crush". This doesn't happen too often, so it isn't too big of a 
 deal, but it doesn't really seem to fit with how a majority of the Soul Calibur battles play out. 
 You can also break your opponents armor now, which in turn has effects depending on their armor. 
 It is nice and rewarding to see your sword actually cause more physical damage to your opponents. 
 Armor breaking, again, isn't too big of a change, but it is a nice one. Though I don't really see 
 how Ivy can lose anymore clothing... Then, for the Jedi's and Sith, there is a Force Gauge, which 
 goes down everytime a Jedi or Sith uses a Force power. If it goes all the way down, they will be 
 stunned temporarily and will be open to attack.
  
  Creating your own fighter was one of the big aspects of Soul Calibur 3 and it returns in Soul Calibur 
 4, but more in depth. The main difference in 4, is that each piece of armor has statistics to it 
 that adds to either your attack, defense, or soul power. So it kinda feels like your in an MMO 
 outfitting your avatar to deal out the best amount of damage. Though, the stats on the armor and 
 their "cool" factor don't match up sometimes.... You can also mess with the cast of Soul Calibur 
 and mess with their armor and stats. So in reality, you can make your very own Mitsurugi or Talim! 
 
  
  Online is pretty much like playing with somebody that is right next you.... just they're not. The 
 rankings and statistics from your games are nice to see and seeing how you compare with other players 
 from around the world adds a nice bit of competative edge. Though, it felt like the single player 
 modes were kinda cut short to make way for the multiplayer. There is Tower of Souls which also 
 puts your stats and rank up so everybody can see it, but that mode just doesn't really replace 
 a good single player Soul Calibur experience.
  
  The graphics are pretty...... like almost every next gen game is now. The character models are nicely 
 rendered (no pun intended there for the breast physics) and the stages are also a sight to behold. 
 Though there are still those instances where it looks like your safe.... then you fall off the edge 
 of a stage almost magically....
  
  Overall, Soul Calibur 4 feels like a step backward for the series. Online is nice, but everything 
 else in the game just seems to not be as well put together as in previous entries. The fighting 
 is still solid, but if you're looking to just play this game by yourself, then get either Soul 
 Calibur 2 or 3. They have a much more satisfying single player experience. But, you'll probably 
 want the multiplayer, so Soul Calibur 4 is most likely a sure buy for any fan of the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 8:42 am PT
Review:  Oh yes it is exactly as my title stated, I have never nor do I expect to in the near future played 
 a fighting game or hell ANY console game this good before. And this is coming from someone who's 
 on his 10th play through of devil may cry 4.
  
  A bit much you say? Well ok let me rephrase. As a 'game' Soul Calibur 4 is phenomenal but if you're 
 looking for a story, logic, or brown tinted black and white garbage clone trash realism then this 
 game isn't for you.
  
  It's probably not an overstatement for me to say this game is to the fighting genre what world 
 of warcraft is to the mmo genre. It is insanely close to 100% AAA crazy perfection and everything 
 that follows it will be copying or ripping it off in some fashion guaranteed.
  
  What does that mean for anyone thinking about buying it? Nothing if I don't list good reasons for 
 the above statements so here we go. 
  
  You know how when you play a game and your not sure why but when you look at it, listen to it, 
 interact with it, when it all just sorta 'clicks' together like magic you get that funny feeling 
 like you just don't want to stop playing ever. That's exactly what happened to me with Soul Calibur 
 4.
  
  The animation, the sound (well accept some of the voice acting) , the color palette, the character 
 designs, the art style, the controls, heck even the sword like menu buttons, its all just so well 
 done. I don't know how namco did it but they truly have some of the industries best working for 
 them. 
  
  Ok so let's talk about modeling. Polygons, textures, bump maps, all that stuff that makes up a 
 games world. Well let me just state that the modeling in this game is truly breathe taking. If 
 you find yourself staring at a character in the custom character editor don't worry, I am positive 
 lots of people will be too. 
  
  People go on and on about graphics in games all the time but in a fighting game they are very important, 
 if your characters look bad then that's like 60% of your game is a failure so it's pretty important. 
 
  
  On top of looking dead sexy all the characters move so fluidly and wonderfully, I don't know if 
 they motion captured or just whipped there animators with omni-lashes (simpsons reference) until 
 they looked awesome but wow. Keeping in mind this is yet another aspect of fighting titles you 
 might shrug at but again it's essential. This genre is after all extremely simple when you think 
 about it. You push buttons and one of the health bars on screen goes down. Which ever goes down 
 first loses. 
  
  So that's looks and moves, sound doesn't really need covering, some characters are well acted, 
 some are so irritating you'll wish you were born deaf. The music isn't bad but I can understand 
 people wanting to turn it off as it can get repetitive. Hits are hard and lowd and I never get 
 sick of that armor breaking sound, it usually means boobies are now exposed. hehe
  
  Story? what? No there's no story, by the time I got to character five in story mode I was already 
 skipping the cut scenes. Lets be honest here, Soul Caliburs stories have never made any sense and 
 at best you could compare them to those of say a junior high school fanboy/girl. So yeah skip away 
 people, you'll be glad you did when you get to 's version of the exact same cinema.
  Though each regular character has there own ending maybe two or three are actually entertaining, 
 the others yeah don't bother.
  
  The game plays as wonderfully as ever and is even more accessible to new comers. The practice mode 
 allows you to learn easily while fighting on low difficulty in story mode will teach you what to 
 do and when to do it rather well. Trial and error my friends.
  Trust me when I say new peeps shouldn't play on hard right off, it can get pretty crazy. Being 
 good at fighters as most gamers know involves knowing when to attack, when to guard, when to block 
 and when to chain a combo. Soul Calibur is really responsive, I don't know why not all fighting 
 games do this as well as sc but when you hit - ,A, B-K, G -AA for example it actually does exactly 
 what you want it to. And if your like me and have difficulty remembering combos, probably because 
 you like playing alot of different characters don't worry as a basic knowledge of attacks is all 
 you need to win generally speaking. The combo-memory thing is designed more for tournament players 
 and hardcore competitive people. Even so the reason so many different skilled people can play sc 
 and still kick ass is because a button masher can pretty much have an equal chance of beating a 
 combo obsessed player. 
  
  Now as far as changes go, not much has actually changed in sc4 gameplay wise. And that's mostly 
 because like tekken and virtual fighter the original mechanics didn't need changing and with each 
 version they've only become more refined and better.
  The only real change is the little colored circle in each characters corner, it starts off blue 
 and the more you block the closer to red it gets, when fully red and glowing your opponent can 
 do a critical finish which is basically an 'I-WIN' insta kill move that will only ever occur if 
 your opponent is blocking and only blocking, which is never. I've yet to see it myself. 
  
  Bottom line; anyone can play soul calibur 4 and have a blast. Vets and newbs alike.
  
  It probably 
 doesn't mean much to some people but I would hang myself if I didn't go over this next thing. The 
 custom character creator; oh my god. It is the single most addictive feature I've played with in 
 any game ever. This feature is doing for this game what the sims, littlebigplanet and spore are 
 doing for there entirety of gameplay. Basically giving you the player countless options and saying; 
 'here's a million things you can do and make for yourself, have fun'.
  Ok so a million is an exaggeration when you have around 50 custom character slots but keep in mind 
 every character has around 9 optional pieces of gear. Head, shoulders, chest, legs etc. Basically 
 its rpg gear slots for a fighting game. Each slot can have an item placed in it and subsequently 
 displayed visually on your character and then if you chose have its color changed. Every item has 
 stats that will increase the number of that stat available to your character. You can then add 
 a max of 4 abilities to your characters weapon/fighting style (which is a clone of any of the 25 
 or so regulars styles) that will for example increase how hard you hit or give you a chance to 
 regen health.
  
  World of Warcraft players will know what I mean when I say they're like enchants or ability procs. 
 They either give a consistent stat boost, a unique ability or a 'chance on hit' effect.
  
  Now add to all this visual whoring a sequence of sliders, for muscularity, physicality (body size 
 or in the case of females boob size) , face type, hair style and color, skin color (can be any color) 
 and the possibilities just go on and on. What makes this so addictive? well by playing the various 
 game modes with different characters you unlock more items and options for the custom mode and 
 before you know it just like me and everyone else your playing 6 hours a day not just because the 
 game is wicked fun but because every fight you participate in there's a chance it leads to getting 
 more cool stuff for your own personal creations.
  
  Using this mode you can pretty much create a character that looks almost identical if not at least 
 very close to, just about any character that has ever existed in anything, I've seen people create 
 characters from other games, from movies, from comics, you name it someone's probably making it. 
 Now would be a good time for me to remind you that the game is visually stunning so no matter what 
 you make, guaranteed its going to look as cool/silly/scary/bad ass as you originally intended.
 
  
  I'm an artist myself and for me to be able to create my own characters in almost perfect 3d is 
 pretty satisfying indeed.
  
  Oh and don't worry about which version you get, vadar and yoda both suck so preference pretty much 
 comes down to which system you own if not both and which controller you prefer. I like the duelshock/sixaxis 
 so ps3 for me. 
  
  Online is pretty good I hear, with rare lag and generally good performance. I've yet to try it 
 out myself. 
  
  So what are you waiting for? Go buy sc4 already. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedray
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 11, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Soul calibur is a fun and addicting game when you're playing the arcade of vs modes. The character 
 creation is a lot of fun and it's cool to create your own characters. However there are 3 things 
 wrong with the game. First, the apprentice is extremely overpowered when facing him in arcade. 
 He's retarded fast and repeatedly abuses his force powers. Second, the tower of souls is way ,way 
 too hard. It's not so bad at first until you hit about level forty. Every character you fight has 
 the ability to automatically counter you every time you attack them which also causes you to lose 
 health. And throwing won't work because they always get out of it. I had a much less frustrating 
 time playing ninja gaiden then I did playing tower of souls. Sadly this is only one of two ways 
 to unlock items for customizing. The second is getting honors which at least five honors involves 
 online play which brings me to my third problem. Unless it's only my internet that's screwed up, 
 the game lags severely. There is always a second or two delay between every move I make which basically 
 makes winning impossible since for some reason my opponent never seems to lag and moves at normal 
 speed. Even characters with great speed like the apprentice are reduced to having the speed of 
 astoroth. That really dissapointed me because I was looking foward to playing online. I hope everyone 
 else's internet experience is better than mine. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tiestotaku
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 11, 2008 9:27 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV- the latest in the series has plenty to offer for long running fans and new players 
 alike.
  
  Graphics: The game's detailed and customizable character models and equipment are vibrant and pleasing. 
 Armor shatters off in a crash of splendor and clothing tears as battles carry on. The stage environments 
 are gorgeous; often with extra, sometimes humorous details that aren't distracting, but worth noticing 
 in between action. 720p looks very nice on capable screens.
  
  Game-play: Tried and true Soul Calibur formula- veterans will instantly recognize the rhythm of 
 the battle with little to no adjustment necessary. Newcomers will find the flashy moves appealing 
 until they can get more in depth with the mechanics of counterattacks, grabs, repels, guard breaks 
 and so on. Players of the older games will be more comfortable, as the pace of the battle has been 
 turned down half a notch from SCIII. 
  
  What's New: Un-lockable, breakable, customizable equipment pieces have attributes affecting character 
 stats (Attack, Defense, HP) as well as skill capacity points. Generally, equipment strong in primary 
 stats will allow only a few skill capacity and vice versa. The new skills are interesting and can 
 add some spice to the to the action. Customize your character and pit him against a friends creation- 
 of course this is completely optional. Standard mode is still around, where breaking equipment 
 pieces is merely aesthetic. For experienced fighters, the new instant kill Critical Finishes are 
 hardly seen in standard modes. The fatal attacks are more or less a humiliating reminder that you 
 must attack in order to win. In special mode or with handicaps they can add a "Sudden Death"-esque 
 attribute to face-offs. 
  
  Sound: Voice acting is neither magnificent nor aggravating; much better than in previous games. 
 Japanese audio is available. Music is generally unexceptional fanfare neither distracting nor motivating. 
 
  
  Multiplay: Offline VS is the same as ever. Online play, granted both fighters have decent connections, 
 is lag free and fun. PSN battles yield the greatest combat experience, as you'll encounter players 
 that have experimented with and been defeated by the trickiest of character moves and follow-ups. 
 Your wits and ability to adapt to new fighters and styles will test both your patience and determination, 
 especially after particularly gruesome defeats. Meeting a rival and besting him by countering his 
 or her favorite strategies is very satisfying.
  
  Overall, the game is a great fighter, likely the best in average opinion. Notice the lack of "Story:"- 
 there is none (or there might as well be none) as Darth Vader and the Apprentice's parallel universe 
 background explanations are silly and unnecessary. 
  
  This is an action game, for testing reflexes and technique. Is there a great and epic story behind 
 Street Fighter? Tekken? KoF? If you really care for a story in your fighting games you may wince 
 a bit here, but the action and fun of the playability is top-notch, despite the lack of satisfying 
 plot detail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyingmanatee
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV
  
  This game should have and could have been the best fighting game to date, but it falls short and 
 not just in a few ways, but many. I have been a Soul Calibur fan since the first game and they 
 kept getting better, until IV. This game should not have been released to the general public but 
 shipped to all the hardcore gaming nuts that have 40+ hours a week to devote to a single game. 
 I just like playing Soul Calibur, not making Soul Calibur my profession and unfortunately that's 
 what you have to do if you want to unlock everything or play online at all. The only thing that 
 kept me from breaking the disc into tiny pieces and then setting them on fire was the character 
 creation, the incredible graphics, and familiar characters; unfortunately, thats all SC IV has 
 to offer. The fighting is virtually the same as the other SC games with more characters and a few 
 new moves.
  
  Graphics: 10
  
  Lighting - 10 - the metallic items and cloth items finally reflect differently and very realistically
 
  
  Textures - 10 - the textures are great for the same reason as the lighting; everything is easily 
 discernable as rough or smooth
  
  Animations - 10 - the animations are the best so far (Just watch the girls bounce)
  
  Sound: 
 8
  The weapons actually make different sounds and the quality of sound is good. Also, depending on 
 the gear that you use your character will make different sounds moving around. The music isn't 
 anything great, certainly not worth buying off of the Playstation network 
  
  Gameplay: 6
  
  The Good
  
  1. Character creation is easy to use and there are infinite 
 colors to choose from.
  
  2. The fighting looks great and is similar to past games.
  
  3. There is a good amount of items for men and women that leaves you wanting even more.
  
  
 4. You can change the pitch of your characters chosen voice.
  
  5. You can alter the appearance of the main characters multiple times.
  
  6. You can play music 
 of your choosing in the game.
  
  The Bad
  
  1. The blocking should not have ANY delay on it. God of War is the only game I can think of that 
 actually does blocking correctly. If blocking was instantaneous it would make it much easier for 
 people to compete and would also make the soul gauge more important.
  
  2. Sometimes weapons go through people and they do not take hits.
  
  3. Being a non-stop aggressor 
 and spammer is the easiest way to win and 50% of the people you will meet online will spam if only 
 because they were just spammed themselves and they don't care how they win anymore so long as they 
 win.
  
  4. The online is so poorly set up I could not believe my eyes when I got on. First of all it actually 
 tells you that a game fills up when you search for a quick match. For anyone who doesn't understand 
 why this is outrageously and mind-numbingly stupid or hasn't played the online, allow me to explain. 
 If there are only ever TWO people joining a match and you end up not being one of those two people 
 WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY WHY does it tell you that the session is full and make you search again 
 manually? If I didn't get into a match don't let me know, just keep searching until I do join one. 
 What is so hard to understand about that? What exactly did Namco do with all the extra time they 
 had after multiple delays? The online is also only good if you happen to be a Soul Calibur fiend 
 and you have nothing better to do but master the game (or as I've noticed, just remember a few 
 moves to spam the entire fight until you win) .
  
  5. Battle Theatre mode is gone and for no good reason. You can make up to 50 custom characters 
 now and there is no Battle Theatre. Why put it in all the other games and then cut it when it finally 
 reaches HD?
  
  6. The difficulty is far too high and cannot be changed. Story mode is easy and short, everything 
 else is hard and drawn out. This game was clearly made with only one group of people in mind and 
 that's the die-hard fans with absolutely nothing at all to do with their time except play Soul 
 Calibur. The kind of people that make me sick to my stomach they play this game so much. There 
 is no way that I'm the only person who simply enjoys playing Soul Calibur casually with friends 
 without memorizing every move that a character has and then putting all my energy and time into 
 battling a outrageously strong computer opponent or even worse a spamming Soul Calibur zombie online.
 
  
  7. Tower Mode Ascend and Descend are too hard and the difficulty is unchangeable. I don't want 
 a trophy, I don't want any recognition for being a badass Soul Calibur player, I just want a moderate 
 challenge so that I don't get bored, but I can still unlock all the items and arenas etc. The tower 
 modes are also incredibly tedious, forcing you to play the same stages overand overand overAND 
 OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER! I can't even play the game sometimes because I think about how 
 much I hate tower mode. In Ascend you can unlock treasures by pulling of feats during the fights, 
 but what Namco thought would be more fun is if you had to guess what exactly it is you are supposed 
 to do by solving a stupid riddle they provide AFTER you play through the level once.
  
  8. You can unlock chests with insignificant amounts of gold instead of accessories or items in 
 tower mode.
  
  9. The fighting arenas are mainly recycled and I was expecting a lot more.
  
  Replay Value: 
 5
  Online - 0 - I've never wanted to do anything less that get into spam fights with people I don't 
 know on the internet.
  Story Mode - 5 - Playing through once with each character should prove more than enough
  Arcade 
 - 5 - The difficulty is higher than story mode which is nice, but there's really nothing fin about 
 it after you get The Apprentice. I sometimes play it just because story mode is too easy.
  Tower Mode Ascend - 0 - I hate tower mode. Its not fun at any point. The riddles are stupid, the 
 repetition makes it irritating.
  Tower Mode Descend - 1 - This is less irritating than Ascend, but it is still far too difficult. 
 None of my friends or myself can beat it and we've put hours into it.
  Vs. - 10 - Depending on how you handle vs. mode (I swear profusely, deny what I'm seeing and hold 
 myself back from destroying my controller) vs. is endless fun with the right people.
  
  Lastly, who the hell wants to unlock the stupid art work that they keep releasing with these games? 
 I'll take Battle Theatre over a worthless sketch of Talim any day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Generic_Dude
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  The original Soul Calibur's designation by many critics as the greatest 3D fighter of all time 
 has burdened Namco Bandai with extremely high expectations to replicate that experience in subsequent 
 releases, and with SC IV being the series' debut on Playstation 3 and Xbox 360, those expectations 
 have been raised further. Unfortunately, Soul Calbur IV is a functional, but ultimately underwhelming, 
 fighting experience.
  
  The game includes several modes, including what may be the weakest story mode in fighting game 
 history. The story mode is a palty five stages padded out with cutscenes that, apart from the characters 
 involved, are more or less identical, with all of them being unfathomably lame. The game also includes 
 a regular arcade mode and what is, essentially, a survival mode. Naturally, the game now includes 
 online options, but the implementation is so poor that the real battle is actually getting to play 
 somebody.
  
  The fighting itself is very good, and accessible to experts and button-mashers alike. Each character 
 has a robust selection of moves and the various characters each have a different fighting style 
 but the gameplay rarely feels unbalanced. In the event that you tire of the default character lineup, 
 the game includes a robust character editor.
  
  Graphically, the game is good, but not great. The environments and character models are better 
 than previous entries in the series, but not groundbreaking in any sense. The presentation otherwise 
 is low-rent, with a menu that looks like it could conceivably be from a Playstation 2 / Xbox game. 
 The lighting effects are ridiculously overdone, giving everything a distracting glow.
  
  While the graphics are average, the sound is simply horrible. The game ships with some of the worst 
 dubbed English voice acting you're likely to hear outside of Kung Fu Theater. Gamers best option 
 is to switch to the Japanese voice track, though, regrettably, this doesn't affect the announcer's 
 voice, which may be the worst of the bunch. The orchestral score, in keeping with the rest of the 
 game's presentation, is half-assed, but will more than likely fade into the background for most 
 gamers.
  
  It's worth mentioning that Soul Calibur IV also has no trophy support, and those with a DualShock 
 3 controller will be disappointed with its lack of rumble options.
  
  For those willing to overlook the variable presentation, Soul Calibur IV has decent and accessible 
 fighting action and includes a great character creation mode, but this reviewer can't help but 
 think that, given the game's pedigree, that it should've been much, much more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wiredscotty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 8:39 am PT
Review:  Fighting games have come a long way since Street Fighter. Back then you had a dude with a few moves 
 who would scream at you as he threw punches and kicks. Well... none of that had really changed.... but 
 what HAS changed are the layers of coolness put on top of that basic formula.
  
  Soulcalibur IV has a lot of layers of coolness, and while it doesn't really do anything innovative, 
 it's an incredibly polished game. It feels solid, well done, and sexy.... sexy because of all the 
 hot chicks in the game. There are a lot of chicks in the game... as well as some dudes, and some 
 inhuman guys as well. They all look great, though from what I can tell, there may be only a few 
 new characters. Among these, are Darth Vader and his apprentice. That's right. It seems that Lucas 
 is getting his grubby little mitts into everything lately. I'm certain it's only a matter of time 
 before he starts literally invading our houses... and then our dreams. 
  
  But despite my disdain for Lucas , Darth Vader and the apprentice are a welcome change. Vader looks 
 amazing and is done perfectly. His apprentice is also polished. What are they doing in this game? 
 Who knows. The story in the game sucks. There, I said it. But really, who the hell plays a fighting 
 game for the story? Sickos. That's who.
  
  I don't play for story, I play for kick assyness. And this game has it. Great graphics. Cool levels. 
 Awesome characters and a fairly robust character creation mode. You have a ton of features to customize, 
 and can unlock different equipment and armor. I'm not going to say "if you can imagine it you can 
 make it".... because that would be cliche... and a lie. But I WILL say that you can make a satisfying 
 character with ease. Anything from a huge green hulking gladiator.... to a petite and sexy, half 
 naked minx. To which your wife will roll her eyes. So you roll your eyes back at her. And then 
 she says your immature. And then you cover your ears and tell her to stop yelling at you as you 
 cry in the corner.
  
  And since this is a fighting game, I guess I should say something about the combat. Well, it's 
 great. It's satisfying. It doesn't feel frustrating, even if you suck... which I do. Swords hitting 
 armor and other swords looks, sounds and feels great. And if you get in enough good shots, pieces 
 of your enemies armor fly off. They can also do the same to you. So if your lucky, you can eventually 
 have two chicks with swords fighting each other in their underwear aboard Vader's Star destroyer.... every 
 7th graders fantasy.
  
  So if you like underwear and fighting, pick up this game. If you don't like underwear and fighting, 
 then it's time to re-evaluate your life. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WESTOMOPRESTO
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:11 am PT
Review:  This review was made because of the fact that i own both a PS3 and a XBOX 360 and im f*cking rich 
 so i own both versions of SoulC4
  so there is a review for Yoda and Darth in here...
  
  i find that some of the Characters are ever powered somewhat, and some are underpowered, Such as.... 
 Yoda. Yoda is very under powered because of his move set, but he is also over powered because of 
 his size. i think they (as in the SC4 team) should have thought of that before releasing the game. 
 Darth Vader is good, i have nothing to say but i wish they made him a slower fighter, its kinda 
 his style you know :P ( in my opinion of course) and i find that Arcade mode Aldol is too F*cking 
 hard!
  Aldol on Arcade in my opinion is too fast compared to his actual speed.
  i actually had to get one round beat with against him, then leave the game on over night, then 
 i woke up and beat the second round. ( i did that to get some sleep before trying to beat em up 
 again) i find this game Very Frustrating.
  but i love this game, other than those two aspects and the Unbalanced Online multilayer with no 
 Rank Match system is GREAT!
  any way, i think its a good game, but i wouldn't buy it if you already enjoy SC3 or i would buy 
 it if you want online.\
  
  Yoda Over/Underpowered=Unbalanced (Xbox ver)
  Aldol (arcade) Overpowered=Frustration
  Darth Vader Needed more EmPuh! but its all good.. its 
 F*cking Darth vader :D
  Apprentice=Overpowered ( Read the Xbox 360 version Player reviews to see what other people like 
 are saying about the Apprentice. ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aura_enchanted
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 7, 2008 9:44 pm PT
Review:  this game has to be the biggest dissappointment in a fighting game franchise since noob sabot was 
 discovered in mortal kombat. the game has amazing visuals true and the voices are nice and some 
 of the combos arent half bad but the story is essentially the same cutscenes done over and over. 
 the apprentice is overpowered so bad his only equal would be if chuuck norris was plced in the 
 game and given godlike powers as he is rumored to have. essentially u can kill anyone anytime by 
 throwing and blocking repetitively thus taking away from the games ability to test a fighting game 
 players abilities and degrading him to spamming like hes playing sum god forsaken mmo. the game 
 character customization heas both improved and fallen short from soul calibur 3. you do have customizable 
 stats and u do get access to a finer color scheme but armor is very limited in comparison to the 
 last one and u cant access the amazing side abilites of the soul calibur 3 (barbarian, dancer, 
 jester, pirate, gladiator, knight, grieve edge, etc.) . which brings me to my next point though 
 the game may look pretier if u compare the two closely they have essentially made a handful of 
 new moves taken away a handful of old ones and copy n pasted the rest. may question is for all 
 the hype this game has wheres the creativity its like sumone added some glitter and a 2 star wars 
 camios to soul calibur 3 wrapped it in a shiny new box and called it a game. i call this a dissappointing 
 faliure of a game. way to go campcom. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SePhIrOtH66
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 7, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  Soulcalibur is one of the best series of fighting games out there. Soulcalibur IV is the first 
 of the series to hit the current generation of hardware.
  
  SC4 has pretty good graphics, although I feel they do not take full advantage of the PS3/X360's 
 capabilities. Better-looking games were released for both systems long before this one. However, 
 it's pleasing to look at, and doesn't seem underdone.
  
  The rest of the technical aspects of the game are all pretty much up to snuff. The sound is great, 
 with lots of clanging and slashing and smashing, the English voice-acting is terrible as usual 
 (but we've all come to expect that from a Soulcalibur game) , while the Japanese voice-acting is 
 very good. The controls, for most fighting styles, are smooth, and the default button map is intuitive 
 and hardly needs customization. For the PS3, due to a short installation (that's optional) , the 
 load times are practically nothing most of the time, but they do once in a while drag on for upwards 
 of 20 seconds (still nothing to complain about) . X360 load times are longer because of a lack of 
 an install option.
  
  I'm sure you recall that Soulcalibur 3 had an awesome Create-a-Soul mode, where you could customize 
 your very own fighter and give him/her one of many different fighting styles. It's back in SC4, 
 and the general aspects of it are even better, with more options to choose from, and the highly 
 upgraded graphics present on even the smallest, most mundane piece of equipment. You can even customize 
 how muscular your fighter is, and his/her overall body density (for females this translates almost 
 directly into breast-size) . There are a bunch of hairstyles, although they are mostly taken from 
 the normal characters. Speaking of normal characters, you can customize them, as well. You can 
 customize their weapons, clothes, hairstyle, and colors, although you can't change any aspects 
 of their body, such as physique, muscularity, or face shape.
  
  Despite the great creation system, the equipment system is one of the most disappointing aspects 
 of the game. If you remember, in SC3, you chose a sex, and then a class, and your class determined 
 which weapons you could use, and then the weapons themselves had abilities and powers that determined 
 what you could do. In SC4, you choose a sex, then a fighting style, and the fighting styles are 
 limited to the ones possessed by the normal characters (you'd pick Yoshimitsu-style, or Nightmare-style, 
 for example) , and then you get a number of skill points according to which weapon you use within 
 that style. Then, your equipment adds or subtracts skill points, as well as Stat points (Attack, 
 Defense, and HP) . Once you have your equipment chosen, you assign powers (such as Shave Damage, 
 which allows your attacks to deal a minute amount of damage through the enemy's guard) , and each 
 power uses a number of skill points. Every character, every style, has access to the exact same 
 abilities at the exact same skill point costs.
  
  So, what it boils down to, is that you choose equipment based on the abilities you want, and likely 
 you'll want all of your characters to have the same abilities, because once you find a good combination, 
 there's no reason to experiment. You'll end up making characters that can look very similar when 
 you don't have much equipment to choose from, and a lot of times your characters will look absolutely 
 rediculous, and nothing like you want, just so they can merely survive the single-player mode Tower 
 of Lost Souls.
  
  The difficulty of SC4 is absolutely mind-boggling. It's not quite as hard as, say, Ninja Gaiden, 
 but it is still difficult to the point of being more of a chore than an enjoyable game. The Story 
 Mode and Arcade Mode are not that bad, although certain fighting styles will undoubtedly be challenging 
 against some of the opponents, but the Tower of Lost Souls Mode can literally drive you insane. 
 It pits you against opponents that have powers, just like you, except that they can have powers 
 that are better than yours.
  For example, you can have an ability called Null Ring Out C, B, or A, with A being the best and 
 meaning that you will avoid most ring outs. The opponents in TOLS can, and often do, have Null 
 Ring Out S, which means that they cannot be tossed out of the ring, period. The game likes to combine 
 this power with Auto Impact S, which means the opponent will automatically deflect nearly every 
 attack you make, and it damages you at the same time. Then they combine this with Grapple-Break 
 S, which means the opponent cannot be thrown, under any circumstances. All three of these combined 
 is rare, but does exist, and is nearly impossible to beat. For certain floors, you will likely 
 spend hours and countless retries trying to get past them, and it loses any element of fun it might 
 have had. Unfortunately, in order to get all the equipment (and unlock the Achievment/Honor that 
 goes with that accomplishment) you must complete every floor of TOLS, and perform a special little 
 chore in each stage, such as knocking down all the walls, or throwing your opponents a certain 
 number of times, or avoiding ring outs, or something like that.
  
  SC4 does have a neat Online mode, where you go one-on-one with someone over the Net. You can use 
 your custom characters here, and you level up as you win fights (not necessarily matches) . Your 
 account, not your individual characters, levels up. In order to level up, you must have maxed out 
 your "experience" bar, and then you must win a fight, called a "Battle of Destiny", which is no 
 different from an ordinary fight. Unfortunately, you will likely meet a whole bunch of retarded 
 players that achieve their level up by playing unfairly, and there's really no way to stop it, 
 unless you're really good. You will also likely experience a lot of input delay when playing against 
 opponents that don't have a strong connection to you, and this will likely lead to your death, 
 but can just as easily go the opposite way.
  
  All in all, SC4 is a disappointment due to the horrible equipment/skill-managing system and the 
 annoying difficulty of it's one and only worthwhile single-player mode. However, if you want to 
 play without powers online and in Arcade mode with your very own, highly detailed and highly customized 
 characters, then it's worth a rent at the very least. Just don't frustrate yourself with Tower 
 of Lost Souls. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lukeitch
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 7, 2008 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Simply Amazing, you will never run out of things to do in this game, you can do everyones storys, 
 climb the tower, do the arcade, fight your friends and people from all over the world! The story 
 mode is dissopointing, i was hoping that there would be one story where you are different characters 
 all of the time, like the sub-space emissary on super smash bros brawl. But I suppose having a 
 load of different endings isn't too bad. The tower is interesting, it gets harder all of the time, 
 you can ascend or desend. Ascending gives you new challenges, descending gives you old challenges. 
 Arcade is great, no need to go into depth though. Verses mode is brilliant, just you and your friend. 
 Online mode can get quite slow sometimes but altogether is great fun. Character creation is my 
 second favourite addition, you can have someone how you want to be and using your best characters 
 weapon! Great fun. But my favoutite feature is the Critical finish. If you get annoyed by people 
 who guard all of the time, Prepare to laugh in their faces. When you guard, you lose points in 
 your soul gauge, when thats empty, many things can happen. You can lose armour and take more damage 
 or you can enter soul crush for about half a second. If your in soul crush and you opponent presses 
 L1, you lose! So, if you fight people who guard all of the time, you kill them, if you are a person 
 who guards all of the time, change your tactics so you don't get overwhelmed!
  
  A Brilliant game overall but not yet perfect.
  
  : ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hakaru_Osagi
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 7, 2008 10:43 am PT
Review:  A highly addictive game. A load of fun to play online and beat down on your friends. The story 
 could have been better, but can be almost as fun as online. Stunning graphics only make the game 
 that much more enjoyable. Its the sort of game that tests your skill with many different weapon 
 types, character types, and combos. You should pick up a copy now if you want a game that just 
 gives you hours of fun from start to finish. Character creation gives you exactly what you want 
 with hundreds of different armor, weapon, face, voice, and skill combinations. Besides, who doesn't 
 want to force choke someone as Darth Vader? You'll continue to play this game as long as you have 
 someone to play it with. Even if you this is your first time with the Soul Calibur series, you'll 
 be able to get in the pace of the game and start beating everyone who thinks they're get enough 
 to play against you. This is the kind of game that I would recommend to anyone who wants to get 
 the most fun out of a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TanyaLover
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 6, 2008 9:13 pm PT
Review:  As one of the most prestigious fighting games to date, Soul Calibur as been a trustworthy name 
 when it comes straight down to that state of the art fighting game quality. From the beginning, 
 the series has won the wallets of many and it still does today. The fourth addition to the Soul 
 series delivers an impressive yet sometimes frustrating ride that will not disappoint. With amazing 
 graphics, crystal clear gameplay, and a cast of well-known and favorite characters, this is a game 
 that will be in your system for some time. All of these great traits tend to steer you away from 
 some minor, but still noticeable, flaws that should be addressed. 
  
  First, let's start with, I can assume, the most enjoyed part of this game -- graphics. We all know 
 that Soul Calibur is reliable for having top quality graphic effects... and Soulcalibur 4 is no 
 different. This game will please your eyes with smooth skin, strands of hair, amazing lighting 
 and shadowing, gorgeous reflection, and precise detail. Easily one of the better games out there 
 for the use of the newest systems' graphical capabilities is Soulcalibur 4.
  
  This series is also known for it's high quality gameplay. It remains superb in the fourth installment... though 
 it didn't bring much change. The newly named hard mode 'Edge Master' for basic versus mode is certainly 
 a tool that will keep any hardcore gamer looking for a challenge pleased. This, however, may overwhelm 
 some gamers to the extent of absolute anger and frustration. I feel that arcade mode, and story 
 mode were perhaps made too easy, and should have had more of a challenge to them. 
  
  Soulcalibur 4's weakest trait is it's story and story mode. Though each character is given a vivid 
 explanation as to there reason and existance, the mode falls into a dangerously disappointing rut 
 that leaves the player thirsty for more. It is, in short.... too short. This major lack, for me, 
 was somehow uplifted by the pleasing endings for each character. I enjoyed many of them, short, 
 long, straight-forward, difficult; I was pleased with how they were made and executed. 
  
  This game was a complete success and will entertain for hours upon hours. Simply, Soulcalibur 4 
 should be very strongly considered for PS3 or X-Box 360 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYrockinlegend
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:59 pm PT
Review:  I'm kinda disappointed in the performance of this game. For one thing, there's hardly anything 
 new in this game, and a lot of stuff missing. There's no shop option (unless it's in Tower of Lost 
 Souls mode) , the story mode is too short and doesn't live up to the previous game's stories of 
 the characters. Once again, they have a story for every character, but they kinda always did, and 
 the letdown is that they are so short with no cutscenes, only a few boxes of dialogue here and 
 there, and seemingly pointless encounters. I don't get who Angol, one of the final people you battle, 
 has to do with the series' storyline, and it's never explained, unfortunately. Also, a few game 
 modes are missing, and there are no new game modes. Yes, online must be a pretty exciting addition 
 to the series up to date, but couldn't there have been more multiplayer modes like a Team Battle 
 or Tournament mode?
  Despite all that, the graphics are very good-looking and the multiplayer isn't bad. It would've 
 been better if there were more modes besides a basic unranked/ranked versus battle to play offline/online, 
 but it's gameplay can still prove really addictive. There are a few gameplay additions like armor (I 
 kinda like this feature, it makes your opponent more vulnerable if you unleash heavy blows and 
 destroy their armor) , and soul gauge, which makes your opponent fatally vulnerable to a critical 
 finishing blow if they guard too much. It's also great to see that most of the likeable characters 
 return, with a bunch of exciting new ones, and the returning ones have been changed changed in 
 better ways. 
  
  I got this game, but the $60 price tag is kinda a rip-off to me for a game that falls kinda short 
 on replay value. I would recommend this game to arcade-fighter fans, and other fighting game fans, 
 as its multiplayer is guaranteed to outlive the single player campaign by a long shot. Again, it's 
 not a bad game, but it could've been alot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: standarddamage
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 24, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  To discuss SoulCalibur IV is to discuss a series of contradictions. This is mostly because the 
 game is beautiful, flawed, fun, disappointing, too easy, and frustrating all at the same time, 
 which is quite a feat for any game to pull off. 
  
  What it really boils down to, though, is the variety of modes that the game provides, and how Namco 
 Bandai handled each of them. In some of these modes the game simply shines, and other modes fall 
 so flat you almost wonder why they even bothered. 
  
  For all of the modes, most of the basics have been handled well. The characters and backgrounds 
 are beautiful, the background music is your standard SoulCalibur fare (which is not a bad thing) , 
 and the controls are not only responsive, but can be altered (re-mapped) to fit your fighting style. 
 So while you're fighting your opponents, you won't be fighting these distractions. However, with 
 the exception of the Star Wars characters, the voice acting is incredibly cheesy and loaded with 
 coined phrases, and this is magnified by the character's lips not staying in sync with what they're 
 saying. The game's narrator is even worse, and doesn't do a good job of portraying the strength 
 and epic feel the game is supposed to have. 
  
  While the addition of the Star Wars characters is a bit odd, they don't feel as strange as you 
 would suspect. This is mostly thanks to how well each character in the game is balanced against 
 the others, as there aren't any "super-characters" in the game. Even the lesser characters such 
 as Tira, Lizardman, and Rock can take out characters the likes of Algol and Cervantes. The only 
 problem character is Yoda in the 360 version of the game as he's small, hard to hit, and almost 
 impossible to grab because of his small stature. He can be defeated, but it's not as fair of a 
 fight as it is with the other characters. 
  
  If you're not happy with the choices available, you can create your own fighters in the "Character 
 Creation" mode. And you'll be surprised by how far you can really go in building your own personal 
 warrior. Don't get me wrongnot everything is customizable, so give up any thoughts about putting 
 Darth Vader in a bikini. What it does do is give you several choices of faces, clothing, and weapons, 
 as well as the colors for each. You can also choose your voice (and its pitch) , and change your 
 physique to be larger or smaller. The best part is that, in battle, your creations look just as 
 smooth and play just as well as any of the stock fighters, and are fully playable in just about 
 all the modes.
  
  "Versus" mode is, of course, battling another opponent until one of you has lost a certain number 
 of bouts, and is the basis of any solid fighter. I will tell you that whether you're dueling with 
 a friend in your living room, or smashing it out on-line, you will have fun with this game. Both 
 the ranked and unranked matches over the Playstation Network gave me very little trouble with lag 
 or wait times, and enhanced the overall game experience tremendously.
  
  "Arcade" mode has you battle eight different characters, and then scores your performance appropriately, 
 while "The Tower" mode is the game's survival mode that throws wave after wave of enemies at you 
 to see if you have what it takes. The upside to both of these modes, besides the battles themselves, 
 is they encourage you to play to unlock additional equipment to be used in Character Creation, 
 and the downside is that these modes suffer from one of SoulCalibur's trademark flaws: difficulty 
 extremes. You'll fight several characters in a row that are a cakewalk, and then suddenly fight 
 a character that is almost impossible to take down. The most extreme example of this is when you 
 face The Apprentice in "Arcade" mode for the first time. He uses excessive amounts of the force, 
 keeps his distance, and then comes in and pounds you mercilessly to a pulp. The character after 
 him, however, goes back to being a cakewalk. It just makes no sense, and there's no excuse for 
 it seeing as properly adjusted difficulty goes all the way back to the original Mortal Kombat. 
 
  
  The final mode that needs to be discussed is also this game's weakest: "Story" mode. This mode 
 allows you to follow the legend of each character throughout a series of five battles. While obtaining 
 this background information could be fun, certain flaws simply ruin it such as the poor lip-syncing 
 I mentioned earlier. It is also way too easy to play through at its default difficulty setting. 
 As an experiment I simply mashed one button through all five battles, and actually won all five 
 battles on my first try. They also give you the introduction narrative to each character in written 
 form on the screen, as opposed to a cut-scene, which feels very cheap given the hardware this game 
 is running on. A proper adventure mode for even one of the major characters, given the rich history 
 of the SoulCalibur series, could have helped take this game right over the top. 
  
  Don't let the gripes, however, dissuade you from purchasing the game, especially if you're looking 
 for some excellent combat action. I've only spent the time I have on the downsides of this title 
 to explain why it's only a good game, and not an outstanding one. If more time had been spent on 
 polishing the game's weak points, we'd be talking about its glory for years to come.
  
  So if you can see past the issues I've mentioned above, it's worth paying the full price tag and 
 picking this title up. If these issues are more than you're willing to tolerate, wait until the 
 price hits around $40.00, as it's easily worth that much. SoulCalibur IV may not have lived up 
 to its potential, but it's still worth playing nonetheless. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeathwingPanzer
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Soul calibur 4 is a great game, though at times runs the risk of being a "controller smasher." 
 The story is not very deep, but its a fighting game after all, and its good enough for this game. 
 The characters look great, and if you don't think so, you can make your own with the character 
 creator with a great deal of control on the look of your character. Combat is great, except when 
 dealing with the higher end of the Tower of Souls and the Guest characters, which are unbalanced. 
 Yoda is small, hard to hit unless he's attacking and he's immune to grappling, and The Apprentice 
 is powerful though no where as bad as Yoda. The AI on is highest/higher setting reacts far faster 
 then the majority of people, and at times is infuriating to fight.
  
  Overall, the game is great, though it needs some balancing on the AI for newer fight game players 
 and a bit of work on the guest characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV offers quite a bit, I would take online play as the biggest winner here because 
 it works well and you will probably be spending majority of your time on it.
  The lag really depends, majority of my time it was lag free but I have encountered a few pretty 
 bad ones. The best thing to do is invite your friend to play or creating your own room as a host.
 
  Quick match will usually match you lag free. Aside from playing a Standard Match which is basically 
 core gameplay without any bells and whistles.
  
  There is also Special match where you play with your own customized characters as well as use certain 
 abilities. Depending on which armor sets you put on you, that will determinate which level of ability 
 you can equip on yourself since they all cost differently. 
  You can equip yourself up to three abilities, which will be similar to those who played COD4, so 
 called perks. Keep in mind that this are used in Special Matches only which is a nice touch. 
 
  
  A good example of ability would be: a) You start the match with all stats boost up for few seconds, 
 b) Having a chance that your attacks won't be block able, c) chance of not being able to be thrown 
 out of the ring and so forth.
  There are quite a few choices.
  One of the deepest and most time spent option for me was character customization. Everything can 
 be colored into unique character, there are lots and lots of armor, weapons to unlock and I have 
 met some pretty good variations of folks online. 
  I was amazed how one player was able to almost make a persona of Sephiroth. 
  
  You can really 
 spend a lot of time playing around with character creation process.
  
  Aside from that, there is a single player mode which you can play each persons short story mode, 
 which takes about 10 minutes. That's a good way to unlock an impressive character roster as well 
 as earn cash and spend it on artworks, buying new weapons and armor and so forth.
  
  Darth Vader plays quite interestingly, while he certainly has power he does require some advanced 
 play to be really good. The Dark Apprentice on the other hand has some very impressive moves and 
 feels a little overpowered but both of those guys are only extras to overall well done fighting 
 game.
  
  For those, like myself, who prefer Japanese Voice acting I'm pleased to say that there is a option 
 to change the language with subtitles, which is a good thing considering pretty weak English dub.
 
  
  On the hardware side, you have an option to install 2.6 GB of data onto the hard-drive if you want 
 in PS3 version and I would recommend it.
  The load times are barely more then 3-5 seconds if you choose to make an install and everything 
 loads nicely.
  However, this is optional and you don't have to. The waiting time is still reasonable without installation 
 but if you have space, option is there.
  
  Overall, I definitely didn't covered all the mechanics SCIV has to offer, but in the end, I'm left 
 with pleasant satisfaction of a good fighting game.
  Soul Calibur fans will have a blast but the game is definitely accessible to all new players as 
 well.
  If you want, you can spend time in training mode and really learn advanced play.
  Very good fighting game, I recommend it to anyone who enjoys the genre.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saar54
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  Quick and to the point:
  
  The game is incredibally smooth and responsive. Loading times are quick and since you can install 
 it on the PS3, even quicker. There are over 30+ characters each with his own set of different moves 
 and critical finishes. 
  
  There are great modes for single player that keep you entertained. But where it shines most is 
 online play. There is a ranking system which ranks you by level. There is rarely lag. Character 
 customization is awesome. This game is also easy to play, you don't need to be a master.
  
  This game is great as a fighting game and that's all you really need. Also, it rarely gets boring. 
 Most fighting games end up a bore but this really offers a smooth and almost addictive style of 
 play that keeps you going and going and going. You won't get bored of this game at all. 
  
  I want to give this game a 9/10 but my gut is saying 8.5 for some reason. Either way, don't hesitate, 
 go rent/buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masterhalo43
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  Soulcalibur has always been a arcade and console favorite to people who like this genre of games. 
 The first thing I noticed is that it has beautiful graphics. The story mode is great for people 
 who is new to the series. The characters are great but the Star Wars characters feel out of place. 
 Its a nice addition but Soulcalibur is known for characters with huge weapons, not lightsabers (even 
 if they are cool) . The Tower of Lost Soul is awsome. The best part of this game is the character 
 creation. You can make a person with any huge weapon the game has. Why, just the other day I made 
 the HULK. If you want to play online, its not fun. Just stick to versus mode with somebody sitting 
 next to you. The versus mode is also good to show your pals the people you made and then smash 
 them to bits with soul edge. The game has massive amounts of replayability and its going to be 
 in my ps3 collection. I don't think I'm gonna give to gamstop anytime soon. Overall, the game is 
 great. The good things are there are great graphics, highly addictive and the character creation 
 is very in depth. The bad is the online play isn't as fun as I thought it would be. The Star Wars 
 characters are out of place. Just get the game if you like fighting games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 9:07 am PT
Review:  Transcending history and the world, a tale of sous and swords, eternally retold.. Soul Calibur 
 4 is obviously a fighting game, and the 5th main game of the soul series, it's mainly about two 
 sords, the Soul Calibur (good sword) and the Soul Edge (evil sword) as the strongest weapons in 
 the game, originaly, the game started of with Soul Edge (Soul Blade) for the playstation, comes 
 with 10 characters, and the original game, and the story starts of as Cervantes being the holder 
 of the Soul Edge, the game was released in 1995, then in 1999, Soul Calibur was released for the 
 dreamcast which had way more characters, and became the best game ever for the dreamcast and a 
 game that recieved perfect scores from Famitsu, Ign and gamespot, and more. Then Soul Calibur 2 
 was released in 2003 for PS2, Gamecube and Xbox, Gamecube version being a higher rated than the 
 other two because it's the best version, you get Link in the game, and Link is a better guest character 
 than the other versions, SCII is my favourite Soul game, then Soul Calibur 3 came out only for 
 PS2, which had way more characters than Soul Calibur 4.
  
  The graphics for Soul Calibur 4 is somewhat different, the armor are super shiny and the weapons 
 as well, and the characters faces look different, like Kilik, and Seung Mina (Seong Mi-Na) in this 
 version, and a lot more characters, Mitsurugi did look the same though. they're really detailed, 
 but very lightish. The gameplay remeined somehow the same, but they did change Character moveset, 
 like Kilik, he doesn't do that spinning thing anymore and so as Raphael, he doesn't do the unescapable 
 button mashing attack, well obviously a button mashing game, like a typical fighting game, a control 
 scheme that you will love when doing it and hating it if you're the victim, the storymode, ehm.. 
 yeah, just like the arcade and very shocking, comparing Soulcalibur, II and III, this version doesn't 
 even feel it has a storymode and feels short, a lot short. the arcade is now extended into 8 matches, 
 and taking of the destined battle into forcing you to battle The apprentice, and Algol in the last 
 battle. But the Tower of Souls can keep you up for the game, and the removal of a weapon master 
 mode, makes the game weak by taking away the unlocking weapons, instead, they have an idea opf 
 buying them in the Create A Character mode, 'buying the characters' and I think it's a supremely 
 a cheap way of unlocking characters, and you only get 2 different costumes, but you can create 
 a costume for them. Also can create a caracter in the game, but sometimes ruin it, for example 
 I created a Male character, and I've picked a weapon use, like Seong Mi-Na, then the moves work 
 perfect but the taunt, can ruin the character, and the Starwars characters ruined it, no offence 
 to starwars fans, but I don't like the idea of adding Starwars characters to the game, but they 
 are hillarious characters, and using the force is great fun, and the additional of the armor destroying 
 and the Critical Finish making it a great game, also moving it towars the 3 win instead for the 
 2 win but can be changed in options, and can't forget Online play, it made a ballance through the 
 game, Sounds has always been great, we all know Namco can produce some good music. Presentation 
 really looks good, but the opening was weak, only showing 7 characters in the opening isn't really 
 a good way of opening. Anyway, SoulCalibur 4 might have a few letdowns, but still an awesome game, 
 it won't beat the original, and the 2nd one and won't beat SSBB, Soul Calibur for Xbox live is 
 terrible, the original is way better, and SCIV beats the XBLA version of SoulCalibur, and should 
 have never been through the 360. I've got the Limited Edition packaging, UK version, of the game, 
 and the game better have a sequel.
  
  Goods/ +
  Very sharp Graphics
  Awesome Gameplay
  Awesome Sounds
  Skills and Luck all the way
  Online is clean and great
 
  Some good details in the game like the Museum
  Creating characters can be great
  Can put the language to Japanese
  Can change the entire thing in Japanese
  Can take off the 
 ladies armor through their bra and panties
  Only 40 with a limited edition package only in GAME
  A very detailed game
  You get some sort 
 of Level-up character skills in the game
  You get Honor a kind of an achievement, like in SSBB when you have to do certain thing to achieve 
 them award
  
  Bads/ -
  Storymode is just shocking and supremely short
  Some things are removed in Soul Calibur 4
  Some movestets were ruined like Kilik and Seong Mi-Na's 
 'spin' move and yoshimitsu's 'pogo' stick.
  Only 2 new characters
  The roster is shorter than SCIII
  Starwars ruined it
  Unlocking characters are very cheap
 
  There's no weapon demonstration
  Destined Battle is removed
  No Inferno in the game, and so as Charade
  You can't take off the bra in the game, it's a shame (Only 
 Joking)
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 9/10
  Graphics - 10/10
  Sounds - 10/10
  Value - 7/10
  Presentation - 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drmfreak2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Soul calibur is one of the best fighters in the series going up against classics like DOA, Tekken, 
 Mortal Kombat, and Virtua Fighter. It brings a lot of new things that other fighters just couldn't 
 deliver. It's stunning visuals, insane combos, easy interface, and its assortment of huge breasted 
 babes makes this a game worth buying. However it doesn't mean that it doesn't have flaws.
  The first thing you'll notice when playing the game is how top notch the graphics and gameplay 
 are; probably the best I've seen for a fighter. The online play is pretty solid compared to other 
 games which are just to fast paced to keep up with. The characters seem well balanced although 
 there are some characters that will draw little kid button mashers *cough* Kilik *cough*. The only 
 things that really frustrate me is the blocking system which seems a little to slow, no countering 
 abilites, and that the side step seems very weak compared to Soul Calibur 2. Other than that the 
 gameplay is great.
  One of the best features of the game that many players enjoy is the character customization. The 
 ability to create your own player from scratch and cover him/her in an array of clothing that can 
 be unlocked through the story mode is just brilliant. You can even customize body type such as 
 muscularity and figure (breast size) .
  The game is just right in learning curve. It'll take about 30 minutes to learn the basics and some 
 advance moves, but once you do they're pretty much the same for every character like every other 
 fight.
  Overall I would say this is a must buy for the fighting fanatics and definitley a rental for those 
 who are new to the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spexwood
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 6:10 pm PT
Review:  1) Game in General:
  PROs= *Beautiful graphics and control schemes haven't changed much except that new special attacks 
 have been added like Critical Finishes.
  *The ability to break armor off of your opponent has been added.
  *Has many hours of replayability 
 since it is a fighting game.
  *Downloadable content has been available so far, so hopefully more, much better stuff will be available 
 in the near future.
  *Both an online and offline version of Versus Mode is available.
  CONs= *A SWITCH (SWT) command has been added to the game play in certain modes that allows you 
 to switch between multiple fighters during a battle. Unfortunately, this command can only be programmed 
 onto the controller as L1, L2, R1, R2, Triangle, Circle, Square, or X. This means you have 1 less 
 button to program difficult-to-press combos such as Triangle+X or Square+Circle. The programmers 
 should have made the SWT command programmed to the SELECT button on the controller since SELECT 
 is easy to press and is not used at all in the game by default.
  *The Star Wars guest characters do not fit well in the Soul Calibur series, but do not let this 
 discourage players from buying the game.
  [I do not care for Star Wars personally, but I promise that my opinion towards Star Wars will not 
 affect my rating on this game]
  
  2) Story Mode:
  [No Important PROs]
  CONs= *Stories are only 5 stages long and are MUCH too short!
  *Multiple paths have been eliminated.
 
  *Endings suggest a possible end to the Soul Calibur franchise, which is a real disappointment.
 
  
  3) Tower of Lost Souls:
  PROs= *Provides a fair challenge in the game as you progress up or down the Survival Mode-like 
 tower.
  CONs= *You can unlock special equipment for the Character Creation Mode, by unlocking treasures. 
 There is 1 treasure per floor, each with a specific requirement, (such as blocking x number of 
 times) , but some of these requirements are very tricky to achieve. Also, a hint is given at the 
 beginning of each floor, but it is almost like a very short riddle, and I, for one, lack riddling 
 abilities, so cannot figure out what the hint is suggesting to me.
  
  4) Arcade Mode:
  PROs= *Still provides a simple arcade experience if you want to 'Just Fight'.
  CONs= *No difficulty 
 settings are available, so there is no Easy, Normal, Hard, or Edge Master options.
  *You can use custom characters, but their skills are useless. There needs to be a Special Arcade 
 Mode that allows the use of these skills.
  *The Star Wars character named The Apprentice should NOT be in the Arcade mode at all since he 
 is not a Soul Calibur character, but even more importantly, he is MUCH too overpowered and fast 
 in the mode. This causes a lot of frustration and almost makes Arcade Mode not fun. He needs to 
 be a bit easier if players are unable to change difficulty levels!!!!!!!
  
  6) Character Creation Mode:
  PROs= *Your custom characters can now have varying Attack, Defense, 
 and HP levels depending on the equipment and weapons you add to them.
  *Special abilities such as the ability to reduce chance of getting Ringed Out, can now be added 
 using Skill Points, which are also determined by clothing and weapons.
  *Standard Characters can still be customized, but now their clothing (to some extent) can be changed, 
 as well as their Skill Point abilities and Attack, Defense, and HP levels.
  *Ability to change body muscularity and physique.
  *Ability to change voice pitches.
  CONs= 
 *Clothing affects the Attack, Defense, and HP levels of the characters, which means that if you 
 want to create a character that looked a certain way, you can often end up with an uber weak character 
 that is almost not worth playing. So, if you want to keep the character strong, they can turn out 
 looking like a toddler who tried to dress themselves. I wish that the clothing were not the things 
 that affected these levels.
  *Many of the clothing items are too detailed, which limits the true customization of the character. 
 An great example of what I mean is some of the Lower Body Parts, which include pants that have 
 belts already attached to them, unlike in Soul Calibur 3, where the pants and belts were separate 
 items.
  *Facial hair is attached to the male faces, and MUST be the same color as the eyebrows.
  *Females 
 cannot have lipstick. So, for example, if you want a female with black lipstick, her skin must 
 also be black.
  *Male faces are U-G-L-Y UGLY. However, Face #1 is okay, but is too young.
  *There are not enough varieties of hairstyles for both genders.
  *Many of the clothing parts 
 simply do not belong, such as a modern nurse's outfit and flight attendant.... ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jupiter1333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  I, personally, love FPS's. Actually, I don't own any fighting games at all! I was hesitant about 
 buying SC4, fearing I'd dislike it or get bored of it too quickly. I was absolutely wrong. 
  
  Gameplay: Controls are tight, there are hundreds of moves to perform, different weapons mean 
 different fighting styles!
  
  Graphics: Extremely detailed, lighting effects couldn't get any better, characters all look great.
 
  
  Sound: Decent, not the best but not bad either.
  
  Voice Acting: Not so good... lol, but it didn't bother me much, I was having too much kicking butt!
 
  
  Value: Pretty good, tower of lost adds some time, Create a character (if you into that) adds LOTS 
 of hours, if your going to collect armor.
  
  All in all, a very fun game. I'd reccomend it to anyone except someone who absolutely HATES fighters. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nezza08
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 11:39 am PT
Review:  Well All I Can Say About This Game Is Wow. Well Let Me Start... The Single Player Is very Short 
 And Not To The Best Standard, But It Gives You The Feel Of How To Play With Each Character, I Mean 
 It Shows You The Characters Moves. :) ) Versus Battles Against Your Friends Are Also Very Fun As 
 You Can Imagine . The Character Creation Has A Lot Of Depth To It And Is Interesting To Play Around 
 With. The Online Is The Crystal Of This Game, While Finding And Playing A Game Can Be Tedious, 
 Because If A Server Is Full You have To Search Again , When It Could Just Let You Try Again On 
 That Same List. But The Online Play Makes Up For It, Unless You Join While A Batlle Is Playing 
 You Can Spectate The Players Who Are Fighting Which Can Help You Identify Their Fighting Style 
 And See Which Character They're Using And What Their SKill Level Is. But When You Battle It Just 
 GIves You A Massive Difference From CPU's Who You Can Just Keep Attacking, Because On This You 
 Have To Block And Use Other Skills. This Is What Makes It Almost Flawless There Are JUst A Tiny 
 Few Things That Could Be Changed... For Example Single Player And Could Possibly Have More Game 
 Modes. But Overall This Game Is Quality. I Don't Know What The Downgraded Reviews Are About.. I 
 Guess MAYBE Players Who have Played Past Soul Calibur Games Might Be Dissapointed, But I For One 
 Am Not. Quality Game. Must Buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wars45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 3:42 am PT
Review:  yes am a big fan of soul cailbur games and the 4 one. is no disapointment its a cool beat um up 
 and its online its got beatutifully balanced fighting and the best cloths smashing physics seen 
 in eny game and u can creat a charcter and fight online with him or her its a lot of fun and its 
 got story mode and arcade mode if u do arcade mode u get ranked if u online. and its all so got 
 tower of lost souls u can go up it or down it and it gets harder has u go a long it gets extream 
 . thers 16 charcters to chose from . and it works fine online. when its u turn for a game if thers 
 moor than 2 of u the winer stays on ,u can be on the verge of death and win with a fluke ring out 
 . if u a fan of beat um ups then get this game its a lot of fun its one of this games u can pick 
 up if u wont a ten min bash on it id go has far has to say this his the best beat um up out at 
 the min , i love it buy it to day 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  In the next year you are going to see a hell of a lot of new fighters spring up and karate chop 
 you sideways. There's the big guns of Street Fighter IV, the crazy madness of PS3 exclusive Tekken 
 6, hero/villain whore fest MK vs DC and the slightly less appealing Naruto: Ultimate Ninja (which 
 I didn't really want to mention) . The problem I am fearing will happen, with all these titles, 
 and starting to witness with those released is they aren't going reinvent the wheel much.
  
  At this point you may be expecting me to roll in with Soul Calibur IV and saying that it does, 
 but unfortunately for those expecting a fighting revolution on their hands, don't hold your breath. 
 Calibur IV sees a definitive refinement of the long running series with smoother animations, more 
 elaborate visuals, bigger tats and smaller costumes, all crammed on top of a pretty weak story 
 mode and a stodgey online mode.
  
  First off, unlike Virtua Fighter 5, it is a lot more accessible to a wider audience, anyone can 
 pick up in play, negatively though in other words this could translate as players who don't know 
 their stuff can rely on good old button mashing, and you know what - they can. SC purists will 
 hate this fact but I can get through about three quarters of the Tower mode (the new level up battle 
 mode) by simply button mashing my way to victory, and I'm crap at the game. That temptation is 
 always there and unfotunately for some, it is too tempting and ruins any skill or point of the 
 game.
  
  Fortunately, you can map any buttons to any move that suits you, which is in effect brilliant for 
 pulling off those near impossible uber moves that make you look dead good at the game.
  
  Though the fighting is little hit and miss, in terms of what I've just mentioned, the game is visually 
 stunning and the best looking fighter out there. Costume are very elaborate and OTT and look jaw 
 dropping in HD. Sigfried is a particular favourite to gawp at, as his spiky, icey armour looks 
 staggering. Ivy on the other hand, I'm gawping at the size of her assets, how can that woman stand 
 up straight? The environments are immensely detailed and are breakable, however damage does fade 
 away after a matter of seconds, which with immense detail like this game, shouldn't really be happening.
 
  
  The new story mode has around 5 levels for each character, all 35+ of them, all in varying difficulty 
 but too damn short and lacks any sort of depth whatsoever, the actual story the loosely ties the 
 whole thing togther is weak and laughable and in many cases the endings are very confusing. The 
 Tower Mode is fun, as you take down an onslaught of bad guys and whoop their asses, but after the 
 20th floor this gets highly repetitive and groan worthy. 
  
  Online is good, when it works and not laggy, and when you're not pitted against someone who is 
 level 35 when you're only level 5. Randomness is unfair, but when it works it is enjoyable. Unfortunately 
 you can not set games up with your mates or find anyone who owns the game to play with.
  
  The character creation mode is the most in depth aspect of the game, though not reaching the frankenstien-esque 
 alteration limits of Tiger Woods. It feature loads of costumes, faces, hair and voices and you 
 can make a decent enough character that you can then play as through story on online. So far we've 
 managed to make replicas of The Hulk, Mysteeq from X-Men, Lara Croft and Jak from Jak & Daxter 
 but minus the ears.
  
  Overall, Soul Calibur IV is a brilliant fighting game that is maybe a little too accessible btut 
 looks gorgeous on your new shiny HD TV, the addition of Darth Vader is exciting but has no relevance 
 to whether you should buy the game or not, as it is a worthwhile purchase for any fighter fanatic 
 that Tekken 6 isn't expected to surpass any time soon.
  
  And as a last word, I think the box art is totally horendous. Absolutely awful and horrid.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: nviegas79
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  Well, I got thinking it was going to be great, sadly I was wrong.
  
  The game play is good, but it ends up to be the typical finder mashing game. Only because the use 
 of special moves is limited.
  The story levels are too short, and the AI takes time to understand your moves and give you a good 
 fight...
  Sometimes, it feels as if the AI is on a coffee break, while you smash your oppenent sensless, 
 and especailly when he is a nightmare...
  
  And come on, how many ring outs can you have, I mean it is just too easy...
  
  The only good 
 thing is the tower floors, where the oppenents acutally put up a fight, and your health does not 
 replenish, which is actually a good thing, but the story mode play mixes you up when playing...
 
  
  Sadly I dont think you can buy skills, although you can choose them all when makes / customising 
 your character, and at the 'Finish" of all the time you spent doing him or her up, everything gets 
 stripped, whats the point of allowing you to add it, if it will just get stripped later... 
  
  Oh well, all in all, its not a bad game, but definatly one to rent and NOT buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 20, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  As the title says, this game delivers the best of the fighting genre as well as tweaks the already 
 butt-kicking gameplay. The developers must've honestly gone with the "Don't fix what isn't broken, 
 but perfect what already is perfection" work-ethic. Here's a quickie on this calibre sequel:
  
  GOOD: Customization. Diverse Roster. Customization. Plenty of Gameplay Modes. Customization. 
 Great gameplay for beginners, awesome gameplay for veterans. Must I say this again?! Oh yea, and 
 ONLINE!! And great graphics (though in my opinion not as good as VF5, but oh well) . Darth Vader 
 and the Apprentice are freaking badA**! Content can be expanded through the PSN network. 
  
  BAD: Every character looks like a cosplay character, so if you don't like anime, sorry. Sound 
 is completely recycled from previous installments. No tag team mode! No camera/video function. 
 If you don't have online, the game can get rather boring after only a couple days 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeedMoreMoney
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This is almost a perfect fighting game but the story is way too short because I want a longer and 
 more understanding ending and game. But there are modes to make it up. I love to make my own person 
 because I can express my self online and editing other people so I can make them stronger. I like 
 how we can play online now but no team battles. I mostly wish that Yoda and Dark Vader can fight 
 each other. I would recommend this game to other people who love fighting games! This game is better 
 than a Naruto or DBZ fighting game! But the computers in story and arcade are too easy for me. 
 I like how you can put on different armor, weapons, and skills to make your person stronger. If 
 you don't have the game, BUY IT! You are missing a great or the best fighting game ever! There 
 are lots of things to do offline and online! So I would be playing this for like ever and I will 
 keep this forever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SerakX
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  In one sentence: One hell of a game
  
  To start off, I'd like to give a general overview:
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  Ever wanted to 
 take on a seemingly impossible opponent, and walk out alive? Ever wanted to match your defensive, 
 combo-memorizing, counter-strike fighting style against your button-mashing buddies and win for 
 once? Both of these things I wanted and both of these things I got. The fighting is good for almost 
 anyone, from beginner to the game's coveted title of "Edge Master", being it's highest difficulty. 
 Play this game and you will find an incredibly deep fighter with tons of options for you to weigh, 
 throw out, and decide upon in the split-second environment of weapon-based combat. Am I saying 
 the game isn't without it's cheap moves? No. Super-Fast characters like Maxi are insanely difficult 
 to fight against without an equally fast character such as Talim unless you've completely mastered 
 one of the slower characters such as Siegfried and Nightmare. But at the same time the existance 
 of such issues does not make the game any less enjoyable, and may simply seem like another challenge 
 for a truly determined player. It also adds in interesting moves like Critical Finishers which 
 instantly end a match in the user's favor is successfully executed, a feat accomplished only by 
 the elite or the extremely lucky.
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Have you SEEN this thing in HD? No? So what! It looks amazing, the animations are smooth, and the 
 only real oddities in it's presentation is that Talim can juggle Rock with her two tiny Elbow Blades. 
 Beyond that the stages are simply beautiful, and you may find yourself more distracted with the 
 games presentation than the beautiful Critical Finish move just preformed on you, thus ending the 
 battle in your opponents favor.
  
  Soundtrack - 10/10
  
  You simply cannot complain about the soundtrack in this game. Why? Aside from the fact that it's 
 immensly good you can simply replace it with your own music if you want! Not much to complain about 
 there, am I right?
  
  Online - 8/10
  
  This game truly shines with it's online. You will find that lag is limited only to split-second 
 time lapses in the most severe cases, but even so it can prove deadly when fighting against a master 
 fighter. But it sadly is just that, purely online fighting. There is no trading of Custom Characters 
 so you can enjoy fighting against your friend's monstorous creations even when they aren't on. 
 But ultimately you'll find a satisfying fight online, whether you win or lose.
  
  Character Creation - 8.5/10
  
  Truly surprised to find out exactly how far this spans. Not 
 only can you create your own fighters but you can nearly completely re-design main and bonus characters, 
 outside of Vader and the Apprentice sadly. But you are also limited to picking the exact moveset 
 of main game fighters, but with your own dash of uniqueness created by choosing Alignment (Good 
 or Evil) , Armor (Light or Heavy) , and Skill Type (Too many to list) . There are also other "Skills" 
 that give your character varying attributes such as restorative health. To try to alleviate some 
 of this, the developers made each style levelable, adding to the amount of skills available for 
 use.
  
  Now to my specifics likes and dislikes:
  
  Personally? Tower of Lost Souls is nuts. Ascend fifty floors of tag-team mayhem only to climb back 
 down, earning gold and various other prizes along the way. But fear not! For if you attain 30 Honors (A 
 great system that adds a feeling of accomplishment to the game) you will unlock all of the character 
 creation equipment. And now you can actually duel against the computer in versus mode! WHOO!
  
  Anyway, on a more serious note I find the highest difficulty to be extremely hard yet at the 
 same time not over-whelming. It will present a challenge without frustrating you endlessly, as 
 cheap AI has been known to do. Ultimately, it's a great fighting game even if you aren't a fan 
 of Soul Calibur or fighting games in general, at least give it a rent if not a buy. It's a great 
 game that will keep you coming back for more and more, only to find even more challenges and tasks 
 awaiting you. And at the last minute, Vader and the Apprentice are great additions, though the 
 Apprentice is a little over-powered in my opinion. Great fighters if you really want to test out 
 your skill, though a little odd they don't just cut through metal swords.... Bah! It's a game, who 
 cares?
  
  Good luck and I'll see you on the net. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Contrabot
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 2, 2008 6:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off Soulcalibur 4 was a totally awesome game. Most of the characters were amazing, Sadly 
 Darth Vader was pretty lacking in pretty much anything. found the only reason i played him was 
 to Unlock The Apprentice who out does Vader in pretty much every way. Then i get to the story mode 
 which was pretty poor 5 or 6 battles long with no real story driving them to really make you wanna 
 finish. the Next Mode was Tower of Lost Souls.. get to the top go back down fighting a bunch of 
 randomly generated characters and do so goal during the level to unlock more things to add to your 
 own created character, Pretty entertaining makes making your character alot better and with almost 
 endless creations. 
  
  Next we get to the Multi-player which they finally added which makes the replay value of the game 
 so much higher then it would of been. the matches are easy to find and hook up with Virtual no 
 play when i play on the Playstation Network. i havent gotten myself into the ranked stuff yet cause 
 im afarid of the hardcore player beating me flawlessly every math but non rated is fun enough for 
 the not so highly skilled players. With the character creation makes the online every better cause 
 you feel happy about seeign your creation coming to life to fight someone eles! The only problem 
 i had with the editor was they i couldnt make my own Sith lord/Jedi Knight cause Darth Vader and 
 The Apprentice's fighting styles were not avaiable to choose from. 
  
  To wrap it all up Soulcalibur 4 is a fresh new Way to bring the game back to like with its amazing 
 beautiful visuals and the fast paced fighting with a few new extra things that you have come to 
 love from the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Riverspirit
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 1:54 pm PT
Review:  To say it is difficult to critique a game as expected as Soul Calibur IV, would, indeed, not be 
 a modest answer. For the game itself, has been raised to stardom, before it even reached the shelves 
 for our own consumption. But, with a fortunate turn, it seems the game has reached the expectations 
 of many, and to some, even surpassed. It has kept the simplicity to allow beginner's to dive in 
 right away, while letting those that are veterans, to swim the depths that the game will offer.
 
  
  Let it begin, with the online play, as it being the most anticipated adjustment to the series, 
 it has proved to work well, and be efficient. And of course, like all online play games, the connection 
 and the speed of play and set-up, varies by individual. 
  
  It is though, in the gameplay, that a fighting game, will show it's true colors. All other aspects, 
 must be up to par, with the standards of the gameplay, for it is in how the game fights, and handles, 
 that it can be most reviewed. Soul Calibur IV keeps up with it's high standard of control, and 
 ease. To some, it may be too simple and too easy for those that are just joining the weapon revolution, 
 to jump into to, and simply "button mash" their way to victory. But for others, this has always 
 been a standing plus for the entire series. The gameplay has indeed improved slightly, with the 
 hits being more solid and precise, and the movement, more flowing in it's execution. Overall, the 
 gameplay itself, has become what was expected, well rounded, and well balanced.
  
  The modes are simple and fun, "tower of Souls" will keep one entertained for hours on end, while 
 trying to ascend, or even descend, to fight foes and test your skills. While "Arcade" is like the 
 arcade version of the game, where upon 8 levels will appear before your character, and you must 
 defeat each one to win. And as such, "Character Creation" an almost necessity with today's generation 
 of fighting games, has been simplified, but allowed more depth with what is presented. One can 
 create a character, with more armor and accessories to choose from, but the fighting style is only 
 based on one of the standard characters. Indeed, to some, this may come as a positive adjustment, 
 while to others, it does not allow enough space to be creative.
  
  The graphics seem to be detailed with a pencil, a certainly large improvement, but, the cost of 
 the more detailed graphics, the amount of cut scenes were indeed cut down drastically, as the "Story" 
 mode, is shortened to only 5 levels, and cut scenes are repeated and over used at times. And yet, 
 many too times, the fights are too easy on the "normal" setting, veterans will often find themselves 
 having to adjust to "hard" after a couple of hours, to get a real kick from the games computer 
 characters. 
  
  Soul Calibur IV has proven worthy to lead the series into the next generation of games, hopefully 
 allowing for mistakes to fixed, and positives to be enhanced in the future games. It has a sense 
 of balance to it, while lacking some luster to it's display of characters, the introduction of 
 the "Star Wars" characters, along with other miscellaneous characters, give it a bit of shine. 
 
  
  Whether it is worth the buy, is dependent on the individual, it's positives though, will outshine 
 the negatives in most, albeit the nit-picker will find the negative's to become overwhelmingly 
 repetitive. And as such, it is worth a rent, if not a buy. Try out this game, you will probably 
 not be disappointed with it's high-end graphics and gameplay, and it's depth and ease of options, 
 it surely is worthy of being called Soul Calibur IV., 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KamuiFei
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 8:31 pm PT
Review:  When compared to other Soulcalibur games, this one doesn't stand out as much as the original or 
 maybe even the second one. Having Darth Vader, his Secret Apprentice, (and maybe Yoda, eventually) 
 in the SC universe is a nice twist to the tale. 
  
  Gameplay is roughly the same, as one would expect. Not like thats a bad thing, SC was always noted 
 for excellent gameplay mechanics. The new skill features and custom weapons for your character 
 adds the gameplay aspect. Create a character is much like the last SC, except any and all equipment, 
 weapons and fighting style affects your character's stats. Only problem I have with the new Create 
 a Character is that you can't use The Apprentice or Vader's fighting style. Or use equipment from 
 original characters' costumes. 
  
  Graphics are great. In 720p, SC4 is very beautiful to watch. Characters are very detailed and unique. 
 Environments, collateral damage and backgrounds and the moves' special effects all flesh out the 
 overall look.
  
  Sound and music as always in a Soul Calibur game is vibrant and epic. Hopefully, they will eventually 
 allow our own music stored on HDD to be used as stage music, both offline and online.
  
  Online is smooth and lag-free for now (if the host and other player have a good connection) . Unfortunately, 
 it is sometimes tedious to find a single match, because sessions only hold four players and hosts 
 with bad connections time out thus booting you from the session to find another. Your best bet 
 is to invite friends and enjoy.
  
  Story: This is where SC4 is hurtin... Half the "story" mode is fighting non story characters instead 
 of the original SC characters, which are randomly generated Create a Character bots. Namco Bandai 
 got lazy here. Every playable character had much more potential for a more thorough, deeper storyline, 
 even in-between battles and stages using cutscenes instead of just jumping to the next stage without 
 explanation on how he/she got there. Only part of a fighter's story that seemed drawn out was at 
 the very end, and it was minimal at best. Story mode was very disappointing, in my opinion.
  
  Overall, I feel like SC4, although very fun and enjoyable, it could've been much more, seeing 
 as it is the "next gen" Soulcalibur. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Asagea_888
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  The fourth time is definately a charm for the Soul Calibur franchise. Better still, the series 
 has been taken to an entirely new level for both the 360 and the PS3. 
  
  From the moment you play the game, you'll be instantly impressed by the graphics. The lighting 
 effects are dead-on and the character models are richly detailed in clothing and facial expressions. 
 Nightmare never looked so menacing on a next-gen platform -- I think Soul Calibur IV truly did him 
 justice. In high-definition, you can almost swear the fighters will leap right out of the plasma. 
 I don't have an HDTV yet, so I'm playing this game on a standard TV, and it still looks great if 
 you can ignore the black bars on the top and bottom of the screen. 
  
  The gameplay itself has been tweaked with new features. The Critical Finishes are extremely devastating 
 to opponents who like to consistently guard attacks. You'll encounter a lot of that when you're 
 playing against the Computer, but at least you'll have an open window for grinding their armor 
 platings into pixie dust before delivering them to the Hereafter with a well placed Critical Finisher. 
 And when the armor shatters, it reverberates into a tremendous shattering sound that is pleasing 
 to the ears.
  
  I was very surprised by the inclusion of Darth Vader, Yoda and the Apprentice as playable characters 
 in SCIV. But then I remembered Namco-Bandai did the same thing several years ago with SCII -- using 
 Link from the Zelda series, Spawn and Heihachi for individual platforms. I have the PS3 version 
 of SCIV because I don't own a 360, so I can only vouch for Darth Vader and the Apprentice. They 
 both play very well and fight in a manner true to their Star Wars roots -- even though the Apprentice 
 can fight like an untamed tiger. He provides an excellent challenge, but don't be discouraged if 
 you have trouble defeating him. I've struggled against the Apprentice, even with some of my favorite 
 fighters -- like Sophitia, Taki and Kilik. It takes time, a bit of effort and some strategy, but 
 eventually, you'll have him in the palm of your hand. And playing him is a lot more fun than challenging 
 him. 
  
  The Star Wars guest characters aren't the only new faces you'll see in the game. I really like 
 the characters that were created by top manga and anime artists. And Hilde is a good character, 
 too -- I like how she can use a spear and a short sword both at the same time.
  
  The Character Creation Mode is a lot of fun to use, even if it's a little restrictive. You can 
 model a character after an existing Soul Calibur template, alter his or her appearance and dress 
 them up in armor and weapons. And, you can make upwards up to 50 original warriors! It differs 
 a little bit from the CAS mode in SCIII because you have to take into consideration that certain 
 armor and weapons will have an effect on your character's stats. For example, some armor pieces 
 increase HP yet lower Weapon skill and defense, and so forth. If it's your wish to create a powerful 
 character for Special Versus and/or Tower of Souls modes, you might have to deal with your warrior 
 not looking exactly how you want them to look. However, many of the armor and weapon selections 
 look fantastic, so chances are you'll end up with a good-looking, competent fighter anyhow. And, 
 if creating a soul from the ground up isn't your thing, you can always modify the existing SCIV 
 cast to your liking.
  
  The Story mode has always been one of the more appealing factors of a SC game. SCIV's Story Mode 
 is somewhat short in length compared to the other games in the franchise -- only five chapters that 
 one can beat in about 10 or 15 minutes. I do like how you can fight multiple opponents, and switch 
 between characters at certain points. I had hoped that the developers would have fleshed this out 
 a bit more. To its credit, the sheer amount of characters makes up for this to some degree.
  
  The Tower of Souls mode is perhaps one of the most challenging modes ever in a SC game. You 
 are tasked with ascending a 60 or 70 floor tower using special rules, or descending deep into the 
 depths in an seemingly endless survival mode. An interesting twist to the TOS mode is after you 
 clear floors for the first time, you can go back again and fulfill a certain requirement that will 
 earn you a treasure chest containing armor pieces. The game provides you with a clue as to how 
 to go about earning the achievement. Some clues are almost straightforward -- others take some time 
 to figure out. But the rewards are worth the trouble.
  
  SCIV can be played online for the first time. Even better, you can choose to play as your customized 
 character with the special rules, so they will definately make for some interesting and engaging 
 online battles. And, of course, no Soul Calibur game would be complete without an Arcade Mode. 
 Eight fights, two out of three rounds. The difficulty has been toned down a bit from SCIII, which 
 was insanely hard. The only true challenge is the Apprentice, but the other opponents provide a 
 good enough steel-trading trist that isn't insanely difficult, but not stupidly easy either.
  
  SCIV is a great addition to any library. They claim this is the final chapter of the series, 
 but I think fans such as myself deserve a say in that. So long as the soul still burns, I think 
 the story and the franchise will continue on in some form or another. If you liked Soul Calibur, 
 you owe it to yourself to give the fourth chapter of "the Tale of Souls and Swords" your attention.
 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: usmc-seibert
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:34 pm PT
Review:  But this game is quite fun. It wasnt to difficult to learn the moves of most characters. The story 
 mode is only 5 stages, which is short. But if you play every character through it, it will take 
 a while. The Towers of Lost Souls is challenging in certain parts and real easy in others. But 
 the only complain I have right now is that on the PS3 the online gaming isnt the greatest. Trying 
 to select a custom game can take a couple of minutes before you will find someone to fight, because 
 in some of the games, they are already in session by other players. So when you click on it, it 
 says game is full or something like that, and sends you back to the menu screen to where you have 
 to do it all over again. And sometimes, but not to often the games are laggy. But all in all this 
 game is pretty solid and there is alot of stuff to unlock. But the cool thing is that you get to 
 play as your customized character in online mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ver_Guitarman
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 6:08 pm PT
Review:  This is my first review, so I'll make it quite detailed, with the five things I consider important 
 on a fighting game at this times.
  
  Gameplay: The good, old Soul Calibur Gameplay. The Force Gauge was a nice addition for the Guests. 
 Sometimes, it does get a little difficult for the casual player to get a grip on a Top Level Fight. 
 7.5/10
  Story: Nice adding stories for all characters, but it feels a little forced upon.
  8.0/10
  Graphics: Eight Words: What you would expect of a PS3 Game. 8.5/10
  Characters: Complicated 
 to tell. New characters, the oldies, the Honored Star Wars Guests... Nice. At least their styles 
 are not so overused like a game I know *coughbrawlcough* 9.0
  Difficulty: Now this is something I don't understand. I started playing today, so maybe this review 
 wouldn't be ok, but... come on! I lost about 60 times with the Apprentice on Arcade! You might 
 not be ok with this, but I give the Difficulty a 7.0.
  
  Gameplay -- 7.5
  Story -- 8.0
  Graphics -- 8.5
  Characters -- 9.0
  Difficulty -- 7.0
  
  Overall: 8.0
  In the end, SoulCalibur 
 is a good game, perhaps not for all players, but this is a great sequel.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Prithwiraj
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 10:31 am PT
Review:  Had pre-ordered mine and got it yesterday, have been playing ti ever since... I was kinda surprised 
 to see how short the single player part is, well, there is the twoe towers thing, but its just 
 like arcade, havent played it much, quite a few unlockable items there. For ppl who are new to 
 the SC universe, its never too late to start, not very complicated controls, but its not a typical 
 button smashing beat em up, does need some skill and tactics to get good at it.
  
  Also, i was kinda sad as the game din have many cut-scenes, like for each individual player, or 
 not enough back story, but all tht is mainly single player stuff.. the multiplayer in this game 
 is amazing, no conlose gaming experience is complete without a beat em up, and SC4 does a quite 
 a good job in tht genre. The new feature, Soul-Gauge is gr8, coz i hate blockng and ppl who block 
 all the time, increases the speed of gameplay quite a bit and plus the fatality style critical 
 finishes are quite awesome.
  
  The custom character section isnt really that gr8, i mean all you can do is make a player who plays 
 exactly like one of the default players, just maybe with different looks, weapons and the "skills" 
 which arent really moves, but just sort of a "buff" your player gets. Old fans will find most of 
 the characters back and they are looking gr8 (esp Ivy.. oohhh mama) and new players will find the 
 game easy to learn and get hooked on to.
  
  All in all a good beat em up but cld have been better esp in the single player and the custom character 
 section, otherwise the game is spot on and i dun regret buying it... Hope this helps 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dragoon_Of_Dark
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  One of the best games i have played on the PS3 It is hard to stop playing when you start with all 
 of the stuff in it. but the game dose have some down sides for me but not enough to make it any 
 lower then a ten for me. i both like and hate the fact that they made the story mode shorter with 
 only five battles per story but at the same time i like it becasue its fast to beat a characters 
 story mode i also like the new character creator mode i find it easyer to use becasue in SoulCalibur 
 3 you had to go to the shop and buy your weapons and gear but in this game you can buy it from 
 the list but the one down side to the character creater is that they took out the custom weapons 
 like the lance, knife and bomb, waveblades, and all the rest of the weapons now you pick from one 
 of the main characters weapons not including darth vader his student and the bounes characters.
 
  
  
  another good thing done to Soul Calibur 4 is you can give skills to your characters is the game 
 the can stop a ring out or poison your oponent so you do have to think abit when doing this but 
 i didn't like that the slowed one of my main chatacers to use Talim she use to be one of the fastest 
 characters with good attack but the slowed her down but you can put her speed up to what most players 
 of the series are use to in character creator 
  
  
  The visual in the game has to be one of the best i've seen on the play station three that i have 
 seen since it came out there is nothing wrong at all with is that i can see so far the only realy 
 problim i have seen in the visuals would be the some of the character weapons go threw them in 
 there end or start battle video
  
  
  a thing that was done almost perfect on SC4 was the Online i ahve played it and there is almost 
 no lag the only lag that i saw was at the end of a battle when it says K. O. and it just froze for 
 a sec so there is no problimes with the online play so i would suggest it to anyone you can use 
 it. it is one of the funnest thing in the game
  
  
  the last thing i want to talk about its the areanas and characters i would say that all the arenas 
 are great and i like that they brought some of the arenas from old games back but they could have 
 put a few more in the game and for the characters since the was said to be the last battle they 
 should have brought back some of the other characters from soul Calibur Soul Edge ect like edge 
 Master would have been a good character to put in and the didn't put in a all weapon character 
 this time they could have kept olcodan or brought back sherade or necreid but over all the game 
 is perfect for use i wouls have gave the game a 9.8 but since i can't i'll give it a 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 1, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  For many years there has been some great fighting games over the years like Tekken or Dead or Alive 
 or even Virtua Fighter series. Soul Calibur has once again made anathor title but on the PS3 and 
 360. After playing Soul Calibur for a good couple of hours there some good things about it and 
 some bad thinsg which should have been inproved. Story isn't much to most charcters who ever you 
 play it's the same thing your fighting a good person at the end of the story or a bad person or 
 the main villian who is upsessed with the two swords Soul Calibur and Soul Edge.
  
  Gameplay= If you have played Soul Calibur beofre you'll reconise most moves from most of the charcters, 
 Darth Vader attacks are heavey moves like Nightmare and Signet. The Apprentice's moves are crazy 
 and can do some major damge, Vader's and The Apprentice there story takes place between Star Wars 
 episode 3 and 4 but why would Namco have Star War charcters in Soul Calibur? I thought Kratos from 
 God of War would be in Soul Calibur or atleast bring back Klonoa which most Namco fans have forgotten 
 by now.
  The down side is you can't play as Yoda because he's on the 360 not on PS3 but by the time it gets 
 to christmas or somwhere like that they'll be a download on the PS network to download Yoda sooner 
 or later. The cleverest thing about Soul Calibur 4 is you can play online with your friends or 
 be on top of the ranks on the leaderboard's. The only thing what is disapointing is that story 
 is really short only 5 stages and won't last very long to beat. 
  
  Graphics and Sound= The graphics do look inpressive for a next gen game, enviroments look well 
 detailed. But comparing from the 360 version you'll notice the details on both games either on 
 Youtube or mad enough to by it on 360 and PS3 just to play Vader and Yoda There is one arena you'll 
 reconise from one of the Star Wars movies and the music like the Imperial March or the Main Title 
 theme. There are some new charcters which were drawen by several Manga Artist in Japan if your 
 into Japanese Anime/Manga you may reconise some of the charcters which you might have heard of. 
 Sounding doesn't make a different from the last game but Vader's voice is from episode 3 not the 
 old episodes which would sound better in Soul Calibur 4. You can customise your own charcter again 
 like on Soul Calibur 3 you can make your own fighter a good person or a bad person but try and 
 be creative in making a fighter some people have already tried making reconisable charcters like 
 Cloud or Mario which is cool I'd tried making Terra from KH2 Final Mix and Birth By Sleep not almost 
 perfect but really cool.
  
  Overall= May not be the best in the series but it has some flaws mostly Online is a big inprovment. 
 For those who want to play online agasint's your friends or family or be the best fighter in the 
 world but the odds on being on top of the ranks is a 100 to 1 you'll be beaten down by hardcore 
 players online if your tried being on top of the ranks. There are more things to unlock on other 
 modes in Arcade, Story or Survial where you can unlock more stages and clothing for customising 
 your charcters. Most fans will enjoy playing as Darth Vader but some of you would be disapointed 
 on Story mode and not much of a story to most charcters and most endings are abit lame. It does 
 not make a different to which version you buy there will be a downloadable content allowing you 
 to play as Yoda on the PS3 or unless Namco bring more charcters into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andy9Beans
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 12:53 am PT
Review:  SCIV, like the rest of the series, is a solid beat'em up with outstanding graphics, smooth gameplay 
 and an intuitive control system.
  
  The Soul Calibur series have always been well balanced and allow novices to pick up the game easily 
 whilst providing enough depth for advanced players to really get to grips with individual characters. 
 I started off as a button basher years back on the Dreamcast and am now a competent fighter, and 
 each incarnation have always kept me hooked regardless of my skill level.
  
  SCIV is no exception to this universal appeal. My friend, who hates consoles, joined me for a few 
 games and ended up hogging it for ages; he really got into the control system and even blocked 
 a few hits (more than I did for years lol) .
  
  It's early days yet and I'm not a complete gaming freak, so I've only put away three hours or so 
 of play at this point. In these first few hours I've been really impressed... but I'll keep you 
 posted as time rolls on :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finalcross
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:11 pm PT
Review:  When it comes to fighting games, there seems to be three types of categories. The first is your 
 over-the-top fighters like Street Fighter or Mortal Kombat which rely on special attacks with out-of-this 
 world characters. The second category is the complete opposite with realistic actions and move-sets 
 that use real fighting techiques, like Virtua Fighter. The third category is your fighting with 
 weapons, and the game that best fits that group has been for many years the Soul series of games.
 
  
  Soulcalibur for years has been among the best known and probably easiest to pick up fighting games 
 around. You have your selection of characters, each with a weapon, and you duke it out. Your basic 
 moves are the horizontal or vertical slash, kick or grab. Unlike other fighting games where you 
 press back to block, here you press one of the face buttons. To do grabs or other special moves, 
 you'll have to combine face buttons, but for the most part, it's very easy to learn, but will take 
 time to master.
  
  The Soulcalibur games in the past have contained your basic arcade mode and a story based mode. 
 Soulcalibur IV continues this, but the story mode this time around is extremely short, with only 
 5 stages. In previous versions you would have spent a lot of time in this mode, but this time, 
 it takes the back seat to the other modes and can be completed in about 10 minutes. The two modes 
 which you'll spend the most time with are the Tower of Lost Souls and the Character Creator. 
 
  
  In Tower of Lost Souls, you take a number of characters (depending on the level) and travel either 
 up or down a 'Tower' of enemies. The motr levels you go up, the extra in-game money you receive 
 and bonus stuff you'll unlock. This is a great and extremely challenging mode since as you progress 
 further up or down (depending on the mode you select) the characters get much stronger and challenging. 
 You will get frustrated, but it is a strong addition to the game. As you get further in the game, 
 you will unlock points/money to use in the other solid mode, Character Creator.
  
  Soulcalibur IV gives you the ability to essentially create a character from scratch. You'll take 
 a template and then you can adjust just about anything from armour, weapons and abilities which 
 will affect your character that can be used in various modes, including online. There are already 
 a plethora of interesting characters created by people that include famous fighters from other 
 games and even a few super-heroes (check out YouTube for examples) . At the same time, you can adjust 
 characters already available and unlock characters that are not available from the start.
  
  Just because there is a Character Creator option, does not mean that the selection of available 
 characters is weak. In fact, it's quite the opposite. All the characters, both returning and new, 
 work really well. The only down-side to the characters is the bonus characters: Yoda, Vader and 
 The Apprentice. Yoda just seems out of place, Vader is ok, but nothing rspecial while The Apprentice 
 seems a bit too powerful for his own good. All three look great, but it's better to stick to the 
 regular cast when playing either against the computer or with your friends.
  
  The graphics in the game are great but nothing absolutely incredible. The character models work 
 well and so do the environments, as you would expect with a Namco title. A nice addition to the 
 game is that character armour deteriorates as you fight. If your character attacks a certain part 
 of the body (head, torso or legs) repeatedly, your opponent will lose that part of armour. This 
 is a great little addition since you can essentially turn your opponent completely 'nude' and dish 
 out massive damage
  The game's sound is also great but I preferred to play the game with the Japanese voiceovers rather 
 than the English ones. This is ok, except for the fact that if you play with either of the two 
 bonus characters (Vader/Yoda and the Apprentice) , they don't speak in their normal language. The 
 game's famous Voice-over is still there and continues to narrate the game as you play. The in-game 
 music is also still quite memorable and fits with the levels (meaning the Star Wars levels have 
 famous Star Wars songs when playing in them) .
  
  Soulcalibur moves into the world of online fighting and thanks to the Character Creator, you can 
 really have some interesting fights. Because of that fact, you might not actually fight against 
 one of the main characters. The lag is hit-or-miss but for the most part, you'll be able to play 
 some decent matches, unless you have a 'drop' with the person you are playing against.
  
  It is a bit of a disappointment that the Story mode was reduced, but thanks to the Tower of Lost 
 Souls, Character Creator and Online play, there is enough use in this game that you will be spending 
 a lot of time with it. You'll want to play the other options because of what it will unlock with 
 the Character Creators. 
  Thanks to the to the easy to learn controls, new players in the series will not take too long to 
 get used to the controls and at the same time, veterans will have a lot options to master the game, 
 giving it that great balance for all. I can easily recommend this Fantastic game and suggest if 
 you have even the slightest interest in fighting games that you pick this up. With small selection 
 of fighting games available right now, you will be playing this until the next Mortal Kombat or 
 Street Fighter IV hits the streets and that won't be for at least another few months. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blank-DIsk
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:39 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing the Soul Calibur series since Soul Blade on PSX. I bought a Dreamcast specifically 
 for Soul Calibur, and in my opinion, it's still the best one . This installment isn't nearly as 
 bad as SC2 or 3, but still lacks any real improvement on the formula. Everything feels and controls 
 jsut like it always has, but it's not a good thing. It feels very stale. 
  
  Arcade mode is a challenge, while Story mode is a joke. Each character's end video is mostly bland 
 and pointless. 
  
  Darth Vader is cool, and has awesome moves, but is SLOW. His moves arent' very complicated, so 
 pulling off big force moves is a cinche, provided your opponent is across the screen. Otherwise, 
 you'll be interrupted in a flash. The Apprentice is pretty good. He lacks the appeal of Vader, 
 but is much faster.
  
  My chief complaint about the basic gameplay is that it takes for-EVER to restart a match. You'll 
 grind your X button to dust before it asks you to retry. Also, While Arcade modes ahs fast load 
 times if you choose to install the game, everything else is still balls slow. 
  
  Online is good, but getting into a game is frustrating. If you fail to connect to one game in the 
 list, the system restarts the search, instead of letting you pick another game on the list.
  
  Overall it's okay, but I kinda wish I had rented it. It's about 3 days worth of excitement. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoreoVII
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  It's a Soul Caliber game plan and simple. Some new characters, weapons, clothes, moves, stages. 
 Nothing really new. You already know all of the new stuff by the time you read this.
  
  After playing it for a day straight I was already getting tired of it. I was thinking of just going 
 back to SC3 but then I played some online RANKED matches and boy it started getting good. First 
 off, you can take your own character (you know, the one you spent hours making with huge boobs 
 and the like) into the online arena and go at it. if you manage to win an online match you get 
 experience points for leveling your record, money, style level ups. Honor. and more. It gives a 
 huge incentive too keep you hooked online for a while. I only rented it because for some reason 
 these games can only entertain for so long. (How I miss the PS2 Era.)
  
  anywayz
  
  
  this is a good game to rent for ONLINE only. Unless you like everthing else just get SC3. 
  
 
  the only problem i have with this game is that if your level 1 and you beat someone who is like 
 level 25 they will shut off their PS3 right when you win so it dosent show that you did anything. 
 This happened two times already. So now i do it too lol.
  
  Buttin Mashers have fun. (I pwn noobs) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV has been highly anticipated by, not only me, but many other gamers. But does it live 
 up to the hype? Let's see if I think it does...
  
  Well the story goes like the DOA games. You choose a character and go through a short story then 
 take ona tough boss fight. But from what I remember the DOA's characters story's wasn't entirely 
 interesting, but these story are put together pretty well. Especially The Apprentice's story, you 
 have to buy this game just to see how his short story end's. But now for the ton's of other stuff. Well 
 there is a tower you can ascend and the enemies get tougher and tougher, but when you conquer it 
 you can then descend it and take on hordes of enemies. But the tutorial really tries to be as helpful 
 as it can, but the controls are really complex so it is extremely tough to master. I mean, I know 
 it's a fighting game so the controls will be tough, but this game takes it to far (Although it looks 
 like I'm the only one that thinks this.) . That does make it tougher but it also makes it more frusterating. And 
 then there is the Arcade mode ,which was really tough to me. It thought the final two fights was 
 really tough. And, FYI, that is the way you unlock The Apprentice. Next to talk about is the Character 
 Creation. It is probably the most in depth and interesting Character Creation's. You can chose from 
 loads of armor's, some you have to buy and some you have to unlock. You can also choose your fighting 
 styles, Gender, and choose if you are Good or Evil. So now I want to talk about the the big new addition 
 to this game, Darth Vader! Since I bought the PS3 version I can't review Yoda but maybe when he is 
 realesed as DLC I will blog about my impressions. But now for some Darth Vader action. They done 
 great. He doesn't feel like he can destroy everybody and he doesn't feel like he can get the crap 
 beat out of him everytime. The voice over's was great for all characters not just for Vader's character. The 
 graphics are stunnign and I have yet to find a single frame rate drops. But just stare at the background 
 it looks amazing. You can see Elephants walking and on some other Venues you'll see beautiful stars, wonderful 
 water, wonderful water and so much more stuff.
  
  Multiplayer: This is one of the rare multiplayer's where it's kinda fun to lose, cause your gonna 
 be losing a lot. My ranked match record is 4-22. Now I'm not saying your gonna suck as bad as me 
 but still, so many people are gonna kick your ass. But I like how they made it to where you can wait 
 in a party of four of your friends and it keeps track of your record in that party. Although there 
 is only one type of game mode, it is still extremly addicting. One important thing in multiplayer 
 games is the lag factor. I have played over 50 ranked/player matches and I have expreianced very 
 little lag.
  
  Replay value: Well the tower is extremely fun to play and then when you beat it, you can just descend 
 it and do it all over again. The multiplayer is another thing that'll keep you playing for weeks. There 
 is also a lot more extras in the Museum that'll make you want them all!
  
  End It! All-in-all this game is a definate buy for any fan of the series or pretty much any fighting 
 game fan. With a addicting multiplayer and a great single player, this game is great 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 31, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  I pre-purchased Soul Calibur IV in June, hoping it would be at least as goos as it predecessors. 
 I've played Soul Blade and many of the characters were still going to be in this release, so I 
 took the chance.
  On July 29, 2008, I sat by window anxiously waiting for UPS to show up and lo and behold at 11:07 
 it did, I ran to meet the UPS driver like he was a long lost lover, and I was happy as child on 
 Christmas morning.
  I dove right into the game, not realizing I had a key chain that also came with the game, I discovered 
 several hours later.
  The game-play had that old familiar feel to it, if you played it in the past you should have no 
 problem picking it up and doing some damage. The characters looks and animation are remarkable 
 as well as the graphics. The different modes offer some depth to the game, but as I have read the 
 story mode was disappointing to most, but not to me. The Tower mode makes up for that 10 fold and 
 is not as easy as the Story mode either. The ability to not only customize the default character, 
 but to actually create a character from scratch is an awesome feature not typically found in fighting 
 games of this genre. You will probably spend more time customizing and creating new characters 
 than fighting. I had my girlfriend come over and play and she spent 40 minutes creating and customizing 
 her character, which took me less than a minute to beat, LMAO. Anyone ca plat this game it is easy 
 to pick up, and once you hae one characters moves down you can just about play all of them. Darth 
 Vader is a cool character, though I wish his kicking skills were a little better, but we still 
 will rule the galaxy with an iron fist.
  Needlessly to say, I am very happy with my purchase, the key chain is kind of crappy, but what 
 do you expect, it was free. 
  Buy it, if you are truly a fan and if you are just getting on the wagon, the learning curve is 
 not steep at all. ENJOY!!!
  8) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: earlaps
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:34 am PT
Review:  I should first say that I am a casual gamer who cheats his creditors out of an hour or two from 
 time to time to play video games. I am not a hardcore anything. I have followed the SC series from 
 PS 1 days and I am disappointed at the lack of evolution of the game. On PS 3 I expect better.
 
  The absence of interesting single player modes is a joke. The character selection is poor and 
 the problems with the game remain. I have always thought that SC looks like a bunch of stage hands 
 playing with the props after the director and actors have gone home. If you have intimidating weapons 
 that have no power that = frustration not fun. I know all about enchantment and fantasy, but weapons 
 that look powerful but are not is never going to make this game more than a gimmick game.
  The sex stuff is way out of hand. I will not mention the obvious, but I will say that training 
 12 year old boys that if you beat the crap out of a girl she will sit on the ground with her knees 
 up in the air revealing her panties and looking vurnerable is not a lesson I want to teach children 
 in this teen game. Don't get me started on the Star Wars characters. When I see DV he looks like 
 he wandered on to the wrong set, which is a good summary of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misterhumbug
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  Soul Calibur IV is one of those games that you can dive right in and kick some butt. It's very 
 button-mash friendly, but as you become more experienced and actually push buttons deliberately, 
 it rewards you with some pretty slick combo moves. Featuring a plethora of character choices, as 
 well as the ability to create your own characters from scratch, there is a lot of opportunity to 
 play with different weapon/attack styles and moves. The look of the game is phenomenal, with beautiful 
 character modeling (and some model-like characters) , and some truly breathtaking environments.
 
  
  There are several modes of play, all of which have their own kind of fun. The story mode is great, 
 though a bit too short, in my opinion. I like how the story mode brings you up to date on that 
 character's story, and gives you a glimpse at how each character's story arc ends. The Tower mode 
 is fun, too, but it's even more fun when a friend of your comes over and goes to town with you. 
 There are lots of opportunities to unlock all kinds of secret levels and weapons, and plenty of 
 playable characters to uncover, too.
  
  The game-play is well-designed, as well, and not nearly as difficult as some of the previous installments. 
 It's fairly intuitive and easy to pick up, and the opponent-AI is pretty clean, too. The controls 
 can get very precise, but doesn't force you to do so.
  
  Overall a great game, full of fun action and beautiful graphics, plenty of variety, and some amazing 
 environments. Oh, and Darth Vader kicks ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sohma2501
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  I have all the soul calibiur games and I still have soul blade to. I was really looking forward 
 to this game. in some ways sc3 was better, and thats not a good thing to me. the online play is horrible, the 
 game isnt out a week and it looks like we need a patch. the cas mode isnt as good as it could be. the 
 graphics are not even pushing the ps3 to its limits. the story seems to have falling apart-but few 
 play these games for the story anyway. the music is forgettable and the boobs are absurdly funny. the 
 "soul crush"move is a joke.
  
  with all that being said its still a good game, playing with a friend is great, building a cas is 
 still fun. the gameplay is still pretty good. I just think that the game could have been so much 
 more. I dont think that the namco-bandai merger was a good thing. namco has been doing some pretty 
 stupid things for a few years now. its just a shame that SCIV fell prey to namco stupidty. this truly 
 could have been a awesome game for both systems, namco just got lazy and greedy. hopefully namco 
 can fix whats wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kos1085
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 9:59 am PT
Review:  I have been playing Soul Calibur since the days of Soul Blade on PS1 so I picked up this game on 
 the Release date. Here are my thoughts on this game:
  
  First the combat: The combat in SC IV is great and more polished than in the previous entries in 
 the series. If you have played the series before, you will instantly be familiar with most of the 
 moves of returning characters. If you are new to the series, this game is easy to pick up on. 
 
  
  Second the modes: The one thing that I found this game to be lacking in a variety of modes both 
 online and offline. I always loved the journey mode from previous games and Namco did not include 
 it in this game. Instead they put in the Tower of Souls. I hope Namco is working on adding downloadable 
 modes but until then multiplayer is enough to keep me busy.
  I also thought that the story mode was entirely too short. It can be beaten be veteran players 
 in about eight to ten minutes.
  
  Third the online: Although I have experience lagging and a few connection drops, online is great 
 for this game and very challenging. The are only two drawbacks to the online. 1. Lack of team battle 
 mode 2. Stupid people who modulate their voice.
  
  Fourth the graphics: Best graphics I have seen in a fighting game yet. They did go a little to 
 far with the cleavage action on the girls but I am not complaining.
  
  The game is definitely worth getting because it one the best fighting games out there and it offers 
 many hours of online and offline play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeAngelo404
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 31, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  I just got this game yesterday and spent several hours with it offline to get a feel for a few 
 characters and level up some guys. Vader is off the charts, Mitsirugi is stronger than ever, and 
 the Apprentice is by far the best character on the game! That's a good thing when I am playing 
 friends offline but a terrible thing for online play. Everyone and their momma will be using him 
 online which will make for some bland gameplay at times. I like the customization options and power 
 boosts but the game does an awful if nonexistent job of explaining how the system works. I spent 
 half the evening customizing three characters because there is such a fine line between style and 
 power. My Maxi customized looks like a mini Voldo but he's strong as heck... and in order to get 
 your style level up, you'll have to play the game for a few hours with one cat and there aren't 
 enough modes to get you really excited to dive back in with the same guy. I do love the graphics, 
 sound, and speed of the game (I installed the game on my PS3 and the load times are like 3 seconds 
 or less) so I can get through quite a few matches fairly quickly. Overall, It's a great game but 
 that's mainly because there are so FEW fighting games on next-gen consoles, there really isn't 
 anything else to compare it to....... 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 31, 2008 5:10 am PT
Review:  This isn't the best Soul Calibur but it does make up for the third one. Almost all of your classic 
 stars are here with around 4 new ones & a bunch of created character look alikes. The PS3 has Darth 
 Vader & he is amazing. He has a force meter under his health for your force moves like a force 
 pull or a force choke. Now I enjoyed playing with Vader until I unlocked his Apprentice from the 
 new force unleashed game then I said "Vader who?" Fast moves, cool air combos & force powers that 
 are... Unleashed. I think he's also in the 360 version as well but with Vader together, the PS3 
 version was my pick. I got my hands on the game 2 weeks before street date so I did finished it 
 many times. The online wasn't ready so I couldn't try it out. The single player has arcade, story 
 & a tower battle that you fight your way to the top with two characters almost like Tekken tag 
 but not as cool. Once you fight to the top you can make your way back down. The story mode is quick. 
 I mean that my girlfriend can finish it in less than 15 min & she hasn't played since Soul Calibur 
 2. the tower is a nice touch with around 20 floors with no less than 4 fighters a floor but its 
 all about playing with another person. You can create your own characters or just edit any of the 
 regular ones. You can change there outfits, hair & wepons. The only bad side is that you can't 
 change Darth Vader or The Apprentice except there lightsabers but not the colors. If there's an 
 option you have to unlock to do that then I haven't got it yet. If you are a Soul Calibur fan & 
 you didn't like Soul Calibur 3 or it turned you off the series then 4 will get you back. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlOoDyDeAtH360
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 2:50 am PT
Review:  This is one amazing Soul Calibur game.
  
  Alot of stuff has been taken out, but in my opnion that made up for it all.
  
  The story mode 
 is really, really short this time around (only 5 stages) and the only time you learn anything about 
 why they are fighting, is at the begenning and at the ending cutscene, so thats a little letdown.
 
  
  Creating a characater is actually pretty good, and thats also how you buy characters (all of which 
 are 4,000 gold and yes, Vader is available from the start) There is also a good amount of bonus 
 characters in the game, that go along with the other 29 characters in the game (30 if Yoda is downloadable 
 content for the Playstation 3 version or if the needing a completed save from star wars: the force 
 unleashed is true)
  
  The graphics for the game are superb, they look amazing good in SD and HD (you cant go wrong playing 
 on either tv)
  
  there are also a good amount of unlockables in the Museum section which I think are pretty cool.
 
  
  I also like how the Playstation 3 version (dont know if the Xbox 360 version has them like this 
 as well, I still need to rent the Xbox 360 version) has the achievements from the Xbox 360 version 
 as honor's that you earn for doing the various things that they ask you to (and yes, they are the 
 exact same ones as the achievements on the Xbox 360 version, except there not trophies that will 
 get your level up like Superstardust HD, though hopefully Soul Calibur IV will get an update for 
 trophy support later on)
  
  The game has 4 single player modes:
  
  Story
  Tower of Lost Souls
  Arcade
  Training
  
  The game also features online multiplayer which 
 I havnt gotten around to doing yet (im working on getting everything unlocked first)
  
  The game also has an optional install size of 2652 MB which if you have the space go ahead and 
 do, I havnt personally played the game without the install but the install size is pretty small 
 comapared to games like Metal Gear Solid 4.
  
  If your a big Soul Calibur fan then you cant go wrong with getting this game. And, if your a newcomer 
 its also a good game to get ust to the series with.
  
  Personally, I think the game is worth buying and I bought the premium edition (which came with 
 extra CAS parts that you will only be able to get from the U. S limited edition and wont become 
 available later on on the PSN)
  
  I give this game a 9.5 because even though its a superb game, I really wish the story mode would 
 have been longer, much like Soul Calibur 2's single player, and again, if your a big Soul Calibur 
 fan or a newcomer this is a great game to pick up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budiy33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:22 pm PT
Review:  Soul Calibur 4 that coming at the end the july 2008 has absolutely best graphic fighting picture. 
 Yet it is short though, because I played under 5 hour and I already finish all the storyline. well 
 let's say that I enjoy the graphic and sound system but the story isn't good at all, worse than 
 tekken I say.
  I played the Plastation3 version of the game, so I'll wait what coming to the emty slot that remain. 
 Is it Yoda? well maybe.
  All the characters in soul calibur 3 are ground breaking graphic. But I don't play the Xbox 360 
 version since I didn't have the machine.
  It's worth waiting though. My expectation for the graphic is achieved but not the story.
  In 
 story mode we fight against several enemies character, luckily we also get accompany during some 
 scenario of the character that we use, but not all character has company, and here we are we play 
 solo against a team of enemies in four or five round. and that's it we finish the story of the 
 character we use. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skydancerofchao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:36 pm PT
Review:  I loved the previous games but hated that I sucked at them so much so I never played them much 
 with friends. I grew up with games like Street Fighter II, Eternal Champions, X-men vs. Street 
 Fighter and the like so I was never into the Tekken style fighters with more button presses required 
 to complete a move than should ever be called for in a video game. This game does away with a lot 
 of that. The basicly give you two "stances" per character and you perform moves from those stances 
 via commands not so far removed from the 2d classics I know and love. There are character without 
 the stance format, but even they are simple to use. 
  
  The story mode is VERY short, but they essentially have you fight the same amount of battles in 
 one as you can fight more than one person at a time (tag team) . Thats not nearly as hard as it sounds. 
 I actually find myself getting a lot of perfects in this game, which I never do in any fighter, 
 so that says something about the balance of the AI. They also removed the weird extra modes like 
 the strategy one in part 3, but there is a nice new mode in which you use custom characters to 
 fight your way through a slew of enemies in order to gain more of the secret items, characters, 
 etc.
  
  My summary is this: If you love fighters but found the previous installments of this series to 
 be a bit too difficult, stifled, or verbose, then this one will do a lot to appease any previous 
 frustration you may have had trying to come to grips with a kickass idea that was poorly executed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coold_steam
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  This is my first experinc with soul calibur i didnt play this game before and i know what i was 
 missing.
  
  first of all the most thing i like about this game is the characters and how you can create more 
 than one creaters ,its not changing the outfit but also changing your skills and the abilities.
 
  
  There are Three modes :
  
  1. Story
  2. Arcade
  3. tower 
  
  In story mode you play to know what the game is all about and you get gold as well 
  
  in Arcade 
 you will play to unlock hidden chracters but and level up your player.
  
  tower consist of tow part ascend and descend,
  in this mode you play more than one characters 
 and as you go on you will be able to unlock wepons and skills .
  
  the game play and graphics and great but and amazing ,every thing is nice and easy .but to be honest 
 there is nothing special about the graphics and they still could do better.
  
  sound is nice i like how the characters talk to each others and the back music is fantastic.
 
  
  Multiplayer and online mode the best thing in this game ,there is no lag or anything that can disturbs 
 you from having a fair game ,only one thing is missing Headset ,it will be nice to chat while playing 
 with your friends .
  
  any way we all waited for a 3D fighting game and this one can fill a big gap until we see another 
 3D game as good as this one or better.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: starscreem777
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 16, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me first say that I own Soul Calibur 2 and 3, so I am not new to the series. Needless to say 
 I was very excited when I heard Soul Calibur 4 was coming out. After playing through it all night 
 I feel I know enough about it now that I can write a detailed review.
  
  Lets get the easy stuff over with first.
  
  -Graphics: stunning with a few slight hiccups.
 
  
  -Story: Cheesy, badly written, and are mostly told through text at the beginning. Not new to the 
 series.
  
  -Combat: Solid and satisfying.
  
  -Armor actually has a point to it. It can be broken off as the Head, Torso, or Legs.
  
  Now 
 the nitty gritty.
  
  They have brought back the character creator from the last game. It has some neat improvements 
 such as the ability to alter the tone of your voice and adjust physique. Then there is the new 
 addition of having every piece you put on your character coming with stats. This is good because 
 you can put the best piece of everything on your character and be an unstoppable wrecking machine. 
 This is bad because it defeats the purpose of the character creator in the first place. Now you 
 can't make whatever you want. I tried making a male character who only had on a mask, boots, and 
 Voldo's undersuit. This caused his health to drop to 50%. One other good thing about the character 
 creator is when you make a character and level them up, it levels up the person who's weapon your 
 using. So you can change the character all you want, but as long as they are using the same characters 
 weapon, you won't have to start over.
  
  The bonus characters: The bonus characters are something they've been doing since the 2nd game. 
 I'm not sure about the 1st game since I've never played it. I bought it for the PS3 because I just 
 like playing online for free and being able to install the game and getting faster load times, 
 but since I got it for the PS3 the game also comes with Darth Vader. Darth is a pretty balanced 
 character, he does have an INCREDIBLY stupid story though. I'm told Yoda is just broken. Both versions 
 come with the Apprentice. This guy is insane. Not exactly broken, just overpowered as hell. In 
 order to unlock him you have to play arcade mode with Darth Vader. Every fight lasted around a 
 minute. There are 8 fights. Fight 6 was Sigfried (my favorite character) . He was a little tough 
 so the fight took 3 minutes. Then fight 7, the Apprentice. The fight took 20 freaking minutes. 
 At first I had a nerdgasm seeing Darth and the Apprentice fight in the Imperial hanger. That lasted 
 about 30 seconds. The rest of the time I was pulling my hair out with frustration. Finally, I got 
 lucky and beat him. After that came the last boss. "O great I thought, how can I beat this guy." 
 I did it in about 2 minutes. From what I've seen, you have to fight the Apprentice everytime you 
 play arcade mode. So that will be the last time I ever play arcade mode.
  
  I would have liked to see some more interactive and complex environments, some different game modes, 
 the Weapon Master because I found his training helpful, maybe some new characters who aren't female 
 (aside from the last boss of coarse) , a 3rd costume that could be a previous version of the character, 
 and storylines that aren't so tied together so there could be more variety.
  
  Overall it is a improvement from the previous games with only a few squabbles here and there. If 
 your a fan you will love this game, and if your a newcomer and are looking for a fighting game 
 that doesn't involve fists then check this game out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomwenz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  I thoroughly enjoy the game. The graphics are amazing, from shadows and lighting to overall detail 
 of models. The controls work well and I enjoy the fights a lot more in this one than in previous 
 games.
  
  Here are the only minor Issues that keep me from giving it a perfect score. There are many grapple 
 moves that will ring you out from a decent distance away from the edge of the arena. It can make 
 a lot of fights unexpectadely short, which can get frustrating when you are in a chain battle and 
 when you defeat an opponent near the edge and the next one appears right behind you and knocks 
 you off before you even get a chance to react. 
  
  Another letdown is the lack of shops. Players are forced to navigate thru many menus in many areas 
 of the game in order to find things to unlock (including artwork, videos, armor, characters, weapons) . 
 It would be nice if all the unlockables are all centralized. Also rather than selecting a character 
 to fight with and then picking a weapon, a player must go into a save slot of that character and 
 change the weapon in the character creation menu and then save it again, which is time consuming. 
 The alternative is to have multiple saved versions of a character, but with only 50 slots to save 
 versions of the 30+ SC fighters andcustom characters, it fills up pretty fast.
  
  The other thing that disappointed me was that the Story mode was incredibly short. It consists 
 of only 6 predetermined battles for each character. I kind of liked the length of the Soul Calibur 
 3 Story mode, where you had a good 10-12 fights and you could choose which path to take, sometimes 
 leading to challenge encounters. I feel like I will have to replay a lot of content for not reason 
 except to try and save up enough money to unlock a lot of stuff.
  
  The addition of the Star Wars characters didnt bother me at all. I am a Star Wars fan and thought 
 that the three added to the game are good choices, since the games theme is a epic ongoing battle 
 between good and evil.
  
  The Armor Meters, Soul Guage, and Critical Finish elements to me are very well planned out, and 
 unlike some other games (Naruto and Bleach) , the critical finish move is not the deciding factor 
 of every fight. In fact, since story mode battles are only one KO each, you will find it very hard 
 if not impossible to perform a critical finish in there, which keeps the moves from being cheap 
 and unbalanced, providing you with a sense of accomplishment when you successfuly perform one.
 
  
  To sum things up, I would definately recommend this game to any fan of SC or fighters in general. 
 It is probably the most polished game in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: csqwared
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 3:32 pm PT
Review:  -------------------------
  Graphics: 9/10
  +Glossy, clean graphics.
  -Environments feel kind of flat sometimes.
  ________________________
  The graphics are absolutely 
 great, it has a glossy feel that adds a lot to it. A huge jump from Soul Calibur 3 which even for 
 the time was some-what lackluster. It's something different from all the FPS games we have had 
 to look at, and it truly is something special. The environments looks excellent, and the character 
 models are great.
  __________________
  Gameplay: 9/10
  +Fun, moderately paced action.
  -Some characters feel a bit sluggish.
  ________________________
  The controls have been pretty 
 revamped from previous Soul Calibur games, although it is much easier to control, and get the move 
 you are aiming for! The attacks are flashy, and there is a huge variety to them. If you are a fan 
 of fighting games then you won't be disappointed. Also some new mechanics like the breakable armor, 
 and Soul Gauge have been added. They definitely add something different to how you fight.
  __________________
  Sounds: 9/10
  +Soul Calibur is known for it's epic orchestral sounds, and 
 IV is no different.
  -Some character lines are extremely cheesy.
  ________________________
  Much like previous Soul Calibur games the music is more epic than other 
 fighting games, it has an orchestral feel to it, and it really get's you into the game. Even just 
 the game sounds like sword clanking is right on. Sound is no issue for Soul Calibur IV.
  -------------------------
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TwiztedMetal
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 11:29 am PT
Review:  First I want to talk about graphics this game has some of the best graphics a game could have from 
 animated backgrounds to great physic movement on the characters clothing and the lighting is just 
 flawless. I agree with most people when they say this game is like playing continuously in a cut 
 scene.
  
  The game play is also a very attractive part of this game seeing how you can just pick up the controller 
 and play and with little or no experience in one day can unlock all the characters. But for all 
 the hard core fighting fans they can up the difficulty and be challenged as well. You may find 
 that button mashing will work through most characters but there is a few that if you will never 
 beat unless you take some time to figure out a plan of attack.
  
  There are three single player modes Arcade, Story, Tower of Lost Souls. Arcade mode consists of 
 8 battles. The story mode is mad up of 5 battles were you may be teamed up with someone else versus 
 4 others or a simple one on one and everything in between. These modes feel short but I think it 
 has a good balance to it seeing how people like to see endings and get new characters quickly. 
 The Tower of Lost Souls on the other hand has 60 floors that you have to hack your way threw with 
 stipulations on each floor to getting a secret item that you can use in your character customization. 
 Example "Floor 1- Soldier's Hat, clear stage while taking no damage".
  
  The multilayer portion of this game is probably going to keep this game's longevity seeing how 
 you can create characters and use them online against others. For those of you that have been wondering 
 yes you can use voice chat. There is almost no lag but of course in any online game you're at the 
 mercy of your ISP. Online multilayer is not the only way to play you also can play alongside your 
 friends in your own home as well.
  
  Character customization is completely great and I will get this out of the way now nobody other 
 than Vader and Apprentice can use the light saber or the force. Sure you can modify those characters 
 but you can change very little about them. But the menu system is very easy to use and makes it 
 fun and not tedious while you're trying to create your masterpiece. Make sure you have earned gold 
 either in the Arcade or Story mode because some of the better pieces of equipment and weapons will 
 cost you a few thousand gold. Also remember you can unlock new stuff in the character creation 
 if you meet the requirements in the Tower of Lost souls or by getting some of the honors. The only 
 thing that is a little tough to learn is how to get your character to meet the requirements of 
 specific skills. Other than that it's a blast.
  
  This games music is just as you would expect from a Soulcalibur game. It goes great with the game 
 and if you notice every time you play a match it tells you the song title in the bottom right hand 
 side of your screen. And the answer is yes to all you Star Wars junkies they do have Star Wars 
 music on their two levels.
  
  Now for the part were they could improve on the game and it really is not that big of a deal to 
 most but I personally like to find a character that I am decent with and turn me from being decent 
 to a person you don't want to run into. Well if you are looking for that this game will work your 
 fingers off trying to get to your move list in the Training mode. Because you have to pause the 
 game go down about half a page of options then select move list then you have about half a dozen 
 more options to figure out just what you want. You can have the computer display how the move is 
 done and what it looks like but there is no option to leave the particular move on the screen while 
 you try to execute a eight button combo so you will find yourself doing one of two things either 
 writing the moves down on paper or two going back in and looking at the move over and over and 
 over again. Like I said it's not a big deal but for people that would like to master a character 
 and all there moves it can prove to be tedious.
  
  Overall this game is a must play for anyone that likes the fighting genera. This game will keep 
 you coming back for more over and over again. The graphics are memorizing and the game play is 
 immersive. The multilayer is just flat out fun and the character creation will keep you entertained 
 for hours on end. So go out get this game! I highly recommend it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shadeofgood
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:53 am PT
Review:  The game so far appears great. Of course I had to pick Darth Vader. I was pretty disappointed in 
 how he plays. 
  
  Its not necessary how he moves, like other people say, it is how he uses his weapon. Vader definitely 
 is not a character for beginners. He takes so much time to load his swings if you do the wrong 
 move. An experienced player can easily counter most of his moves, especially if a button masher 
 picks him. He does have some moves that come out instantly, but what is rough with that, a lot 
 of them takes from the Force Bar. So you have to be smart in how you use most of Vaders Move. I 
 hate to say this, but the Vader that was in Masters of the Teras Kasi appears to be far more superior 
 to this Vader. That Vader was better, faster, had manipulation with the Saber, and so forth. Would 
 it be too much to ask for Namco to give us a different version of Vader? Namco does good however 
 in making this Vader seem like the Movies version (The Older Star Wars Though) . All of his moves 
 are taken from there, except it is so slow to execute. I kind of feel though, there may be a hidden 
 potential in Vader, but it won't be seen right away. I just wish that this Vader was more like 
 the Anakin Skywalker version where he did all of the fancy moves with the manipulation with the 
 Saber. Namco should have understood that the old Star Wars actors (David Prowie) wasn't trained 
 to do that stuff and they should have made him more equal in terms of speed and so forth. If they 
 wanted to make him this slow, then most of his moves should do guard damage then. An average player 
 can let Vader swing, block, then easy follow up attack.
  
  I say that the game is stiffer this time too because I picked some of my old favorite Characters 
 and a lot of them are stiff too. I felt that Soul Calibur 2 was easier to move and the game play 
 was a bit faster. the plus that it is easier to read some moves this time around, but the way the 
 Guard Impact is a bit different this time around. 
  
  In Soul Calibur 2 and 3, you can get into Guard Impact battles, where you Guard Impact, then your 
 Opponent Guard Impacts, and it can continue on. This time it has been changed a bit. There are 
 Green Guard Impacts, and Red Guard Impacts. The Green can be counted, but a Red is far harder to 
 counter unless your timing is perfect. Plus when you Guard Impact low attacks this time, it causes 
 the character to fall rather then lose balance, IIts a bit different than what I was use to, but 
 I am surprised I haven't read about this in any of the reviews so far.
  
  It does look very good, and the game plays real good. I personally feels though, that it is a bit 
 less Soul Calibur and feels a little more like Tekken. Not much, but just a little.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fatmike2127
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  This game was really fun, but the story mode was shorter than some of the previous games like SC2, 
 and they were less characters. Namco could've put more characters in with a longer story mode because 
 sometimes people can't play online so the story mode is all they got besides the create a character. 
 I did really like the critical finishes. They remind of the Super Smashes for Super Smash Bros. 
 Brawl for the Wii and the Dragon Ball Z: Burst Limit special moves. The customizing characters 
 is a pretty good feature also, especially for when you play online, which is really good because 
 this is the first time Namco has ever done that. I believe that more people might have bought the 
 game also because of putting lightsabers in the game for Darth Vader, Yoda, and The Apprentice. 
 Of course, I would have gotten it anyway because I am a big fan of the Soul Calibur series ever 
 since they put Link in Soul Calibur II 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fourthgeartappe
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  As a longtime player of the series (back when it was still Soul Blade in the states) , I was ecstatic 
 to see how the newest Soul calibur would turn out on next-gen systems since its last outing on 
 the PS2, and was both impressed and indifferent. Soul Calibur IV delivers on the things fighting 
 fans would expect, and falls flat in the areas that needed the most work from before.
  
  All of the characters for the most part stay true to their original form, with much of the same 
 movesets and combos that you have come to rely on, which is great for veteran gamers of the series. 
 Siegfried retains moves and combos from the original back in 1997! It seems like the fighters have 
 been slowed down just a little tiny bit from SC3, but that may just be my imagination. In any case, 
 the timing for guard impacts and just impacts has been reworked to be more forgiving, so it's much 
 easier to punish opponents for mistakes, giving the players who use big, heavy hitters like Nightmare 
 and Astaroth a slight advantage.
  
  The character models are simply stunning, and I would accept no less from a Soul Calibuur title. 
 The animations are smooth as silk, and the framerate doesn't drop below 60 FPS for a second. The 
 backgrounds are equally amazing, and at times they look so good as to be distracting, especially 
 in the case of the Star Destroyer Tie Fighter launch bay, where the dogfights outside can make 
 you take your focus off the battle to admire the attention to detail (which isn't necessarily a 
 bad thing) . Even so, looking back on SC3, the graphics themselves don't look to have changed dramatically 
 since then, leading me to wonder if we have begun to reach the pinnacle of 3D graphics. Hopefully 
 I'm wrong. The main jaw droppers this time around are the weapon and particle effects, with beautiful 
 tracers, sparks flying and shedding light in real time on the characters, and cool static efffects 
 like the glowing of the upgraded Soul Calibur and Soul Edge, and the sizzling and crackling of 
 Vader and his apprentice's upgraded lightsabers.
  
  The addition of Darth Vader and The Apprentice were very cool concepts, and there are good and 
 bad ways that their addition panned out. Vader is everything you would expect; he swings his lightsaber 
 in his familiar two-handed grip in big, forceful swings, faithful to the movies. Of course, his 
 movement speed was dramatically increased in order to make him competitive with the other characters. 
 You'll find some familiar favorites in his movelist, including the power to throw your opponent 
 to his knees and choke the life out of him, and the throw he used in Return of the Jedi to kill 
 the Emperor is also included, with Vader lifting his opponent over his head to slam them on the 
 ground. New additions are the abilities to throw his lightsaber into an opponent for massive damage, 
 and also blast his opponent with an unblockable ball of pure darkside energy. Of course, these 
 moves are at the expense of a new Force Gauge for the Star Wars characters, which slowly regenerate 
 with succesive hits on your opponent. The Apprentice is likewise imbued with abilities, like slamming 
 his opponent into the ground with the Force, and the power to levitate for short periods. At times 
 he can be a bit overpowered though, and he is quite a stern challenge on harder difficulties. His 
 huge repertoire of powerful moves can decimate overly aggresive opponents.
  
  The story mode was what needed the most repair, and it seems that rather than fix it, Namco decided 
 to truncate it. Instead of each character having a semi-developed story, each character has a five 
 stage run against pre-selected opponents who tie into their story. Some of these fights will be 
 against a normal character and up to 3 random custom characters (presumably their "henchmen") , 
 and others will be one on one. These fights culminate in a "boss fight" with your characters' nemesis. 
 The cutscenes used are the same for all fighters, and the only unique parts are the intro to their 
 story, which is all scrolling text, and their ending, which is about 30-45 seconds, with a text 
 ending for an epilogue. All told, it takes roughly 10-15 minutes to finish story mode with any 
 given character, and you could easily beat the game with every character in one night.
  
  Other single player modes include the usual training mode, where you can now record button presses 
 for your opponent and play them back to practice your set-piece counters. The Tower of Souls is 
 a new addition, in the same vein as games like Devil May Cry and Onimusha, where you fight your 
 way through a theoretical "tower", floor by floor, defeating enemies. You can descend the tower 
 to fight hordes of characters, or ascend and fight more powerful "bosses" with special weapon abilities. 
 It's good practice, and your opponents are varied, most fights will utilize a tag-team sytem for 
 you and your opponents, which shakes things up a bit, but no new ground is really broken. There 
 are a few small unlockables to be found, but nothing very interesting. Arcade mode is still there 
 for the fighting faithful, with 8 fights of increasing difficulty, culminating in a boss fight.
 
  
  Multiplayer was the addition fans were waiting for, and it delivered. Ranked and social matches 
 are a blast, and so far I have yet to experience any major lag. Custom characters are also allowed, 
 which gives the mode a little more replayability.
  
  Character customization is back, and it has been more streamlined. All of the game's main characters 
 can have their equipment and look fully customized, with the exception of their physique. There's 
 a plethora of options for clothing and armor, and some with attached abilities. Don't like Maxi's 
 Elvis-looking pompadour? Change it. This is where you also purchase weapons and upgrade the standard 
 characters as well. The main drawback is that you cannot select your character's weapon on the 
 character select screen; you have to "create" a custom version of the character you want with the 
 equipped weapon. If you want to quickly change the equipped weapon, it pays to create a bunch of 
 versions of the same character, each with a different weapon. Definitely a pain. Upgradeable abilities 
 are nice though, and most take effect automatically with a random chance of occuring depending 
 on the level of the upgrade, in an RPG-esque fashion. You are alotted points to each category depending 
 on the weapon you have equipped, and can choose your own abilities and their level by spending 
 points in that area. These range from auto-counter hits, to auto-grapple break, which makes it 
 harder to throw your character.
  
  New to the series is the Soul Crush system and Critical Finisher. Continually hammering a blocking 
 opponent will subsequently destroy pieces of their armor until they are defenseless and can be 
 finished with a Critical Finisher. Don't worry, all you defensive characters out there, the conditions 
 to perform a Critical Finisher are hard to get to, and I have yet to utilize one, so it's not a 
 common occurence.
  
  This Soul Calibur was definitely created to satiate fans' thirst for the series, but not necessarily 
 correct flaws inherent with it. I feel that the addition of Star Wars characters was a bit campy, 
 and it was probably done to attract new fans to the series. The fact that a lot of the advertising 
 shows only the Star Wars characters is my case in point. Nevertheless, no one can deny that it 
 was a cool idea, and the developers even went so far as to create a story that explains how Star 
 Wars characters got into our galaxy. I guess "A long, long time ago, in a galaxy far away..." refers 
 to the late 16th century. I can't complain; I, for one, will be playing as Vader for some time 
 to come. This is a great title, fans will cherish it as staying true to its roots, and newcomers 
 will find a series they can enjoy learning what makes a great fighting game, truly great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feniks9174
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 9:11 am PT
Review:  Fighting games all follow a pretty simple formula: create a dozen or two characters, each with 
 individual fighting styles, characteristics and mechanics, throw in an arcade mode of about 8-10 
 levels and call it a day. Of course, other things have become standard issue in the last console 
 generation. Online play, story modes and some form of character creation/customization are now 
 as much an expected part of the package as button combos and health bars on the top of the screen. 
 
  
  Soul Calibur IV does very little beyond the conventions. There are no revolutionary new gameplay 
 mechanics and there is nothing that really dares to step outside of the standard formula. But, 
 while some games can push the boundaries and break the rules, revolutionizing the genre in the 
 process, there's also something to be said about doing what you know and doing it well.
  
  Let me say this right now, I have not spent days upon days exploring every corner and facet of 
 this game. I bought it last night, played for a few hours and sampled each of the games modes/features, 
 so a lot of what I say is generalization. 
  
  Graphics - Alright, I'm actually a little mixed about this one. The visuals are beautiful. Landscapes 
 are lush, colorful and highly detailed without being gaudy and distracting. Frame rates are high 
 at all times and (for me at least) never suffer any noticeable drops allowing you to see every 
 bit of the action. Character models are also as detailed as anything you've come to expect from 
 a PS3 game. My only gripe here is the character design on some of the female characters. I realize 
 that it's a game and that "realism" is often thrown out the window for the sake of eye candy, but 
 is it really necessary for Ivy's shirt to be little more than a remnant of torn cloth stretched 
 mercilessly across her gargantuan sized breasts? Do her pants have to be, let's face it, a glorified 
 thong? Does Taki have to wear this magical spandex-type material that defies the laws of physics 
 and sinks down against her body and make sure you know that she has two seperate breasts? Do these 
 sickeningly large breasts (you heard me, not every guy finds that attractive) need to go out of 
 their way to jiggle and bounce at every possible opportunity, far beyond what the character's motion 
 would have actually caused? I know that there are thousands of 12 year old boys out there that 
 think I'm crazy for complaining about this, but I have to admit that when I put this game in last 
 night, I was embarassed to be playing it in front of my wife. Even the secondary costumes of characters 
 in question are unnecessarily skimpy. Taki's second costume in particular looks innocent at first 
 glance, but when you realize that she's not wearing any sort of shirt/bra under it and you can 
 still see a lot of jiggling most of the time, it makes it difficult to take her seriously as a 
 character.
  
  Sound - The background music is nice, but nothing special and largely forgettable. Likewise the 
 voice acting is solid, but since there's so little of it, it's easy to gloss over and forget about. 
 Sound effects are pretty standard (how much can you really do with the sound of swords clashing?) , 
 but large blows are well translated, allowing you to really feel it when your character loses half 
 of their health in one big hit. My only gripe . . . Ivy sounds like a dude.
  
  Gameplay - The controls are responsive and quick and the ability to customize your character with 
 special abilities and equipment adds a layer of depth to an otherwise shallow genre. This, again, 
 is nothing new as several other games (DBZ Budokai almost 6 years ago was the first I played) have 
 done this in the past, but it's still a welcome inclusion. The story mode is . . . pretty weak, 
 to be honest. While the story mode in SCII could take hours to play through even with a skilled 
 player, the story mode for each character in SCIV consists of little more than a text intro, 4 
 or 5 matches, usually against several opponents at a time, and an ending cutscene. On the normal 
 difficulty setting, even a beginner player can run through the story mode in maybe 20 minutes or 
 so. This is nice in that it allows you to play through the story for all of the 20+ characters 
 without making a 6 month project out of it, but the fact that each one is so fast and "cookie-cutter" 
 makes them repetitive to the point of annoyance after 5 or 6 times through. Thank God for the ability 
 to skip cutscenes. 
  
  In particular, I'm a big fan of the character creation. While not as deep or varied as other games 
 (City of Heroes' costumes, Mass Effect's facial modeling) , it is very possible to create a huge 
 variety of characters ranging from a massive hulk of a man that looks like something out of a horror 
 film to a DoA Beach Volleyball-esque bikini girl and everything in between. The game also lets 
 you change the costumes of existing characters as well as base new characters of off existing ones. 
 However, before you go out and create an army of Bikini-clad Taki's, know that the costume is more 
 than superficial and that a lot of the armor/equipment you put on your character affects their 
 stats. So naked fighters die fast . . .
  
  As an example, I've created two characters so far, both using Taki's fighting style. One was a 
 "Michael the Archangel" type, lean and strong wearing majestic white armor with red and gold accents. 
 The other is a warrior princess type. Once you're done tweaking your skin color, equipment selection, 
 eye color, hair color, armor colors, stats, abilities, weapons and voice, you can truly have a 
 character that is all your own. 
  
  Quick Misc. Stuff
  - Genre veterans will likely find the single player modes pretty easy to beat.
  - Darth Vader 
 may not be as powerful a character as Star Wars fans were likely expecting him to be.
  
  Like the title says, Soul Calbur IV doesn't reinvent the wheel, but it rolls on 26" Dubs. Outside 
 of a few gripes that are largely cosmetic/avoidable, It's a solid fighting game that does almost 
 everything right. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kawlyn
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 31, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  I picked up my preorder of Soul Calibur IV (SCIV) yesterday on the way home. Much to my surprise 
 there was actually a price drop on the premium edition which I'd already paid in full. So I got 
 a $10 credit towards my now reserved copy of Resistance 2.
  
  Anyway got the box home, checked out the swag. Everything was packed in a fairly nice metal box. 
 I have a serious weakness for anything that comes in a metal box for some reason. 
  
   Pretty nice t-shirt, Vader and Mitsurugi. 
   A pretty nice comic featuring Hilde and Mitsurugi. 
 
   A code card for 'exclusive' unlockable content for the PS3 Premium edition. 
   A poster / leader board chart for a tournament. 
   And a tiny sharpie to write on the chart 
 with. Kind of a nice addition, but it's not like there's a logo or anything on it, it just seemed 
 weird.
  
  Anyway popped the game in, it wanted a 16mb update right away. Then after reading the instructions 
 during the download I entered in my unlock code. (I'm still not sure what extras I got out of it) . 
 The when the game came back up again, I decided to do the install and start making dinner. It was 
 only a 2GB install so it wasn't too big. And since I upgraded my drive to 250GB I pretty much install 
 everything these days.
  
  Once dinner was in the oven and the install done, did a quick look though the options and jumped 
 into some arcade play.
  
  First thing I noticed was that the portraits for the characters are very small. Hilde and Vader 
 are available right away but a lot of the other characters include the standard ones from previous 
 games are locked. (More on that later) .
  
  Jumped right into things with Hilde, tall redheads wearing armor wielding polearms is totally my 
 kind of thing.
  
  Graphics are pretty much what you're expecting from your current gen HD consoles. I don't have 
 any complaints. Controls felt good; not a big difference from previous SC games.
  
  In a nutshell it's pretty much what you were expecting from Soul Calibur in a current gen console, 
 with few surprises and overall I'm pretty happy with the game.
  
  Unlocking the Characters
  
  Some of the characters are displayed initially but are greyed out. 
 You need to 'purchase' them in the character customization area. Characters like Setsuka, Yoshimitsu, 
 and Amy fall in this class. It cost 4000 gold to unlock them. I stated the game with 20000 gold. 
 I'm not sure though it that was part of my premium unlock code or not. Even then it's easy to get 
 more gold though the story mode.
  
  I'm not one of those super skilled fighter games types. I play on my own maybe just enough to unlock 
 a couple more characters or get some point so I can buy Asuka a new schoolgirl outfit, but mostly 
 I play fighters with friends. You know on Sunday when it rains during your BBQ, or before the hockey 
 game starts. 
  
  One of the big things that has traditionally frustrated me about some fighter games is it's bloody 
 hard to unlock some of the characters. I was really surprised and quite delighted when Vader was 
 immediately playable. Even earning gold by playing though story mode, (on the normal level of difficulty) 
 was pretty straight forward. I played though Hilde and Amy and earned enough gold to unlock most 
 of the characters I wanted to play, as well as unlocking Scheherazade (Hilde's story) and Kamikirimusi 
 (Amy's Story)
  
  To me this made the game immediately playable. There's nothing worse than having to put 30 hours 
 into a game just so your friends can play all the characters. Also that turns you into an expert 
 in all the other characters and makes things somewhat less fun to play with.
  
  Anyway the setup of the game seems pretty balanced and fun, and should be relatively easy to flesh 
 out your fighter roster.
  
  I also tried the online portion of the game, though only briefly. I connect for a ranked match 
 and selected Hilde and I promptly got my ass handed to me by some 15 year old who probably skipped 
 school all day and be practicing all the moves for the Apprentice.
  
  I'll go back and play on line a bit some sometime, I really only had about 3 hours last night to 
 try stuff out, but the online play was not a bit draw. Nor was I expecting it to be. Maybe that 
 will change and I may really get into it, but I doubt it.
  
  The addition of the soul gauge and the one hit kills seems a bit gimmicky. The destructible armor 
 however I think is pretty cool. You can't just turtle in the corner anymore 'cause you'll get punished 
 for it.
  
  The one hit kills though, I'm not so sure about. I think some of that may be reserved for the truly 
 elite players who are going to spend hours mastering this. I'm not.
  
  Now for the not so good parts. 
  
  OMG the Jubblies!! I mean really is this necessary? 
  
 
  I like women as much as the next guy, (assuming the next guy's not gay) but Taki, Ivy and even 
 Setsuka are a little ridiculous. Lovely, you've got a nice physics engine there, but Taki's just 
 disturbing. She looks like someone stuffed to eggplants in rubber bag and taped it to her chest.
 
  
  It just seems out of place. There are lots of other women in the game, in various states of undress 
 and they're not physically deformed. 
  
  Maybe they're trying to balance out the various fetishes. I get the Amy Loligoth thing, etc but 
  whatever I don't get it.
  
  The other slightly minor thing is I think we may be approaching the uncanny valley in terms of 
 character models. In an effort to make the models realistic, sometimes they just look wrong. Cassandra 
 for example looks like she hasn't slept in weeks. It looks like she's got bags under her eyes like 
 she just came off a 10 day crystal meth jag. Ivy looks like she just took a bong hit. Raphael literally 
 looks like a corpse.
  
  It's not a big deal when you're knocking the crap out of one another, but it's noticeable on cutscenes 
 etc..
  
  Overall score wise I gave this game a 7.5. It delivered almost everything I was hoping for, but 
 not a lot more.
  
  It's fun, it's immediately playable and it's well done. But it's not going to change the genre 
 or the industry.
  
  The online play may change that over time, but like I said that's not really a bit draw for me, 
 but for the core fighter fans it could be.
  
  If you're like me and you only pickup one or two fighter games for each console generation, this 
 game is definitely worth considering for your collection. 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dracodia
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 30, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  My friends and I are huge Soul Caliber 3 fans, we spent hours upon hours trying to perfect our 
 moves so that we could get the upper hand on the other person. In all fairness Brendan and Solomon 
 would beat me 20 times before i won 3 times but that is not the point. The point is that Soul Caliber 
 IV (SC4) has once again delivered an incredibly smooth flowing fighting game. In the ways of new 
 fighting techniques not many where added to pre-existing characters. Seong-mi na has a cool new 
 quake attack, and Nightmare makes use of his monstrous hand which you would do by accident while 
 trying to perform combos from the previous SC3 game. There where some cool new additions to moves, 
 such as Seigfried's crouching purple which he can now hold forever, not to mention his long charging 
 attack is rather simple, just hold O. So out of 10 the versus mode is an 8.5, the fighting is great 
 and fluid and not as choppy or suddenly stopped as it was in SC3. However not enough new additions 
 where made to warrant it making it a 9. With the introduction of the critical finishes the game 
 in my books could have easily been a 9.5 if some more features had been added onto the characters.
 
  A quick note on the Critical finishes for anyone having trouble. To unlock the instant movie kill 
 it is rather simple once you figure it out, we all know how terrible the games instruction guide 
 is... To speed up the process, just use lots of lightning, fire, or any heavy damaging attacks you 
 have, eventually you will here a clanging noise and see a bit of your opponents armor flying off. 
 When this happens you can now start aiming at achieving a critical finish (you can not do the finish 
 until you rip of a peice of the opponents armor) . Now that you have removed the armor do a bunch 
 of fast attacks that will make your opponent block over and over. As he does this you will notice 
 the green orb by the opponents name go from green, to yellow, to orange, and then red. Once your 
 opponent is in red life only do strong attacks or non-combo fast attacks until he is blinking or 
 flashing red, when this happens it is most wise to stick with strong attacks. When you hit him 
 one or two times his red orb will turn black, when this happens you must hit all the buttons at 
 once, on the ps3 this is automatically set to L1 but you can change the controls to your preference. 
 A cinematic movie will occur where your character performs his or her finishing move (Algol has 
 the craziest one by far) . If you hit the opponent however when he is black, you will perform a 
 soul crush and his orb will return to green.
  Now back to the review, Character creation in SC4 Is amazing, not only can you create your own 
 character and make him as or even stronger than characters pre-made for the game, but you can also 
 improve and make the characters like Sophitia and Lizardman and even Angol Fear, stronger, more 
 defended and give them new abilities. This adds to a whole new level of game play since overtime 
 your characters will just become stronger and stronger. One criticism about the custom design is 
 that you can only buy the equipment, i miss SC3 where multi player unlocked items, but so far it 
 does not seem that is the case for SC4. Another cool thing about the SC4 customization is that 
 you can only choose (which sort of sucks but o well) the weapons that the main characters wield 
 (including bonus characters use with the exception of Darth Vader which is rather annoying) . This 
 means that custom characters can have the same moves as your favorite weapon, but the wielder of 
 such power is entirely your own. The outfits i must say also look much better in SC4 than previous 
 generations (with a few exceptions including the incredibly whored out woman... how Ivy and Sophitia's 
 breasts stay in their tops i have no idea) since the equipment flows together and does not cut 
 through each other. Each bit of equipment also carries a bonus to attack, defense, hit points, 
 power, guard, special, gauge, and impact. While the first three are obvious (damage, damage reduction, 
 and how many hits you can take) the next five are actually scores as to how many abilities your 
 character can wield. You could combine a number of abilities that make it impossible to ring you 
 out, cause impact damage when certain attacks are blocked, regain hp on guard brakes, i would say 
 there where about 10-15 abilities per section so that makes it around 50-75 abilities you can customize 
 and add to your character making them unique.
  Now for the downside... the story flat out stinks, sucks, blows, any negative comment that you can 
 think of belongs here. The story mode plot is so none-existent it makes chicken shoot look like 
 the chronicles of Narnia plot wise (do not under any circumstance play chicken shoot) . It takes 
 place over 5 stages where you fight 4 people on stage one, three- four people on stage 2, one bonus 
 character on stage 3, 4 people on stage four, and on the last stage you either fight Algol, Seigfried, 
 or Nightmare. The end movies are kind of cool but are only about ten seconds long, and most of 
 them are terrible. Sophitia, Cassandra and Ivy are the three people who seem to have the real ending 
 since they where the only ones that made sense. but the most annoying part about the whole thing 
 was that after those 10 seconds the screen would go black and 1 to 2 sentences would appear to 
 tell you what happened. Sophitia of course said "and then she returned home to her children, though 
 history makes no mention of her, we assume she lived a happy life". the most annoying of course 
 was Seung- Mi Na's end movie where she picks up soul caliber and turns to fight Yun-Seung who has 
 picked up and become possessed by soul Edge, they go to fight one another and i was sitting there 
 pumped thinking, cool another fight! When.... the screen blacks out and the text comes up saying 
 "After dealing with that Seung Mi Na returned home smiling"... WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?! The story because 
 of that gets my very generous score of... 0.5. And the only reason it gets the .5 is because i 
 love Darth Vader's ending, he takes both of the swords from Algol after force chocking him to death, 
 then with an Evil laugh he destroys the tower and steps through the portal back to "a galaxy far 
 far away..." and the text on the screen says "With the Two Swords Lord Vader returned to his galaxy 
 and brought a whole new level of fear to those opposing the Empire."
  I know the game is an action game, but my friends and I are people who enjoy a good plot so we 
 can sink our teeth into the game properly. And while the graphics are amazing and some of the combo's 
 have been tweaked I do not feel the game has done enough to earn to noticeably separate itself 
 from SC3. As i have said before the game's plot sucks terribly, but the versus battles are as addictive 
 as ever... so i give the game a 7.5 overall 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toy11toy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  soul calibur IV is finally here. when i got it early this morning i was expecting something good 
 what i got was something great. but what makes it so great well, first i started with story mode 
 in single player i thought it was short but all the other soul caliburs had a short story mode 
 . story mode is good and it makes the characters more 'Loved" because you get to know them better. 
 now multi player is where the main bulk of the game is its your simple lobby like system. you start 
 a battle leader boards you also level up from each battle making it vary addictive. but then you 
 start wondering how do i change weapons well you need to go to create a character where you can 
 create for example a nightmare with his regular outfit but with his other weapons. this is also 
 were you can customize clothing for characters and buy weapons and i don't care what people say 
 the character creative mode is not linear at first sort of but you collect more stuff making you 
 have lots of choices big improvement from soul calibur 3. then you take your custom characters 
 and play with them online and its very additive. there is also a tower mode witch is fun its like 
 a survival mode, and like normal you have the museum and standard 2 controller multi player with 
 family or friend. And of course there is darth vadar who is a slow nightmare like character but 
 is powerful and the apprentice he is more well balanced then darth. There is also the critical 
 finishers which are a fun addition to the game play but hard to execute you have to make there 
 soul gage flash red and knock off all there armor. all in all soul calibur IV is a great addition 
 to you PS3 or 360 it fun, addictive worth the money, and will keep you hooked for the months to 
 come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxDarkuraixx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 29, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  Let me begin by saying:
  Je-
  Sus
  CH-
  RIST
  
  
  Once I popped in this game, I knew this was going to be a grand game, and I was right. The game 
 contains all of the slashes, bashes, grapples, and b3vvbs that the previous game contained. I was 
 very pleased to see the immersive gameplay along with the enjoyable game modes. HOWEVER, I did 
 not like to see the lack of game modes, along with the lack of...."story-juice." Other than that, 
 if you have a PS3 or a 360, pick this game up at your local Gamestop. If you have never played 
 any of the games in this series before, I suggest you rent this first. So, allow me to list my 
 pro's and con's as I do in all of my other reviews.... EHEM!
  
  Pros: Immersive Gameplay, Endless fun with the multiplayer, loveable characters (/wink/wink/wink) , 
 crazy fun single player, challenging AI
  
  Cons: Lack of game Modes, Lack of Story
  
  OVERALL SCORE: 9.5
  
  
  ALSO, I did get this game for the PS3, but only because I love the 
 
  Vader-nator and I needed to build up my Game Library for the PS3.
  
  My PSN is: Liqu1d Zer0 
  and I will soon make another named: xAbyssal Voidx
  
  
  
  Enjoy 
 the game folks!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 30, 2008 6:21 am PT
Review:  This isn't the best Soul Calibur but it does make up for the third one. Almost all of your classic 
 stars are here with around 4 new ones & a bunch of created character look alikes. The PS3 has Darth 
 Vader & he is amazing. He has a force meter under his health for your force moves like a force 
 pull or a force choke. Now I enjoyed playing with Vader until I unlocked his Apprentice from the 
 new force unleashed game then I said "Vader who?" Fast moves, cool air combos & force powers that 
 are... Unleashed. I think he's also in the 360 version as well but with Vader together, the PS3 
 version was my pick. I got my hands on the game 2 weeks before street date so I did finished it 
 many times. The online wasn't ready so I couldn't try it out. The single player has arcade, story 
 & a tower battle that you fight your way to the top with two characters almost like Tekken tag 
 but not as cool. Once you fight to the top you can make your way back down. The story mode is quick. 
 I mean that my girlfriend can finish it in less than 15 min & she hasn't played since Soul Calibur 
 2. the tower is a nice touch with around 20 floors with no less than 4 fighters a floor but its 
 all about playing with another person. You can create your own characters or just edit any of the 
 regular ones. You can change there outfits, hair & wepons. The only bad side is that you can't 
 change Darth Vader or The Apprentice except there lightsabers but not the colors. If there's an 
 option you have to unlock to do that then I haven't got it yet. If you are a Soul Calibur fan & 
 you didn't like Soul Calibur 3 or it turned you off the series then 4 will get you back. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutt523
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 30, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  This game does not have enough modes. It has the same combat system. A few new characters, and 
 good graphics. They did add Darth Vader and the apprentice. Vader is so slow he getts his *** kicked, though 
 the apprentice is very strong. You can still make your own characters and now you can customise 
 SC characters. I say the customization has been corrupted. Now the clothes give you attributes but 
 when you put all the good stuuf together you look so stupid it ain't even funny. I would give the 
 graphics a 9 out of 10 though. There are only three single player modes. One is story that consists 
 of only like 5 battles. Arcade which is 8 battles. The tower which is kind of a messed up survival 
 mode. The devs made this game so sexual it is so unreal it isn't good. Like Ivy who would wair her 
 outfit. Multiplayer offline is horrible like SC3's multiplayer. The only people who benefit are online 
 players. This game isn't that bad but isn't what we expected. So like I said RENT IT FIRST. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
