-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man 3
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/spiderman3/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Swinging through NYC is a lot of fun.
 Lots of content to play through.
 City looks excellent.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is either boring or frustrating, depending on who you're fighting.
 Camera constantly gets in the way.
 Technical glitches and frame-rate issues.
 Story is disjointed and doesn't tie itself to the film very well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: May  4, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.6
Critic Score: 6.4, 42 Review (s)
User Score: 7.3, 1,376 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Treyarch
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: May 4, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This is, at best, a step sideways for the Spider-Man movie games. 

  Spider-Man 3 marks the fourth game from developer Treyarch to feature Marvel's popular web-slinging 
 superhero. So with Spider-Man 3 being the first game in the series to hit the current generation 
 of consoles, you might expect something of a leap forward for the franchise -- something to really 
 wow Spider-Man fans and take the series in a new and exciting direction. No such luck, it seems. 
 Spider-Man 3 is a lot like the last couple of Spider-Man games. Sure, it throws in a few new wrinkles 
 to the combat system and adds some crazy God of War-esque contextual actions into the mix, but 
 the core game is functionally the same as previous Spider-Man games, and the changes are a mixture 
 of positive and problematic. Spider-Man 3 isn't altogether bad, but it has enough issues to prevent 
 it from being wholly recommendable.  

          Spidey's back, and this time, he's moody.     

  Spider-Man 3 ties itself into the new 
 Spidey film by including some of the key story arcs from the movie. You'll see Peter Parker get 
 his black suit as well as run into villains like Sandman, New Goblin, and Venom. But much like 
 Spider-Man 2, the roster of villains doesn't end there. Scorpion, Lizard, Kingpin, and others all 
 pop up in spots. While it makes sense for the developers to extend the scope of the story beyond 
 that of the film, trouble arises when you realize that the film's plot is practically glossed over. 
 There are 10 individual storylines to play through, but none of them are paced well, nor do they 
 ever build up or deliver enough of a story to pull it all together into one cohesive plot. It's 
 almost like a hastily cobbled together Spider-Man mixtape. You get all the villains, and none of 
 the story exposition. There's about as much character depth and story perspective here as is in 
 the film's trailer.  

  If you played any of the recent movie-licensed Spidey games, you'll feel right at home with Spider-Man 
 3 from the get-go. Like the previous games, Spider-Man 3 presents you with an open-world version 
 of New York City to swing around in to your heart's content. Swinging works much as it did in Spider-Man 
 2, letting you latch onto nearby buildings and launch quick webs to zip around as you please. Swinging 
 through the city is easily the best aspect of the entire game. The city isn't gigantic, but there's 
 enough familiar scenery around to make you want to explore, and that the city looks excellent is 
 a big plus. Buildings are nicely detailed, the streets are jam-packed with cars and pedestrians, 
 and the game uses some nice lighting effects to give the sky, as well as reflections of the sun 
 off buildings, a rather pretty glow.  

  As you swing around, you'll find open mission icons scattered throughout the city. Fortunately, 
 you don't have to go hunting for them, as there is a city map that lets you target any mission 
 icon available to you. Though Spider-Man 3 doesn't change its formula much from previous games, 
 the one big change for the better this time around is the game's structure. No longer are you forced 
 to complete random side missions to get new story missions to unlock. The story missions and side 
 missions are treated independently from one another, so you need only beat story missions to unlock 
 more story missions. The story itself is a good 10 to 12 hours long, even if you never engage in 
 any of the side missions, so you're not forced to sit through padded content that just makes the 
 game longer. Side missions are still worth doing if you need a change of pace from the story, and 
 there's still plenty of random crime floating about the city to take care of. The one bummer is 
 that few of these random crimes or side missions deviate very far from the ones found in earlier 
 Spider-Man games, and the few that do don't really fit terribly well. Even some of the new story 
 missions seem weirdly out of place. For example, why is Spider-Man now an expert at disarming bombs? 

          Swinging through New York is as thrilling as ever.     

  One other change to the game is the addition of contextual minigames. Clearly inspired by the gameplay 
 of God of War, Spider-Man will now engage in scripted events of acrobatic and combative heroism, 
 and all you have to do is press a few buttons in time with the icons that appear onscreen. One 
 example is Spider-Man having to leap through an impossibly complex series of lasers that will trigger 
 an alarm if hit. Just hit the buttons or analog stick movements that pop up, and you're good to 
 go. These new sequences aren't a bad addition, though they could have been implemented better. 
 There's often very little warning as to when one of these situations is about to pop up, so there 
 tends to be a trial-and-error aspect to them. The icons can occasionally be difficult to discern, 
 as well, specifically if the game is using analog-stick icons. If there's a lot of crazy action 
 happening onscreen, it can be tough to see exactly which direction the game wants you to go, let 
 alone act quickly enough to pull off the move. Fortunately, the game almost never starts you back 
 any further than the beginning of the minigame sequence you just started, so the punishment for 
 failure is minor.  

  Where Spider-Man 3 starts to lose its way is in combat. The basic combat engine doesn't feel markedly 
 different from earlier games, as it focuses on button-mashing combos that upgrade over time and 
 give you some unique special moves. The main problem stems from the game's overreliance on Spider-Man's 
 bullet-time equivalent. By holding down the left bumper on the Xbox 360, or the L1 button on the 
 PlayStation 3, Spidey goes into a slowed state that lets him automatically dodge incoming attacks. 
 In combat against basic thugs, you only need to use this every once in a while, though when you 
 do use it, you can clear an entire room in just a few seconds because the grunt enemies are so 
 inept at fighting back. But against most bosses, you have to keep this button held down at all 
 times to get much done. Some bosses can be whaled on sans the bullet time, but a few of the later 
 bosses pretty much require it, making those fights a plodding chore. It gets even worse when the 
 game tries to change things up on you. One of the more tedious, protracted boss fights pits you 
 against a giant version of the Lizard, where you first have to toss him into a series of power 
 generators using a clumsy spinning maneuver before you even get down to the dull business of beating 
 him up.  

  Spider-Man 3's camera system is an even bigger problem. The camera doesn't know how to snap behind 
 you if you have to run around in a circle to avoid enemy attacks, so you constantly have to readjust 
 it. If you happen to readjust it in a tightly enclosed area, the camera freaks out and you lose 
 all perspective of where you are or where the enemy went. It gets even worse during some of the 
 missions that require you to swing around the city. There are multiple missions where you have 
 to swing to a specific area in a certain amount of time, but getting the camera to line up so you 
 have a clear shot of where you next need to swing is an exercise in futility. You'll end up failing 
 far too many missions because of this. And if you're in a situation where you're crawling along 
 a wall or ceiling, make sure you're not easily nauseated. The quick snaps of the camera and constant 
 "Am I up or down?" perspective shifts make these parts vomit inducing.  

  Despite the fact that Spider-Man 3 is on the Xbox 360 and PS3, the game doesn't look like it's 
 built for this generation of consoles. The city features the most detail, though it also has a 
 few issues with texture popping. Most everything else looks slightly haggard in one way or another. 
 The Spider-Man character model looks great, but all the other people look bug-eyed and mildly deformed. 
 Some of the combat moves look neat, but the animations are jerky and stilted, as if transition 
 animations are missing. You'll also encounter a lot of weird physics glitches as you play, especially 
 during combat. Enemies will get hung up on walls or invisible pieces of the environment, objects 
 don't break properly, and even Spidey sometimes gets stuck in or clips through walls or set pieces. 
 The frame rate doesn't quite hold up, either. Neither version's frame rate is good, exactly, though 
 the PS3 version is a bit chunkier. On the flipside, the PS3 version's character models look a bit 
 smoother and less aliased than the 360's, so it's a matter of give and take.  

          As cool as some of Spider-Man's combat moves look, the fights are generally pretty lifeless, 
 and the camera tends to make things frustrating.     

  The game's audio is mostly predictable, though it's decent enough for what the game requires. The 
 biggest draw here is the involvement of the film's cast. Kirsten Dunst is nowhere to be found, 
 but Tobey Maguire, James Franco, Thomas Hayden Church, Topher Grace, and J. K. Simmons all make 
 appearances. Simmons seems to be the only one that's enthusiastic about reprising his role as J. 
 Jonah Jameson. Maguire gives an OK, but generally, sleepy performance as Spider-Man/Peter Parker, 
 and the remaining cast all seem like they'd rather be somewhere else. Bruce Campbell shows up yet 
 again to play the narrator, though he generally comes across as superfluous and out of place. Sound 
 effects and music are both solid, though once again, swinging through the city seems oddly silent. 
 You get some nice whooshes of wind as you swing about, but the soundtrack either cuts out entirely 
 or stays very quiet and understated as you swing. At least the music is good during fights.  

 
  In the end, Spider-Man 3 has its moments. Swinging through New York is as fun as it's ever been, 
 and some of the new contextual action sequences are pretty cool. But for everything Spider-Man 
 3 does well, it does something else poorly. The camera and presentation issues, as well as the 
 clumsy combat, all conspire to drag the experience down significantly. Spider-Man 3 isn't without 
 merit, but unless you're one of those diehard Spider-Man fans that can't get enough of the swinging 
 superhero, there's probably not enough to Spider-Man 3 to make it worth your time.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (130 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: zacroxs
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 16, 2009 2:50 am PT
Review:  Well i know spiderman 3 has been out for a while but im still going to review it. well here goes!
 
  
  Story: okay every one whos seen the movie will know what this game follows. well yeah spiderman 
 going emo spiderman losing emo spider man killing venom. It follows the movies plot well. But now 
 theres ''side plots'' you got. The lizard, apocalypse, Arsenic candy, and a few others. your just 
 trying to take these gangs and monsters out. It doesnt tell you how or why the streets of new york 
 are over run by gangs. It doesn't follow the story TOO much which is good to me. Sometimes you 
 will get annoyed that some of these side plots become redundant and tedious and in most cases not 
 to much fun. Even sometimes they get insanely hard. where you have to fight 10 henchmen then when 
 your nearly dead you fight the gang leader. You might want to have the blacksuit spiderman but 
 no you have to eliminate a ton of gangs. When you finally get the black suit spiderman it doesn't 
 make the missions much fun either. 
  
  Graphics: Wow i was amazed at the graphics but not in a good way. its really just horrible. this 
 shouldnt be on store shelves in this condition. Characters in cut scenes are horrific. The only 
 saving grace is the city when your swinging over it WITHOUT frame rate drops or annoying texture 
 popping it is quite a sight. This game might not had such a great budget but come on it is just 
 horrific. Sometimes when your lucky you will see some amazing lighting. it wont look like crysis 
 but you do see a glimpse of a something good underneath its horrific exterior.
  
  Gameplay: Gameplay wise its not broken but its not perfection. Fighting is unique to say the least. 
 you can button mash and that will get you places but if you can master it more strength to you. 
 It has a very bad combat system because you button mash to win most battles but if you take the 
 time to study and perfect it you will most likely never die. i didnt master it besides a few favorite 
 combos and even that will get you further then button mashing. In terms of black suit, red suit. 
 theres not difference mainly. Black suit is only different because of ''rage''. Bash a few heads 
 in and fill a bar. once the bar is filled you tap R1 and you start flashing red. Its ment to make 
 him stronger and all that like a superhero steroid but really i couldnt see a WHOLE lot of change. 
 You can buy one new character. The new goblin. it doesnt have a new story or missions all it does 
 is let you fly around using six axis control. Even worse when you complete a mission it goes. Thanks 
 spiderman we couldnt do it without you. Hey moron new goblin here! jeez. Random crimes are back 
 and they seem less maybe too less. there is one random crime which is just plain horrible and dont 
 know who it got into the full game. Theres a bank with 3-4 bombs you gotta disarm then and take 
 them to the bomb squad. well that sounds easy! no you got 3 mins and with the bombs you move to 
 fast BOOM! they blow up and your gone. Also when theres a random crime you cant go and do a mission. 
 i found myself at king pins place ready to do a mission when a random crime comes up and the mission 
 starter disappears. wow just wow. 
  
  Sound: okay sound in spiderman 3 isnt great. no game is great in sound and it doesnt change here. 
 Spiderman when he shoots web it does make a sound similar to the movie so thats good and hits sound 
 okay. You cant really say alot about sound for spider man its mediocre and sometimes sounds just 
 sound odd.
  New York's sound just doesnt seem brought out. It couldve been a whole lot better if they spent 
 more time on the sound of new york. 
  
  Story:7.1
  Gameplay:7.5
  Graphics:4.4
  Sound:5.1
  
  Overall: 6
  
  Closing statement: Spiderman 3 couldve been a whole lot better. 
 Heck might have been honorable mention for adventure game of the year but it just falls flat on 
 its face with its graphics, story elements and parts of its gameplay... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Breadcrab
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 5, 2009 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Despite most movie-based games being terrible, the first 2 spider-man movie games were some of 
 the few exceptions in the industry. Well, the third spider-film came out recently, and it turned 
 out to be one of the highest grossing films ever, so guess what developer Treyarch was thinking? 
 Its cash-in time! Unfortunately, they didn't put nearly as much care into this entry to the series, 
 and it ends up being one of the most frustrating games in the spider-man canon.
  
  You play as Peter Parker/Spider-man, who is still fighting crime in the streets of Manhattan. Unfortunately, 
 the story of the film was quite weak, so the developers didn't really have much to work with here. 
 I'm not really going to spoil much here. Spider-man must fight against 3 villains: New goblin, 
 Sandman and Venom. In the meantime, an alien symbiote infects his suit, making him more aggresive, 
 and he has to end up fighting himself too. That makes the total 4 villains. Did we need that many?! 
 But wait, that's the amount of villains in the movie, in the game they decided to add in around 
 10 more. What were they thinking? Weren't there enough villains already?
  
  Anyways, lets talk about the gameplay. Spider-man basically starts in an open ended Manhattan, 
 where he can swing around, access missions, find random crimes, do activities and so on. The first 
 major complaint is how lifeless the city is. Sure there are lots of cars everywhere and civilians 
 walk the streets, but you can't interact with them at all. None of them are surprised to see you 
 or cheer you on, and if you bump into them or attack them, they just keep walking. The only thing 
 they do is run away if bad guys are nearby, So it really takes away from the atmosphere. There's 
 a useful map you can use, and if you select a starting point for a mission, a point marker will 
 appear in-game and show where to go, which is useful.
  
  The missions are structured as you might think. They give you objectives that you must complete 
 in order to complete it. Sometimes these missions take you to a specific place that you can't access 
 normally, and you usually can't leave them without quitting the mission. Each storyline has around 
 3-5 missions, and there are 42 missions in all. It will take you around 12 hours to complete all 
 the missions. There are also activities and random crimes you can complete, but these don't really 
 give you much of a reward and are mostly there for fun.
  
  Spider-man can swing around, combat enemies, etc. The swinging is fun and thanks to the great control 
 it really makes you feel like spider-man. However, the combat has been considerably watered down 
 compared to other spider-man games. It now consists mostly of button mashing. The game remarks: 
 "It uses a simple but in-depth combat system." In-depth meaning you can collect tons of attack 
 combos, more than you'll ever need. There are more than 2 thirds of them which I don't even know 
 that I have. There is also a really frustrating counter attack system where you must go into slow-motion 
 and wait for the enemy to attack, then counter-attack. It's very annoying, especially in boss encounters 
 where you'll need to do it very often. There are also some God of war style quick-time events. 
 However, these tend to require very precise reactions, and the unresponsive control can make it 
 difficult. Also, these seem to come out of nowhere, making it pure trial and error.
  
  On the technical side of things, Spider-man 3 is a mixed bag. All of the characters resemble human 
 beings, but they're designed in an almost cartoonish way, clashing with the realistic environments. 
 The game uses physics, but they're not very believable, and, combined with the graphics, make for 
 a strange experience.
  
  The sound quality is also lacking. All of the explosions and punches sound cheesy, and the voice 
 acting isn't that great, even with the voice talent of the stars from the movie.
  
  So in the end, Spider-man 3 is only worth a rental for casual fans of the movie, and only worth 
 a purchase for spidey fans, even at its cheap price now. Still, most people will be better off 
 with the recent Spider man: web of shadows, which is much better fan service and more fun. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpspeed
Rating: 6
Date: Feb 10, 2009 7:58 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Spider-Man, and as a result, I have struggled through many mediocre 
 games just because I love the character. This game is so frustrating, that I'm considering not 
 finishing it..
  
  I tried to give the game an honest run, and thought that perhaps my issues were mainly due to my 
 unfamiliarity with the control scheme. After having spent some time with it, I can honestly say 
 that this is not the case.
  
  The combat system is mainly good, though it can be tough to keep the camera at a good angle. Combos 
 can be fun to pull off, and can deal out a lot of damage to a group if done correctly, but there 
 are so many of them that I just know a few of them, and perform the others on accident. 
  
  The mission structure is decent, for the most part, but some items just feel out of place and unnecessary, 
 such as Spider-Man diffusing bombs, and the pointless "Mary Jane Thrill Rides." The Boss battles 
 are more frustrating than they are difficult. They have included several side activities that seem 
 like a waste of time more than anything. (Skydiving, racing, Bomb Tour) I would have preferred 
 that they spent more time working on the game and the story instead of adding these activities. 
 
  
  The biggest flaw is the general manipulation of Spidey. Spider-Man rarely does what you want, or 
 expect, him to do and the controls are very inconsistent. Sometimes when web-swinging, he will 
 randomly miss buildings that are obviously in range. Sometimes button presses get no response at 
 all. Moving around the city in a general manner can be quite fun, and is probably the best part 
 of the game. Trying to get to a specific place, however, can be downright frustrating, especially 
 if given a time limit, or when trying to follow the waypoint markers.
  
  While there are some bright spots here and there, the negatives seem to outweigh the positives 
 overall. I had really hoped that they would be able to build off of Spider-Man 2, and create the 
 perfect Spider-Man game, but unfortunately that is not the case. I will probably still suffer through 
 the rest of the game because I am a big Spider-Man fan, but I can assure you that I won't enjoy 
 most of it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dunc_man
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 24, 2008 7:28 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is (needless to say) based of the third Spider-Man movie, which wasn't that good so 
 you can tell where this is going. So lets start of with the good. What Spider-Man games have always 
 done right since 2004 is the sandbox style city. You can go any where in the city and by the best 
 way of travel, wed swinging. This remains the most fun part of the game. They did this well because 
 while wed swinging you feel like you're Spider-Man (that is why you play superhero games after 
 all.) The controls for it work fairly well. The combat, not so much. You have tons of different 
 attacks and a few special attacks, more than you will ever need to use. In most situations you 
 can get away with using one or two in combination with the counter. The camera is usually bad. 
 It is hard to see what you are doing sometimes and just kind of jumps around in others. Some of 
 these fights can be fun but others can just be annoying and repetitive. The most noteable twist 
 to the combat is the black suit. It makes your melee attacks do more damage, gives you more attacks 
 (as if you didn't have enough already) , and replaces special attacks with rage mode. Rage mode 
 makes your attacks even more powerful and allows you to do a rage special attack. This will sometimes 
 get you through a fight. It's really annoying when you use your special rage attack by mistake 
 because you lose rage mode. There are many boss fights from the movie. Some against Sand Man, The 
 New Green Goblin, Venom, and others against villains not from the movie like Kingpin, Rhino, and 
 Scorpion. Some of these boss fights can be epic and quite fun (the final battle against Venom was) , 
 and others can be just boring as you rely on the counter attacks and rage mode. You follow the 
 story line of Spider-Man 3 and also have many other story lines to play through. Most of them feel 
 all scattered and unrelated to the main plot. Actually most of them are not related to the main 
 plot at all. With all these diffenent plots going on its hard to care about any of them outside 
 the movie. A turning point in the game is when you get the black symbiot suit, which takes way 
 too long. I've already mentioned what it does. After that the mood of the game gets a bit darker. 
 Aside from all the missions you can go around fighting crime agains a few different gangs. I spent 
 most of my extra time swinging around the city. When it comes to presentaiton Spider-Man 3 is not 
 at all impressive. The buildings look average, and in cut sceans the characters look dumb. The 
 voice acting is not particularly good. Tobey Maguire does an okay job of Spider-Man as does Topher 
 Grace and a few other actors but most of the added characters voices (especially scorpion) sound 
 cheesy, out of place, and just down right bad. The only person that has good voice acting is J. 
 J. (Peter's boss) . In cut scenes there are some clipping problems. Add that to bad voice acting 
 and mediocre graphics they are not that good. Over all Spider-Man 3 is an okay game in total but 
 isn't worth over $30.00 if you want to buy it. If you want to try a good Spider-Man game I'd pick 
 up Spider-Man 2 in the bargain bins. When it comes down to a good game Spider-Man 3 is hard to 
 recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Dark_Snake
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 1:20 pm PT
Review:  
  Spider-Man 3 is another good game of the series. Do not take the other review so seriously. This 
 game is essential for fans of the web-head.
  
  SM3 is based on the movie of the same name, which was launched in 2007. Yes, he has all the key 
 figures of the film, and others. But it has its problems.
  
  The gameplay is intuitive and takes you half an hour to get used. Swing on webs is exciting as 
 ever. But the fighting worsened slightly. Many glithces and you might end up getting stuck in a 
 wall if you play like a madman. The AI of the enemies is reasonable. They will attack and defend 
 in moderation. But Spidey has some new tricks. The key is the Black Suit, a black outfit that makes 
 him much stronger and faster than ever before.
  
  The design is very good. Despite the faces of people seem half flat, everything else is great. 
 The city is very beautiful and you'll be living in New York. Many sound effects come from the movie. 
 The movements of Spider-Man are improved and you will feel like it.
  
  In conclusion, Spider-Man 3 is a good game. It has its faults. But what game is not? It is worth 
 playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRey69
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 31, 2008 2:45 pm PT
Review:  The grafics looks like a playstation 1 game and playing the game on a PS3 will make you think that 
 theres something wrong with it, even tho the control it's quite simple the hits doesnt seem to 
 kill a even a flee, the history it's complicated and sometimes confusing. In this game you will 
 face regular enemy's that are harder to beat than the mutants ones and after completing some missions 
 it will become boring not mentioning the voice acting wich is lame. They tried to make it funny 
 but it ended up being a embarrasing. Earlier versions of the game for PS1 or PS2 actually look 
 better and are more funny. Buying this game it just like throwing your money to the garbage because 
 it doesnt start very good and ends being even worst. so if you are a Spider Man fan, go for something 
 else but this game or you'll want to kill the spider hahahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: husainml
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 1:35 am PT
Review:  I thought the game would be something very different from other but i saw no class in it. I think 
 Treyarch has to do way better next time. The game is quite boring and you would not know what to 
 do when playing. Lets see how Spiderman: Web of shadows will do. They should made the game more interesting 
 and exiting. I totally wasted my money on this. I would recommend rent this instead of buying and 
 anyways this title is become old. Creators of this game should have given more effort to the graphics 
 and frame rate. Playstation 3 is perceived to have a very good graphics game specially spiderman. 
 I think most of the gamers and spiderman fans will be expecting if not more, at least at the same 
 level of quality like the movie, so please guys don't change this perception. ahh forget about it. 
 COMPLETE WASTE OF TIME!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  First off, I loved Spider-Man 2. It had a great sandbox feel to it. I'll break this down into parts: 
 story, graphics, gameplay, sound
  Graphics -- Right now, looking at this game, it looks good from far away. When you look at it closely, 
 you see clipping, a bad frame rate, and some weird looking human models. The model of Spider-Man 
 does look great for a game made in mid-2007 for a movie game. The city looks good, with some nice 
 but weird lighting effects, giving the whole atmosphere a dark feel to it. When on the street, 
 humans walk very weirdly and their eyes are popping out of their heads. Cutscenes look better, 
 with more detail and look like Flint Marko, Eddie Brock, Jonah Jameson, and Tobey McGuire. Once 
 in a while the frame rate slows down. Kirsten Dunst is barely even in it, but surprisingly looks 
 bad compared to the rest of them. 
  Sound -- The voice acting is decent, and it seemed like the actors wanted to be somewhere else. The 
 sound in the game is alot better. Spidey's webs have a great shwishing noise while swinging. The 
 sound during battles is alright, but not great, especially in slow motion
  Story -- see the movie if you want the real story. The story in this game relates somewhat with the 
 movie's, but adds alot more villains and storylines along for the ride. There's the lizard story, 
 where Dr. Connors turns into a giant lizard in an attempt to regrow his arm back, along with Kraven 
 and his girlfriend Calypso. Rhino and Scorpion are also in it, where they have a secret government 
 facility as Governors' Island. They also threw in Kingpin for a brief 2 missions. The mad bomber 
 is also in it, seeking revenge against Jonah and Manhattan for exposing his secret company. There's 
 the movie storyline, with Jonah Jameson, Flint Marko, Eddie Brock, Peter and a bit of Mary Jane 
 too.
  Gameplay -- like Spider-Man 2, Spider-Man 3 opens you up with a sandbox open world Manhattan to freely 
 roam around in and under. They took out the ability to web onto a helicopter and fly ro Ellis and 
 Liberty Island (for those of you who didn't know that and own Spider-Man 2, yes, you can go to 
 the Statue of Liberty) . Instead, you can go into the subways and part of the sewers (there's a glitch 
 where you can go into the sewers of the connor missions) . There's miles of subway to explore, and 
 swinging around the city is the best part of the game. Hold down x to jump in the air and press 
 R2 to swing a web while holding down x and L2 for a stronger swing. Pressing select will bring 
 up a map of Manhattan, where you'll find mission icons scattered throughout the city. You aren't 
 forced to complete side missions to unlock more story missions, though there are side missions 
 and plenty of random crimes around. There are gang story missions-the dragon tails, apocalypse, 
 and arscnic candy gangs-that are part of the story. The missions aren't hard and are very straightforward. 
 The controls are great but combat isn't exactly perfect. Holding down L1 will slow down time and 
 automatically dodge incoming attacks, which works fine one on one but with five or six people flying 
 at you, it's hard because there's a meter for it and it will eventually run out. There are some 
 harder enemies from the gangs, like the dragon tails one with the guy who has two swords with him. 
 Pressing square will start a combo attack and can be combined with triangle as well. To turn around 
 you have to roll the R3 (or right anolog stick) around. Pressing R3 will turn the world gray, spotting 
 enemies (red) , and important things (green, yellow) . The camera is bad in combat, because you can't 
 see who's behind you and can get very frustrating. Also in the mad bomber missions, to disable 
 a bomb is very frustrating-you have to press a button when this yellow liquid passes through tubes 
 to get to the power source. making the buttons face towards the power source defuses the bomb.
 
  I own the collector's edition, allowing you to play as New Goblin after you defeat him in the 
 story. The motion sensor controls are so bad that i sometimes throw the controller. But by changing 
 the options, controlling him with the main controls is a lot of fun. There's no missions for him 
 besides races and random crime. there are combat tours and races availible for Spider-Man. That's 
 all I have to say about Spider-Man 3 collector's edition for the ps3
  Final thoughts
  Story: 8.7/10 -- it did tie into the film and the scorpion/rhino missions and the connor missions 
 had good, solid stories.
  Graphics: 8.9/10 -- solid graphics for a movie game. there's some clipping and a slow frame rate, 
 but the cutscenes have some detail and the buildings look fine.
  Gameplay: 9.6/10 -- swinging around Manhattan and exploring is always fun. the combat is alright 
 but the camera and the dodging don't always work well.
  Final, Final thoughts: if you like Spider-Man 2, or are a Spider-Man fan, definitely pick this 
 game up. Not that this game doesn't have problems, but its still one of the best movie-games out 
 there like the Incredible Hulk. If you own a 360, buy this game. It has easy achievements and has 
 a better frame rate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 7
Date: May 28, 2008 6:44 pm PT
Review:  An important man once said, "with great power comes great responsibility". The creators of Spider 
 Man should have done a better job. With all the power of the PS3 at their disposal, game play should 
 have been improved. They did not use its full power, ignoring their responsibility. At first, the 
 graphics amazed me, but that was because this was my first game and I never saw such beauty. Unfortunately, 
 the follow up of the plot and the characters did no link together; barely any material was used 
 from the movie. Along with that, it was just like the previous games only it was more realistic. 
 Activision has made some good games, but this was such a big down set that my personal ideas of 
 them have changed. Hopefully, their next game will be better. Spiderman 2 had a lot of the same 
 action and same adventures and side missions that I felt I was playing the same game. Knowing that 
 mainly fans were going to buy the game, they story line should have followed the movie. In my opinion, 
 the room for improvement is tremendous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ANIALATOR136
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 26, 2008 6:15 am PT
Review:  I loved this game! The graphics werent perfect I have to admit but the story seemed quite involving.
 
  New York City is bigger than ever so that means a bigger playground.
  I even get to be spidey in the black suit. You can perform tons of different moves and combos on 
 bad guys. I seemed to like the way spider-man swung around the buildings. Some people say the physics 
 arent correct but I didnt fing anything wrong with the game. Once you have finished the story missions 
 there isnt too much to do.
  I found that its better to buy the xbox 360 version as you can obtain achievements giving you more 
 to unlock.
  My favourite bit of this title is roaming around the sewers.
  I think that the water looks quite good for such a low budget kind of game. You don't just fight 
 people, you can also fight man-like lizards!
  I wouldnt reccomend buying this game. Just try before you buy.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amplifystryder
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  I know that a lot of people hate this game, and with how critical people are I'm not too surprised. 
 It isn't the worst games, but it's surely not the best.
  I like the entire Spiderman Franchise, so it kept me interested for a while, especially with the 
 different 'gangs' that occupied different parts of the city. I thought that was pretty creative. 
 I stopped for a little while when I couldn't kill one of the freaking bosses though, the leader 
 of the 'Apocalypse' gang. I started playing it again a while later in life and found out that I 
 reallllly sucked before. Because I killed that boss on my first try (barely) . I was also able to 
 take down the other gang leaders along with a host of other infamous comic book foes, like the 
 lord of crime known as kingpin, the Lizard, and others. 
  The storyline wasn't very interesting and it took me forever to figure out how to use New Goblin's 
 flying board at the end of the game. 
  One super huge annoyance I had with the game was the amount of damage everybody was able to take, 
 ex: Sandman's large form consisted of my flying in circles, blowing the crap out of him for like 
 twenty freakin' minutes. Dang him.
  I was really upset with the fighting in the game, and I prefered the style of SM2 more. 
  And 
 once I was FINALLY able to get the Black Suit I was really happy. You don't really recieve anything 
 new to use, you just become a lot faster, stronger, and take less damage. Which was pretty much 
 the only reason I was able to take down ALL 3 Gang leaders at the same time.
  P. S. Where did shocker go? He's in seriously like, every spiderman game except this one.
  Whatever 
 though. Like in Spiderman 2, the world is HUGE, which actually made Web swinging around the city 
 one of my favorite parts of the game. 
  All in all, it was an okay game that deserves a chance. If you hate it, fine, I honestly don't 
 care. If you love it... then well, talk to me and I'll tell you about some really good games that 
 can blow this one out of the water.
  
  Or in this case  Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:45 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is a great game has few glitches , but the game itself isnt so bad.
  
  1st Swingging through Manhatten is great , the city looks big and its hard to find any tokens . 
 But the visuals disagin itself is freakin . But they did make Spidey look the best. The combos ar 
 great ,i dont know what Alex Navvro said bout the combo, but they ar the only thing that is the 
 one of the best part of the game.
  
  2ndThe enemis ar like pumkin dolls they are like "to kill a dead man" which means u kill them and 
 u still feel like they were already dead. The boss fights ar decent ( the sandman was the hardest 
 when u play as Harry) The graphics are good, but say thanks to the freakin people in the game, Graphics 
 look like crap, despite the ugly guys the graphics look pretty nice
  
  Overall the game is fun, sometimes swinnging through manhatten and punch du heads and collect stuuf 
 make the game whole lot better . But its definitly doesnt desrve a 6.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigAAce24
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 5, 2008 6:39 pm PT
Review:  lets see, I bought this game from walmart for 30 bucks, well actually only 10, i had a gift card, 
 but it was worth every penny. When you play this game you are just shocked at how great it looks. 
 The city looks absolutely amazing, spidy's not looking to bad himself. One thing that aggravated 
 me while playing was the frame rate. At certain points it was just so choppy, they could have at 
 lest got that fixed. Another thing was the people of New York, they didnt look nearly as good as 
 spidy. Besides those two things every things really good. Theres a great story, it will keep you 
 going for a good time. Besides the pedestrians, it is really well done. My sister has my old ps2 
 and spiderman 3, i was watching her play it then i play it on my ps3, you can tell a GREAT bit 
 of difference between last gen and next gen games. BIG DIFFERENCE! Also, whats up with the sound, 
 theres hardly any music while swinging? Anyway, i loved the cut sceens, also the ones you had to 
 mas buttons to do, some of those were funny. But perty much, a all around good game, it wouldnt 
 be a bad idea if your out at gamstop or eb games and pick up a used one, or just rent it for a 
 few bucks, its well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordvader1320
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 24, 2008 10:45 pm PT
Review:  We know that many of the videogames based on superhero movies mostly sucked, until Spider-Man 2 
 was released. A Masterpiece, in my opinion, and now, we have its sequel.
  
  GRAPHICS
  New York looks more beautiful than ever, with more detailed buildings, people finally not having 
 plain faces, though it could have been better if they moved the mouth, with a few visual forgivable 
 glitches.
  
  GAMEPLAY
  The gameplay wasnt changed alot, but those changes were ok. The Spider-Reflexes are easier to get, 
 just to wait for the blue meter to fill up, and I think it was better to make dodging with them, 
 because it assembles more to how Spider-Man dodges in the comics. The combat was changed to, with 
 circle now being the web button, but the difference is almost not felt.
  At some point in the game, we get to play with the Black Suit, there is almost no difference between 
 Black and Red, only for a few combos ant he Rage mode. While in rage, Spideys attacks get Stronger, 
 but for a limited time, but it is enough to take dow many bad guys, or it can be used for a special 
 attack that hist many bad guys at once.
  And for the Collectors Edition, I mean, Goblin Gameplay, we have the power to choose to play with 
 the analog stick, like the Spider-Man The Movie game, or with the SIXAXIS motion sensors, I honestly 
 prefer the Stick.
  Flying around the whole city is very fun, if only they had added Harrys own storyline, it couldve 
 been better. Goblins combat is simple, Strong attacks and Light attacks with some good bombs and 
 razor bats, thts ok to me.
  In the end, gameplay is almost unchanged.
  
  STORY
  It would have been better if it was more based in the movie, but it does the trick. It is long 
 and cool, but some things were truly pissed off, like the fact that you only fight New Goblin once, 
 or that some storylines were left unexplained, like Carlyle, after the fight with his helicopter, 
 we dont know if he escaped or was captured, because it isnt shown, the same happens after the final 
 fight with Kraven.
  
  IN THE END
  Spider-Man 3 is a good game, the story is ok, combat is frustrating only with the heavy bad guys, 
 swinging is as fun as ever, a few destructible things in the environment, free-roaming subways, 
 with few glitches, every SpiderMan
  fan should enjoy it, and very similar to SM2 in some aspects 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jibrox360
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  Yeah I just don't get it why a lot of people say this game called spiderman 3 sucks well even the 
 gamespot people who are like in charge they say its really not a good game. I cant believe they 
 did 6.6 the rating of the game. well I think it's a good game and I like the game really much cause 
 it's awesome. the tapping part where you like see these buttons on the screen and then you have 
 to press them that's what I really like about the game. i like spiderman when the first movie came 
 out I like spiderman 2 and 3 but not 1cause I don't know it just isn't good enough but I like the 
 series a lot . I like the graphics they are like good. It looks realistic and as if your controlling 
 the everything of the things. I know everyone said that the camera is like confusing and I agree 
 on that cause it is confusing. Well I would like say whoever like spiderman then get this game 
 I don't know why they hate this game but this is an amazing game its awesome man awesome well yeah 
 get this game man get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VHRS05
Rating: 3
Date: Mar 5, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  The game has the same storyline as the movie although you can choose to divert from time to time. 
 Villains will be the same as for the original story of spiderman 3 itself, they also added some 
 arch enemies of spiderman as seen on the marvel comics like kingpin and scorpion. Playing the game 
 its like playing in a playstation 1 console (no offense PS 1) because the graphics are just not 
 acceptable, the background and city's all looks the same to me. Voice dubbing is ok but the fighting 
 and action itself is not that much exciting. Also, you will find yourself web swinging most of 
 the time. Creators of this game should have given more effort to the graphics and frame rate. Playstation 
 3 is perceived to have a very good graphics game specially spiderman. I think most of the gamers 
 and spiderman fans will be expecting if not more, at least at the same level of quality like the 
 movie, so please guys don't change this perception. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Harsadi
Rating: 4.5
Date: Mar 3, 2008 11:02 pm PT
Review:  
  I am a fan of Spider-Man and very disappointed on the total lack of effort put into making this 
 game! Besides the swinging through the city everything else is either mediocre or just plain out 
 suck. The story is boooring, the camera makes you wanna vomit most of the time because it zips 
 and snaps so fast and awkwardly, bad frame rates, lighting, sound, music, character models combat 
 system and graphics. This game is on a next gen system and yet it does not feel or look like it, 
 the developers seem like they did not care on making a great game instead made a game because they 
 are just doing it for the money. Shame on you guys! This game should not have been approved to 
 be on store shelves because of its poor quality. 
  I loved the movie and I was hoping to enjoy playing the official game of the movie but I was wrong 
 and now I feel I have wasted my money and my time when I could've spent my time playing another 
 game or doing something else. 
  Even though I can play as the new goblin from the collector's edition it did not add anything or 
 improve the game. The controls use the sixaxis but the frame rate cannot keep things look smooth 
 in the flying which makes it really stiff and choppy when moving through the air. Another word 
 I can call this game is BUSTED. Stay away from this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmacscores91
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 4:29 pm PT
Review:  In this third installment in the franchise that is Spider-man, Spidey must fight numerous foes, 
 and also must face himself. yes, himself. First off, this game does a decent job in both continuing 
 off of SpiderMan 2, and in following the movie. In this game, you start off as SpiderMan, but as 
 you and your character progress through the game, Spidey meets many different foes, most are in 
 "gangs", which is what it is, a bunch of members in a group. There are four different groups in 
 the game, ranging from ninjas, to lizards. And that is where the game begins to leak at its seems 
 if you will. On the movie there, is no mention of gangs, or gangs with ninjas, or lizards. This 
 is where you can feel that the developers really just threw these things in to make the game a 
 little bit longer; which it does, but at the expense of fun. The game does use the main enemies 
 in this game though, including the Sand-Man, Venom, and Harry, his friend. However, it throws in 
 another enemy, Peter Parker's Professor. in this game, peters professor drinks a potion, and becomes 
 a lizard, making him the leader of the lizard gang. This is where the game really falls apart, 
 and makes it feel that it was created by someone other than Activision, who brought us the great 
 Spider-Man 2 (easily the best in the series) . However, this game does have some bright spots, like 
 great graphics, and a great city to explore freely. But in the end, this game feels like a basic 
 product of what really could have been a great game. If your have the 1st two games in the series, 
 and are a real die-hard fan of the series, then get it. but for those who aren't, look for it in 
 the discount bin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyplatinum
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 10, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  When Spiderman 3 was first announced as a video game, many were expecting it to be similar to Spiderman 
 2 which was one of the few decent movie tie-ins of recent years. However, sadly Spiderman 3 turned 
 out to be a huge dissapointment, similar to the movie. The gameplay actually isn't too bad, mainly 
 because of the fun and tireless web-slinging. The fighting however, is terrible, as are the majority 
 of the enemies you have to face. The visuals are also dissaponting, and really aren't at all fit 
 for a next-gen console. The physics are terrible aswell, sometimes it seems like enemies are running 
 into walls or sometimes even through them. The story vaguely follows that of the movie but has 
 naff side missions which are boring and dull. Overall Spiderman 3 is one of the most disappointing 
 games of 200, only redeemed by classic web-slinging and enjoyable cut-scenes - 5.0
  
  + Web-slinging
  + Cut-scenes
  - Awful physics
  - Last-gen visuals
  - Horrible fighting 
 system 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 1, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is a great game has few glitches , but the game itself isnt so bad.
  
  1st Swingging through Manhatten is great , the city looks big and its hard to find any tokens . 
 But the visuals disagin itself is freakin . But they did make Spidey look the best. The combos ar 
 great ,i dont know what Alex Navvro said bout the combo, but they ar the only thing that is the 
 one of the best part of the game.
  
  2ndThe enemis ar like pumkin dolls they are like "to kill a dead man" which means u kill them and 
 u still feel like they were already dead. The boss fights ar decent ( the sandman was the hardest 
 when u play as Harry) The graphics are good, but say thanks to the freakin people in the game, Graphics 
 look like crap, despite the ugly guys the graphics look pretty nice
  
  Overall the game is fun, sometimes swinnging through manhatten and punch du heads and collect stuuf 
 make the game whole lot better . But its definitly doesnt desrve a 6.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vaver16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 10:18 am PT
Review:  This game was everything i hoped in a spiderman game and more with just a couple flaws.
  The graphics are awesome, really smooth game play with better swing than 1 and 2
  the combat 
 is better, more combos the soundtrack in the game is just awesome, makes the game more cinematic
 
  The boss battles were fun, more hitting a button at a certain time than anything but its fun. 
 There were more old school boss's than the ones from the movies, they pretty much brought back 
 the same villains from 1 and 2, but hey at least they look better, and has better acting in the 
 game as well.
  
  But The camera angles at times suck
  when climbing a building the camera doesn't really follow that good
  
  but other than that, 
 this game rocks!!!!
  
  You might want to rent it first if you never played the spiderman trilogy but if u dont feel like 
 renting it, like me, just buy it, you will love the game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Roman_Irishman
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 23, 2008 2:31 pm PT
Review:  Ok I'm going to start out saying that I love Spider Man. He is by far my favorite superhero. I 
 also really enjoyed Spider Man 3 the movie, for my money it was the best of the Spidey films. That 
 being said you can see where I'm coming from with this game. My first impression was that it would 
 be similar to Spider Man 2 for the PS2. Thankfully that wasn't the case. While I enjoyed 2 very 
 much, there was too many side missions that you HAD to complete before moving on; which ruined 
 some of the experience. Anyway, once the Spider suit came on I was engrossed, the city, the web 
 slinging, the Spidey atmosphere is captured perfectly. Moreover, I found myself actually wanting 
 to play the side missions in this game just because the combat is more fluid and exact than the 
 previous games were. The graphics, while a bit of a let down aren't as bad as the first games (comparatively 
 on PS2.) The cutscenes in my opinion were not very well done; the in game action is another story. 
 For once in my life I actually found myself staring at the screen amazed at Spidey's movements 
 and detail while I was playing. In other words, I liked the in game graphics better than I did 
 the cutscenes. The choice of villains was excellent, from the Lizard to Craven to the movie villains. 
 So much better than facing the Vulture and Shocker AGAIN, like the first two games. One problem 
 I did face while playing was the camera. There were times I was playing the Lizard missions in 
 the sewer and I could hardly even tell what was going on. It really was pretty annoying but at 
 least the problem was only confined to the sewer levels. The only other problems I had were sometimes 
 at the end of the level there were interactive cutscenes where you had to press the button prompted 
 on the screen. When these prompts came up I would press the button asked for but I would fail anyway, 
 besides that they would make you replay the last part of the boss if you failed; not very fair 
 and it also made things take a lot longer. Finally, some of the bosses like the final level of 
 the Dragon Tails and Kingpin were pretty hard but mostly just frustrating because you would think 
 Symbotie Spidey would just lay waste to these jokers but they take forever to beat. Still this 
 is just part of the game and really not that bad. Some of the other bosses were very memorable 
 though, specifically the New Goblin, Sandman, and Venom battles. These fights were quite the Spidey 
 experience, not only did it absorb you into the fight; but the fights really made you feel like 
 Spider Man himself. Lastly, I felt pretty good about the voice acting, specifically Tobey (who 
 in my opinion IS Spider Man, Dr. Connors and New Goblin were strong too.) Overall I was impressed 
 with this game and I felt it was a worthy addition to the Spidey games that have been out so far. 
 Oh and controlling New Goblin on his glider with the Sixaxis motion is awesome! If you are a spider 
 Man fan I would definitely recommend this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YoungLink89
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 21, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  This Is A Must For A Spider-man fan its Got all you want, Interesting storyline, Good graphics, and 
 Pretty Okay Music Too. My One Complaint Is That Spider-man 3 didn't follow The Actual Plot Of The 
 Movie As Much As i Would Have Liked And I Found some Of The levels rather Irritating. But It Was 
 Decent Overall I Definently recommend Renting it At Your local BlockBuster first. Some of Levels 
 Were pretty random Such as The Photographing Giant Lizards Was not A part of the movie. One Other 
 complaint i had was the Combat was far to Simple it Appreciate More Indept combat. the Boss Were 
 relatively Simple And could use more challenging factors in them. some of the graphics i did have 
 complaints about they way they were animated Which make some Of Them Look rather bad. But You've 
 got to Love Swinging through New York city At high Speeds on A Spider web that factor never grows 
 Old 
::::::

::::::
UserName: suleiman89
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  The game is like throw up not so good, the only time its great is when you are swinging, sort of 
 like after throwing up you feel better same idea the story isn't that bad I mean sure it doesn't 
 follow the movie but whos to complain, the camera is crap as ever the graphics are nice, but still 
 could be better and the first game I've ever played that made me have to reset my PS3, annoying 
 but still I was able to beat the game cause fighting crime is fun, I mean seriously nothing like 
 pummeling an enemy even though before you finish your combo his dead, replaying the game is very 
 low, the cutscenes aren't great although a great addition is something that started with God of 
 War pressing the right button at the right time like x or 0 or L1 or L2 or R2 or R1 you get the 
 idea but still it doesn't save the game, although been able to fight lizard man and well gangstas 
 and the king pin was fun yet again it doesn't save the game.: ( 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpo911
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 5, 2008 3:16 am PT
Review:  the game is fun on its own way but its not a game where you feel WOW!!!!!!!!! I am spider-man. spider-man 
 is like a tiny dot in the middle when you swing through the city. Its like LOOK THERE IS SPIDER-MAN 
 CAN YOU SEE HIM instead off im spier-man and people hell whoah yeah go spidey!
  You know I want to see my character clearly, I want the fighting system changed, I want to feel im 
 the hero, everyone must hell go spidey, that button pushing thing must be there when someone falls 
 AND IT WOULD BE VERY COOL IF IT WAS BASED ON THE MOVIE. Exactly based on the movie .Harry the new 
 Hob Goblin didnt even die like in the movie.
  
  If the next game contains all that goods ill be the first one buyin it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naughtydogmania
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 22, 2007 1:59 pm PT
Review:  As in the other Spider-Man games from the previous movies, Spider-Man 3 lets you swing in the city 
 of NY. 
  THAT is the greatest thing in the game!
  
  But there are other good things like...:
  - The light is much more realistic in this game!
 
  - The Music is (in some cases...) the same as in the movie, which is great, specially the black 
 suited spider-man theme!
  - The button sequences are great, they remind God of War!
  - You have lots of things to do like racing, sky-diving and bomb tours
  - Playing with the symbiont 
 is always great...
  - The many different enemies from the comic books with new looks!
  
  Now the bad thing... the ones that give this game a medium rate...:
  - The combat system is weak, 
 mostly button-smashing style (when I played this game I was scared that i might brake the controller...)
 
  - The sequences are great but their very quick, so to complete a sequence you have to repeat them 
 a lot of times (specially in the last sequence against venom...)
  - The movies are horrible, they look like PS2 graphics...
  - The camera is very annoying, but 
 that's normal in this type of games...
  - Although the swinging is good, the crawling is bad: sometimes you don't know if your in the right 
 position or if your upside down... 
  - The game isn't hard for regular gamers but for those who don't usually play it may be difficult 
 to finish.
  - ... so there should be a difficulty choice (easy, normal, hard)
  - If it's a game why did they cut things from the movie, if it was the other way around I would 
 have understand, because movies have their limits... but games!...
  - this game is to be played once, although the possibility of playing with black-suited spider-man 
 for the entire game is tempting...
  - the dialogs aren't very convincing, and if you have played heavenly sword before... it's going 
 to seem even worse!
  
  I think I said it all!
  If I didn't I'll edit later!
  Sorry if you didn't understand something...
  This is your host NaughtydogMania in his third review!!!
 
  
  PLZ comment this review in:
  
  http://www. gamespot. com/users/naughtydogmania/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25258793
  
 
  (one of my blog posts...) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofycoco
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  Lets get things straight, I bought this game's collectors edition becayse I was so happy to have 
 it, shamely its not that good. The gameplay its kind of mediocre at some times but its good sometimes. 
 The story is the best part because it has several different storylines with old Spider-Man villinas 
 ( Kingpin, Rhino, Scorpion, Lizard, and the ones of the film) . The worst thing are the graphics! 
 This is a PS3 game! The graphics are horrible! They look very freakish. In the end the games plays 
 ok, has a nice story, but looks ulgy. Also one of the best parts is to swing around the streets 
 of NY and has always been lots of fun. The bad things about the stories are that they don't tie 
 to the film very well and you just want to play the movie but you can't and it is frustarting. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 3.5
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:55 pm PT
Review:  hmm even though this reveiw is kinda late
  well ill say spider man when i got it had its looks
  fighting was ok i didnt have problems with 
 the camera (most of the time)
  basically it got frustraiting and glitches got annoying!!!!
  it basically wore down after a week
  the only thing i find doing with it is swinging over and 
 over to pass time
  not to fight evil do-ERS or help an old lady get her purse back
  
  well i got to admit i like the free roaming new york
  GET THE COLLECTORS it has that goblin guy 
 umm the new one
  and i also admit that i like swinging around not having to do anything
  swing swing swing SHUT!!! game freezes and i go play something else
  
  if i have anything to 
 say about sp3
  is that its not worth buying 
  and movie games ususally never are
  
  -chainblade 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CNS93
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 30, 2007 5:07 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 was a great game. The graphics are amazing. The different attacks make you experiment 
 with every single one. Exploring the city is a great way to pass the time. The gameplay is good 
 and there are many tasks to do. The boss fights are good cuz you have to use a strategy in order 
 to beat them like the lizard. For the most part the game keeps you entertained until the end of 
 the game. The only problem I had was that this game was too short. Other than that it was great. 
 It may not be the best in the series, but it still is entertaining. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chapel18
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  Yes, i knew it was a movie based game when i got it but what can i say im a spider-man junkie. 
 Swinging around the rooftops of new york is like a dream come true. The story is pretty decent 
 and offers a lot to do around the city. The graphics are good enough, and heck, even the voice 
 acting is passible. In the end though, there is no excuse for this game.
  
  By this generation of consoles, developers should be able to get a camera right. The camera bounces 
 around so much I thought I was having seizures at times.
  
  The combos are slightly delayed from the button pressing, which can lead to many missed hits and 
 more than a few times the combos keep going after you stop pressing. Gotta love being left wide 
 open to hits from behind.
  
  Spider sense... while working great in spider-man 2 is all messed up in this installment. the icons 
 appear over the enemies' heads not spider-mans and the sense button needs pressed well prior to 
 the attack or it doesnt dodge.
  
  Perhaps one of my biggest gripes, though, is that i constantly got my butt handed to me by girls. 
 Did i forget to use my spider-strength or what?
  
  All in all its fun swinging around and is a rental at best. The sloppiness has potential to keep 
 even hardcore spider-man fans away though.
  
  i've played this a little more since i wrote this review and i must say... im trying to like it... i 
 force myself to play... yes i hafta force myself bc the more i play this game... the more i hate 
 it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woofie13
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game, I had high expectations. I had remembered how much I loved playing 
 Spiderman 2 and all the new things it had to offer. I expected this one to be like it except with 
 better, gameplay, better graphics, and extended gameplay.
  To my surprise this game got a little worse in each area. okay so maybe the graphics look a little 
 better, but they seem more glitchy this time around.
  Spiderman 3 has brought this franchise to somewhat less of run-of-the-mill.
  I was let down by 
 it's choppy gameplay and animations.
  Swinging around the city never gets old, but this time around the control scheme has been altered 
 to make it less enjoyable. It's harder to swing fast and fun like the previous game.
  
  voice acting is alright, and the characters seem somewhat dememted... even in the cut scenes. The 
 God of war rip-off scenes arn't enjoyable either... it's as if they molded spiderman 2 into something 
 not near as fun.
  It looks like they rushed a lot to get this game done with.
  
  I would recommend that if anyone wants to get this game, that they should just get Spiderman 2, 
 it trumps this game in almost every aspect.
  
  gameplay - 5 repetitive
  controls- 5 a lot worse than before.
  sound- 8 a little better than before
  graphics- 6 everyone 
 looks deformed, it has improved a little though
  value- 5.5 I wish that this game were funner
  Overall- 6
  
  I feel as if they tweeked this 
 game up a bit it could be fun, but they didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is a great game has few glitches , but the game itself isnt so bad.
  
  1st Swingging through Manhatten is great , the city looks big and its hard to find any tokens . 
 But the visuals disagin itself is freakin . But they did make Spidey look the best. The combos ar 
 great i dont know what Alex Navvro said bout the combosbut they ar the only thing that is the best 
 part of the game.
  
  2ndThe enemis ar like pumkin dolls they ar like to kill a dead man which means u kill them and 
 u still feel like they were already dead. The boss fights ar decent ( the sandman was the hardest 
 when u play as Harry)
  
  Overall the game is good it didnt disapoint me . But its definitly doesnt desrve a 6.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thadinomaster
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 11:04 pm PT
Review:  Okay, welcome to my review!
  
  First off all, i got my PS3 today, and this is my first game for it, so excuse me if i rate this good 
 because i haven't played better games yet!
  
  
  
  Let's start..
  
  Graphics:
  I personally love the graphics, At night, the lights in the buildings are very smooth and not pixelated, as 
 you do get with a few games.
  
  As for Spider-Man, i'm not too sure, If you zoom in on his back (Stand with your back at a wall and 
 turn the camera, you'll prob see it) You can see the red Spider has the pattern that is on the blue 
 parts of his suit, and that wasn't in the movie.
  
  Cars and people walking around, i give it a +, i really like how the cars are done, but, there are 
 only a few different cars, which is too bad...
  
  Camera:
  Good while swinging and walking and fighting, but crawling... It gets kinda flippy when you turn 
 around alot in walls..
  
  Music/sound:
  I love the narrator AKA Bruce Cambell, well, who doesn't?
  Jonah's voice is amazing also, and so 
 is Spidey's, but i'm not really sure on MJ yet...
  
  The music is something i don't like, i think it would be better if they would use the 'Spider-Man 
 Movie Theme' Instead of the one they use now..
  
  And i dislike rock songs when i crime is happening
  
  And i dislike the song when you knocked 
 some criminals down and get such a health boost
  
  Gameplay:
  Good, the swinging around town is good to do, if you put the music off, and swing slowely, you just 
 get relaxed!
  
  Or when music is at maximum and swing fast, your the number one crime fighter in town, allways looking 
 for crimes!
  
  Battle's are nice to do, very fun!
  
  Nice attacks etc..
  
  Final Word:
  
  Okay, i really love this game, and i'm giving it nothing less then 8.5!
  
 
  I think i aid all that i had to say, so enjoy the game, and see you later! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CC-ledges1
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 22, 2007 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is the latest video game from the multi-million dollar superhero franchise. It is 
 inspired from the movie by director Raimi; of the same name. Whilst Spiderman, 2, and Ultimate 
 Spider-Man were hugely fun games in my views, Spider-Man 3 is still a good game, but could have 
 been better. Lets start off with the positive things of this game. The game looks spectacular on 
 the next-generation hardware, and swinging around New York as our misunderstood hero looks great. 
 The quick time events are generic, but have some variety, and even feel inspired. You don't have 
 to complete all of the missions in this title, because all the other Spider-Man video game titles, 
 required you to complete every single adventure, and it is nice that the game doesn't force you 
 to do everything. There are more combat moves in this game. Despite, it may be too muched, they 
 are exceedingly helpful in struggling boss battles.
  
  Here are the levels that Spider-Man 3 could have exceled on a little more. The plot in the game 
 doesn't really expand on the plot of the film, because of a lot of events and story arcs happening 
 in the game. The graphics, even though look great, don't look identical to the heroes and villians 
 in the film. The quests in this game are OK, but mostly the same, like beating up thugs. If you 
 like Spider-Man, then, you might be pleased. Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crusher97
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 1:12 am PT
Review:  as much as i don`t like this version of the game its better on this format it has got a better 
 storyline/longer story but it gets better at the end then i makes you think (WOW this is pretty 
 repetitive but i want to get the new goblin so i will keep playing) the only reason i kept playing 
 it was to unlock things and to see the ending witch was a let down as well but but but before you 
 burn this game it is the best on PS3 so definitely stay away from ps2 version and keep playing 
 and listening to crushers reviews da da da da da and cut 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoF1
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 23, 2007 10:47 am PT
Review:  Im a Spider-Man fan and I enjoyed Spider-Man 2 so I bought Spider-Man 3 for my PS3.
  
  The graphics aren't bad. Good animations, awful faces and characters and some bugs. They are a 
 bit disappointing.
  The gameplay is good. Amazing sensation when you are swinging in the city of New York, but the 
 combat sistem is all around button-smashing. Oh my poor controller!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  The sound is good, good soundtrack, sound efects and characters respective voices, altought the 
 dialogues doesnt be very convicing.
  The game is a bit short, only 13 hours and is completed. Spider-Man 2 was bigger.
  The game has-Good 
 things like:- The light is much more realistic in this game!
  - The Music is (in some cases) the same as in the movie, which is great, specially the black suited 
 Spider-Man theme!
  - The button sequences are great, they remind God of War!
  - You have lots of things to do like racing, sky-diving and bomb tours.
  - Playing with the symbiont 
 is always great!
  - The many different enemies from the comic books with new looks!
  and...
  Bad things like:
  - The combat system is weak, mostly button-smashing style.
  - The 
 sequences are great but their very quick, so to complete a sequence you have to repeat them a lot 
 of times (specially in the last sequence against venom) .
  - The movies are horrible, they have PS2 graphics.
  - The camera is very annoying, but that's 
 normal in this type of games.
  - Although the swinging is good, the crawling is bad: sometimes you don't know if your in the right 
 position or if your upside down. 
  - The game isn't hard for regular gamers but for those who don't usually play it may be difficult 
 to finish... so there should be a difficult choice (easy, normal or hard) .
  - If it's a game why did they cut things from the movie, if it was the other way around I would 
 have understand, because movies have their limits, but games!...
  - This game is to be played once!
  - The dialogs aren't very convincing.
  Many errors make 
 Spider-Man 3 an average game only for Marvel or Spider-Man fans, like me.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: X-5
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 22, 2007 2:41 am PT
Review:  Before I start, I just want to say one thing. Stay away from the PS2/Wii version. It is obvious 
 that the developer's devotion has been all directed to the PS3/PC/X360 Version, which I am about 
 to review.
  
  So now, when things are more clear, let the review begin!
  
  When I first saw screenshots &amp; videos of the PS3/PC/X360 version, I thought: man, this game 
 in itself is probably a great reason to buy a PS3 . And boy, how right I was! This game is probably 
 the best Spidey game so far. Perhaps the strongest point of the game is swinging around NYC. as 
 in the other most recent Spider-Man games, Spidey hangs on actual buildings, not on the air . Not 
 only that, but now our friendly neighborhood can also swing from two different web lines, which 
 means you're not going to enter allies you don't want to enter. If that's not enough, the city 
 in the game is huge. So huge, in fact, that you'll have to spend days, if not weeks, exploring 
 it all. that's not necessarily a good thing, though. Due to the fact that this is a free roaming 
 game, every single mission is located at a certain part of the city, and sometimes, it will take 
 a few long minutes to get to that location. The combat, on the other hand, is necessarily a good 
 thing. In the red-blue suit, it's real plain fun and Spidey has dozens of moves and abilities, 
 such as the Spider Reflex  A spidey version of the Matrix's Bullet time, and don't forget the 
 fact that you have allot of web attacks and air attacks. In the Symbiote  or black suit , it's 
 just getting better. Your fighting style changes and becomes more violent . Speaking of becoming 
 a villain, graphically, this is the process this game series has been going through. Spider-Man 
 Movie was a great-looking game for its time, and even today, it still can be considered as a good-looking 
 game. It's a different story in the 3rd game, though. Sure, there are some nice visual effects 
 like the water effect and a few others, but those are an exception. Overall, this game rocks, but 
 is not perfect. Even though you have tones of attacks to choose from, a combat will sometimes end 
 up as a button mashing sequence. If things like that doesn't interrupt you, here's a great game 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 8:07 pm PT
Review:  .Spider-Man 3 is boring, and has horrible visuals, graphics dont stand up to the potential of the 
 ps3 , not even at 1% of the cell power.
  .Gameplay is the only aspect in which spiderman 3 can be rated, swinging through NYC can be a lot 
 of fun, but that&acute; s it.
  .Speaking about graphics, LOTS of frame rate problems, and glitches, NYC look good but graphics 
 could have been 10 times better.
  .The game doesnt follow an order, you choose what mission to play, and the story isnt like the 
 movie specially because of that.
  .We all understand that Multi-platform games arent the best, but this one really isnt at the level 
 i thought it was
  .In conclusion If you really love Spider-Man games and movies, and you are a huge fan perhaps you 
 should find it attractive, if you are going to buy a game, just because you want to play something, 
 dont buy it, save your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2007 7:27 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Lengthier adventure than previous games, nice visuals, challenging boss fights, and fun 
 web-slinging action.
  
  THE BAD: Weak combat system, bad camera angles, and sluggish frame rates.
  
  Spider-Man 3 may 
 not be too different from past installments, but it is still worth checking out.
  
  GAMEPLAY is good. Everyones favorite friendly neighborhood Spider-Man is back for another web-slinging 
 adventure. The latest game follows the story of the third film; however, it adds even more villains 
 and never really spoils anything for players whom have yet to see the movie. The overall mechanics 
 are the same as previous Spider-Man games, but there are some differences. The combat system is 
 slightly tweaked with the new ability to slow down time to dodge enemy attacks. Additionally, there 
 are button matching sequences that are fantastic to watch albeit sometimes difficult to perform 
 on the first try. The game also relies less on using web based moves which in previous games were 
 definitely the primary method of attack. Instead, the game now focuses more on combos to perform 
 powerful animated attacks that look quite impressive. Moreover, fighting the bad guys isnt the 
 only thing to do in Spider-Man 3. Spidey spends a lot of time a preventing crime, snapping photos 
 for the Daily Bugle, and taking Mary Jane on romantic rides around the city. Web-slinging around 
 New York City is better than ever although at the cost of losing some frame rates.
  
  GRAPHICS are great. Tobey Maguire and Kirsten Dunst in particular never looked quite right in the 
 first two games, but they and everyone else actually match their movie counterparts. The traditional 
 Red and Black Spider-Man costumes are detailed and look especially cool. New York City is also 
 very nice and feels just as grand as ever. The only graphical complaints are the bland looking 
 civilians and thugs as well as the sometimes boring level designs.
  
  SOUND is solid. Unlike previous games, most of the movies cast lent their voice talent this time 
 around with above par performances. The soundtrack is also note worthy, although to be fair it 
 can become repetitive especially when stuck on a frustrating challenge or boss fight.
  
  VALUE is decent. To its credit, Spider-Man 3 is a lot longer than other Spider-Man games. It clocks 
 in at around 12-15 hours which is almost double the length of previous installments. There is not 
 much do after completing game; however, there is an option to replay the game entirely in the more 
 powerful Black Spider-Man Suit.
  
  Overall Spider-Man 3 is a worthwhile adventure for fans of the series. Although it does improve 
 on some aspects of previous games namely graphics and web-slinging, it does suffer from a not fully 
 defined combat system, terrible camera system and frequent frame-rate issues. However, despite 
 its shortcomings, Spider-Man 3 is still recommendable to anyone who enjoyed previous Spider-Man 
 games and makes for a great weekend rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 10, 2007 4:30 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the missions arent always spectacular but this is still a great game. The city is huge and 
 its great fun to swing around, takes a fair ammount of time to complete the story and there are 
 a hell of alot side missions/ tokens to collect/ arena mode.
  
  Includes such villians as King Pin, Lizard, Scorpian, Rhino, Sandman.
  
  No two player or online 
 mode but really, would you expect it from a game like this.
  
  There are alot of differances between this version and the PS2 version, hell its like a compleley 
 different game.
  
  This game will keep you occupied for quite a while. Well worth getting, the combat is cool, you 
 can do some nice moves especially with the black suit.
  
  A must have for Spiderman fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firefighter111
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 for PS3 is great (I have the collectors edition) , and I only have two minor problems 
 with it. The first is that you HAVE to play the side missions in order to advance in the movie 
 story line, where as it was said you wouldn't have to. My second problem is that if you play as 
 the New Goblin, he cant get off his skystick. This is a major problem for inside areas, such as 
 going down into the subways and inside Harry's penthouse (which is complete with main room and 
 the room hidden behind the mirror.) I also think that for the next spiderman game (if there is 
 one) , that they should do alot more with the inside enviorments, such as they could have included 
 Harry's whole penthouse and not just two rooms. The game is still great improvement over spiderman 
 2 and I like that after you unlock the black suit, you can play the whole game as the black suit. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chrismarra1
Rating: 0
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:24 pm PT
Review:  okay. so i love spiderman and the spiderman series, but this game makes me sad. the graphics are 
 pretty good, but that is about it to me. the intro and beggining is very boring and made me want 
 to stop right then and there. i must admit that it was a decently challenging game. the spider 
 features that you can do grow old very fast, which makes the person playing want to stop. some 
 glitches made me angry, like when you press a button to swing for instance, it is delayed, making 
 you crash on the ground or dying from an enemy. i would definetly and no doubt rent this game first. 
 if you like go ahead and buy it. i can see why some people would like it. overall the game was 
 okay at best, and recieves a thumbs down from me. i hope they do not make a spidey 4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teewii
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 5:38 am PT
Review:  when u play this game you get the feeling that activision had to release this game at the same 
 time as the movie, but they didnt finish it. The graphics in cutscenes are really bad, and isnt 
 what u expect from a next gen game. although, the game looks kinda nice at daytime, but when its 
 dark, spider-man just looks like a red and blue guy, with no details.
  
  The story in this game is a total disaster. i bought the game before i saw the movie, and then 
 the story mode makes no sense whatsoever. when he gets the black suit, hes just lying in his bed 
 saying murderer , and then this symbiote takes him over... wtf?? anyway, its about ten different 
 stories, and none of them are espessially incouraging...
  
  The gameplay is pretty much the same throughout the whole game... as you progress through the story 
 mode, u discover u just do the exact same things over and over. By that i mean: swing to a place 
 located on your map, then beat up some bad guys (which is more exiting with the black suit) and 
 then youre finished. But i got to say the swinging is the best part of this game, but they could 
 have added a few more animations. When they tried to do something different with the popup button 
 secquences, it just turns out wrong.. u will find yourself doing these over and over again.
  But the worst part of they game play, has got to be the bossfights. omg!! they are so irritating, 
 if u played the game u know what i mean...
  
  The framerate in this game isnt good, and the camera is the worst badguy. when youre crawling on 
 a wall, or on the celing, its just impossible to controle.
  
  so this game is not a great game. the gameplay repeats, and the graphics is nothing like next gen. 
 The swinging saves this game from a disaster. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 7.1
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:41 pm PT
Review:  Spider-man 2.... remember swingin from the buildings of New York freely for the first time?
  Remember Ultimate Spiderman? how they re used it but kinda crapped it up a bit but used venopm 
 to distract you from it's flaws?
  Now remember Spiderman 3? yea the 3rd game thats using the swinging engine yet again, and to be 
 frank, its getting pretty boring. The game is called Spiderman 3, it's supposed to be about the 
 movie right? but instead the developers only had at least 5 missions that have to do with the movie, 
 sure it's cool seeing The Lizard and Kraven for the first time on the game, but what about more 
 Venom and Sandman love? how about more random crimes that come up more often instead of every 30 
 minutes? most of these flaws have ruined the game... oh and not to mention the bad fighting. not 
 enough moves, but you only need one combo to actually beat the game.
  The game is long enough to satisfy and swinging through a very detailed New York is exhilirating, 
 but this is wasted on crappy character models, bad storyline, bad fighting and cheapy voice acting.
 
  Overall, its satisfying, but it could have been much, much better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 6.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  After playing and loving Spider-Man 2 for the PS2, I couldn't wait to get ahold of Spider-Man 3 
 when it came out. Fortunately my local retailers didn't get the game the day it came out and I 
 read the Gamespot review in time. Because of the review I held off on the game and got it on Ebay 
 for half-price. For $30, I can recommend checking out the game, although it is majorly flawed. 
 Let's begin:
  
  Graphically, Spider-Man 3 looks very good. NYC looks beautiful and characters have a fair amount 
 of detail to them. The greatest aspect of the game is swinging through the city. Unfortunately, 
 things fall apart fast for Spidey.
  
  The combat system in the game is completely un-fun. It is very clunky, is basically just button-mashing 
 with no rhyme or reason, and when fighting some boss-type characters, the combat is extremely frustrating. 
 It took me about 20 times just to beat some girl with a mallet b/c of how she blocks everything. 
 You do have a spidey-sense which allows you to counter-attack moves in slow-motion which greatly 
 helps out battles but it only lasts for so long before it is gone. You are also armed with speed-super-moves 
 which allow for fast, multiple attacks once your meter is charged but sometimes for no reason these 
 moves won't hurt enemies, making them fairly useless.
  
  Now, my two biggest gripes with the game. ONE: There are WAY TOO MANY cut-scene button sequences 
 in this game. Where Resident Evil 4 and God of War got it right, Spider-Man 3 gets it all wrong. 
 It seems like there's always sequential button sequences in the game and if you get the sequence 
 wrong you have to replay the area until you get it right. This really takes away from the pacing 
 of the game and could have been utilized a bit more sparingly.
  TWO: Once you decide to crawl along a wall, kiss the camera goodbye. When clinging to walls/ceiling/etc 
 the camera is so awful you'll go out of your way to avoid walls. It's really that bad!!!
  
  On to the voice work. Bruce Campbell begins the game by narrating you through a tutorial. I found 
 it very humorous and a good start to the game. Tobey Maguire does some good voice work for Spidey, 
 but there's scenes where you'll take MJ on a web ride through the city and she is simply obnoxious 
 to listen to. Harry sounds very stiff as a character, but overall the voice work in the game isn't 
 too bad.
  
  The game does offer plenty of replay value in that there's plenty to do and find throughout the 
 city. The game is also loaded with TONS of Marvel villains which makes the game a bit more enjoyable.
 
  
  If I had paid full price for this game, I would have a very hard time recommending it, but the 
 game can be a fun experience at times. It's a shame that the camera can get in the way and that 
 the combat is lackluster b/c this could have been a much better game. Here's hoping for a rock 
 solid Spidey game one day. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinBoy
Rating: 1
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:43 am PT
Review:  oloh, mulo-mulo kawe maing ingat ko sedak. pah wo tigo minit, stak nok braso puah. doh la grafik bodo, wak 
 malu ko Sony cipto PS3. gamba po zame jakpa tonggek. baik aku maing PS1. dok game TB hok guno tape. ore 
 hak wak game ni meme otok seweiiii la, tok reti nok memenuhi kehendak pelanggan. cikgu aku hok tok 
 minat maing game pung bengong tengok game ni. memey geyloooooooo la! beyci aku! very stupidooooo, ore 
 Klate hok paling ganah dale dunio pung otok maing game nih. muzik pung slow nok mapuh, jatuh jarum 
 pung aku tok dengar. hehehe. tergurau la plok. demo kenal Apih? Apih hok takdok citaraso pung nok gilo 
 maing game ni. ho na nok oyak, abe Apih masuk Bintang Klasik RTM. mai kito pakak kelih ramai-ramai. akhir 
 kata dari saya, majulah sukan untuk negara. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: np1001
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is so awesome I didn't even rent i just bought and I loved it SO much. I mean Swinging 
 around on webs to shooting bad guys with webs too climbing on the side of buildings. This game 
 is just plain fun. I did not even see one flaw to it at all! It was so worth my money! I hope they 
 make the game Spider Man 4. I WILL SO BUY IT! If you are a Big Spider Man fan like me then I HIGH-LEY 
 recommend this game to you. I gave it a 10.0 because there is simply no flaws i didnt see one! 
 I am so happy i bought this game ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: d_garza2242
Rating: 6.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 1:05 pm PT
Review:  Spider Man 3 is what you come to expect out of movie based games. There not that good and they're 
 just ok. There's a total of 42 missions which are pretty easy but gets a bit harder as you progress. 
 The free roaming element they have is probably the best part of this game. I found myself just 
 roaming around the city of New York which for me was pretty addicting. There are tokens all over 
 New York and I managed to find some but I really don't care for finding them I just like roaming 
 around and so will you. The more you roam there wil soon be trouble that you may or may not have 
 to fix it. That includes just find bad or chasing cars and stuff like that. The gameplay mechanics 
 I wasn't to fond of. I really didn't like the fact that you couldn't press a bit to do the web 
 balls or dome like in previous versions. In order to do that you have to do combos. This wasn't 
 the best fighting system either. You just find yourself button mashing threw the whole game. The 
 graphics for this game were ok but could have been a bit better. I felt that the characters of 
 this game were like made out of plastic so I didn't like that. I didn't really have a frame rate 
 problem so that was good. The city looks really nice. The draw distance is ok but when your roaming 
 you'll see it working.
  
  I didn't really have a problem with the sound except for that the characters mainly repeat themselfs 
 to much. It also for me seems like the recycled some of the sound in previous versions. The camera 
 is the biggest flaw to this game. This camera gets wild. It is a horrible camera. When your crawling 
 on walls it is the worst as it can get. You will hate this camera as well but your going to have 
 to live with it.
  
  Overall this was like i said a movie based game. If your all for roaming around being spiderman 
 than you will enjoy it. But if not you might want to rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boy_Man07
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:47 am PT
Review:  After Spiderman 2, wich was a great game, the idea of playing Spiderman 3, in the next-generation 
 platforms, was very exciting. Well, just the idea. In the beginning of the game, you can see that 
 the graphics are not good. It looks like a PS2 game, though, NYC looks good (just NYC) . But it's 
 O. K., i forgive the graphics. Then, you start playing the game. And you see that the camera is 
 not good too (when you climb a wall, or do something like that, it's horrible, crazy camera) ... maybe 
 i'll forgive this too. The combat system is almost the same it was in Spiderman 2, though, there 
 are more combos: you hit a bad guy and the others wait for you. You can think: oh, but this happened 
 in the PS2 too, and Spiderman 2 was a PS2 game and was great . Yeah, but the problem is that we're 
 not playing a PS2 game, we're playing a PS3 game, and this combat system should have been improved, 
 just like the sound. There are, sometimes, music in the game, what is a problem, because when you 
 swing through the city, there's no music, nothing. Well, i can't forgive everything in this game, 
 because almost everything is not good. Graphics, sound, gameplay... they're all crap. But wait, 
 Spiderman 3 is an enjoyable game... for some time. Swinging through New York City is as great as 
 always, and the city is bigger now. So, as you can expect, there are more missions. This should 
 be a good thing but... well, some of them are kind of boring and repetitive. But, at least, there 
 are more missions. The story, wich is great in the film, is something crazy here in the game... the 
 missions and stories in the game do not fit with the story in the film. Oh, and before i forget, 
 there frame-rate problems, lots of them. I am very disappointed with this game, because it had 
 potential to be a good game. Unfortunately, we'll have to wait and see if the next Spiderman game 
 will be good again, and then, maybe, we can forgive and forget Spiderman 3.
  
  Graphics: they look like a PS2 game.
  Sound: O. K.... when you hear something.
  Gameplay: the 
 camera is horrible when you climb something... when you're not climbing, it is O. K., though, it 
 can usually piss you off in the battles. there are more combos, what is a good thing. In my first 
 hours playing this game, i thought it would be as good as Spiderman 2. At least, it had the same 
 formula. I forgived the graphics, and the sound. And i played it... but then i realized it was getting 
 boring. When i think: oh, maybe today... i will play Spiderman 3 and swing through the city! . But 
 then, i remember: i'll be bored easily. So, this game is interesting in the beginning, but after 
 a few hours, it gets boring. Rent it first. You'll be disappointed like me. I'm a big fan of Spiderman, 
 and that's why i loved one thing in this game: swing through the city is amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim-pagey
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 has great graphics of new york city, and and being able to climb to the top of the 
 empire state building is great. however spiderman 3 does have its let downs, the stroylines are 
 all mixed up which sometimes makes it confusing, overall the game is too short and is easy at most 
 parts. Although the camera angles can some times be annoying after a while you get used to it.
 
  
  The black suit makes the game better aswell by making you more powerfull
  
  overal this game could of been great if the storylines were not mixed up and was not as short. 
 if your not a huge spiderman fan then rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Urlacher54
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:14 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely not as good as it could have been or should have been, but I don't think 
 it is as terrible as most people seem to think it is. It definitely needed some more time in development 
 and suffers from having to be released along with the movie. Mostly, it is just irritating bugs, 
 glitches and balancing issues that drag the game down, because if you eliminate all of those, this 
 would easily be a solid game. Graphics are a little weak considering that its a next-gen title, 
 but it is much sharper and more detailed than the PS2 games. Early on, the game is alot of fun. 
 Combat is easy, as you'll be knocking out thugs with simple, stylish combos. But later on, the 
 bad guys begin blocking every one of your attacks and fights just become ridiculously repetitive 
 and long. The game does a much better job at showcasing Spidey's agility and powers than previous 
 games. The Spider-sense feature is a cool new addition, as it highlights enemies in red, allies/civillians 
 in green, and objectives/hints in yellow. You can also slow down time which will allow Spidey to 
 automatically dodge incoming attacks. However, once you've drained you Spidey-sense, you will have 
 to wait for it to recharge, leaving you with NO defense against attack. Personally, I prefered 
 SM2's system, that would flash the wiggley Spidey-sense lines around his head and you would just 
 have to quickly hit the dodge button to avoid attacks.
  
  Webswinging is still fun, but it lacks the awe factor of the second game. I don't like that they 
 now require you to hold down the button, since you can no longer be holding one webline with one 
 hand then shoot another web line with your other hand. The acrobatic tricks were overhauled so 
 that each face button has a corresponding trick so that you can string them together in any order 
 you wish. But you have to press several buttons before being able to perform the tricks, which 
 makes means I usually just ended up doing some ugly aerial attack instead. Webswinging also feels 
 a little less precise.
  
  The high point of the game is probably the new mission set up since you will no longer be stuck 
 doing the same thing over and over again. Missions will pop up as you swing through the city that 
 you can choose to take or ignore, and every mission is a little different. Some of the later missions 
 can be way too difficult and unbalanced however. Also, there are only about 4 missions in the whole 
 game that are taken from the movie! WTF?! And they don't fit in very well with the rest of the 
 game either. In fact, the whole story feels extremely fragmented and disjoint.
  
  Some of the missions are really fun, however, and there are some cool boss battles. And I liked 
 the context-sensitive minigames. They could have used a little more polish and it would have been 
 nice to have a little warning before they happened or a little more time to react to them when 
 they do happen, but overall, I think they added to the gameplay instead of detracting from it.
 
  
  Again, the game could have been very good if not for painful bugs and glitches that just go to 
 show that the game was not really finished. Another month or two at the studio, and this could 
 have become a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vmaster1993
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  I have the collecters edition and i must say for a Spider-Man game it's truly amazing! the graphics 
 are much much much much much........ better than the crappy PS2 and Wii versions. The gameplay 
 is soooo fun. I personally like the combat. all those different moves really gives u a different 
 aproach of the game. The random missions also r very much improved from SM2 and SM3 for PS2 and 
 Wii, (delivering fruit pies, thats soo stupid) you should really buy this amazing game.
  
  P. S
  2 all u PS3 owners out there plz add me/ send me a friend request
  heres my online ID
 
  
  OBLIVenomION
  
  PLZ and THNX 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameCaller
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I dont see anything wrong with the game, its very nice, very good textures, graphics, its just 
 very good! Excellent game ,Just like Pete's decent into darkness, This game goes south so slowly 
 that it's hard to notice at first. The game opens up with Bruce Campbell acting as our familiar 
 narrator and walking Spidey through his new found controls. Ol' web-head can now web zip with one 
 button and Spider-Reflexes allow the wall-crawler to slow time and counter attacks with a single 
 button press. You get the basics down while saving some folks from a fire, and you're let loose 
 in New York. Its just a very good game that should get awarded. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CyKoTerry
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 8:33 am PT
Review:  This is the best spiderman game in the series, but in spots still feels like its missing some things, 
 as far as i can tell you cant get to the statue of liberty like you could in spiderman 2 (i could 
 be wrong) you cant jump off walls while sliding down them and the PS3 version looks like its missing 
 some textures in a few places compared to the 360 version. it feels a bit repeditive in places. 
 the collectors edition doesn't have that much more to offer, yeah you get the new goblin as a playable 
 character but there's not much to do with him besides a few races and the occasional criminal. 
 On to the good stuff, when playing as spiderman, your movemets as you swing through the city seem 
 so much like the movie, it gives you a feeling of it being more real. the detail in spiderman himself 
 is really good, the draw distance is amazing you can pretty much see the whole city from where 
 ever you are, the city itself feels like its to scale percecty with the real thing. and i love 
 the amont of traffic you see driving around.
  
  All in all i think this game is great for the fans, but if your unsure about it maybe hire it out 
 first to see if you like it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrnesi
Rating: 7.3
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:19 pm PT
Review:  Well i suppose we better start. I'm slightly disappointed again that Activision have decided not 
 to put a multiplayer format into the spiderman game franchise. Although i have always had a fun 
 and exciting time playing the spiderman games, they don't excite me for a long duration of time 
 and i find myself getting bored within the first 30 minutes of playing the game. Saying this the 
 game does have some great things to keep you busy and supposedly excited. For example the mini 
 fights you can get into when fighting gangs. This feature is handy because it gives you as a beginner 
 to the game a chance to learn all of the techniques involved when fighting. The silly thing about 
 te game is the idea of pressing buttons to avoid objects, i don't have a clue why Activision put 
 it in because i feel its just stupid and wierd. I really hate the feature because you can just 
 happily be playing one minutes and it suddenly will put you into it, giving you about a second 
 to respond and press the buttons. The fighting i find is fine although gamespot rated the fighting 
 low and a bad point about the game, i personally just like to perform random moves and kill the 
 living day lights out of an enemy. The only bad point about the fighting is that you always have 
 to dodge. I think Activision have gone a-bit over the top with this becasue as spiderman you don't 
 want to dodge you want to kick some scum ass. Saying this the game seems to be really easy even 
 on the PS2 version when you can change the setting. The swinging and the city looks mainly same 
 as in the first and the second spiderman but with way better graphics and a few extra buildings 
 here and there. i'd just like to say that this game did excite me for a bit and i thought that 
 the game was good for those short moments. The graphics on a whole are ok but on the characters 
 themselves they are terrible. I think the game sounds brilliant with all of the cast being there 
 with exception of Mary Jane. The dissapointing thing about the voices was that not all of them 
 sounded hugly excited about the game and about playing the part in the game, and some even sounded 
 bored. I think overall this game is a good game to buy for the short term but for the long term 
 its one to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kaine666_2
Rating: 6
Date: Jul 1, 2007 9:29 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 had a really big hype and expectation when the film was close to release, but Im afraid 
 it didn't live up to this hype and here is why;
  Swinging around the virtual and beautiful New York city is great for a while, as it was in Spiderman 
 2 but that gets boring after a while, and you want to try some missions, some of the missions are 
 fun but of course some are bad. The missions are comprised of the film plot, with loosely cut together 
 missions that barely make a plot for the game and made up missions to add length to the game and 
 some activities like skydiving and disarming bombs. The graphics are standard and worse then some 
 older games that was release over a year ago e. g. Metal gear solid 3 and God of war although spiderman's 
 model looks surprisingly Ok, if you were to play this game i'd rent it or you will feel even more 
 disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zak_ps3
Rating: 5.3
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:58 am PT
Review:  If you are expecting a the game to match up to the film, you will be very, very disappointed. Spiderman 
 3 is a game I can only describe as a wii game and that coming from me is a great insult. It underperforms 
 in every way, with the web swinging its only saviour. The combat in truth has no skill involved 
 and is basically a button mashers paradise. I would call Spiderman 3 a childs game. The gameplay 
 in Spiderman is basic and easy to learn it took me under 10 minutes to get to grips with the swinging, 
 not that the tutorial helps. The web swinging is a vital form of transport in the city- well its 
 the only, unless you want to spend all day going from one end to the other end of New york. With 
 saying that though the web swinging is fun and is an easy thing to do, I spent hours trying to 
 break my max. speed record and it never gets tedious.
  
  The sound and graphical side to the game is poor. I mean come on, the voice acting is bad and it 
 sounds echoey and tacked-on. Spiderman when he is swinging from building to building looks like 
 the sun in a black and white film he is so bright. From a distance the buildings seem edgy, but 
 close up they seem very smooth.
  
  The camera and framerate both need rapidly sorting. When you grab onto a building the whole objective 
 is to climb up it, but the camera spins around so much you don't know whether you're going up or 
 down. The frame rate whilst swinging also looks like an old film from the 1920's.
  
  I'd say the graphics and the name Spiderman saved it from disastrous consequences. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:57 am PT
Review:  Before this game came out, I could not think of another game I was more interested in playing. 
 As much as I loved Spider-Man 2 with the go anywhere aspect. I thought Spider-Man 3 could only 
 get better, being on a next gen system and all. Unfortunately, I was sadly mistaken.
  
  The character models of the game was probably the worst part. I mean I think PlayStation One games 
 had better graphics when it came to characters then this game. Whenever looking at any of them 
 I felt so creeped out by the freakish look of everyone. I do not remember a time I looked at Mary 
 Jane and cringed, it was so horrible. The all looked so... deformed. I have goose bumps just thinking 
 about it now. On the other hand, the city looks great! I mean GREAT! It looks so real and beautiful. 
 With reflections of the sun off buildings, giving a pretty glow. Buildings are nicely detailed, 
 the streets are jam-packed with cars and pedestrians. I started to think they took too much time 
 on making the environment look nice and forgot about the characters. Although, Spider-Man himself 
 did not look half bad, not like the others.
  
  The game play has changed a bit, some good and some very bad. I sometimes felt that the bad was 
 SO bad that it out weighed the good altogether. You have the new God of War type of game play, 
 which you have to match botton pressing with that which is on the screen. The bad however, well 
 I found trying to dodge punches was alot harder then I expected. I found Spider-Man laid out many 
 times because he does not block. You are to hit a button when a yellow icon appears over Spidey's 
 head. This is supposed to block a hit that is coming, but nine out of ten times does not work. 
 Launching me to the ground and having to start the mission over. I found jumping in, getting in 
 a few hit and jumping away the best way to take down people.
  
  The story line follows along with Spider-Man 3 the movie, just like all other Spider-Man movie 
 games it also has more to it, with other villains like Scorpion and Lizard. Although with Spider-Man 
 3 they give you the choice to do what mission and when, which take alot away from any story line 
 the game might be trying to build up. I found this to hurt the game more then helping it.
  
  Another thing, the camera views of this game seem to be worse then the others. I know the last 
 few Spider-Man games have had their problems with camera, but this time it seemed much worse. The 
 camera doesn't know how to snap behind you, so you constantly have to readjust it. Also if you 
 readjust it in a tight small area the camera goes berserk. This will give you a headache while 
 in a huge fight.
  
  The audio of the game, while alright I guess. It just seems as if everyone from the movie phoned 
 their voices in to get it done and over with. Nothing special at all. Also, Kristen Dunst does 
 not come back for the video game, but who blames her? With the mini game of taking Mary Jane wereever 
 she wants to go, all she does is boss out orders.
  Go faster! 
  Swing up really high now! 
  All very annoying, to the point of wanting to mute your television.
 
  
  The PS3 version does have the bonus of playing as The New Goblin but it is all racing around the 
 city and nothing more, as fun as it was and sixaxis well used, it was only fun for a few laps and 
 then quickly lost all interest.
  
  In conclusion, Spider-Man still has its fun of swing through New York and fighting crime. If you 
 have played either of the last to movie to video game Spider-Man games then swinging should come 
 back to you with no problem. Like riding a bike. Spider-Man 3 has its good point, but lack bad 
 in other areas to were you almost forget the good. In most ways not far different from the old 
 games, but enough to either keep you interested or... Not. I would rent this first before going 
 all out and buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kerching
Rating: 5.2
Date: Jun 19, 2007 4:19 am PT
Review:  What a dissapointment this game is. with hardly any improvement from spiderman 2 (which I thought 
 was quite good in places) the third game manages absolutly nothing different in terms of gameplay, 
 just a few more attacks for the black suited spider. The graphics are exeptionally poor in cut 
 scenes however can sometimes look just ok in game. And the cheap god of war rip off putton prompts 
 are just annoying, you carnt even see what he is doing.
  
  the only way someone will get any enjoyment out of this is if you where a spider man fan (which 
 I am) but dont expect much.
  
  This is the worst game on the PS3!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Templar94
Rating: 3.6
Date: Jun 17, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  Everyone has dreamed of it, swinging from the rooftops of New York in a sparkling red and blue 
 suit. Unfortuantley this is the closet you going to get and it dosen't really match up. Most peoples 
 faults with Spiderman 2 was the lack of variety, I myself wanted to beat that stinking girl while 
 yelling DON'T LET GO OF THE STINKING BALLON AGAIN! but this really makes it worse. Some of the 
 missions will fail you because you didn't hit the right guy and the interactive cutscenes demand 
 tedious timing and one even depends on the way the area is reacting! Admittedly you do get to see 
 most of the classic villians such as Kraven the Hunter, Scorpian, Lizard and The Lizard but this 
 isn't enough to bring this game back from the been there done that rankings. The problem with the 
 series is they take the free roam city to loosely. Some of the icons to start missions can be really 
 annoying to find then the missions themselves sometimes prove harder than the boss fights. The 
 one thing that makes me give this a higher rating is the ability to play as the new goblin exclusively 
 for the PS3 collecters edition. There you have it if you are not a hardcore spiderman fan or if 
 you want a game to replicate the movie more accurately i reccomend you leave this and pick up Spiderman: 
 The Movie (1st film game) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvuxboix
Rating: 5.7
Date: Aug 6, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man was a hero. A hero with a beautiful girlfriend and awesome movies. Now, there's a game, 
 and it lets me down completely.
  
  The gameplay is rather simple and innovative. It's just so repetitive though. The graphics are 
 definitely something worth staring at however. The sound is just the same as in the movies. Same 
 dialogue, same punching noises, same web-swinging action noises, the works. This game lets me down. 
 Spider-Man has never been so pathetic in my life. If you want to see Spider-Man in action, see 
 the movie. If you want to play Spider-Man, then go ahead, play Spider-Man 3. I must warn you however, 
 the tedium of the game may make your brain explode in anger, frustration, and boredom.
  
  I give this game a mediocre 5.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djkearse36
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 15, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  This game is ok. Pretty much Spiderman 2 really. Better graphics and even cooler buildings. There 
 are many graphic promblems. At night cars and people still disapear. The game is wayyy more frustrating 
 than it has to be. I did not finish it, i rented it and got to the Black SPiderman. Thank goodness 
 I didnt buy it... its not worth 60. Maybe 30 but not 60. The worst part about it is that its hard 
 to beat thugs sometimes in this game. I dont think that should happen, like Spiderman IN THE BEGGINING 
 takes 8 punches from thugs and you lose. WOW, I cant believe he can die to that but he can get 
 shot and clawed by lizards and live. Its confusing and frustrating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: genmonkey
Rating: 6.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 4:24 pm PT
Review:  With Treyarch at the helm for their fourth installment of the franchise on home consoles, you'd 
 be forgiven for thinking that Spiderman 3 could be a no-brainer purchase for any fans of the series. 
 Some excellent headway was made with the release of 'Spiderman 2' and 'Ultimate Spiderman' on the 
 last-generation systems, and the same design methodology has remained firmly in place for this 
 release. However, you cant help but feel there's a lot more that could be done with this license, 
 and simply upgrading an old engine and adding a barely perceptible lick of paint just doesn't cut 
 it in this day and age. If only the sales numbers would reflect that.
  
  Spiderman 3 essentially takes the mechanics from the previous titles and weaves in several new 
 storylines tied into and around the plot of the third movie. Random crimes and story-based missions 
 still remain, and you'll be using the same web-slinging mechanics from the previous games to swing 
 your way around the city, dealing with various scripted incidents along the way. All the voice 
 actors from the movie (Kirsten Dunst aside) , return to reprise their on-screen personas, with most 
 of them sounding completely disinterested in the process. Alright, so Tobey Maguire is hardly the 
 most dynamic of personalities anyway, but this is a little too much to bare. Do these people actually 
 get paid?
  
  However, not content with keeping entirely the same structure as previous efforts, Treyarch has 
 also added in a GTA-style gang warfare element to the mix, which essentially sees the city broken 
 up into various territories under the control of some rather predictably-designed groups of thugs. 
 Part of your job is to cleanse the streets of these gang members, earning stat boosts and new manoeuvres 
 in the process, which will in turn help along some of the more fiendishly-designed story missions. 
 Whilst this is essentially only a small addition, in comparison to some of the other aspects of 
 Spiderman 3 it can certainly be judged as a success, and dealing with the gang member themselves 
 is a fairly satisfying experience.
  
  In fact the more freeform aspects of the game design are clearly where Spiderman 3 excels. Simply 
 swinging around the city and dealing with one incident after another has its charms, and although 
 the button-mashing combat system gets tiresome very quickly, there is a sense of satisfaction to 
 be gained from clearing out a neighbourhood or halting a crime in progress before swinging off 
 into the night sky. Moodily perching on top of the nearest sky scraper is entirely optional of 
 course, but highly recommended.
  
  Of course it isn't long before we're reminded that Spiderman and Peter Parker have a story to tell, 
 and as it turns out this is certainly the most under-developed and underwhelming element of the 
 game.
  
  Most of the story missions themselves are simply dull, without putting too fine a point on it. 
 The dreadful voice acting contributes a fair share to this situation, but the straightforward and 
 uninspired design and at times maddeningly difficult objectives put the final nail in the coffin. 
 Playing through the story simply becomes a chore after a few hours, and for a title with so much 
 material to work with, that situation is frankly unforgivable. All the elements are there, they 
 just need to be tied into an interesting and varied narrative, and a set of missions that have 
 actually been play-tested and balanced correctly.
  
  The boss battles also deserve a mention for being particularly horrendous in both design and execution. 
 Some of the climactic fights can take up to 45 minutes to complete, with the majority of that time 
 taken up by simply dodging an attack and then hitting back for half a second, over and over again. 
 I'm all for lengthy and memorable encounters, but there needs to be some variation contained within, 
 and not simply an RSI-inducing slog for the best part of an hour. Not fun, on any level whatsoever.
 
  
  Coupled with this is a simply terrible camera system that doesn't handle any change in perspective 
 with any form of grace. I can appreciate that it must be a difficult task to create a dynamic system 
 that has to cope with a main character that can climb on walls, ceilings and anywhere else he pleases, 
 but there has to be a better solution than this. All too often when climbing up a building or into 
 a room the camera will get locked in a position that showcases Spidey's nice new black suit rather 
 fetchingly, but masks out the rest of the environment. This can become incredibly disorienting 
 at times, and is guaranteed to be the cause of your in-game demise on more than one occasion.
 
  
  Rounding off the list of complaints is the rather dated graphical engine, which simply doesn't 
 belong on any current generation system. Treyarch maintain that Spiderman 3 was developed from 
 the ground-up for the new generation of consoles, and if that's the case then we have a depressing 
 few years ahead of us. Aside from an increase in texture resolution, at times it's almost impossible 
 to make out the alterations from any of the previous versions here, with the Playstation 3 title 
 fairing particularly badly when it comes to framerate issues. Far too often the game plunges into 
 seemingly single-digit frame counts, which makes some of the more precise manoeuvres difficult 
 to undertake.
  
  Spiderman 3 embodies everything thats currently wrong with an average next-generation 'experience', 
 and particularly defines the vast majority of Playstation 3 content at this moment in time. It's 
 a shallow, lazily-upgraded and rushed game that could have done with being taken back to the drawing 
 board at an early stage to better encompass the power of the new hardware on offer. Despite this, 
 there is still enjoyment to be found, and the simple pleasures of swinging through the city, tackling 
 crime and dive-bombing from tremendous heights go some way to rectifying the myriad of graphical 
 and play-balancing problems. Ultimately though it isn't enough, and Treyarch needs to seriously 
 reconsider the direction of the series prior to the inievitable release of Spiderman 4.
  
  Note: This text was originally wrotten by myself and published over at thunderboltgames. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: huga215
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 11, 2007 2:00 pm PT
Review:  This spider man game does everthing that spider man can do. some flaws but not major ones. Let's 
 start with the flaws. There is little frame rate problems nothin big just a littke bit, but thats 
 normal you are not going to get a game with no frame rate problems NO GAME IS PERFECT . The graphics 
 can be better too, even tho I don't know what the graphics truely are bcuz I use my ps3 on a stander 
 tv and haven't yet experienced my ps3 on a HDTV, which I know makes a big difference. Now to Gamespot 
 and some of the people that gave this game way to low of ascore. Spider man has all his abilities 
 that he has in the comic books. He has the web swing which you can hold on to and swing in another 
 direction if you missed your turn, he has the web zip, spidy senses, nice ground and air combos. 
 People might not know how to mix up the combinations. Spider man can climd and run on walls, he 
 has a very good super jump, if you use it right you can jump roof to roof and not use your web 
 swing at all. He can also swing on street lights, if you jump near a street light and prees O he'll 
 swing on it for awhile and then sit on top of it to look for crime in the neighborhood, or after 
 you press O and start the swing you can quickly keep tapping L2 to pick up faster speed, then press 
 X to swing high into the sky and swing from building to building. There is still more he can do 
 but I'm tired of typing, so with that being said I'm signing off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Telomar
Rating: 6.1
Date: Jun 10, 2007 3:51 pm PT
Review:  Like most movie based games it lacks depth and quality that comes with being able to pick your 
 own deadline. Unfortunately this is a game that gets old. Admittedly a few of the stories are slightly 
 engaging but sadly too much of the game falls back to button mashing and repetitive action. Although 
 you might get kicks out of playing as Spider-Man you will be punished with awful music and a camera 
 that seems to want to make your life more painful. Wall crawling would be great if it were easier 
 to look around. What perhaps is most annoying about the game are the bugs. Bugs that stop you being 
 able to pick things up or bugs that result in you hitting a boss so hard he apparently goes through 
 the wall and the roof of a locked room.
  
  For the diehard spidey fans you'll enjoy the chance to play as your favourite superhero but somehow 
 this game just doesn't do him credit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: luigismansion101
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 7:40 am PT
Review:  This game really surprised me. I bought it for free at gamestop since they were doing a buy 2 get 
 1 free sale. The story made is very good, it is difficult but not so much that it is too hard. 
 I am not a Spidey fan, I've never watched any of the movies, but I doubt that this follows the 
 movie very closely. It is very open-ended in how you tackle the missions. The combat system is 
 good, but it does get repetitive after a while. The camera does have a tendency of messing up but 
 it does this very few times. I loved this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:52 pm PT
Review:  Given my enjoyment, and the purchase I made for spider-man 2, I decided to give spider-man 3 a 
 shot. With all the heat the game has been getting, I decided instead of a purchase, a rent would 
 have to suffice, and what a great rent it was. Spider-man 3 disappoints in many ways.
  
  The general gameplay of spider-man 3 remains an open ended game. AKA, do whatever the heck you 
 want. You can swing from building to building as long as you like, while fighting crime, and watching 
 over your home, NY city. Sound good? Sure it does, however, it doesn't deliver as good as it should. 
 The combat engine in the game has done nothing to revolutionize the gameplay, nor make it more 
 fun. While it is decent, it could sure use some work. You'll string some cool looking combos, however, 
 the end result is a redundant fighting engine. You can do some missions, or some activities. Since 
 the activities are dead boring, all is left is the meat of the game, the missions. The story in 
 the game takes a while to develop, and isn't all that fleshed out. Youll get some nice chapters 
 with people such as the lizard, and scorpion. But as a game that's licensed after the MOVIE, it 
 doesn't deliver like it should.
  
  The graphics for spider-man 3 aren't done very well. When I popped it into my PS3, I thought I 
 rented the PS2 version by mistake, however, yep, that's it, those are the graphics that my cell 
 processor are giving me. NY looks great, and spidey's costume is also well done as usual. However, 
 for a next gen game you would expect more. The citizens and other main characters are nothing that 
 the 5 years old Xbox couldn't do. Some of the cut scenes are disgusting, and make you wonder why 
 the developers hadn't put much thought in that portion of the game.
  
  The sound in the game's alright. You'll get the occasional tune while swinging, and the voice overs 
 are decent at best. Tobey and Grace are dead boring, and seems like they're just there for the 
 heck of it. JJ's good, what's new? And everything else sounds dull. The webs sound cool though.
 
  
  So, is Spider-man 3 a terrible game? By all means no, is it a great game? Again, by all means no. 
 It makes a really good rent, play, beat it, and return it, that's it. However, to whole heartedly 
 recommend it would make me a bad person. Unless you're a spidey freak, with spidey pajamas and 
 be sheets, I can't recommend this game more than a rent. Spider-man 3 is an overall disappointment, 
 and makes you wonder how they fell short, considering they gave us such a great game last time. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 4.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:42 am PT
Review:  Ok. I got this game 4 days before it came out (I go to a store down in chinatown) I was so hyped 
 about this game and movie because come on, it's spiderman, right. You'd think if any game out of 
 the series this would be the best, right? WRONG! Good points
  
  1. The added characters to the story. This added some cool experiences and fun gameplay at moments.
 
  
  2. ................. Uh, nothing. Not even playing as the black suit satisfied me.
  
  Bad Points
  
  1. Short a** game. Like they couldn't add more bad guys or more of an experience 
 to make this freakin game longer.
  
  2. The size of the city? Ok, it was kind of large, but how come they never let us experience the 
 other bouroughs? The bronx for instance. What? Spiderman can't help people in the bronx? 3. The 
 black suit gameplay was no MAJOR difference from the original suit. Yea it had crazy combo's, Yea 
 he could jump higher &amp; yea he could even hit harder, but.... it did nothing for me at the end. 
 4. For some reason not even the graphics were tight enough for me to say OMG this game is so hot 
 I honestly never thought about the graphics being that much of a deal in the first place. All in 
 all this game sucked juts like the movie and that's all more my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jerm867
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 4, 2007 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I was extremely excited for Spider-Man 3 the game. I expected it to be much better than the first 
 two installments of the series and hoped it would be fast paced and non-repetitive. I was hoping 
 that it would be like Ultimate Spider-Man minus the shortened story line. Well I got two out of 
 three. The game starts off fast and gets faster, especially when you are playing with the black 
 suite. The only thing about this game that makes it repetitive is the fact that some of the missions 
 become frustrating enough where you might just want to chuck your $50.00 siaxis controller out 
 of the window. Common sense prevails in this case because you realize that one controller is as 
 much as a new current generation game. When you get your cool back all of the missions are beatable. 
 The God-of-War-like in-cinema game-play is a nice shift from the traditional cut-scene. Rather 
 than boring some with a cut-scene, or having others enjoy the cut scene but not be involved, Spider-Man 
 3 does a good job of making some great cinematography while also including the player in the game. 
 Some of the button combinations got tough, especially on the last boss fight as you are supposed 
 to press certain buttons the instant you see them with little or no accident or miss-timed forgiveness. 
 All in all you basically have to memorize some of the combinations when it comes to trying them 
 over again after you have failed the first few times. The bad part about this game, and I dont 
 know why this happens with Spider-Man, its too short. The game could have so much in it and its 
 too short. Ultimate Spider-Man was the same way, it was a great, fast paced, no busy work, game. 
 But its ultimate downfall was that it was too short, I feel the same way about Spider-Man three. 
 One of the big things one of the creators of the game relished on was the fact that there were 
 ten different story lines that could be taken throughout the game, but what he failed to mention 
 is that each of those story lines probably had only five to 10 missions, the latter number being 
 for the main story line. Fun game, too short. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonfreak001
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 2, 2007 9:23 pm PT
Review:  this is one of those games that when you play it, it is actually perrty fun. you swing around the 
 world of new yorkm as spiderman and you do the missions that are required to do. but the missions 
 are not really that much fun to do. the controls in the game are good when you start swinging , 
 on the ground though, it is good but not great. the big problem though is the camera angle, it 
 is very bad and will anger you alot. the best parts of the game though is when you turn into the 
 black spiderman. thats where the fun begins and it is awesome to play as that character. the graghics 
 look ok but they could have been better. especially for a playstation 3 game. overal, the game 
 is short and after a while it will get perrty boring. this game is perrty cool game but it gets 
 boring and it is very easy to pass. so just rent it before buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimdagamer
Rating: 6.7
Date: May 30, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  I had already read some reviews on this game so I came into it expecting it to be Spider-man 2. 
 Though this game is different from that game, you can definitely see the influence. I guess this 
 means that most if not all spider-man games from this point on will be free roaming sandbox type 
 games. Thats fine. It is quite fun to swing around a virtual New York like you own the place. 
 Though combat was deep and quite fun, I found myself randomly pressing buttons trying to execute 
 that same combo. The game has a record of all the new combos youve earned but this hardly helps 
 because it does not show you what you did, simply its name and the buttons. The boss fights seemed 
 cheap at times forcing you to use the same strategy over and over again; though some of them are 
 very fun you soon find the trend. It was fairly short game; I finished it in a day. Luckily it 
 was a rent for me so I didnt have to live with spending $60 for a game I only spent a day on. 
 The rip off of God of Wars button sequences were cool though God of War was better. I guess thats 
 why its a rip off and not a reinvention. All in all, I can say it was good rent but I wouldnt 
 want to buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -oG-ShAdY
Rating: 6
Date: May 29, 2007 9:49 pm PT
Review:  I was expecting something much more out of the next gen systems. I didn't try it on the 360 but 
 on the PS3 the game just looks bad. The voice acting is alright but it really doesn't seem like 
 the actors were into the whole process. Maybe they were just happy to get the movie done and really 
 didn't want this mediocre game to ruin their vacations. Who knows... All in all, the game does 
 play solid at points, but plumits during close combat and fast movements. The combo system is improved 
 (I like not having to buy combos a la L. O. T. R.) but still lacking and the animations don't fit 
 well together. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Flesh
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 29, 2007 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Even though I was jobless at the time I picked up Spiderman 3 and skipped groceries..... eating 
 out of dumpsters every once in a while is good for you. I like that web swinging in this game is 
 similiar to Spiderman 2 and not Ultimate Spiderman. Combat is as button mashy as previous entries, 
 but I like to keep my super exact button/timing combos in fighting games... button mashing in some 
 games is fine with me. Much in this game is no different than in previous entries. You stop the 
 road raged driver, you stop the get-a-way vehicle, etc. Following the cops to the crime scene is 
 new..... I think. As are the bomb runs. In terms of side quests and objectives like racing and the 
 like this game feels like every rendition of spider-man...... except the abysmal first one. Of course 
 being on next gen platforms the graphics are leaps and bounds better than the PS2. However I noticed 
 something. I was far happier with the cell shaded Ultimate Spiderman look rather than with this 
 tryin' to be realistic graphical (is that even a word) approach. The realistic faces on the charcters 
 don't look realistic.... at best they look like the window lickers on the short bus. All the characters 
 have this perpetual look of surprise on their faces even when their voice sounds angry..... RFoM 
 has this same problem. And what is up with the garbage anti-aliasing. If anyone read my Oblivion 
 review I thought my PS3 was broken the anti-aliasing was so bad. But when I compared this to Resistance: 
 Fall of Man it had no issues. RFoM has no anti aliasing issues the walls look nice and straight 
 even when I move around..... peoples heads don't look like shaved down cubes. Then I realised Oblivion 
 and Spider-man 3 are ports from other consoles....... it's distracting to the point I don't play 
 Oblivion anymore cause my eye keeps going to the choppiness around the edges of everything and 
 I cannot appreciate the game for what it is. Same with spider-man I want every cut scene to end 
 as quickly as possible so I don't have to look at marry janes edgy head anymore. Clipping is another 
 problem in this game.
  
  As for the story.... meh. Yeah it mostly follows the movie but the add in don't seem to lead anywhere....... Lizards 
 story seems slapped in there just as an excuse to fight the lizard......... for the uhh what 3rd 
 time now. The same goes for kingpin.... yeah I realize he is the excuse for all the gang violence... and 
 the height of that story line but it falls flat for some reason.
  
  I bought the super ultra limited addition with chromium cover and......... yeah whatever. I bought 
 it cause you can play the new goblin. I thought this would be really cool until I found out two 
 things......... you can't get off the board and it uses the six axis tilt function This was probably 
 a great idea on paper, but was implemented horribly. It seems too touchy some times and it seems 
 to become uncalibrated during other times. I'll be pulling a hard turn tilting the controller vertical 
 and for some reason half way through the turn it begins to slow down.... then when I right the controller 
 and try to move again I just sit there for a sec before the controller can catch up. Why did Sony 
 have to Me too nintendo's idea?
  
  The games not that bad honestly it's certainly better than the clearly unfinished Spider-man 2 
 or dumbed down ultimate spider-man. Had this been the first game in the series it would have got 
 an amazing store but this spider-man left me with the feeling of been there done that . Sure it's 
 got a few new ideas but they seemed slapped in there to try to avoid that feeling rather than wanting 
 to do anything innovative. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boneko
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is pretty much the best spider-man game out there, and the best game I have ever played. 
 If you are a gamer and a fan of spider-man then yo will love this game. With all these bad reviews 
 I was not sure to get it, so I took a chance and to my suprise it was very enjoyable. With a lot 
 of content from comic book super villians, gang warfare, and unseen stuff from the movie there 
 is never a time for a rest untill you beat the game.
  
  The graphics are actually pretty good, good lighting, and people including spider-man look pretty 
 grand. other than a few lags here and there in the game its awesome.
  
  Controlls are very simple, but swinging and attack combos takes some time to get use to. swinging 
 around the city is so cool, you actually feel like spider-man.
  
  Great game, so if you are reading this stop now and go rent or buy this game NOW!!!!!!!!!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordKane100
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 26, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Alright, just to set things straight i have never played Spiderman 1 or 2, but after playing 3, 
 I kind of want to see what they are like.
  
  Gameplay - There are 42 missions. 42! They are challenging and fun, and at the same time give us 
 a look into the life of a real superhero, Spiderman. The 10 different story lines mesh extremely 
 well. We get a taste of Spiderman's greatest enemies, as well as story's that that are interesting 
 and fun. Plus, there are activities to do which are fun like skydiving, bomb tours, etc. To finish 
 it all off, the crime fighting scenarios are awesome and are a nice change from the normal missions. 
 Chronological order is unnecessary in this game at all. Another thing that annoys me is when people 
 say the combat engine is bad. What is wrong with it?!?! The combos are really fun and cool to use 
 in battle. Plus, the God of War/Resident Evil on screen button-matching is fun ESPECIALLY against 
 Sandman.
  
  Graphics - Superb! Spiderman, New Goblin, the villains, Jameson, the people are right on! Everyone 
 except Peter Parker looks life-like. I dunno why but he looks like a bug. The city is just jaw-dropping, 
 and i must have spent hours just exploring all of it.
  
  Sound - Is better than people give it credit for. It's like a good movie, scary and heart-pounding 
 when it has to, soothing when you are just chilling in the city.
  
  Knock against the game - The camera shifts sometimes. Like when you are in a corner, you have to 
 use the right stick to shift it back in focus. But its nowhere near as bad as Gamespot made it 
 sound. Its just a minor thing that 99% of the time you won't even notice.
  
  Overall - Great non-chronological story, love the open-ended gameplay, the city is just eye-popping, 
 the combat system is really fun with all the combos and button-matching, New Goblin is cool to 
 experiment with, and the game is almost perfect in the Villains department. Only reason it doesn't 
 get a 10 is the minor camera issue in tight corners or wall crawling.
  
  All in all worth your $60 buck ors $70 if you want the New Goblin and the webisode. Oh yeah, i 
 have never been a Spiderman enthusiast so this is really in essence an UNBIASED REVIEW. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sykojason
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 25, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  Combat system needs serious work. There's so many combos that you learn as you go along that it's 
 way too hard to memorize them. You'll end up button mashing trying to fight the multiple foes they 
 throw at you even though the combat system seems designed for fighting one enemy at a time. Boss 
 fights are long. I got bored during most of them, and frustrated during all of them. They weren't 
 hard, just long. It took a few tries for most of them because I often got impatient. The visuals 
 seemed hardly next-gen, I think I got better visual quality out of Resident Evil 4 on the PS2. 
 Last but not least, what's worse than a movie that fails to stay true to the comic that it's based 
 on? A game based on that movie that fails to deliver the same bastardized-Spidey story that it 
 is supposed to emulate. Bottom line: I'm a huge comicbook fan and I thought that, despite being 
 dissapointed with all previous Spidey games since his days on the Sega Genesis, that I would RENT 
 this game and give it a chance. That was 7 bucks wasted. Don' t waste your time on this sub-par 
 Spidey game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 24, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  Well about the game i dont think that everybody will like it, i think only fans enjoy it the most. 
 Now about the graphics, on ps2 its scary ,but on ps3 its good for me i think... well anyway this 
 game will be loved by all the little kids, but its difficulty surpasses normal, so dont say that 
 the game is lame and easy. Its not true, so the scenario is not bad either, i like it because its 
 not like in the movie there are more enemies. Like: Scorpion, morbius - vampire, reptile and more... 
 Also in the game you will feel the freedom, well you webslinging, wall crawling around the city, the 
 city is huge so much to do so much space, i tell you, you like it. When you get the black costume 
 in the game, you will feel the power of the dark side of spider-man, you will choose do you want 
 to be with the black suit or the normal more, but its your choice, i prefer the good side, because 
 im not like some freeky guy killing people and all... well see ya! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 23, 2007 6:29 am PT
Review:  Ok i thought spider man 3 was going to be 9.9. But sadly i was mistaken it kinda lousy. swinging 
 is great but u r really looking at a spider man 2 all over again. no if u read this ur going to 
 be like no im gonna get but trust me on this rent it first. gamplay is overall bad. and the graphics 
 make the 360 and ps3 look like crap. so plz just rent it first. now the story dosent fit the movie 
 that much. the best thing about this game is the swinging some boss fights and thats it. also the 
 collectors addition is a rip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud216
Rating: 5.1
Date: May 22, 2007 5:43 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is one of the most anticipated games of the year, but failed to provide a game that 
 lives up to the pontential it had. The gameplay was once thought that it would focus on dodging 
 well, thats true.... in that you just need to hold the dodge button you are basically invulnerable. 
 The attacks you get are pretty cool looking, and satisfying, but doesn't make you that proud since 
 the enemies are dumb as stumps. The boss fights are one of the biggest letdowns since you take 
 them out as you would a normal enemy. No cool trick no weakness except beat the crap out of them 
 until they die. They also added interactive cutscenes which were more of a hassle than a cool addition. 
 The sequences looked nice but you always were uneasy in cutscenes since you couldn't tell when 
 the buttons were coming. Web swinging was the coolest part to the controls which was what made 
 the game on a complete failure.
  
  Graphics were unusual in that the character model for Spiderman looked amazing, yet everone else 
 looked deformed and sort've freakish. The city also looked really nice, at the cost of a low frame 
 rate. Strange, because Spider-Man 2 ran really smoothly...
  
  The sound was the same with the actors doing an ok job but nothing stunning. The threats made by 
 gangs became really repetitive and frustrating. The music was really well integrated and immersive.
 
  
  Now the story. Spider-Man 3 has done what not many games have done. Put 10 (yes) 10 super villains 
 into one game. This would've worked except for the fact that everytime you fought a boss you want 
 to blow your brains out. The ten different storylines that associate for each boss really don't 
 tie in together at all. Then you have the 3 gangs which are laughable at how stupid they are. The 
 gangs are The Dragons Tail: People you dress as if in a kung-fu movie, in New York and fly across 
 the screen screaming loudly. Arsenic Candy: A group of goths obsessed on being beautiful and getting 
 married. (???) and then Apocalypse: A bunch of guys on steroids obsessed about how the world is 
 going to end, and because of this they some how hate spider-man. Yeah, its weird.
  
  So my final conclusion is: Unless you are a die hard spider-man fan who is willing to be completly 
 let down, don't and I repeat DON'T even try this game. It will only bring you pain. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxjeran123xx
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 22, 2007 12:53 pm PT
Review:  -Review May Contain Spoilers-
  
  The first time I was able to play Spiderman 3 was the day it came out, which was a few weeks ago. 
 I'll admit, the game has alot of hype going on for it, and many weren't sure if it could live up 
 to what Spiderman 2 the game was. Well I was shocked to find out that this game matches, maybe 
 even beats the second iteration of Spiderman. In the beginning of the game you start out with a 
 few missions, and the first one I tried was something to do one one of the gangs- I believe the 
 Apocalypse Gang. In the gang, there are territories, owned by three gangs- The Apocalypse Gang 
 (gang of punk thugs) Arsenic Candy (A Gang of Goth Girls) and the Dragon Tail gang (Ancient Asian 
 Martial Arts gang is the best I can really put it) . Well, in the first mission I finally got to 
 webswing around and go beat up some bad guys, who have tried to get some information out of a bystander 
 and have decided to attach him to a crane and send him into the water. Well, you, being Spiderman 
 after all, jump in and beat up the thugs, then proceed to save the man from the crane. After your 
 Thanks Spidey! You once again webswing off to do another mission, or fight crime. Either which 
 you please.
  An aspect of this game that I definitely like is the interactive cutscenes (First used in Resident 
 Evil I believe) where you tap buttons at a certain time and your character will do an action if 
 you press the button correctly.
  For example, when disabling one of the Mad Bomber's bombs, a subway train will go haywire and start 
 to go fast down the station. You rocket yourself to the front of the train, and (Ironically just 
 like in spiderman 2) have to press a series of button combinations to shoot webs so you can use 
 Spidey's Ultimate strength and stop the train.
  Another example is when you turn into the New Goblin (PS3 Collector's Edition only) and you are 
 dodging a bunch of cars because the Sandman has turned into a bit of a Sand Tornado at the precise 
 moment you flip the left stick to dodge a stray car, press the right stick almost directly after 
 and dodge another, then press up on the left stick to jump onto a car that seperates you from your 
 glider, which you must then run up the car and press X and left stick down to reunite with your 
 glider, Which allows you to save Venom from killing Spiderman.
  
  But let's move past the gameplay. Playing in 720p, the graphics look spectacular. Spiderman and 
 his surrondings are all rendered very well, and you are able to see your mirror image swinging 
 as you fly past buildings on your web. The Characters in the game almost look photo-realistic to 
 the ones in the movie. The sounds in the game are also great, my only gripe though is that when 
 you are playing as the New Goblin, the developers didn't even bother to put in another voice line 
 for them to say Hey, Thanks Goblin! Instead, the cops just say Thanks webhead or Thanks Alot Spidey! 
 
  
  One thing I also miss from the old game are the random crime, like the robbers getting into a firefight 
 with the cops and you having to save the cops before they get away. Another thing that annoys me 
 is defusing the bombs, which can sometimes be frustrating.
  
  Other then that, the game is perfect, and mirrors how it feels to be Spiderman. I give the game 
 a 9.5, as you may have already read. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daraghp
Rating: 5.9
Date: May 22, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  Lets face it, games based on movies suck. It is an unwritten law, in the gaming world that the 
 vast majority of games based on movies, are cash in titles, with little or no effort put into them 
 what so ever. Thats why it was a huge surprise that Spiderman 2 turned out to be as good as it 
 was. And now we have Spiderman 3, a game that has been highly hyped up, these last few months.
 
  
  One of the best things about Spiderman 2, was swinging around the city, doing as you please, choosing 
 weather to take part in stopping the random street crimes, or just simply ignore them. Thankfully, 
 Spiderman 3 manages to keep this, and is still the biggest highlight of the game. Unfortunately, 
 when you enter the missions, thats where the fun stops, and the frustration and yelling begins. 
 Spiderman 3's combat, is bad. And since, the majority of the missions see, you taking out endless 
 amount of thugs, they were never gonna be to great, were they? Even more annoying that the actual 
 missions, are the awful, awful boss fights, that only achieve in making you want throw your Ps3 
 out the window. I would love to recommend this game, and call it great. I would love to be able 
 to say that it was money well spent. I would love to say Spiderman 3 has lived up to the hype, 
 and delivered and extremely satisfying gaming experience. But, that my friends would be a lie. 
 There's just not enough positives to outweigh the negatives in this game.
  The combat is bad, the bosses are awful, the missions are frustrating, its glitchy and the grapchis 
 are not anything special.
  
  Its a shame really, because Spiderman 3, is so nearly a great action game. So, at the end of the 
 day, i would not recommend Spiderman the: the game. I would love to, but i just dont! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 22, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  This game could have potentially been amazing.
  
  As it stands its a fun but flawed game.
  
  Builds apon its predecessors, the graphics are actually 
 very good and detailed with a large city with tons of traffic on screen at once and the ps3 can 
 struggle at times coping with all this information especially when you are swinging through the 
 city with spidey being animated very well. There is slight slowdown but never really effects the 
 game and barley noticeable. What does effect the game however is the fiddely movement, the swinging 
 is done extremely well with not much improvement to build apon there but there are times when you 
 find it hard to navigate precisely, for example if you wanted to land at a precise spot after swinging, 
 especially on a top of a building. The controls are implemented well bar a few odd button placements, 
 like having to press then press and hold R2 with either x, o, triangle or square after having swung 
 with R2. sounds like a game of twister just writing it.
  
  The combat is repetitive but functional but can be hard to fight off multiple opponents at once 
 waiting for spidey to finish a few animation's from a move that has already killed a goon. The 
 game has plenty of tricks and moves to learn for both swinging and fighting.
  The camera can be annoying and does not work that well in confined spaces and just doesn't suit 
 a super hero game where the heros powers are based around freedom but outdoor exploration is favoured 
 more over this and all the better reson for it with the main effaces on web swinging.
  
  The gameplay has kept the mechanics from the game spiderman 2 in that you are given much freedom 
 and choice about how you progress, given a game where a large proportion of the gameplay is based 
 around freedom can also mean it becoming repetitive and stale and loses its punch if mucked around 
 for too much, having said that it can also be a good thing for you to get to grips with the controls 
 and moves of spidey before you tackle the actual missions. doing side missions around the main 
 story doesnt follow the film that closely but makes more than enough refrences to it.
  The sidequests are more like missions themselves this time and all the better for it with tons 
 of variety. This works both ways which also means that the missions are much like the sidequests. 
 So it can be quite confusing whats what at times but overall moves along at a nice pace once you 
 have figured out what to do which isn't explained that clearly at first if you haven't played previous 
 spidey games.
  Bruce Campbell makes a welcome return giving hints along the way but not to an annoying degree.
 
  
  The story is somewhat muddled and can be embarrassing just like the movies themselves which shows 
 that the feel of the movies are here in that sense with the voice acting done by the original cast 
 of the films.
  
  What boils down to a game that could have been so much more and for what is technically flawed 
 also contains much of a technical achievement itself and perhaps more time spent fine tuning the 
 game would have resulted in a much more solid gameplay experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 6, 2008 4:54 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is Treyarch's next Spider-Man game. The game does improve over Spider-Man 2. First 
 of all, the developers kept the free roaming style of gameplay. This is a good thing, considering 
 It was fun in Spider-Man 2 and it's a better way to set up the game all around. Spider-Man is bad 
 in many areas but in some areas the game is good. The main thing that counts is It's fun to play.
 
  
  It's just fun swinging around as Spider-Man in New York. It's fun to jump from building to building 
 and crawling up walls. The story does take after the movie. But, for some reasons they decided 
 to through in random gangs. The 3 gangs so far are made up of rebel punks and the other one fashion 
 models and guys who like bombs.
  
  They should have left those out because it seems like they're just trying to drag on the game. 
 In the end of all these missions with these gangs, well actually the whole mission is made up of 
 you beating them up and trying to hurt them. Except the Bombers, you have to diffuse bombs the 
 whole mission, which is fun at first but gets repetitive. The Bombs are made up of mini game which 
 are fun at first but as above, repetitive. Speaking of mini game, during the cutscenes in this 
 game they're God of War like mini games. These mini games come out of nowhere without any type 
 of warning at all. This either causes you to die or have to restart at the last checkpoint.
  
  Spider-Man 3 even tries to copy off of God of War again. The game has button mashing. You use 
 this to get your enemies down, again like God of War. Spider-Man 3 is improved very little with 
 these the only thing that's good about them, are the way they look which isn't that impressive 
 itself. Now let's get down to the combat system. The system is pretty bad and clunky. The whole 
 system is basically button mashing. The system gets thing done with but most of the time Spider-Man 
 is swinging at the air. The combat system gets really annoying because when your enemies want to 
 punch or attack you an icon appears over Spideys head you click a button and the game goes into 
 slow motion and Spider-Man dodges the attack. After doing this an icon appears and you can attack 
 your enemy after dodging the attack. This works well but when your enemies are constantly attacking 
 it gets really annoying, it seems like all you have to do is click that slow-mo button.
  
  You use this in boss battles too which even attack more then regular enemies. The boss battles 
 in this game are fun but others are very annoying and long. Some boss battles take 3-5 minutes 
 at the most but some of the boss battles in the game last 30-40 minutes which is just to long. 
 It seems like they're just trying to drag on the game. Some boss battles are fun like The Doctor 
 Lizard Guy, Venom and Sandman fighting together, and the Scorpion were pretty entertaining and 
 fun. But, some boss battles make you mad and want to throw your controller across the room.
  
  Another problem about the combat system is the camera. The camera is very buggy and it messes 
 up alot during combat. Which makes the combat system even more worse and frustrating. They could've 
 created a much better combat system that is more promising. The Game does have it's downsides but 
 it has some goodsides too. The city is very well made up and it's very fun just to swing around 
 as Spidey. You can go from rooftops of skyscrapers to he street and even down into the subway. 
 You can play for hours just crawling up buildings and swinging around. The game let's you do this 
 more then Spider-Man 2. It takes out the missions you have to do while you were messing around. 
 Now you just find icons around the city and start up a mission.
  
  The city in this game is bigger all around from the building to the streets. They even added the 
 subway to mess around in which wasn't in Spider-Man 2. Which adds alot of fun into the game. But 
 sometimes when your swinging around there are missions that pop up which you can do but you don't 
 have to do them. Overall, this game is basically Spider-Man 2.5 with more enemies if you think 
 of it.
  
  The graphics in this game vary. When your swinging around as spidey he looks good, the city also 
 looks good as well. But, the cutscenes look like PS2 graphics. The models for the characters are 
 very ugly. Tobey Maguire and Kristen Dunst look nothing like they do in the movie. Overall, the 
 graphics are dent in most parts but in other parts they look like PS2 graphics which shouldn't 
 be on a next-gen system at all.
  
  The voice acting by Tobey Maguire is very bad. Half of the time when he says stuff he sounds half 
 asleep. Most of Spidey's saying while flying are cheesy. He said, I usually knock, but i saw the 
 door open so I walked in. Who says that? The only guy who sounds good is Spidey's boss. He actually 
 sounds like he's trying. But the voice acting in this game is bad. The swinging and fighting sound 
 pretty good though. The game has pretty good value but some people would get turned off with some 
 of the games problems and ignore it but if you ignore those problems you can have a pretty good 
 time with this game. You would probably swing around and just roam the city most of the time. The 
 game keeps on making you want to play it to unlock the black suit. Which after you get that, it 
 makes the game more enjoyable and fun. This suit also adds more challenge which is cool. It's always 
 nice to see something different. The value is good overall.
  
  Spider-Man 3 is a decent game with it's problems but upsides aswll. If you like spider-man or the 
 movie you would enjoy this game. If you liked Spider-Man 2 the game this game would be very fun 
 and you would probably like it. The game has many downsides but every game does so why not give 
 this game a chance. It is tons of fun atleast and the game itself being fun is a big part of any 
 game. Spider-Man 3 is a pretty good game yet bad game. But overall, it's a decent game with lots 
 of fun packed into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rolfbini
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 21, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  a wonderful new York, mostly the climbing skyscapers Spider-Man 3 ties itself into the new Spidey 
 film by including some of the key story arcs from the movie. You'll see Peter Parker get his black 
 suit as well as run into villains like Sandman, New Goblin, and Venom. But much like Spider-Man 
 2, the roster of villains doesn't end there. Scorpion, Lizard, Kingpin, and others all pop up in 
 spots. While it makes sense for the developers to extend the scope of the story beyond that of 
 the film, trouble arises when you realize that the film's plot is practically glossed over. There 
 are 10 individual storylines to play through, but none of them are paced well, nor do they ever 
 build up or deliver enough of a story to pull it all together into one cohesive plot. It's almost 
 like a hastily cobbled together Spider-Man mixtape. You get all the villains, and none of the story 
 exposition. There's about as much character depth and story perspective here as is in the film's 
 trailer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joeyfine
Rating: 7
Date: May 21, 2007 7:48 am PT
Review:  besides the terrible graphics and lame music the rest of the game was pretty good. different story 
 lines made it enjoyable to play. Mary Jane's thrill rides sucked thou. all in all it was a fun 
 game. could have done a lil more work on camera angles but oh well. photo missions are boring. 
 it was better then the movie for sure. if your looking for a hero game that doesn't suck like batman 
 or superman then this one is for you. but if you want a real fun game then go play marvel: UA. 
 thats all i have to say about that. now go read someone elses review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakouroot
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 20, 2007 11:58 am PT
Review:  Amazing Spider-Man
  
  Everyones friendly neighborhood Spidey is back in Spider-Man 3 for the PS3. Spider-Man 3 is a 
 great movie tie in with a whole storyline dedicated to the movie. But this game goes beyond the 
 movie, featuring nine other different storylines. You get to explore the city more than ever before. 
 As you adventure around the city youll notice the top-notch graphics. As time passes in our world, 
 time passes in the game. See the sky change from a sunny blue to a mystifying purple/black.
  
  Gameplay is excellent, as you get to complete 42 missions, numerous activities, and crime fighting 
 . The missions range from photo assignments from Robbie at the Bugle to taking out gangs to pummeling 
 Sandman into bullet trains. The activities include skydiving from the tallest skyscraper in the 
 city, races, combat tours, and bomb tours. Crime fighting is a joy when you get to leap onto a 
 robbers car, pound his face in, then bust his car up, making your cop friends a couple of happy 
 campers. Combat is fun. The villains include New Gob, Venom, Sandman, Scorpion, Rhino, Kingpin, 
 and Kraven.
  
  The graphics dont get much better than this. Spidey looks better than ever. Peter looks just like 
 he does in the movie. The villains look just as good if not better than Spidey. The sound effects 
 are great. The music fits in perfectly with the game. The character voices are great, I think they 
 got the actors to do the characters.
  
  This game is definitely worth the price at $60. And if you can spare $10 more then you can experience 
 playing as the New Goblin flying on his ghostly green glowing sky stick, swinging his triple arm 
 spikes and deadly blade. So whats the problem? (Camera? Right joystick might help.) Nothing really, 
 sure the game could be a little better, but it doesnt need to be. A lack of gaming experience 
 and weak sense of fun makes some people want to do nothing but complain about this game. Try the 
 game, Im sure youll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:19 am PT
Review:  I never really played a Spider-Man game before. I'd owned Spider-Man (based on the first film) 
 for a while, but I'd never really got into the swing of things.
  
  I never played the second game, because I was put-off by the first game, with it's simple linear 
 missions, and rather basic graphics, but after playing Spider-Man 3, I wish I had played it.
  
  The first thing to mention is that it is a sandbox, as was the second game. The city is big, 
 and much more interactive than most game I've ever played, and with so many moves to do, there 
 is endless gameplay available here.
  
  The story-line is very basic, but has a complex 10-path system, whereby you can simply play the 
 game based on the film, or go off after other classic Marvel Villains. If this isn't what you're 
 after, then you can simply swing around looking for crimes to prevent. This system opens a lot 
 of possibilities for the player, and works well.
  
  However, (and there is always a however) there is something definetly lacking in this game. Yes, 
 the camera is a bit jerky, the frame-rate is a bit glitchy, and the city is a bit similar wherever 
 you go, but there is something else; the variety in missions is definetly lacking. For example, 
 nearly every mission involves you beating up thugs, defusing bombs or swinging around as fast as 
 you can. This soon gets very tedious, and can get you quite annoyed.
  
  All in all, it is a good game, but definetly not the best game available. I suggest you play on 
 it, before you choose to buy it and see if it is the right game for you. If it is, then you, like 
 me, will enjoy playing this game for what it is!
  
   Collector's 
 Edition Only
  
  If you are a budding Spidey fan, abnd are willing to pay the extra cost, you will be rewarded with 
 a few features. Namely:
  
  - A few interviews - not that interesting
  - A lenticular card - again, not that interesting
  - and the chance to play as the NEW green 
 goblin - NOW YOU'RE TALKING!
  
  To be honest, this is probably one of the best things about the PS3 version of this game. You can 
 control the new green goblin with just the ilt control, and the R2 and L2 buttons. It is serious 
 fun zooming around the city, but that is about all it's good for. You can't do any missions apart 
 from races, and you can't get off his board, but it is good fun, and you won't regret your decision!
 
  
  Traded it in now though. Realised that there isn't any substance once you've completed it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino-sideras
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 19, 2007 10:15 am PT
Review:  Spider-man 3 is the best spiderman game of its series and best uperhero game. swingin round the 
 city can keep you interested for days and just discoering new parts is fun. there a 42 missions 
 in total with extra levels and activities along the way. the graphics are amazing, the way the 
 light reflects off buildings is spot on, and the character spiderman is so relistic when hes web 
 slinging and climbing walls. the levels are just as intense as the other spidermans and the loading 
 times are light speed. i cant beleive the people who underated this game. Gamespot said there was 
 problems witht the camera, but theres nothing wrong with it, trust me, and framerate issues are 
 fine, they might get jittery if you have your hard drive packed out but if you havnt got much then 
 it runs smooth. the music is exellent just like the film and keeps you wondering if theres anything 
 else to do. the levels can sometimes get completicated but gamespots guide helps you through so 
 its not a problem. moves and visual effects are as good as ever and although i havnt played it 
 in HD yet its still amazing on SD so i can just imagine how much better it will be!
  
  if you like intense games buy it
  if you like spider-man buy it
  if you like free-roam and 
 superhero games buy it
  if you like fun and polished gamplay buy it
  and if you like all of the above get it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlift700
Rating: 3.2
Date: May 18, 2007 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Ugh... I feel like im poking myself in the eye every time I play this game. It's the exact same 
 thing as Spiderman 2, but with slightly better graphics and GoW rip-off games that jump out at 
 you without warning. Everything you've read about it not being too dazzling is correct. For a next 
 gen game, I'm truly disapointed. While web-swinging is fun and entertaining, its gets old very 
 quick... the reason? I did the EXACT same thing throughout the last spiderman game I played. Combat 
 is a tedious blend of button mashing boredom intermingled with, as mentioned above, God of War 
 mini-game ripoffs. But they seem to be an afterthought, as if the developers put them in the last 
 minute before release.... You have no warning when they will come and the penalty for messing them 
 up is simply restarting them. You can tell there was a focus group near the end of development 
 discussing where to put in these minigames. Forget about wallcrawling... the camera angles you've 
 heard about are everything and less. as soon as the camera switches I lost track of which direction 
 anything was. Maybe they should have ripped of GoW in this area too.
  
  The good parts? Ok, Spiderman looks amazing and the cut scenes are pretty fun to watch. Being a 
 long time spiderman (and comic book) fan, they are the only reason I continue to poke my self in 
 the eye (aka play) with this game.
  
  The Jist - RENT it, but only if your a big spidey fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencm21
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 18, 2007 5:28 pm PT
Review:  This game is way better than Gamespot makes it out to be. sure it takes the same formula of spiderman 
 2, adds flashy graphics and some new features, but what else do you want? SM2 was a great game 
 and SM3 changes little in the way of innovation however there is enough new content added to make 
 it better than SM2. just swinging around the city feels better, and when you shoot out a web only 
 to have it miss and not latch on to a building you feel the panic as spiderman falls to his doom, 
 only to be saved by another web shot out in the last second. SM3 makes you feel as though you really 
 are there, that is an achievement in itself.
  
  The missions are fantastic, the 10 story arcs that can unfold are a really good concept and it 
 executed really well. the graphics are stunning and its fun to go into the subway and dodge trains. 
 As for the frame rate issues that were reported, i have seen no such thing, even when you swing 
 around at night and the city is lit up there is no slowdown at all, at the worst times all you 
 notice is the odd car pop up but thats it in the way of technical glitches.
  
  Gamespot were wrong to give this game such a low score and i recommend you play it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docnovak
Rating: 5
Date: May 17, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  I understand that trying to make realistic controls for a web shootin' Spidey can be hard, but 
 the controls in this game were ridiculous. The worst part had to be the graphics though. Particularly 
 during the cut-scenes. It looks like the game was written for SD graphics on the PS2 and just up-scaled 
 to 720p for the PS3. I've actually seen better in game graphics on the PS2 then the PS3 version 
 of SPiderman 3 had for pre-rendered cut scenes. I love the Spiderman franchise, but they fell severly 
 short on what they could have done for it's debut on next-gen. If you really want it, get the cheaper 
 PS2 version, upscaling is coming soon to PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SrDingDong
Rating: 8.4
Date: May 17, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Although I expected more from this game I must admit it is still a fun game to play. Spiderman 
 2.5 would fit the title better in my opinion. I feel this game was rushed and had a couple of minor 
 glitch issues but the gameplay makes up for it. The game is very much like SM2 but with tightened 
 graphics and a bigger map. If you liked SM2 then youll definetly enjoy playing SM3. The combat 
 is very swift and fluid as is the swinging. For the CE the new goblin was a great addition and 
 gives you the chance to be able to fly around the city at top speed and fight criminals and do 
 races. The lighting is beautiful and makes nyc look realistic as ever. I hope there will be DLC 
 in the near future to keep me addicted to this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: guitar -- hero
Rating: 5.2
Date: May 16, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  I bought the collectors edition for 10 bucks more than the origonal. after playing it for a little 
 bit i realized i got ripped off. the collectors edition came with an option to play as the new 
 goblin. trying to fly him is so annoying. you use the motion sensor to fly him and the way that 
 you do is so gay you tilt the controller to turn and pres R1 to go. then u can press square to 
 boost. the gay thing about it is that when u turn it is like ur turning in halo. except to turn 
 left or right you have to stop first because if you dont, the game spazzes. and when you press 
 boost for too long, the guy starts spazzing again. also the game is way too hard when you get the 
 black spidey suit. and peter keeps saying that he feels new power when he wears it but i didnt 
 notice any new power . but the game still got harder so you eventually want to stop. all in all, 
 the game was pretty fun when you were just swinging around, but when you get to fighting and new 
 goblin, it is very annoying and hard. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meme15220
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 15, 2007 10:31 pm PT
Review:  I can't lie, while I was playing Spiderman 3 I was having a blast. Swinging through the city can 
 an hours worth of fun on it's own. Fighting is better than ever before, especialy with black spidey 
 suit. However the game has it's downfalls. Whats frustrating is that it would have been simple 
 to make this a great game. The game hardly stays true to the movies storyline at all. WHY?? it 
 would have been just as easy to follow the story as it is not. Also, there is not any rewards besides 
 unlocking black spidey suit. Give me harry and venom and new missions for completing the game with 
 100%. You can beat this game in about 10 hours, and you can also spend ten times that completing 
 everything there is to do, but there are absolutly no extra rewards after you beat the normal game. 
 In conclusion, the game is a must play for game lacking ps3, however i would rent it and beat it 
 in a week like I did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tootergray34
Rating: 6.8
Date: May 15, 2007 5:28 am PT
Review:  First things first I was extremely excited for this very poor game. I know that a lot of people 
 out there love the Spider-Man series of movies but the games have all been basically a bust. From 
 repetitive game play to terrible camera angles it is certainly an adventure you should rent first 
 before you go out there and buy it... like I did. The only people I would recommend this game to 
 would be the rarest of hardcore Spider-Man fans. Fighting gets very repetitive by the second or 
 third battle in that it's all just a button masher and there is of course the usual taking pictures 
 quests too. All in all though i'd have to say rent this game first because it's really not that 
 great. If they had put as much effort into the game that they did the movie... that'd be a different 
 story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 14, 2007 9:33 am PT
Review:  In Spiderman 3 you begin just like the film, after spidey beats Doc Oc in the second movie his 
 life is going pretty good and people actually love him. But we all know thats too good to last 
 for long. Spider Man finds himself having to deal with 3 new gangs and new villans, more than what 
 y ou see in the movie. To not spoil to much, the game actually trys to tell 10 different stories 
 all at one time. GOOD THINGS: the game has simple and good controls, so if you have played the 
 second one you will have no problems. The swinging is the same also, free to roam around. The combat 
 has actually been changed in a few parts and you can use webs in combos and they are pretty easy 
 to preform. Graphics are pretty good the cut scenes look the best, the enviroments are no big deal, 
 we will discuss them in the next part. The game also has the God of War button pushing mini game 
 aspect. which actually fits spidey pretty good and makes the game more enjoyable. It makes the 
 game a little more challenging. Playing as the black suit is cool in the game, after all thats what 
 we have all waited for. I loved seeing all the villians .
  BAD THINGS: sometimes when you swing close to the ground, some of the people dissapear on the street. 
 No a huge thing but still. Sometimes in the cutscenes there are a few gliches in the background. 
 One of the things that buged me most is the fact that the voices and dialoge did not match what 
 was going on at times. the big boss battle against venom was no where as good as the other ones 
 and not as good as it should have been .
  the majority of the game actually goes to telling the other stories, but a little bit more taken 
 from the 3 film would have been better.
  
  OVERALL; if you have been looking forward to Spider Man 3 on PS3 then Definetly go for it , especially 
 if you are a big fan of the games , movies and comics. This is also a great game to rent, because 
 it doesn't take long to beat it, at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xelerate05
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 12, 2007 4:20 pm PT
Review:  Dont believe the other people. If you liked spider man 2, you will love this! Its not the same 
 as Number 2! A must buy! You can do different crimes, different game stories, and tons more! So 
 ill say this again, ITS NOT THE SAME AS SPIDER MAN 2! So its not a waste of your money! So, just 
 go buy it, you will like it! Also, you get to disarm bombs, and throw people in the subway where 
 they can get ran over! Also you can swim! What is not to like about this game? So, ill say again, 
 buy this game if you have the money! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomscurse3
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 12, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  The graphics are good, stroy is okay, combos are great, FMVs are poor, and sound effects are good. 
 Worth buying but there are some flaws. It's a pretty decent game but theere are some ups and downs 
 spiderman 3 spiderman spiderman spiderman spiderman 3 spiderman spiderman spiderman The graphics 
 are good, stroy is okay, combos are great, FMVs are poor, and sound effects are good. Worth buying 
 but there are some flaws. It's a pretty decent game but theere are some ups and downs spiderman 
 3 spiderman spiderman spiderman spiderman 3 spiderman spiderman spiderman The graphics are good, 
 stroy is okay, combos are great, FMVs are poor, and sound effects are good. Worth buying but there 
 are some flaws. It's a pretty decent game but theere are some ups and downs spiderman 3 spiderman 
 spiderman spiderman spiderman 3 spiderman spiderman spiderman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: williamquah
Rating: 7
Date: May 12, 2007 5:49 am PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 is the first Spidey game on next gen or is it current gen? anyway, it may not be the 
 perfect Spidey game or the best movie licensed game for that matter but it sure is a good effort 
 as this game is pretty good nonetheless.
  
  Gameplay - this game is like every other Spidey game released recently which is free roam. You 
 can swing around in New York. Perhaps the most obvious is the size of the city which is about 2.5 
 times larger they claimed. In this city are various missions thrown all over the place, some of 
 them are story missions while some of them are just there to waste your time. Like the previous 
 releases there are random missions only this time you don't have to talk to anyone as they are 
 activated on the go and there are more varieties to these missions. In all these missions there 
 are occasional God of War type of gameplay (those button pressing thing) . This is actually a good 
 addition as it creates variations in terms of gameplay. However, all these additions might sound 
 great but they also pose as setbacks. Many missions mean that interest is sacrificed. Most of them 
 feel like they are put there to make the game longer. They do not tell you which mission progresses 
 the story so you are forced to go through almost all of them. And because completing missions gives 
 you more upgrades so this forces you to complete even the most irrelevent ones. The AI is kinda 
 imbalanced, fighting street thugs can sometimes be harder than boss fights. You're Spider-man, 
 it doesn't feel right to hit human thugs five to six times and they still manage to get up. Some 
 of the boss fights are extremely tedious to past because you are only doing that much damage while 
 your opponent kills you in a matter of few hits. As many random missions as they may have, sooner 
 or later they are going to get repetitive. This is an inevitable phenomenon especially in superhero 
 games. Almost forgot, the improvement of spider sense that turns everything into black and white 
 is kind of cool but it will go off automatically after a while. This is very inconvenient especially 
 when you are chasing one particular vehicle amongst tens of other vehicles or trying to trace something 
 specific in the midst of being attacked by hordes of AIs.
  
  Visual - if you've played the PS2 version perhaps you'll appreciate this version better. It may 
 not be top notched but it is not bad either although the PS3 can do so much better. The lighting 
 effects is great with shadows and reflections everywhere. These effects give the game a realistic 
 feel to the overall environment. The characters are well rendered but they could have been much 
 better. Spidey is good looking with much detail. However, besides all the important characters 
 everything else just falls flat. Having lots of vehicles and straits all over the city is just 
 plain fun to be in because everything just feels more 'alive'. The animation is wonderful even 
 though a lot claimed that this version is heavy on the framerate issue but they have yet being 
 encountered.
  
  Audio - There's nothing fancy with the audio, just the usual stuff that you will find in a Spidey 
 game. Just for your information, most of the actors did the voiceovers for their counterparts. 
 Too bad Kirsten Dunst isn't in this one or the whole voiceover thing will be complete. Unlike Spider-man 
 2, all the actors just lack energy in their voices.
  
  Story - Storywise is not that good. As you progress along, you'll hardly notice a story is being 
 played. Perhaps it is because the developer is trying to avoid including spoilers but the story 
 is just too shallow and non emersive. The pace is just too broken because of all the additional 
 non-story missions. For example, one part you have Peter Parker making contact with the black stuff 
 but it takes dozens of missions before you finally get the symbiote costume.
  
  Overall - It's safe to say that this is an improvement over Spider-man 2 and maybe the best movie 
 tie-in superhero game out there. With plenty of distractions like races and tours you bet that 
 this game will keep you busy for a while. To think that they will be throwing in another Spider-man 
 game even though we haven't even digested this one yet. What's the world coming to? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tanisman
Rating: 6.1
Date: May 12, 2007 4:27 am PT
Review:  First, I absolutely loved the Spider-man 2 game when it came out because it was the first time, 
 I felt, Spidey was done justice in video games: A free roaming environment where you could swing 
 around just for the sake of looking at the amazing cityscapes. This game takes that facet and builds 
 upon it, adding BEAUTIFUL textures to the buildings and lighting. The sunshine and the skies look 
 one step closer to organic on the new generation of systems.
  HOWEVER!!!
  The characters themselves look very half assed. It's almost as thought they tried too hard to make 
 the people look like their live counterparts... and they end up looking somewhat clammy like walking 
 corpses... And MJ has never looked more like Howdy Doody and Pippie Longstocking's bastard child. 
 Last time I checked... Kirsten Dunst was a very attractive girl, and she is done no justice in 
 the game.
  The character programmers for SM3 would do well with a schooling by the fellas of God of War 2 
 on making characters look damn good... and they used the PS2's engine!!!
  And speaking of getting schooled by the God of War peeps... Were the little mini games necessary? 
 They felt so contrived and reeked of plagiarism! It seems like EVERY game is trying to do the Press 
 the button sequence as reflexively quick as possible mini games. God of War did it, they did it 
 right, and everyone else should just come up with another gimmick to make a good and interesting 
 game rather than rip off what was already done perfect. Plus... in Spidey 3... there is NO warning 
 in some cases that you are even about to partake in a mini game. It just suddenly gets thrust upon 
 you, you likely die or fail a mission, and you have to restart from a checkpoint. Thankfully, you 
 don't have to start back too far. One Mini game that is INFURIATING is the arsenic candy chandelier 
 thing.
  Next: In Spidey 3, I only wanted 2 bugs: Spidey and Scorpion. What I got was a whole cityscape 
 worth of glitches... and occasionally I had to reset the game because it froze! I honestly think 
 that if you have a game that freezes, it is a defective product, and you need to tweak things, 
 even at the peril of a postponed release.
  Now for the collector's edition, I paid ten dollars more to be able to play as the new Goblin. 
 He has no missions beyond when a random event occurs, and the timed races. I think it's funny that 
 when you fight crime as Harry, the cops still say Hey thanks, webhead! 
  Controlling Harry with the super sensitive tilting controller method is at first kind of fun, but 
 ultimately impractical and annoying. When trying to fight crime, you sit there trying to steer 
 toward the bad guys, but end up just grinding the hover board into the asphalt. Looks like that 
 paint ball mask Harry is wearing needs to be replaced by a bike helmet. Do us a favor, oh creative 
 programmers... next time, let us at least have the option of just using the joystick to steer. 
 Lastly, my final gripe: Bruce Campbell. I have met the man at a book signing. I think he is a fantastic 
 person. But in the game... the whole cynical smart ass wise-cracking persona only gets on your 
 nerves. I want to make it clear that it is NOT Bruce's fault that his presence fails in this game. 
 It is again a travesty on the part of the programmers. Bruce Campbell's voice walks you through 
 the stupid stop and go mandatory tutorial that you are unable to bypass and cut to the chase. I 
 can deal with that... Lots of games have that... but suddenly sometimes in the middle of a mission 
 that gets annoying with repetition (see mini game failure) , Bruce's cute little interjections will 
 just randomly pop up, far after you thought his part in the game was over.
  So, Hardcore Spidey fans, you'll have a good time with this one... at least for awhile... And I 
 count myself among you... But ultimately, I really don't see this one surviving in my library for 
 the remainder of my time with the PS3. ON A SIDE NOTE: PS3!!!! I'M STILL WAITING FOR THAT GAME 
 THAT BLOWS ME AWAY, AND BLOWS XBOX 360 OUTTA THE WATER! IT DOESN'T EXIST YET, AS FAR AS I KNOW, 
 AND I'M LOSING A LITTLE FAITH!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tombom159
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 11, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  You know what, the fact that gamespot gave S3 a low score makes me wanna punch em. I dont know 
 what game you were playin because this one was awsome. I think it's tight using button sequences 
 like god of war. It also has the coolest attacks and combos. It's difficulty can be a little hard 
 sometimes but not a lot. The boss battle are fun too. Like when you face the Hob-Goblin (but for 
 some stupid reason it's the new goblin which is mentally retarded) it's fun. I mean your fighting 
 ur best friend in mid air on a floating skateboard thingy. When you fight sandman it was fun cause 
 you could smoosh his face into the train. Also when your in car chases they actually get damaged 
 and crash, plus you can pull on the friggin door, or hood to stop engine. I also like when you 
 get to disarm bombs. The Black Spider -man is fun to be also. All and all gamespot made a bad score 
 making it to low, so spider-man 3 in my case is awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kramer-D-
Rating: 5.3
Date: May 11, 2007 7:58 am PT
Review:  Although the the hype for both the movie and the game was staggering, as well as the production 
 costs, the result is far from spectacular.
  The game does present some interesting gameplay formats, such as cutscene-esque action sequences 
 in which the player must correctly key in specific buttons... oooo aahhh wooow.... ahem.
  The only real thrill of the game, is swinging through Manhattan at high speeds, which, I must admit, 
 looks and feels great, but definately short lived. Spider-Man 3 can be extremely frustrating in 
 quite a few ways as well. The Camera really makes you want the throuw your sixaxis through a window 
 after it continuoulsy gets in your way, and the load times combined with framerate issues really 
 grinds the players gears!
  All of this being said, if you have a free rental at Blockbuster, and nothing else is available... sure, 
 give it a go... but from one gamer to another... save your money for a game that is actually worth 
 it, especially for a next-gen console!
  Ciao! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JudgementEden
Rating: 1.9
Date: May 10, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  Did you like Spider-Man 2? - Then you should LOVE this game! 
  
  Thats what people tend to say when talking about Spider-Man 3. I for one loved SM2 just as much 
 as everyone else (Except for the fact they had no unlockables) .
  
  Overall though SM2 was a good and decent game.
  
  However the sequel, Spider-Man 3, is anything 
 but good or decent.
  
  Lets start off with the Graphics: The graphics are the most ugly i have seen on the PS3. The characters 
 eyes look like they are bulging out of their sockets, and the textures on everyone is bad as well.
 
  
  When you are web-swinging around NYC the textures of the buildings just pop in and out, its very 
 ugly.
  
  The graphics look like an ugly version of SM2.
  
  Next is Sound: The voice over work is disgusting!
  
  The only voice i can stand is Bruce Campbell, 
 who cant? The pedestrians are lifeless zombies who say sentence after sentence without any emotion 
 whatsoever.
  
  After that is Gameplay: The gameplay of Spider-Man 3 is ridiculous!
  It starts out easy enough, but when you start getting into the missions where the enemy is just 
 a bunch of criminals... it gets pathetic.
  
  Spider Man is a weak loser in this game. You WILL struggle with the most simple of enemies sometimes.
 
  
  You'll think to yourself Am i playing as Spider Man or what!? Because the regular, run of the mill 
 thug could kill you fairly quickly. Last i checked Spider Man didnt need to try that much fighting 
 people with no powers!
  
  And the context sensitive parts of the game are NOT needed.
  
  As a final say gameplay wise, New Goblin is total trash!
  
  I have the Collectors Edition, 
 and it was not worth an extra $10.
  It seems as if they tacked on the damn character so they have an excuse to make extra money.
 
  
  He has a VERY limited move set. And his Sky Stick is redundant to say the least.
  
  Just believe me when i say hes worse than terrible.
  
  What is the Value?
  
  DO NOT GET 
 THIS GAME!
  
  I wanted to like this game, i REALLY did. But as soon as i turned on my PS3 to play it i knew it 
 wasnt going to be good.
  
  There ARE framerate issues, dont listen to what anybody says who tells you differently. I would 
 not lie about something like that, especially a SM game.
  
  This is the most crappiest game out now. I would rather play Dark Kingdom than this piece of crap.
 
  
  I regret spending $70 for a pile of feces and im selling it as soon as i can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cobalt_church
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 10, 2007 1:27 pm PT
Review:  I recently finished Spiderman 3 for the playstation 3 and In my opinion is was a pretty good game, 
 so here is my review.
  
  The -'s Of Spiderman 3: Well the things that stood when I played was the constant repeats of dialogue. 
 I mean I liked the fact they used most of the real voices but you think they could ad least add 
 in a few more saying. Other than that I really got frustrated that in order to unlock more missions 
 you had to beat practically every gang mission. Next we move on to the Story, now don't get me 
 wrong the story was good but usually when I play a Game called Spiderman 3 The Movie I would expect 
 that everything flows pretty much in the same stream. The Last thing that I didn't like was the 
 fact that the Ps2 and The Ps3 versions are different. For example my friend and I both got the 
 game at the same day and would walk each other through the game talking about if we had finished 
 something and trouble with it when we realized that he got different missions on The Ps2 version 
 and I got a Different Missions on the Ps3.
  
  The +'s Of Spiderman 3: The thing I enjoyed the most was the fact that there were swinging through 
 mid-air, your webs when to one building or the other depending on where you are. I like the fact 
 that you can play as the black Spiderman through the story after you beat the game. I also really 
 enjoyed the fact that you had to hit the different buttons at certain points just because it reminds 
 me of God of War. But some parts were a little hard. I really enjoyed doing the Daily Bugle Missions, 
 and throughout the whole game, besides from the dieing I felt like Spiderman.
  
  The Final Verdict Is: If you Enjoy Marvel Games as Much as I do, all though it had it's flaws it 
 is a game diffidently adding to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 10, 2007 2:20 am PT
Review:  To me a really good superhero game has to let you experience what its like to be that hero. Give 
 you freedom to play at your own pace. Have a good deal of role playing elements so that you can 
 become a part of that world be you a comic book fan or newbie wanting to expand on the movie experience. 
 Spider-Man 3 is a very good game. Your allowed to do all of the above mentioned plus play as a 
 darker version of the hero. And in the Collector Edition you can be the new goblin. However its 
 not perfect. There were some minor glitches and camera issues. But they didn't interfere with game 
 play so its okay. After Spider-Man and Spider-Man 2 you would think that Treyarch would have added 
 more especially for the first next gen Spidey game. Oh the graphics and the city look incredible. 
 However the people in the city are the same as they were in the last game. I was expecting more 
 interaction. Yet, this game is far more better than other Superhero games. Superman Returns come 
 to mind. Spider-Man 3 lets you play the story mode or play the many mini games. Such as racing 
 , sky diving and collecting various awards. So if you enjoy Spider-Man and like the escapism of 
 comics then I recommend this game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: b_wilcox
Rating: 4.9
Date: May 8, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  I can't believe I plunked down $70 for the Collector's Edition of this game. I paid that much for 
 Gears of War CE... now that wasn't such a bad investment. But shelling out for this phenomenally 
 disappointing game certainly was.
  
  Spidey 3 is being tarred and feathered by movie critics and game critics alike. The film seemed 
 to be a very halfassed effort by Sam Raimi, and the game, similarly, appears to have been a rush 
 job. What makes both so frustrating is that they have enormous ambitions -- three villains! -- but 
 virtually no delivery on these lofty aims.
  
  As for the game, let's just say that playing it over an HDMI cable with a 1080p HDTV doesn't help 
 mask the graphical shortcomings. New York City looks very dull and lifeless, Spidey seems cartoonish, 
 and the cutscenes are abominable. Oh, and the frame rate stutters regularly. Thumbs down to the 
 visuals, which should be a strong point for an action series.
  
  Gameplay isn't a disaster but it's far from being a breakthrough. Swinging from building to building 
 is still one of the cooler concepts in modern gaming, but it can only go so far. Villains do nothing 
 but swarm, swing, and shoot -- there's nothing inventive about them, or the bosses. And while the 
 idea of stringing together punch/kick combos a la God of War sounds appealing, it isn't well executed. 
 Thumbs down here as well.
  
  The audio, you ask? Voice work is horrendous and sound effects don't stand out. Thumbs down... again.
 
  
  I can't express my disappointment with Spider-Man 3 enough. Activision and Treyarch are solid gaming 
 folks, but this is just a wickedly unenjoyable experience all the way around. The first indignity 
 you suffer is having to wait a few minutes on initial loading for the PS3 to lose about 3 GB of 
 space to game files... but maybe that's a sign that you should just eject the damn disc and get 
 back to Resistance or Tekken: Dark Resurrection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slipknotmaggot1
Rating: 7.1
Date: May 8, 2007 1:46 pm PT
Review:  the graphics are alright.. some of the movie graphics could be better.. in game graphics are better 
 then 2's but could be better. it was made for all systems though, so they had to keep it down obviously.. 
 Sounds are pretty good for voice actors/ess.. FX, are good.. Gameplay is awesome.. its worth it 
 if you liked Spider-man 2.. If you get the special addition for the PS3 you get the new Green Goblin, 
 and he's fun to ride around the city in. So over all its the next best game to Spider-man 2.. The 
 game flows pretty well from scene to scene, and there isn't that much delays with loading times.. 
 There doesn't seem to be many glitches in the game so far, but i'll play around with it some more.. 
 The jumping takes a little getting used to, but the combat system has improved a lot.. and yeah 
 Bruce Cambell is still the man in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: p3boi
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2007 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Could be better, but everygame could be a little bit better. I think spidey 3 is good enough for 
 now and once another spiderman movie comes out, spidey 4 will be better. Even though it did not 
 have the main points like the movie did, spiderman 3 still is a very good game to play. I rented 
 it before I brought it, however i should have just brought it because it is a game to buy. I already 
 have 6 hours into it. The black spiderman is awesome to.. I kind of wish i could have played as 
 the goblin however i still had fun just playing as peter parker himself 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willps3
Rating: 8.9
Date: May 7, 2007 8:21 pm PT
Review:  Please do not follow Gamespot review. The game is excellent. I sold my PS3 so I can get Xbox 360 
 because of Gears of War and Halo3, but the point is PS3 or Xbox 360 this game is great! At first 
 it may seem boring, but give it time into the different story lines and you'll fall in love with 
 this game. The graphics are great, and the gameplay has been upgraded. I'm sure you might even 
 enjoy extras on the PS3. Disregard Gamespot's review. If you enjoyed the previous Spiderman games 
 you will love this one. I recommend it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drummer4drb
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  Spider-Man 3 for the Playstation 3 console is merely an average game. The first thing I noticed 
 was the graphics, which we're Playstation 2 quality. Another thing was the fact that Spider-Man 
 3 resembles the first two games way too much. The only difference is the missions, which didn't 
 completely follow the plot of the movie. Another thing I wasn't impressed with was the combat, 
 which got old rather quickly. You have two buttons to push, Square or Triangle, and Spider-Man 
 will then do miraculous combos, which got boring after a while. Lots of the fun is found in the 
 free-roam web-slinging, but that became dull and boring after slinging for a couple blocks. I'd 
 say that Spider-Man 3 is worth renting for those who haven't played the 1st or 2nd game, but you 
 wont find much new here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 8, 2007 7:12 am PT
Review:  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review. Spiderman 3 is more like a game on its on rather 
 than a movie tie in. Below are my opinions and review:
  
  Gameplay: 9/10
  The first 10 mins of tutorial is the most horrible part of the game. Actually the series of spiderman 
 games all have horrible tutorial levels. Gets the job done though.
  
  I'm pretty impressed with the web swinging which is what sold me SM3. The camera is kinda annoying 
 and the first thing I did was to change them to invert so it is more natural to me. Not sure about 
 you guys but inverted camera controls seems to be in most games which I'm used to. The fighting 
 mechanics are pretty straightforward.
  
  Difficult bosses are actually great because they are supposed to be some Super Villians while you 
 are a Super Hero! The game has some GTA open missions going on; I hear a police siren, switch on 
 spider sense, the police car is highlighted, follow it and solve crime!
  
  Graphics: 7/10
  Spidey looks the best, most bosses look great, J. Jonah Jameson looks great, 
 Harry Osborne looks great, Eddie Brock looks great, Mary Jane looks ok. But why?! Why does Tobey, 
 I mean, Peter Parker looks like crap?! Ok, maybe Peter Parker looks kinda crappy in the comics 
 but can't they at least make the main character look better?
  
  Overall, the graphics are acceptable as it has do many things going on; buildings, bridges, cars, 
 pedestrians etc. Frame rate became choppy at times but I still find it pretty acceptable. There 
 are no reflections of people on windows though, just reflections of buildings. Not so next gen 
 eh?
  
  Sound: 8/10
  Voices of the original actors are great. Bruce Campbell, the narrator, annoys me though. Sound 
 effects are ok. Music scores are from the movie so that can't go wrong.
  
  Value: 7/10
  Spiderman 3; the movie owned by Sony with the Playstation 3 font. You would have thought it'll 
 utilize the Cell or Bluray but no; It has no advantage over the Xbox 360's version except for the 
 Green Goblin character in the Collector's edition, and the loading will be slightly faster since 
 it installs about 2GB of data on the harddisk.
  
  So if you own both the PS3 and Xbox 360, and don't care about collector's edition, go with the 
 Xbox 360 since it's cheaper. I only have a PS3 and of course I got the Collector's Edition for 
 the Green Goblin. I felt that PS3 normal version should be the Collector's Edition. Reason? Come'on 
 we bought the console with Spiderman 3 fonts!
  
  Final thoughts:
  Sure, the game do have some glitches but most importantly, it's fun. When I first played it, I 
 spent like half an hour swinging through the cities. You can't do that with games like GTA. If 
 you like the movie, if you want to play as Spiderman, if you want to beat up Super Villians, get 
 the game. (Get the Collector's edition if you want to play as New Goblin as well) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 6.2
Date: May 6, 2007 11:11 pm PT
Review:  I'm seeing a common complaint about this game, and it seems to be right on almost every aspect. 
 Choppy frame rate, clumsy battle controls, and REALLY bad voice acting.... with the original cast 
 members no less! The only one who does a halfway-decent voice is whoever plays Mary Jane... and 
 she's the ONLY one who's not played by the original cast member. Really, it's ridiculous, they 
 all sound like they're bored in the sound studio, sitting around, smoking and reading lines from 
 a script for the couple-hundred-thousand dollar bonus they're getting from the studio to do the 
 game voices.
  
  And yes, the frame rate NEVER sustains any more than MAYBE 20-30 FPS, and that's during a cutscene. 
 Get into a heavy battle with more than a few thugs on screen... expect a frame rate drop to about 
 5-10 FPS. The camera is probably your worst enemy in this game, climbing on a building only to 
 have the camera flip upside down on you... really annoying.
  
  The game does have a lot of missions, but for anyone who's just trying to beat the game and get 
 done with it... like me... you almost have to do the stupid gang missions to get on with the story.
 
  
  And speaking of clumsy battle controls, it has bad collision detection, kinda reminds me of Matrix: 
 Path of Neo. I like the focus and ragdoll effects, but other than that, fighting gets real old 
 real fast in this game.
  
  Basically, I spent $60 on this game... totally not worth it, but also my fault for expecting so 
 much from a MOVIE TIE-IN game. I won't make that mistake again.... if you have to play it, rent 
 it on a boring weekend, beat it in about 13 or so hours, and be done with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkblade256
Rating: 7.4
Date: May 6, 2007 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This spider-man game is a very open ended game that did not get trapped by being based off of a 
 movie. Swinging around New York is so fun and the city is huge and look great. The spider-man model 
 looks good to and is rendered. The other models are sometimes lacking. For example the lizards 
 underground their skin looks great but has no shadowing on it. It is also frustrating while fighting 
 when the camera flips around so you can see or when he climbs a wall the angle is so weird. The 
 most annoying graphical glitch is when you are climbing the Daily Bugal and you get stuck inside 
 the building somehow because spider-man phased through the wall. This game is a must have for spider-man 
 fans and overall fun game. It still needed a little bit more polishing like a month more in the 
 shop then it would have been a truly amazing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: callumohare
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 6, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  a 6.6 is definatly NOT what this game should have scored...
  
  I'm not a big spiderman fan, but this game was fun as hell.
  Sure, it had its issues, but not 
 many. At night time, all the lights in New york shine from the buildings, causing so much movement 
 all at once that it can cause a bit of a frame rate issue, but nothing too bad.
  Also, when your in fights it can sometimes feel like your just button-mashing. The game is also 
 way too short. I beat it in 12 hours total (Actually, 11 hours 50 mins... but whatever) .
  
  The graphics are amazing... no dought about that.
  New york is fairly big... it'll take about 
 10 mins to swing at full speed from one side of the city to the other.
  
  Just to top it all off, the missions are all different. ... literally.
  While most of them are 
 just Kill the enemies , you must kill them in different ways.
  Reflex testers, make them run into a trail, throw them into somthing, kick them off a building, 
 etc.
  
  This is a rent... nothing more... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew0313
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 21, 2007 8:06 pm PT
Review:  Like your typical movie-based game, Spider-man 3 marks its release for the PS3 and XBOX 360 side-to-side 
 with its movie debut. The game puts you behind the mask once again as you swing across New York 
 as Spider-man, but also with addition of his Black Suited counterpart, and if you kicked in $10 
 extra, Harry Osborn/New Goblin as well.
  
  Considering Treyarch is behind the wheel of this game as the same from the previous Spidey games, 
 you roam around the greatly designed and detailed city of New York, thanks to this generation's 
 console's graphical power. Swinging is basically the same as of Spider-man 2 and Ultimate Spider-man, 
 simple controls that were left unchanged, if so, only to the minimum extent. A slight problem in 
 terms of camera, especially during wall-crawling, and now without the target lock-on feature, getting 
 around will need some getting used to at first.
  
  Combat in the game however, has a whole different view. Now mixing together the Reversal system 
 from SM2 and the Combos from USM, it gives you a whole new selection of ways to beat the hell out 
 of your foes. Another new addition to the game is Reaction commands, which scatches a playbook 
 from the God of War series. It may look like a second rate rip-off but it isn't all so bad. Buttons 
 and commands flash across the screen and pressing them could mean the difference between either 
 you or the other guy getting the beat down. All and all, seeing Spider-man flying across the screen 
 in a cinematic fashion is the good thing about this.
  
  Like the movie, you'll also get the feeling of what it's like to be under the infamous black suit, 
 making yourself more feral and aggressive, which means more devastating and destructive moves to 
 unleash on enemies. Although the basic combos remain unchanged in this state, the special moves 
 and different reaction sequences sets this costume apart from your original red and blue.
  
  Now that you got your superhero moves set and done, take your pick on whose going to be on 
 the recieving end of it. With a large collection of villains which ranges from beyond the movie, 
 the game almost makes it look like the odds are against you. From classic foes like The Lizard, 
 Scorpion, and Rhino, and ofcourse Venom, Sandman, and the New Goblin as seen from the movie.
  
  In the end, Spider-man 3 makes for a great game that I feel is underappreciated. Sure there 
 are some flaws to the game but seeing through it you'll find a great game which is another great 
 installment in the Spider-man movie games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daphatcat
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 6, 2007 1:57 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are clean, controls are just the way I liked them from Spiderman 2. Some were expecting 
 too much of difference from Spiderman 2.... why change a platform that worked so well? With new-edge 
 graphics, I could swing around all day, its a rush! The camera can get caught, but this is readily 
 corrected by using the right stick to adjust the angle. The map functionality is incredible; you 
 can hunt for just about anything and have the map marker tell you where to go. Maybe Im putting 
 the horse before the carriage to play the game before I watch the movie, but Im happy to do it 
 for a game like this.
  
  DaPhatCat 
::::::

::::::
UserName: atvracer26
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 6, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  First off the camera angle really isn't even bad and it has not affected me thus far, one time so 
 far has it been a little bad and that's because i was in a tight room. The swinging is reall fun 
 and their is an upgrade you can get that lets you swing on two webs by pressing L2 and R2 at the 
 same time. Spiderman's webs are realistic in how they stick and move which i thought was a plus. 
 It is a button masher but the attacks are really cool and he uses not just his hands but his legs 
 equally as much in his attacks. Their is much to do besides main story, my personal favorite is 
 crime fighting, this is really fun and long, there are three different areas with areas inside 
 of those that you have to get all green by getting them up to 100%, overall great game do not listen 
 to these game sites, they are wrong!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kevass007
Rating: 7.8
Date: May 6, 2007 10:46 am PT
Review:  Spiderman 3: Good, why?
  - You cant tell me swinging around a huge life like world, going 130 mph isn't fun. - Awesome cinematics; 
 between stopping a train, or disabling a bomb with a couple touches of a button
  - Hilarious narrations to help you learn how to play
  - Hours of great missions to play
  - 
 A new darker side of spiderman to play
  - New moves, swinging abilities, and more!
  - Quick load times, no loads while swinging through city
  - You can swim!!!!
  - All in all 
 a really fun game to play
  
  Spiderman 3: Bad, why?
  - Animations, like turning around, are missing a few actions
  - Your always in your spiderman 
 suit, you dont have a home, you cant drive vehicles, bridges go nowhere.
  - Some fighting can become a bit ridiculous or hard, but you'll get around it
  - Sometimes exploring 
 the huge city gets boring ( so play the missions)
  - you can't go into most buildings
  - The graphics arent all that great, but that should'nt be the reason you wont buy this game
 
  
  Spiderman 3: well should i buy it?
  - i'd just like to point out the only reason this game is being put down so harshly is because 
 people were expecting to much for this game to deliver
  - its fine just the way it is, there's nothing they could have added to make this game more enjoyable 
 then it already is
  - your better off renting this game first and then looking into buying it, mainly because there 
 are good things and bad things about this game, and its your decision and mindset that will tell 
 weather or not this game is good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8
Date: May 6, 2007 10:48 am PT
Review:  Finally I get to play my first spiderman game on the PS3 and it looks great. If you've play spiderman 
 2 than you're won't see that much of an upgrade on this one. The only thing you'll notice is the 
 next gen graphics. If you haven't seen the Spiderman 3 movie I suggest you go see it first before 
 you play this game because there are a lot of spoilers. I bought the game way before I saw the 
 movie so I had to wait til the movie came out before I played it. You'll have missions based on 
 the movie and you'll also face villians that are not in the movie in the game like Kingpin, Rhino, 
 and scorpion. There's a lot of button mashing in this game so don't think anything has change from 
 the previous games. Also you'll have moments without notice that you'll have to press whatever 
 buttons are on screen to do action. Just like the mini games that are in god of war which is cool. 
 But sometimes it gets a little annoying that you'll have to keep on doing it over and over again 
 til you hit the button at the correct time. Also you'll have a totally of 42 missions in the games, 
 you also fight crime, and the more you'll progress in the game the more things you'll unlock. Also 
 in tall building you're be collecting little spider along the way of the games as collectibles. 
 The boss battles can get annoying but not to a point where you'll be smashing you're controller. 
 If you're a fan of spiderman you should definitely buy this game if not go rent it and see if this 
 is the spiderman you'll been looking for. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAboy06
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 5, 2007 3:06 pm PT
Review:  I don't know why critics don't like this game! This is the best Spiderman game so far. Playable 
 New Goblin may not be worth an extra $10, but it adds a good amount of replay value to an already 
 nice length game. The graphics are not too impressing during the cut-scenes, but they look great 
 in actual gameplay. The combat is simple, but in-depth, and fun. The boss battles may be hard, 
 but they are a great challenge, and you really feel the power of the villians. The only negative 
 thing about the CE is that it cost $70, and it seems a bit expensive. The random crimes are in 
 variety, and the crime fighting gives you a nice break from the missions. Overall I will recommend 
 this game to any Spiderman fan, and to anyone who is looking for a good beat-em-up action game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3PMMP3
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 5, 2007 2:48 pm PT
Review:  ok i understand that this games graphics still suck and camera problems but thats it i really dont 
 see anything bad about this game yeah the price for the collectors edition is too high but hey 
 this is the only action game you'll get to play thats on PS3 i mean theres really nothing coming 
 out so i rather buy this game if your an action type of person so this is why i give this game 
 this score also the video interviews are good but i think they could of added more also the six 
 axis for the goblin are fun i think this game has the best six axis either rent the game or buy 
 the game its up to you i think its a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sxemarcjf
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 5, 2007 12:46 pm PT
Review:  i have never played a game that made me swear out loud as often as spider-man 3. The game play 
 is ruined by the stupid camera- the graphics are ok at best, especially when you take character 
 models into consideration. the sound fluctuates in volume so much that you are continually turning 
 your volume up to hear dialog and then back down because of some sound effects. objectives are 
 poorly explained- or sometimes not at all explained...
  after all of this there are a few addicting sheds of fun- but it would be a stretch to say it is 
 a good game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallb4me
Rating: 3.5
Date: May 5, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  Title says it. I didn't think it was good at all and It was slow, kind of buggy, and all around 
 crappy. The graphics were good but thats about it. Sadly. I really enjoyed spider man 2 but this 
 just shot down my thoughts about the game series. You could just say I didn't like it. But I have 
 all respect for all of you that do. I'm just giving my opinion. I hate this game sorry people. 
 But I probably won't ever play this terrible game again. It just is horrible in my opinion sorry. 
 I will just stick to playing spider man 2. For all of you that haven't bought it yet, save your 
 money and if you really want to play it, rent it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crow114
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 4, 2007 10:46 pm PT
Review:  As we all knew the makers of spiderman 3 the movie hired activision to make the game adaptation 
 of the film. The game is a mimxture of incredible freedom and fun and the occasional bit of frustration 
 when your fighting a mob of enemies. But mostly you get the freedom of swinging around new york 
 doing missions and thwarting criminals who when defeated can put on a delightful show of the ragdoll 
 physics. All in all this game offers great fun.
  
  Gameplay: Good with fun moves to due but suffers from no six axis 8.5/10
  
  Graphics: The graphics 
 in this game are beautiful and give you quite a bit to look at 9/10
  
  Sound: The Sound is good altough some of the enemies say some dumb things 8.5/10
  
  Value: 
 This game is worth the money for anyone who likes spiderman or fun games 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaDark
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 10:55 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman 3 on the PS3, sure it has some graphical issues here and there.
  The frame rate drops every now and then, which is really annoying at first... but once you learn 
 to look beyond that, the greatness starts to show.
  
  What most people don't understand about these kinds of game is that. they are HUGE! You can't expect 
 to have a large version of Manhattan with high rez building textures, many many moving cars on 
 the streets, and enough pedestrians to make the city seem real with out taking a hit now and then.
 
  Add the extra task of running all these tasks in HD @ 720p, and you've got your self quite a heavy 
 burden.
  
  One thing that I can not offer and explanation for is the horrible camera system. You CAN control 
 the camera with the right analog stick, but you might as well not even try since it resets itself 
 to whatever the game deems proper. For the most part its a minor annoyance I got used to, but during 
 certain situations, the camera angle is actually the cause of your downfall.
  It doesn't make the game unplayable, its just some thing you'll learn to live with... but everyone 
 would agree with me that THIS NEEDS TO BE ADDRESSED in some kind of patch.
  
  The Spiderman character models look great!
  The supervillians are looking really good.
  Movie 
 characters like Peter Parker, Mary Jane, Robbie, and JJ aren't looking too hot, they look slightly 
 better than they would have on Spiderman 2.
  The pedestrians on the street look way better than they did in Spidey 2, but who really cares about 
 them? :p
  
  At its core, Spidey 3 is very similar to Spidey 2 from a few years ago, with some extra improvements.
 
  You no longer have to Purchase upgrades, this time they are simply unlocked automatically based 
 on thing you do in game.
  The generic street gangs are back, and they definitely aren't any smarter.
  Everyone will also 
 be happy to know that the stupid little girl and her BALLOON are no longer in the game. *CHEER!*
 
  
  Another great improvement over previous Spidey games is the ability to cut straight to the story! 
 You no longer HAVE TO complete races, stop # of crimes, or even go on a spree. You can pick which 
 story line quest you wish to begin, and have at it.
  Of course, the main storyline isn't available from the beginning. You'll have to go thought a few 
 different story missions before that is available.
  
  Web slinging through the city is even more fun this time due to the more realistic look of both 
 the city and Spidey! This alone will keep you busy exploring the vast city for hours on end.
  
  One feature that HAS YET TO BE MENTIONED BY ANY REVIEW is the new Camera System . Peter Parker 
 is a photographer for the Daily Bugle, yet to this day... we have yet to have that included in any 
 game to this extent.
  At anytime, you can pull out your camera and begin taking pictures of enemies and various things 
 about the city. Although I'm not sure what the scores are for, the game awards your photography 
 skills with points.
  You can even talk to Robbie at the Daily Bugle and receive assignments around the city to photograph.
 
  
  Since I'm not even close to being doing with the game, I have yet to encounter any of the really 
 juicy parts you'll see in the film, and cannot comment on anything further.
  I simply thought I would give my 2 cents on a game I know I'll still be playing when the next Spiderman 
 game is released. (I just put Ultimate Spiderman for Xbox away to make room for this game.)
  
  If you are a Spidey fan, and are willing to put up with an odd ball camera system and the occasional 
 drop in frame rate, I definitely recommend this game to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallen_saint
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 4, 2007 6:04 pm PT
Review:  the game play behind Spider-Man 3 is very similar to that of Spider-Man 2, you fillout certain 
 story missions and side missions to progress throughout the game. While much hasn't change since 
 the last installment, Spider-Man 3 does pack in a few more extras from the last. Where as from 
 the last game you were limited to the streets of New-York, now you're able to travel through the 
 sewers and subway system (mainly during the story missions) . Mission wise its still pretty much 
 the same, you run up to marker and activate said mission. Moving on the graphics and detail have 
 greaty improved since Spider-Man 2, though you do may see some poor detail on some building interiors 
 while webslinging. While on graphics, the detail on most of the characters is pretty decent with 
 most of it being spent ont Spider-Man and his black costume. Still on the detail, the game creators 
 have made the city more alive, by adding more people and moving cars into the game. As well as 
 some pretty nice lighting to the game when your webslinging during the night.
  
  Since I have the collectors edition, which gives you the ability to control New Goblin (as he called 
 in the game and movie) , is nice bonus for players to have the chance to play the bad guy of the 
 movie. All in all I give Spider-Man 3 a 8 1/2 out 10. While they've improved or reworked a lot 
 areas for this installment for the game, I feel that they could improve more in some areas, such 
 as the voice acting (they do use the movie actors) could me done more realistic/they're actually 
 the character rather than reading off a script, which I felt happened with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonofares
Rating: 8
Date: May 4, 2007 5:36 pm PT
Review:  Here we go with the 3rd edition ot Spider-Man. Since I have a 360 and a PS3 first of all I had 
 to make a choice which to buy. With the 360 I get the achievements but with the PS3 collector's 
 edition I get an extra level where I can play as New Goblin surfing through the air using the six-axis 
 motion sensor. So needless to say I had to go with the PS3 version. From a preview I read they 
 said the color was a little better on the PS3 anyway. So with the Collector's Edition that was 
 69 (my favorite number) bucks I got a movie ticket to see Spidey, a neat little Spidey collector's 
 card that changes scenes when you turn it, and an extra level. For ten more bucks might as well 
 huh? There's been such a drought on new games lately I was calling around yesterday to see if any 
 local WalMarts were putting it out at midnight so I could go scoop it up but couldn't confirm that 
 anywhere so I settled for today. Alright, so I just sat down and played a couple a few hours..... so 
 how is it?
  I like it alot...... I guess if it were a girl I'd as her to go steady. The gameplay in general 
 feels alot funner than the previous versions. Man.... it is just a cool freakin game! I was not 
 excited by the first two Spidey's. There's a cool tutorial level at the beginning that throws you 
 right into the action. Two things stick out immediately about this game that I like better than 
 the previous versions. First of all are the cinematics and how they mesh with the gameplay. There's 
 alot of cinematics and they mesh right into the gameplay and pop up alot during a mission and this 
 really helps tie in the storyline or the purpose of the mission you're in. I love storylines and 
 characters with personality. So the cinematics are very impressive to me..... so far I've seen some 
 great cut-scenes with Toby MacGuire and Kirsten doing the voices. Second thing that sticks out 
 to me that I really like is they've incorporated the gameplay feature of button-prompts; you know 
 during the gameplay or battle when a series of buttons will appear on screen and you must press 
 them fast enough and in the order they appear one by one. Alot of games have started using this 
 but this game uses it very well. Very well. If you mess up the buttons it takes you back and immediately 
 let's you try it again so to me that is very cool. Swinging through the city seems funner than 
 ever. Spidey improves his skills as he progresses. Like I said I'm not too far into the game yet 
 but so far it is greatly greatly improved over the first two. The first two Spidey's I didn't finish..... I 
 just got bored of the same ol thing pretty quick. But this one seems alot different just in the 
 way it's put together and alot of that has to do with the cut-scene cinematics tying in storylines 
 that gives it a more cohesive feeling. I can't wait to get more into it and hopefully it will be 
 the first Spidey game that I WILL WANT TO PLAY ALL THE WAY THROUGH!!! SO FAR IT LOOKS THAT WAY! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GFofgaming
Rating: 6.6
Date: May 4, 2007 2:16 pm PT
Review:  You know a game is bad when people stop what they're doing just to watch it suck. That's what reviewing 
 Spider-Man 3 was like. Every few minutes something appalling would happen, something so annoying 
 that passersby had to plant their feet and witness the horror. We're not saying Spider-Man 3 is 
 the worst game of the year, or the worst on any individual system, but it's easily one of the most 
 disappointing, rehashed experiences in a long while.
  
  First of all, Spidey's playground has not been drastically improved. It's the same New York you 
 slung webs through in 2004's Spider-Man 2, complete with Roosevelt Island and a near-perfectly 
 recreated Manhattan. Seeing as everyone's familiar with NY already, there's no great incentive 
 to swing around and explore. Some additions, like the extra bridges, just lead to a vast nothingness. 
 Granted, there's only so much you can do with a real-life city, but part of having one giant level 
 in the game is making it interesting for the player. We've done this twice now, and improved graphics 
 aren't enough of a reason to slap money down all over again.
  
  On the plus side, the 360 version is hands-down better than the PS3 game. That version is wrought 
 with sticky, choppy gameplay that sucks the web-slinging excitement right out of the air. At least 
 here you can still enjoy flipping and flying all over the place. It's also worth noting that some 
 areas of the 360 version actually look better than the PS3 version, yet with no overbearing slowdown.
 
  
  Scoring points for smoother gameplay isn't exactly a key victory when the rest of the game is just 
 like the last one in the series. Yes, the skyscrapers are quite daunting and looking out across 
 the entire city is a rush, but once that initial impact is gone, you're left with Spider-Man 2 
 Plus Some New Moves. And even tough the 360 version moves along smoother than the PS3, both suffer 
 from a surprisingly large amount of pop-in. If you're not familiar with the term, it means you'll 
 be walking or swinging along when major details will suddenly pop in to existence in front of you, 
 ranging from people and cars to whole buildings.
  
  You know how city folk get scared and run away in Grand Theft Auto or Crackdown? None of that here. 
 These zombified dolts keep walking in a straight line no matter what happens, be it Spidey and 
 the New Goblin getting into a fireball tossing match or a gang war erupting in the streets. They'll 
 blindly walk into walls, get stuck in corners, obstruct your path... the list keeps growing every 
 time we play, and we're already at the end, after 15 painful hours.
  
  Care for another other example of such nonsense? While fighting the New Goblin in the streets, 
 you might come across an open air streetball court. Rather than flying into the court with his 
 jet glider, the Goblin will hover around to the only part that's not fenced in and enter the proper 
 way - by using the entrance.
  
  The bosses are leftovers from last gen, with repeating attack patterns and unreasonable health 
 bars that recharge because the situation calls for it. You get to see Kingpin, Lizard, Kraven, 
 Scorpion, Rhino, Venom and Sandman, but fighting them is actually less fun than the underlings. 
 It's also incredibly silly to watch a group of street toughs shrug off hits from a genetically 
 enhanced superhero who can bench 10 tons. How many times do we have to watch dudes armed with stop 
 signs push Spidey around? Most of the boss battles end with a cineractive cutscene. Even without 
 the fancy name, you know what they are - taken from Shenmue or perhaps most notably now from God 
 of War, these intense moments play themselves out while you hit buttons that are supposed to correlate 
 with the on-screen action. Some may like the idea, some may not, but either way the button prompts 
 don't match the action. At least in GoW the commands made sense - here they feel useless and arbitrary.
 
  
  But before you can take down one of the big guys, you've got to get through the missions. Spider-Man 
 3 features multiple plot threads and you're able to pursue them in any order. It seems cool at 
 first, but eventually you'll see that it's not open-ended and 80% of the missions have to be completed 
 to move the story. The mission structure is not much different than before, either. Go here, guide 
 Spidey through a horribly designed interior, flail around trying to fight waves of criminals while 
 the camera does whatever it wants... yeah you know. Aside from a few clever bomb-disarming minigames, 
 there's nothing that hasn't already been done to death.
  
  Even the fighting is a mixed bag. Most of Spidey's new moves are hella cool with outstanding animations 
 and the black costume's extra power is a cool bonus, but when one of your touted features is a 
 Rage Mode, you know the fighting is getting stale. Still, swinging dudes into breakable objects 
 is super sweet. There are times when you can just let all your frustration go with an old-fashioned 
 web lasso attack and break every bone in some unlucky bastard's body. Oh, and the skyscraper-spanning 
 pile driver makes a triumphant return as well.
  
  If you adored the last game like we did (along with Ultimate Spider-Man) , you're going to be let 
 down. Perhaps you won't mind the same-as-before gameplay, but we should expect more from a series 
 that's generally done the movies justice. As it is, Spider-Man 3 is so by the numbers, so average 
 that we just can't muster much enthusiasm. Comic fans'll hate the inconsistent power levels while 
 hardcore gamers will balk at how routine it feels. Maybe the super-casual, movie-going audience 
 won't mind, but the rest of us certainly should. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fortgdg
Rating: 8.6
Date: May 4, 2007 1:12 pm PT
Review:  The only thing about this game that bothered me a lot was the camera angles, it would freak out 
 mostly when your climbing on the wall and trying to search for a hidden bomb or other objects while 
 on the walls are extremely hard cause of that. Other then that this game was a fun great game to 
 play, just like all the other spiderman games but it wasn't amazing. it is just like a roided version 
 of the previous spiderman pretty much with more places to go and better graphics. The webbing in 
 this game is alright almost seemed better in the past game but the good thing about this one is 
 the stupid repetitive missions like save the balloon or bring a million people to the hospital 
 have been eliminated from this version, making the game more fun and way more interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 6.9
Date: May 15, 2007 5:37 am PT
Review:  You know a game is bad when people stop what they're doing just to watch it suck. That's what reviewing 
 Spider-Man 3 was like. Every few minutes something appalling would happen, something so annoying 
 that passersby had to plant their feet and witness the horror. I' m not saying Spider-Man 3 is 
 the worst game of the year, or the worst on any individual system, but it's easily one of the most 
 disappointing, rehashed experiences in a long while.
  
  First of all, Spidey's playground has not been drastically improved. It's the same New York you 
 slung webs through in 2004's Spider-Man 2, complete with Roosevelt Island and a near-perfectly 
 recreated Manhattan. Seeing as everyone's familiar with NY already, there's no great incentive 
 to swing around and explore. Some additions, like the extra bridges, just lead to a vast nothingness. 
 Granted, there's only so much you can do with a real-life city, but in the last game swinging from 
 one end to the other was refreshing, liberating, exciting, amazing and all the other words you'd 
 associate with freely traversing the country's largest metropolitan area. The action was smooth 
 and everything felt like a Spider-Man game should.
  
  But that's not how it is in the PS3 version. The fresh-air feeling of web-slinging is gone, replaced 
 by a chugging sensation that feels like the game is running on an obsolete PC. This city is choppy, 
 often slowing to the point of jaw-dropping ludicrousness. You can't feel like Spider-Man if you're 
 moving like maple syrup. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
