-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Spider-Man: Web of Shadows
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/spidermanwebofshadows/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Great original story.
 Fun, accessible combat system.
 Swinging around the city is a delight.
 Good variety of enemies and mission objectives.
 Some memorable boss fights.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Occasional technical issues with graphics and sound.
 Camera occasionally comes unstuck.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 24, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.0, 39 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 611 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Activision
Developer: Shaba Games
Genre: Action
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Web of Shadows is a fast-paced, soaring superhero adventure that delivers just about everything 
 a Spider-Man game should. 

  There have been a number of Spider-Man games in recent years, and they have often been as frustrating 
 as they have been fun. In this latest outing, however, developers Treyarch and Shaba Games have 
 gotten it right. Freed from the confines of a movie license, Web of Shadows is a game that, while 
 not free of blemishes, is a superpowered blast from start to finish.  

           The black suit certainly has its advantages.      

  The terrific introduction throws 
 you right into the midst of a crisis. The forces of SHIELD have occupied New York and are fighting 
 a losing battle against a massive symbiote invasion. Amid the chaos, Spider-Man is desperate to 
 find Mary Jane. After a quick tutorial that has you swinging across the city pummeling symbiotes, 
 you encounter MJ, and it's clear that all is not well between Peter and her. As she chastises him 
 for using his black symbiote suit, a mysterious figure emerges from a nearby explosion, extends 
 its symbiotic tendrils to envelop Spider-Man, and everything goes dark. Then the game flashes back 
 to four days prior, when Venom assaulted Spider-Man and part of the symbiote that gives Venom his 
 power attached itself to our hero, giving him greater, more destructive strength. This lets you 
 pick up cars and hurl them at Venom, which is as spectacular and satisfying as it sounds. With 
 Venom defeated, everything seems normal again in New York, and Spidey has more run-of-the-mill 
 problems to deal with, like full-scale gang wars. But we know the crisis that looms on the horizon. 
 It's a great setup that pulls you in and makes you eager to keep playing to find out how things 
 get so bad and how it all ends.  

  The game slows down a bit at this point as Luke Cage takes Spider-Man under his wing to show him 
 some swell moves that will come in handy when dealing with those gangs and everything else Spidey 
 will face. The combat system is simple and accessible enough to let you pull off gorgeous, powerful 
 moves just by button mashing, but it has enough depth that skillful players who familiarize themselves 
 with the countering system and the variety of attacks at Spidey's disposal will get more out of 
 it. Particularly fun is the webstrike, which has you zip up to an opponent and kick off of him 
 into the air, from where you can webstrike the next opponent, chaining together a series of attacks. 
 Some situations make especially good use of this move; at one point, for instance, Spidey must 
 clear a series of snipers on rooftops surrounding a city block in a roof-hopping, webstriking tour 
 de force. As you progress, you earn experience points that you can spend on useful new combos. 
 You can also switch between the red suit and the black suit at any time, but the differences between 
 them, aside from the aforementioned car-throwing ability of the black suit, are relatively minor. 

  Swinging and zipping your way across Manhattan is easy and tremendously liberating, and Spidey 
 leaps, soars, and dives through the air with a preternatural grace. It's such a joy that you may 
 want to spend some time swinging high above the city enjoying the sense of freedom and ignoring 
 the crimes happening far below, of which there's never any shortage, should you feel like breaking 
 some skulls. A few of the game's more thrilling moments have you putting your webswinging skills 
 to good use as you pursue villains across the city; though the chase sequences aren't especially 
 challenging, the breathless sense of speed (and, in one case, the wake of destruction the villain 
 you're pursuing leaves behind him) makes them a lot of fun.  

           Zipping around the city during chase sequences like this one is thrilling.      

  
 While Treyarch's movie-based Spider-Man games tried to shoehorn a lot of content into the game 
 using side missions that made much of the action seem peripheral, here, everything ties in to the 
 game's excellent story, resulting in a cohesive, compelling experience from start to finish. As 
 in past games, you'll swing around the city to take on various missions, which are given here by 
 a selection of characters from the Marvel universe. Whether you deal primarily with heroes or with 
 villains depends on some choices you make. From time to time, you'll have to decide whether to 
 do the moral thing or to give in to the temptations of Peter's dark side. These choices don't have 
 much impact, though, because the missions you undertake are largely the same regardless of whom 
 you're undertaking them for, though there are a few different endings to the game that vary based 
 on whether you're more aligned with the red suit or with the black. You can also call on an ally 
 for support at almost any time, and whether you're joined by a hero or a villain will also depend 
 on the decisions you make, but you probably won't feel the need to use this feature much.  

  There's an excellent variety to the missions and to the enemies you fight that keeps things from 
 growing stale. You'll take on easily dispatched thugs, hulking mechs, and enemies who fly around 
 on Green Goblin-esque gliders. Combat against airborne enemies is especially thrilling, because 
 the camera generally does a terrific job of circling around to stay focused on the action, creating 
 a dizzying sense of altitude as you see the city spinning below. There are also a number of great 
 boss fights, including a fight with Vulture that has you swinging from flying enemy to flying enemy 
 to reach him, and a knock-down, drag-out brawl against Wolverine, who doubts your identity and 
 so will periodically quiz you on obscure bits of Spider-Man lore to determine if you're the real 
 Peter Parker, which is a nice bit of fan service for hardcore Spider-Man fans.  

  It's in the game's final act, though -- when New York is once again the symbiote-infested, SHIELD-occupied 
 city glimpsed in the game's introduction -- that the missions become outstanding. Pockets of humans 
 need to be rescued from buildings and rooftops throughout the city, and there's a real sense of 
 desperation as you accompany SHIELD APCs and hovercraft and fight to protect the civilians from 
 oncoming swarms of symbiotes that you can see approaching even through walls, thanks to your handy 
 spider sense. The symbiotes are relentless and a bit creepy, and the feeling of dread is enhanced 
 by the gloomy red sky and the desperate skirmishes taking place all over the city between SHIELD 
 troops and symbiotes.  

  Red skies or blue, the city looks beautiful, especially when you're swinging high above it. You 
 can see the skyscrapers of Manhattan stretching far off into the distance, with light reflecting 
 convincingly off their surfaces. The city still looks sharp when you're on the ground, though it's 
 not especially detailed and doesn't have the amount of activity you'd expect. You'll occasionally 
 see odd things, like people walking up against walls or vehicles with their front wheels on top 
 of the car in front of them, which can be distracting, but they don't happen often enough to severely 
 impact the experience. The Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions look nearly identical, though we 
 did encounter a few instances of screen tearing on the PS3, which seemed to be absent on the 360. 

           Fighting airborne enemies is a blast.      

  The sound is generally good, with some strong performances from the voice cast. Spider-Man delivers 
 his so-bad-they're-funny (sometimes) one-liners with great geeky charm, while also giving a sense 
 of the inner conflict he's experiencing in his struggle with the black suit. The music is sweeping 
 and cinematic, but the best accompaniment to Spidey's swinging is the whistling of the wind you 
 hear when there's no music at all. The sound has its technical issues, though; music and dialogue 
 will sometimes cut out for a moment, and dialogue during cutscenes occasionally gets out of sync 
 with the action.  

  Web of Shadows doesn't break the mold of earlier Spider-Man games, but its cohesive, engaging story, 
 varied missions, and consistently thrilling action sure make it a big improvement for the series. 
 The campaign is a good 12 hours long, and the gameplay is solid enough to hold up to a second play-through 
 if you want to find out how it ends when you choose a different path. There are a number of minor 
 technical issues, but they're far outweighed by the sheer enjoyment of the gameplay. Web of Shadows 
 delivers nearly everything you could want in a Spider-Man game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: drake_m
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 20, 2009 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  I haven't played a good Spider-Man game since Spider-Man 2: Enter Electro was released for the 
 PlayStation 1. Ever since Tobey Mcguire was dubbed "Spider-Man", I've been reluctant to embrace 
 the games that used the movie storylines and Tobey sound-alikes. Since Web of Shadows was supposed 
 to lean towards the comic version of Spider-Man, I decided to give it a chance.
  
  Gameplay
  The game centers around missions, quests and the ability to freely roam the city.
 
  
  I did not spend much time freely roaming the city because there wasn't anything interesting to 
 do. You can save people from enemies and kill things. Its boring and not worth spending your time 
 on. 
  
  Missions progress the game's story and side-quests give you tiny bits of non-essential story and 
 experience points. When playing through the game, I started off trying to do all of the missions 
 and sidequests. Quickly I became disinterested in the sidequests because I did not need the experience 
 they offered or the mini-bits of story attached to them.
  
  Most of the missions feel repetitive since they usually revolve around killing something, saving 
 someone, or escorting something. The missions do throw a bit of variety in there, but ultimately 
 you're still doing the same thing over again.
  
  Spider-Man can learn different moves or combos by purchasing them with experience points. Experience 
 points are earned by defeating foes. The object is to get more combos, consecutive hits, in order 
 to raise the amount of experience points that you earn. I did not bother trying to get a high hit 
 count because most enemies died after a few hits and because I easily obtained all the experience 
 points I needed to purchase upgrades. These upgrades or rather combos are very easy to learn. I 
 was especially fond of the mini-videos in the profile that showed the skills being used.
  
  The game also features a "Spider-sense" feature. This feature lets you locate enemies and to move 
 out of the way of incoming attacks. The spider-sense feature also allows you target specific enemies. 
 The targeting system is flawed since it does not work well during boss fights or aerial fights. 
 I had a lot of problems with it during the Symbiote infused Electro fight. There were several electrolings 
 (Electro symbiote infused spawn) around Electro during the fight. These enemies frequently teleported 
 and that made it a pain to try to target them. I ended up not using the targeting system during 
 the battle since you could not change targets fast enough or efficiently.
  
  Most of the boss fights are boring, repetitive and unchallenging. The boss fights usually involve 
 killing several symbiote pods. Once these pods are destroyed, the boss is weakened and can be pummeled 
 to death. Many of the boss fights are easily won by using the same repetitive moves over and over 
 again. I found myself using the web strike technique, a technique that draws you to the enemy, 
 and then furiously pressing the square button until the enemy was dead.
  
  The rest of the enemies are also quite easy todefeat. Enemies will attack you, but they won't make 
 it their life mission to kill you. Most of the time I found myself ignoring them if I wasn't going 
 to be required to kill them. I also want to mention that you can leave during fights to regenerate 
 your health. This makes the game pitifully easy and it gives me no incentive to try to dodge harmful 
 attacks from the enemy.
  
  Even though the game is easy, the game developers decided to add an ally system. During fighting 
 you build up what is referred to as a "special" bar. This bar is built up by doing combos or simply 
 attacking everything. This bar is used to activate an ally of your choice. Certain allies will 
 only be able to appear in certain situations. The allies you receive are also determined by whether 
 or not you chose to use the red or black suit when you first encounter them. Once you activated, 
 allies follow you around and attack things close to you. This ally system works well, but I would 
 have preferred an option to dictate where my ally goes during battle. It would have been very handy 
 in situations where I had to defend two places at once. 
  
  I also want to mention that the PlayStation 3 version of the game seems to have a glitch in the 
 "Fat Man Sings" mission. In the mission, you are supposed to disable generators on Fisk's building. 
 You are supposed to be able to disable a generator by crawling on it and pressing square. My initial 
 thoughts were that the area had to be clear of enemies in order to be activated, but I repeatedly 
 cleared the area and was never able to activate the generators. I ended up having to reload my 
 save file several times before the game would let me disable the generators.
  
  The game also suffers from strange camera problems. There is one mission in which you have to remove 
 bombs from a building and take them to bomb containment areas. The bomb containment areas were 
 located on side streets by the bomb covered building. When I went to one of the corners of one 
 of these streets, the camera would vertically move back and forth. (Like a weird windshield wiper 
 affect) The camera would also do this when attempting to use the Web-Zip ability. (Web zip allows 
 you to scale a side of a wall instantly without you having to slowly crawl up it.) This was really 
 troublesome and often left me literally wondering which end was up.
  
  The camera also locks up or won't move (rotate) while you're doing random things in the game. I 
 found that this happened a lot while I was webslinging through the city. 
  
  Story (*Major Spoilers*) 
  The comic book based story in Web of Shadows revolves around Spider-Man 
 trying to figure out how he can destroy Venom and the massive amounts of symbiotes in New York 
 City. The story also lightly touches on being good or evil aka using the red or black Spider-Man 
 suit. The game also features encounters with different heroes and villains from the Marvel Comics 
 universe. 
  
  I've managed to play through the game twice with each of the different suits. In game, you are 
 given the choice to use the black suit or red suit in certain situations. These situations provide 
 different outcomes that don't alter the story very much. Basically, if you defeat a bad guy and 
 chose the black suit, the bad guy will become your ally. The same is true for the opposite. I was 
 disappointed to find out that these choices had little affect on the over all storyline. The only 
 huge affect you see is divulged in the game endings. I've managed to play the game through twice 
 and I have received a black suit and a red suit ending. The red suit ending was the trite typical 
 superhero saves the day ending. The black suit ending was much more interesting. Spider-Man decides 
 to partner with Black Cat to destroy the city. S. H. I. E. L. D decides to use a Symbiote-infused Wolverine 
 to take out Spider-Man. The game ends at this point. Its quite a shame, because this would have 
 provided an interesting story and more incentitive to play.
  
  Overall the story is not engaging and is disappointing since choosing the black or red suit seems 
 to have no real affect on the game's story.
  
  Graphics 
  When I first turned the game on, I was blown away by the graphics. The city looked as if it was 
 similar to Liberty City in Grand Theft Auto IV. Upon further exploration of the city, I found that 
 I was mistaken. The game lacks the intricate details found in Grand Theft Auto IV. The city primarily 
 consists of buildings, free roaming enemies, cars and people running in the streets. Every inch 
 is completely indistinguishable from the next. Despite that the city is rather bland, its still 
 looks good and is an enjoyable place to webswing around.
  
  The characters in the game aren't detailed. Everyone seems as if they're walking around in a stiff 
 plastic suit. Facial expressions seemed limited, but in the end it doesn't take away from the game.
 
  
  The game suffers from minor graphical glitches. A few times I notice windows in buildings turning 
 into solid black squares. Alternatively, there would be gaps of black space in corners of walls.
 
  
  Sound
  The character voices in the game are mediocre. The guy playing Spider-Man sounds like a pre-pubescent 
 version of Tobey Mcguire. The rest of the voice actors aren't as bad, but they still leave something 
 to be desired. For example, Black Cat's voice during boss fights does not come off as sultry. It 
 comes off as a drunk voice actress simply reading lines off a paper. Its a terrible shame that 
 the voice actors used in the 1990's television series were not used in this game.
  
  The game's music and sound affects are adequate and don't stand out at all. I have no complaints 
 or compliments to give about either.
  
  Replay Value & Extras
  There isn't much incentiveto play through this game over and over again. There are no trophies, 
 unlockables, costumes or anything extra in the PlayStation 3 version of the game. The only reason 
 to replay the game would be to see all four endings. Considering how disappointing my endings were, 
 I can't say I'll be motivated to play through it any time soon.
  
  Overall
  Spider-Man: Web of Shadows is a sub-par action/adventure game that I don't recommend purchasing 
 because of the dull story and the lack of difficulty. At the least its the kind of game you should 
 rent if you're bored and have a few hours to kill.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireknight23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 5:15 am PT
Review:  There have been many spider man games over the years some good some crap. But web of shadows is 
 just great best spidey game ever hands down lets have a chat about game play swinging around feels 
 tight and fun reminiscent of spider man 2 in fact all the controls feel just right the best part 
 about gameplay for me aerial combat spidey really shows off his skills gracefully gliding though 
 the air while delivering punishing blows to some green goblin wanna bees. fighting on the ground 
 is just as fun though not quite as spectacular. Fans will like that u can switch from regular to 
 symbiont spiderman on the fly and throw cars about like toys. The story itself is comic book style 
 goodness thank god its not a movie based failure not pointing figures but spiderman 3 anyone? he 
 paid a visit to the matrix in that one folks.
  Anyway i could go on and on but ill just say if you like spiderman treat yourself if you like action 
 games your in for a good one . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mysteriojoe
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 1, 2009 9:36 pm PT
Review:  Wow.... I can't believe this game is rated so high by users. Are we playing the same game? This 
 is the worst Spider-Man game ever... (No, I have not played Spider-man 3) 
  
  The Good:
  
  Spider-man (for the most part) looks good . Looks more like the Spidey from the comic book 
 (1970's Romita style) than the movie one from other games.
  
  The graphics in the city have look decent ''last gen'' sort of look. They look good from far away, 
 but don't get too close.
  
  Changing suits from the classic red and blue costume to the black ''Secret Wars'' costume is kind 
 of neat idea.
  
  Web slinging is fun, but not 100% smooth during game play. 
  
  The opening credits are presented in a really interesting way that I haven't seen in a video game 
 before. The game credits appear on billboards in Times Square as the camera follows Spider-man 
 as he swings by leading you around to each credit. 
  
  The Bad:
  
  Where do I begin?
  
  This game has the worst voice acting in the history of Spider-man video games. Spider-man sounds 
 like a teenage version of the nerdy professor guy from the Simpsons. Really, really annoying..... 
 
  The other characters in the game sound terrible as well, Luke Cage sounds like he is talking with 
 a turd in his mouth. The Black Cat sounds so campy and over the top. It's really painful to listen 
 to these characters in this game, especially when the voice acting was done so much better in past 
 Spider-man and Marvel games. Venom has the best sounding voice in this game out of all the characters, 
 but that isn't saying much!
  
  The web slinging is good, but is not 100% smooth. The wall crawling mechanics are so awful in this 
 game. Nothing is very fluid and the camera is so jerky, that you lose your bearings if you're on 
 the side of a building. The camera feels all over the place. Wall crawling feels too fast and awkward. 
 I honestly don't know what happened here.... the Spider-man 1 & 2 movie games or even Spider-man 
 (for the Dreamcast & N64) had way better wall crawling mechanics! Here's the kicker.... The same 
 company made those games, and then made this one. Go figure.
  
  The combat incredibly sucks in this game. It's punch, punch, kick, kick, web ball, web ball over 
 and over again. The. A. I. is so dumb in this game, it's just endless gang-banger after gang-banger, 
 or stupid robots on goblin gliders, shooting at you, shooting at the cops, shooting at each other, 
 over and over again. There are upgrades you can buy for special moves, but upgrading your moves 
 doesn't make any difference. The special moves are not fluid and way too clunky to enjoy doing. 
 Although, air combat is something new, and at times can be fun, it is also extremely frustrating 
 because of the terrible camera controls. 
  
  Although, Spider-man (the character) graphically looks good. The rest of the characters look very 
 blocky and just look very WRONG!!!! 
  Venom for example, has a weird ''egg shaped'' head, Luke Cage looks like he walked out of an N64's 
 a**hole. Mary Jane looks like a red headed troll women from Fable, that would make Peter Parker 
 grab a shovel, web sling down to the graveyard and dig up what's left of Gwen Stacy's remains... 
 scope them up put them in a jar, and take them on a date to the Coffee Bean!!! Don't get me wrong, 
 not that she looked amazing in other Spider-man video games, but Mary Jane in Web of Shadows looks 
 ''planet barf'' bad in this game. The thing that kills me is, all the character graphics look like 
 an early Xbox or PS2 game, and this is an 2008 release for the PS3 and 360!!!! 
  
  Overall, this game tries to be good, but fails. It is such an half a** effort on so many levels. 
 It's sad when my most favorite part of a Spider-man game is the opening game credits. Nuff' said! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: viewtiful_jay
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 6:51 pm PT
Review:  Yes, I'm one of "those" people who actually liked Spider-Man 3. Sure, the story was more or less 
 a Cliff's Notes version of the movie, and the parts that were glazed over. Sure, the voice acting 
 left a bit to be desired. Yes, the combat could be frustrating at times as enemies beyond your 
 basic level street thugs blocked everything you threw at them. But it was still a fun game, that 
 offered a LOT of replay value, in my opinion. I logged many, many hours into that game, and I'm 
 not ashamed to say that from a straight up gameplay standpoint, it was one of my favorite licensed 
 superheroe games.
  
  I had heard Web of Shadows was supposed to be head and shoulders above SM3, but it was a while 
 before I got around to buying it. I'll admit, my first impression was "dear god this game sucks", 
 but it's grown on me. Still, I think it leaves a little bit to be desired.
  
  Graphics: Okay, we're trading in the realistic visual style of the movie based game for a more 
 over the top comic book style. That's fine, I can live with that. What happened to the day/night 
 cycle of the previous games? I guess I can overlook that too, given the story is supposed to take 
 course over a couple of days. But what's with all the screen tears and framerate drops? Seriously, 
 this doesn't seem like THAT demanding of a game compared to plenty of other open world games we've 
 seen this gen. To me, it screams poorly optimized engine, but considering it's just a reskin of 
 SM3 for the most part, that doesn't make much sense. 
  
  Other than that, I've got to say I'm pretty impressed with the animation, especially on all of 
 Spidey's new moves. I think some of the models themselves look pretty bad, but overall, the visuals 
 in this game are okay. Nothing we haven't seen before.
  
  Sound: decent music. With a few exceptions here and there, the voice acting is HORRIBLE. Steve 
 Blum is okay as Wolverine, as he usually is, but what's up with this Spider-Man? His performance 
 makes even Tobey Maguire's half-assed voice overs in the video game movies sound magnificent. He 
 seems to at least convey Spidey's sense of humor, but overall, I find his voice too whiney and 
 annoying to be Spider-Man. The rest of the major characters are up and down. Some good, some bad. 
 
  
  Another cool thing is that citizens on the ground while make mention of Spidey every now and then, 
 having different actions depending on your allignment, and what suit you're wearing (more on that 
 in a bit) . But overall, the sound affects are the same "twipps", smacks, and explosions we've come 
 to expect from the Spider-Man franchise.
  
  Story: In a nutshell, Venom's back, and he's infecting normal people and metahumans all over New 
 York with his symbiote spawn. It's up to Spider-Man to take him down, following the good guy route 
 wearing the traditional red and blue outfit, or fighting fire with fire and going down the dark 
 path of wearing the black costume. A cast of various Marvel Heroes and Villians flesh things out 
 and will team up with Spidey based on his allignment and choices you make. 
  
  Overall, it's a somewhat unique story, but honestly I think I'm getting sick of symbiotes as plot 
 elements in games, and especially sick of Venom as the main enemy in the game. What I wouldn't 
 give for a good game based on the main Marvel universe focusing on the Green Goblin. Or better 
 yet, the Sinister Six. But I guess for yet another story focused on Spidey's most over used, overrated 
 villain, this is entertaining enough. But ONLY because there are some branching options through 
 your allignment choices.
  
  Gameplay: The bad thing about this game is when you first start, you're probablly going to get 
 into a few fights, and get frustrated as hell at how shallow the combat is. But after you've done 
 a few missions and collected a few spider tokens, you'll have more moves at your disposal, and 
 things start to flesh out a bit. And after a few hours, if you don't love the combat, something 
 is seriously wrong with you. This is the first time I can recall any game really leaving me feeling 
 that Spider-Man's speed and agility have been translated successfully into the combat mechanincs. 
 There's just something about being able to chain a web strike to half a dozen different enemies 
 - some on the ground, some on the wall, and some airborne - without touching the ground. 
  
  But what REALLY blows my mind is the wall and aerial combat mechanics. You remember that scene 
 in Spider-Man 2 (the movie) where Spidey & Doc Ock were fighting on a building, tumbling down, 
 and slamming each other into the wall? Well, Treyarch managed to nail that in this game. A good 
 wall battle can be pretty intense, even more so when you're dealing with enemies in the air, on 
 a wall, and on the ground. It really brings Spider-Man's gravity defying fighting style to life. 
 Same thing with the aerial combat. The boss battle against the Vulture was pretyt much epic, and 
 I couldn't believe how much fun I was having with the mechanics. Of course, it just made me even 
 more hungry for a Goblin battle of some type. Oh well.
  
  The suit switching element of Spider-Man 3 makes a comeback, a bit more fleshed out. When you're 
 in the black suit, you'll have access to a slightly different set of moves, you'll do a bit more 
 damage, and you'll find that your Spider sense can sniff out symbiotes disguised as ordinary people 
 in this mode. You'll also find that citizens tend to fear you, cops fire upon you, and your allignment 
 shifts toward evil. Heroes like Wolverine and Luke Cage want nothing to do with you, while baddies 
 like Electro and Rhino want to buddy up with you. It's a very interesting set of trade offs, and 
 for the most part, I like the way it was done. 
  
  I guess my issue with thihs game compared to SM3 are that most of the battles seem TOO easy. Especially 
 the boss fights. That, and the fact that other than the story, and the optional missions - which 
 are all simple things like "Destroy 2 combat mechs" and "save 3 civillians" - there's really not 
 a lot to do. No collectible tokens/icons, no races, no combat tours, no bomb disposals. It's all 
 pretty much "go kill these thugs", "go to this waypoint", et cetera. Which means the replay value 
 pretty much consists of playing the story mode again to get a new ending. There are four in all, 
 so I guess that's something to shoot for. Still, I like having an incentive to explore the city, 
 and I'd like something a little bit more involved than the upgrade spiders scattered throughout. 
 
  
  A couple final, minor parting gripes - the area of the city is smaller than in Spider-Man 3. There's 
 no Roosevelt Island, and no subway/sewers. Again, it's not very conducive to exploration, but at 
 least what is here looks good. And be prepared for glitches here and there. Like enemies not spawning 
 on a mission, leaving you unable to finish said mission. Or, enemies getting stuck in a wall and 
 becoming invulnerable, again, leaving you unable to complete a mission. Or freezes. Nothing major 
 or game breaking, just sad that the game's been out since October, and Activision has made no effort 
 to fix any of it. 
  
  I guess what's frustrating is that you can see so much potential here. Treyarch managed to deliver 
 on a lot of things I wasn't expecting to be executed particularly well, and it just seems like 
 with a couple months to polish it up, this game could've been a solid 8-9. Instead, it's pretty 
 much middle of the road. 
  
  Overall, Web of Shadows is a solid Spider-Man experience. The vast majority of people seem to like 
 it better than Spider-Man 3. I didn't, but hey, to each his own. Still, it's enjoyable, and I definitely 
 plan to play through it again to experience the black suit path in full. 
  
  If you can get this for $40 or less, I say jump on it. Otherwise, do yourself a favor and rent 
 it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 12:37 pm PT
Review:  By far, the best spiderman game ever made. You can do everything imaginable in this game. Anything 
 you've seen spiderman do in the movies, cartoons, comics you can do...
  
  Pros: It's way too much fun pouncing from one enemy to another. Swinging your webs throughout the 
 city and looking for bad guys really makes you feel like you are spiderman. I love the interaction 
 with new yorkers and how they route for you and make different comments. It's really neat. You 
 have to play to understand.
  
  Cons: Average acting (kind of corny at times) . Does not have my favorite villain the Green Goblin. 
 It's easy to harm civilians (can be a good thing depending on your personality I guess)
  
  I'm going to be honest, when I first got this game it fulfilled one of my childhood dreams, being 
 spiderman. It was as close as you could get. This is way too much fun. It's neat how you can call 
 on allies to fight at your side, especially Wolverine and Volture. Again tho I really wish the 
 Green Goblin was in this one. The storyline was pretty decent but lets face it. I play this game 
 to fly through the city and pound on bad guys. If you feel pretty destructive then switch to the 
 black suit and throw cars at bad guys.
  
  I feel like this is a definite buy... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killzone333
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:56 pm PT
Review:  SWOS is a fun game. I love the catasrophic feel to it. Turning from good to evil seems a bit dumb 
 though. I love roaming around and just having fun.
  
  The story is good, except some things aren't really even needed. Like Wolverine, he's cool - but 
 why is he in it? Venom turning all big at the end... I mean what the... I mean, it's fun fighting 
 him like that, but just... just why?
  
  That brings up another thing, the bosses. They are boring! Of all the games I've played, this one 
 features the worst boss fights. They're just so boring. And MJ is suppost to be a little good girl. 
 What's up with her, dressed like she's tough and carrying a shotgun? And couldn't they have gotten 
 Spiderman a better voice? He sounds like a little kid! And I thought he'd be more cooler and tough, 
 but he; s still dorky and cracking horrible jokes like the other games.
  Example: "What is this, Goblins r us?"
  
  SWOS also has good features, too. Nice graphics and 
 story, free roaming, wicked combos, it's fun!
  
  Overall:
  Gameplay:8/10
  Story:9/10
  Graphics:9/10
  Dorky kid voice and attitude:-1000/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Without the movie license holding it back. Web of Shadows does very well with its newly awarded 
 freedom. With bad guys famous throughout the comics and some only people who have read a lot of 
 Spider mans comics would know about. The man who voices spider-man does an excellent job of handing 
 out quirky, sometimes annoying, one-liners. What Gamespot said is entirely true about him, they're 
 so bad you really have to laugh.
  
  The game does an excellent job of giving you very large amounts of freedom. The hustle and bustle 
 on the streets below is never short-handed. In fact, before I realized that I didn't have to stop 
 every single crime spree going about below, I almost quit the first level because I couldn't move 
 a block without haveing to stop 60+ crimes. Not saying this is a bad thing though. Far from it, 
 it helps you realize how hard it can be to not be able to save sombody.
  
  Even though being good can give you a warm fuzzy feeling inside. Being evil defanitely is more 
 fun. Tell me, what would rather do? Shoot pathetic little websplats that stop enemies for a whopping 
 10 seconds? (Even though that usually is ample time to give a little of spidermans world famous 
 soft served fist) Or chuck a car at a weak little gangsters head. Don't even try to fool me with 
 the websplats. 
  
  Now to get to the techy nerdy stuff. This game has very comic book like graphics. Good cut sequences, 
 and best of all seemless air to ground to wall to ground againg then back to wall then back to 
 air fighting. There are so many other combonations too. It sometimes happens so flawlessly that 
 you don't realize your attack set has changed and you find yourself playing some of the wrong combos 
 and getting eaten by a zombie or smashed by one of Kingpin's giant robots.
  
  This is a very good 9.5 game, if it didn't get so repetitive. The first playthrough is really enjoyable. 
 Getting to try all the different optional missions and listening to the dialog is fun and entertaining. 
 The second playthrough to see the different choices is a different matter entirely. Almost none 
 of the different paths' cut sequences change, and all the mini mega missions where you have to 
 complete a certain mini mission 3 to 10 times gets plain boring because you've already done it 
 once.
  
  The targeting system needs to be tweaked to zoom to bigger and more important people and mission 
 objectives, not that pathentic nearly dead symbiote thing slowly walking toward you trying to act 
 as ominous as possible. It can't really back up this creepy walk since your weakest attack takes 
 him out in one hit.
  
  The gameplay is good, the story is well writen, the graphics fullfill the purpose of the game. 
 The only thing left to tell you is my favorite character. I try not to pick favorites in games, 
 sadly enough, I couldn't keep my promise with this game. At one point in the game, you are told 
 that there are groups of uninfected people that are in need of rescuing, and the person you are 
 teamed up with, is by far one of my favorite gaming characters of all time. He dosn't have a name, 
 but he dosn't need one. I'm sure everyone reading this has played a game where you need to go out 
 with another soldier and take out some base and that soldier has been some southern hick who likes 
 explosions. Well that's this S. H. I. E. L. D. guy. 
  
  An exceptional spider man game that any spider man fan needs, 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ronin893
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  The first thing you notice about the game is the look. I won't waste time talking about technical 
 issues or what not. I'll leave that to the people who know what they are talking about. You get 
 this huge city to explore and explore you will. Your outside for probably 99% of the game and you 
 will find that you will just spend a lot of time web swinging for no reason other than to web swing 
 which is a lot of fun. You do however find yourself sometimes swinging from thin air, but you don't 
 notice it unless your looking for it. The characters look pretty good with a few exceptions I thought. 
 Symbiote Spider-man shoulders look a little exaggerated and Venom's spider on his costume make 
 him look like he is wearing fur. I have never seen Mary Jane's chest so big which felt kind of 
 awkward and unnecessary.
  
  The second this you notice almost as fast as the first is the voices. Spider-man needs some acting 
 lessons in the beginning but it does some what improve as the game goes on. Overall they all could 
 have used some lessons.
  
  The best thing about this game was the game play. Which is also where I had my biggest problems. 
 An all new fight system allows you to feel as if you had Spider-mans full abilities. Your able 
 to go from enemy to enemy delivering great combos without even touching the ground. Impressive 
 combos for both costumes to unlock but the red suit clearly has the best combos. You can switch 
 back and forth from both costumes with the L3 button which allows you to switch easily but also 
 causes you to switch at times when you don't want to.
  
  I did not like how enemies would disappear after you defeat them. I love webbing the enemy in previous 
 games like Ultimate Spider-man. Kiss hagging them from the street post as well goodbye. Not so 
 hidden tokens are useless. The are used for extending you health and special meter bar but they 
 are not needed because the game is so easy. I don't think I died once. You can't even kill yourself 
 from falling from the highest building. You won't even lose any health.
  
  If you can overlook these few things and most fans will you will have a game worth playing. Even 
 at a slightly higher price. Any other hero and I would have waited for some kind of deal before 
 buying it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cpspeed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 10:23 am PT
Review:  I have been a big fan of Spider-Man my whole life, and as a result, I have played through several 
 mediocre and terrible games. This one seems to have finally gotten it right. 
  
  One of the things that always frustrated me about the games were the inability to fully utilize 
 Spider-Man's unique skills. The game based on the first move took place mostly indoors, and the 
 one based on the third movie mainly focused on hand-to-hand combat and "bullet time" spider sense. 
 This game added a web-strike attack which was great, and there were different variations of that 
 attack so that you didn't have to do the same move over and over. I also liked that you could use 
 your spider sense to locate enemies or civilians in danger.
  
  Another problem with some of the other Spider-Man games has been the controls. It was sometimes 
 difficult to get the web-slinger to do what you wanted him to do. While it did happen from time 
 to time, I found that to be minimal on this game. It took very little time to get used to the control 
 scheme, as it was very similar to Spider-Man 3, but with a few button changes that seemed to improve 
 the scheme overall.
  
  The graphics were good, but a little on the "cartoon" side, which is fine because this is a comic 
 book character. I don't really care what the graphics look like, as long as the game is fun to 
 play.
  
  A few other things that I liked about the game were the ability to switch between the black and 
 red suits whenever you wanted to, and I liked that each suit had different attacks. The "choose 
 your path" style with the "black" and "red" choices gave me a reason to play through the game a 
 second time. I also found it fun that they added other heroes and villains in the game that you 
 could summon to help you out. Though, I never really found it necessary, it was fun to fight alongside 
 Wolverine, and some of Spidey's usual enemies.
  
  I'm never a fan of running around collecting items that have no real purpose, so I liked that collecting 
 spider tokens helped to level-up your character, and I thought the experience/upgrade function 
 worked well for 2 reasons: it didn't overwhelm you with too many moves all at once, and it allowed 
 you to upgrade based on your particular fighting style. There were some moves that I just didn't 
 use much, so early on, I spent my experience points upgrading the ones that I did use.
  
  The only problem with the game was it's length. If you pass up a lot of the optional missions, 
 the game goes by rather quickly. I did play through it twice to see the outcome if I had made different 
 choices along the way, and it's certainly a game that I can see myself playing through a few more 
 times.
  
  Overall, I feel that this is the best Spider-Man game to date. Fans of the web-head should definitely 
 check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marth2009
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  This spider-man game is truly a sight to behold and one hell of a game to boot.
  
  For starters, its storyline makes sense and the narration during the game is great.
  
  The 
 very things the producers promised are there. The combat is finally linked to the movement. you 
 can kill a dude by closing in and afterwards, you just keep going.
  
  The moral choices give you the power to decide whether spider-man is the same old hero or a bad-ass 
 villain. There's not that many endings, but you feel great knowing you made it happen.
  
  The combat system is truly a godsend. You can change from red to black suit instantly for an enormous 
 variety of combos. The system allows you to fly through the city and kick ass at the same time. 
 Long story short, you will always find new ways to kick enemy ass.
  
  The upgrade system is great. You unlock new combos as you progress and buy them with the exp you 
 got from your ass-whooping skills. When you buy a move, you may unlock another move in the chain. 
 
  
  The cpu intelligence is how it's supposed to be. For symbiotes: angry fast and dumb as hell. As 
 for the others, there just a tiny bit smarter and a hell of a lot slower.
  
  Missions are mostly great, but there are the odd few that frustrate you greatly.
  
  Things 
 you'll love: Almost everything in the game including the bad-ass combat system.
  
  Things you'll hate: The odd mission with stupid objectives.
  
  Yours helpfully,
  marth2009 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spider-venom
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 8:09 am PT
Review:  Just thought at there is not much forum activity going on in this thread I might shed some light 
 incase gamers decide to purchase this game.
  
  Let me just start in saying that if you are a Spider-man fan and read the comics then you will 
 most probably love this game as no other video game has come close to portraying the web-slinger 
 at his best. For others who have not really had a history outside perhaps watching the films might 
 want to hold off and read my review first.
  
  The game is set in it's own canon and does not relate to the films, which is perhaps a bonus as 
 this means there is alot more of a writers sandbox to uncover and use. No direct link is referred 
 to the comic book history but one might suspect it's in the same universe. Venom is obviously behind 
 the assault on New York City and has found away to spread his suit on unsuspecting civilians of 
 New York, which includes Spider-man, from this moment on a progressing story occurs where you have 
 to stop him along with your allies from completely spreading his 'infection'. Which allies you 
 chose is up to you.
  
  As the game starts you take control of spider-man trying to look for Mary Jane beknowist the fact 
 that you have probably skipped ahead a portion of the story. Things don't look good as you flash 
 back 4 days prior to fully uncover why things are as they are. Your first meeting with Venom grants 
 you the black suit straight away. The difference between both suits are minor, with the classic 
 being more acrobatic and the symbiote suit more in your face brutal but it's a nice touch that 
 you can switch on the fly with the tap of a button. this brings me on to the greatest improvement 
 of Spider-man: web of shadows, which is the combat. Prior to this game, combat was not so good 
 with the transition between web swinging and fighting being separate entities. Now it feels like 
 1 big flow with the web swinging and combat more or less occurring in one fluid motion. From swinging 
 from the skies to webbing someone on a skyscraper to fighting on the side of a building to landing 
 down below, the battles feel epic. New moves are unlocked as you progress. You have allies as well 
 who come to help you when you select their aid, which can sometimes prove helpful. Perhaps not 
 so great is the new 'role play' system. Where after each key moment (usually after a boss battle) 
 you pick a path, good or bad. What is supposed to enhance the story and make you feel more in control 
 of the games destiny isn't really such a thrill. Only differences are being the rogue gallery of 
 allies who come to your aid and the ending where a percentage of your choices determines what happens. 
 Other then that its not really interactive and if you chose one path, you'll probably stick to 
 it. Good for re-playability maybe though. The story isn't long but thats not really an issue. What 
 is an issue though is once the game is over you cannot swing around the sandbox city as you please. 
 How much of a loss to you though is variable.
  
  On a technical side, the game has its greatest flaws. The frame rate is very choppy even on a standard 
 television and the games glitchy as hell. A. I is stupid and as a whole package you may feel the 
 developers have rushed to sell this product even though there is no movie for it to tie-in too. 
 Many people did not agree with Spider-man's voice but IMO I think it suits the character well. 
 In essence the comic spider-man is whiney and has mopes a lot in his sorrow (usually not his fault) . 
 The voice actor also portrays his amateur comediasm (if thats a word) . It makes sense for him to 
 sound the way he was since he was a awkward nerd. The voice of the USM game is praised and he's 
 just as whiney with a scrawny voice, makes sense that he is in this one (but slightly deeper) too. 
 It probably isn't helped though that the animations in the cutscenes don't serve the voice actors 
 well at all. No fluidity to it.
  
  Overall if your a fan, buy it. Be satisfied for now.
  
  If a newcomer, rent it and see what you think.
  
  3 Stars :) (thanks for reading) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedHawk4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 11, 2009 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I'll admit, I was never much into Spider-Man. Saw the first movie, but never read any of the comic 
 books or watched the other movies (that is, I hadn't watched the other movies... I did after playing 
 WoS) . Everything changed for me after trying Web of Shadows. It's a soaring, free-roaming, super-fun 
 game to play, and in this review I'm going to break down just why it is:
  
  Gameplay: Essentially, what you might first wonder about WoS is: Does it make me feel like Spider-Man? 
 The answer is yes, it does. From beating up thugs to swinging around New York, you will feel like 
 the web-slinger. For the most part, gameplay is solid. It will freeze occasionally while swinging 
 once you reach the higher speed levels of the game (to load up the rest of the city in front of 
 you) ... I'll talk about the whole speed thing later. Sometimes, while on a mission, the AI will 
 glitch and you won't be able to finish the mission unless you start over. Thankfully, these instances 
 don't occur often.
  
  Controls: The controls of WoS are highly likeable and easy to get used to. Swinging is a breeze: 
 just get a tall building's rooftop to be above you, press and hold the right trigger (R2) , and 
 you'll be swing around the whole city in no time. Holding the L1 button during the swing will allow 
 you to climb the web, thus reaching greater altitudes, and holding X during the swing will increase 
 the speed of the swing. Simply release R2 to release your web and stop swinging. You can also "Web-Zip" 
 by tapping the right trigger (R2) button; doing so will have Spidey shoot out a web to attach to 
 a building, lamppost, car, even an enemy, etc. and yank himself forward. This is a good tool to 
 use when you want to move quickly through the air, and you'll probably use it often.
  
  Combat: The combat in WoS is great, though for the most part, too easy. Still, Spidey's got some 
 cool moves, and I'll go over them here (NOTE: Some moves I describe may need to be purchased as 
 an upgrade) :
  
  Web-Strike - Pressing triangle will initiate a web-strike manuver, in which Spidey will leap into 
 the air (provided he's not airborne already) and zip along his web towards the enemy. Before reacing 
 said enemy, you can press either triangle, square, or circle to initiate a combat move, or press 
 X to abort the web-strike.
  
  General Attack - Pressing square will cause spidey to begin a normal attack, such as a punch. Continually 
 pressing square will continue the attack further, while pressing square in different patterns or 
 holding square can do different moves.
  
  Web-Shot (Red Suit only) - Prssing O while in the Red Suit will have Spidey shoot out balls of 
 web to entangle and subdue his enemies, When unlocked, Spidey can also shoot a web net.
  
  Tendril Attack (Black Suit only) - Pressing O while in the Black Suit will have Spidey extend a 
 web (when later purschased, Symbiote tendrils) to grab enemies and, depending on the enemy's size, 
 either pull the enemy to Spidey or pull Spidey to the enemy.
  
  Car Throw (Black Suit only) - Yep, when using the Black Suit, you can press O near a vehicle to 
 pick it up and throw it either wherever you want or at a targeted enemy. It's quite fun.
  
  Special Moves - Each suit also has it's own special moves, which are preformed by pressing L1 + 
 square/triangle/circle. Every time you do a special move, your "Special Bar" will decrease; when 
 it's empty, no more special moves. Fight well and your special bar will increase again. I should 
 also tell you that when your special bar is full you can call in allies to assist you; when an 
 ally is called, the special bar will slowly deplete and, when empty, the ally will leave. However, 
 fighting well will raise the bar back up even while an ally is depleting it, so really, as long 
 as you keep on fighting, the ally will stick around forever and help.
  
  And now, back to my review of the game's features...
  
  Camera: You might think that with all 
 Spidey does, the camera might have trouble keeping up... well, for the most part in WoS, it doesn't, 
 thanks to some nifty features and proper programming. First of all, the camera will default behind 
 Spidey and, for the most part, stay there. However, you can manually move the camera via the right 
 analog stick, something that you'll find yourself frequently doing. Another option is to press 
 L2 to lock the camera onto an enemy; this will keep the enemy firmly in your sights no matter what 
 you do. Once locked onto an enemy, however, you can move the right analog stick left/right/up/down 
 to change the target enemy selection to another foe. Pressing and holding L2 will initiate Spider-Sense 
 (and later on, when using the Black Suit, Symbiote-Sense) , which highlights allies and enemies.
 
  
  Story: The story of WoS is very simple yet quite fun, and has two main endings (Good and Evil) 
 with an alternate good ending and an alternate evil ending... so really, 4 endings in total, and 
 you'll want to play through the game at least twice to see the good and evil endings. Throughout 
 the story, you'll be given choices to decide on (a. k. a. choose a path) . Depending on your choices, 
 different cutscenes will be activated and you'll end up working for/with different people. I'll 
 tell you the basic outline of the story without spoiling it for you: You'll start off by helping 
 Luke Cage stop a gang war, and eventually you'll discover a Symbiote infestation in New York (caused 
 by Venom) and work with S. H. I. E. L. D to eliminate it (ahem... Black Path may slightly differ, but 
 I won't tell about that because it would be spoiling it) .
  
  Allies: During the game, you'll acquire several allies depending on the path you choose. Choose 
 to be evil, and you'll be aided by Super-Villains when you request them, but choose to be heroic 
 and you'll be aided by Super-Heroes. The list of allies/foes that you can work with/against are 
 as follows:
  
  HEROES
  Luke Cage
  Moon Knight
  Wolverine
  
  VILLAINS
  Black Cat
  Vulture
  Rhino
  Electro
  
  The best ally of the Super-Heroes, in my opinion, 
 would be Wolverine; the best ally of the Super-Villains, again in my opinion, would be Vulture.
 
  
  Upgrade Abilities: Preferming tasks, fighting well, and doing optional missions all reward you 
 with XP (Extra-Points) which allow you to go to the upgrade screen and purchase new combat moves 
 for both the Red and Black Suits. Also, during normal, free-roaming play, you'll find red "Spidey 
 Tokens" littered throughout the city. Gather enough of them to reach different "Levels". Once a 
 new "Level" is reached, Spidey's "Special Bar" and "Health Bar" will be increased, along with Spidey's 
 swing/run speed.
  
  Difficulty: As I said, WoS is not really a difficult game at all. On your first play through career 
 mode you may die a few times, but you'll just be put back at the last save point (which i usually 
 somewhere right before when you died) . Oh, and don't worry about taking damage if you fall while 
 swinging; you'll probably just land like normal, though if you fall from a great height you could 
 get a miniscule amount of damage. If you take on a lot of damage and are near death, just avoid 
 taking a hit for a short amount of time; the health bar will fill back up again.
  
  Overall, fan or not of Spider-Man, I think you'll like Web of Shadows. It's a fast paced, fun game 
 that's great to play through several times. Hope this review helped:
  
  Sincerely, RedHawk4.
  
  NOTE: If you want to play through a Web of Shadows career mode again 
 but don't want to have to upgrade your combat moves all over again, no problem: what you do is 
 click on "continue game" from the game's start-up menu, and wacth the credits scroll through again 
 (don't skip them) . Do this as many times as you need to (just once for me, every time) until you 
 begin a new game by doing it.
  
  NOTE 2 (possible spoilers) : When you first fight Wolverine, he'll ask you trivia questions to make 
 sure that you're really Spider-Man; here are the answers to those questions (don't answer them 
 correctly if you want to be evil) :
  
  What are your parents' names?: Richard and Mary
  Whose killers did we track in Berlin?: Ned Leeds
  Where did you first wear the Black Suit?: Battleworld
 
  Who declined joining the New Avengers?: Daredevil
  What is "Critical Mass"?: A Mutant
  Who served us roast and pie?: Aunt May
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlakkSteel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:24 pm PT
Review:  I'm an old school comic book fan. I've always favored Marvel over DC. I NEVER liked the superhero 
 games based on the movies. I like the superhero games that were made to stand on their own, with 
 its own original story. With those reasons bein' said, that made me gravitate to this game. The 
 graphics on this are more along the lines of Ultimate Alliance, which isn't a bad thing, but not 
 that great either. The only advantage, is that the characters are a little bigger here. The voice 
 acting is no GTA IV, but it's also no Resident Evil 1, either. The open world format is cool. As 
 long as you remember that Spidey's webs are based on nearby buildings & not the clouds, you'll 
 be okay! LOL The controls can become kinda quirky & not too reliable at times. Couple that with 
 a camera that can't always keep up with Spidey, & it's a bad stew during those crucial battles, 
 when you're takin' hits from the blind side. The gameplay is EXTREMELY repetitive!!! No matter 
 what move power-ups you purchase with the experience points, it just seems to be all the same. 
 It's too easy to fall off your missions, & get hung up on the optional missions of "kill X number 
 of symbiotes/save X number of pedestrians", etc. That really gets you nowhere fast, & adds to the 
 already burdening repetition. Juking the camera out becomes majorly annoying. The puzzles are kept 
 simple. The fight with Wolvering tests your Marvel knowledge, while tryin' to NOT get hammered. 
 When you're beatin' an enemy, & their life bar isn't budging, you'd better hurry & figure out why, 
 or else the re-spawning begins! LOL I have yet to complete te story (well above 50%) , but this 
 is kinda draggin' out. If you're no Spiderman fan, then you're not missing a thing. This actually 
 has me anticipating Batman: Arkham Asylum. . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 29, 2009 3:24 pm PT
Review:  Spiderman web of shadows focus on our friendly neighborhood spider, and his brutal fight against 
 himself. Between the good and the bad, which is the black suit. and on top of all of that a deadly 
 symbiote invasion of new york city. 
  Sounds really cool, and it is. But there are some problems. First off, there is a whole new combat 
 system and you will of course be using in thru the entire game. It lets you fight in the ground, 
 air and on walls, which is new. and is also lots of fun. There are lots of great characters from 
 the marvel universe. such as wolverine. Lots of great villans, that if you are a spiderman fan, 
 you will know. The best thing is the story. Because you can actually make choices, which will determine 
 the out come and what will happen next. Which gives it good replay value. The black suit is just 
 plain fun to play as. But, the bad things
  The camera can be annoying and cause problems, especially in boss battles. Fighting in mid air 
 can be fun , but sometimes the controls just dont work with you in mid air. The swinging around 
 was nice at first, but not as good as the other ones. Sometimes you have to be way to close to 
 a building to swing. The game will sometime get boring, cause all you do is fight all the time. 
 they need to add a little cinimatic flair . The red suit in my opinion was not very good, could 
 have been lot better. To beat it all, the voice acting sucks, why not use Toby??? 
  Overall: the game was a so-so game with the bad out weighing the good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: app3095
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  "With Great Power, Comes Great Responsibility". With an symbiote invasion invading New York City 
 and only one hero to save the day, this quote describes the game very accuratley. Spider-Man returns 
 in a new game, that has a new combat system, amazing graphics and a few ups & downs. 
  
  You take control of everyone's favourite web-head, Spider-Man. Throughout the game, you find out 
 something weird has happened to your city, and must take responsibility on what the outcomes are. 
 You have the help of allies or villians from the decisions that happen during the game. You can 
 have: Wolverine, Black Cat, Luke Cage, Vulture, Moon Knight, Rhino & Electro at your assist. But 
 during the game, you could also change from one suit to another which is really cool. To start 
 things off, this review will take look on the graphics. 
  
  Graphics: New York looks fantastic. The scenery changes from day to night, and you can see the 
 environment change from a normal day, into the worst invasion of the world. The models look amazing. 
 Spider-Man looks like he should. When he's the classic red & blue or with symbiote black. The civilians 
 look really nice but sometimes the game overuses the same model over & over again. 
  
  Controls: The controls of the game are really easy. You have the left analog stick to move, X to 
 jump/swing boost, square for the attack/action button, L3 for switching suits, triangle for web 
 strike, R2 for swinging, tapping R2 for the Web-Zip, L1 is for Wall Sprinting/Web Climbing, circle 
 for web-shooting (Red Suit) , or using tentacles for grabbing (Black Suit) but it is also for throwing. 
 You can also have special attacks to aid you during battle by pressing L1 + square, triangle or 
 circle. To block or wall crawl, press the left stick and X. Evading is the R1 button. You can use 
 Spidey's spider-sense by holding L2 but for locking onto an enemy is tapping it. To call an ally 
 or dismiss them, use the down directional button for calling then & the up directional button to 
 dismiss. These mechanics are really easy to pull off combos, and to use for the free-roaming environment. 
 
  
  Gameplay: Web Of Shadows has an impressive combat system to feel like your Spider-Man. The combat 
 can show you doing amazing moves like jumping for one guy to another, using punches & kicks, and 
 even spinning like a tornado which would spin your enemy to the air. To do special moves, the special 
 meter is used in order to use them. Your health bar is located down at the right side. It recovers 
 automatically when you are or not in battle. During the game, there is are 2 things that could 
 happen during in-game sequences. You choose the good or evil path which will determine how the 
 story will go. The other is called "The Tests Of Strength and Agility". You must follow the on-screenbutton 
 prompts to successfully complete the events by pressing the correct button or repeatedly pressing 
 it as quick as possible. The game also has an upgrading system. The upgrading system lets you upgrade 
 the moves that you have to make them powerful or extend their length. But you need the XP. You 
 can gain experience points by doing hit achievements which is a hit meter displaying each combo 
 that you do and you gain experience by making the combo longer from the combos you make. The others 
 are defeating your enemies and completing missions. You can also collect spider tokens which are 
 scattered across the city. When collect enough for each one is required, Spider-Man levels up and 
 increases his health meter, special meter and swing speed.
  
  Spider-Man: Web Of Shadows does have some problems sometimes. There is problems with the frames 
 being torned sometimes. The voice-acting is really horrible. Spider-Man really sounds weird, while 
 Wolverine has his classic anger voice. It may not be a problem to some fans, but that's what everyone 
 is having a problem with. The game can be simply beaten from 10-12 hours and there is somewhat 
 replay value. The final boss is really simple to beat, as the A. I. is at a moderate level. I do 
 consider this game as the best Spider-Man game yet, but in my opinion, Spider-Man 2 takes the crown 
 as Ultimate Spider-Man in 2nd. The game is really fun and it is definitley a rent but to the hardcore 
 Spidey fans is a buy when a reasonable price is out or not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 6:00 pm PT
Review:  This game is a great entry to the next generation consoles and Activision finally gets its head 
 straight and to develop a highly improved sequel from the last spider man game (spider man 3) . 
 This game may be just another spider man game to the normal but to those who adore spidey they 
 will love this game.
  
  Graphics:
  Spider man has some nice shades around and looks really good on a HD screen (and on normal tv's) . 
 The city looks plain and doesn't offer much of a view. It gets really glitchy and tend to give 
 you an eye sour. 
  
  Game play:
  The combat is entertaining all the way from the beginning to the final end. It mostly includes 
 just button mashing and with the right combos you are unstoppable. 
  
  Story:
  The only thing that separates this game from the movies. It has a very nice theme to it (aliens 
 taking over NY) and has some fun memorable marvel characters you will look forward seeing (wolverine 
 and black cat) . Voice acting is good and the game sometimes gets to its funny side.
  
  The main menu of the game does not offer a very welcoming beginning but some of you will have to 
 just give this game a chance.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CAD10
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 22, 2008 7:27 pm PT
Review:  This geme rules it delivers everything a good game needs and the best thing is it is not based 
 on a bad movie so the producers can create their own story now they should make a movie based on 
 the games thats waht im talking about. The following games are the worst games in the world: Spider-Man 
 Spider-Man 2, Spider-Man 3. The following games rule but not as much as 
  SPIDER-MAN: WEB OF SHADOWS : Ultimate Spider-Man,
  Spider-Man: Friend or Foe. I also want to thank 
 the following Sony and PS3.
  awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game awesome game com 
 com co com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com 
 com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com 
 com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com com 
 com 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3574969
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 17, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  ok gots great graphics 3D duh!!!! lol o yeah and its freaking cool the fighting and wall fight 
 em , o yeah the air fight ooooo freaking awesome i was gonnna do pee but nah , aa great game its 
 like a game of 10/10 , one more thing i you are a greatest fan of spidey buy this amazing ,spectacular, mega 
 ,super chilo ,dudes so buy it noww!!!!! o yeah it gots good bosses em it starts with venom ,vulture, black 
 cat, electro, wolverine, symbiote wolverine, symbiote black cat ,vulture then the final boss i cant 
 tell you lol you have to buy this game ooooooooooooooo if you knew who is the final bossss uuuuuuuuuuuuuuuu 
 you will do peee on your panties lol soooooooooo buy it now!!!! only $59.99 buy it really not joking 
 this game will change spiderman's fame yeah, yeah theres gonna be parts that you will have to push 
 buttons so pay attention to everything thats the only thing that im gonna say 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 12:18 am PT
Review:  Swinging and Fighting have never been so fun. The game from the get go has you flying all over 
 the place fighting everything and everyone with you intense web action and acrobatical moves. The 
 games is fast and intense and predictable for a game of this nature which is a good thing. If you 
 go into this game expecting nothing but a silly story and fun gameplay, you will be entertained, 
 but if you were looking for something deeper, this game is not for you. I went into the game not 
 expecting much which made the game more enjoyable because the graphic and story are both a major 
 dissapointment. In this day and age, you think good graphics was a requirement, but his game did 
 not get the memo. It would be nice to see this game on HD with mind blowing visuals, but we are 
 left with PS2 graphics. Though not a big problem, you can only wonder what the experience could 
 of been like if they put more work in this department. Another problem is the story is not develped 
 well or told well either. The gang wars in the beginning of the game seem very confusing and have 
 no relevance to the game, but then Venom starts taking over the city and for some odd reason every 
 villian is pulled in to this Venomous world with Wolverine along for the ride. It is best not to 
 ask question why most of what is happening because they will not get answered. The good vs evil 
 fight betwein the black sut and red and blue suit is quit interesting, but I do not like how they 
 affect the ending. The good ending with Mary Jane is the most satisfying, while the black suit 
 ending leaves you being the king of venom (the species, not the villian) which seems weird and 
 the opposite of what the spiderman series stands for. 
  
  But over exaggerated boss battles like fightning Vulture Venom and his minion in the skies is very 
 fun because you are just smashing buttons and watching spidey perform so beautiful moves. One major 
 annoyance is battles do become repetitive and having to swing across the whole city to your next 
 location is quite boring, pointless and unrewarding. The game overall would seem like a let down, 
 but the game is too fun. The corniest also adds to the fun factor. Just no that the story will 
 not be told in such a way that will touch the heart. If the game was able to add in realistic graphics 
 and a better story, this game would been one of my favorites. This story had so much potential, 
 but falls short. You never understand what Venom is trying to do in the city and you do not understand 
 why any of the villians are their helping you and figthing you at the same time. The story is just 
 awful, but I did not expect it to be good, just I can easily ignore it. If I were to rate this 
 game with the story in mind, I would have to give this game a six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PSgeek
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin, Web of Shadows gives you everything and more.
  The story starts with a scene that the designers try to make look epic, they get right, partially (some 
 framerateissues, but "is gonna be alright" (Bob Marley) This is a nice tutorial type mission and 
 it gives you some hardcore spidey action at the same time. next is a nice cutscene that shows Mary-jane 
 in all her glory being angry and affectionate for Peter (how does she do it?!?!?!?!?!?!) . She boards 
 a S. H. I. E. L. D transport ship (quad engine hovercraft) , when a mysterious figure appears. Spider-man, 
 being so (Great power comes...) heads right on in. The figure looks mysteriously like Black Cat (I'm 
 just guessing, LOL) Spidey get wrapped up by a few Symbiotic tendrils and that ends that.
  We then are taken back four days, Spidey's having trouble with Venom (man, that guy's a pain in 
 the neck, literally) who is trying to crush Spider-man's head (that's a bad thing) . Somehow some 
 of Venom's Symbiote attaches itself to the Webslinger (Ithink we know what happens next) Spidey 
 and Venom jump back, and Spidey says "get ready for a world of hurt!". We now have chance to use 
 one of the black suit's distinguishing features. WE HURL CARS AT VENOM!!!. This is not as fun as 
 it sounds, this is incredibly repetitive and Venom's a wimp. After you damage him enough he starts 
 to limp towards MJ's unconscious body, you have approximatley 30 seconds (hurl cars at him, that's 
 the only way to beat him) after you take out Venom he mysterioulsy disappears. You follow MJ to 
 the hospital where the exact moment you arrive the Rolling 7's and the Park ave.'s have a gang 
 war right in front of the hospital. When along comes Luke Cage...
  Web of Shadows has everything you'd want, Action, breathtaking visuals and a fantasitic camera. 
 The amount of repetitive missions is down to a low but I promise you that the ending is worth it. 
 For my sake try the black suit all the time, it's more fun ( B:) ) (guy with glasses on his head) 
 Please try the black suit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shoulars
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  I like this game because it has options of which storyline you would like to see. You can choose 
 to see Spiderman's good storyline, or choose to see the dark side of Spiderman. I believe that 
 the dark side was more entertaining, but both stories reach the same conclusion. of Spiderman. 
 I also like that I could choose to complete optional task within to the game to earn additional 
 points. I usually would choose to do so in order to pay for additional upgrades to get the best 
 outThe ONLY thing that I really hated was that when I beat the game, I could not go back to free 
 play. The game just kept repeating the ending credits when I tried play again. All the upgrades 
 that I had worked so hard for were gone. I would have had to start a new game in order to play 
 again. Not a bad game at all. It took me about three days to beat it. Even though I enjoyed playing 
 this game, I am glad that I rented it rather than buying it. I do not believe that I would want 
 to start from scratch, just to see a different storyline. I was actually just renting the game 
 to pass the weekend by, but ending up enjoying the game play very much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bertmax
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  Granted, I haven't played very far in the game (just saved the courthouse) , but this game is just 
 what I needed. I don't rent or buy a lot of games, and was kind of stuck in the monotony of playing 
 the few games I have over and over. My brother rented this, brought it over and it has been a blast 
 so far.
  
  The movement takes a little getting used to, mainly because it's so fast. Sometimes I just have 
 to stop and get my bearings, but the learning curve is pretty short. Being able to switch suits 
 on the fly is great, because there are advantages to each, mainly in combat. I'll let you figure 
 those out yourself, I'll just say that you'll use both. Upgrades, for the most part, are definitely 
 worth buying and are also easy to get used to. Web-zipping multiple enemies is extremely fun.
 
  
  The boss fights are pretty challenging and can get a little frustrating while you're figuring out 
 your strategy. I haven't beaten a single boss fight the first time.... or the second time, for that 
 matter. But that didn't stop me from trying again and getting no small amount of satisfaction when 
 I've won.
  
  The style of graphics bothered me a bit at first, but the playability has more than made up for 
 that. Perhaps I was used to the Mark Bagley, more cartoony feel of Ultimate Spider-Man, who knows?
 
  
  In short, if you're only even a so-so fan of Spider-Man, this game is for you. The combat style 
 is definitely not what you're used to and is just downright fun. I will definitely be buying this 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spiderfan001
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 23, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  With the past two Spider-Man games receiving lukewarm receptions the challenge fell on Shaba Games 
 to bring Spider-Man back into the minds of gamers. To do this Shaba poured their efforts into a 
 revamped combat system promising fans that they would be able to fight on the ground, on the wall, 
 in the air or a combination of any of these. They have succeeded.
  
  The combat system is the star of Spider-Man: Web of Shadows. The amount of options it grants you 
 allows you participate in some wild comic book battles. I started a fight with Black Cat where 
 we started out on the roof, continued to beat on one another down the side of a building before 
 she knocked me off and I had to come at her again through the air. The combat system is easy to 
 use for casual gamers but those who take the time to learn its ins and outs are rewarded by being 
 able to pull off some insane combos. However, since the game only has one difficulty level that 
 can be beaten by just button mashing there is not much incentive to master some of the harder combinations.
 
  
  The combat system also lets you choose how you want to fight. If going toe-to-toe with enemies 
 on the ground isn't working for you, you can adopt a hit and run strategy by bouncing from one 
 enemy to another before they get a chance to hit you back. Or, you can fight them on the wall and 
 see how you fare. Better yet, switch to the black suit and toss an ambulance at them. Never has 
 a Spider-Man game offered this much freedom in choosing how to use his powers.
  
  The other main feature of the game is the ability to switch from Spidey's classic red and blue's 
 to the black costume on the fly. The red suit favours acrobatics and agility while the black suit 
 is better suited for just straight up brawling. As you complete missions you will gain points that 
 will go towards levelling up your skills for either suit. Both the red and black suits have something 
 to offer and its worth going back to replay the game just to try out the different moves available 
 for each suit. The only problem is that switching suits has been mapped to the L3 button. That 
 means that if you are like me and push down on the control stick while moving your character you 
 are going to be switching suits by accident quite often. This gets annoying fast especially when 
 in the middle of a fight.
  
  As always, swinging through New York City stopping crime is one of the best parts of the game and 
 there is no shortage of crime this time around. Things start off relatively normal at the start 
 but as the game continues New York City slowly gets invaded by symbiotes and soon random street 
 crime is replaced by saving civilians from symbiotes roaming the streets and/or helping S. H. I. E. L. D. 
 evacuate them. This comes as a nice change from what we have seen in other Spider-Man games.
  
  The game's story will remind comic savvy of one of those bad Spider-Man crossovers from the 
 90's. But it's tolerable because it gives us an excuse to swing through a creepy symbiote infested 
 to New York City, to see Mary Jane brandishing a shot gun and to see symbiote versions of Spidey's 
 allies and enemies. Adding spice to the story is the ability of the player to decide its outcome. 
 During some cinematics players will be offered the choice to decide what actions Spider-Man should 
 take in a given situation; either the noble "red suit" path or the dark "black suit" path. The 
 choices you make will effect which characters will come to your aid should you decide to call on 
 them during a battle; superheroes if you take the high road, villains for the low. It's a nice 
 addition to the game and the four possible endings give the player incentive for a second play 
 through.
  
  Of course, it would not be a Spider-Man game without a crappy camera and Web of Shadows is no exception. 
 The camera usually follows the action pretty well but because it always stays focused on one of 
 your enemies retreating or trying to attack an enemy behind you will prove to be difficult. When 
 crawling the wall the camera sometimes goes crazy resulting in the game thinking that down is up 
 and up is down. But where the camera is at its worst is when fighting in an enclosed space; the 
 camera will often get stuck behind a wall.
  
  Your enemies are plagued by some bad A. I. For instance, during a chase sequence with the Black 
 Cat she started randomly doing back flips into a wall while I just stood there and waited for her 
 to stop and start running away again. These bizarre moments happen far too often. It feels like 
 the developers needed a bit more time to polish the game.
  
  The annoying sequences from Spider-Man 3 where you have to push the buttons that appear on screen 
 in order for Spider-Man to perform a certain action to finish off a boss are back again. Failure 
 to complete these sequences will result in Spider-Man's grisly yet oddly hilarious demise and the 
 player having to start the sequence all over again. I'm not sure who decided that these tedious 
 sequences were any fun, but hopefully after this game we will have seen the last of them.
  
  The graphics for the game are a mixed bag. It's nice to be playing with a classic looking Spider-Man 
 after so many movie based games. The black suit looks appropriately bad-ass and menacing. The best 
 part about the graphics is the way in which Spider-Man moves. When Spider-Man lets go of a web 
 line and lands on top of a building  instead of just landing on his feet  he will land in a crouching 
 Spider-Man-like pose. It is this attention to detail that makes Spider-Man fans like me all warm 
 and fuzzy inside.
  
  Most of the other characters look fine, with the most notable exception being Electro. It's hard 
 to make his costume look more ridiculous than it already does in the comics but somehow the game 
 developers found a way to do it. The city looks good and it's cool to see how it transforms as 
 the symbiotes begin to invade. Sadly the graphics are hampered by a horrible frame rate that makes 
 all the animations look choppy.
  
  The sound for the game is solid. Depending on which suit you use the public will either cheer for 
 you or run away screaming for help. This is a nice touch and really makes the city feel "alive." 
 The sound effects and music are both adequate.
  
  The voice acting for the game is okay. The two highlights are Tricia Helfer as the Black Cat and 
 Steve Blum as Wolverine. As usual they both give great performances as their respective characters. 
 The only voice that really feels off is Spider-Man's; which is sometimes too whiny and high pitched 
 when the character is yelling. Moon Knight's voice is also odd. I was expecting a superhero that 
 rips the faces off his enemies to sound a little grittier.
  
  Despite its short comings Spider-Man Web of Shadows is the best Spider-Man game yet. The variety 
 of the combat system, the different choices the player can make and the amount of fan service in 
 the game will keep Spidey fans coming back. Casual fans will probably find one play through enough, 
 and should consider a rental. After all, any Spider-Man game that lets you choose between Mary 
 Jane and the Black Cat has to be worth playing right?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: numbnuts3
Rating: 2.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 5:35 am PT
Review:  When it comes to Spider-man, I'm not really a game fan. Why? Because I have only played very few 
 games with Spider-man in it. For instance, I refuse to play any game that is made after a movie 
 because they are ALWAYS bad. Marvel Ultimate Alliance, a GREAT game. Even though Spider-man wasn't 
 one of my favorite characters to play with. He was still fun none the less. Ultimate Spider-man, 
 I LOVED it! I guess that is why I am SO disappointed about Web of Shadows. I am so tired of these 
 PS3 games costing so much and the gameplay is so f**king faulty. The camera in WoS made the game 
 difficult to web sling, target an enemy or anything else you wanted Spidey to do. I can't tell 
 you how the storyline was. I didn't play it long enough to get into it. This game remind me of 
 the bootleg DVDs that are being sold in the subways in NYC. Bad picture, bad sound, and illegal!!! 
 Spider-man Web of Shadows should be illegal also. 
  
  Don't even waste your time with this game buy Ultimate Spiderman for the PS2 and have a better 
 experience at a cheaper price. And with the way this economy is now, you will thank me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pelm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game I was hesitant about it because of how so many spider man games 
 were confined and tied to the spider-man movies before. But after awhile of reading its review 
 i came to realize that It was better than I had originally thought so I went out and bought it, 
 and After playing it a bit i noticed how well Treyarch pulled it off. They have FINALLY made a 
 spider-man game that IS very good, because its not from a move tie in and because of that Treyarch 
 had room and freedom to put in new and very unique innovations never seen before in the previous 
 spider-man games.
  
  Doing this made this game stand out breathing new life into spider-man reviving him in video games 
 starting the video game spider-man franchise over a new. This has given Treyarch a chance to make 
 an impact in the video game industry they have finally gotten it right but now they need to continue 
 this in the future and if they do they will surely sever the tie of video game movie tie ins once 
 and for all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I would say this is the best Spiderman Game ever. Storylines created outside of comics and movies. 
 Fantastic spidey makeover, especially when spidey is attacking with Web strike and combo moves 
 on robots, vulture and wolverine.
  Great surrounding of buildings and sky for spidey to jump about.
  
  I especially like the free 
 roaming part of spidey in the game, exploring of ennviroment and jumping from building to building, 
 spidey crawling on the walls, bouncing of the walls, zipping from places to places.
  
  Great improvement of this game. I hope the producer will create another spidey game with better 
 manovevours of spidey.
  
  Nice black suit with total power destructions, especially when fighting wolverine and bosses.
 
  
  
  The only negative points about this game is camera getting unstuck at times during game play.
 
  
  Hope the next game will improve on this.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: trippyskullz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 11:25 pm PT
Review:  im going to make this shot and sweet. at first web of shadows doesnt impress you with the city 
 detail and it will leave you wondering, well great... another manhattan hero game.
  
  after you get past that you realize there is excellent draw distance in this game and the combat 
 is unique and flashy and speedy. the fact that you can swap suits on the fly and upgrade your moves 
 and fight alongside enemies and allies is a plus also.
  
  everything said there isnt much i have to complain about at all wit this game. i think its great, despite 
 some framerate slowdown sometimes. if you like venom or spiderman or wolverine or high flying action.. it's 
 a must.
  
  variety and perogression and the feeling of absolute superpowers is maintained as soon as you get 
 the hang of the web strike. this game was interesting and fun. the fact it did not tie in to any 
 lineage of late movies just helps it out more. it has very low, if any, replay value but i feel 
 the single player exprience itself is worth having for anyone who wishes there wasnt only one game 
 that got it right so far. heres hoping for arkham asylum to be next. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nthang989
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2008 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I've played the very first spiderman for a little bit and so I have nothing to compare this game 
 to. All in all, this game grows on you once you started playing. It started out slow, but then 
 you starting to do crazy combos and have fun. My favorite part of the game would be the in the 
 air fight scenes against vulture and the symbiotic vulture. Since I'm afraid of heights, playing 
 on the sixty in screen actually freak me out a little of how high I was... ridiculous I know. There 
 are several places where I see graphics problem and camera angle problem. I find it hard to adjust 
 the camera angle sometime and sometime you get stuck in one angle that makes things very hard. 
 I don't know how this game actually play on a small screen, but I get dizzy from time to time because 
 of the changing camera. I would rent this game to be played, because I don't know if it's worth 
 it to keep the game except to find out how things end based on the path that you take. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ace69GC
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 5, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I had a lot of fun with WEB OF SHADOWS and it was nice to see the spider-man franchise getting 
 back on track.
  The games story was pretty good, it kept me entertained but never really got me 100 percent involved 
 or even interested. The fights were alot of fun and the upgrading of combos gives a fun twist, 
 however it still felt too much like a button smasher. I would find myself using many of the same 
 moves over and over again. The combat has a good feel to it, you can easily transition from fighting 
 on the ground, to a wall or even a roof top. The only issue i had when fighting was the camera 
 which never stayed centered. This was the same when trying to control spidy as you web sling through 
 the city. All and all the game was entertaining and I would play it again, but i'm not sure its 
 one for the collection unless your a fan boy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: akechi419
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 2, 2008 8:14 pm PT
Review:  but this game is so good it surpassed my expectations and made my trade in of dead space worth 
 while. I felt like i was watching a movie based on the combat and presentation of this game. This 
 game is damn near perfect however there are a few bugs which annoyed me i had to restart because 
 a cinematic didnt kick in during the prison stage. and it took me 23hrs to beat which is crazy 
 but i didnt notice because it was that damn fun. It is worth buying especially for die hard spiderman 
 fans. The only other thing is in the beginning spiderman didnt sound right with his voice actor 
 but after the 1st 15 min he was spidey all the way. The variety of villans was nice too and also 
 they managed to do some funny dialogue as well being that spidey is 1 of the joking super heroes 
 in the marvel universe. Just so you dont miss out visit people often to reveal even more funny 
 dialogue. I cant say much of any games nowadays is worth buying, but i can say with great confidence 
 this is a keeper. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teknboi912
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Yeah thats pretty much it, this is one of the best, if not the best game I have ever played. When 
 i first started playing it I couldnt believe the graphics, and the awesome fighting moves spidey 
 had, I opened up with like a 15 hit combo on some white venom looking dude. I was like YES SIRRRR! 
 That was right off the bat, so i knew i was in for a treat. Now having played the Amazing Allies 
 Addition, i wasnt expecting much, but i was wrong. This game was GREAT. Swinging threw the city 
 was like nothing i have seen before in a game. It was so beautiful, and spidey was so graceful 
 just glidding threw the city, practically flying, all the litte animations of him twisting and 
 kicking was amazing. And all the upgrades were crazy, with both suits, web shooting, web striking, 
 shooting at dudes with the web then flying in for a crazy blow, was great, and kept getting better 
 and better, and the special attacks, made it even more sweet. Even fighting on the walls, the walls, 
 are you kidding me, powering up wall fighting, yea, thats whats up. This game is by far one of 
 the best i have played in quite some time, i cant see any flaws in this game, it was damn near 
 perfect, and i only beat it once with regular spidey, now im gona go back and beat it as the black 
 suit spidey, yes sir, i cant wait. I had to choose this or LBP, im glad i picked this, best spider-man 
 game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavenlysword77
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 1, 2008 12:11 pm PT
Review:  Spider man web of shadows has taken the spider man series and taken it to a whole new level on 
 ps3, the graphics are so nice. The game is also pretty long lasting. The game last me about 17 
 hours. I t wasn't too hard either. I regret getting it on psp that's for sure, but sure are happy 
 that I got it on ps3. maybe if their was a better two player spider man I would have bought it 
 but for now i'll stick with this one. GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD 
 GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD GOOD  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Insideous_rex
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:39 pm PT
Review:  In short, the game is pure fun. After you go through the lengthy tutorial missions and you get 
 a feel for the combat system, the game play is a blast. The web slinging is smooth and responsive, 
 as is the climbing, and you can transition from scaling walls to swinging quickly. And it's an 
 open world, so you can choose to do the missions, or you can just swing around exploring and looking 
 for trouble
  
  The combat is the best part of this game. You fight while scaling the surface of a building, you 
 can stand toe to toe with enemies on the ground, or you can chain endless amounts of combos while 
 in the air. It all works and once you get a hang of the controls, it's addictive. You can also 
 switch from the black costume (symbiote) to the regular costume at will, and you'll have a different 
 set of attacks depending on which costume you're using. You can also level up either costume as 
 you go on in the game. Moves with the black costume tend to do more damage, while Spidey's regular 
 costume is quicker. Aerial moves can become disorienting at times, especially when you're fighting 
 enemies on the sides of buildings, but like I said, it all works in the end.
  
  The story isn't bad either, as long as you don't play this game as a marvel fanboy and you can 
 let some minor character inconsistencies slide. As you make allies, you can call upon them for 
 back up at certain times. My only complaint so far is that the voice for Spidey is terrible; when 
 he's in distress, he sounds like a whiny b**ch.
  
  You also get different moral choices as you go, and whichever path you take affects the outcome 
 of the game and the ending you get. You can choose the good path, or you can choose to let the 
 Black costume get the better of you. An example would be where Felicia (Black Cat) basically propositions 
 you after you fight her; be loyal to MJ, or scratch the itch? 
  
  This is the best Spidey game in years; it may even be the best of all time. And putting the character 
 aside, even if you aren't a fan, this is a solid action game. A little repetitive? Maybe, but most 
 games are repetitive to some degree and that's not a bad thing if the game play is enjoyable. And 
 in this case, it is.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kplord
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 30, 2008 1:30 am PT
Review:  The game does live up to the hype surrounding it. This is everything Spiderman 3 should have been 
 and much more. This feels more like the comic book and I'm glad that Activision and Treyarch have 
 buckled down and really work some magic. They have returned the comfortable game mechanics that 
 Spiderman 2 had, they have massivle improved the combat system, the graphics are amazing and the 
 story can't be any better than it is. 
  
  I think my only real issue with this game is probably the voice acting. Sometimes it's find and 
 other times it can be annoying. The only person so far that does his job superbly is Steven Blum 
 as Wolverine and he's obviously the best to do his voice seeing as he's been Wolverine since X-Men 
 Legends. (as far as I know)
  
  I must say, they have won me over for the future of MARVEL games. That'll do, Activision and Treyarch, 
 that'll do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 5:08 pm PT
Review:  SP: WOS Was a really good game. The story mode was a tad short, and the camera was a bit funky, 
 but it was awesome. The designers really gave it a creepy ' I Am Legnd ' type of feeling. The Good
 
  --------
  * Fun Gameplay
  * Switching between suits in the blink in an eye is amazing
  * Being able to choose which path you like is cool
  * Good story
  * Suprisingly funny jokes
 
  
  Bad
  ---
  * Some enemies are TOO tough
  * Camera can be annoying
  
  A good game. Buy it. I made the mistake of renting it. Truly though. Jokes are funny. And don't 
 read anymore, I'm just typing to fill the 800 character minimum
  ...........................
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mejsimon
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 26, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  There appears to be a large range of reviews out there and I think that is simply a result of the 
 multiple paths working to various degrees, along with a diverse set of expectations for this game 
 that largely go unfulfilled. 
  
  I'll start with my "rose-colored glasses" wishes for this game. The idea of being able to play 
 as Moon Knight, Luke Cage, Black Cat, Black Widow, and some of the other under-utilized characters 
 in the Marvel Universe was the main reason I was willing to pony-up for yet another Spider-Man 
 game. Friend or Foe, for all its failings, at least let you play as the other characters. I hoped 
 this was going to be an amalgam of the earlier SM games (SM2 and Ultimate SM) with the addition 
 of a better cast of usable characters. Unfortunately, The additional characters, though cool in 
 concept, are nothing but window dressing. 
  
  Game play is a mixed blessing in that there is an ease of use that my nine year-old can appreciate, 
 as well as the much touted aerial combat aspects (AWESOME!) . Countering those positives is a complete 
 lack of feeling in control and the inability to utilize the skills of your allies (or even being 
 able to call the one you want) . 
  
  The primary issue is "Glitch Glitch Glitch". The screen will routinely freeze up, characters get 
 stuck in the walls, the buttons will not respond to your commands, and depending on the options 
 you choose, there are points where you can't continue at all (Wolverine at the hospital) . The biggest 
 piece of advise I can offer is to save often using multiple slots if/when you are able to save 
 at all. (As I write this, my son is in the other room screaming "why does this game keep locking 
 up")
  
  There are many pros and cons that have been widely addressed so I am not going to offer my thoughts 
 on regurgitated things like the better swing mechanics or the EXTREMELY repetitive nature of task 
 completion. 
  
  Bottom line: There is a lot to like about this game, but definitely approach with a "your mileage 
 may vary" open-mindedness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kakashi202
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  This game is so freakin' awesome. Swinging around the city feels more smooth, the gameplay is amazing 
 and there are soooo many different moves. The civilians even react to how you choose to play the 
 game like if you play while using the red suit most of the time, the civillians will cheer you 
 on but if you've been using the black suit more they'll start to hate you and star being afraid 
 of you and run away from you. there are also lots of crimes to stop which is really cool 'cause 
 in spider-man 3 it takes a few minutes to fight another crime which was really boring. The story 
 is really good, even just the intro to the game got me hooked like I couldn't stop wondering how 
 it got to that point. The voice of Peter Parker was pretty good, you can tell that this guy is 
 a nerd. I was disappointed that there was any free roaming after the game had finished like spider-man 
 2 and 3. Overall this is the best spider-man game ever, the price is kinda high but I really didn't 
 mind that when I started playing it so what are you waiting for... go buy it NOW! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 3:41 am PT
Review:  A crazily new combat system that makes fighting your enemies both exhilirating and chaotically 
 satisfying. With the new "Web-Strike" moves, you can take on badguys on the fly, on the move, and 
 on the go.
  
  Having two suits at the same time keeps the combos from becoming tedious. From the steadfast fly-high 
 attacks of the classic Red Suit, to the destructive bone crushers of the Black Symbiote, upgrading 
 from a wide-variety of combinations and skill trees makes you go the extra mile in levelling.
 
  
  A completely new original storyline. With the game not having any connections to the past movies, 
 Web of Shadows offers a plot that pulls a lot of twists and turns. And with the ability to literally 
 change the outcome through "Red and Black" decisions, the game is worth going back a couple of 
 more times.
  
  Funny classic Spidey dialogues and a superb cast of voice actors. The refreshing new source materials 
 throws away the boring feel of past installments.
  
  The Cons:
  
  The same repetitive gameplay is still there. Although there's plenty of customization and alternate 
 endings to go around, you still can't help the fact that the necessary missions to progress the 
 story 
::::::

::::::
UserName: QAZScOpio
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  I really loved and enjoyed this game. The best combat system and I admit Spiderman's jokes are 
 pretty funny in this one.
  The down side is it might occasionally freeze but the game is so good it doesn't stop me from coming 
 back to it.
  Boss fights are intense and it really is fun jumping from one enemy to another and the moves are 
 very in depth and cool. The black suit is a real powerhouse while the red suit is flashy and speedy. 
 So the bottom line here is that if you like Spiderman just get it don't listen to critics I don't 
 blame some of them for giving bad reviews but remeber these guys get paid to find the flaws in 
 anything and if you look for something you will find it. There hasn't been one game I loved that 
 hasn't had at least a few bad reviews. This Spiderman game is all its cracked up to be and it will 
 not disapoint! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drew0313
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2008 12:46 am PT
Review:  The Pros:
  
  A crazily new combat system that makes fighting your enemies both exhilirating and chaotically 
 satisfying. With the new "Web-Strike" moves, you can take on badguys on the fly, on the move, and 
 on the go.
  
  Having two suits at the same time keeps the combos from becoming tedious. From the steadfast fly-high 
 attacks of the classic Red Suit, to the destructive bone crushers of the Black Symbiote, upgrading 
 from a wide-variety of combinations and skill trees makes you go the extra mile in levelling.
 
  
  A completely new original storyline. With the game not having any connections to the past movies, 
 Web of Shadows offers a plot that pulls a lot of twists and turns. And with the ability to literally 
 change the outcome through "Red and Black" decisions, the game is worth going back a couple of 
 more times.
  
  Funny classic Spidey dialogues and a superb cast of voice actors. The refreshing new source materials 
 throws away the boring feel of past installments.
  
  The Cons:
  
  The same repetitive gameplay is still there. Although there's plenty of customization and alternate 
 endings to go around, you still can't help the fact that the necessary missions to progress the 
 story can often get you saying "WHAT?! AGAIN?!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshBagwell
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 22, 2008 11:33 am PT
Review:  Picked up my copy of the game today. I must say the did a number of the combat and webslinging. 
 Man did they do it right. You can now fight on the side of buildings. climb up your webbing. have 
 a webshield, pick up cars and hurl them at bad guys, pull yourself in air towards enemies and do 
 combos. 
  
  Most of all switch from red to black suit on the fly.
  
  Spolier!!!!! An awsome one
  Once you get a villian and hero to trust you when you meter gets 
 to a cerain point you can summon one of them out to help you. 
  
  My complaints are only a few. Sometimes spider-man doesnt web-zip when you press the button. This 
 may be due to the fact that in Spider-Man 3 game you can web line the ground. This time you need 
 to be near something to webzip. My second one is spider-man's wall crawling. When you jump at a 
 building he will manually wither stick to the wall or slide down it. You can hit the grab button 
 to make him hold on to do a jump off. Main thing is you have to hold L1 or LB to climb walls with 
 ease. So most of the time your hands on that button, but its cool when you get near a wall he will 
 use his webbing to pull himself to the wall. My last complaint is The left analog stick inwards 
 changes your suits so you have to be careful when moving.
  
  
  Other than that i believe the got the feel for spider-man down 97%. Granted somethings are missing 
 from the old games like web rodeo and hanging people from lamp-post but this game has got the right 
 idea.
  
  I would say this is a game for the spider-man fan. 
  
  Once you get the feel for the controls down you'll love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wolfomega023
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 21, 2008 4:58 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazingly great Spidey game ever. The story is incredible, the fighting is so 
 detailed, the character development has you believing that you are Spider Man, and anyone, even 
 if they hate Spider Man, will have a very deep liking for this game. The graphics are some of the 
 best that I have ever seen in my gaming life and the gameplay, story, and character development 
 is just so crazy and beautiful, that I actually started cracking jokes like Spider Man. The game 
 is just so cool. This is the craziest and best Spider Man game ever and will go probably go down 
 as THE GREATEST SPIDER MAN GAME IN HISTORY so far. You will definetly enjoy the black suit, chucking 
 cars at things and what not, looking straight up like a villian.
  Being Spider Man is just an amazing experience in this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
