-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Star Wars: The Force Unleashed
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/starwars2007/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Moving, intense story that will excite fans and nonfans alike.
 Beautiful art design dripping with flair.
 Powerful physics engine lets you execute all sorts of awesome-looking moves.
 You can punt a Jawa.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Frustrating, imprecise targeting.
 Several gameplay sequences are simply awful.
 Weird glitches and performance issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 15, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.2, 35 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 2,637 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: LucasArts
Genre: Action
Date: Sep 16, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Force Unleashed's action can be incredible, though it too often strays from what it does best. 
 

  There are a number of thrilling moments lurking in Star Wars: The Force Unleashed -- enough of them 
 that you'll likely be disappointed that it drifts so often from the things it excels at. Amazing 
 displays of power and destruction are interspersed with inept, poorly conceived gameplay sequences, 
 making for an inconsistent journey that, fortunately, gets more right than it does wrong. It certainly 
 gives a fantastic first impression, starting with a tutorial level that serves as a great introduction 
 to its complex protagonist. Yet while the initial levels impress, the later ones stumble a bit. 
 Force Unleashed is a very good game that could have been great, had it not taken so many unnecessary 
 detours.  

           This is the best Star Wars story in years.      

  A big chord and brass fanfare signal the opening of Force Unleashed -- the same intro that sparks 
 excitement in millions of fans the world over every time they hear it. If you're interested in 
 this game because you're looking for familiar science-fiction pageantry and a classic good-versus-evil 
 tale, you'll find it delivers both. In fact, The Force Unleashed represents a real step forward 
 in storytelling for the famed franchise, delivering a story both more intimate and more powerful 
 than the entirety of the second film trilogy. Sure, it offers its share of melodrama, but it's 
 tempered by emotive voice acting and expressive character models, and together they provide the 
 emotional heft long missing from the movies. The drama is further enriched by a vivid art design 
 that breathes life into the franchise's long-sterile visual exterior.  

  Leading the narrative charge is Galen Marek, aka Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice. The 
 Clone Wars have ended, and Vader orders you to hunt and destroy the last of the remaining Jedi. 
 The story, as brief as it is (the game ends at around the eight-hour mark) , contains multiple twists, 
 features some friendly and not-so-friendly faces, and is both explosive and remarkably intimate. 
 You'll interact with Vader, of course, but Starkiller spends most of his time with an android called 
 PROXY and his female pilot, Juno Eclipse. Sharing the details of the trio's adventures would spoil 
 too much, so suffice to say, you'll grow remarkably fond of Starkiller and his companions, and 
 their moral conflicts carry a lot of weight.  

  If you're interested in The Force Unleashed for more than its story, you'll find that it's a mixture 
 of pure fun and pure frustration. The fun wins out, mainly because when it runs on all cylinders, 
 you truly feel like a powerful Dark Jedi, using a variety of force powers and lightsaber slashes 
 to rain death upon rebel and imperial foes alike. You can thank the game's robust physics engine 
 for those thrills. You can grab any number of objects and characters using your force grip power, 
 and when combined with other skills like force lightning and force push, you can fling stormtroopers 
 into Wookiees, crush Felucian tribal leaders under boulders, and smash AT-STs with scattered barrels. 
 In open environments, these mechanics deliver -- big time. Grabbing a Rodian from a distance, electrocuting 
 it, and flinging it into a crowd of shock troopers; hearing your lightsaber hum and whir after 
 you whip it toward an innocent Wookiee; or just drop-kicking a whining Jawa: These moments may 
 very well cause you to yell with glee. This is a game that will make you grab your friends to show 
 off your potent skills.  

           When the Force Unleashed rocks, it really rocks. Too bad it doesn't always stick to its 
 strengths.      

  Unfortunately, developer LucasArts often fails to string these amazing moments together long enough 
 to keep the momentum going. The impressive physics work quite well in huge, open areas like a TIE 
 Fighter facility. The action gets problematic at almost any other time, however, and the hyperactive 
 physics become almost as much of a liability as an asset. This becomes more apparent as Force Unleashed's 
 targeting foibles come more clearly into focus. The targeting is loose, which makes it incredibly 
 easy to grab something other than what you intended, and even easier to throw it at something other 
 than into its actual mark. In the most claustrophobic areas, this might mean flinging an exploding 
 barrel into yourself, throwing it into nothing at all, or targeting a completely immovable item -- which 
 then begs the question why the game let you target it with force grip in the first place. And as 
 is the case with many third-person action game cameras, getting in a smaller space means claustrophobic 
 camera angles that cause you to lose perspective of the bigger picture. This is more of a problem 
 here than in most games, though, because Force Unleashed chooses a target not based on the direction 
 the player is facing via the camera, but which direction Starkiller is facing. That's fine in large 
 environments, when there is more camera maneuverability. Otherwise, it becomes a frustrating paradox 
 of ideas: In confined areas, Force Unleashed requires greater player precision, but makes it more 
 difficult to be precise.  

  Despite these moments of frustration, you'll often find that Force Unleashed is a pleasant challenge, 
 particularly during the best of its boss encounters. The boss battles on your first visits to Felucia 
 and Raxus Prime are the best of the bunch, because they're fun and challenging without being frustrating. 
 These multipart battles are implemented well, letting you restart from that section of the encounter 
 should you die, rather than forcing you to restart at the very beginning. In all of them, you'll 
 need to be constantly active, use a mix of different skills, and pay close attention to patterns. 
 Most of these encounters feature a cinematic camera that may zoom in and out during the action, 
 which makes some of them even more exciting. In others, the camera angles more annoying, since 
 it restricts the viewing area, thereby exacerbating the targeting and physics issues. A battle 
 featuring a bull rancor could have been epic, but it's too easy to get stuck between the rancor's 
 legs, or inside the large skeletons scattered about. The battle is also bugged; in both the Xbox 
 360 and PS3 versions, the rancor's health bar disappeared, rendering the beast impossible to kill 
 and requiring a restart. In a later boss fight, the camera pulls back and magically appearing invisible 
 walls keep you confined to a limited area, which is odd, given that Force Unleashed avoids invisible 
 walls for the majority of its campaign.     

   

  Other attempts at variety arrive with mixed results. Boss encounters and battles against larger 
 enemies, such as rancors and AT-STs, initiate God of War-style quick-time events, and while the 
 initial button prompts can sometimes take you by surprise, most of these sequences are larger than 
 life, featuring all of the acrobatics and pain-inducing attacks you'd expect from a Dark Jedi. 
 You'll also find a few light but sensible puzzles that require you to pull platforms upward or 
 bend metal slabs downward. Other sequences are simply terrible. The most egregious of these involves 
 pulling a destroyer from out of the sky while simultaneously taking on a group of TIE fighters 
 firing at you from their fancy figure-eight pattern. This could have been a game-defining set piece, 
 but due to a broken feedback system -- which purports to show you how to maneuver the analog sticks 
 but does nothing of the sort -- it's reduced to a malodorous misstep best forgotten. In another misbegotten 
 sequence, you must fight the sensitive targeting system to get rotating rings to stay in place, 
 then fight the camera while you ride an elevator and dash across a walkway -- while under the pressure 
 of a time limit. And you have to do it twice. That bit, along with another one that requires you 
 to float upward on blue lasers, brings what should have been Force Unleashed's most exhilarating 
 level to a grinding halt, and the gameplay never fully recovers.  

           The loose targeting means you won't always be grabbing what you want to grab.      

 
  As you progress from level to level, you earn (and find) upgrade crystals, and in turn you learn 
 new combos and can upgrade your force powers to make them more effective. It's a nice touch, because 
 it gives you the impression that Starkiller indeed grows more powerful as the game hurdles forward. 
 It also provides some light character customization, but there are only three development trees, 
 so by the time you reach Force Unleashed's conclusion, you may very well have maxed out most of 
 your abilities. As your move set deepens, you'll encounter increasingly mighty foes, many of which 
 are immune to one force power or another. This approach is a double-edged sword, requiring you 
 to abandon your favorite combinations in favor of other, potentially less enjoyable moves.  

  Force Unleashed's art direction sparkles and glows, injecting brooding, rich color into every 
 environment -- even corridors and control rooms. The junkyards of Raxus Prime are most notable in 
 this regard, but other locales, both familiar and new, are beautifully lit and feature lightly 
 stylized textures and other subtle touches. It's Star Wars, all right, but like the story, the 
 art direction surpasses franchise standards. The graphics engine renders this artistic vision (along 
 with the game's overactive physics) well enough, but it often struggles to keep up. Visual bugs, 
 momentary pauses, and frame rate drops are relatively common, and somewhat more prevalent in the 
 PlayStation 3 version. We encountered instances of blinking textures, incomplete geometry, and 
 on the PS3, multiple occasions when enemy character models would immediately disappear upon defeat. 
 It's certainly beautiful to look at, but throw in weirdly long load times just to pull up menus 
 and jarring cutscene transitions, and you start to see the corners that were cut.  

           The art design is rich and beautiful.      

  If you know your Star Wars, you probably 
 already have an idea of what Force Unleashed sounds like -- and you'd be right on the money. The 
 sound design is of generally high quality, filling your speakers with the swooshes of sabers and 
 the strains of John Williams' famous musical score (along with some new and appropriate compositions) . 
 So it sounds expectedly great, but like with the visuals, you may come across some bugs. While 
 we played the PS3 version, the voice track would occasionally fade away, making it essentially 
 impossible to hear dialogue over the music. In the Xbox 360 version, the voice track became desynched 
 from character lip movements several times. It's too bad, because the game's audio is almost as 
 well conceived as its art.  

  Once you've completed the game and are the all-powerful Dark Jedi you've always wanted to be, it's 
 remarkably fulfilling to return to Force Unleashed's earlier, better levels to try out the powers 
 and combos you didn't possess on your first play-through of them. Or perhaps you want to experience 
 the second of the game's two endings (a reasonable goal, since one of them is bound to get fans 
 talking) while wearing one of the unlockable costumes. But most players will find that aside from 
 a return to the better areas, once is enough. When the game caters to its strengths, it soars; 
 when it deviates, it flounders. Regardless, it's still a more than worthy entry in a long line 
 of licensed Star Wars games, and a good action game in its own right.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (235 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:01 am PT
Review:  In its very good moments this is everything you could want from a Star Wars game. Weaving elegantly 
 between enemies, lightsaber flashing though dizzying arcs-a slash across a Stormtrooper's chest 
 an impaling thurst into a Rodian... The sense of power is really brilliant. You enter a room and 
 you are sure that you are going to kill everyone that is in your way. No wonder the dark side is 
 so secutive. Once you've toasted Jawas with lightning or used the Force to push opponents on walls 
 it's hard not to get a taste from it.
  
  Playing as Vader's secret apprentice Starkiller, hunting Jedi, works very well as a plot. The wistle 
 stop tour of cameos also doesn't jar as much as you might think. The only thing that's hard to 
 stomach is that it doesn't so much rewrite the story as tear out pages and eat them. Especially 
 as events clearly make Starkiller the most powerful Jedi ever and the crucial pivot responsible 
 for everything in Episodes IV, V, VI.
  
  Your core powers are built around lightsaber combos lightning and Force manipulation. It's initially 
 simplystic hack 'n' slash stuff but level up and things get interesting. New combos and powers 
 increase your options and you can moix them up-finishing a furry of blows with a flare of electricity 
 or a devastating Force blast. The combat is similar with DMC4. It includes combination of lightning 
 and moves that decimate the opposition.
  
  Though the game stops short of Nero's acrobatic brilliance. Around the first 6 hours you will have 
 unlocked all the best moves so just when you feel the fighting is about to reveal hidden depths 
 it stalls. You can still power up abilities but the variety stops. One redeeming ability is the 
 one that undos all your leveling up at any point and reassign your collected XP from scratch.
 
  
  What's hard to understand is that having given you abilities LA seems hell bent on stopping you 
 from using them. When you pass some stages most opponents will easily avoid all your special attacks 
 and powers. This leaves you feeling impotent or worse like your abilities aren't so special after 
 all. That infrustrating because when you're allowed to cut loose with your skills it's brilliant. 
 When you make good combinations you gain self confidence and get excited. But most of the time 
 you will be facing a huge amount of foes and when you try to hit someone the others will hit you 
 from behind or shoot you from distance.
  
  The Boss Fights need special mention. Every single one is broken. It is a horrible mess. To make 
 matters worse countless button-press mini games appear to make you grab your head.
  
  All in all it is a good game but sometimes desparating. It deserves your attention.
  
  Graphics:8
 
  Sound:8
  Gameplay:7
  Controls:8
  Lasting appeal:7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeonfollower
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 31, 2009 3:31 am PT
Review:  I just fast forward to the game in mind. When I played this game for like an hour or so, this game 
 is really dull and boring. This is my first time reviewing the game that is not have the proper 
 points of review I wanting to give because of the not so chalenging adventure I've been given to 
 in a world of Star Wars. If you have the Star Wars game on Gamecube what is it called? ( I forgot 
 the title, shooting genre) you'll best playing that game instead of this humiliation to the game 
 of Star Wars. Sorry again for any unconvinience I make to you reader's of Gamespot. The character 
 moving is like a ghost walking on his sleep kinda thing. And the hidden power-ups is sometimes 
 or really frequent is more annoying than the enemy I'm afraid. The ending is just so-so.. except 
 we play on the hard difficulty setting the ending is slightly more interesting to see ( but I haven't 
 beat the game on hard difficulty setting) . When I buy this game, I mistakenly thinking if this 
 game is as good as Star Wars KOTOR rpg like adventure that hooked me up until the very end. My 
 opinion is very the same like you Gamespot viewers. I think this game is just for rental for the 
 night and the rest of it will end up in the store shelves for a long time waiting to be bought 
 by the people of unfortunate buyer. That's all from me from your friend on the Gamespot universe. 
 Thank you for reading my review of Star Wars The Force Unleashed. "May the Force be with you" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DM2438
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2009 3:52 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard about this game, I was not too excited. That is why I just go around to playing 
 it and lets just say I got the unexpected. My girlfriends uncle was playing this game and I was 
 like "this looks childish". I don't know why I thought that because this game is more mature then 
 many of the games on the market. First off, the story is solid and the lead actor (the guy who 
 plays Doomsday on Smallville) sells this role like no other. I am not a big fan of story wars, 
 does not mean I do not like it, but I never really when that direction with my preference. Anyway, 
 the point is I did not expect this game to deliver, but it actually does.
  
  The gameplay is fun, though moves are limited and you tend to use the same move over and over which 
 does not get old, but it's just seems funny how effective it is each time. You would think opponents 
 would learn to counter, but it is a game and it is all in fun right. The fun factor feels like 
 Spiderman Web of Shadows, but this is just a little more interesting. The fighting at some points 
 seem very random and some opponents have an unfair advantage over you which becomes annoying. Through 
 the game you have telekinesis and you can pick up what ever from enemies to big ass boulders, yet 
 an enemies who is just a little bigger than you (the black robot star troopers) can not be lifted, 
 and also they take forever to die. I spent alot of time hiding and recharging my lighting powers 
 so I could take them down. Though it builds intensity because you use strategy to destroy you opponent, 
 save times are limited and you go long stretches fight a million enemies and one wrong move means 
 game over. I can recall many parts that seem to last forever on for me to die by the hands of a 
 random enemy in the mist. 
  
  Another reason why this is bother is because one you get to fight bosses, moves that you use in 
 the game become useless. Bosses seem invincible and you spend alot of time just button mashing, 
 dodging and recharging. Very very annoying and unfair. Then once the battle is over, you watch 
 a cinematic scene where you appear to be unstoppable because now you are given the "ultimate" force 
 and you just mash on your opponent. It is nice to watch, but at the same time, it shows you how 
 the actual gameplay limits your assumeness!!!! Quick-time scenes are annoying as well because they 
 pop up out no where which means game over of course. That is very frustrating.
  
  But once you get over those flaws, you have a game that is both dramatic and fun. A rare bread. 
 MGS 4 was dramatic, but not really fun. I think the only game that really compares to this is Bioshock. 
 Though cut scenes are short, they are straight forward and believable. The voice acting is on point. 
 The character all feel believable, but the oscar goes to the Dark Vader son. He made this game 
 feel real. This character felt human and I can really appreciate this because the story backs up 
 the gameplay. I hate when I play games and the gameplay has no meainng (I'm looking at you F. E. A. R. 
 1 and 2) . For those people who love to play games with good stories, you do not want to miss this 
 one. Though the story is not that dramatic, awarding winning, or ground breaking, it has substance 
 and flavor and who doesn't like that. This game may be worth a buy, for me a rent like most game, 
 but either way play the game. Yes, alot of people may not feel the way I feel, but then again, 
 there are alot of people who do feel the same. Play the game, have fun, if you don't, play another, 
 it's simple. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cameronrules36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 21, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed rocks!!!!!!!!!!!!
  I will review the good and bad things in this game in my review. 
  
  The Good:
  Many levels 
 and Locations to explore
  20+ Force Moves
  Unlockable lightsaber types and costumes
  
  
  The Bad:
  A Few glitch problems
  
  In this game, you can enter the life of Starkiller, 
 Vader's apprentice. The story takes him on a lifechanging journey to defeat the sith, or join them. 
 You fight enemies and jedi on planets like Felucia, Kashykk, Coruscant, Raxus Prime and on the 
 Death Star itself. You can unlock force moves like lightning, choke, push, pull, repusle, maelstrom 
 and over 20+ more moves and upgrade them with the "Force Points" you collect by killing enemies. 
 Combat moves include throwing your saber, and of course, using it to oblitterate enemy troops. 
 You will fight bossess like Jedi, Sith, AT-STs and even Rancors (Normal and Bull kind) . You can 
 unlock orange, red, pink, purple, blue, green, and yellow lightsabers by finding crystals. You 
 can also unlock bonus costumes. Also, by finding Jedi Holocrons (200 are hiden across the game) , 
 you can view concept art in the rogue shadow, as well as Factfiles of weapons, characters, vehicles 
 and planets. On some of the concept art are hidden codes which you can enter in the rogue shadow, 
 to unlock bonus characters and cheats like invincibillity. These characters include characters 
 from all 6 episodes, and Ventress from the clone wars and Mara jade from the later books. You cannot 
 unlock Grevious or Yoda, which is a shame. Boss characters and friendly characters from the game 
 are also unlockable. One flaw from changing characters is that it takes allot of time to change 
 because it shows the droid changing the costumes for about 3 seconds. Also, I think it would be 
 better if the game would allow you to unlock double lightsabers, which it dosen't. 
  
  9.5/10 in total. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:28 pm PT
Review:  There may be better games out there and I know there were some great Star War games in the past. 
 My favorite were for the N64. Everyone remember Shadow of the Empire and Rogue Squadron??? Excellent 
 games that I miss dearly...
  
  If you liked Shadows of the Empire you'll love this game. I honestly don't know why this game received 
 only a 7.5. 
  
  First off the story in this game is breathtaking. Every star wars fan could appreciate it. The 
 acting is incredible. 
  
  The hero in this game is a very powerful jedi. I love taking enemies and force thowing them to 
 kingdom come! This game is one of my favorites to play because it's so much fun basing storm troopers 
 and having jedi duels with the 2 most powerful Siths in the Star Wars Saga...
  
  The fighting is pretty amazing with all the moves you can do. 
  
  There are only 2 negative 
 things I can say about all the positive and here they are. First off, they should've picked more 
 unique and interesting jedi's to hunt I feel. I can't say anything bad about General Kota, because 
 he's a great character, but the others I wasn't so pleased about. Second, at times it's hard to 
 spot enemies due to the camera angles. 
  
  Other than that a great game and worth buying if you love Star Wars. If you don't then you probably 
 will not like this... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 4, 2009 9:48 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed, of course, has a lot to prove and not just because of its ambitious name. 
 It's also the first outing for LucasArts' much-hyped new engine technology. Moreover, it's arguably 
 the first real attempt to reinvigorate the Star Wars brand in videogames after a series of utterly 
 lacklustre games punctuated only by the fantastic (and non-LucasArts) LEGO Star Wars titles. It's 
 promising, then, that pretty much the first thing it does is break some of the unspoken and restrictive 
 rules of Star Wars games to date. By way of a prologue and tutorial level, you're given charge 
 of the ultimate Dark Side fantasy - you play Darth Vader, slaughtering countless yowling furry 
 beasts in an all-out assault on the Wookiee homeworld.
  
  The introduction to the game's controls is almost buried under an opening level that's bombastic, 
 graphically stunning and incredibly good fun. Accompanied by the Imperial March, black cloak billowing 
 in the wind, you stalk through the level trying out the various powers at your disposal as the 
 game prompts you. Overhead, Star Destroyer-style ships hum through the atmosphere. Off to either 
 side, troop deployments and AT-ST walkers ravage the forest. It looks very good. As you progress, 
 the game starts to make good on its Force Unleashed promise. Gone are the wimpy, special-case Force 
 powers of previous games. With you playing as a Dark Side character, The Force in this game is 
 a heavy-duty power - enabled by a comprehensive physics and AI engine that lets enemies and objects 
 alike react realistically to the abilities you're flinging about the place. The very first problem 
 you encounter is an enormous wood and metal gate, which stands at the entrance to the Wookiee village. 
 No problem - blast it with the Force Push ability, and the gate strains inwards as metal buckles 
 and wood splinters. A few more blasts and it's off its hinges entirely. This is how it works from 
 here on out: Sith Lords don't open doors. Even heavy metal doors aboard ships and space stations 
 can be buckled by the Force. Better again, we discover later on that you can pick up Imperial troopers 
 and hurl them bodily at doors, smashing them open while simultaneously killing the troopers.
  
  As you move through the village, the basic powers - and combinations of powers - that form 
 the basis of your arsenal when you take control of Vader's Apprentice in subsequent levels are 
 revealed. Push will remain a major part of the game the whole way through, we suspect, but it's 
 the Grip power that really lets you cut loose and start ripping up the scenery. Just about any 
 object - even huge things that would be scenery in any other game - can be lifted, moved and thrown 
 around. Powers like Lightning and Repulse (which fires enemies away from you in a wide circle) 
 are fun, but compared to the potential for causing mayhem with Grip, they pale.
  
  Meanwhile, some of the game's more complex moves are created by combining existing powers from 
 your arsenal. One of our favourites is introduced right back in the tutorial level, when you learn 
 how to lift up Wookiees using Force Grip and then fling your lightsaber through the air to impale 
 them as they hang helplessly. It's hard not to cackle when you're doing it. More powers and combos 
 are, unsurprisingly, unlocked as you progress. Your character, the Apprentice, essentially levels 
 up as he goes along, with each level giving you more points to spend on improving your powers. 
 The interface for these upgrades is fairly heavy-duty, with tons of different abilities made available 
 as you progress, along with power boosts for your starting abilities. There's some tantalising 
 stuff in there, although sadly we didn't have an opportunity to play with any of the really high-level 
 powers you'll be throwing around by the end. As you progress through the earlier levels in Force 
 Unleashed, the game's graphics remain hugely impressive, and the physics and AI are given an opportunity 
 to play out in increasingly large arenas. The Apprentice's first mission, on board a large space 
 station, sees you fighting off hordes of Rebel and Imperial troops (you are a secret agent, so 
 you need to kill all witnesses - Imperials are as much your enemy as Rebels) , and gives a good 
 example of how LucasArts makes the game difficult for a character that's essentially a superhero. 
 Throw enough minions at him and he'll have to find a clever way out or sink under their combined 
 weight.
  
  The biggest problem we see after an hour or so of play is that the developers have been tempted 
 to break the game's own rules in order to create "better" scripted events. One such event, where 
 you fight an AT-ST walker in a narrow space, is hugely frustrating. Despite the range of powers 
 available, the AT-ST is only really susceptible to very specific attacks, and in a game with a 
 physics engine this good that's pretty feeble. As you try to work out what the designers wanted 
 you to do, all you can think is how much more fun it would have been if you could slam the walker's 
 feet out from under it with Force Push, or whatever. Momentarily that freedom has been taken away 
 from you.
  
  The same approach is visible in other places, too, and it could be the game's undoing. That being 
 said, the code we played was unfinished, and the core is already fantastic - the Force powers, 
 physics and AI mesh to create hugely entertaining encounters that adapt to everything you're doing 
 seamlessly. Hopefully the designers can bring balance to the scripting before the game's September 
 release.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazackward
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 28, 2009 5:03 pm PT
Review:  For me, the game was a little challenging at first while I built up my force points and learned 
 the combos. After you play through it once and begin again, you keep all of your talents and combos. 
 This made the initial stages crazy easy! There are a lot of hidden items to find and each level 
 has one special accomplishment to complete. I went after the special stuff on my 2nd time through.
 
  
  As far as bonus content, I wasn't really impressed. The training room stuff is not even remotely 
 a challenge so, unless you like repeatedly going back through and killing stuff you already killed 
 before, it's not something to plan on playing long-term.
  
  Good: Fun the first few times, interesting story, get to really kick some butt after your first 
 time through
  
  Bad: So many combos it would be tough to master them all, not much replay value
  
  Overall: 
 I enjoyed it but I don't think it was worth $60 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ElGreco88
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 24, 2009 5:13 am PT
Review:  As a big Star Wars fan I couldn't avoid buying this game...... although I should!!!
  
  Ok let's start from the graphics. They are ok but nothing close to what they COULD BE. It's PS3 
 after all. It didn't make any difference from some PS2 games in that factor. The gameplay from 
 the other hand was terrible. It's like they wanted to make a game as fast as possible in order 
 to make profit and only that. I dumped it in like hours! I can't say it gets boring 'cause actually 
 it never gets interesting. Characters suck and it's generally full of bugs and glitches. I just 
 don't get it why they made a game like this. No trophies, no online, nothing. Just another PS2 
 game...
  
  Even fans would be disappointed (I think in fact that they would be more disappointed than any 
 other gamer) , because this game is nothing close to the Star Wars atmosphere. AVOID AT ANY COST!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xkal318
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed had been on my wish list for quite a while. I was glad to finally 
 get my hands on it. It is obviously not the huge blockbuster everyone thought it would be, but 
 nonetheless it still provides an interesting look at the Star Wars saga through a different point 
 of view. The levels are lush and beautifully designed, i just wish there were more of them, and 
 that we didn't have to go back to previously visited worlds. The controls feel good except when 
 i'm using a power and trying to jump but have to wait forever. I also loathed how you could still 
 get hit when you were on the ground after being hit. But the game redeemed itself in not being 
 the typical Star Wars game. I look forward to a sequel i just hope they can fix these minor problems. 
 More levels and better response in controls. The story was epic and the graphics were on par with 
 today's hits. I'd recommend to any fan of course as well as to any action adventurer lover. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigflu
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 1, 2009 5:53 pm PT
Review:  The positives ..... Good story line, whether you follow the Star Wars universe or not. It's easy 
 to follow, with recognizable characters to even the casual Star Wars fan. The lead character offers 
 a wide variety of powers, combos, upgrades, customization, with attainable power-ups and items. 
 The game moves at the users pace, and gives you plenty of time to look around for these attainable 
 items ...... once you've wiped out all the bad (or good) guys that is. You also have ample opportunity 
 to practice with your powers between missions. 
  
  The negatives ...... The camera blows. It tends to reposition itself at times, especially when 
 in close-quarters combat with larger items. And considering that your primary weapon is a lightsaber, 
 this happens quite often. The Saving Points are relatively close enough, but the game doesn't offer 
 the ability to save at specific points. Even when opening the menu and saving your progress manually, 
 it will only take you back to the last autosave point. This is particularly annoying when you beat 
 the difficult characters, but miss the subsequent big jumps you have to make immediately afterwards 
 ...... if you suck at jumping (like I do) be prepared to beat the boss's multiple times until you 
 get the jumps down.
  
  Difficulty ....... It wasn't very hard, and allows the player to adjust accordingly. The easy level 
 is just that, and the upper levels allow the defenders to block more effectively (yes some characters 
 can block lightsabers) and take more hits. In some cases, it seemed like it may have added an extra 
 person or two, but it was not noticeable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fmobliv06
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:35 pm PT
Review:  I want to enjoy my time with The Force Unleashed, I really do, but Lucasarts clearly had other 
 plans. Every time I play through a legitimately fun section of the game, I am foolishly lured into 
 thinking, for the umpteenth time, "Hey, maybe this will turn out good after all." Not so. Like 
 clockwork, each fun section of the game is followed by a hideously annoying one. In short, there 
 are many elements of TFU that work just fine, but there are at least as many that work poorly, 
 and thus the newest Star Wars game is tough to reccomend. 
  
  Gameplay in TFU is an amalgamation of typical GoW-style hack'n'slash and a physics-based playground 
 that ends up working decently. First things first, don't even bother trying to target anything 
 using R1, as protagonist Starkiller (snicker) typically assigns more importance to the boxes sitting 
 behind him than the Rancor/giant droid/army of soldiers loitering about in front of him. The mere 
 fact that I can target a box is rediculous given that I can just look in its general direction 
 and hit R2 to catch it in a force grip, but I digress. Aside from targeting issues, combat generally 
 works well. It really is satisfying to electrocute a hapless soldier and fling him into his buddies, 
 killing them all. Starkiller can also level up after killing a certain amount of enemies, improving 
 his hit points, force powers, combos, and much more. The entire melee combat system is fairly reminiscent 
 of God of War, but TFU (understandably) lacks the punch that made GoW so much fun to watch. Even 
 if TFU was as gory as its inspiration, the combo upgrades still lack the punch that they have in 
 many games of this ilk because on the default difficulty it is rarely necessary to use more than 
 3 or 4 different combos, making the combat seem less visceral and more boring than it should. 
 
  
  That's not to say that TFU is easy all the time, though. The difficulty level, while not as sporadic 
 as in some games that suffer from this problem, seems to jump from easy to frustrating in mid level 
 for no apparent reason. Luckily, it is possible to change the difficulty setting on the fly, but 
 it should not be necessary to pause a game once every level or so to find the perfect difficulty 
 setting for the particular moment. Sometimes, however, the difficulty is a result of poor programming 
 rather than middling game balancing. For example, during the junk planet level it is necessary 
 to traverse a series of cliffsides in order to find Starkiller's target. If Starkiller gets too 
 close to the edge of a cliff in this section, he will slide right off the edge even if both of 
 his feet are planted on solid ground. He will also often launch himself from the cliff mid-combo 
 because once he begins an attack animation, he's locked into that animation until it finishes. 
 Also, the game has frozen up on me twice, but only in the beginning levels.
  
  Like I said earlier, though, for most of the downsides there is an upside. The graphics are pretty 
 nice, especially during the great cutscenes. While the in-game character models are nothing spectacular, 
 the environments have a nice concept-art look to them, and the fact that everything is physics-enabled 
 is amazing. It is especially impressive to see a stormtrooper trip over his own feet as Starkiller 
 gives him a shove with the force, or to see a hapless enemy reach for a ledge as he flies past. 
 These small details make the entire world seem more alive, which contributes to the pretty strong 
 story at work behind the action. Musically speaking, TFU is typical Star Wars stuff, and while 
 I've never been a huge fan of the SW music, I do recognize the fact that it is ably performed and 
 will please even die-hard fans. 
  
  While TFU has a nice graphical and audio presentation, it is unfortunately lacking in more important 
 areas. The difficulty is sporadic, the game is a bit glitchy, the targeting system is an abomination, 
 and combat loses its spice even after leveling Starkiller up. TFU has lofty ambitions, but it only 
 reaches halfway there.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Radman2117
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 19, 2009 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Hi my name is Raman2117 and this my Review of Star Wars The Force Unleashed.
  
  Star Wars The Force Unleashed is based between the third and fourth Star Wars movies. Its main character 
 is a young Jedi called Starkiller who Darth Vader finds and raises as his secret apprentice.
  
  Lots of fun is to be had with this game due to its amazing environment and unbelievably good 
 graphics. The Storyline is Great and keeps people curious about whats next to come, Also the lightsaber 
 affect are excellent and the force powers have very nice impact to the game aswell as stunning 
 visual effects.
  
  Good points about the game are its Graphics, Gamplay, Lightsber effects, Force powers and storyline.
 
  
  Bad points there arent many.
  
  Overall I give 8/10 and recomend that any gamer should give it a playthrough as it is great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Naedeslus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is a general feeling of a mixed bag. On one hand, the story and characters are simply 
 up there with the original trilogy, and very enjoyable. This in fact, is one of the best Star Wars 
 stories, and worth exploring just for it's stories and character. As with the old characters that 
 you knew to love and hate. It introduces many new characters, which are very likable, and have 
 a considerable amount of character depth.
  
  The story in fact, is rather deep and involving and tells a great storyline, with many twists and 
 turns, and even fleshes out on Vader's psyche and character as well, which considering Darth Vader 
 is one of my favorite villains: is a good thing.
  
  The game play is where it seems to be it's strength and weakness. When the action is intense, it 
 is quite awesome. Hack and slash game play with the ability to use the force is pretty good. It's 
 an improvement over the Episode III video game, and I found it even more enjoyable than Jedi Academy 
 in terms of game play mechanics. 
  
  It also uses quick-time moments, that Resident Evil 4 and God of War used. What makes it different 
 here, is that, missing a button press does not equal death, and has little to no penalty, with 
 the exception of seeing the animation. They tend to get annoying after awhile because sometimes 
 you just don't see them coming, and sometimes they don't appear at all, yet for the most part, 
 they do their job.
  
  Where the game fails is design choices. The game has glitches. Some are not that obvious, while 
 some are near game-breaking which force a reset. Luckily there are many checkpoints, but should 
 not be there in the first place. It feels at times, as if the game was rushed in this regard. There 
 are also some moments where the difficulty increases incredibly high, and the difficulty just lacks 
 a balance. Sometimes the game feels easy, and then other times it feels frustratingly hard. It 
 even has a terrible method to 'take the star destroyer down' it's terrible, i'll just put it that 
 way.
  
  Yet the action can be intense and quite fun, it just lacks a certain polish that would make it 
 shine even more.
  
  The music is great, of course it's John Williams. The voice acting is also top-notch to. The writing 
 is clearly better than the prequel trilogy and the dialog works quite well. It could use a bit 
 more original songs though, but the music all and all is great.
  
  The graphics are beautiful. Now of course the PS2, PSP, DS, and Wii versions are not that good, but 
 the PS3 and X360 versions look very polished and in some cases, look like one of the prequels with 
 the scenery. It's a game to look at and wonder.
  
  
  The game is a bit short, 8 hours. It almost feels like there should of been a bit more of the game. 
 While there is some DLC on the horizon, I hear it's not even truly worth it. Though the game is 
 a mixxed bag, it's certainly a good game in it's own right. Star Wars fans should find a way to 
 play this.
  
  Story: 9/10
  Graphics: 8/10
  Gameplay: 6/10
  Sound: 8/10
  
  Final Score:
  
  7.5/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Justinps2hero
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:20 pm PT
Review:  The Star Wars franchise needed to start moving in a different direction, too many games had just 
 exploited fans of the films, and not given much back at all. The Force Unleashed takes on a new 
 unseen character; Starkiller. Darth Vader himself takes Starkiller under his wing and trains him, 
 in the art of the dark side. The story flows well, although cut scenes are a bit sketchy for a 
 big block busting game. Lots of Force upgrades keep intrest fresh, but some battles seem a tad 
 repetitive.
  Bringing down the star destroyer should have been left out completely if you ask me, but hey ho. 
 At the end, when your light sabreslast spark has been burnt, and its all done and dusted, there's 
 a nice sense of achievement. But far from being put back in its box and left on the shelf for dust 
 to gather, your find the game back on again, so you can see the the final upgrades at work, whether 
 it being force blasting Jawa's through windows, or pulling Tie fighters of production rails, there's 
 still things to be done. Various costumes, intriguing Jedi's you wont have seen before, Rancor 
 monsters, its all worth a second crack at it, because by this time, you'll be the most powerful 
 Jedi Master in the Star Wars universe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordsidious1121
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  Along time ago in a galaxy far far away........... and with those words a movie became so so much 
 more. now more than 30 years later Star Wars is still a huge part of pop culture. not just in the 
 vain of movies but Action figures, Novels, Comics, and video games. Video games such as the Force 
 Unleashed.
  
  Force Unleashed is the first next gen Star Wars video game out for the 360 and PS3 gaming systems. 
 It tells the tale of Darth Vader's Secret apprentice who aids the dark lord of the Sith in hunting 
 down the remaining Jedi scattered all over the galaxy from Order 66 ( an order issued by Emperor 
 Palpatine/ Darth Sidious for the clones to turn on their Jedi generals) . Along the way encountering 
 new and familiar faces. Also encountering the true nature of the dark side of the force on his 
 path to fulfilling his destiny. For a story it is in true Star Wars fashion intruding new characters, 
 and planets. The very feel of this game along with the very familiar score sets you right into 
 true Star Wars action. The voice acting in this game is great.
  
  The game play is good. But you will find your self wanting more force powers to use. They give 
 you a minimal selection of force powers at the start of the game. Then you will have the chance 
 to unlock more along they way as well as upgrading. after a couple of uses of your powers of the 
 Force you kinda can see it becoming repetitive, and when dealing with some overwhelming situations 
 you find your self using your skills with a Lightsaber more so than calling upon the powers of 
 the Force ( at least i did) .
  
  
  For a Star Wars fan this is a must play. But you will find your self after the game is over wanting 
 more. You could take another spin in the game for the seconded ending depending on what side you 
 chose (Light side / Dark Side) it will let you continue with you beefed up powers. along with some 
 OLC (On Line Content) for mission packs as well as some extra characters to replay the game as. 
 Overall this game offers some replay value but not much after your second play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam111111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  When you pick up your copy of 'Star Wars: The Force Unleashed' you notice one thing. The person 
 on the cover is completely foreign to you. This would present some promise as perhaps gamers wouldn't 
 be stuck with the poor voice acting of 'Star Wars: Revenge of the Sith'. You also, if you didn't 
 know of the game beforehand, think it was another cheap game you could play, which wouldn't boast 
 any major changes from what we've previously seen in the Star wars gaming series. The former assumption 
 is correct. As this game will certainly entertain someone for 50 hours+.
  
  
  In 'The Force Unleashed'. Set between episodes 3 & 4 of the Star Wars series. You are not a Jedi 
 or any form of hero. Instead you are the opposite. You are are Darth Vader's secret apprentice. 
 And you go about doing his bidding killing Jedi Masters and creatures and on such planets you'll 
 already know of such as Felucia and Kashyyyk. Your character, a. k. a Starkiller like a jedi apprentice. 
 Swears never to betray his master. And whilst being good at heart is still a vision of darkness.
 
  
  
  The best thing about this game is the concept art. In the cutscenes between levels and even in 
 the levels the objects you'll see, far or distant. Are all so detailed. With some of the majesticity 
 we saw in the Star Wars movies in these pictures
  
  
  The gameplay has but one flaw. All Jedi can pick things up. But the ground is simply littered with 
 objects. And it will be whichever way Star killer is facing (which can be difficult to determine 
 [press R3] ) that he will use the force. It is difficult to pick up what you want to. Although if 
 you're very good you should be alright. The best of the gameplay is in the lightsaber duels. Even 
 if it is with an Imperial guard, it is always fun. With saber Locks, Force locks, force grab locks, 
 and lightning locks throughout. And at the end of a major enemy you must pull off a finishing move 
 clicking the corresponding square, triangle x, or circle button. 
  
  
  During the game you can upgrade Starkillers attributes. You can unlock force combos, force powers 
 and force abilities. Using the experience you have gained. However you never see Vader training 
 the boy. But it does feel as though the apprentice is actually getting stronger throughout the 
 game. You can unlock lightsabre power and color crystals. All with their different properties. 
 And by the end of the game with maxed out abilities you'll see that enemies it once took three 
 or four hits with a lightsabre can now be dispatched with a flick. Ultimately stormtroopers are 
 the weakest enemy in the game if not the Jawas. 
  
  
  The story takes about nine to ten hours to complete. There are ten missions. One at the beginning 
 where as Vader you hunt on Kashyyyk for the son of a remaining Jedi to 'adopt'. Each mission should 
 take about an hour to do the first time. Despite its shortness. The Force Unleashed feels like 
 one of the movies during its story. And infact feels like the 4th episode with seven in all.
  
  
  The story is mainly linear. Only at the end do you have a choice of what to do. There are 
 two endings. Canon and Darkside. The latter is extremely depressing
  
  
  The sound track to this game can only be good. As it uses the music from the movies. So it creates 
 quite a spectacular setting. The sound effects are cool. The clashing of lightsabers, the exploding 
 starships and barrels, the guns firing and the vacuum of space opening before closing behind a 
 metal door. The best sound his the hum of your lightsaber whilst your enemies yelp, scream and 
 choke on your attacks.
  
  
  One of the surprises in this game is the absence of multiplayer. Even local. Where you can duel 
 your friends etc. An invitation to buy soul Calibre four perhaps? 
  
  
  Star Wars: The Force unleashed is a great game. Even though it could have been better. With great 
 art design, moves, graphics and SFX. This game is certainly worth playing for quite some time. 
 I give it 8.5/10.
  
  
  Story: 9/10
  Gameplay: 8/10
  SFX: 8/10
  Music:10/10
  Lasting appeal:8/10
  Multiplayer: N/A
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RapMatster
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 6, 2009 4:26 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars games have never really been GREAT since the beginning (expect Star Wars Battlefront) 
 but after seeing the previews and all the hype for this game i thought maybe we have something 
 here. As usual it let me down, mainly because of the extremely difficult control system.
  
  The Gameplay:
  Very glitchy at times and felt impossible to dodge things that were thrown at 
 you.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics were great and the physics of the objects and the environment were really impressive. 
 What I personally loved was how you could force grab a Stormtrooper and make him grab hold of an 
 object or another trooper.
  
  Music:
  Wonderful.
  
  Storyline/Plot:
  Was perfect, movie like, best part of the whole game. Loved General Kota. 
  
  Overall:
  I 
 think they should make the movie version for this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InspiringTouch
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars games have always impressed me down the years from Rogue Leader to The Clone Wars. When 
 The Force Unleashed was annouced it held alot of promise looking like the great Jedi Knight series, 
 Sadly Lucasart should have took a page out of the Jedi Outcast book if they wanted to make this 
 game anywhere near as good.
  
  The Force Unleashed focuses on giving the player the chance to use the force in ways never before 
 possible, from force lighting to force grip you can do a range of attacks and combos along with 
 your trusty lightsaber. However as good as the concept is, TFU fails to deliver on so many levels 
 its to know where to start.
  
  The story of the game is based arond Darth Vaders secret apprentice, intresting correct? However 
 the game rushes this intresting plot so much that at the end of the game, you just don't care what 
 your characters doing anymore. Many of the cutscenes are short and it seems there trying to get 
 a big story into little gaps half the time. The story is told in a very bad way, I wasn't sure 
 weather I was fighting on the dark or light side throughout most of the game and the Star Wars 
 characters are just terrible. Jedis don't act like Jedis, coming out with lines like "I'll finishes 
 you off boy", not really very Jedi like is it. Darth Vador has little offer, he barely shows his 
 might Sith Lord powers, often being beaten or confused, the only character they really nailed well 
 was the Empire himself even tho his role was fairly weak. The main character is called Starkiller, 
 he being on the dark side of the force, often sounding like a Jedi nor Sith. He talks like he's 
 some bounty hunter whos not quite sure who to kill next.
  
  The enviroment and graphics are one of the games few plus points, although the levels are very 
 short and often repeats the same enviroment again and again. What you do see is fairly impressive, 
 the game is set in a number of different locations however they failed to capture the attmosphere 
 of almost anything, Nar Shaddar feels just like the Tie Factory. The level layout is very linar 
 and you'll get bored fairly fast of running through the levels, not really sure of your objective, 
 just trying to reach the end and enemys are really just something that you'll have to remove, not 
 something you want to destroy using these awesome force powers on like they really should be.
 
  
  The games biggest problem by far and the most irritating thing I've come accross in a game in a 
 long time is its controls mixed with a unresponsive attack system. At times you'll be trapped stuck 
 on the floor (which you spend more time on than standing up fighting) getting yourself up on your 
 feet to be lasered back down on the floor, because theres no way to change the way you rise to 
 your feet, at times you'll be stuck in a cycle of get up, knocked down, get up, knocked down etc. 
 I recall facing Darth Vador at the end he just trapped me in the corner and used this method on 
 me until I was dead, not really what you want from a video game at all.
  Sometimes I found pressing a button just did nothing, dodging is non exsistent too, you can time 
 your jump or dash to avoid lazer fire and it will still somehow manage to hit you. The problem 
 is this dosn't make the game more challenging, it makes it more annoying. These gameplay machanics 
 are some of the worst and the overall game feels rushed in most ways.
  
  All this tied with a short game, bad action button events and an aweful way to tell a good plot 
 makes TFU one of the most frustrating games I've ever played. Not to mention it possibly being 
 the worst Star Wars game to date.
  A few plus points for the game is a nice custom system, being able to choose your lightsaber colour, 
 your apperence and even download new characters to play the game with.
  All in all the game does more wrong than it does right. Its a rushed arcade expierence that really 
 shouldn't bare the name Star Wars. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malsen08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  This is a very good enjoyable game. This game could have been great, but does have a few bugs  
 one mission I was playing and the fort in I needed to enter just disappeared as I walk up to it. 
 I had to restart the mission  fortunately I was not long into it. There also times when objects 
 are "hanging" in mid-air.
  
  The game play could have been better  at times aiming can be difficult which is annoying especially 
 during boss fights or fighting high numbers of enemies as this can be costly. There are instances 
 when you jump and get "stuck" in the scenery. This happened to me a few times though the game which 
 again is annoying  fortunately I did not have to restart any missions, after pressing a number 
 of buttons eventually got out of the situation, but this is something that really could have been 
 avoided.
  
  Other annoyances include unable to skip some cut-scenes when replaying missions. It is also slow 
 loading between the game and upgrade screens.
  
  The game could also have been a bit longer. Two of the missions are very short and can be completed 
 in about 15 minutes. The rest are a lot better and can take around an hour to complete.
  
  I don't want to focus too much on the negative. The game has a lot of positives. 
  
  It has 
 a great story that keeps you interested and wanting to play the next mission. It's almost like 
 being in a movie even if it does "steal" some scenes and lines from the original movies.
  
  The graphics are excellent and there are many superb scenes. You have a number of different forces 
 \ combos and talents which you can upgrade as you play. The missions include a bonus mission, force 
 points (earned by using various combos) and holograms you can collect to assist in your force upgrades 
 making you that much stronger.
  
  If it wasn't for the minor negatives and the length of the game I probably would have given it 
 an 8.5 or 9. However this is still a game worth playing whether a Star Wars fan or not.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SilverWolfaa
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 28, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  this game has alot it also has alot of static. Like all the other starwars games before it people 
 exspect it to be perfect, and if it isnt then the game will suck to them. kinda like the bad news 
 bears situation. the graphics in this game are great, top notch. The sound effects are pretty good, 
 too loud at some points i thought. But they still make you feel like your in starwars. The gameplay 
 was good, but only good. When you needed to target something you had to make him face it. You couldnt 
 move the target around picking what you wanted. By move around i mean move from object to object 
 without moving him. That is the only REAL problem with this game. alittle short, but thier are 
 mission packs already ready in the ps store. So this game is a keeper with the targeting problem 
 i give it a 9. A better and more reasonable score for a groundbreaking game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 28, 2008 12:52 am PT
Review:  Graphics:9
  Gameplay:6
  Sound:9
  Replay Value:6
  
  
  The Force unleached should of been one of the greatest games of 2008, it should of perched itself 
 as a nominee for GOTY, it should of given star wars geeks all that more canon story to add to their 
 catalogue. TFU was meant to do alot of things, but sadly only managed to live up to a few.
  
  As a story it does at least give some more insight into the destruction of the Jedi, the birth 
 of the Rebel Alliance and even more character development for everybodys favourite robotic asmastic. 
 There isn't all that much story to grasp on though sadly, considering how much backstory was created 
 by the KOTOR games itsa damn shame they couldn't give you a tale that could actually keep you entertained 
 till yet another prequel/sequel comes along. TFU's story though seems like a very small chapter 
 added in for quick measure just to tie up a few more loose ends instead of giving a whole new story. 
 Maybe thats what it was meant to be, but its not what I wanted.
  
  TFU puts you in the role of Starkiller, Vaders secret apprentice, as we all know. Like your typical 
 sith lord, Vader is plannig on betraying The Emperor for supremacy over the galaxy with Starkiller 
 at his side. It starts of as simple as that, Vader sends you out to hunt some of the last remaining 
 Jedi, one of which is a key figure of the Jedi community too. It will get more complicated than 
 that and Starkiller will soon enough question his own loyalties and his own morality at that too. 
 The story does appeal well enough to star wars fan I'de say and the voice acting that delivers 
 it all is surprisingly good, least from what the prequels has shown us. Sam Wittleir does a beyond 
 brilliant performance as Starkiller and has definatly set his mark on the character, what with 
 him actually having himself photo generated as Starkillers appearance.
  
  The story will contain many characters from both sagas prequel and original which should force 
 a smile or smirk from any star wars devotee's.
  
  So, the story is generally a success giving even more star wars characters for people to dress 
 up as and a good tie in to the in betweens of EP 3 to 4.
  
  Its from there though that the game begins to falter.
  
  Gameplay espeically. Its a typical 
 hack n slash game all over. From the beginning to end you'l be doing the exact same thing throughout. 
 Though the game is at least rather short in fact so I suppose it won't matter to some. The overall 
 gameplay is definatly pretty fun, theres a good variety of force powers to take advantage of. Initially 
 when only faced with stormtroopers it can be rather fun to swing them all about or throwing explosive 
 barrels on top of them. But once the larger and force resistant enemys come along, frustration 
 starts to become a common occurence. The game will get pretty tough as it progress' but for the 
 wrong reasons. For one there will a number of attacks that can't be blocked and which tend to knock 
 Starkiller to the ground of at least off balance, but what may happen if you'll find yourself sliding 
 across the floor because the enemy will keep doing that same unblockable move.
  
  Its also impossible to counter mid-combo of some enemies and thus if they get that first attack 
 in, you'll be forced to take the full damage. Whats more the level design doesn't do a great deal 
 of telling you which areas are safe and which will send you to your own awrkward death. You may 
 very easily find yourself being knocked off the edge, noticing you were even close to the edge 
 though is hard enough thanks to the restrictive camera.
  
  Finding yourself surrounded by enemies all doing that same unblockable explosive attack will certaintly 
 test your patience, espiecally with the sigh inducing load times.
  
  The combat may have its problems, but it still can give you alot of entertainment if performed 
 right, with its difficulty it will then be very satisfying once you manage to take down that squad 
 of anti-flinching felucians. Whats more you may eventually manage to learn how to deal with all 
 the frustrating short comings the combat offers, it may be clunky at times and sometimes won't 
 even respond, but whats in store is at least worth it. Fantastic animation work from Starkiller 
 definatly gives you the look of one powerful lightsaber weidling sith... ish. The force powers on 
 offer too are rather fun to unleash. Lighting is always a treat and with some enemies will probably 
 be your only tactic for defeat. Force grip may not be too practical with most of the later enemies, 
 but once you actuallly get your grip on someone it can lead to alot of joy swinging him through 
 the air, shocking him with lightning then force pushing the prat of a cliff. Force push is your 
 other main force technique which is just as powerful as it should be, your not limited to say tripping 
 over a couple of droids, no Starkiller is eventually able to force push someone from one side to 
 the next. 
  
  The right combo's of all these wonderful and violent techniques can equal some fetching eye candy.
 
  
  The graphics overall are rather impressive. The character models espiecally are almost photo realistic, 
 espiecally Starkiller who again is a respresentation of Sam Wittlier. Theres no gore though sadly, 
 which is surprising considering the amount of violence is indeed seen throughout. None the less 
 throwing someone covered in lightning to a group of unsuspecting wookies is definatly a sight to 
 see... again... and again.
  
  Sound as i mentioned with the voice acting at least is a real truimpth. The soundtrack is what 
 we've all heard before, countless times, but I at least still find it suits and while it did happen 
 to dissapear into the background at times out of being so used to the tunes, did enjoy the familair 
 brass. Sound effects are the same, recycled lightsaber and blaster fire. Again though it all serves 
 its purpose and frankly has no reason to be altered, so the sound at least is what we hoped for.
 
  
  On a whole its a rather short game, probably only taking around 10 hours at most on your first 
 run. There is at least a surprising amount of costumes to unlock. Annoying though is if you happen 
 to wear one of the many costumes that isn't canon to the situation it won't show up in the cutscenes... which 
 with so many costumes to unlock is rather strange and unexpected. Lightsaber crystals of all colours 
 are scattered about aswell, so in some aspects starkiller can be made to look like your own type 
 of jedi/sith. He won't learn any new lightsaber styles though, so he'll always weild his lightsaber 
 the same way. Which isn't much to moan about, but considering the amount of downloadable skins 
 there is you'de think they would at least have their own lightsaber styles to accompany the characters.
 
  
  Playing through again is recommended though since after all the upgrades you've gone through and 
 all the new combo's you've assembled, your then alowd to play from the beginning with everything 
 you were left with. Costumes, lightsaber crystals and of course... level 3 force lightning! :D TFU 
 is definatly a better experience when you'll now have a reliable tactic for most enemies this time 
 around, the game will be made considerbly easier of course, but its much better this way, really 
 giving you the feel of an powerful Sith warrior. There is also these holocrons hidden through the 
 levels, they are what rewards you with the lightsaber crystals and a couple of costumes, there 
 rather satisfying to find since some are hidden rather well or at least placed in a hard to reach 
 area.
  
  Replay value may be present, but its not all that engaging, for most I'de expect just one runthrough 
 to get that much more star wars canon is probably enough. But for anyone who wanted to play TFU 
 just that lil bit closer to how it was meant to be released, I highly suggest playing through it 
 again, if you can handle the frustration of completing it the first time of course...
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: pinz90
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  We all know star wars films are great and fun to watch, Also they have done some great games like 
 star wars KOTOR etc but know with the next gens out such as the ps3 and the 360 they really have 
 not released a star wars game in till now! Star wars the force unleashed is here and ready to use 
 the force. The story is well good and told, you play as Darth Vader's secret apprentice how cool 
 is that. Your taking orders from the most powerful and evil jedi in the universe! Anyway your taking 
 orders to find and kill the remaining jedi's. The game play is ok not the best. The controls are 
 easy to use, newcomers will have to play for 10,15 min maybe less to get a hang of the controls! The 
 graphics is also good. The apprentice you play is a actor from the drama smallvile. You can do some 
 cool stuff like change the color of your light saber, change your outfit, improve your attack etc. Overall 
 this game is a OK with me and if your a star wars fan its going to be OK with you. Fall over to 
 the dark side or help the remaining jedi, its up to you! Sighing off pinz. Welcome to the dark side! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: googiebrothers
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 20, 2008 4:49 am PT
Review:  Its great for shoving balls of force at people and, throwing rocks and stuff but, ask this, WHERE 
 the cracker do all these things come from? And next, if i hit someone with a lightsaber, should 
 they Instead, they make an attempt, but sound affects prove it didnt slice, it eerelt bounces off 
 his skin/armour. So, it is really up to you how good it was.
  
  Story Line
  Play as Darth Vader in the first level with massive force power, then go down to his lowely apprentice 
 who literally stinks in using the force, so he can only push and throw people around. It wil stay 
 after a while, but I never finished the game.
  
  Graphics
  This is one of the few things good about this game. Its graphics are realistic, effects look mainly 
 real, and action goes with that you do and what goes around them. So yeah this is a good game for 
 looking at if you are that weird dude...
  
  Gameplay/controls
  Fairly easy controls, it is hard to move stuff in the air though
  
  Sound
  Another good thing, 
 they have good sounds. Voices go with their mouths and the screaing makes it all the better.
  
  So i said its ok... is it to YOU?!?!?!?!!?!? TRY IT... or not! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spartan8494
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 19, 2008 8:30 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is an awesome addition to the Star Wars video game series. What 
 is so unique about this game is instead of being the good guy, you get to be the villain for a 
 change. That is one of the things that makes this game a good one. In the game, you play as Darth 
 Vader's apprentice and you must go and kill various Jedi and enemies for Vader. The many combos 
 you can unlock always adds new ways to play. Another great feature to this game is the force grip 
 and push. Its pretty amazing to be able to throw people around with the push of a button. The addition 
 of saber and lightning combos will put a lot of power in the palm of your hand.
  
  Although the game is diverse and unique, it is still pretty hard. You are constantly being pelted 
 with enemy gunfire and it feels like there is no end. As you progress through the game, it gets 
 harder and harder and it gets pretty frustrating when your constantly being attacked by your enemies. 
 This difficult adventure game is still a good one, but it takes a lot of skill. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:36 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is an awesome game and I have to say that it's just plain fun. Although the 
 targeting system is a big lose, I still think it's a fun game to play. The game isn't that long, 
 but the replayability level is high. The PS3 and 360 versions are the ones to look at, as I have 
 tried all of the other platforms and it isn't as fun as these two. I recommend this game to any 
 Star Wars Fan looking for the story and possibly for the gameplay. It may be frustrating to some, 
 but I like this game a lot. The story is also quite in depth.
  I bought the game for the story and I thought that the gameplay was also not too bad as people 
 thought. Yes, the game could have been better, but I think it's alright. They could have held it 
 off until December to do some fixing, because there are some glitches. There are actually quite 
 a bit of them. Sometimes, the performance isn't that great, as it freezes or slows down at some 
 times, but it doesn't happen all the time. The boss fights are also fun, but some can be quite 
 challenging. There are about 5 levels, but they are long. In total, it's about 7 hours (average) 
 of gameplay, but I will enjoy returning to the beginning when my force powers are maxed out. 
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: flyingv16
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 3:20 pm PT
Review:  I had reserved this game a long long time ago. I was reading reviews on it and was really getting 
 excited about it. Sadly it was one of the biggest let downs in gaming history. As everyone knows 
 star wars really dominated in terms of everything, The video games weren't necessarily bad but 
 they didn't fit in with the movies to well. This game however sucked. It was unfinished there were 
 glitches everywhere and cliff hangers. In the beginning you play as vadar right. That should be 
 fun but every-time You kill a wookie there arms or legs go through the ground. Trees are falling 
 into rocks and going through them and there's so many bad animations with the characters its quite 
 sad. The A I is just insanely suckish. Pac man has a lot better A I no joke. You'll be standing 
 next to a wookie and they wont even notice that your there. They'll just stand there not moving 
 while you pull off some badass move on them. ON top of all this the game really sux because there's 
 f. uKn loading times when your wanting to change your light saber color. The whole experience is 
 horrendous. NO ONE SHOULD GET THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYCPrincess
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 10, 2008 5:43 am PT
Review:  My man bough this game on day one & I watched him play before I decided to get on this game & here 
 is my outtake.
  
  
  
  Story- You play starkiller who is darth vaders secret apprentice who's doing his masters bidding.. secretly. 
 You're out here hunting jedi's throughout the galaxy & trying to gain enough experience to help 
 your master take down the empire.
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay was a little choppy, the scenery was a little dull & the character designs 
 were just plain "Meh". 
  
  
  Music- I love music as much as my man, but I can honestly say if john williams did this soundtrack, 
 he fell off BIG TIME. 
  
  
  Overall- I think this game could've been so much better IF they had taken their time. There were 
 so many characters that were not added that could've been added with so much potential. Maybe next 
 time they can make it way better & give us fans a bit more to chew. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: toolbbc78
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:41 pm PT
Review:  Never has a game gone from being great to terrible and vice versa quite as often as this game does... in 
 certain parts the game runs smoothly, lightsaber cqc, certain force abilities (force lightning/repel/push) 
 and the cinematics /story deserve a 10 of 10 in design and fun factor. HOWEVER, the force targeting 
 system made me want to grab a steak knife and bludgeon my eyes out and a certain part involving 
 pulling down an imperial ship with the force seriously made me want to go on a killing spree it 
 was that frustrating. I am boggled as to how a game can be so superb and smooth in one aspect and 
 so god awful in another... wasn't this game tested? Am I the only one that noticed this? Come on, 
 Lucas Arts pumps out trash constantly and the fanboys will buy anything that dawns the star wars 
 title and give it a glaring approval, but don't be duped... i just wish they had gotten in right 
 here and with a bit more fine tuning i think they could have... what a shame... just glad i'm borrowing 
 it and didn't buy it... the developers should be ashamed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueZ06
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  The review is way too harsh IMO. If you even remotely like the Star Wars Universe then this should 
 be a no brainer. 2 main gripes I've seen so far are 1st, the difficulty in controling things with 
 the force and 2nd, a lack of true breakable objects in-game. The former was no problem at all, 
 for me at least, since the object that will be pushed, pulled, etc is whatever is in front of Starkiller's 
 view not the players. Once you get that concept down it's easy kittens. Second, the lack of breakables, 
 hmmmm. You do notice the rubbery plants in some levels but I wouldn't say that it destroyed my 
 vision of the game. It's Star Wars people, you have a lightsaber, that you can at least modify 
 somewhat, and really really destructive force powers, for me nuff said. Have had a blast playing 
 it and getting all the achievements. Definitely recommend. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khoofia_pika
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2008 3:46 am PT
Review:  How was the Rebellion formed? What happened between the Revenge of the Sith and A New Hope? Questions 
 like these, and a lot more, will be answered. The Force Unleashed, which is the episode no. 3.5 
 reveals all the plotholes ever and not just that- it focuses on the development of characters who 
 have already been introduced in the Star Wars saga and tells us of a young boy of a Jedi, whose 
 family is snatched away by the dark side and how Darth Vader trains him to become a Sith. Throughout 
 the game, the turmoil of Starkiller is shown, his disbelief in both sides of the Force and how 
 he goes on to ultimately form the Rebellion. 
  
  The story of the game is one of the best you could ever find in ANY game. It can put many movies 
 (some of them Star Wars themselves) to shame. It tells of Vader and his apprentice, Starkiller 
 and their ultimate plan to kill and overthrow the Emperor. But everything in the plot is not what 
 it seems to be...
  
  The story, throughout the game is presented through breathtakingly cinematic cutscenes, which are 
 highly reminiscant of the epic Star Wars movies. 
  
  Throughout the game, many revered themes of the Star Wars saga- The Duel of the Fates, The Imperial 
 March, The Skywalker Theme and many more- are very frequently heard. Even the background musics 
 which have been newly composed are so typically Star Wars, it feels as if you're playing one of 
 the movies.
  
  The Presentation of the game, as has been told before, is highly breathtaking and not any less 
 when compared to ANY Star Wars movie. The sound, the story and the presentation put together make 
 this game so breathtaking, you almost feel sad that the Fore Unleashed is nothing more than a game. 
 FU is so spectacular, that you want to see it in the form of a movie. You feel as if it was made 
 to be a movie.
  
  Also, the unlockables of this game are one of the strong points of the game. The costumes, the 
 light saber customization, the holocrons- they all add up to form another major part of the game.
 
  
  Now, lets move over to the cons of Star Wars: The Force Unleashed. The first glaring flaw is the 
 gameplay. Its very typical. Its good, yes, no doubt about that, but it offers nothing new. It offers 
 the button mashing thingy, which has been shamelessly ripped off from God of War. Then, it offers 
 the context sensitive battle system, which ultimately brings down the boss, but even that has been 
 ripped off entirely from God of War. And even these things dont feel as good as they should. Then, 
 there's the magic. Now, tell me, isn't magic a very old concept. Not that they shouldnt have put 
 it in. Its fun to use. 
  
  What I'm saying is that everything that is present in the gameplay should have been there. I have 
 nothing against them. But there should have been something else. Something new that would make 
 us want to say- "Oh Snap!"
  
  Then, we move on to the next, and the biggest, put off in the game. The graphics. The graphics 
 and the camera are the most glitchy graphics and camera you could ever find in a game, except for, 
 maybe, Burnout Legends on the DS. I was battling the Emperor, when suddenly the camera goes behind 
 my head and I'm seing through the point where my nose should be and I'm flying in the air with 
 triangular holes of black nothingness in the ground. 
  
  The graphics are not exactly bad, but its the glitches what makes them so horrifying. 
  
  My 
 final verdict is that Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is technically a highly pro-efficient game 
 with great sound quality, spectacular story and presentation and a funfilled gameplay engine but 
 the flaws of the game, like the glitchy graphics, might put you off. In short, for all hardcore 
 Star Wars fans and any other players who are looking for funfilled masterpieces, this game is as 
 good as perfect.
  
  Mey the Force be with you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desyple
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 29, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed was by far one of my most anticipated games of the year. Unfortunately 
 it didn't live up to the hype it had acclaimed. The main premise of the game is kicking ass with 
 the force, you are able to do this in a sense. While you are able to force push, and strike people 
 with your lightsaber its all very toned down due to linear levels and environments not as interactive 
 as they were said to be. I had somewhat mixed feelings when it came to the controls, because at 
 times they would flow well but the inaccurate targeting system for force powers and atrocious camera 
 made the game more annoying and frustrating than it had to be. The games saving grace is its incredible 
 story. Of course since its a star wars game its bound to have at least a little story but this 
 story was beautifully done and would have done great as a tie in movie by itself but of course 
 it had to be a game that was shipped out with too many flaws to be appreciated. One of the biggest 
 and most annoying gripes with this game is the constant glitches. It seems as though the publishers 
 released this game without doing a final run through of the game. There are multiple spots in the 
 game where you just get frozen in mid air or are in a pitfall and have no choice but to restart 
 your whole game and begin again from the last save. This can be very annoying quickly. Another 
 reason is that it seems as though the development team released an unfinished product at the final 
 level for your bonus objectives its says insert text here rather than having an objective. This 
 just seems sloppy. This game would have been amazing if it had not been for these small but plentiful 
 problems. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altair40
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 26, 2008 10:57 am PT
Review:  I'll say right off the bat this game is awesome! This single player game has one of the best storylines 
 i have seen in years and combat that leaves you speechless but minor hiccups stops it from acheiving 
 excellene. While the Ohmygod it's Star wars factor it ramped up through the roof the small things 
 that hurts the game over all brings it down a notch and reminds you it's just a game. You can live 
 out most of your sick jedi fantasies and the physics engine can make you feel nothing less than 
 a badass such as when you pull a star destroyer out of the sky or when you tottaly anhillate anything 
 small from Jawas to R2 droids. This game was a bit short for my liking but it still had me coming 
 back to it time and time again. If you like star wars or games in general this game deserves to 
 be in your ever growing collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_Dawn345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 16, 2008 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed 
  
  PROS: good story, very well done combat system which makes you have to use all of your abilities, 
 good sound affects and graphics, awesome protagonist (you can also change his costume and lightsaber 
 color to make him even more awesome) great level design 
  
  CONS: ABSOLUTELY NO REPLAY VALUE!!!! some minor bugs, boss fight tend to be the block attack block 
 attack style witch makes them boring and repetitive, only 7 hour campaign 
  
  SWFU is not at all a boring or poorly designed game, it just is only good for about two playthroughs. 
 If you are wondering if you should buy this game, don't, it is a waste of money on your part. I 
 would say rent it and expirience the fun that way because you will play it the same amount anyway. 
 Its to bad; if lucas arts would have added more replay value and a longer campaign this game would 
 be a must by and get at least a 9.0 review score. Hope this helped 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link66
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 15, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Im not going to completely right this game off, it is a good game and a ok way to kill a few hours 
 but its lacks the staying power to really make its worth the time. Lets just do a simple brake 
 down. 
  
  Pros:
  
  graphically solid but what else would you expect from lucas arts
  
  story line is strong and interesting, a i would have preferred to just watch it as a movie 
 
  
  you get to kill everything storm troopers rebels all of them plus theres a lot of items in the 
 game to toss at enemies 
  
  cons: 
  
  Way to linear there's nothing to figure out in this game its all point a to point b 
  
  its 
 boring all the missions are the same thing just a bit person to kill at the end 
  
  Force grab and through are a hard to to use and aiming in near impossible 
  
  but all in all 
 is ok at best i wouldn't buy it by any means but its a definite rent 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrunoMinswater
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 15, 2008 1:21 pm PT
Review:  I loved playing this game, all the abilities and combos are fun to use and pull off but the ending 
 and story are a pile of junk. I do not want to ruin it for anyone but I must let my anger out. 
 The ending is a total pile of crap ruins anything and everything that has to do with star wars. 
 Which actually makes me happy because I never really liked star wars that much anyway. :)
  
  This game was awesome to play other then one section which was just annoying. The part where 
 you pull down the star destroyer. Using force grip was a pain and I just generally ignored it for 
 lighting and push. Overall the game play was good and worth a rent. The game looks amazing as well. 
 The story line just makes me sick.
  
  If you are a fan of the star wars genre this game might really piss you off to be honest. The ending 
 just kind of cheapens the whole concept behind the rebellion and all that garbage. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ozporaz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 5:41 am PT
Review:  Yes, this game is more the just a good game. there is room for improvement, but never the less, it's 
 inspiring.
  
  The story gets the hold on you from the beginning and never let you off until the game end. telling 
 you what really happened between chapter III - ROTS and chapter IV - A NEW HOPE, and it's fascinating.
 
  
  Graphics is extraordinary and really is a treat to the eyes.
  
  The physics engine is allmost perfect, but i'm sure it's something only experience (with the PS3 
 hardware) will solve.
  
  Music is original STARWARS music. and the sound is very good. i love slashing my lightsabar in clean 
 air and hear the sound it makes.
  
  In conclusion this game is not an easy walk in the park. the difficulty level is more then the average 
 action game. you will die many times during the boss fights and will be forced to start the fight 
 all over again. add to thet- the game is NOT short at all. it brings you the ultimate StarWars game 
 you always wanted and never had the chance to play!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SePhIrOtH66
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 14, 2008 1:15 am PT
Review:  As with most of my reviews, there's a caveat concerning my numerical rating of the game. If you're 
 into the Star Wars saga, you really should stick it out till the end of The Force Unleashed. If 
 you take the "Good" ending, it does a dandy job of tying the two trilogies together (the "Evil" 
 ending, on the other hand, actually completely screws up the Star Wars universe, which was quite 
 disappointing) . The "Good" ending is probably the one you'll personally desire, anyway. The storyline 
 is great in and of itself, regardless of whether or not the rest of Star Wars existed. You'll enjoy 
 the story, even if not every moment of the gameplay is to your liking.
  
  So, for Star Wars: The Force Unleashed, you play the role of Starkiller, the apprentice to the 
 infamous Darth Vader. Early in Starkiller's life, Vader tricked him and took him in with the promise 
 of revenge agains the Galactic Empire. I won't spoil more than that. Throughout the game, you'll 
 do various missions for Vader, which include slaying Jedi remnants, sabotaging Imperial factories, 
 and other things you might expect a professional assassin to be sent to do.
  
  Let's talk about the game's technical aspects:
  
  Graphics:
  It's a little disappointing 
 that the space ships back in the '70s looked more realistic than the ones in this game do, despite 
 the incredible power contained in the PS3, but that's not to say the visuals are bad; they're quite 
 good, actually. The real eye-candy comes in the form of your force powers, which look very nice. 
 However, the engine was apparently poorly designed because when a lot of stuff is happening, the 
 game can slow down considerably. The textures are of good quality and high resolution, and the 
 character models are just about on par with some of the industry's best, which is saying a lot 
 given the low-quality visuals that seem to plague our PS3 games these days. The animations are 
 a bit stiff, and everyone seems to have an odd bounce in their step that makes them seem a bit 
 like robots. I suppose for Darth Vader and Proxy it's acceptable, but for completely natural people 
 it's just weird. Plus, a lot of characters, especially Juno, seem to have a strange issue with 
 their two front teeth, in that they are shaped like this:
  |_/\_| (Sadly, that's not much of an exaggeration) . However, the facial animations are, for the 
 most part, great and believable. So other than the occasional frame-rate slow down, there really 
 isn't much to complain about here, for the PS3 version of the game.
  
  Sound:
  Well, let's face it: the Star Wars pool of sounds is completely awesome and never gets old. But 
 the old stuff can't possibly cover everything, especially where voice-acting is concerned. The 
 first thing any true Star Wars fan will notice is that Darth Vader is not voiced by the legendary 
 James Earl Jones; instead the black-clad sith is voiced by a man named Matt Sloan, an actor from 
 the popular "Chad Vader" series. Why the developers chose to do this is beyond me. However, Sloan 
 has performed Darth Vader's voice in previous works and has the role down pretty well. He manages 
 to not only mimmick Jones' voice, but also his unique accent. The other voice actors also do an 
 excellent job, and the cutscenes are truly enjoyable because of it. One thing you probably will 
 not realize right away is that Starkiller and Emperor Palpatine are both voiced by the same actor. 
 Talk about versatility. The difference between this Palpatine and the real one is about as miniscule 
 as the difference between Sloan's Vader and Jones'. However, one element of sound seems to be missing: 
 the crunching of bones and squishing of bodies that you would expect to accompany the collision 
 of a storm trooper and a wall at 65 mph. Sadly, you can barely hear the tiny thud you get instead. 
 This makes throwing people much less appealing.
  
  Controls:
  Herein lies The Force Unleashed's greatest weakness. The controls are mapped out well enough, but 
 they are incredibly, frustratingly unresponsive. It takes an unreasonable amount of time to go 
 from a non-blocking state to a blocking state, making blocking almost useless in a fierce battle. 
 If you're executing a combo, you MUST finish every attack of the combo before you can do anything 
 else, be it jump, block, use a power, or whatever. Also, there is a slight delay between input 
 and execution, which can become annoying at certain points when timing is critical to success or 
 even survival. You'll often find yourself having to stop attacking and stand still for a second 
 or two before the game will register that you're pressing R2 and want to pick something up. You'll 
 finish your combo, let go of all the buttons, then hold R2, but nothing will happen. You'll let 
 go, then press it again, and still nothing. On your third press, you finally pick it up. You aim 
 to throw it, but realize a trooper has just thrown a grenade at you. Well, you'd like to drop your 
 object and hop out of the way, wouldn't you? You might as well wait for the object to come fall 
 a ways before you get moving... oh no, it seems you've blown up. Pity. Oh, how about that homing 
 missile heading your way? Better dodge that. Damn, you've just pressed attack a second earlier! 
 Now you've got to attack first, then you can think about moving. Too late. Get the picture yet? 
 You'll be growling at your screen in no time, but chances are this will just be a major annoyance 
 rather than a game-breaking fault -- I still had no real problem beating the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  It's pretty standard as far as action games go: you can jump, attack, block, use abilities, 
 etc. You're one person against thralls of foes, as per usual, and for the little guys you can tear 
 them apart pretty easily. Unfortunately, instead of a real lightsaber, Starkiller was apparently 
 given one of the props from the movies: a stick that glows. You cannot cut through anything. In 
 the first level, there are some trees that can be broken, but beyond that you cannot even slice 
 the limbs from Storm Troopers. Enemies have no trouble blocking your blade with things that should 
 not conceivably be able to stop a lightsaber. Some enemies come equipped with Force shields, too, 
 which repells your Force powers, which makes no sense since regular Storm Troopers, should not, 
 by any means, have the ability to repel the powers of a Sith Apprentice, and there was never any 
 Force-harnessing technology in the Star Wars trilogies in the form seen here. You really do just 
 feel like a guy with a stick in most fights. To top it off, every boss is more powerful than you 
 and most of your Force powers will not work at all, and the rest of them will only occasionally 
 get through, and for minimal effect. Lightsaber combat against these foes is somehow not the alternative 
 solution, however, because they are usually not staggered by your blows and can simply ignore your 
 saber passing through their body and deliver a nice cut that sends you flying. In addition, about 
 half-way through the game you will begin to face regular enemies that are unnaffected by your best 
 Force powers. This game's original premise was to make you a powerful Force user that can devastate 
 his surroundings with awesome powers; instead, when playing this game, you feel more like a wimp 
 with some cool-looking, but harmless, pyrotechnic effects, even on the easiest difficulty setting.
 
  Oh, and lets not forget the timed-button-press segments that are running absolutely rampant through 
 our action games these days. Thankfully, The Force Unleashed does them right, and you probably 
 won't mind them, even though you'd rather they weren't there. Instead of hurting you and giving 
 your foes some health back when you fail, the animation simply (and very smoothly, mind you) resets 
 to the previous button checkpoint (which is usually the first button, but could be further) and 
 allows you to keep going, with no penalties. If you get it right the first time, however, you get 
 an experience bonus. Some of the weaker enemies will actually exit the button-press sequence and 
 make you hit them a time or two to start it again, but it still doesn't directly harm you to fail. 
 If you're going to include these horrible segments, do it like this.
  In summary, some of the enemies are unfair, you seem overly weak compared to pretty much anything 
 but regular Storm Troopers (which have actually learned how to aim in the last 30 years) , platforming 
 can get annoying and tedious with poor controls and aim-management, and it has timed button sequences 
 (thankfully not bad ones) . On the plus, wreaking havoc amongst weak foes can be enjoyable, and 
 there's nothing like pumping 600,000 volts of electricity through a Storm Trooper for a full 10 
 seconds and hearing him scream in agony, then tossing his body into a power generator to completely 
 annihilate it to relieve the stress caused by the last unfair battle.
  
  So, I think that about sums it up. Even though the actual gameplay is more of a chore than enjoyable, 
 the storyline is a great addition to the saga and it should definitely be played by any fan of 
 the series looking to bridge the gap (but make sure to go for the "Good" ending in that case) .
 
  
  Cheers! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbentonslaught
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2008 3:54 am PT
Review:  This game probably will go down in history as the best game ever! But some nit picky people can't 
 understand why it has glitches, but when I played through it I experienced few to NO glitches. 
 The graphics are great. The action is great. The story is pretty good. Some parts are frustrating 
 such as the part where you have to pull down a star destroyer, I spent hours! HOURS!!! Trying to 
 do that part. I really liked the costumes and different lightsaber colors, my two favorite costumes 
 would probably be the sith robe, which you find in Raxus Prime in a holocron, and the ceromonial 
 jedi robe which you get for beating the game. I didn't like the plot very much (those of you who 
 were hoping for a game where you were evil through and through would understand) . The attacks and 
 combos are really cool and sometimes rather cruel and violent, such as the ability to crush your 
 enemy against a steel bar, but I like that and the ability to level up gives you a light RPG experience. 
 So if you want any more information on the game message me on gamespot or buy the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saibot216
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 11, 2008 4:40 pm PT
Review:  So I was at a friends' house today, he had gotten Force Unleashed, a game the both of us were looking 
 forward to for a LONG time. He had told me how incredible it was when we were at school and I was 
 excited to go play it. So when I started playing I figured out how to move and all that. The first 
 thing that pissed me off was the camera. Good Lord. The right analog stick (PS3 version mind you) 
 controls the camera so if you neglect that analog stick the camera embeds itself in a near by pile 
 of rubble. Even worse is during the boss battles the camera stays in one position and you cannot 
 move it period and when you have a metal titan attacking you you have no idea where you are. Speaking 
 of not knowing where you are the lighting is so dark that I cannot see the main character or the 
 environments a flood light would help. Going back to boss battles, they drag on FOR-EVER. The first 
 boss battle I fought was on the scrap metal planet (or whatever it was) and I must've been playing 
 fighting that Jedi for about a good thirty minutes, then when you are about to kill him you get 
 the "God of War" button sequence finishing moves thing. After that thirty minute boss battle I 
 had my cheek resting in the palm of my hand while my right hand was preforming the button sequence. 
 Here's some B. S. for ya... kind of... in a boss battle I force pushed the boss off a ledge into 
 some deep ass pit no one would survive. I thought, awesome, that was an easy kill, but I was wrong, 
 the Jedi jumps back up onto the cliff unharmed, I pushed her off the cliff about three more times 
 and into another deep pit three more times. By the way, the main character does not seem like a 
 bad ass, he needs a scar across his eye and a deep gravely voice.
  But it's not all bad. The story is unique, the level design and puzzle solving is pretty cool too. 
 Except as I got further into the game I ended up avoiding almost every enemy, running past them, 
 to complete my main objective. Using the force to push open, pull open, and destroy doors was pretty 
 cool. Using the force to throw stormtroopers into other stormtroopers was friggin awesome. I also 
 got to throw turrets into stormtroopers and then force push the stormtrooper into a pit. That's 
 where the game excels, your options on how you want to kill someone. It's incredible. Another cool 
 thing about the game is that you can change your costume and lightsaber color any time you want 
 to.
  All in all, I'm disappointed. When I saw the Euphoria engine trailer and then the E3 trailer I 
 had high hopes/expectations for this game. Once I played it it just seemed to be Dynasty Warriors 
 with Jedi and Sith. One thing I wished they had done was composed their own music, I'm kind of 
 tired of hearing the same Star Wars scores recycled over and over again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_sageX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed helps fill the gap between Episode III and Episode IV. The game has 
 an engaging and epic story, awesome lightsaber combat and incredible force powers that will serve 
 to give the Star Wars saga a new flavour; however the game is a bit short, lacks a great deal of 
 content from other platforms and does suffers some technical issues.
  
  Story: A few years have passed since the conclusion of the clone wars. Darkness has spread across 
 the galaxy. Emperor Palpatine has succeeded in creating his Galactic Empire and has reached the 
 final stage of the great purge, and hopes to rid the galaxy of any resistance against the empire 
 as well as to finally and completely eradicate the Jedi knights for good.
  Emperial spies have located a Jedi in Kashyyke, Darth Vader, the emperor's new apprentice, was 
 sent there to locate and destroy the Jedi, who he senses has a strong connection to the force and 
 may be of threat.
  Darth Vader usefully located and destroyed the Jedi and discovered that the Jedi had a son with 
 incredible connections to the force, realizing this Darth Vader decided to take in the boy and 
 secretly trained him in the dark side of the force as his secret apprentice, in hopes of eventually 
 overthrowing the emperor with the boy's aid.
  
  Game design: The graphics on the PS3 version of the game looks incredibly detailed and crisped. 
 The environments are incredibly detailed in both vision and interaction; you will see trees or 
 other objects respond in the most realistic manner when on contact, characters are well detailed 
 with realistic motion, movement and reactions.
  You will start out the game as Darth Vader and will be going through a tutorial and it helps you 
 get into the controls, once you're done you will play the rest of the game as Darth Vader's secret 
 apprentice.
  What gives this game great credit is the story. Essentially being Star Wars Episode 3.5 the game 
 fills in the gap left between Episode III and Episode IV, the game could have even past out as 
 a block buster film and would have probably won a bunch of awards because the story is that good, 
 its got twists and a few surprises that you couldn't possibly see coming as well as memorable moments.
 
  The story is mission based so once you complete it you can go back and re-play missions to find 
 extra hidden goods such as new powers, costumes, lightsaber crystals, Art and movie galleries and 
 can attempt higher difficulty settings.
  
  Game play: You will take the role of Darth Vader's secret apprentice (a. k. a Starkiller) .
  Like 
 many jedis and siths, Starkiller is well capable of lightsaber combat, you will be hacking and 
 slashing through hoards of enemies and can learn new combos as you progress.
  The real meat of the game is the new over welling force powers.
  You can double jump, dash and 
 can use force push and force lightning. You can pick objects indicted by the targeting mark on 
 them and can throw them at otyher objects or enemies to deal some distant damage.
  Attributes and powers can be upgraded, you will also eventually learn combined force and lightsaber 
 techniques such as lightsaber throw, saber shock and more, which can also be upgraded as you progress 
 and they all look amazing as well as incredibly fun to perform.
  There are various enemies to deal with and some will need a few strategic tactics to deal with, 
 especially larger enemies. 
  When larger enemies or bosses reach the limit of their health a finishing move button sequence 
 will begin (like in God of War) and they are simply amazing to look at.
  
  Sound: Not all casts from the film return to portray their characters but the replacements still 
 do a fine job portraying them nonetheless, new casts were added for new characters and their dialogues 
 are well written giving you the feeling you are watching another Star Wars movie. 
  Music scores from the movie return as well as some exclusive to the game.
  Sound effects from 
 lightsaber whirl to the laser shots of TIE fighters are well added. 
  
  Star Wars the Force Unleashed is no doubt one of the greatest chapters of the Star Wars saga as 
 well as an important chapter that gave birth to key characters of A New Hope as well as helps further 
 understand Darth Vader's motives
  Lightsaber combat is enjoyable especially against other Jedis and overwhelming force powers really 
 makes you feel like you're unstoppable.
  However while game play mechanics and story were well thought out the game itself sometimes does 
 a bad job in delivering.
  While you can select different missions and access extra content most of them cannot get accessed 
 unless you start the missions, once you start the missions then you can access the content but 
 will have to wait on loading screens before you get to them which can be very irritating since 
 not only are some loading screens a bit long but cut scenes half way through cannot be skipped.
 
  Speaking of cut scenes there are some frequent glitches when in-game cut scenes are performed, 
 such as hearing a lightsaber activate after you actually see it active, though this only occurs 
 at sound effects and not voice dialogues, which is good but still a little irritating, there are 
 glitches sometimes during the game as well.
  Controls also seem to respond slowly, since Starkiller always seems to react a second after you 
 push the button, the reaction timing can be overcome with practice but can still be a burden at 
 the most critical moments.
  The game is also too linear, if it weren't for the combat system the game could have felt too repetitive 
 and straight forward.
  Another negative point is that the PS3 version does not include the other extra contents found 
 in other platforms, which is inexcusable seeing as the PS3 runs with blue-ray disks and could have 
 handle a lot of extra content, especially seeing as the game lacks any real re-play value, sure 
 the costumes and lightsaber colours are nice but they are not enough to motivate re-play.
  
  While technical issues and lack of content did pull the game to the dark side, Star Wars the 
 Force Unleashed is a great game that will definitely please Star Wars fans and perhaps those that 
 just recently took interest in Star Wars because of the block buster success of Episode III.
  The game may also feel a bit short with around 6 to 10 hors playing through the story and another 
 5 for the little extra content, which is why I would recommend a rental since the current prices 
 for the game are way too high for its value.
  Nonetheless, a great story as well as great game play should make this game worth your while.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gray_Wolf-13
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 10, 2008 5:49 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed was a really fun game. I mean any game where you can say that you 
 are truly evil, and prove it through your actions, is a game worth playing in my opinion. Your 
 force powers are strong and look great on the screen and battles range from "moderately difficult" 
 to "a monkey could beat this fight". The game had many great things about it... and as many or perhaps 
 more short comings.
  
  Like stated before the battles, at best, would become moderately difficult but not hard enough 
 to really require you to think out what you need to do to beat your opponents. In every boss fight 
 the only necessary power was force lightning. Using only that would be all you truly needed to 
 beat any boss.
  
  Another short coming was though you were offered a great deal of force powers the game didn't make 
 to so that you would HAVE to use certain ones to win fights. At best, you would use force grip 
 and force lightning constantly and use your other ones on a whim.
  
  And the story, though passable, wasn't as grand as I had hoped. It seems to me like this game was 
 just an attempt to make more money. It didn't offer you anything important to add to the Star Wars 
 series.
  
  Final Note: I'd rent this game first to make sure that it suits your taste. That way if you discover, 
 like I did, that it isn't worth the 60 dollars you're going to pay then at least you can say you 
 played it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 10, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  SO I just finished this game and I have some mixed feelings about it. 
  
  First the good part - the story itself was very interesting and really compelled me to continue 
 to play to see what would happen next. Although I think they took some liberties in the Star Wars 
 way of the universe to the point I felt like I was playing an arcade game at times. But that was 
 ok. Actually I kind of wished they put some more into the story, it was a little light now that 
 I think back about it. 
  
  And now the bad part, there was a few very frustrating gameplay elements that really held it back 
 from being great. 
  
  First was probably the horrible camera and lock on system. I hated how you had to make your guy 
 look in the right direction, and it was very twitchy if he would even be looking at the right thing. 
 Just horrible.
  
  Second was the controls were just bad and never felt right to me.
  
  Third was they WAY overdid the music. I mean we all love the Star Wars music, but it was horribly 
 arranged here, with the wrong music used over and over again - it just didn't fit the mood.
  
  Forth was the very inconsistent checkpoint save system. Sometimes you died and had to reply 
 way too much, and sometimes there was one checkpoint every minute. (I did like that it remembered 
 if you grabbed one of the treasure cubes and all those jedi points you earned were not lost when 
 retrying again)
  
  Fifth, I admit I had to put it into easy mode somewhere in the middle of the game or I was going 
 to quit. The difficulty was all over the board, and some parts were just way too hard on the normal 
 setting I was not having any fun and NOT getting that feeling that I was powerful force using dude. 
 At least they let you change the difficulty setting on the fly and not have to restart the game 
 all the way over.
  
  Sixth, the throwing force power was so hard to control, and you had to use it so often it was very 
 frustrating instead of fun to use.
  
  In Summary - If you like Star Wars and 3rd person shooters, you will have some fun with this and 
 worth it to see the story play out with some of your favorite characters.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 9, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  As an adult with a budget, I'm massively tired of paying sixty bucks for 7 hours of gameplay. 
 
  
  This one hurts a bit more, because I had high expectations of this one. 
  
  Being a Knights of the Old Republic fan, I was anxious to see a graphical and game mechanic overhaul.
 
  
  I got that... however.
  
  I was highly disappointed that the amount of gameplay was wittled down to such little time, and 
 customization of well... anything to note is practically non-existant. KOTOR was far superior in 
 terms of customizing, Force Unleashed superior game mechanics and force power utilization. If Lucas 
 Arts had somehow meshed these two qualities together, you'd probably have people talking about 
 a 9-10 game. Rather, you have a repetitive dungeon hack game disguised as Star Wars, with less 
 options than a standard dungeon hack.
  
  You can make your saber pretty colors- so long as you find the crystals. You can also add "power 
 up" crystals, but the difference is negligible. Same goes for costumes. That's pretty much all 
 they are: costumes. No implants, no blaster, no utility belts, no headgear... and only seven lousy 
 hours to beat it. Weak. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12534554
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 17, 2008 10:14 am PT
Review:  Ok then, The force unleashed for the ps3, i haven`t really had this game for that long but i`ve 
 had it long enough to write a review about it so, i might miss a few bits so let`s begin!
  
  Now i must say while there are bits that i don`t like, there are actually a lot of things in 
 this game i like. For example: I like the starting level, the game starts off really well.
  
  "Yeah, you play as darth vader!"
  
  That`s right text, and yes, i let text review the game 
 with me. Those of you who don`t remember text, refer back to my superman 64 review.
  
  So like text said, you play as darth vader. Is there a better way to start off a star wars game 
 than that?
  We don`t think so!!!
  
  Let me just quickly tell you about the plot: Darth Vader is hunting down one of the last of the 
 jedi, and just before he strikes down the jedi, he discovers the jedi`s son, who just so happens 
 to be strong in the force so he kidnaps the boy and trains him as his *dramatic silence* secret 
 apprentice!!! A very awsome plot!
  
  Now back to the mission with darth vader: By this point, me and text agree that the graphics are 
 very well done: everythings greatly detailed, the graphics are just awesome. And the sound... freaking 
 awesome!
  
  "One thing that bothers me (this is text by the way) about the darth vader level, is that once 
 you finish it, YOU CAN`T PLAY IT AGAIN WITHOUT STARTING A NEW GAME!!"
  
  Yeah, text is right, the fact that you can`t play this level again without starting a new game 
 bothers both of us to no end. I don`t know why they decided to do this but still, apart from that, 
 i think that this level was a great idea.
  
  "So, after you start the proper level 1, you are now playing as the aprentice who`s only known 
 through the game as starkiller, so we`ll refer to him as starkiller throughout the rest of the 
 review. You are once again hunting down a jedi but this time, the stormtroopers are now your enemies 
 and YOU ARE MUCH WEAKER NOW!!!"
  
  Yes, the only two force powers at that time are push and grip, the rest of the force powers you 
 earn as you advance through the game, also being able to upgrade them by leveling up. You level 
 up by killing enemies and the more "creative" you are with killing your enemies, the more force 
 points (the points used for leveling up) you earn. You know how much longer until you level up 
 by a little bar in between your health and force energy bar.
  
  "So once you finally level up, you get force spheres. These are used to increase your force abillities. 
 There are 3 types: Power spheres which increase the power of your force powers, Combo spheres which 
 give you more combos, and Talent spheres which give you increases to your health bar, e. t. c."
 
  
  There are also these glowing things laying around called holocrons. There are 2 sorts of holocrons, 
 one is the sith holocrons which give you temporary combat powerups, and jedi holocrons, which give 
 you permanent bonuses like costumes and other stuff. Now, there`s not really a point to collecting 
 the jedi holocrons on the PS3 version but ive heard that if you get them all on the 360 version, 
 you unlock an achievment. 
  
  "Once you get to the end, you fight the last boss. Ive personally notice that most of these bosses 
 are horribly cheap. They spam force powers against you constantly and they try all the other cheap 
 moves. Play it for a while and you`ll know what i mean."
  
  Once you get to level 2, which is Raxus prime, the game now gives you force lightning. The one 
 thing about it is that it is just so OVERPOWERED!!!! And once you level it up, you can just use 
 lightning to win the game! YOU WILL SPAM IT CONSTANTLY IN THIS GAME!!!! It is just so overpowered! 
 But apart from that, it`s ok.
  
  "Once you get to the end, the final boss is a drastic leap in difficulty over the last 2 bosses. 
 First time playing, it will catch you off guard completely! The only effective thing to use against 
 him is lightning. They make prety much evety single enemie in the game weak to this attack, so 
 thats prety much the reason why you will be spaming it a lot in this game."
  
  Once you get to level 3, you get force repulse which is one of the most usefull attacks in the 
 game as it clears out enemies which have surrounded them only problem is, YOU WON`T EVER BE HARDLY 
 USING IT BECAUSE YOU SPAM FORCE LIGHTNING SO F***ING MUCH!!!!!!!! Going through all the evels, 
 you get a choice of 2 endings, one is where you die but you start the rebellion and the bad ending 
 is where you kill vader and become the emperor`s new apprentice. Now it`s time to talk s***iness...
 
  
  There are many frustrating parts in this game but for me, the most frustrating part has got to 
 be the damm star destroyer sequence, where you have to pull a star destroyer out of the sky with 
 the force. Now, while that`s going on, there are tie fighters attacking you and the star destroyer 
 keeps moving itself. Why is the star destroyer repostitioning itelf such a problem? It`s because 
 you have to get it postitioned precisley before you can pull it down! If you want to understand 
 how frustrating this sequence is, let me put it to you like this: Imagine playing Super Mario Bros, 
 imagine that once you finish the first castle and rescue toad, not only does he tell you that the 
 princess is in another castle, but he also tells you to go back to the begining of the game, and 
 the only way to advance is via the warp zones, and picture this, imagine if all the warp zones 
 had been removed from their original spots and placed somewhere where you have to jump OVER THE 
 FLAG to get to the warp zones. It would drive you insane!
  
  And now let`s talk glitches and bugs: One of the most common bugs people complain about is the 
 defualt text bug. This is when the bonus objective reads defualt text and the force points and 
 holocrons don`t count towards their own bonus objectives, personally, this has never happend to 
 me, but ive heard that it`s something to do with the training room or costume changing, i don`t 
 know but still, i advise you save before you do one of those 2 things.
  
  "Another glitch is that sometimes the enemy AI becomes UNBELIVABLE RETARDED. They can just sit 
 in front of you ad do absolutly nothing at all!!!"
  
  There are also grapics glitches and even sometimes, the sound becomes so quiet, you can`t hear 
 jacks***! You can also get stuck in the walls! There are just so many glitches in this game that 
 it`s unbelivable!!!
  
  Overall, this game is OK, not the best game ever, and it`s certainly not the best star wars game 
 (that would belong to Jedi knight 2: jedi outcast) . Me and text agree that this game suffers from 
 one basic issue: this game was NOT READY TO BE RELEASHED!!!!!
  
  "Me and 12534554 both agree that you should rent it first to see if you like it, if you do, good 
 for you, if you don`t, stay away from it"
  
  Thats our review, we`re done, have a nice day everyone!
  
  Final score:
  
  graphics: 4/5
 
  
  Sound: 4/5
  
  Gameplay: 3/5
  
  Entertainment: 3/5
  
  Overall: 14/20
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: roonsta
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  Ok, so i just got this game last week and let me tell you the 7.5 gamespot has put on this game 
 may make you feel that Star Wars the Force Unleashed is a garbage game and isnt worth even trying. 
 However, you should think otherwise, because this game really does have alot of potential.
  
  Lucas Arts games picked a great plot and place to put it. They decided to give Darth Vader 
 a secret apprentice, a apprentice that NOBODY had ever known about. He managed to pick him up after 
 killing the apprentice's father. (By the way the apprentice's codename is STARKILLER, but i prefer 
 to call him appretice :) ) And trust me, the story is a killer and i still cant believe that you 
 can make a story even after completing a saga. Anyways, it is based between the VERY LONG period 
 of btwn Revenge of the Sith (3) and The New Hope (4) which was in fact a perfect place to put it. 
 So that's that, and now lets get to the gameplay.
  
  Yes, I do have to agree a little with gamespot, how the force is quite inaccurate and the story 
 can get a little boring, but there is far more positive in this game than bad. You can virtually 
 do everything in this game, but like all star wars games you have to earn it by leveling up, defeating 
 hard bosses, finding treasure, etc. You can upgrade your force powers using power spheres or whatever 
 they are called. Specific powers you can get better at are Stronger Lighting, Better Saber Throws 
 and even raise your STATS. The fighting is simply the best though, and this is why i reccomend 
 this game yo all of you, because it basically KICKS ASS. You can do so many combos in the game 
 and practice killing people in many differnet ways, it never gets old. You are one saber wielder 
 and seriously you can take on hundreds of people with JUST YOU! You can literally take tie fighters 
 from the sky and THROW THEM AT PEOPLE!! If that is not cool, then i cant really explain what is. 
 I have played alot of high class games and i can still tell you that for people that play games 
 that Gamespot rates 9-10, this game is great. If you like Star Wars, this game is for you.
  
  Ok but now here are the cons for people that are wondering. This game needs to be rented to 
 love and appreciate for the rest of your life, because trust me this game is short and has a VERY 
 LOW replayability factor, due to not many things happpening after the end. You can get an alternative 
 ending, but it kinda sucks that a great game can only be played once to be fun. But you can still 
 buy it and have fun, however wasting that money doesnt seem good wen you can just rent it. And 
 that is the only reason why i rate this game an 8.5, for slight glitches but mainly because theyre 
 is just nothing to do afterwards. I gotta say you will be satisfied for what they can do to a game. 
 The story is also phenomenal, but if you would like another con i would say that the ending can 
 be quite unsatisfying for people who wanted excitement, but not spoiling anything :P. Overall, 
 it is a great game and i highly recommend this to anybody that either loves star wars or wants 
 a hell of a blast of using the force, weather its picking up a jawa, or bringing down a Star Destroyer. 
 THANKS FOR READING :)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordInvernus
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 9:25 am PT
Review:  I waited in great anticipation for this game's release. I got it the day it came out (I don't get 
 a lot of games on release day) and I played it right away. My overall thought on the game is.... ehhh... it's 
 okay. The concept definitely had potential but I think the execution.. well, wasn't so good. Being 
 able to play as Darth Vader in the first level against Wookies is actually fun (I hate Wookies) . 
 When it comes to game play there are tons of combos and moves but one doesn't seem to do be that 
 different from the other in most cases. I don't like the boss fights with the "follow the button 
 sequences". To me that takes away from the fun of defeating some of the enemies. Granted, I haven't 
 played the whole game so maybe there will be parts that get better but I doubt it. The best part 
 of the game though is the story and the story is probably what will make me care about getting 
 through it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2008 3:19 am PT
Review:  Once you begin with vader pounding around the 1st level, chewing up troops and wookies with ease, 
 it becomes apparent this could be dissapointing. However the remainder of the game offers so much 
 more depth and fluidity which i feel has yet to be matched. It feels and plays like you are the 
 sith apprentice with varying control and awesome powers. Watching troopers fly past you and slam 
 into a wall, or off the edge of a platform never gets boring!! With so much variety in which to 
 end the lives of pretty much everything around you, in so many satisfying and in a true sith "go 
 over there and stay there" fashion. It looks true to star wars from different planets to other 
 enemies such as the at st, with the ability to vastly change your appearance, lightsaber and forces. 
 There is an upgrading system for your talents and weapons, which plays an incredible, immersive 
 part of your role, increasing your power and strengths along the way. This isnt easy and I found 
 myself yearning for the next power so I can mop the floor with various troops and driods! There's 
 a certain quality and polish to most lucas arts games, the force unleashed delivers this with its 
 rich colours, star wars epic looks, speed of gameplay, and notibly the awesome physics engine. 
 It keeps you itching to become the sith you wanted to be when you were about 6 years old and provides 
 you with hours of fun (unless you watched spiderman!!) , you will find yourself wanting to show 
 friends how you destroy troops in so many ways. I can highly recommend this game if you are a fan 
 of star wars, even if your not you will just adore the god like power you have over everything 
 else in your path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joel_c17
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 4, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed was a game that I was really thinking about buying when i first saw 
 the previews/reviews however im pretty happy that i didnt. 
  
  Not because the game is 'bad' but because i finished it in one day after i hired it out from Blockbuster. 
 
  
  As far as the visuals of the game go it is very easy on the eye with some of the backgrounds of 
 the planets looking very nice, however there are some graphical glitches in the game.
  
  Im not sure if they have released a patch for the game yet (this was the first ps3 game i have 
 rented since i bought my ps3 2 weeks ago) and i dont have the internet however the game does seem 
 to have some bugs that can make the fighting annoying and frustrating. 
  
  The gameplay in the game is really fun with the physics engine working really well. I never got 
 tired of throwing parts of the environment into my enemies however this area of the game can be 
 difficult with some annoying camera issues. There are many combos to learn that are original and 
 fun and the leveling up is also a cool touch. 
  
  The story is really compelling and it really gets you into the game.
  
  In conclusion i think 
 that if this game was longer and had a little more variety put into the gameplay i think that the 
 game could have been great. However as it is the bugs and the repetitiveness limits it to just 
 being a Renter. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekchic1985
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 4, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  Ever since Star Wars: The Force Unleashed was announced, the title alone [and the connection to 
 Star Wars] was enough to persuade me to place this game at the very top of my wish list. As more 
 and more information was released about the game [Euphoria and Digital Molecular Matter] I was 
 drawn further and further into the concept the game claimed to offer. Despite set back after set 
 back with regards to the release date, the time finally came when the game was playable... albeit 
 only through a demo. The demo was more than enough to confirm all of my preconceived thoughts about 
 the game. Force Grip, Force Push and even Force Lightening straight off the bat! Combine the three 
 abilities a those poor Stormtroopers and Rebel Alliance didn't know what hit them. Finally, taking 
 down an AT-ST at the end of the demo concreted my desire to purchase the game upon release.
  
  Release date comes around, copy in hand I run back home to load the game and then... mild disappointment 
 if I was to be completely honest. Although the fact that you could play as Darth Vader for the 
 opening level was altogether fun in itself, as soon as you transfer to Starkiller [stupid name 
 in my opinion] you are suddenly left at a ridiculous handicap in relation to your force abilities. 
 In the demo, to offer the player a feel for what is available through the game, all force powers 
 are unlocked and a considerable amount of combos are unlocked for your disposal. However, nothing 
 is ever that simple in the world of videogames and as such you have to earn your right to fry "innocent" 
 victims throughout the game. This in itself left me feeling slightly deflated and took the edge 
 off of my initial excitement. However, progression through the game unlocks Force Abilities as 
 well as the potential to unlock upgrades and combo moves that in fact make the game that much more 
 enjoyable to play. When playing the game through for a second time, you are then able to use all 
 of your previously acquired skills straight away and have even more fun as you burn through the 
 early levels.
  
  The physics engines that made the game such a central talking point during development were that 
 of the Euphoria Engine and Digital Molecular Media. However... the two do not fully deliver. The 
 Euphoric Engine does indeed make the AI act in a manner that would suggest survival, but only if 
 you manage to pull of the moves in a manner that suits the engine. A Stormtrooper will only grab 
 onto a fellow Stormtrooper or piece of scenery if the circumstances are permitting. Otherwise you 
 could be left navigating the poor fellow through a Force Grip induced joyride trying to coax him 
 into lifting up a comrade ready for joint torture. Digital Molecular Media also falls short of 
 the mark. Although a somewhat larger improvement from the previous system of breaking background 
 materials, the engine can do with a few tweaks and developments until it is at a point to be considered 
 truly realistic. Another point of concern with myself was that the there were not enough objects 
 that could benefit from the DMM Engine, with only barriers and certain objects that benefit the 
 story being able to utilise the effects of the revolutionary engine.
  
  Other concerns for me included the somewhat temperamental targeting system using the Force. I found 
 myself extremely frustrated when I was facing something I wished to pick up and throw at an advancing 
 wave of AI, only to have the main character spin around and randomly target something behind me, 
 leaving my back open to attack and the potential of death. Death however, is easy to avoid and 
 usually only occurs when missing a jump as enemies drop enough health replenishment to keep you 
 through the game.
  
  Despite my picky flaws in the game [not to mention some of the ropey Plot Holes when compared to 
 the movies] Star Wars: The Force Unleashed turned out to be an excellent game once all of the moves 
 were accessible to the player. The developers always aimed to engage the player's imagination when 
 "unleashing" the Force and they most certainly succeeded in doing just that. The replay value is 
 enough for me to lay through the game a few more times [especially with the choice of two endings] 
 although the game in itself is rather short. DLC has been announced however, with rumours of "character 
 skins" and supposedly another level or two. However, if you simply want to play this game through 
 from start to finish, it could be achieved in a weekend and as such may be worth a rental to save 
 on the high costs of purchasing.
  
  All in all, an enjoyable game that leaves you wishing that you had a high enough midi-chlorian 
 count to utilise the moves offered. A must have for all fans of the Star Wars Saga.
  
  Nic. x 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wsic
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2008 11:21 pm PT
Review:  This game rocks, with its action/role-playing game-play. I originally purchased the PSP version 
 and really liked the combos and powers that could be used, so I purchased the Ps3 version. The 
 enhanced graphics, better powers and combos, along with more throw-able objects, perfected the 
 Jedi experience. This game has an excellent story, customizable sabers, and different costumes 
 that expand the enjoyability. Overall this game was beyond all that I expected it to be, it was 
 so great I had to buy it twice. For everyone that overly examines the star wars story, this game 
 totally fills in the gaps that may exist. It shows the beginning of the rebellion and the secret 
 life of Vader's powerful apprentice. If I could change one thing about this game I would make it 
 longer, or I would give it an open world map like most RPGs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattsnibbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 3, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  There is no denying that SW: TFU is a short game and it will never be regarded as a true classic.
 
  
  Having placed these caveats on the beginning this is one of the better, if not the best games ever 
 produced from a movie franchise.
  
  For starters the opening chapter, is basically bad a**, where you get to play as Darth Vader which 
 has all force power maxed out, although it is a little disappointing getting into the story proper 
 and staring with a much less powerful Starkiller at your disposal.
  
  The game is a graphical masterpiece and is a faithful reproduction of locations seen in the movies. 
 Felucia and the junk moon (whose name escapes me at the moment) are specifically beautiful in their 
 own way.
  
  The combat can feel a little clunky at times and the targeting system is not as precise as it needs 
 to be, this doesn't change the fact that some of the moves that can be pulled off are cool. There 
 is some further issues when you find yourself in tight spaces once again with the targeting system. 
 On the plus side freezing enemies in Carbonite is extremely satisfying, and the combos are really 
 cool, as mentioned earlier.
  
  There is an alternative ending that is not terrible and is pretty cool to see but you'd be better 
 off saving and reloading rather than play through twice.
  
  The characters are all interesting and some old favorites appear, and it fills in the creation 
 of the Rebel Alliance which for Star Wars fans make this a must play.
  
  The game has very little incentive to play through more than once, the collectibles are not really 
 that good that you feel you have to get them all and while it is good you can have maxed out stats 
 once you have played through once is a nice touch but one that is fairly redundant when all is 
 said and done.
  
  This game will not win any awards, but it is a truly great franchise game and one of the best Star 
 Wars games. If Lucas Arts can make more games like this the Star Wars universe is in good hands. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Starmonkey98
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 2, 2008 6:47 am PT
Review:  star wars battlefront 2 was my favorite star wars game but this game made me think differently! 
 I mean what is more fun then picking up random stormtroopers and throwing them all over the place. 
 Or going up to insurgents and using force push on them. But my favorite thing is to use force punt 
 on the little jawas LOL! But it just depends on what you like I mean you could always use your 
 lightsaber but what fun is that? I mean why use your lightsaber when you could just throw people 
 around. I mean come on! Well you still are probably wondering if you should get this game and the 
 answer is HECK YES if you like star wars and you also like picking up random people and throwing 
 them around like rag dolls!
  
  WHAT ARE YOU DOING GO AND GET THE GAME RIGHT NOW AT GAMESTOP IT IS TOTALLY AWESOME!
  
  -StarMonkey98 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claverleykid
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 2, 2008 1:58 am PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed is a very fun game. And thats really it, fun but not awesome or a 
 must play. Lets be honest, when this game was anounced. I wasn't excited because it looked like 
 a sci-fi'ish God of War with a bit of Devil May cry. No, instead I was pumped because it was star 
 wars and I would get to play as a sith. And when I learned I was going to play as Vader for one 
 level I went nuts in excitment. What I'm trying to say is that this game is really only for the 
 star wars fan like myself. My freinds love god of War and DMC4 but hate star wars so even though 
 this game is similar they weren't going to buy it. On to the review.
  
  Pros= Better story than the last trilogy. Force gameplay works really well. All enviroments are 
 cool and fun to look at. Good power up system.
  
  Cons= A bit buggy, ( the game actually didn't crash on me.) Lots of slow down when alot of action 
 is on the screen. Difficulty is uneven. I played it in normal and some parts were easier than others. 
 Force targeting takes some getting used to. Boss battles are just plain bad.
  
  Overall= Must play for the star wars fan.
  
  check out my blog!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 11:06 am PT
Review:  I had so much anticipation in this game. i in fact have never played a star wars game before. i 
 had great asperations in this one and i was entertained, not blown away, but i enjoyed it.
  
  it si a 3rd person 'shooter' but you have a lightsaber which is great. i believe that there 
 was an excellent job in the combo mechanics and the way the enemies intereacted, but i felt the 
 game was unfinished or rushed. it crashed on me a few times. 
  
  the combos and story were awesome, the story was short with a weird ending. i liked looking for 
 extras like crystal for the saber and holocrons to unlock things that required a good eye and ingenuity 
 to reach them, but the loading times were frustrating and the 'leveling' system was flawed. not 
 much depth to this at all. 
  
  i will play it again to unlock all the goodies, but it is unlikely i will pick it up again untile 
 the add-ons come with the costumes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeterTheGeek
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 5:19 am PT
Review:  I found this game to be very frustrating to play. Quite often I ended up fighting, just guessing 
 where the enemy was because they were off the screen. Quite often I was off screen at the time 
 as well. Other time, like when fighting the bosses, the view port was fixed. This often meant that 
 I was of in a very far land and could see anything again, I was just a few pixels at that point. 
 The view port would be under my control some of the time and then grabbed from you just so to frustrate 
 me even more.
  
  The other aspect that drove me nuts was the targeting system. It was so touchy, tiring to target 
 an enemy that was standing right in front of you was very frustrating as well. I don't know how 
 many times I got hit at point blank range because the force lighting missed it's intended target.
 
  
  I still liked the game but the frustrations were a major distraction. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrVenture333x2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 29, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  While venturing through this game I had many conflicting feelings at many different times. The 
 game starts off with a bang. You playing as Lord Vader. You have full control of his signature 
 powers, with an emphasis on control. The control over your powers is one of the game's strongest 
 features. It may be a tad repetitive, but it never seems to get truly boring throwing a helpless 
 droid into a stormtrooper. There are some locking problems that get annoying, but they do not detract 
 from the experience too much.
  Soon you will be playing as The Apprentice and the story will unfold. The story itself never falters. 
 Any true Star Wars fan should at least play through this game once. It is a tale that provides 
 a relevant and interesting if not bleak back story that fits nicely in between episodes three and 
 four. The characters are very well thought out and engrossing. The Apprentice himself acts almost 
 as an anti-Luke. What Luke would have been had he joined Vader. His supporting cast acts as a nice 
 compliment to The Apprentice, in one way or another. Do not forget that you are Lord Vader's apprentice. 
 
  You level up your character using spheres you either gain from experience, find scattered around 
 levels, or obtain from completing optional tasks. It will not take too long for you to unlock all 
 your powers and start increasing their strength, as well as your own. Some powers like grip and 
 lightning will be used ad-nausea, while others will hardly be used at all. 
  Like the later force powers you unlock, the later levels can sometimes feel lazy. While you will 
 encounter new enemies some are used over and over again. Furthermore, the boss I had the most difficult 
 time with came in the third level. Later bosses were easy and susceptible to attacks that did not 
 match their profiles. For example, there is a later boss that who blocks almost every attack you 
 throw at him, yet is able to be picked up and thrown like a rag doll. 
  The game is known to have a few bugs, and although I experienced none of them early on, as I progressed 
 farther into the game I hit a couple of small bumps. I was stuck under a "log" of some sort and 
 had to restart at the last auto save point. Not really much more than a small headache. The second 
 bug I experienced was a strange one. The final boss character stood still for an entire "round" 
 of fighting. Although I was happy to get some hits in, it still kind of irked me. 
  All in all this is a pretty cool game. I had a great time playing it, and a great time looking 
 at it. Visually this game is top notch. Whether you decide to purchase this game really depends 
 on how much of a Star Wars fan you are, but I think even those new to the galaxy can have a good 
 time using these force powers. It's at least worth a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: belwyrm
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2008 6:19 pm PT
Review:  "May the force be with you!" My do those words bring back memories. Memories of feelings you get 
 watching the epic battles between the Rebellion and the Empire, and even memories of the more recent 
 great combat sequences between the Jedi and the Sith of the newer movies. But never has a video 
 game found a way to express the sheer power of the Force.
  
  Until now. The Force Unleashed finds a way to take all that power you saw from the movies, and 
 condense it into your controller. 
  
  I've been looking forward to this game since I saw the preview showing the Apprentice pulling down 
 a Star Destroyer.
  
  The gameplay is definitely the game's strong point. The controls are easy to navigate and allow 
 quick access to all of your force powers. It's very rewarding to pick up squealing stormtroopers 
 and casually drop them over the edge of a walkway, or to simply cut your way threw them with your 
 lightsaber, or to fry them with force lightning, or to do one of the other excessively cool force 
 powers to send them to their demise. The boss battles are fun and engaging, though they get a little 
 bit easy once you figure out their weaknesses.
  
  The story is excellent, filling in the gap between episode 3 and episode 4. It fits smoothly into 
 the Star Wars lore, and allows for more. The characters are well developed, except for your pilot, 
 who seems thrown in just as a love interest.
  
  The audio is excellent fare, what you expect from a Lucas Arts project, nothing to comment on there.
 
  
  The game is severely lacking in the graphics department however. While a lot of the scenery looks 
 good from afar, upon closer inspection it's blocky and tears easily. Several times I found myself 
 falling through nothing and had to reboot. Your character will stand inside of walls, and there's 
 quite a bit of slowdown on some of the busier battles.
  
  The lock on system also could have been a bit better. It seemed to randomly lock on to stuff I'm 
 not looking at, and occasionally not lock on to something I am looking at. I found the larger the 
 object was, the harder it was to lock onto.
  
  Overall, however, the gameplay more than lives up to my expectations, and makes this well worth 
 a try, you might find yourself wanting to go back again and again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 28, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  The Force unleashed (TFU) has been on many gamer's wish lists since the beggining of this generation 
 of consoles, be it because of its revolutionary technology or simply since its the next chapter 
 in the starwars saga.
  
  For one reason or the other, gamers will be bittersweetly happy with the game, since more could 
 have come from it.
  
  The story is set in the interval between both film trilogies. Surprisingly the plot is solid and 
 really does advance the star wars lore, and characters are very interesting to say the least, However, 
 these feel like assets wasted, since the game, that will probably last you less than eight hours 
 is over before the story has a chance to really go full throttle and the characters develop deeper 
 meaning. One might say that if so much was achieved in terms of story in so little time, perhaps 
 with some more time we would have movie material in our hands.
  
  The player controls Darth Vader's secret apprentice on a quest to hunt the last of the jedi, however 
 some very interestig plot twists occur and, as usual on a Star Wars game, there are two alternative 
 endings.
  
  The gameplay is actually very simple, its a combination of hack and slash with very rewarding to 
 master combos, and some mild platforming. Kills earn you experience to purchase new abbilities 
 to tackle the constantly more powerfull enemies. Boss fights are mostly handled with quick-time 
 events, but they are well used in this game.
  Difficulty however is quite discrepant, with sections that are nothing but a cakewalk, and others 
 that will test any player's stomach for frustration. There are some physics based puzzles, but 
 saddly the best ones are side affairs to obtain bonuses, while there are some really bad ones mandatory 
 for level progression.
  
  However, what really makes TFU the game it is are the technologies fuelling the action.
  
  
 Euphoria, debuted in GTA4 makes the characters' animations and reactions lifelike and dynamic, 
 while Digital Molecular Matter makes objects behave like their real life counterparts. Throw in 
 Havok physics as well and we have a specacular and unique physics based playground for our battles.
 
  
  As soon as the apprentice begins unleashing his force abbilities chaos ensues and these technologies 
 really make that chaos come to life. However, it is to note that most objects are not coded with 
 DMM what is a letdown after all the tech demos, in fact some objects don't have physics at all, 
 what just goes to show that the game's design was too ambitious.
  
  Also, controls are a bit clunky at first, but by the second playthrough any player should have 
 the controls nailed by then, eliminating the initial frustration.
  
  In terms of presentation, graphics are solid even if not groundbraking, and the art direction is 
 simply lavish in some occasions. However, for some strange reason, the levels in the planet Felucia 
 look way worse than the rest of the game, with much worse textures and lighting, sometimes its 
 almost like it isn't even the same game...
  
  Sound is a collection of SFX and music from star wars as we know it, along with some new stuff 
 that fits perfectly, including the original TFU theme. What I mean is, it's GOOD.
  
  All in all, the physics and simulation systems along with fun to master combat make the game very 
 entertaining and rewarding, however gameplay tends to become repetitive and there are some technical 
 issues here and there mainly because the game is debuting many aspects of its technology and it 
 shows. 
  
  However, since the technology will only improve from here on, I have faith that this great game 
 will eventually spawn an epic sequel that will really finally use these systems to their fullest 
 and provides a Star Wars experience like no other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akivaria
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 7:43 pm PT
Review:  **SLIGHT SPOILER WARNING**
  
  It has been some time since I enjoyed a game as much as Star Wars: The Force Unleashed. Many of 
 us have dreamt after these movies of being a high-flying warrior of the Force, and this game puts 
 you the Force entirely in your hands.
  
  It is simply amazing what this game lets you do. I can't wait for a sequel. On top of that, it 
 was nice to finally be able to mess with Jawas and Wookiees. :)
  
  
  
  
  THE GOOD!
  
  -Graphics
  -Engrossing Story
  -Interactive Cinematics
  -Destructive Environments
  -Awesome 
 Level Design
  -Varied Enemies / Challenges
  -Playable Darth Vader
  -Replayability
  -Several Difficulty Levels
  -Pick on Jawas and Wookiees
  -Multiple End Bosses - You Choose.
 
  -The Sound is Magnificent
  
  THE BAD!
  
  -Targeting
  -For Some, Illogical Story. (Though I disagree with this personally)
  -Seriously, that's it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: async
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2008 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Force Unleashed looks fabulous on my 100" 1080p screen. The cutscenes are clear and gorgeous, and 
 even the gameplay graphics are amazingly strong.
  
  I have two quibbles about the game: One, the save/load/continue functionality is not all it could 
 be; in many cases, the amount you have to replay through when reloading, since it doesn't capture 
 the exact state, is significant. If you get the urge to experiment by trying to jump big gaps, 
 or do a fight in a weird way, you may find yourself holding back because reloads are inconvenient.
 
  
  Secondarily, there is definitely something to the criticism of the targeting system, and I think 
 part of this is that while the camera tracks to a chase camera over time, it isn't adjustable, 
 and it wasn't aggressive enough realigning for my tastes. Aside from that, the system occasionally 
 - but not often - grabs something you did not intend, although it can be more likely with more 
 things around.
  
  Aside from those issues, however, I felt the game glowed with fun and polish. Even after 10 hours 
 of play, even having to return to the start of a level did not feel old, because it's hard to not 
 enjoy thrashing your way through enemies with the combination of physical attacks and combos, and 
 eye popping force manipulation.
  
  Incredibly fun game. I got it as a rental due to mixed reviews and quibbles about replay value 
 from friends, but I think I will almost certainly get a copy to keep. Like Star Wars: Jedi Knight 
 II, this has become, in my mind, the quintessential interactive Star Wars experience. I hope they 
 use the engine to produce more content, because this was a blast. The story felt robust and so 
 it didn't feel "short", although I finished in about 10-12 hours of play time, but I wanted to 
 play it again almost immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cod4dude101
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 26, 2008 10:04 am PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed is the best star wars game yet, is filled with non-stop action. This 
 game has great game play and has awesome graphics. If you have a ps3 or 360, its a must buy. One 
 of the only things I found wrong with the game is that the single player is way to short. If you 
 sit down and play it non stop you can probably beat it within 4-6 hours. Also when you are trying 
 to throw someone or something or you are using electricity, the power works the way star killer 
 (the character you are playing as ) is facing and not the camera. This could become annoying at 
 times but the game still is great. At the end of the game when you choose to be the light or dark 
 side, the light side is WAY more easy to beat then the dark side. This could be kind of annoying 
 to those who chose the dark side and have to take about 1 hour or so to beat the final boss compared 
 to those who choose the light side and take 5 minutes to beat the boss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tokiolui77
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 25, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  i really had fun with this game at first the powers of the force are really fun and simple to use. 
 just lousy targeting wich really hinders gameplay. the story is really intresting and kept me 2 
 the end unlike the movies wich im praying to come to an ending. this game was really fun beat quick, 
 rent it first though and if u think its worth finishing more than once get it. lots of unlockanles 
 and costumes would probably make u wnat to play it until u find them all or u can just use cheats. 
 they should make a movie on this and it would be way better than any other star wars movie, ation 
 packed twisted turns and simple.
  the gameplay is fun if it werent for the frustrating targeting wich is a battle on its own, some 
 annoying sound effects would also get on anyones nerves the graphics are amazing in hd.
  the combos are fun and cool to watch and use some levels are fun and amazing to look at.
  darth 
 vaders intro level is pretty lackluster comparing to the apprentice levels.
  great voice acting and a very intresting story of the birth of the rebellion is what really kept 
 me intrested and i hate star wars movies, so rent it first then decide if u still want to buy it.
 
  hope my review helps all of u... and dont miss my next review to the highly anticipated LITTLE 
 BIG PLANET.
  until then read my reviews and check my blogs
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stickyfingers87
Rating: 4
Date: Oct 25, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game the day it came out and I was so excited. I put the disc in. Waited 10 minutes 
 for it to load. I got screwed, and ripped off. I would`t even play the second level. I haven`t 
 played the game since September 16. There are 3 game modes. New Game, Load Game, and Continue Game. 
 Now, the story was extremely well put together. It was a 10 Story but Negative 6 for game play. 
 If you have to play this game steal it or as a last resort Rent it. But god forbid don`t make the 
 same mistake I did and Buy it. Complete waste of Time and Money. But then again a lot of games 
 these days have Great Story's but horrible game play and execution. I would never think of selling 
 this game for 69.99 I would sell it for $3 if not free. So in conclusion... Stick to the Movies. 
 Cause this would have made an excellent Animated Movie with just the Cinematic`s alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kelpish
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 24, 2008 7:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must play for star wars fans. But do your self a favor and don't go out and spend 
 $65 dollars on it. It is only worth the $10 it costs to rent it. It only has about 20 hours of 
 solid game play and about 2-5 hours of replay ability. The amazing use of the force transforms 
 the game entirely. It take the game from mediocre to good. The AI is flawless and there are few 
 glitches in the game what so ever. The ability to send storm troopers and other enemies soaring 
 through the air is priceless. You can throw them at each other or just chuck them off the edge. 
 The combos in the game are very entertaining and unlike some games, are fairly easy to manage. 
 The ability to choose you costume and light saber adds a customization aspect to the game that 
 is not seen in many star wars games other than Knights of the Old Republic. I would have gives 
 this game a 10+ if the story carried on a little further and I don't want to ruin the ending, but 
 your fate in the end is anything but desirable. Great game, play it, rent it, enjoy it, just don't 
 buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 23, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Introduction
  
  This game has gotten a lot of hype, even a launch centre from Gamespot, which to me is a bit surprising. 
 I suppose that given the new Force mechanics, this is the game Star Wars fans have been waiting 
 for. I guess the Star Wars name still carries a lot of weight. Not being a big Star Wars fan, but 
 rather being one who simply finds it enjoyable from time to time, let's see how this game fares 
 with me. In otherwards, the tilt is at a minimum here.
  
  The Pros
  
  Indeed, a lot of attention has been put into the Force here, moreso than any other game. There 
 are tons of lightsaber combos and moves to be learned, the force blast has a really cool looking 
 ripple effect, and lightning can be used more than in perhaps any other Star Wars game to date. 
 
  
  At it's best, it truly is satisfying. Charging up a force blast and watching the screen drain of 
 color before unleashing a hellish hadouken is magnificent. Running into a horde of storm troopers 
 and killing them all with one scatering of lightning or simply tossing men and wreckage this way 
 and that with the Force grip is truly satisfying. More satisfying still is when you're able to 
 use all of these abilities in tandem. Force blast through a door, shock three storm troopers, and 
 toss the last one over the edge of a cliff all in the space of 5 seconds. Tell that that isn't 
 cool.
  
  With all this talk of tossing people around, special mention must be made of the physics in this 
 game. It's hard to believe that this game was made using the standard Havok engine, considering 
 how good it is. Tossing and lifting things feels as it should, and despite there being so many 
 things flying through the air at some points, the engine never hiccups. Things never get stuck 
 in the air and they never disappear. Tossed items are slow on the incline and fast on the decline. 
 The physics are a beautiful thing in this game. It makes using the force grip so enjoyable, that 
 you may find it to be your preferred weapon. It's just so much fun tossing guy's over balcony's 
 simply to see how far they'll fly. 
  
  Special mention must also be made of the your character's dash/side-step. You'll actually WANT 
 to dash, perhaps more than necessary. It simply feels Force-y. I don't know if i've ever seen a 
 cooler dash in any game. It truly makes you feel empowered and invincible with it's satisfying 
 "woosh" noise and blurring/rippling of the air around you. Oh, and you can air-dash as well.
  
  The same goes for how you're character jumps. Instead of standard jumps, the game has placed 
 a moment of delay after each jump, giving a brief portion of a second where it feels like you're 
 floating. In other words, it's apparent that you're jumping with the force, Jedi-style. Granted, 
 veterans of platformers will have to get used to this. Indeed, I did mistime some jumps at first, 
 but once you're acclimatized, it's a cinch.
  
  The lightsaber combos are nothing to write home about, but are more than serviceable, as are the 
 boss fights. While it is sadly true that you can get through the game lightsaber-wise simply by 
 hammering the attack button and using no other combo, there are options available to spice things 
 up. Being able to infuse your lightsaber with lightning mid combo adds flavor and looks great. 
 Air combos however, in my experience, are difficult to pull off and utterly unnecessary, which 
 is unfortunate. Also, lightsaber combos have a nasty tendency to keep going when you don't want 
 them to as well as pushing your character forward, which means that until you get used to things, 
 expect your combos to carry you right off edges.
  
  The graphics are overall pretty solid. Your character looks great and generally speaking, so do 
 the environments. Felucia's organic setting deserves special mention. It's also great seeing steel 
 doors deform under the power of the force, as is seeing the forest on either side of you ripple 
 when you summon a blast, as though the game world had been hit with a strong gust of wind. It's 
 a decent looking game with a good set of character models, boss-wise and with regards to your character, 
 the environments look good and react well to your powers.
  
  Lastly, as a Star Wars game, the story is actually pretty good. Considering the overall brevity 
 of the cutscenes as well as the shortness of the game itself, many of the characters are enjoyable. 
 Your main character, stupid name aside (Starkiller? Really?) is relatable and likable in a plot 
 that could have easily led to him being a mopey whiner. Your robot buddy Proxy is also great fun. 
 It's a good story for a game simply because it's your standard Star Wars tale. That said, that 
 level of quality is pretty good as far as games go.
  
  
  The Cons
  
  This game is loaded with cheap deaths. When I say cheap deaths, I don't mean deaths where the game 
 is simply difficult and in need of being mastered. Rather, I mean that it feels as though you are 
 fighting the game itself. By that I mean, rather than fighting obstacles or the enemy, you are 
 fighting poor development, poor design, and poor quality assurance. 
  
  Time and again, you will fall dead due to bugs. Twice, I have been shot dead while stuck in the 
 opening between two doors I had blasted open with the Force. I have been killed by larger enemies, 
 Purge Troopers notably, who simply would not lose that last sliver of health regardless of how 
 hard I pounded them. Worst of all, I have been struck dead by things that I dodged that didn't 
 even come close to hitting me. 
  
  For example, in the Shaak Ti boss fight, three times a tentacle would be coming down on top of 
 me. I dodge. Tentacle slaps the ground three feet away from my character. I take damage/die. Another 
 example. I'm hiding around a corner. A purge trooper shoots and I dodge. The shot hits the wall 
 two feet to the right of my character, even leaving a burn mark where it hits. I take the damage 
 and fall dead. Right.
  
  That's the thing too. I said I was 'hiding' around a corner. That doesn't sound very "Force Unleashed" 
 to me. Hiding around a corner and leaninig out to take quick lightning potshots? Really? Well, 
 the thing is, with brutally damaging and annoying long range troops such as the afore mentioned 
 Purge Troopers and their loads of health and homing missiles or the ever irritating Scout Trooper 
 snipers, if you try to play it "Unleashed," you'll die. Single enemies, notably the Purge Trooper, 
 also have a nasty ability to attack just fast enough so that once you're hit, they'll hit you several 
 more times before you can get up. This is the same with many of the bosses. This is doubly bad 
 if you're assaulted by several EVO troopers and, God help you, get hit with a stun shot. Chances 
 are, you'll get hit with several stun shots in a row, totally helpless as your character slowly 
 dies.
  
  Compounding this all, is of course the much discussed problem of so many enemies being "force immune." 
 For a game that is so "unleashed," it sure is very interested in limiting and tethering the very 
 thing it says it's unleashing. Long Range troops, weird bugs, and force immune troopers mean cowardly, 
 cagey gameplay.
  
  The other major problem that cannot be stated enough is the AWFUL targetting in this game. Theoretically, 
 you automatically target the nearest object, though sometimes the targetting system doesn't even 
 seem to obey this rule. This is obviously a problem, particularly because you're stuck with what 
 the game automatically targets for you and you can manually move around among viable targets. The 
 only way to do that is to move your actual character around, exposing yourself to gunfire, hoping 
 that eventually you'll "automatically" target what you wanted to. Cheap deaths here I go! So many 
 times your character will end up targetting the hell out of an innocuous rock three feet away, 
 ignoring the guy in front of you whose blasting you in the face. Joy.
  
  A few more minor grievances. The menu system and interface looks ugly, cheap, and budget and could've 
 used more work. Worse still, the game has a lot of loading. Even moving from the pause menu to 
 your stat allocation screen requires loading. Of course, moving back out of your stat allocation 
 screen requires more loading. Want to change your lightsaber color? Takes more loading to get there 
 too. Outside of basic options, pretty much anywhere you'd want to go on the menu/interface requires 
 loading. Come on.
  
  The game also does experience a little bit of slowdown here and there. Also, some of the enemy 
 character models seem unimpressive, lacking detail or texture. It's really strange and stands out 
 quite a bit considering how everything else looks pretty nice. 
  
  The Force Unleashed is also a short game without much replay value. It's around ten hours, maybe 
 less. There's no multiplayer to speak of. I suppose you might want to play through the game again 
 to get the second ending, but beyond that, I can't see any reason to replay it again. What's worse 
 is that even in such a short game, three of the levels get re-used. Granted, the levels appear 
 much altered and you don't go to the EXACT same locations, but it's still disappointing.
  
  Finally, special mention must be made of the famed Star Destroyer section. This might be possibly 
 one of the worst portions I've ever played in a major release. It is unfun, boring, and totally 
 unlike the rest of the game. It is also totally riddled with bugs. The directions are incorrect, 
 the prompts to pull down the Destroyer vanish, and worse still, you can only move left and right. 
 The problem with that, is that if you're caught in a blast, you'll still be knocked back, leaving 
 the game totally confused as to what to do with your character now that you're no longer on that 
 "left right" plane. Chances are, you'll end up sliding off the edge to your death or locked in 
 place until you're shot dead. Did anyone even playtest this section? What makes it worse is that 
 pullind down the star destroyer was supposed to be a flagship moment for this game. What an anti-climax.
 
  
  
  The Conclusion
  
  It has a good story, it looks pretty good, and it does things with the Force that no other game 
 has done. Given this, it CAN be fun despite also often being an exercise in frustration. Given 
 this, I totally recommend giving this game a rent. That said, given the game's bugs, little replay 
 value, and it's often sloppy gameplay, I would not, under any circumstancs, recommend purchasing 
 this game full priced or even budget priced. Anything more than 20 bucks probably isn't even worth 
 considering, even if you're a Star Wars megafan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Razorblade-616
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 21, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The answer to the question is yes the force is strong with this one. you take the role of Starkiller, 
 Darth Vaders secret apprentice as u hunt down a few of the last remaining jedi as Vaders personal 
 assasin but thats not all the dark lord has planned for you....
  
  GAMEPLAY - The gameplay is pretty much self explained from the start, you can use the force so 
 kill all enemies in the most crazy way u can imagine being it throwing them into a wall, sucking 
 them into space, or just impaling them with your lightsaber. The game uses 3 physics engines: Euphoria 
 for realistic AI behavior Havok to create body physics and DMM to create highly realistic destructible 
 environments. The use of the 3 physics engines create a recipe for destruction of great fun. Your 
 character has a range of abilities including force push lightning and grip but your main ability 
 is wielding a lightsaber to slash (however not to pieces) your enemies and it is very fun punting 
 a helpless jawa.
  
  STORY - The story really good in the sense it keeps within the star wars universe that fans of 
 .the series can really identify. Theres action, adventure, mystery, love and betrayal how ever 
 its a shame the story couldn't have been longer because once you complete the 5 or so hour adventure 
 it feels too short and leaving you wanting more.
  
  GRAPHICS - The game is stunning to look at environments truly feel they belong to the star wars 
 universe such as the forests of Kasshyk to the jungles of Felucia, it is just stunning to look 
 at that fans of the saga can appreciate.
  
  SOUND - the sound are just great staying true to the star wars sounds we are used to such as blaster 
 fire, tie fighter sounds lightsabers collisions and even Vaders breathing, the music is also great 
 most of the soundtrack is from the six movies with a few additions to the mix its bring even more 
 star wars style to the gameplay.
  
  The Force Unleashed is a great game with a great story a lot of fun and easy to pick up whether 
 your a fan of the series or not however the game is pretty short so u probably won't get anymore 
 than a day or two of gameplay but if your a fan of the star wars saga this is a must have. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: verbalsuspect
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  Excellent looking game with addictive, fun gameplay (ignoring the camera and targeting glitches) . 
 The story within this game is better than Episodes I, II and III. The review I read was, I thought, 
 a little hard on this game. That reviewer covered the typical imperfections that exist in many 
 action games - camera angles get screwy in tight spaces (which could be severely helped by allowing 
 the camera to penetrate and see-through certain areas) and selective targeting glitches. But beyond 
 the flaws, it's basically been since Return of the Jedi since I felt the magic of Star Wars that 
 I had hoped the previously mentioned episodes would spark in me. They didn't. This game does. Outstanding 
 backgrounds and action, challenges that don't leave me forced to read a reference book to get past, 
 IMHO almost perfect. Just wish I could get these PS3 games for $30 instead of $60. I'm almost done 
 playing the game completely through the story and I plan on unlocking all of the codes I've found 
 for the second run through. Definitely deserving of multiple play-throughs. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzysquash
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 19, 2008 5:12 am PT
Review:  I have to admit up front, I've never been a huge "Star Wars" fan. But when I first saw the trailer 
 for "Star Wars: The Force Unleashed," I was pumped. The prospect of harnessing and wielding the 
 power of the Force first-hand as opposed to watching it in action from the theatre seat strongly 
 drew my interest.
  
  For the most part, "The Force Unleashed" delivers. Fry your opponents with lightning, blast them 
 sky high with force push, or crush them with environmental objects -- the choice is yours. As Darth 
 Vader's Sith apprentice Starkiller, you are able to cause all sorts of chaos with the power of 
 the Dark Side. As you level up, more options for Force abilities and light saber combinations open 
 up, providing a surprisingly deep combat system that rewards creativity.
  
  What's more, all of Starkiller's moves look positively badass, so much of the fun for me was trying 
 out new abilities as I acquired them. Enemies are quite varied as well, and provide an increasingly 
 tougher challenge as the game progresses. Gameplay-wise, the highlights of game are the epic clashes 
 against Jedi bosses, who give you a little taste of what it feels like to be on the receiving end 
 of the Force. That just makes the final sequence of each fight all the more satisfying, all of 
 which invariably end with a QTE sequence a la "God of War."
  
  Visually, "Force Unleashed" is a stunner, though a few backgrounds between different levels are 
 somewhat repetitive. Overall though, the environmental designs strongly reflect the aesthetic of 
 the films, allowing you to feel what it would be like to be inside the world of "Star Wars" for 
 yourself. Combine that with the Havok physics engine and stellar special effects, and you have 
 a genuinely immersive visual experience.
  
  More impressive to me was the story of the game and the impressive cinematics. Lucas Arts takes 
 some bold steps with the tale of "The Force Unleashed," and yet still manages to fit it snugly 
 within the saga's broader mythos. The characters are also well-depicted in both motion-capture 
 and voice acting. Together, the storyline and character portrayals offer some genuinely powerful 
 moments, with cutscenes that sometimes rival their original source material in visual splendor.
 
  
  Critics of the game are right that it isn't perfect. The AI can be plain dumb sometimes, and there 
 are a few gameplay sequences that are cumbersomely designed. Also, my game froze in the middle 
 of a boss fight once, and for brief periods on other occasions. But these gripes aside, Lucas Art's 
 latest endeavor is a compelling "Star Wars" experience that delivers on its original promise to 
 make the player feel like a complete and total Force-wielding badass. Combined with a strong narrative 
 and endearing leading characters, there's a lot more to love than hate about "The Force Unleashed." 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy45
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This is one of the worst star wars game that I've ever played. While the graphics are amazing, 
 and the storyline coudln't be better, these cosmetic things are crushed under the disapointing 
 gameplay, and lackluster level design. The game has a total of 9 levels and no multiplayer of any 
 kind, either online or against a friend. This game has the graphics, storyline, and development 
 team to be something amazing, but with it's lame hack-and-slash gameplay, lack of multiplayer, 
 and droll combat and leveling system, it will always be a video game instead of an engrossing Stars 
 Wars experience. If you are someone who doesn't care about the gameplay of a video game, and just 
 enjoys the artwork then I recommend this game, because the graphics as I mentioned above are unbelieveable 
 but sadly LucasArts couldn't work up the gameplay to match it. I guess it just goes to show that 
 everyone wins some and loses some, and this is LucasArts first loss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magoga
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 17, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  Lets start with negatives... the targeting system for throwing objects sucks really bad. Its hard 
 to pick up and then nearly impossible to throw where you want to, because you pretty much have 
 to be facing your target at a fairly close range to hit anything. Some parts of the game are a 
 bit frusterating, especially the third boss fight on the junkyard planet and the DAMN PURGE TROOPERS!!! 
 Other than that, the game is pretty good. I was surprised by the visuals, which were amazing, and 
 the character models. Facial expressions were done really well during cutscenes. Also, killing 
 stuff with your lightsaber and force powers is a lot of fun. Since there are a large number of 
 available combos, killing stuff in the most brutal ways provides for much enjoyment. The story 
 is also pretty interesting, although I got lost in it a few times. Its cool to see a Star Wars 
 game that is able to fit itself in the movies and be pretty good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfriend
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:31 am PT
Review:  i didnt think this game was gonna be any good but i was surprisling wrong i loved every boss battle 
 and the button swquences was awsome with the fighting scenes the lighting looked, sound, and brightness 
 and color was so kool of the lighting and the diffrent color of sabers and crystal balls that was 
 interesting i like all the costumes i think that what next gen is all about farcry2 is gonna be 
 my next game in a few days im gonna own it i think thats gonna take place of alot of games i loved 
 it i couldnt stop playing this game after darth mauls board i wished i couldve played alot more 
 boards with darth mald or who ever he is darth vader yea? lol j/k yall i played it until i beat 
 didnt really go to sleep of this game it a really koo game if your a big fan of star wars i suggest 
 you get it i likd it and im not a fan of star wars 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspman45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:40 pm PT
Review:  the game begins with you playing as Darth Vader invading the wookie homeworld. thats when i thought 
 OH NO I BOUGHT THE WRONG GAME! but then the second level begins by introducing the Apprentice (Galen 
 Marek) and Juno Eclipse. the game goes on showing me the true extent of the force. but i still think 
 it is way more fun to punt jawas than force push them. after a number of jedi executions, the game 
 showed me what it was about. the storytelling after the battle with Shakk ti was most interesting. 
 (it was also then where i figured ou that you could throw your lightsaber like a homing missile 
 which is so beastly. also i would like to say that the physics engine's great detail caused myu 
 opponents to have some pretty hilarious deaths (for example, one time i took a stormtrooper, impaled 
 him with my lightsaber, electrocuted him, whamed him against the wall, and finally, held him in 
 the way of a passing TIE fighter) also, the graphics and textures of the game are out of this world. 
 whoever had the idea of pushing my PS3 that hard should get a man of the year award. it was also 
 impressively long due to the fact that i wen looking for every unlockable (which i'm probable doing 
 now) i would also like to point out that this game is very good at relieving stress as does every 
 game where you can kill everything and not die . if you have the money, BUY THIS AMAZING  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rralph971
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 16, 2008 2:39 pm PT
Review:  One of the most anticipated game of 2008. i use to dream of one being able to play a star wars 
 game like that, can't wait to see the next one of its kind! it was amazing and very addictive. 
 BTW Vader, you suck haha! the storyline is very innovative, for a mystery of what happen between 
 episode 3 and 4 , it couldn't have been done better, especially with such a remarkable character 
 as star killer. a couple of problems with positioning the camera , but besides that, i think this 
 game was well prepared and was worth waiting for and of course it is definitely a most buy to add 
 to one's collection. i am not a very big fan of the previous star wars games, the only one i played 
 before was the knights of the old republic, but this one has no other game that can compare to 
 it. the game it self runs with no problem and keeps more and more action coming your way the more 
 you get into it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stillereize
Rating: 2.5
Date: Oct 15, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  When have you ever seen Darth Vader jump in the air or even fathom a situation where he has to? 
 My many faults with the game are summed up as this: if you enjoyed episodes 1-3 then youll like 
 this game. If your the 70's and 80's fan of star wars where george lucas hasn't gone off the deep 
 end, crazy, lunatic, then you'll despise this game for making you kill wookies who have incredible 
 spiderman jumping abilities?! I feel this game was made for stupid people by stupid people? Aren't 
 lightsabers supposed to kill and yet Darth Vader is seen anointing his stolen apprentice by tapping 
 him on both shoulders with his lightsaber? Im sorry but I dont play Star Wars to be some faceless 
 dude with hormone problems. How trite this game can get depends on how far you can play this game 
 without crying FOUL!!!!! Horribly disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: szokone
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 4:19 am PT
Review:  As I said in topic: This game simply isn't finished. The story is flat. As I play it on My ps3 
 i've experienced lots of framerates drops, and bugs. This one time the boss who I was fighting 
 with just went down throughout the floor and never came back. Another thing thats I didin, t like 
 are the controls... it's almost imposible to grab item that U want. Combos are cheap and boring. 
 Visuals (and locations) are really great and i've enjoy them. But this framerates drops couple 
 of times freezed my ps3 for a second or more. Jedi knight 2 was much more beter experience for 
 Me. No trophys support. I think that this game is badly converted from the x360 and it was not 
 developed for the ps3 hardware thats why it has so wasted potential. Without a doubt exclusive 
 games for ps3 are much better than ones thats are on the x360 to. Sorry for my english. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FullmetalFreak7
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 12, 2008 6:11 pm PT
Review:  Overall, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a good game. Its not outstanding, but its not horrible 
 either. Though there are some key components that should have had more work done before the release. 
 However, the game is fun to play, though only for a short time.
  
  Graphics:
  I believe that The Force Unleashed does not live up to next generation graphics. The level backgrounds 
 look marvelous, but it is the human graphics that need work. They are very life-like, but at the 
 same time leaves the player looking at them oddly like something is wrong with them. During gameplay 
 it is not distracting, during cut scenes however it is extremely distracting. However the scenes 
 around the characters are very well done.
  
  Sound:
  I thought the sound was excellent. Hearing the Star Wars sound track gives the game the Star Wars 
 feel. However, I am a little disappointed that an original sound track was not used. I felt the 
 voice actors did a fairly good job. I believe their voices matched up well with their characters, 
 and there was not an overly annoying voice.
  
  Gameplay:
  Gameplay is alright. Its not excellent, nor is it a total failure. A lot of the fighting is button 
 mashing, but the combination of Force moves provided interesting and unique visuals. The camera 
 system during the fighting needs a lot of work. During boss battles, you are unable to rotate the 
 camera to get a better view of the field, and at times you have a hard time seeing yourself and 
 the enemies around you. Boss battles were fun and each held their own difficulty, but no one boss 
 will leave you stuck for days trying to desperately beat them. The level themselves are of a good 
 size, but going back to previous levels to do different missions is a mistake I believe. Through 
 out the entire Star Wars universe, the player could have at least visited over star systems. Because 
 of this, there are only a handful of levels and in turn makes the game short. 
  
  Storyline:
  The story is a rather interesting one. Even though the player already knew the outcome 
 of their player (that is if they have watched the movies) , but seeing how to get to that outcome 
 was a fun one to play trough and experience. One disappointing aspect is that the player does not 
 grow attached to the characters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drkcrusher
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 12, 2008 1:08 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: TFU is a great game that delivers alot of what it promises. The first run through the 
 game its hard to put down. The force powers are very fresh and new feeling while still familiar 
 from other games such as Jedi Knight, JK2 and JK Academy.
  
  The major change here is the strength of the force while the other games lived up to your expectations 
 of how the force should feel this game really steps that up a notch or two.
  
  If your a big star wars fan such as myself you should defiantly pick it up for no other reason 
 than just filling in the story between episode 3 and 4 the story will not disappoint and it is 
 very consistent with the Star Wars universe unlike games such as Star Wars Galaxies which falls 
 VERY short of fitting in.
  
  The first time through you feel you could be more powerful, like you should pickup 4 storm troopers 
 at a time and slam them all into a wall or over a cliff but they saved this for the replay.
  
  One good solid replay is about all you will want to play, levels like Felucia and the Junkyard 
 (Raux Prime?) are very claustrophobic, its hard to find ALL the holocrons the 1st or 2nd time through 
 and they can feel more like a grind than anything. But the boss battles at the end are VERY fulfilling 
 and fun. Its really worth the grinds for the lightsaber duels at the ends of those levels.
  
  That being said, you will have a TON of fun running or walking through the gorgeous levels 
 while storm troopers and others try to shoot at you to no avail until your close enough to slice 
 them or harm their wonderful little intelligent euphoria AI bodies in a myriad of different ways.
 
  
  The lightsaber moves/combos at times do feel more like button mashing than any sort of strategy 
 or method although there are few exceptions. So really its major focus is on the force powers and 
 their combos.
  
  All in all a great game, however with KOTOR and KOTOR 2 we all are expecting WAYYYY more story 
 and a much deeper involved game with much more customization. Story length and customization on 
 JK, JK2 and JKA were far superior. If you have missed the JK and KOTOR series you missed something 
 truly special in this genre.
  
  In summary: this is a Star Wars fan MUST HAVE, great 3rd person slasher, good feel, flawed targeting 
 system BIGTIME but not enough to make you put it down, too short and I had Star Wars Universe consistency 
 problems with the sith ending. One good solid replay here. If you don't collect SW games rent it.
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fareru
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  "Oh my," I found myself thinking when I first had a glimpse of Star Wars: Force Unleashed when 
 it was first announced at E3, sorry for not remembering the year. I found myself drooling over 
 the graphics, admiring the intelligent AI, or so we were promised, and loving the idea of having 
 full control over the force and effecting your environment. All these things should be enough except 
 I didn't know exactly what kind of game it would be...
  Well, imagine my surprise when launch day arrives. I gleefully run to my nearest Blockbuster video 
 store and I buy the highly anticipated title, ready to battle some sith and save the galaxy... 
 again.
  I get home, I boot up the good ol' PS3 and I remove Metal Gear Solid 4 from the disc vacuum, for 
 the first time all summer, and I slide in the new Star Wars title.
  I laugh at the introductory animation as the little Lucas Arts man plays with lightsabers and lightening, 
 I begin to get giddy when I hear the title menu music begin. I practically wet myself when the 
 classic Star Wars intro theme bursts into full chorus and those classic yellow letters scroll up 
 my screen.
  And then I'm playing. Oh how good it feels to start off as the Dark Lord of the Sith... who is 
 really slow. But, none the less, the imperial march sets me off as I kill wookies and storm troopers 
 alike, I'm not a stickler for details, and I reach a Jedi boss fight.
  Problem #1: Boss fights. Why... I only just started the game, why is this guy kicking my ass so 
 hard? It might be my fault for picking 'Normal' instead of Easy, but if the ass whooping I just 
 got is any indication of Hard, then I don't think I'll even attempt that one. Why did I suck so 
 bad? Well, one thing, it is really difficult to aim your force attacks when the camera is locked 
 in position, also when your character is all black and it can sometimes be tricky to see what direction 
 he is facing especially with explosions going on and the enemy attacking you. (Of course I later 
 found out there was a lock on button but I didn't know that for this fight and thus I had an issue.)
 
  So I finish that first "level" of the game rather satisfied. I moved on to the second level... 
 which was a lot like the first except I was significantly weaker since I was now "Starkiller" (Which 
 was a brilliant use of a name that was deemed unusable the first time it was suggested) . So, most 
 of the level was pretty easy, nothing really bothersome about the game thus far. I beat it, it 
 was fun. Then I beat level two, which struck a huge resemblance to the first level... and then 
 level three... and then level four... and so on. By this point I was getting pretty bored. Because, 
 and here is my biggest problem with this game, it is a linear action game. There is no open exploration, 
 there is no world (or galactic) map. It drops you in a level, you kill the bad guys, you kill the 
 boss, rinse and repeat.
  The boss fights are all the same, force push them over, hit them a few times, get in a saber/force 
 lock, win, they die, you hit a button sequence, congrats you did it! It can get very, very, very 
 boring. Just like most linear action games.
  The levelling up system is nothing new either, you get your points, you spend them, you get a new 
 combo that you'll probably never use.
  Now, I've been rather harsh on the game but there are some highlights. I did enjoy tossing around 
 storm troopers with the force, into one another, into my lightsaber, into the flame barriers.
 
  
  I gave this game a 6/10 because, while I had some problems with the controls and the tedious boss 
 fights the sections of the game where you're just running and slashing can be very fun and there 
 are some parts of the game that are just plain awesome. It's not totally bad, but it isn't anything 
 special.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sh4yo
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  It's been a while since an action adventure Star Wars game has been published, one that allowed 
 you to take the role of a Jedi warrior or a Sith in particular, so when developers announced Star 
 Wars: The Force Unleashed with amazing footage and trailers, the hype was reasonable. Although 
 with the release and some initial reviews the game has earned a somewhat average rating from the 
 public. All is not so dark as it may seem.
  
  The story takes you between Episode Three and Episode Four and places you in the role of Starkiller, 
 Darth Vader's secret apprentice. The story itself has many plot twists and has a more deeper development 
 than the prequel trilogy. It deals a fairly large amount of impact on the original Trilogy, however 
 it doesn't really support the "unleashed" part of the game's title along with the gameplay. The 
 initial description of the game's character, Darth Vader's secret apprentice, doesn't fit with 
 into what the character develops later on in the game.
  
  The gameplay is a mixture of simple hack'n'slash mechanics entwined with force powers. With your 
 lightsaber and your force powers you make a fairly large amount of combos that deal damage to your 
 enemies. These can be purchased and upgraded. The whole system is quite similar to the God Of War 
 fight system, but less refined and deep. In the initial game stages when you don't have a lot of 
 combos purchased the gameplay is rather tedious and repetitive, although that can also be said 
 for the rest of the game, but the satisfaction factor overshadows it. Manipulation of the force 
 is very well executed if you get used to the fact that what Starkiller faces, that's what Starkiller 
 grips. The force grip mechanic is well developed and with the in-game engines the AI behavior to 
 it is always fun to watch. In the initial levels when you don't have so many ways to kill your 
 enemies, and with the fact of a level having two enemy types maximum, the game gets rather annoying 
 than making you enjoying and praising unleashing of the force as it does in the later levels, where 
 enemies are far more diverse and you have many more combos to unleash upon them. The fact that 
 the first third of the game is tedious is even more amplified by the fact that overall the game 
 is short. Six or eight hours, depends on the way you dispose your enemies or devote yourself into 
 finding secrets across levels. But the last levels will give Star Wars fans sufficient action they've 
 been waiting for through the game. The bosses in the game are all very fun to play against and 
 will force you to include different tactics in order to defeat them, although it still is mostly 
 straight forward attacks that finish them off.
  
  From a graphic standpoint the game is superbly modeled. You are placed into very imaginative and 
 very well detailed in the Star Wars universe. There are a lot of environmental objects that you 
 can use as a weapon to launch towards your enemies, doors and gates that you can break open with 
 your force push and other objects that you can bend with you force powers in order to advance in 
 the level. There are certain glitches with the terrain, as reported by people, I myself luckily 
 didn't encounter any. The cut-scenes and character models are rendered very nicely and deliver 
 a realistic touch with their feelings and expressions. The sound has probably always been the strongest 
 builder in Star Wars games and it delivers this time as well. Orchestral themes that are already 
 familiar with the franchise are played at the right time, although there are certain moments where 
 you could desire a rather more explosive song to be played when fighting certain bosses.
  
  Other than the main story there isn't much to do with the game after you finish it. You are given 
 the option of playing the game again and again, with the level you finished the game, in order 
 to collect special items that unlock saber colors and costumes, but that's all that the game has 
 to offer. Multiplayer would be very much welcome or other features that were included into other 
 systems, such as the Duel Mode from the PSP. The game doesn't have a strong replay value or any 
 other reason you should stick to it after you beat it.
  
  So, is the force fully unleashed with Star Wars: The Force Unleashed? It depends on how much of 
 a Star Wars fan you are that allows the gamer part of you to neglect some design flaws and average 
 gameplay mechanics. If you are a Star Wars fan you will enjoy this game and you probably will give 
 it another go after you finished it and visit some certain levels. The force powers, manipulation 
 of the force on your enemies and saber combat do create a solid Star Wars game that should be at 
 least rented for the average gamer and a plausible must buy for the Star Wars fan.
  
  -Shayo 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nathanrules13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 7:56 am PT
Review:  Its a very good game, it was kinda hard to say how easy or hard was because all my powers and abilities 
 are maxed out so i said just right. Everyone was talking about how bad the targeting is and this 
 is just my opinion, it wasn't as bad as it sounded like it was going to be. I also LOVE how they 
 brought back some characters (SPOILER if you haven't seen the game yet) like when PROXY turns into 
 Obi-Wan and Darth Maul. I think the only thing i would have changed is the length of the game and 
 the ability to change your hilt like the Wii version. The graphics are amazing, the attacks are 
 sweet, and the finishers are mind blowing! Probably the second best star wars RPG out there (KOTOR1 
 and 2 are still the best) . Overall the game was just fun and couldn't put it down until i beat 
 it. This game is definitely worth buying, SO BUY IT!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patapon250
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  We all know that star wars was one incredible creation. And most of us loved it. Star Wars the 
 force unleashed in in between episodes 3 and 4, and it shows that Darth Vader was planning to take 
 over the empire. The story is good, and the visuals are too, yet the frame rate struggles to look 
 good in the smaller areas. The big areas are the ones with a good frame rate. The force grip is 
 a nice feature, yet again, it has the fault of forcing things you don't want to force. Plus, you 
 don't force in the way the camera is facing, you force in the way Star Killer (your character) is 
 facing. The last thing is that a boss called the bull rancor is glitched. Sometimes, it won't show 
 it's life bar and it will be invincible, sometimes not. But some of the good things are the awesome 
 combos you can do, the ability to mangle your enemies with awesome moves that look extremely painful, 
 and the fact that it is just plain fun destroying bad guys. 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bhwsegfygrbyfgg
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  First of all I would like to say that I have waited for this game since it has been announce a 
 long time ago and it didn't disappoint me at all (I dont think 7.5 is a good rating for this game) . 
 
  
  This game has perfectly captured and mastered the way you use the force in any other Star Wars 
 game, hence the name 'Force Unleashed', and with a combo system that isn't too shabby, you could 
 literally play through the game without worrying about MOST of the combat. Well THAT'S it. MOST. 
 As you all who have played this game know, that there were some points in the game where you would 
 feel a little frustrated because you couldn't throw a storm trooper into the wall, or get up quickly 
 enough to get away from that bull rancor that's been chasing after you for quite some time. 
  
  GAMEPLAY:
  
  The force grip system was flawless except for some incidents where you would 
 grab some one and magically have him drop down when you want to have his face planted on the wall. 
 The melee combat in this game though can be a little frustrating. You would find that Starkillers' 
 movements in the game would be a bit slow, for example, when you get knocked down, you would take 
 a while for him to get back up before you start slicing away with your lightsabre again. 
  
  The thing I found interesting about this game though is the combo system that allowed you to 
 combine both lightsabre and force attacks all in one attack, and as well as the sith sien combo 
 (those who know this, you know what I'm talking about) that made this could really fun to experiment 
 and play around with.
  
  In terms on how hard this game was, I'd say it was all kin of easy; except for the Purge Troopers. 
 I HATE Purge Troopers. Those of you that have played this game know how annoying a Purge Trooper 
 is. The games length though I wasn't too fond of. The game was really too short. One minute I'm 
 at Felucia and the next I'm at The Death Star kicking Vader's ass. 
  
  GRAPHICS:
  
  The moment I got to Felucia in this game I was totally like 'OH SH#*'. The graphics in this game 
 are superb and very detailed. And with the help of DMM (DIGITAL MOLECULAR MATTER) and Havok, this 
 games graphics and physics systems were perfected to the core. Just knowing that you could acutaly 
 make a dent were you threw your storm trooper into the metal wall, makes the game all that more 
 satisfying.
  
  The character animations during gameplay were awesome but during the cut scenes weren't so great.
 
  
  STORY/VOICE ACTING:
  
  I found the story in this game to be a little disappointing. Sure the whole 'Secret Apprentice' 
 thing was cool and all, but the way the last battle cut scene acted out was very anti-climactic. 
 In my opinion, Starkiller should have had a far better and cooler death than what this game had 
 brought (He didnt disappear like Obi-Wan or Yoda did, WHICH HE DESERVED.)
  
  The voice acting in this game was phenomenal with voice talents such as Nathalie Cox and Matt Sloan 
 (CHAD VADER YEA!) and had me gripped in the cut scenes. FORCE GRIPPED.
  
  In the end, I found this game to be really good. But i won't say the same for hardcore gamers that 
 expect near perfection in nearly all game titles. This game would be good for casual gamers and 
 all Star Wars fans. If you are either one of these two, I recommend you to pick up this game right 
 now. I MEAN NOW. GO! Before I force choke you and throw you into the laser walls. AT THE SAME TIME. 
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: keelster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 11:45 pm PT
Review:  I've played many Star Wars games, being the Star Wars fan that I am, and must say, that although 
 this game lacks in length, and has a few other downfalls, I can't stop playing it. Redoing missions, 
 and just going through with my force power, and throwing troopers off into the great yonder, is 
 just a great way to end my day. It's short, but it still has quite a good sense of character development, 
 and even brings with it a small amount of romance, much like the movies. There is an occasional 
 glitch here and there, but the controls are easy to master, and I have yet to encounter any major 
 problems, aside from a boss getting stuck behind some metal, which was easily remedied by the use 
 of my force blast. 
  
  The costumes, the characters, the worlds, the force powers alone, overcome the flaws of this short 
 game. Cause honestly, who wouldn't want to go around flinging objects around, zapping characters 
 and making them into little exploding balls of lightning, or just plain old hacking and cutting 
 through your enemies with your upgradeable lightsaber? 
  
  On the downside, I think the main problem I had with this game, was that it didn't let you choose 
 which path you wanted to follow. If they had instilled the "choose your own path" programming, 
 I'm pretty sure this game would have rocked the world. 
  
  Give it a shot. It's well worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofudan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 10:18 pm PT
Review:  i wanted so much for this game to blow me away... and maybe my expectations contributed to being 
 let down... but this is an average action game at best. although the graphics are gorgeous, the 
 gameplay is decidedly last-generation. the only real innovation (using the force to move and throw 
 objects and people) is poorly implemented and fails to be truly engaging due to overly loose targeting. 
 the story is competently written (which is more than george lucas can say about anything he's written 
 in the last 20 years) but again, like the gameplay, it never stands out.
  
  it's worth a rental and is a fun game to play for what it is... but you've probably seen most of 
 it before. i can't help but think of the 3rd person lightsaber perspective from the jedi knight 
 games, and how much more i enjoyed that than the force unleashed. it was fresh then, and even with 
 the tricked out force powers this updated version feels less interesting. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: samfsg795
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  I was quite pleased with this game when i first played the demo. I couldn't wait for it to come 
 out and it was a great game. there are a few things that i disliked about it though. The first 
 minor one is the endings, i don't think starkiller should "die" in both endings, thats if you count 
 the dark side ending as a death. One other thing was a few glitches in the game. Not so much with 
 the physics as it was it data tracking. The glitch where your mission objectives say *default Text* 
 anddon't keep track of force points or holocrons really makes this game a bit harder and makes 
 the player more dependant on writing down everything he/she has collected. Now for the good things 
 about the game. I think this game is a really fun game to play if you really want something to 
 do. This kept me entertained for the entire time i have had the game and even though it doesn't 
 have much re-play value, it is still fun to go back to previous levels and see how much destruction 
 you can make. Overall i think this is a great game and if you don't have it already get it. 
  
  Note to all the haters: You really should try to enjoy this game and stop picking out the smallest 
 details to complain about. no game is perfect and all games will have something "wrong" with it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 9, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  i never knew anything about star wars. i never seen one movie or anything. so there for i had no 
 idea what would be going on in the game. from what i seen on tv. this game looked pretty amazing. 
 every enemy that you would kill it would tell you what the enemy was and everything about him. 
 by the way that was really cool. so that did help with star wars. so if you liked psi ops for the 
 playstation 2 then your going to love this game. you get all kinds of power ups. some are just 
 really cool. its prety much a hack n slash. but you have play because it seems way more then that. 
 coo lightsaber moves and power ups. like you could change your color. the boss fights were pretty 
 fun. there story i thought was really good. the grahpics were top notch. i really did love everything 
 about the game. this was an almost perfect game. just the gameplay got a little annoying sometimes. 
 but when it comes down to it. this was a hardcore game that you really should play. i loved this 
 game. one of the best i played for the playstaton 3 so far.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benthegamesguru
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2008 9:53 am PT
Review:  StarWars Force Unleashed is ultimatly a decent game with some great set peices and a brilliant 
 story. It follows the adventures of 'Galen Marek', Darth Vaders secret apprentice who is sent out 
 by vader to do his bidding. It is a great adventure with many flaws but a must play for starwars 
 fans.
  Gameplay wise it falls flat. Its a hack and slash game which im not too keen on but a decent one. 
 You wield a lightsaber which has all the standard attacks you would expect with 'square', 'circle' 
 and 'triangle' the main buttons you will be dishing the pain out with. There are many combos which 
 you slowly unlock during your progress through the game with a decent selection of satisfying moves. 
 Combos are unique in the sense that you can combine force lightening with ypou lightsaber for instance 
 or use your lightsaber as a basebal bat with the help of the force. Its great but if you looking 
 for a realistic jedi fighting game this isnt it as at times it feels very arcadey and at times 
 a shallow hack and slash game. Combos can be confusing so most of the time you will be using the 
 same move over and over again which can make the game dull.
  The story is great as mentioned before and was the main reason i got it. Its a decent story with 
 cool cutscenes and decent animation despite some hammy dialogue. As for the locations they are 
 great, felucia being a standout with great art direction. Only problem is the game makes you revisit 
 the same planet more than once which i feel is a let down. This makes your return visits boring 
 despite it being a new level, the environments and enemies are pretty much the same. Jedi boss 
 battles are great, a highlight of the game with the ending button minigame sequence of the fight 
 a particular highlight. 
  The game doesnt last long at all. There are around 10 levels overall but seem stretched as you 
 basically seem to be fighting units of troopers throughout the level. it is tedious and feels like 
 a cheap way of making levels longer. Set peices in these level feel tacked on aswell. To me i feel 
 the gameplay is a bit last gen and not current gen despite the decent graphics. Enemy units are 
 also imbalanced with a purge trooper being seemingly harder to kill than one of the later and tougher 
 units which is frankly annoying. My main beef is the targeting system. It isnt a polished feature. 
 Although cool and definitly the best part of the game using the force can be frustrating when trying 
 to target particluar enemies and objects. Despite this using the force is a blast with great destructibility 
 within the environments and satisfying ways to kill enmies with the force.
  Enemy AI is at times appalling despite this 'euphoria' engine which does add some class to the 
 game. As for replay value... well there are two endings, a light side and dark side both worth playing 
 through to see but once you finish your second playthrough the game doesnt have much else left 
 to offfer. For this reason i traded the game in but overall is was a pleasant experience. The story 
 delivered, the gameplay not so much which sums it up. A decent game but at times poor, despite 
 still being the best starwars game for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mutt523
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 7, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  This game is the best game I have played in a long time. It had a few minor issues. One was it was 
 so short and left me wanting a lot more. It probally only took me 8 hours to go through the first 
 play through. Another issue was you should have had been able to have more force powers, more of 
 a force bar. have the force powers be stronger. People say that this game was full of glitches but 
 I have not had any rpoblems with glitches at all. Jedi versus jedi battles are fun and challenging. People 
 may say we got ripped off because the wii got more stuff than the PS3. I will tell you one thing. The 
 wii version sucks. I would have liked dueling mode to come to PS3 the extra levels were realy short 
 and not fun. Every level was completely different on wii and PS3. So the PS3 did not get ripped off 
 in any way besides dueling mode. (SPOILERS) I liked this game and for people who that the ending 
 sucks you should of known that Starkiller had to day because he wasnt in movies 4,5,6 (END SPOILERS) . I 
 would highly recomend this game to anyone. Even if you cont like Star Wars I would play it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daniel_malheiro
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  I've just finished the game. I bought it. The game is 4 hours long, no kidding! I've finished it 
 in 9 hours because I was playing slowly, looking for those Holocrons. I said 4 hours long because 
 my brother started playing the 8th Level. The game has 9 levels. He made his way through the game 
 until this level in 3 hours. But anyway, the story is ok, I mean, I don't think It's a remarkable 
 story and I'm sure It's not the best Star Wars story either, like many people are saying. But It 
 satisfying enough.
  
  The game play is extremely simple. The fighting system is like any simple action adventure or hack 
 and slash game out there and all the levels are very linear and straighforward. The graphics are 
 good, but some characters look weird and have some unrealistic animations. 
  
  The environment in the levels are detailed and full of stuff to be grabbed and thrown. There are 
 always many enemies on the screen too, but the clunky target system won't help at all. It's very 
 frustrating when you really need to use force powers but you cannot target and grab what you want. 
 It's a mess.
  
  On the early levels the enemies are very simple. Later on new ones will show up. They should be 
 challenging and tough but in the end they are very annoying and irritating because most of them 
 are lightsaber proof, or force power proof, or both. They are cheap, take too much time to be killed 
 and knock you down easily. So, very offen it's extremely annoying to wait for the precise moment 
 to attack. All the boss fights share similar problems. They are cheap ely programed and all the 
 boss encounters are stupidly scripted and unsatisfying to play. The way you have to fight Tall 
 creatures like Rancors and At-Sts is uncreative and tends to be a fight where you only have to 
 keep jumping and smashing the square bottom, and pressing triangle for lightning sometimes.
  
  The upgrades are not really interesting, because It does not look like the character is growing 
 stronger at all. The combos are useless specially on the final levels or against bosses. 
  
  Although there are many negative points, in the end I would recommend this game. All in all 
 I had a good time playing it. It's fun, the story is good, the grapshics are good and the characters 
 are good. It's not a difficult game, so It's easy for anyone to play it. This game feels rushed. 
 I have no doubt about that. Could be better, yes, off course, but if you have patience and like 
 Star wars or like actions adventure games like Ninja Gaiden, Devil May Cry, Genji, Conan, etc, 
 etc, you should give this game a try.
  
  I didn't experience serious issus, glitches or bugs. But my brother got stuck and had to restart 
 once, and also, the life bar of a Rancor was gone too, but he was able to finish the fight.
  
  I think this game is shorter than Heavenly Sword or that Genji for the PS2.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:08 pm PT
Review:  This is probably one of the few Star Wars games that explores different types of force powers and 
 offers many sweet upgrades as well as a pretty interesting plot, but has lower replay value.
  
  Gameplay 8/10- This game is all about force powers. Using the force to throw troopers off buildings, 
 throwing huge objects at small enemies, dragging Tie Fighters out of the sky, all these are possible 
 in this game. There are quite a bit of fun and interesting force powers and combos that make killing 
 your enemies fun. The game offers a good variety of enemies as well but it would have been nice 
 if a few more Star War's races were included. The level design is somewhat generic and repetitive 
 for some levels. One thing that was off was the targeting system. It felt random and didn't always 
 lock on to the object you wanted it to. It was frustrating and even if you manage to pick the object 
 up, the target system will mess up what you are trying to hit and end up aiming at something else. 
 Another thing was that the boss fights at the end of each mission used the same button pressing 
 finisher, which got repetitive, and I would have rather finished the boss of in actual gameplay. 
 The saber combat system is okay with a few interesting combos. Overall though, this game did a 
 pretty good job with the force powers, which are upgradeable as well, and if the lock on system 
 was better, there would be so much more you could do with your powers. 
  
  Graphics 7/10- The graphics themselves are below average and just updated PS2 graphics, but the 
 physics engine is interesting making the graphics above average. I liked how there was great detail 
 put into the different items when they are destroyed. Each splinter of wood or shard of glass. 
 
  
  Sound 7/10- Voice acting is decent for most characters but there are a few good ones who stand 
 out. Vader, Leia, and Palpatine sound hardly like their actors in the movies and are a little dissapointing. 
 However, John Williams Star Wars soundtracks never get old in Star Wars games, and the right song 
 is always played at the right time in this game. 
  
  Value 6/10- This game is pretty short and can easily be beaten on the first playthrough in under 
 ten hours. Once your done you can always replay levels, collect all the holocrons, and upgrade 
 all your powers to max, but once all that is done this game will most likely sit on your shelf 
 for a few months until you have the urge to play it again. Sure replaying levels with upgraded 
 stats and different cotumes and lightsabers may be fun, but not fun enough to last more than a 
 month. Overall, this game has a few interesting unlockables, but nothing that really sticks out 
 besides maybe a costume or two. Also, once you beat the fifth mission, the last missions are pretty 
 much repeats of previous missions played, only different areas and enemy types. 
  
  Tilt 7/10- This game had potential and I really was looking forward to it but after reading reviews, 
 I decided to rent it and ended up beating the game in less than a day. The force powers are really 
 fun to use and there are a few decent unlockables, but once you unlock everything, which could 
 probably be done in less than a day, there is little reason to replay the game. With a frustrating 
 lock on system and repetitve boss fights, you will be glad you only rented it. The first playthrough 
 is probably the most fun you will get out of the game, and after that the game feels like it loses 
 a lot of value. I would strongly advise you rent it first unless you are a huge Star Wars fan. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dun7uan
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 6, 2008 8:28 am PT
Review:  when you get a grip of the controles you ll start to enjoy it's really well built engines ; so 
 it's not a first impression game. and it's challenging and made with some great concept art and 
 poetic graphics so enjoy it and stop complaning about it being hard. ninja gaiden is ten times 
 more frustrating and less fun.....
  
  well ; being in the big areas makes you feel in a real star wars game living the flash and the 
 dark moments of the apprentice. slowing down bits but not in the majorities of the game boss fights 
 are amazing and the finishing move makes you really sense the hate.
  so all they wanted is to make you taste the force and they did. giving you state of the art engines 
 so take the fun mimentarely and it wont hurt you not seing the dead bodies .you already killed 
 them. and the destruction is good and well crafted so enjoy the game get used to the controls. 
 and don't underestimate it it's worth having 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krio_1000
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 6, 2008 4:31 am PT
Review:  When I saw the preview about the euphoric behavior and all the interaction with the environment 
 I was sure I was buying this game. I wanted a star wars game where you're able to use 'the force' 
 and 'lightsabre' to slash, push, pull and throw my enemies, and it seemed to me that these guys 
 were going to deliver. As soon as I was able I pre-ordered the game and I was really excited to 
 play it.
  Over all, so far as the storey line is concerned, the game is awesome and fills an empty gap in 
 the star wars universe.
  As for the game play, first time and second time through is amazing and gets more challenging the 
 higher difficult setting you choose. However I still felt that once you play the game once aside 
 from the storey line, it becomes just another 3rd person game where you know exactly where all 
 the enemies are and how to defeat them. This could have definitely been overcome by adding a multiplayer 
 facility to the game. I also found that this disappointed me because I was expecting a randomized 
 game in which I wouldn't know what to expect.
  I was also expecting to be able to destroy some friends online or in an arena just like in the 
 battlefront series, however I found that in PS3 version of the game there is no multiplay, which 
 is a sheer disappointment.
  All in all the game is just a film with the novelty of being able to control the main character 
 there is not a lot you can do to change the way you proceed through the game aside from the way 
 you look.
  The replay value is only high because it's a film, an interactive film, but still a film none the 
 less.
  I don't mean to slate the film and be a pessimist however there is a lot they could have done with 
 this game to make the replay value higher and the game play more extensive.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: v1nc3_15_c4rt3r
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 6, 2008 1:29 am PT
Review:  So far I considered this game is the best Star Wars game in Playstation (KOTOR is better) .
  
  The plot is interesting, and also good gameplay, but too repetitive.. Thanks to some of combo 
 variations, I managed to finish this game.. The sound is great.. Almost perfect graphics.. The environment 
 is drawn very smooth..
  I like when I must destroy the star destroyer (took me some time) , the graphic is so great..
  
 
  The bad point bout this game is the camera. It's kinda confusing when u move fast or doin several 
 combo.. and also why you only can play Darth Vader once.. I keep wishing I could control him again, but 
 I didn't get the chance until the game is over.. T-T..
  
  If you like action games and superb fans of Star Wars, I recommend u to buy this game.. You will 
 have a chance to swing a black lightsaber (the best part of the game) .. If u only look for fun, just 
 rent this game first.. then u can buy it if u like..
  
  Rating: Graphic 9.0/10.0
  Sound 8.0/10.0
  Gameplay 7.0/10.0
  
  Total 8.0/10.0
  
  a must have game for Star Wars 
 fans..
  
  Anyway this is my first review.. so sorry if it's a little bit confusin
  Thx 4 reading this review.. hope can help u 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ScottD73
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 5, 2008 1:48 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is a typical license game and gets by on the familiar characters, ships and 
 places. Graphics are good but not great, wwith better quality appearing well over a year ago, which 
 coupled with poor camera placement and glitches is a bit worrying. Gameplay is nowhere near the 
 quality of Devil may Cry, and I'd like to play with no knowledge of Star Wars. Combat is pretty 
 repetative, essentially using force moves, then dodge or slash until force is replenished. Saying 
 that, there are some great set pieces (and other set pieces that fall down badly) but there are 
 many moments when you end up wondering whaat on earth you need to do next. On a whole, fun, but 
 don't pay full price. There's very little reason to replay, so for roughly 10 hours game time it's 
 a little steep. I paid 5 to rent for a week and completed in a couple of days... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dollar75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 11, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  I'm writing with with subject to change as I have only completed the first couple of missions of 
 the game, but I have a fair understanding of the game and storyline, as I have completed the PSP 
 version also.
  
  I have not been a big Star Wars fan in the past as alot of them have never appealed. However, when 
 I read the previews of this release and played the demo, it certainly caught my attention, probably 
 because my likeness towards the action adventure genre has grown alot more.
  
  So, on the the review. 
  
  Sound:
  You're kidding yourself if you think that you're only 
 buying this game purely for its game play. Part of the appeal with the Star Wars franchise is the 
 sound. The sound of the light-sabre and its slicing through the droids or the sound of the blasters 
 whizzing passed your ear. This is a game that delivers by the bucket loads. I found myself going 
 back to it, just to hear the sound of the light-sabre, weak excuse I know, but still addictive 
 nonetheless. This appeal is amplified if you have surround sound.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphical power of the PS3 is certainly put to good use. The environments are very rich and 
 detailed. As you would be aware if you've been following this game, you're able to use the force 
 to pick up various objects and throw them around. This means that there is alot of junk, droids, 
 bombs and barrels lying around, yours to do with what you wish. The physics that is put into all 
 of these objects is also just as impressive.
  
  Gameplay:
  Unlike its PSP sibling, the gameplay requires alot more than just using the force powers all of 
 the time. You are encouraged to use your light-sabre skills alot more and also evaluate the battles 
 before you decide to engage. I found myself walking into a room and before jumping over the barrier 
 and start swinging, I used the force powers to be smart and take out a few enemies from a distance. 
 
  The way you dispatch your enemies is also fun. You can buy new moves and combos to make these moves 
 more impressive and fun to pull off. The more different ways you kill your enemies, the quicker 
 your force ranking grows and the stronger you get. I found this to be a very clever part of this 
 game. Unlike say Devil May Cry 4, when you know you're going to defeat the enemies, its just how 
 you choose to, with this game, its not guaranteed because you still have to be smart, but you can 
 still make it as fun as you like.
  
  The downside of this game would probably be the targeting system. As you walk, you'll notice the 
 small blue square (your targeting) move from one object to another quite easily and this can be 
 quite frustrating as it may take a couple of tries to pick up the object you want. After a few 
 more hours of play, I've also noticed that the block button could be a little more responsive, 
 but these two gripes don't really affect your enjoyment of the game.
  
  Final thoughts:
  If you like action adventure, if you like Star Wars, if you like fighting games with a slight difference, 
 this is the game for you. It may have a few things that you may not like (like a storyline that 
 doesn't quite add-up) , but you'll have fun with this game. And lets face it, who doesn't like picking 
 up droids and hurtling them down the corridor into a squadron of Storm Troopers.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 5, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  Hiya yall
  
  Lets start with the story, first off this peace of the star wars puzzle fits perfectly to complete 
 the picture of the gap between episode III and episode IV. You will grow to like the lead character, 
 Star killer, and most of the other characters that you don't destroy and i mean destroy.
  
  The melee combat is brilliant being able to mix up all of your combos like Square, triangle, square 
 which just makes the 2nd attack have lightening. You can add circle at the end of the combo to 
 lift him into the air which leads to aerial attacks which opens a other 2 - 4 hits. The force powers 
 are fun, noting like picking up a rebel and blasting him with your light saber and then lightening 
 and dropping him on his friends blowing them away. The buttons sequences are good but you don't 
 really feel powerful but they are impressive though but are repeated a little too much. Also you 
 depend on lightening too much when fighting the bigger villains you have to shock them because 
 force push, grip and your other powers are just too weak.
  
  The leveling up system is a bit slow you get more from the holocrons (more on them later) the amount 
 of thing that you can upgrade is quite staggering at first, on my first play through i upgraded 
 a ton in the first 3 - 4 levels but after that i didn't see much point in leveling up because it 
 cost lots of force spheres. You can also upgrade your saber too when searching for the jedi holocrons, 
 you can unlock 2 different types of crystals power crystals that give you a special fighting ability 
 such as the chance to give them an other blast of lighting on strike and Color crystals that change 
 the color of the saber that doesn't give you a bonus, just a different color. There is a special 
 hidden one that turns your saber black (if you want to know where it is message me and i'll tell 
 you where and what i did to get it. You can also find some hidden costumes, but i don't know where 
 they are i didn't find any on my first play through. 
  
  Again the boss battles for me are a major make or break depending on how bad i will drop 1 or 0.5 
 off my marking. The boss battles were easy after abit it's easy to find exploits on how to beat 
 each one but the way you finish them makes you feel a little powerful. The boss battles are just 
 a bit uninspired but the button sequence finishes are quite good. 
  
  What could of made you feel more powerful would be when you SLAM them down on the floor they didn't 
 bounce every time just once in a while sit in a creator that appears when they are slammed. I was 
 under the impression that the environment was more destructible but alas it is not. There are a 
 few things that blow up and move but more bent metal and broken wood or dints would make you feel 
 all the more powerful. The lack of ranged attacks make it hard to fight because you have to run 
 up to them and blow them into the floor. Getting bonuses for being extra dark would have made it 
 more excitable to pick a trooper up and stick him in front of the death star power beam. 
  
  One of your greatest enermy is the camera because it get's stuck too much on nothing, and make 
 it had to see what you are meant to attacking. But on the flip side is the action camera is a nice 
 little addition that can add some comic value and some cool shots but the camera stick can make 
 it a bit hard to get good view at times.
  
  This is my first impression after my second play through i will comment on the different endings 
 and anything i missed in my blog.
  
  Also as far as i know this is the first time you see a lightsaber in peaces being put together 
 unlike the other games where you just see the diffrent parts.
  
  Thank yall for reading
  
  Blood diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 4, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  This game could have easily been the best in the enire star wars game franchise, but sadly it went 
 completely downhill after the prologue level. The story is pretty good and truly fits the gap between 
 episode 3 and episode 4. However, the problem with this game is not the story, but the abysmal targeting 
 system. Using the force is incredibly difficult. Aiming is extremely inprecise and dont expect to 
 pull a tie fighter from the sky. The combat is aslo a big porblem. You have a very limited amount 
 of moves when using your lightsaber face to face with another storm trooper. A. I. is also pretty 
 bad. Enemys will not react very intelligent toward your almost devastating moves. Online is completely 
 absent to this game, giving no replay value whatsoever. So it is obvious that knights ofthe old republic 
 is still the best star wars game in retail. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MetalGearNerd
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 4, 2008 9:54 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed was a fun game to play but it could have been better. You start 
 of playing as Darth Vader but as soon as you get to play Starkiller that's where the fun begins. 
 You have some powers in the beginning and its fun to play but as the game progresses you get much 
 more powerful and its really satisfying. The finishing moves are really fun to watch especially 
 the boss battles. The things that are bad are things like you can get stuck and it pisses you off 
 a little bit, and the time limit of the game is far to short just like Gears of War I finished 
 it in 8 hours. That's all I didn't like with the game. The game has a very good storyline and the 
 graphics are really good and the levels are just amazing to look at. If you are a crazy Star Wars 
 fan like me I suggest that you go check this one out because it helps you understand the story. 
 And playing a dark side character certainly made the gameplay more fun in my opinion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beaner_bimmer
Rating: 4.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 11:28 pm PT
Review:  It seems the last thing George Lucas needs is more money.
  We know a good game is possible. KOTOR for example. Force Unleased definitely should be demo'ed 
 or rented before the investment is made. Now of course if you eat, breathe, and sleep star wars 
 then this title is at least worth its value for its storyline.
  But... If you want stunning graphics, try Bioshock
  ... If you want an involving rpg, try Disgaea
 
  ... If you want fun multiplayer, try Grid
  ... If you want to kill things dead, try MG or resistance
  If you've noticed the trend then congrats 
 for you. If you've played everything and need another game fix, this will do.
  
  As i said the graphics didn't seem polished, but i played the demo. That wasn't my biggest complaint 
 sadly. The "targeting" (for lack of a better word) seems to get stuck. It either wants to target 
 everything at once, or has trouble finding its target. Maybe the Xbox version runs better. Maybe 
 the xbox controller handles differently. Maybe its just me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: krzys75
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 3, 2008 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Games is quite good better then movies but is usualy like this when screenplay is by lucas they 
 suck if somebody else make screenplay is better ;] same like a book is fantastic movies is just 
 "if u dont have wat u like u like wat u have"
  story line in game is the best i more prefer this then movies from lucasarts.
  graphics is amazing 
 especialy enviroment I can stand and just look aroun especial on begining when u play Darth Wolf 
 charakter
  Main hero in game is also nice and easy to like him.
  Only one problem is ... i want be a sith lord more then master of yedi. sorry little Yoda but You 
 remember when first time knights betreyard they lords ?? wee doo and never forget and not forgive 
 u ronin bustards.
  Off course i hope the main hero of this title on the end of game be a realy master of FORCE BOTH 
 SIDE of FORCE but is cloud for me right now.
  cheers.
  krzys75 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigErn500
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 11:46 am PT
Review:  I got it the tuesday it came out after class. I started playin at around 1pm and ended the game 
 at 10:30. It was insanely short. that was about the only thing i didnt like about it (an all the 
 glitches) . all in all i really did enjoy the game. i already beat it in sith lord mode but took 
 me 3 days cause i didnt play all the time (work school and WoW) . i also thought the black lightsaber 
 was also goin to be better looking but i still like it. also tip on gettin the black lightsaber. 
 i just griped the big metal circle things and put it flat on top of the plat form where the holocron 
 is (yes the room wit all the green lazer things all the way on top) an then used the float thing 
 to get up an force dash on the metal circle thing (pulled it enof to where i can jump on it but 
 i wont tip over) then jumped on platform an ran to the holocron. playin sith lord mode was hot 
 i felt all bad ass wit my moves an rippin thro mobs like they nuttin still was too easy if ya ask 
 me but it was worth it to see the sith ending. i still dont understand y so many people didnt like 
 the fighting style other then the insane graphics that was another thing i really enjoyed. the 
 moves were hot an usin combo after combo after combo was extremly fun. just hope they make a new 
 one thats alot harder an alot longer and wit out so many gliches; falling into nothingness for 
 5 mins did get a lil boring. All an all i gave this game a 8.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:25 am PT
Review:  Visually, Force Unleashed is a good looking title with a very clean picture. The PlayStation 3 
 version fares a bit better, as it's framerate doesn't stutter, and there is little-to-no screen-tearing. 
 As you'd expect, Force Unleashed runs at a standard 720p resolution, and it looks solid thanks 
 to good use of anti-aliasing, and quality texture work. Lighting is well done, as reflections and 
 eye-candy are nearly everywhere you look. Additionally, stages have a very proper Star Wars look 
 and feel, by sporting the necessary epic qualities. Character detail could use some work, though, 
 as they all feel rather small and not quite as detailed as they should be, and animation isn't 
 as spectacular as I'd hope it'd be. 
  
  Being a story driven Star Wars game, there's a good amount of voice acting to be found, most of 
 which is rather solid. The audio presentation is definitely great, as the game makes use of a wide 
 assortment of Star Wars sounds to match the sights all around you. If you find yourself enjoying 
 the game, I suggest turning the audio up and raising the bass fed to your sub-woofer - there's 
 a lot of rumbling sounds to be heard... and felt. The audio is definitely this game's strongest 
 point.
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed won't be one of the games I'll remember as being poor, but I also 
 won't look back on it years from now and feel nostalgic. The end result of this ambitious title 
 feels rather average, as the gameplay suffers from redundancy, lack of fluidity, lack of speed, 
 and lack of multiplayer. The story is solid, using your force powers is fun, the audio is great, 
 and the visuals are decent... but those don't fix the core issues of The Force Unleashed. Rent this 
 one, play it for the story, and return it. It's a 10 hour game, with not much else after the story.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfreyre
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The game feels ok, nice story, some times it feels Geroge Lukas-ish. Not better than KOTOR Storyline, 
 but ok to play and enjoyable for SW Fans. Pitty about the control and the Glitches... sometimes, 
 we curse for postponing releasing dates... but this one, could have been a blessing for the game. 
 Anyway, rent it, play it, finish it and move on. Lets hope for a better story between A new hope 
 and TESB. Cant wait to have KOTOR 3, will be a nice addition with some of the Force Unleashed moves 
 and mechanics but without the control issues. The game feels ok, nice story, some times it feels 
 Geroge Lukas-ish. Not better than KOTOR Storyline, but ok to play and enjoyable for SW Fans. Pitty 
 about the control and the Glitches... sometimes, we curse for postponing releasing dates... but this 
 one, could have been a blessing for the game. Anyway, rent it, play it, finish it and move on. 
 Lets hope for a better story between A new hope and TESB. Cant wait to have KOTOR 3, will be a 
 nice addition with some of the Force Unleashed moves and mechanics but without the control issues. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 7:25 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is fun, but its way too short, and honestly, while the story was 
 pretty cool, it doesn't help the original trilogy out at all. Still, you get to play as a secret 
 apprentice to Darth Vader in the aftermath of the Clone Wars. That's a good enough premise to at 
 least give the game a try, as at times it can be a lot of fun. However as a whole, it could have 
 been better.
  
  The premise to the Force Unleashed is that you play as a secret apprentice to Darth Vader, found 
 at the end of the opening level where you actually get to play as Vader himself, while on a mission 
 on Kashyyyk, the Wookie home world. From there, you play as the secret apprentice, going on missions 
 for Vader, hunting down any remaining Jedi in the aftermath of the Clone Wars. The story continues 
 on from there, bridging the gap between Episodes III & IV. It is an entertaining story, however 
 it does lead to some issues with how the original Star Wars trilogy is now perceived based on the 
 events of TFU.
  
  The gameplay is your standard third person action game, most comparable to Heavenly Sword in my 
 opinion, in a lot of ways too. There is a soft lock on feature for the apprentice's force powers, 
 like force grip and force lightning. Movement is standard to the left analog stick with camera 
 control on the right, incidentally the camera can be rough at times. Jumping is mapped to the X 
 button, [] attacks with his lightsaber, Triangle is the Force Lightning button, O uses Force Push, 
 R2 is Force Grip, L1 performs a Force Dash, R1 is a lock on and L2 blocks. The controls are good, 
 although the lightsaber attacks felt weaker than your force abilities. However that can be augmented 
 as there is a light RPG leveling system in the game. For every level you earn 3 force points, one 
 for force powers, one for force talents, and one for force combos. Combos unlocks more lightsaber 
 combos obviously, powers unlocks or strengthens your force powers, and talents strengthens the 
 apprentice (more health, force points, etc) . As you play you can also find lightsaber crystals 
 to change the color of your lightsaber plus crystals that provide some bonuses, like a higher blaster 
 deflection rate or life steal.
  
  The levels are pretty straight forward, though there are some hidden areas. There isn't much story 
 during the levels, although there is some dialogue, otherwise there are cutscenes that start and 
 end the level. For the way the story is hyped as an official bridge between the trilogies, there 
 could have been more scenes to help the story to develop some more. Even still, there is a fair 
 amount of dialog during the levels that help keep the story moving.
  
  The graphics are very nice, showing off a number of planets from the Star Wars galaxy. The characters, 
 planets, environments, not to mention the force powers, all look very nice and fit in. Enemies 
 are pretty generic, aside from the bosses you encounter and the Jedi you fight. The big time characters 
 from the prequel trilogy look very nice, and are voiced well, even if Jimmy Smits is the only one 
 to reprise his role, as Senator Bail Organa. Audio wise TFU is just like all over Star Wars games, 
 it sounds great. You'll hear the same familiar themes from the Star Wars saga.
  
  There are a few missteps with TFU. First off the game is too short, especially since the story 
 is considered canon as the bridge between Episodes III & IV. I finished the game in under 6 hours. 
 And considering you revisit three worlds, TFU just doesn't feel like it was developed enough. Also, 
 as I mentioned once before, while the story is good, it does tarnish the glorious image of the 
 original Star Wars trilogy. The events of TFU help setup the original Star Wars trilogy? Seems 
 like the more the Star Wars saga is developed, the worse it gets. Getting away from that, the gameplay 
 can be fun, but there are enough times where its not, particularly in areas where you have to fight 
 multiple types of enemies who all have different methods to defeat them. And this is bad b/c most 
 of these enemies have power weapons that can knock the apprentice down allowing other enemies free 
 damage. That's irritating.
  
  I was somewhat disappointed with Star Wars: The Force Unleashed. The best game I can compare it 
 with is Heavenly Sword, which also featured a good story, good gameplay but was short as well. 
 What hurts here is that the gameplay is worse in a few areas, there's no huge mega battle that 
 HS has near the end, and the story really does hurt the Star Wars trilogy more than it helps it. 
 Still there is fun gameplay to be had, despite my criticism. Unleashing the force hasn't been this 
 fun, but due to the length, I'd recommend renting as opposed to a full purchase, unless you find 
 it cheap. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tmack20
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 1, 2008 3:52 pm PT
Review:  One of the best Star Wars story lines in a SW game, but could have been much longer and immersive. 
 Was quite a fun game. Force grip was hard to aim, and there always happens to be a space barrel 
 or rock/boulder to throw. You'd throw items in the direction that the secret apprentice was facing, 
 not the visible camera angle, which was hard to get used to. Darth Vader's voice could have been 
 better. The character animations were good and the overall graphics were quite impressive for a 
 Star Wars game. There should have been more light saber control in the game. The final gameplay 
 situations in the last few levels are good and challenging, but also fun. Versing the bosses at 
 the end of each level gives you a bit of a challenge, and don't you just hate that bull rancor!!!!! 
 The decision at the end of game requires some thought on which path you'll take. Overall good game 
 play, but just way too short to be a brilliant game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: paleblack01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 1, 2008 1:07 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I like to let you know that this is one of the best star wars games I've ever played. 
 Its just that I was expecting a little more out of the game than it brought me. The plot is great, 
 yet hard to believe this all happened between episode 3 and 4. This game is full of twist's and 
 turns with beautiful animations, visuals and back round art throughout the whole game. The levels 
 of different environments, definitely bring a strong sense that you are roaming the stars wars 
 galaxy. Customization in the game is very large except when it comes to your light-saber. The down 
 sides (sorry to say there is) . When you play the game, you will encounter glitches, late audio 
 and maybe some messed up camera angles. Also, the loading screens take an annoyingly long time 
 to load, even for options! But when it comes down to it, the game is worth a look. If your patient, 
 love rpg/button mashing games, and fantastic graphics this ones for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: combatsoldier
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 11:12 pm PT
Review:  Now here we go. I am going to be honest. You are probably wondering as to why I gave this game 
 a 9 and on the 360 I gave a 10. Well its not cause I am a fanboy because I like my ps3 more. It 
 is just a few little things. Such as the achievements on the 360 give you more incentive to play 
 it over and over to unlock everything. If this had the trophy system I would happily give it a 
 perfect 10. 
  
  This is virtually the same game as the 360 counterpart. The only difference is that the ps3 has 
 better graphics witch are noticable however the 360 version has a faster frame rate witch is also 
 noticable. This game is honestly almost perfect in every way. Wow, I might as well pee on myself 
 and call myself a little kid again. This game is utterly amazing. Now naturally you would think 
 I would love this game just because I am a hardcore star wars fan. However if you read my past 
 reviews you know that I am a tough critic with the star wars games simply because I expect perfection.
 
  
  Now when it comes to this game, it delivered on every aspect from graphics and gameplay witch is 
 hard to come by now adays. Normally you sacrifice one for the other. Also there are many critics 
 who dont like the game and well thats there opinion cause this is mine. The game is a flat out 
 masterpiece. From the way you can control pretty much everything in the game from force to level 
 and costume selection. Now if thats not enough. This game offers eye popping visuals that will 
 definitely utilize your 1080 p lcd television to its fullest. Offering an array of details that 
 only this game and the new graphics engine could deliver.
  
  However this game was not just all about looking pretty as it delivers some serious solid gameplay 
 available and should be appealing to all members of people. The game is of moderate length. I would 
 say about 8 hours long. However it offers a ton of replay value and loads of secrets and unlockables 
 that will have you busy for many more hours. This is a fine game and definitely worth the 60 dollar 
 price tag. I recommend this game to anyone and everyone who enjoys games. Especially if your a 
 star wars fan. Even if your not this game still is a solid game that you will love and enjoy. This 
 has been another exclusive from your king of review. I have to go now and play this for the 3rd 
 time through and I am not even bored of it yet. Great game and is absolutely beautiful. Go get 
 it while you can. This baby is one hot chicken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DiabolicalX
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  When I see Star Wars printed on a game I immediately get mixed feelings. I always think back to 
 the great games like KOTOR and Jedi Academy, but I also think of the crap games like the Phantom 
 Menace and Jedi Knights 2. That's why when I began playing Force Unleashed I had an equal amount 
 of good and bad tastes in my mouth. To begin with this game is fun, it is very exciting to hurl 
 a wookie down a 500 meter deep canyon or to blast a bridge into pieces with a mighty force push. 
 But as with the good there is also the bad, this game is stacked with aggravating bugs which make 
 things that should really be highlights, just plain frustrating.
  
  To start with the presentation garners mixed reactions. The voice acting and characters facial 
 animations are very well done, but thanks to an over abundance of physics engines things like fabric 
 and even enemies themselves seem to fold like paper. This is forgivable though, conssidering the 
 three robust physics engines, including the tried and true Havok engine of Half Life fame and also 
 Lucasarts newly developed Euphoria technology (which deals mainly with human reactions in AI) , 
 the throwing, zapping and pushing is all the more enjoyable. The voice acting is interesting considering 
 they had to get new people to voice Vader, the Emperor and another characetr who I shall not mention, 
 they all do a good job, particularly Vader's voice actor, I think the Emperor's voice is a bit 
 strained though. The environments are quite well done, though some are a tad repetitive or frustrating 
 to traverse, I must say that my favourite would actually have to be the opening level on Kashyyk, 
 the Wookie homeworld, where you smash and crush well rendered tree's rocks and wooden bridges and 
 buildings. Said constructs also break apart quite nicely, providing you don't get caught amongst 
 the falling rubble and get stuck. It is quite obvious that the major effort was put into the apprentice 
 himself, his various costumes look quite spectacular and his facial animations seems to be te best 
 out of all, though in my personal opinion I think his character can be a tad predictable. The most 
 frustrating part of the level design however is the camera, it can get stuck behind you in tight 
 areas and can also get stuck in you, treating you to a first person view of a Rancor piffing a 
 rock at your face. The most dissapointing part however is the recycling of maps, you will traverse 
 the same planets at least twice which can be quite the bore. This game however shines in the story 
 telling.
  
  The story of the Force Unleashed centers around an orphaned boy, who we know only as codename: 
 Starkiller, funnily enough we never actually learn of his real name. The main difference between 
 him and any normal orphan is that he was adopted by non-other than Darth Vader himself. After Vader 
 was sent to Kashyyk to hunt a rouge Jedi Knight, he encounters a power source far greater then 
 the Jedi he was sent to kill, after kiling the Jedi he becomes aware of the now deceased Jedi's 
 son who just happened to be standing right behind Vader the whole time (!!!) Vader takes the boy 
 in secret and exposes him to excrutiating training that borders on torture. He turns the boy into 
 a killer and sends him off to kill Jedi knight and former general Master Rohm Koda, who is attacking 
 an Imperial Satellite orbiting Narsha Da. Though Koda was expecting to draw out Vader he instead 
 gets Starkiller and this is where the story begins in earnest. It is by far the best Star Wars 
 story since Episode V and fits perfectly in between the crappy trilogy and the masterpiece trilogy. 
 I wouldn't want to spoil any of the story as it is brilliant and to spoil it for anyone would be 
 a crime. Needless to say there will be a few moments of connection between this game and Episode 
 IV. The only problem I had was the laziness when it came to new levels, many story elements would 
 bring you back to old levels, the worst of these being Felucia the fungus world, which is one of 
 the most frustrating levels I've ever dealt with. Though the story is still brilliant none the 
 less.
  
  The gameplay in this game is simple yet gives an aura of complexity, each force move and lightsaber 
 combo is simple yet impressive and the upgrade system provides a good set of rather noticable bonuses. 
 For example the ability to pick up not one but three objects with force grasp and then toss the 
 to the side all at once. Gameplay however fun, has a fair bit of bugs. Mainly associate with enemy 
 strength and Starkiller's inability to get up quickly, after being knocked down, Starkiller takes 
 a nap and then flips up, giving plenty of time for the AT-ST to walk over and push you down again. 
 The timed button mashing at the end of boss fights, is either spectacular or annoying, though you 
 are more likely to fail when killing a large enemy then stuff up the timing on an enemy Jedi. Speaking 
 of boss fights, they are hard as hell, with 95% of your attackes being either inefective of blocked, 
 though some bosses lack this ability to absorb your attacks, they still pack a mighty wallop when 
 they hit you, and you need to be constantly on the move, the jump button is your best friend. Force 
 lightning gets through nearly everything though. The fixed cinematic camera can be bothersome , 
 if the boss goes to far away you lose site of him/her, if he/she gets to close then you have near 
 to no idea of where you should be going, though I can't imagine the levels of frustration if the 
 camera was in third person view. The gameplay has a lot of bugs, but they can be overlooked at times, 
 other times though it may make you break your controller.
  
  In conclusion I do advise everyone to give this game a try, it is definetly worth the hardships, 
 though if you suffer from anger problems and often lash out violently, then at least buy yourself 
 an adamantium controller and a storm tropper helmet because you may be compelled to smash one and 
 bang the other into a wall. If people were expecting a return to previous form the likes of Rouge 
 Squadron, Jedi Academy and KOTOR, then this is as close as you're gonna get for a quite awhile. 
 Play it, but don't go in expecting to be completely gobsmacked at its awesomeness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crazy_dudex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 10:25 am PT
Review:  Being able to electricute, blow up, smash to pieces and chop up a storm trooper is very satisfying. 
 The effortlessness of lifting up some fulcian warriors and watching them struggling about, vanely 
 trying to hold onto a box or some other object to stop them being thrown into the abyss, gives 
 you a true sense that your an all ultimate Sith Lord.
  The lush plants on Felucia are very detailed, even the corridors of a Star Destroyer seem vibrant 
 in its own greyish sort of way. The graphics are eyecatching and quite good. 
  But through all the force powers and the creative designs, there is someting missing from this 
 game. Destroying everything in your path gets ... I wouldnt say boring but, maybe a bit repetetive. 
 Enter level, electricute badguys, maybe in some creative way, but even though ou can kill people 
 in many ways, it seems repetetive. I don't know what is exactly wrong, but something is. 
  Forget this and its a great game. The story is very interesting with lots of twists and turns. 
 The gameplay is good, apart from the targeting system which makes it hard to pick up what you want. 
 You try to lift up a Stormtrooper or Jawa and you may end up picking up a box way to the left or 
 right.
  The game is a good game, and I recommend buying it, but compared to all the other good games coming 
 out, you should save your money for a different game and rent this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bangboom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 12:13 am PT
Review:  I have to point out tough the reviews this game has gotten, critics have given it anywhere between 
 6-7.5. People have said it has bad targeting systems, linear levels and wonky animation. These are 
 all true but aren't that noticeable when you get down to business.
  
  You play Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice who is a force prodigy. Your mission is to 
 hunt down Jedi (for the time being anyway :P) . While the story gives you a rather unwelcoming start 
 it soon picks up and is engaging enough and of high enough quality that it can be considered a 
 welcome addition to the Star Wars saga. In cut scenes character models can look a bit off but voice 
 acting and face animations make the story much more enjoyable.
  
  But that's not why you'll get the game, you'll get the game because of the force powers. There 
 isn't anything more enjoyable than flinging your enemies around, throwing your lightsaber into 
 them, electrocuting them, tossing around debris and then playing with them with force grip. You 
 need to think like a Sith, you need to be cruel and go on a rampage with the force to appreciate 
 this game. The physics are the best I have ever seen, knocking through walls, bending metal and 
 smashing glass all in a realistic way. The physics for characters is something else though, you 
 will not see a repeated animation EVER!
  
  A tip to properly enjoy this game is to play it on easy and for a second time, enemies can be properly 
 mutilated and and overwhelmed, it so much for fun than the first time around. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LaughingManX23
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 29, 2008 9:40 pm PT
Review:  i'm gonna be honest with this one.
  Not what I expected.
  Maybe I was expecting too much with the the long wait.
  But, after I started to get into it it 
 really showed what was going on.
  DMM is really going to make a effect on games to come along with the Euphoria engine which we've 
 seen in previous games such as GTA 4. It really brings hack and slash, action adventure games to 
 another level. And I really can't wait for more Starwars installments featuring this and other 
 action games featuring it.
  Not to mention amazing story line. Not what I thought at all. Which really blew me away. There 
 were times playing this game that really made me feel like this is the new generation of games.
 
  Lack of online/ muliplayer play and trophies is a little sad but shouldn't be what makes games 
 good and its been making too much of a impact we need to view games for more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: anelasama
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 2:33 pm PT
Review:  yeah, I'm a bit late on the hype, but WOW.
  
  I'm going to get this out of the way first.  I am one of your biggest 
   
 You are BADASS AND I AM IN AWE. This game is SO FUN.
  
  NOTE: THIS IS NOT FOR DIE-HARD STAR WARS FANS WHO TAKES THEIR STAR WARS SERIOUSLY. 
 There is a part in the plot that will piss all Star Wars fans off. I dont want to say, but 
 it will MAKE YOU SO MAD at the plot!!! I read the book to get the plot before 
 I got the game, but the game is pretty much the dumbed down version 
 of it, but it follows all the much-needed details. I'm not one 
 who takes their Star Wars seriously, but as an ordinary reader, 
 WTF WTF WTF NO THAT DOES NOT MAKE SENSE I WANT TO THROW THE BOOK ACROSS THE 
 ROOM WHY. After that I stopped expecting lots from the plot.  
 the book didnt disappoint me.
  
  Overall, Great  fluid movement 
 during gameplay, Very VERY nice  HIGHLY 
 addicting gameplay, and I am VERY VERY impressed with the physics 
 applied to the game.
  
  I only have 2 qualms about the game: The graphics could use 
 a little bit of work in the cutscenes  the  
  it's good, but I've seen better (NOTE: 
 MGS4) . And the targeting system is a little wonky. 
 Other than that, GET THE GAME. YOU MUST.
  
  I give it 4 stars  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 1:37 pm PT
Review:  after so many star wars games its dificult to see new things in games about the series.
  even thought the critics didnt like it too much, it is a fact that force unleashed is innovative, 
 very fun and will be awesome to any star wars fans.
  this game for me was the most solid prove why you cant trust in the critics reviews, simply because 
 in the case of this game for example, they worried to much about REALLY minor technical issues 
 that wont bother anyone along the amazing experience that force unleashed delivers.
  
  said that lets talk about what makes this game worth the price.
  first of all the idea of mixing 
 lightsaber combos with sith powers such as the lighting force is amazing and innovative.
  and the "rpg" system where you gain level, buy new combos etc... gives even more unique features 
 in force unleashed.
  all the unlockable features dont falls behind as well, there are lot of holocrons hidden in levels, 
 find them to unlock new lightsabers for example.
  complete missions to unlock new costumes...
  and some more unlockable content.
  
  well talking 
 now about the bad points.
  the lack of any type of multiplayer, or any type of mode that differs from the single player campaing 
 helps to decrease the replay value, plus the short campaing.
  and one real problem related by gamespot was the aiming system, while using the force.
  even 
 thought it is not as bad as said by gamespot the aiming system does fail sometimes and frustates 
 the player a little bit.
  other issue is the action camera in the boss fights, sometimes they trick you.
  
  but for the 
 rest believe me that the problems reported by critics such as low framerate and awful gameplay 
 sequences are almost inexistence.
  i played in the ps3 system, with the 40GB HD, with about 20GB of free space in it.
  i DIDNT face, 
 and i will say again, I DIDNT face ANY problems with the framerates, i really think that the issue 
 is with the ps3 gamespot is using :)
  and about the sequences, its not true that they are awful, they are just like god of war sequences, 
 if you liked god of war sequences you will like force unleashed sequences as well.
  
  so closing the review, if you are a star wars fan buy force unleashed with no fear, but even if 
 you arent, make sure to at least rent it and maybe buy it to. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NeNoByTe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  I got this game as a present from my cousin, and man oh man! I stopped playing Call of Duty Modern 
 Warfare online when I got this baby! lol This game is really great! You can upgrade your lightsaber 
 as to color, power crystals, your character clothes/skin, and even your force powers to do combos 
 and abilities you never though possible. I get a kick out of the force grip... I mean being able 
 to throw stormtroopers across the map? cmon! How can you not love being able to crush your enemies, 
 blow up levels, and throw almost everything and anything around you. The first level I thknk does 
 it for ya because you start as the great Darth Vader! After that you are a sith warrior on the 
 path of becoming the ultimate fighter, and man the story line just gets better and better. I even 
 read in the LA Times this game has the possibility of becoming a movie now... thats how good people 
 say it is! This is the third different Star Wars game I have ever played, and by far, my favorite. 
 9.5/10 fo sure! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-BossSnake
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 29, 2008 4:01 am PT
Review:  Before you read this review I would like to say i have the game and I finished it twice and saw 
 both endings so you can trust this review.
  Well Star Wars: Force Unleashed is by far the best Star Wars game I ever played.
  
  STORY-You 
 play as Starkiller/Darth Vader's secret apprentice that Darth Vader sends to kill some of the last 
 surviving jedi and to help you with your mission you have Proxy (a prototype holo droid who's primary 
 objective is to kill Starkiller) and Juno (a good looking female imperial pilot) , together they ,ake 
 the story very interesting.
  The story has a few major twists that you wouldent expect.
  Star Wars: Force Unleashed is a very story driven game, the story is so good that you might say 
 that it is even better then the origenal movie's.
  STORY=10
  
  VISUAL-This is one of the best looking PS3 games ever!
  I didn't really see any glitches.
  
 The planets in this game look so good you can for sure say that the game looks better then the 
 movies!
  Although all the it looks really good close up i've noticed sometimes in the far distences you 
 can see objects that look hand drown.
  VISUAL=9.5
  
  GAMEPLAY-The controls are moderetly simple but when you for lift something you can often pick up 
 the wrong object or throw it somewhere you didn't want to.
  there are plenty of attack combos which are pretty easy to memorize.
  GAMEPLAY=8
  
  Altogether 
 Star Wars: Force Unleashed is definetly worth your money and i would easaly recomend it since this 
 game really unleashes the force!
  OVERALL=9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateThompson114
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 29, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Ok so you may or may not have read my review on the psp, well it was great for a psp, and well 
 it holds no grounds here since the psp is more in line with the wii then the x-box or ps3.
  
  Well the good: VISUALS, wow simply beautifult, to a point, no 1080 resolution support, this 
 a shame, it could have been perfect; STORY, who wrote the story on this one, cause they should 
 have writted it on ep1-ep3, they wouldn't of been such a let down. The story makes you want more 
 (which we may be in luck since the developer has already stated this one could and should be made 
 into a cgi film, the seventh (if you so much as state anything about that last cgi, i will learn 
 the force and choke you) ; EXTRA CONTENT, so there isn't much but it does help.
  
  The BAD: Ok so let me first say I am a huge star wars fan, and if you are too, then get the game, 
 its worth that. GRAPHICS, ok so whats up? no 1080? when i punt a jawa I want only the best!!; CAMERA, 
 gets in the way; CONTROLS, uh force speed with grip would be nice, or needed.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the force unleashed is a game whos story takes place between the third and fourth episodes 
 of the star wars canon storyline. Apparently Darth Vader discovers a very powerful child and takes 
 him under his wing as a secret apprentice, code named Starkiller. With him on his side, he hopes 
 to be able to destroy his sith lord master.
  
  Gameplay: The game play is very good. It's like star wars and god of war in one game. Using the 
 force power to throw items, enemies, destroying / or manipulating environmental elements is addictive. 
 It plays mostly like a platformer. The enemies aren't the best I've went against in a game but 
 they can still bring a good challenge.
  
  The boss battles are where it's at though. Where force powers clash in fun battles. However you 
 will get frustrated about the defence mechanism. Where it does you more harm than good at times. 
 And the aiming system is not as solid as it should be where you're left hangin tryin to grab your 
 opponent with the force and it doesn't work.
  
  Sound: The music is good. Voice acting is well done.
  
  Graphics: The game is beautiful. But 
 then there are some pop ups and items do go through walls.
  
  Story: Starkiller is an interesting character. But he's not well developed. There's not enough 
 to really give him a sense that he belongs there.
  
  All in all, this is a game that wont dissapoint. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Achaean728
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that most reviewers gave this game horrible to mediocre reviews. My 
 advice to any gamer would be "dont listen to them!" Despite its many obvious glitches and flaws, 
 the game overall still delivers an experience and story worth playing through, even multiple times. 
 
  
  STORY: The story is fantastic. Any Star Wars fan should play this game for the story alone. Its 
 got a very cinematic feel to it and is full of twists and turns along the way that will keep you 
 asking for more. And to be honest, I found the story to be more engrossing and entertaining than 
 Episodes I, II and III. This is definitely one of the strongest aspects to the game. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: The gameplay is pretty standard here. Its your normal "hack and slash" with combos thrown 
 in for variety. The most entertaining aspect of the gameplay, however, is definitely the use of 
 Force powers. As you progress through the game, you'll unlock more force powers that will allow 
 you to do a number of things, use lightning attacks, force push doors and enemies, throw your lightsaber, 
 etc. A dash of RPG was thrown into the game that gives a sense of progression. As you play through 
 the levels, you'll "level up" which will allow you spend your new attribute points in one of three 
 places: force powers, force combos, and your force traits. 
  
  As I said above, the force powers is by far the best part of the gameplay and this is further heightened 
 by the fact that the environment is completely interactive. You can throw any enemy, box, crate, 
 pipe, or droid you come across. On top of this, you'll be using your force powers to electrically 
 charge machines or you'll use your force push to blow up doors or blow out windows so that the 
 vacuum of space sucks them out! 
  
  GRAPHICS: The game is visually stunning. The artwork and concept behind the game is beautifully 
 done. The levels are very imaginative and is a perfect representation of the Star Wars universe. 
 The character models are fantastic and look even cleaner in cut-scenes. The lip-syncing and facial 
 expressions are also done quite well. One of the best aspects of the graphics would be the inclusion 
 of a physics engine. This greatly heightens the feel of using your force powers to blast through 
 enemies and doors alike. 
  
  SOUND: The music is great. Pretty much pulled straight from all the Star Wars movies and gives 
 the game that extra "epic" feeling as you progress through it. The voice acting was also done quite 
 well and to be honest, I found the voice acting to be better than some of the normal acting in 
 some of the Star Wars movies. 
  
  TECHNICAL: This is where things take a turn for the worse for SW: TFU. To put it frankly, the game 
 is glitchy. The good news is that the glitches arent too bad, meaning they wont prevent you from 
 completing a mission or what youre currently doing in the game, but they are most certainly noticeable 
 and can be annoying at times. Now, I've heard a variety of different glitches from a number of 
 people, but I'll only cover the glitches that seem to be the most commonly found. First, "invisible 
 walls." A number of people, including myself, would consistently run into these throughout the 
 game. You would be running down a hall or path and then stop as if there was a wall in front of 
 you. Jumping seemed to get you "unstuck" but this happened enough to become annoying. Falling through 
 elevators was another major glitch that was common as was enemy units becoming stuck or simply 
 not attacking you at all. And I've also heard from a few people of frame rate drops and game freezes 
 are peculiar places (i. e. when nothing is around you or going on) . Like I said, these glitches 
 dont hinder the gameplay, but they most certainly get annoying. 
  
  OVERALL: The game is great, its loads of fun, and is a must-play for any Star Wars fan. Despite 
 its in game glitches, the game plays very well and leaves a lasting impression, especially with 
 the story. As for replay value, the game has tons. Beating the game allows you to play through 
 again with your leveled character so you can max out their stats and abilities. Doing this will 
 allow you to unlock things such as extra lightsabers and power crystals to use, costumes to wear 
 and in-game databases that has bios of characters found in the game. Also, the inclusion of an 
 alternate ending will most likely motivate most players to at least one more play through. The 
 game may not be worth a full fledged $60 (although I think it is) but its definitely worth a rent 
 at the minimum. You dont want to miss out on this! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dark_Order26
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 28, 2008 10:29 am PT
Review:  Graphic:
  
  = Physics engine in the game has totally made it to be realistic than the previous Star Wars games, 
 the characters you've eradicated will not go through walls, repulsing in the center of a group 
 of enemies will make them fly to the back, and especially the moves are well detailed for each 
 attack you'll be making.
  With the HDTV, you'll be surprised with its visuals, having the most greatest graphics in the history 
 of the Star Wars games. Facial expression is now detailed as much as LucasArts have done and Darth 
 Vader's look is teh bomb!
  
  Sounds:
  
  = With a 5 speaker sub-woofer system, your house will surely feel the Force around it and especially 
 you. With the cool lightsaber, explosion, gun fight, force lightning, force power, enemies grunts, 
 and simply the best voice-acting sound effects, you'll definitley say "Wow.... THIS GAME ROCKS". 
 The soundtrack of the game had been mixed with the Episode III (the good thing is that the "Battle 
 of the Heroes" is in the game) and IV sounds from the well-knowned composer, John Williams.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  = All of the possibility of a Jedi and Sith are all here. When you're in the 
 first stage "The Prologue", try hitting your ally clone troops with a Force Push or with your lightsaber 
 and they will die eventually. A. Is are much more intelligent this time, you can't really finishing 
 a mission without dying once or without getting your life low. As what I said in the Graphic section, 
 the physics engine is the bomb of the game. There are some levels that has an objective to eliminate 
 all enemies before proceeding, like in the "Prologue", you need to eradicate all wookies before 
 advancing (sounds like God Of War) . There is also a counter-attack system, in which you'll be struck 
 by lighting and by hitting O, you'll counter attack. And the end-strike system in the end of all 
 bosses, press Triangle first and tadda! You'll have a God Of War end-strike system mode. Oh, I 
 almost forgot the Force Push in all walls blocking your way, by holding the Triangle button you'll 
 be Force Pushing the wall through.
  
  Controls:
  
  X = Jump
  Square = Attack/Melee
  Triangle = Force Levitate 
  (moving your analog will move the enemy while holding Triangle, then 
 try to release it to throw the enemy.)
  Circle = Force Lightning
  
  Replay:
  
  = Do you want to unlock all the costumes, crystals, concept arts, and the Databank? Try playing 
 each level again, this time find all the passages you've missed to go and try to destroy the objects 
 in each level. Well, almost of the objects are movable and vulnerable.
  While, playing through each level, you'll have the Force Points again to upgrade the Force Powers 
 you've missed to upgrade.
  
  Overall:
  
  = A worthy game to buy. Yet, the awesome game throughout the Star Wars history and for all people, 
 especially in Hyperspace. With the awesome physics engine, the game will be the one that will defeat 
 Knights of the Old Republic. It's a heart-pumping, eye blasting game that will blow you away on 
 your PS3.
  
  Be both, a Jedi and a Sith. And "May the Force be with you, always". 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 28, 2008 9:05 am PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game for quite awhile now, and when it finally got released - couldn't 
 make up my mind as to which version I should get: PS3 or XBOX-360. I decided to go for the PS3 
 version, mostly because the game doesn't have a multiplayer (at which PS3 sucks due to lack of 
 any gaming support features in PSN, which XBL has) and I really hate my PS3 to just sit here and 
 do nothing :)
  
  So, first things first: graphically, the PS3 version looks fantastic. Some of the things do look 
 slightly better on XBOX-360 (judging by the demo) , but in the end they are so minor, that even 
 I decided they're not worth paying too much attention to (so far the only difference I noticed 
 was the floor in the demo: more defined visible tiles in XBOX-360 version and blurred/undefined 
 tiles in PS3) .
  
  The PS3 version, like I said, looks quite surprisingly great, which is rather unusual for multi-platform 
 release, with solid framerate at apparently pretty high resolution (I can't tell it they use full 
 720p or less, as many titles do lately, but it looks great nonetheless) .
  
  As far as the gameplay goes - there are plenty of problems : ( First and the most annoying is the 
 fact that the main hero is completely helpless, when falls down to the ground, and you loose control 
 over him for a couple of seconds. He gets knocked down by any rocket launched at him, or some of 
 the big guys stomping nearby: your character (called Starkiller) just falls and starts sliding 
 on the ground, as if it was ice, and until he's stopped sliding, you have no control over him at 
 all. Annoyingly, the amount of time during which you have no control is usually exactly the amount 
 of time it takes for your enemy to recharge, so when it's time to get up and take control over 
 the guy - here comes another rocket, and you get knocked down again, and again, and again. Pretty 
 stupid, in my opinion, considering he's one of the most powerful jedi. 
  
  Another problem is he gets stuck on irregularities in the ground: tiniest of the bumps makes it 
 impossible for him to move forward, so you have to jump. And the sliding thing again: you jump 
 onto what seems to be a solid ground, even if slightly inclined - and he simply sleeps off of it 
 like it's made out of ice.
  
  Boss fights are mostly pretty simple, and once you've gained some of the force powers - you'll 
 kick their butts pretty easily.
  
  If the few problems with having your character knocked down, getting stuck on the ground and sliding 
 off the things will ever get fixed - this game will become pretty solid and cool, but until then 
 - 5 is the most I can give it.
  
  P. S. All the fancy things that the developers added to it, like materials behave like real world 
 materials: glass, metal, wood et cetera, and some self-preserving intellect of the enemy, forcing 
 them to grab nearby things, look nice, but really are not quite noticable, and you really have 
 to pay attention to what they're doing to notice that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazyGamer9163
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 28, 2008 8:38 am PT
Review:  SW: The Force Unleashed has a very good story- by far one of the best. The game has great graphics. 
 The graphics are very realistic and the system that glass breaks like glass, wood cracks like wood, 
 etc. is very interesting and fun to watch and throw people into objects like that. The sounds (including 
 voice acting) are done very well. Light saber hits on another light saber sounds very close like 
 it does in the Star Wars movies. The controls are good, but the lock-on system is all right. Occasionally 
 you lock-on to the wrong target or pick up the wrong thing you want to pick up, so that can be 
 frustrating at times as well. The game has a few hard spots that you'll get stuck there for a few 
 hours, but it's mostly a normal difficulty game to play (even on Hard difficulty) . By that means 
 I think they could have made the game harder, even though I didn't try it on very hard yet, but 
 that's because you have to beat the game at least once to unlock it. Overall, despite the normal 
 difficultly and the few frustrating moments with the lock-on system, it's a great game and I really 
 highly recommend getting this game if your a major Star Wars fan like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: naraku2099
Rating: 2.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 11:54 pm PT
Review:  Keep in mind I have always pretty much hated Star Wars, but don't just disregard this review based 
 on that. I downloaded a demo of this game from the PlayStation Store and I thought it was pretty 
 awesome. The thing is, you sometimes may read a disclaimer that says "This demo may not accurately 
 represent the full version of the game." Oh how true that is for the demo they made of this. The 
 demo is good, but the full game is a massacre of gaming. 
  
  First of all, graphics. This game's graphics just fall short of about every other game on an HD 
 console. Jaggies on edges, pop-up, texture pop-up, bland environments and more plague this game 
 after the first two levels. Then you start realizing they have you fighting the same enemy you 
 were on an earlier level, only a different race and maybe a little tougher. I thought this was 
 2008, not 1982. How about a little more variety?
  
  Yeah, it's pretty fun using the force to pick up enemies, electrocute them with force lightning 
 and fling them around with force grip, but it gets old fast. Not to mention the physics engine, 
 as well as ragdoll effects look like crap. Legs do not fold up behind your back, and people don't 
 just collapse where they stand when bashed upside the head by a 1,000 pound chunk of metal flying 
 fifty miles per hour.
  
  Last but not least, I can't stand watching the cinematics in this game. They're obviously all made 
 with completely CGI, and badly. Teeth look like extra large chiclets and facial animations look 
 unrealistic and unnatural. Not to mention the lazy-at-best writing.
  
  I had hoped I'd see something better here than the time I tried watching Star Wars Episode 1, but 
 no. Only terrible writing and boring, repetitive gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FreeFight_RB
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 8:58 pm PT
Review:  I was psyched about this game ever since I heard about it, and can now say that I was not displeased. 
 I'll begin with what I view as the most important, the story. Set between Episodes 3 and 4 it tells 
 a story of the birth of the rebellion. Without going into detail, I'll say I was pleased and surprised 
 by it overall, but felt that it could have used more, some intermission sequences seemed short. 
 The graphics and sound are great, the hum of the light saber and the explosions of tie fighters. 
 Game play however is the area I was most displeased with. Locking onto the correct enemy was a 
 hassle at times, and camera working is constant. Some enemies were overly difficult to kill and 
 seemed to block everything. Proper use of force abilities can alleviate some of those enemy difficulties 
 and are extremely fun to use, and the combo moves are great. Customization of outfit and the light 
 saber were cool features but didn't add much to game play. Overall it was a game I really enjoyed 
 playing and will continue to play. It was highly addicting and I could barely set down my controller. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtneya3
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 7:45 pm PT
Review:  After much hype, The Force Unleashed dropped into the laps of many gamers as something that was 
 good, but unpolished. However, it must be examined what exactly the game set out to do, and despite 
 its misgivings, the Force Unleashed did exactly what the developers at LucasArts wanted it to, 
 give the player an entirely unique sense of Force Control. 
  
  Being a bad guy has never been so enjoyable, as you wield your blazing red Lightsaber and generally 
 embarrass your opposition. The story is pretty straight forward, and regardless of whether you 
 are a Star Wars Fan or not, it is pretty engrossing and certain points will leave you at the edge 
 of your seat, mouth agape. 
  
  The graphics are very nicely rendered, however there are moments on the PS3 when the framerate 
 slows down to a despicable crawl, and you are left to wonder whether or not you are reigning down 
 TOO MUCH badassness on the Jawa populace. These incidents are few, but it is something that disrupts 
 the gameplay and immediately pulls you out of the game. 
  
  The set list of moves is not necessarily broad, but it is large enough to never get boring. Honestly, 
 tossing a storm trooper out of a space station window from 20 yards away with nothing more than 
 a flick of the hand rarely ever does get old. However, the controls lack the crisp response needed 
 to make the fights truly enjoyable. 
  
  Occasionally you will miss or over shoot a jump, press the right button on a fight sequence but 
 miss it because of some timing glitch, or you may simply want to block the raging attacks of a 
 fugitive Jedi only to have Starkiller stand there like an idiot. Very unbecoming of a Jedi Assassin. 
 
  
  The game generally has its glitches. Enemies appear out of nowhere, or simply refuse to die. Stormtroopers 
 get stuck in walls, Starkiller falls through walls, or walls just don't generate fully. 
  
  The game isn't that difficult, however, the later levels will have you swarmed with enemies that 
 each time their attacks to hit you RIGHT after you get up from a previous attack (the same is said 
 for boss battles) . This, coupled with the faulty controls, lead to some pretty frustrating moments, 
 and cheap deaths. 
  
  All in all, my encounter with the Force was very rewarding, and it is definitely something that 
 every avid gamer should at LEAST pick up. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LuongoRox1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 27, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is one of the best games I have played, ever. Like every other game, 
 it has issues, but having over-the-top force powers is just awesome!
  
  TFU has good characters, a good story (albeit a short one) and extremely fun gameplay. Graphically 
 the game is spectacular, and I really noticed this during the cut scene after you pull down the 
 Star Destroyer. The customization in the game (of the lightsaber) is pretty cool, and the Jedi 
 Holocrons add replay value to the game, because if you beat the game, you can load your old save 
 up, choose which mission you want, and jump right into it to find the holocrons you didn't on the 
 first go-round. The lightsaber battles are also some of the best I've seen. Rather than every other 
 Star Wars game, where a hit either hit them, or was blocked, there are clashes, and even force 
 clashes.
  
  Unfortunately, I mentioned there are some negatives, and they can ruin the game at times, but at 
 least there are only two of them. At times the difficulty can go up extremely high, making it near 
 impossible to beat that area without dying quite a few times to find a way to get through. The 
 other is when you use the raw power of the force to pull an Imperial Star Destroyer out of the 
 sky. It is the longest, most boring and tedious moment in the game, when it should've really been 
 one of the best parts.
  
  Other than that, this is a very good game. Anyone would enjoy this game, and Star Wars fans (like 
 myself) will love this game. All I've got to say is, 'Mr. Lucas, if you need something to do, TFU 
 could use a movie.' 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drakerz
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2008 9:38 am PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed is a truly new innovative game developed by Lucas Arts. We've run 
 across many Star Wars games in the past, but when it comes to something we'd only dream of doing 
 (ie: using the force) this title does deliver.
  
  Story - The story for this game is truly remarkable. If you're a fan of the Star Wars series, then 
 I don't need to explain how good it is. The events do take place between Episodes III and IV and 
 does answer a few of our questions, although not all. The cinematics, although short are very detailed 
 down to the bottom of seeing each characters emotion in response to the dialogue.
  
  Controls - The controls for the game fit nicely. Nothing is too complicating, and when it comes 
 to the combo system, button mashing is possible, but if you wish to be more creative, be prepared 
 to explore different bottom combinations in order to make some really unique moves.
  
  Gameplay - Here's where the game hits a snag. Although the game is fantastic, especially the new 
 DMM technology they brought in, we're still plagued with little things here and there that do overall 
 keep this game from being perfect. The targeting system is very loose as you may have seen in many 
 reviews, and is all based on what Starkiller is looking at, not the camera. With a bit of practice 
 however, you'll hit your mark about 85% of the time. Another annoying factor are sometimes the 
 enemies, if you play recklessly and back yourself into a corner, or play on the higher difficulties, 
 even the most none-threatening enemies become just that... a threat. Please note that if you do 
 start your first play-through on any difficulty other than normal, be prepared to die... a lot. 
 Even then, you'll have to play the game twice (there are 2 endings, one good one bad) just so then 
 you can fully upgrade all your powers and become a true Sith Lord.
  
  Sounds - Extremely accurate and truly sets the mood. The music makes you feel more immersed into 
 the Star Wars universe and everything from blaster fire, to metal bending, to lightsaber twirling 
 sounds terrific and on-point.
  
  Graphics - Another strong point to the game. Although it sticks with a traditional linear level 
 design (You're put in a level and have one path to follow) , the environments are detailed greatly, 
 and the textures are absolutely smooth and crisp. One bad thing, however amongst all this good 
 is the "bloom" effect. Many people have seen this in other games and it basically refers to the 
 lighting of a world. It's so high in this game, that sometimes really shiny objects like metal 
 will actually make you squint! This is of course, not even mentioning how much trouble you'll have 
 finding the Holocrons since they blend in with the bloom effect really well.
  
  Overall this game brings a truely unique Star Wars title to the Next-Gen era. Although there could've 
 been more to improve on (the massive frame rate spikes and annoying glitches) it delivers if you're 
 looking for a solid hack-and-slash with a mix of Force Powers. If you're a fan of Star Wars, there's 
 no reason why this game shouldn't be in your collection, otherwise stick with a rent first.
  
  Final Score: 8.5/10
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: internationaal
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 27, 2008 4:52 am PT
Review:  Reviews stating you can play a game through in 6 or 8 hours don't mean much to me. I'm not a die 
 hard player, so even something like Crysis takes me weeks to complete.
  
  So I was quite surprised that I actually played through this game in 4 evening sessions!
  
 
  But it looks nice and really gives you the feel of using your force powers. Nothing beats picking 
 up a stormtrooper and throwing him against a wall! Or picking him up and impaling him with your 
 lightsaber!
  
  Being a PC guy, using the analog stick for walking and turning is a bit awkward and makes it difficult 
 to target at times. Also because not everything you look at is automatically targeted (so targets 
 high up can be a pain to get rid of) .
  
  Only real issue was a terrible slowdown in a hangar scene near the end, but apart from that no 
 technical issues.
  
  My other thing is that the story near the end gets quite unbelievable.
  
  All in all a nice, 
 but short, game which fills in a gap in the Star Wars story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ReaveR777666
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed takes place in the largely untapped gap between Episodes III and 
 IV. The story is quite well written though the ending may dissapoint some. Motion capture of the 
 actors faces and fairly good voice acting lend a hand to the immersive storyline and cinematics 
 Star Wars fans have come to expect.
  
  Graphically, this game is impressive. Though not free-roaming by any means, you really get a sense 
 of the size and scope of the worlds you are on. Lighting plays a key role in how the game looks 
 and shadows are well used for the most part. Enemy reaction to what occurs on the battlefield is 
 done quite well considering the fairly new technology engines used.
  
  In level combat can be performed as you see fit. Whether you choose to barrel through, dispatching 
 your foes with speed and fervor, or simply walk on in an intimidating fashion a la Darth Vader 
 style, brutalizing the enemies slowly and painfully. Some more advanced foes will have you weakening 
 them until a quick time button combination can be used to finish them off. On lower difficulties 
 you will notice the enemy AI struggling to mount any effective offense against you.
  
  Probably your key skill is the Force Grip. There are some targeting issues involved, but as long 
 as you keep in mind that it goes by the charcter's direction rather than that of the camera, you 
 should be flinging enemies and objects about with ease. That being said, there are plenty of environmental 
 weapons at your disposal from small canisters to actual fighter ships, virtually anything can be 
 hurled with the force. Many other techniques, combos, and statistic upgrades will become available 
 as you progress, Along with additional costumes and lightsaber color and power crystals.
  
  I will warn you that there are a couple of points where the game may freeze, (one is very frustrating) 
 but they seem to only occur when first playing through a level and quick reload will usually get 
 you past the lock-up point. Some load times may were on your patience a little but such things 
 fall under the category of 'nit-picking' and can easily be overlooked.
  
  In conclusion, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed offers innovative combat, stunning visuals, and virtually 
 endless replay value (especially for true fans of the series) . I highly recommend this game, so 
 go now and see the true power of the dark side... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mck0016
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 5:20 pm PT
Review:  i say it has 2 b the most awsome star wars game eva made and it is so fun if u take the time u 
 will c that it so awsome. and i have neva plade a game so frekan awsome i say its betta than mgs4 
 or cod4 or even r6v 1-2 and uncharted put together no arguments about that. unless u want argu 
 about that coz ill rize and amack that stuff off ur face. i say it has 2 b the most awsome star 
 wars game eva made and it is so fun if u take the time u will c that it so awsome. and i have neva 
 plade a game so frekan awsome i say its betta than mgs4 or cod4 or even r6v 1-2 and uncharted put 
 together no arguments about that. unless u want argu about that coz ill rize and amack that stuff 
 off ur face. i say it has 2 b the most awsome star wars game eva made and it is so fun if u take 
 the time u will c that it so awsome. and i have neva plade a game so frekan awsome i say its betta 
 than mgs4 or cod4 or even r6v 1-2 and uncharted put together no arguments about that. unless u 
 want argu about that coz ill rize and amack that stuff off ur face. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GDCalibur
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for a good Star Wars game to come a long. The last one I played was probably 
 Knights of the Old Republic. So for me, I was really looking forward to this game. You finally 
 get a game where you can use the Force Powers the way they should of been seen and used.
  
  The game definitely delivers over-top action with the force powers. From crushing AT-ST's , throwing 
 Wookies across bridges , Tossing Storm Troopers of ledges , etc. Pretty much everything you wanted 
 to do with the Force powers you have in this game, cept for the Mind control. But other than that 
 it's all here.
  
  First thing you should notice when playing the game. Is that it looks beautiful. I dunno about 
 the versions below next-gen, but for the PS3 and 360 the game looks great. The Havoc engine really 
 adds a lot of dynamics to the game. You have so many little details going on in the background 
 from the battles down below , or in space its all there. The developers really added a sense of 
 realism to the game as well. Like when you Force Lift a person, if he passes another person, he'll 
 grab on to him. It's little things like this that you can really appreciate.
  
  For the game play. I read a lot of people complaining about the targeting system. While yes, it 
 is a it little bother. It just takes getting use too, and you'll be fine. I think my only qualm 
 is really the camera. While it's not horribly bad, I hate having to move it around behind my character. 
 I find at times to be fighting off screen and having to move my camera to see the enemy. Other 
 than that the game is pretty good. Although camera problems tend to be the biggest of any ones 
 complaints and for good reason. So if you can get past it, like I did. You'll enjoy this game.
 
  
  The game has great action , a solid storyline, cool characters and the music you've known and loved. 
 The game does a great job of bridging the 3rd and 4th movie. You get more answers to the questions 
 I'm sure most had. Like what happened to certain characters during the gap between movies. And 
 among other things.
  But overall I'd have to say this game does justice to the Star Wars series.
  
  8/10
  If it 
 wasn't for the camera problems and the less working targeting system, this game could of been great. 
 It's still a good game, that no Star Wars/ Action fan should skip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bubbabvi
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 26, 2008 12:23 pm PT
Review:  Starwars the force unleashed is a power house game using many new softwares to make it one of the 
 most high tech games made to this day. You can lift not 1 not 2, but three things at a time once 
 you get all the power ups. Once you get the power ups you can hold the lightning for almost 15 
 seconds. it is just an astounding game that will blow you mind. Once you have beaten the game, 
 which takes about 9-10 hours if you stop and have a little fun, you will see that it is not a game 
 you just play through once. You can go back to specific missions and keep the maxed out force powers 
 you had at the end of the game. In fact the only mission you cant replay is the Darth Vader mission, 
 but you can start a new game if you want to play that level again. I may be wrong but i only saw 
 two alternate endings, but I thought i read somewhere that there were 4. This is a game that once 
 you are through with it you will still want to play it on rainy days. It is very fun, esspecially 
 after you get the black lightsaber! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RenfieldX
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is a good game that had the potential to be great. 
  
  The biggest problems that I had with the game were it's short length, imprecise control/targetting 
 and camera angles, and some significant graphical glitches and gameplay bugs.
  
  While I enjoyed the storyline, and liked how they integrated some established characters and locations 
 from the movies (was that Jar Jar frozen in carbonite in Cpt. Sturn's trophy room?) , I found the 
 game quite short. Due to some mixed reviews I rented the game rather than bought it (which is what 
 I'd recommend) . I easily played through this game 2 times in about 10 hours. For such a short game, 
 I also found it slightly annoying to have later levels take place on the same planets as earlier 
 levels. I'd rather have seen them spend more time in development and make each level unique looking.
 
  
  I also found the control and targetting to be imprecise. Due to control issues/camera angles you'll 
 probably find yourself falling to your death when running along narrow ledges, and having a hard 
 time with some of the jumping sequences. You'll often find yourself targetting something other 
 than what you intended due to the imprecise targetting. The camera angles can be particularly frustrating 
 during some of the boss fights as you often can't see the enemies health bar.
  
  The gameplay and graphical glitches are well documented in many other reviews. I found these to 
 be frustrating, and show that the game could have used some more testing and polishing before launch.
 
  
  Overall, I did enjoy the game. There are many great sequences in the game that really make you 
 feel like a powerful badass sith. The graphics and voice acting are solid, and the story was well 
 done, although a tad predictable. I'm disappointed that the game doesn't entirely live up to it's 
 potential. I could forgive the brevity of the game if it was a little more polished. I'd recommend 
 renting rather than buying this game, as the game is so short and I don't see much replay value 
 once you've seen both endings.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-K-Brown
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 26, 2008 10:16 am PT
Review:  This doesn't warrant a long, nor medium length, review. Suffice to say that this game is also VERY 
 short. Not to mention that all of the varied landscapes are duplicated twice each (except Bespin, 
 the 5 minute level.. : ( ) and that the replay value will at most make you only go back to easier 
 levels, where you didn't have the AWESOME powers back then, and then make up for it by annihilating 
 the enemies with wave after wave of suped-up Force energy. That novelty wears off after 6-7 minutes.. 
 Shame.
  
  A poor attempt with some real blatant pi**-taking game design. I mean, did no-one notice how EVERY 
 major level setting was used twice?? No Corusant, Naboo, Tattooine, Endor, Hoth levels.. Only two 
 "Scrap" levels that were very boring, two "Fungus-forest" levels with no real forest feeling. I 
 mean, forests are meant to be BIG. Not ULTRA linear. Linear is good to a degree. But games like 
 this lose repla value when there is nothing to explore. Except little nooks and crannies where 
 all the interesting power ups are kept. Hoot!!
  
  In short, a boring repetitive game with NO interesting theme except that it is Star Wars. In long, 
 a boring repetitive game with NO interesting theme except that it is STAR WARS. And you can kill 
 Wookiees and Jawas!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elby322
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Although I've been waiting for this game for a while, after playing the demo, I started to realize 
 that this game would not be the game Star Wars fans were dreaming about. Bad level design, poor 
 planning, and shoddy lightsaber action ruin this otherwise fun game of amazing potential. 
  
  The object of the game, besides tell a story (a good one at that) , is to feel like a powerful 
 Jedi. Jedi can throw people and stuff around. Jedi can read minds, Jedi can use their lightsabers 
 to cut through almost anything. It's a tall task, and although LucasArts tried, in the end they 
 could not fulfill their destinies.
  
  First of all, there are only two Force powers that actually come from the movie and are fun to 
 use. The rest of them are pretty useless. Instead of inventing useless Force powers, LucasArts 
 should have really, REALLY developed the powers that Jedi are known to use. The mind-changing thing 
 from the movies could have been fun to use in some stealthy kinds of missions. Unfortunately, every 
 mission is very similar: kill, kill, and kill. 
  
  The lightsaber is a weapon of great power that can cut through almost anything. Thus it is a sad, 
 sad disappointment when it feels like i'm hitting stormtroopers with a baseball bat. Also, it takes 
 several hits to kill anyone. And I know that this is a kid's game as well, but it would have been 
 nice if the lightsaber actually sliced enemies into pieces instead of just knocking them back. 
 One more thing... i wish the bodies stayed instead of fading out. More realistic. 
  
  Finally... the one thing that really chapped my hide. I didn't like the double jump and dash options. 
 It just felt too much like a sonic or mario platformer. Sonic jumps. Mario jumps. Jedi walk calmly 
 and defeat enemies with finesse and skill (except for that one scene in Ep. 1 when Obi-Wan and 
 Qui-Gon zoom across the room and into a duct five stories above. George Lucas at his chessy best) . 
 
  
  Anyway, enough with the negative. I gave it an 8 because it is still pretty fun (just doesn't feel 
 like a Jedi game) and the graphics and sound are really nice. There is a lot of clipping but i'm 
 not too picky about that. 
  
  All in all, an enjoyable game. Just a few quirks to work out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: j_cain341
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 9:56 pm PT
Review:  When LucasArts first announced this game, I was concerned because I was wanting Knights of the 
 Old Republic 3. However, as LucasArts progressed in the development of this game, I became intrigued.
 
  
  The game certainly revolutionizes game development because of the new engines. These engines are 
 called the DMM (Digital Molecular Matter) by Pixelux Entertainment and Euphoria by NaturalMotion 
 LTD. Aside from the new engines, I also feel that the game's graphics look crisp and original. 
 Perfect for the PS3 (or Xbox 360) to show off what they can do. The music score in the game is 
 also great. It provides you with the feeling of actually watching a movie as opposed to a game.
 
  
  However, the game does come up slightly short, I felt the game was too short. Although the game 
 has a strong story, you feel as though you miss something in the end. This is why I scored it short 
 from a perfect or even a 9.0. The game is short but sweet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: triple_b2k
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 25, 2008 5:58 pm PT
Review:  Force Unleashed is a good tie in between the 3rd and 4th movies. The story is well created and 
 plays well. However creating something like this leads to a predictable ending (I won't ruin it 
 for anyone who has not played it) .
  
  *SPOILER* *SPOILER* *SPOILER*
  The gameplay was fun. Being able to 'use the force' was a lot of fun. There were a few 'oh snap' 
 moments like throwing enemies off of ledges or fighting Darth Maul. It's nice that you don't have 
 all of these abilities when you start. You earn them along the way and become more powerful. However 
 you can earn them quickly which leaves a second play through all too easy. With these abilities, 
 you can crush enemies in the first few levels you were may have struggled.
  
  The biggest problem with the game is glitches and performance issues. The game froze twice during 
 play through and I often found myself 'falling forever' off of cliffs or falling into the walls 
 and not able to come out. All of these issues meant a restart. Luckily I was able to restart near 
 my last position but playing through some levels again were horrible.
  
  The objectives during the levels don't do much for the game. Collecting holocrons for upgrades 
 and cool lightsaber colours is fun but other objectives are boring or a waste of time.
  
  Once you complete the game you are able to play through it again and retrieve anything you missed 
 (random/silly objectives and holocrons) .
  
  I beat this game in 7 hours. An hour of that could be cut off because on some levels I couldn't 
 make the jumps or died because of silly reasons. If you're good at jumping (unlike me) , you can 
 make it through the levels pretty quickly.
  
  Overall, rent the game and you'll be happy with it. You'll be able to beat it quickly and get most 
 of the bonuses. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndntt44
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 25, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force unleashed did bring up new Game engines and as a new player you will have a 
 promising 14-16 hours in front of you. By that time you will have finsihed the game Twice.
  
  Yea its sad. The game is way too short. I was surprised about the amazing gameplay and I really 
 could feel the Force flowing through that god dam Controller. But the Thrill leaves you after finishing 
 the game.
  
  I dont want to go into the story or more deeply into the single player, as I really loved it.
 
  
  Yet I am frustrated. I spend my money on 13 hour gameplay. Its a game you will put on the shelf 
 and maybe after 6 months you will feel like lightsaber slashing, cause you watched a Star Wars 
 movie at some point. So you might throw the disc back into your PS3 system
  
  The Games lacks extras and most importantly The multiplayer. Once you finish the game you ask yourself, 
 What? That was it? Where did all the extras go?
  
  There are no extras no satsifying bonuses, no levels that you would want to play over and over 
 again. If you do get satisfied by different coloured Lightsabers, then the game is your right choice. 
 
  
  So afterall my advice, if you are a Star wars fan, go get the game, the story, slicing and over 
 powered force moves, do let you feel being part of some badass epic stor. If you dont really care 
 about the Star Wars Saga, leave your hands fom this game, as frustration would most probably over 
 come you, due to nightmares chasing you down, of Starkiller lightsaber slicing your dollar notes 
 one after the other. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemonWarriorOrb
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 25, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I beat the game in a short time and was still pumped about several things, including the story 
 line and most of the game play. Your Character was some what more your own with each new outfit 
 and choice of light saber, but the game was pretty short and the other consoles seem to have more 
 to add to the game. Historic battles and battle mode, I am not impressed we only get the story 
 and nothing else. It just seems for such a great game... there should be more and perhaps several 
 story lines to follow, I would have liked to see him go back to the dark side or betray Vader for 
 the emperor! As for the game play... only one part slowed me down and it took some time to curve 
 around, but along with the cinematic and graphics they blew me away! For non star wars fans... 
 you would be better off getting another game and same goes for the absolute hard core fans, but 
 for those in between fans like myself... it'll be a great game and you'll love bringing down the 
 imperial cruiser! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DJ_Redline
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed takes place after episode 3, but before episode 4. You assume the 
 role of Darth Vader's secret apprentice StarKiller, as he travels across the Star Wars galaxy to 
 familiar and never before seen battlegrounds to carry out the evil orders of Lord Vader. But with 
 all the hype around this game, is it actually worth the wait?
  
  Visually, the game is stunning. I played the PS3 version and was blown away by how well the environments 
 react to your movements. From the start of the game when you first set foot on Kashyyk, the tone 
 is set for the entire game with the lush landscapes and amazing attention to detail on all interactive 
 objects. If you slash trees with your lightsaber, they scorch and shred apart. When you force push 
 gateways, they twist and warp seamlessly. It's great to see this much attention to detail! The 
 lighting in the game is great as well. Reflections from the sun or suns depending on what planet 
 you are on are super realistic and further enhance the gaming experience.
  
  The sound effects and voice acting in the game are extraordinary. The game looks and sounds more 
 like a movie than it does a game. The lip syncing is spot on for the most part and the voices are 
 very well done. Sometimes the Lighsaber sounds don't match the actions on screen, but that's not 
 a big deal in the big picture.
  
  Overall, I think this game is a great addition to the Star Wars franchise. The storyline is stellar 
 and fits perfectly with the rest of the stories in the Star Wars universe. Having said that though, 
 the game is fairly short as I finished it in just under 6 hours. If you are looking for a great 
 action game with some great video sequences then this is the game for you. Rent before you buy 
 unless you are a hardcore Star Wars fanatic! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 24, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  I've been waiting for this game in all honesty, since they announced it. Let me just say, it was 
 worth the wait.
  
  there's a lot of talk about how glitchy it is and how Lucasarts alledgedly "cut corners." The only 
 thing I ever saw wrong was that once my lightsaber was really thin. (This was after I unlocked 
 the black lightsaber by the way)
  
  If I had to give you the best part of the game, without reveling any plot twists, (and there are 
 a number of them!) It would have to be the hilarity of when you see these huge "Purge Troopers" 
 (gigantic black stormtroopers that are about ten feet tall with a minature lightsaber built into 
 their arm) and you feel a since of dread when you see that huge missile launcher on its shoulder 
 and its shield that protects it from all lightsaber attacks. But when you go up and start shocking 
 it with force lightning, and it screams with such a high pitch, you can't help but laugh. The largest 
 enemy with no god of war ending screams as high as a wistling tea pot.
  
  This is the perfect bridge for Episodes III and IV. So all you Star Wars fans: GET THIS GAME!!!! 
 And for all you non star wars fans get this game! Here's just a small teeny tiny bit of the stuff 
 this game has to offer.
  
  1. New tecs that let you enjoy the task of making a huge chain of stormtroopers sreaming and whining
 
  
  2. Punting Jawas (more fun then you might think)
  
  3. You name me one other game where you get to... Oh wait that's the biggest part of the plot. 
 To find out more: Stop reading and go get the game already!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cappadocia
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I looked forward to this, but after seeing some early reviews (I had the UK release a few days 
 after the US) i was worried i would be wasting my money.
  
  I don't think i've been so pleasantly suprised in years!
  
  I honestly believe almost every 
 rating has been too harsh. Although it's maybe not the best game ever, it's returned to the good 
 old days of old fashioned simple fun with an excellent story thrown in.
  
  The story shouldn't be missed for any Star Wars fan. I won't spoil anything, but i only wish i 
 could talk to other people about the possibilities of 'how things happened'. Unfortunately, most 
 non-gaming fans will wonder what the hell i'm on about!
  
  Gameplay wise, it's simple and entertaining. My biggest disappointment is the lack of environments 
 - 5 in all if you include the various Imperial locations as one (plus cloud city i suppose!) . They're 
 all repeated at least once, but at least they're varied each time. And when you return at a later 
 stage you're more powerful so it's a different playing style.
  
  A lot of reviews have given the game flak for its boss battles. I found them hugely enjoyable with 
 a very satisfying finishing move at the end. I would like to see these battles as a duel mode especially... well 
 lets say a favourite Darth from the newer films.
  
  With reference to the Gamespot review, i didn't find the later levels that bad. The only thing 
 i didn't like are the large robotic troopers. They're fine at first, but towards the end you face 
 a few together, each firing rockets whilst you're minding your own business fighting something 
 else. In order to quickly get rid of them I found myself feeling cheap by just shocking them to 
 death without bothering to fight properly.
  
  It hasn't set any new boundries, but in my opinion it's provided the classic, balanced, fun that 
 games should provide. That, included with a story that shouldn't be missed, leaves me giving the 
 game 8.5, only missing out on a 9+ rating.
  
  I planned to play it and trade it shortly after. I think i will be keeping it now though.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghost1294
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 24, 2008 4:50 pm PT
Review:  I agree with pretty much everything the review guy said. Graphics are phenomonal, sound is great 
 story is awsome. However it got annoying that there is a loading screen for every screen change. 
 Fighting in the cramped spaces wasn't as bad as he/she made it out to be, personally I found it 
 an interesting challenge.
  
  How the game begins is great you get to kill Wookies with Vader. WOOT ^_^
  
  The ending gave 
 me a good chuckle. ( (now now no spoilers for you who have not played it.) )
  
  The choice of powers is great. I'm glad they included the Force Lightning power. If they didn'y 
 include that I'm sure they'd hear from alot of unhappy fans out there. The sabre through is another 
 good power that was to be expected from character as Starkiller. However I have little opinion 
 on the Lighting Shield I've rarely used and when I did it made little difference beside using up 
 alot of Force Energy. I do enjoy alot of the combos, the ones where you knock your enemy into the 
 air are abit of a nuisance in my opinion. As the enemies you'll encounter that can be knocked are 
 dead after a few swipes and those with more bite to them are too stubborn or too heavy. (aka Purge 
 Troopers for one)
  
  However as it most other PS3 games it's a good rental but not own. At the moment there are few 
 games that can be enjoyed as a 'to own.' And in my opinion this is not one of them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 24, 2008 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Well the reason why I bought the PS3 has come to pass, The game was fantastic with a few glitches 
 in it. The story was fantastic, the best since KOTOR, but not better, mainly because the story 
 was too short. The makers did make the most of the time spent on the game. The graphics was amazing, 
 the best I've played so far on this The PS3; HOWEVER a few things went wrong. The most intriguing 
 moments including the "good" ending had awful camera angles for example the before mentioned "good 
 ending" the camera pans all the way back and even pans to the top at times seeing close to nothing; 
 why didn't the QI people pick this up is beyond me. This made the finally disappointing in an otherwise 
 very good game. The other problem with the game that it's too easy to beat. You become too powerful 
 that the challenge is almost gone. This however is great for SW fans and non-fans alike. The story 
 is touching and strong the graphics are powerful and beautiful to see even the junk yard worlds 
 are rich in texture and detailed. The voice acting is fantastic and is an experience that will 
 stay with me for a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doogs345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:12 am PT
Review:  Why all the bad reviews, I thought this was a great game. I usually dont like star wars games. 
 The only star wars game i've ever liked was Shadows of the Empire for N64. (ive never played KOTR 
 but have heard only good things} so im kinda of disspointed that it didnt get a better rating. 
 DMC 4 got a better rating. why? i have both games and force unleashed is way better than DMC 4 
 and there pretty much the same style of game wouldnt you say? The story is great its how the rebel 
 alliance started. What star wars geek wouldnt love that story? the controls are a little fustrating 
 from time to time and the camera goes a little wonky. but thats it. Its fun and easy to do combos 
 and leveling up your force powers it awsome. you can acctually tell the difference when you level 
 up a certain power like force lighting for example. anyways great game but should of held out a 
 little while longer to fix some tweaks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Feniks9174
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 10:05 am PT
Review:  I'll be honest, I'm a fanboy. 
  
  As soon as I heard that there was a game coming out that allowed you to play as Vader's apprentice 
 . . . I was sold. I hadn't seen a single video, not one screenshot, I had no idea what the combat 
 system was going to be like or what the premise was. All I knew was that it was a Star Wars Game 
 and you played as Vader's Apprentice. I mean, that's really all you need, right?
  
  Yes and no. The beauty of The Force Unleashed lies truly in the Force itself. As the title implies, 
 the game lets you, like no movie or game before, see the true scope and power of the force. Most 
 fans will remember Vader's line from the original movie, "The ability to destroy a planet is insignificant 
 next to the power of the Force". However, did we ever really get to see such a display of power? 
 No. Yoda picked up an X-Wing, Vader and company threw some equipment and conduits around, Duku 
 chucked some really big rocks . . . but that was about it. Sure, we've seen what a Jedi can do 
 in one-on-one combat (Mace Windu vs. the Droid Army FTW!) , but that's not really enough to show 
 the true supernatural power of a Jedi Master or Sith Lord. Enter Starkiller, a sith that can crumple 
 an AT-ST like an empty beer can, walk through Rancor's in groups without breaking a sweat and pull 
 a Star Destroyer out of the sky and send it crashing to the ground.
  
  While the action in TFU can be incredible, it can also be extremely frustrating. Enemy AI isn't 
 intelligent, in fact it resembles the kids playing fighting games that are too scared to attack 
 and just sit in the corner holding the block button (Question: how do you block a lightsaber with 
 anything besides another lightsaber?) , only attacking when you're laying on the ground. And man, 
 does it take a while to get up. One of the things that frustrated me the most about the combat 
 system in this game, was the length of certain character animations. Getting up, while the actual 
 animation only takes about a second and a half, the game doesn't consider the sequence over for 
 another 1/2-3/4 second. Meanwhile, the character is just standing there unresponsive, waiting for 
 another attack to hit him in the face, once more putting him firmly on the ground. As you can imagine, 
 this makes even the larger and slower opponents hard to get away from. Another issue that hinders 
 the combat system is the block button. By placing it on the L2 button, which became a Trigger with 
 much longer travel on the PS3, it isn't as quick to respond as a digital button such as L1 or Square. 
 By the time you react, press the block button, get it down far enough to send the command, and 
 the animation starts, it's already too late. Boss fights, while fun and epic, suffer from the same 
 issues but on a grander scale. You'll also find yourslef spending a lot of time targeting things 
 that you had not intended.
  
  Visually, the game is absolutely beautiful. The level design is somewhat linear, but rich, and 
 detailed. The junk planet of Raxus Prime truly feels like you're walking around a junkyard. Downed 
 Star Destroyers and friggates litter the landscape as well as AT-ST parts, broken droids, random 
 trash and destroyed equipment. Another planet that you'll recognize from Episode III is extremely 
 colorful and vivid. But here we find bugs and annoyances as well. While the modelling and skinning 
 is well detailed, there are many instances where the PS3 can't keep all the enemies on screen and, 
 consequently, it's common to see enemies fade from view in the middle of a fight or disappear completely. 
 Other minor annoyances include bosses somehow mangaing to block while attacking, lip desynchronization 
 during cutscenes . . . Again, though. These are really just minor issues and don't significantly 
 impact the overall game.
  
  As for sound . . . Well it's a Star Wars game. I think you all know what to expect. The music and 
 sound effects are largely pulled straight from the films. Fans will notice quickly that not all 
 of the characters are voiced by their live action counterparts, and while the voice acting is still 
 solid and believable, occassional slip-ups in Vader's signature accent/tone scream out that James 
 Earl Jones, Carrie Fischer and the Emperor (forgot the actor's name) were not involved with this 
 project.
  
  Underneath the layers of frustration that the combat system throws at you, there's a good story 
 here. Unfortunately, the game tops out at 10 hours max (more, if you're religious about finding 
 every unlockable on the first play through) so the story really has no time to develop as it should. 
 While the overall events make sense, they feel rushed putting the player into more of a viewers 
 position rather than that of the one of the characters. Particularly, I would have liked to see 
 the relationships between the Apprentice and Vader or Juno given more screen time. 
  
  It's worth at least one play-through for any Star Wars fan, but I can expect that most people will 
 put it away and never play it again shortly after. In the end, I just found myself wanting to play 
 Jedi Outcast again . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DigiBlakAngel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 8:45 am PT
Review:  I will keep this down to a short review. While the game has it's oh that is cool moments, it also 
 has it's my god what the hell were the testers thinking letting this through. 
  
  Great graphics. Cool story (except the love interest part which is the standard hey are you female 
 okay I love you) . Now to the problems. The cut scenes in some part bug the hell out of me. MOVE 
 YOUR GAWD DAMN SHOULDER WHEN YOU MOVE. As well the lock on and camera can be annoying as hell. 
 I also have the problem with that delay after some force powers that stop you from using another 
 one. 
  
  I played through twice just so i could get all the holocrons and unlock both endings. Will I play 
 it again. Maybe in a few years. I do hope they take the engine and develop a better game around 
 it. I know they can do better. Ohh and please make it longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gh0st_Of_0nyx
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 7:11 am PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed was In my opinion worth the wait. Lucasarts brings us a a video game 
 experience and movie experience all boiled into one game.
  
  Story- With the story actually being overseen by George Lucas himself, the game already wins in 
 that department. Altho character development is very minimal the bridge creating to fill in what 
 happened between episodes 3 and 4 is told very well with star wars favorites such as darth vader, 
 princess leia and the emperor himself.
  
  Graphics- Top NOTCH. Each level is higly detailed and has its own charms. Character models are 
 well detailed and close attention was payed to keep the vehicles and environments in the star wars 
 universe. The physics are something also worth mentioning lucasarts using the euphoria engine really 
 brings this game to life.
  
  Sound- Amazing The classic John Williams score returns with theme's from almost every star wars 
 movie in the trilogy. PLus an original score to top it off makes the soundtrack even better. The 
 weapons and blaster sounds are all from the star wars universe and sound as they should. Some voice 
 acting on the other hand is hit and miss like Vader for example sometimes you think its James earl 
 Jones and sometimes it dosent sound like him at all. The emperor has the same exact problem.
  
  Gameplay- Great the button layout on the controller isn't overly complicated. After a couple 
 of levels of using force grab it will feel like nothing when tossing storm troppers off a ledge 
 or into a canyon. Camera control is alright altho sometimes it can get frustrating when battling 
 a boss character and they use static camera. Or when fighting a ranchor that takes up almost half 
 the screen. Lightsaber combat feels very good they delegated it to one button (X on the 360) the 
 combos are easy to learn and will become second nature by the time you complete the game.
  
  Overall - I give it an 8.5 the learning curve is easy and hardcore and casual fans of the series 
 can easily understand whats going on. Pick this title up folks it's well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 24, 2008 1:05 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Starwars then this game is a must for your collection. If you are a gamer then 
 you should just probably rent it. I've seen better action games!! Since I am a star wars fan I 
 had to get this game. Was it worth it? Yes, and well no... Why?
  Well as a gamer I was left with wanting more.... I just with the stages were a bit longer. I wish 
 I could have used the force a bit more than what was given to us. Thats not to say that there weren't 
 some kick ass moments because there is. Not alot of them, but theres definately some kick ass moments 
 in this game. what is boils down to is this..... Starwars fan? Buy it! Gamer.... pass. Rent it!!!
 
  Will it turn the whole starwars sixology on its head? Will you be better in the for playing it? 
 Will it some how cure cancer? Will it make you a millionaire? Will you win a brand new car because 
 you play it?
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sendmn23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:35 pm PT
Review:  If you are a fan of Starwars then this game is a must for your collection. If you are a gamer then 
 you should just probably rent it. I've seen better action games!! Since I am a star wars fan I 
 had to get this game. Was it worth it? Yes, and well no... Why?
  Well as a gamer I was left with wanting more.... I just with the stages were a bit longer. I wish 
 I could have used the force a bit more than what was given to us. Thats not to say that there weren't 
 some kick ass moments because there is. Not alot of them, but theres definately some kick ass moments 
 in this game. what is boils down to is this..... Starwars fan? Buy it! Gamer.... pass. Rent it!!!
 
  Will it turn the whole starwars sixology on its head? Will you be better in the for playing it? 
 Will it some how cure cancer? Will it make you a millionaire? Will you win a brand new car because 
 you play it?
  HOW ABOUT A BIG RESOUNDING NO!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vin3dfx
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  Good story, bad game. The game is kind of the short side with no multiplayer. Camera angles are 
 horrible in many situations and get much worse during Jedi battles. The camera seems to pan way 
 out during some of these battles to the point where the characters are very small, even on a 50" 
 TV. Being able to turn on and off your lightsaber would of been nice but not so in here. Having 
 a list of "force combos" to "buy" from seems like something from a bad Spider-Man game on PS1 as 
 well as being prompted on screen to hit certain buttons in order to finish off bosses. The game 
 just doesn't live up to the hype. They built this game up like it was going to be the best Star 
 Wars game ever hands down and its mediocre at best. Man I miss the Jedi Knight series! There was 
 nothing like Dark Forces II when you picked up that saber for the first time. Was hoping this game 
 would recapture some of that old fun and it fell way short. If you're a big Star Wars fan rent 
 it for the story if you're not don't bother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LatusItani
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game a few days after release. After reading a few semi-negative reviews I figured 
 I would just try it before paying $60 for a game I would throw away after a month or two. I had 
 played the demo which I was thoroughly impressed with and was looking foreword to this. I got through 
 the first two levels and my impressions of this game dropped dramatically. I did sit through and 
 actually complete the game itself (myself on the good side while my roommate played evil) to get 
 all the content. Anyway, thats my backstory, heres the review.
  
  Gameplay: (7/10) I had to give this one a low score for several reasons. First and most glaring 
 was the fact that there is a very inoperable lock on. This would have been helpful in the instances 
 where you are gripping a box and you want to throw it at your enemy who could kill you in two hits. 
 Instead you wind up throwing it at some non-existent speck against the back wall while you are 
 pummeled by blaster fire. Also trying to target enemies is a hassle, some of the time you cant 
 lock onto them and the rest of the time you lock onto the most glaring object in the environment 
 thats not your enemy. The Menus have load times (I KNOW!) which are horrendously long and seem 
 pointless because you spend only a few seconds in them assigning your skills which consist of the 
 ability to either kill them better with lightning or kill them better with your lightsabre. 
  
  Graphics: (9/10) Nothing really negative to say here just that the cut-scenes could have used 
 a little more polishing. There were a few clipping errors and the cloth effects could have looked 
 more realistic but now i'm just nit-picking.
  
  Story: (10/10) This was easily the best aspect of the game. A well thought-out piece of writing 
 that masterfully tied everything from the formation of the rebellion to the enslavement of wookies 
 for the creation of the first Death Star into canon with the original three movies (4, 5, 6) .
 
  
  If you like a good story and Star Wars you probably would like this particular game. If you dislike 
 poorly thought out controls, not being able to target anything, and the fact that the new technology 
 (breaking sh*t and having people grab onto each other) is rarely displayed then stay clear of this 
 game. (7.5/10) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: T0NATIUH
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:56 pm PT
Review:  The transitions from in game to cinematics don't go smooth like in other games, sometimes you will 
 find yourself fighting some of the bosses in one side of the screen and when the boss's health 
 is on red the game will reposition your character with no transition in between.
  
  Also on the second set in the battle against Darth vader there were couple of times where he would 
 just stand in the middle platform and do nothing, I also could do any damage to him either.
  
  The tar targeting and camera position gave some problems. There were some part in the game 
 where i couldn't move the camera and it was hard to tell what objects i was targeting.
  
  The game has some of the best art in the star wars franchise, from amazing views to the rocks on 
 the ground; you can see all the details that were put into the game, details that make the game 
 experience different in every level.
  
  This is a ok game. trowing storm trooper off the edge never gets old but if you want to play it 
 I would recommend renting it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeStrike1234
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  I've heard that alot of Star Wars fans were eagerly awaiting this game for a while. Some love it, 
 others hate it. Here's my review and thoughts on The Force Unleashed.
  
  I'll start with the positives. Not the best graphics I've seen but still very, very good, especially 
 the views in-game. You start off in a tutorial level and get to play as most peoples favourite 
 Sith Lord, Darth Vader. You play as Vader's secret apprentice for the rest of the game. From the 
 first moment you use a force power you genuinely feel "powerful", which had been absent in most 
 Jedi-using games before.
  
  The button pressing sequences at the end of boss and mini-boss fights are great to watch. A major 
 plus for the game is how fun it is to play. I think so at least. What's better than lifting and 
 launching a big hairy Wookie over the edge of Wookieland? Well maybe lifting up a Stormtrooper 
 and letting him grab onto his teammates arms. "HALP MEH!"
  
  Great... truly epic storyline in this game. No joke. Better than a lot of the Star Wars films, that's 
 for sure. Another nice feature is the costume and lightsaber menu's, to customize your Jedi/Sith 
 appearance. You unlock some as the story progresses and others from "Jedi holocron" items placed 
 around levels.
  
  
  Now for the negatives. The game is too short for my liking. Each level is fairly long but the fact 
 is, there isn't enough of them. As you progress through the game you will notice that you revisit 
 some planets a second time. The levels themselves are very different, but the setting and appearance 
 of the terrain is basically the same.
  
  The "boss" fights can be entertaining and great to watch at the end, but the gameplay during the 
 actual fight isn't good enough. The bosses basically feel like normal enemies that are immune to 
 alot of your powers and block constantly. Nothing better than blockers. These boss fights are not 
 horrible! That is not what I am saying. They just needed to be better/different than normal gameplay.
 
  
  ----------
  
  Anyway, fun game to play, great story. A lot of memorable moments. While it could have been much 
 better it definitely deserves and lives up to the Star Wars name.
  
  "Pull it outta the sky!"...... love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: radev25
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:15 pm PT
Review:  Not much to say cuz there isnt much of a game to begin with. The story is okay, but in one point 
 during the game you have the option to do something that never happened in the series and would 
 make no sense. I thought they said this ties things up between 3 and 4.. not quite. The gameplay 
 is decent considering the fact you can do many combos, force powers, and hurl multiple objects 
 at foes. It will get repetitive though. This game is supposed to last you 10 hours. That statement 
 itself makes you iffy on getting it. But the truth is its not even that long. i would say about 
 approximately a little less than one hour for all levels. How many levels you might ask? Nine!!! 
 Only nine levels! One thing i must give to SWFU are the visuals it contains. They are great. Yet, 
 it gets repetitive as well because you go on Felucia twice, Kashyyyk twice and the junkyard planet 
 that i forgot the first part but ends with prime. They look a little different but the backgrounds 
 are all the same. This game was a total rip -off. Sixty dollars for a game you can beat in one 
 day? You could have gotten it at Best Buy at 1 o clock and returned it before it closed on the 
 same day. Its definitely not worth it considering its length. The game itself is OK but still not 
 enough to win me over. The 6.0 I am giving it is being generous. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rpm12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  Wow, Star wars: the force unleashed is a great game as people were expecting. The fighting and 
 tactics in this game are so fun and addictive, I might end up playing this game over and over again. 
 Just simple things like throwing stuff at people or throwing the people at the things is just so 
 much fun and it never gets old. These things would not be fun without supreme graphics illustrating 
 them, so yeah, they are good. Music is star wars music so obviosly its good. and of course the 
 story is great. So play this game and you wont be dissappointed, you will have s much fun that 
 you will gain twenty pounds playing it. I am still to beat it so i can not wait to, the story has 
 so much suspence. only two more fun levels to go! just need about 10 more characters.... (wink)
 
  
  Thanks for reading my review,
  rpm
  psn: asherchuck 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:46 pm PT
Review:  Star Wars Force Unleashed has many things going right for it. It takes place of one of the more 
 interesting time period of Star Wars universe that has been untold before and it uses the element 
 that is most exciting in Star Wars universe, the force. 
  
  Star Wars story is interesting, from Episode 4 to 6 and 1 to 3. However, it is odd that there is 
 20 years or so worth of story missing between episode 3 and 4. It's also probably more interesting 
 part of Star Wars story because it is the story of how Empire takes over the Galaxy. Missing that 
 part of story would be similar to Romance of the Three Kingdom if it took out the part where Cao 
 Cao takes over the central by fighting against Lu Bu and Yuan Shao. 
  
  So the game actually takes very interesting story arc of Star Wars universe, but unfortunately 
 the game fails to put some meat to the story.
  
  The problem is that the story is told rather brief. There isn't many details involved with the 
 story. I can't go in details without spoiling the story, so I won't but many events happens without 
 the process of things happening. The story tells what needs to be done and what happens, but nothing 
 about how it got to be done. The bridge between the two would've really helped the game and it's 
 story. 
  
  In other words, it's missing lengthy story telling that's seen in other games like MGS series. 
 Careful consideration in fine details of the story would've really would've made this game feel 
 like an important part of Star Wars universe. Instead, the game feels like cheap fan service or 
 fan fiction like story due to lack of details. 
  
  Story is told with cut scenes and some voice over during the gameplay, but either stands strong. 
 The cut scenes, like mentioned above lacks full details of what's going on in the game. It carries 
 bare essentials and that's it. Not only that, the cut scenes are rather limited to start and end 
 of a level, and almost nothing in between. The voice overs are not much better and it has many 
 problems. The voice overs have terrible glitch where it often fades away or gets cut off. Not to 
 mention it isn't very frequent and it also carries bare essential information. More casual conversations 
 like in Tomb Raider Legend would've really helped the game and the story.
  
  The flaws in story extends to characters as well. The game does have interesting characters, but 
 unfortunately the lack of details makes it difficult for the players to get really connected with 
 the characters. 
  
  Still, the story manages to be interesting. The actors do fairly decent job with acting, and cut 
 scenes show good facial expression, although the characters move and feel little robotic. If the 
 story just carried more meat to it, it would've been infinitely better. It's just unfortunate to 
 see the game not fulfilling the great potential it has. 
  
  Actually the game is all about not fulfilling it's own potential. Whether it is poor design or 
 technical problems, it just fails to meet it's own vast potential. 
  
  First the graphic. The graphic is actually rather odd one to judge. The texture is fairly realistic 
 and the art design is just stunning. However, the character designs are rather bland and boring 
 while many parts of the game has blocky edges that stands out like a thorn.
  
  And then there is the robotic animation. This is mostly during the cut scene, but the way characters 
 move doesn't look very natural. For most of the game the animation is smooth and the game runs 
 fairly smoothly, but few things sticks out, like floaty character movement and at times standing 
 in mid air. 
  
  And the vastly promoted physics engine fails to shine in this game. It is incredible to see metals 
 bend according to the physical "force" it goes against, and different type of destruction depending 
 on the materials, but it just isn't present in the game often. That is bit unfortunate. 
  
  A. I is pretty good. Storm troopers run, hide, and cover. They don't flank you very well but they 
 act somewhat realistically. Especially when you toy with them with force grip. They way they hang 
 on to anything they can is just pure entertainment. 
  
  Put all these together, the game could've been a feast to the eyes, but couple of things like the 
 ones mentioned above just makes the game falls bit short in terms of visuals.
  
  Moving on to the gameplay.
  
  This is where it probably has biggest trouble. The problem is 
 that the force is given to the players, but unfortunately, the level design doesn't fit well with 
 the force that was given. 
  
  Force grip allows players to grab and throw things, but while you do this, you cannot move. With 
 10s of storm troopers around and especially ones with machine gun like blasters, this makes you 
 quite vulnerable. Not only that, the light saber combos themselves also is a problem. Many of the 
 combos have fixed animation and while you are in the middle of animation, you cannot move, which 
 again makes you vulnerable to taking blaster damage. 
  
  Actually the entire game feels like it has FPS level design, but the game is stuck as action game. 
 Neither combos or the force works well with it. Considering the theme, it can't be helped that 
 the most enemies carries guns but as game goes it just doesn't work well.
  
  Also the boss fights are one of the worst I've seen. The epic jedi fights are brittled down to 
 running away, using force, and repetition of cheap shots. 
  
  If the game had more fluid combos that doesn't get stuck in it's own animation, very much like 
 Devils May Cry, it would've been better. If the force power doesn't leave you vulnerable and stuck 
 in one location, the game could've been better. But too often the game forces you remain in one 
 spot helplessly when vast number of enemies swarm at you. 
  
  In the end, the game could've turned out so much better if it had more careful thoughts, balance, 
 and less glitch. Maybe another year of development and less multi-platform effort and concentrated 
 effort into one project would've helped. As of now, the game shows vast potential but unfortunately 
 it remains as potential. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Artemios
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:31 pm PT
Review:  Let's see, where to begin? First of all the game's visuals are purely magnificent, ranging from 
 exotic landscapes to within a star destroyer. Except for the "over the top" visuals Force Unleashed 
 contains an amazing story line; full of twists and turns (explains alot actually) ; awesome force 
 combos and powers such as lighting, lightsaber throw, push, etc. As well as the part where you 
 get to fight as a Sith Apprentice and venture through the Dark Side. What else does a gamer and 
 a star wars fan want, right?!
  Well, even though the game has these interesting features, it also has a few glitches, such as 
 visual and audio glitches. There are times when some garments go through the legs, or when you 
 perform a finishing combo towards an AT-ST, you can see both Starkiller and the AT-ST off the ground 
 a bit. There is also this sense of "repetition" throughout the game. Sure you have these awesome 
 force powers but what you use the most is the lightsaber and even when you do use them, it's the 
 same thing over and over again. I was kind of disappointed with the PS3 version of the Force Unleashed 
 didn't contain any six-axis compatibility. I kind of wanted to to actually use the six-axis to 
 lift my enemies and toss them aside, or to even tear down that humongous Star Destroyer, rather 
 than just using the analog. Still, bringing down that Star Destroyer felt kinda good : 
  Bottom line, the game is not awesome, but very good. It's something I would recommend to gamers 
 and Star Wars fans because of the story line and some cool features! The game may be short but 
 you can go through the levels again and again to unlock certain things by finding holicrones! For 
 those who haven't played it, it's a MUST because it fills in the gaps between Episode III: Revenge 
 of the Sith and Episode IV: A New Hope.
  Enjoy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atrobasinnu
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  The Story:
  I'd say it's right up there with the original trilogy films in terms of a character driven, emotional, 
 action packed plethora of fun. I've loved the original Star Wars films since I was a little kid, 
 and there are very few sci-fi films that make it onto my list ranking above them (Aliens, Terminator 
 2, and maybe 1 or 2 others if I really think about it) . To say this game has such an intriguing 
 story that very smoothly and interestingly ties into both Star Wars trilogies so very well, especially 
 the original, is saying something. If you love Star Wars, you'll love the story this game has to 
 offer.
  
  Voice Acting:
  Top notch. Just plain superb. The voices done by the well known characters (Darth Vader, Emperor 
 Palpatine) are fantastic and sometimes it's difficult to tell it's not James Earl Jones and Ian 
 McDiarmid. Senator Bail Organa, the only character in the films played by the original actor (Jimmy 
 Smits) is fantastic. I personally really like Mr. Smits acting, so unless he screwed up big it 
 was bound to be great. The main characters of Starkiller (voiced by Sam Witwer) and Juno Eclipse 
 (voiced by Nathalie Cox) are my favourite in a video game so far. Firstly, the characters in the 
 game were modeled after the actual actors and done very, very well (seeing pictures of Nathalie 
 Cox and after seeing Sam Witwer in Battlestar Gal; actica the resemblance is near perfect) . The 
 voice acting done by them is also 
  fantastic. Just a great all around cast for the game.
  
  Graphics:
  As far as the graphics go, there is very little I have to say other than they 
 are fantastic. There were a few areas when a lot of stuff was going on when it slowed down for 
 a few seconds, but other that that it was very smooth. Now they are not up to the game play graphics 
 of a game such as Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, but definitely superior to many of these next generation 
 games. The graphics for the cut scenes are, to say the least, amazing. They rival the graphics 
 of the latest films.
  
  Game play:
  I've heard a lot of complaints about the game play through other reviews but I found it to be very 
 enjoyable. If they were to make a Star Wars MMO about Jedi/Sith this is the type of game play I 
 would want to see in it. There were a few issues with targeting, but I found it much easier once 
 you learned that the target is where Starkiller is facing, not the direction of the camera. I'd 
 also like to add that because of the leveling system and the amount of secrets, there is quite 
 a bit of replay value since there is no multiplayer.
  
  Overall, the game is just plain fun and the story is going to be hard to beat. Anyone who enjoys 
 Star Wars in the least should definitely pick this title up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: synistro
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  I love it love it love it.
  
  The hardest part of this game is getting accurate at targeting to pick up something or someone, 
 and throw him right.. but after couple of hours of playing and a bit of brain, it becomes very 
 easy.
  
  Just the fact that you can pick up a guy ( or 2/3 ) throw you're light saber in him, electrocute 
 him, and when you pull back you're weapon you send the man on someone else and he explodes !!! 
 LOVE IT !
  
  The God of War boss killing thing is nice, because it changes the fights and gives them more action, 
 should have been harder, and with more diversity.
  
  The story is awesome, it shows us how everything got to episode 4, it really is the episode 3.5! 
 I do not believe that there is anything else that needs to be said. 
  
  Oh, i just read in another review that you can't do combos that would hit multiple enemies with 
 you're saber.... how much did you play? there are awesome combos with a good timing that will hit 
 multiple enemies, plus you lightning saber.. its great. I even believe they should implant in the 
 movies couple of moves they made in this game!
  
  I love star wars, I love this game. Guys, have fun !!
  
  May the force be with you... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thefjk
Rating: 1
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  ... glad I rented it and I'm returning it tomorrow!
  
  Seriously, this game is not only broken but fails to keep you entertained at all times. It's a 
 hack and slash bore-fest full of annoying gameplay that ruins the enjoyment of the interesting 
 story, flat out. It doesn't even deserve a rating at all... let me illiterate:
  
  After playing as Darth Vader, I was looking forward to playing as the speedy more cooler apprentice 
 character. And I was right to do so, because after that part of the game I just jumped and sped 
 my way through each and every enemy left in the game. Why you ask, because the battle system is 
 so annoying.
  
  Not only are the enemies you fight mostly clones of other enemies, their attacks always leave you 
 stunned allowing them to combo hit you... which isn't so bad, but most of the time you don't have 
 a way of escaping that. Your attacks stun them for a tiny short time which usually doesn't let 
 you do anything but just take hits. The game gives you loads of health so you don't die very often, 
 but that's not an excuse for poor gameplay.
  
  You haven't got attacks that strike multiple foes (unless you count the electricity which isn't 
 what I'm on about here) at once, although they keep teaming up on you. As a Jedi, knocking these 
 guys should be a quick painless task, but it's not. This is made worse by the fact that the game 
 has no way of telling you if you've actually hit anyone because they just keep moving like as if 
 your light saber was a flashlight or something. They have no CLEARLY definable states i. e blocking, 
 attacking, open etc... which makes it hard to know when to strike, leading to really stupid situations 
 where you take hit after hit.
  
  I won't even talk about the force powers and how it's targeting sucks, and I won't say anything 
 about the God Of War style button presses with the bosses... those two are complete and utter disappointments.
 
  
  The two things that I liked about the game that kept me going were the graphics which has a sick 
 lighting engine (yes I'm a graphics whore) and the story... although it wasn't told in a very good 
 way, it felt like it jumped too much in between gameplay. Not too fussed about the music or sound, 
 because hey it's Star Wars man. These positives don't make up for the negatives though, since you 
 can probably watch all the cutscenes from the game somewhere online, so am not even going to consider 
 them.
  
  But yeah, playing this game was annoying on every part, almost forgot to mention the stupid load 
 times for the upgrade menu, and I'll be glad to get rid of it and never look back, ever!
  
  FINAL RATING: 0 (ZERO) I really, really don't like it... at all! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Patrick_H
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2008 5:06 pm PT
Review:  The game was well organist great graphics and game play wish there was more to it thought. More 
 level and secrets but how they tied it to the alliance was great. best in show best in show best 
 in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show 
 best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best 
 in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show 
 best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best 
 in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show 
 best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best 
 in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show best in show 
 best in show best in show best in show best in show 
::::::

::::::
UserName: md872002
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  im not a star wars fan but i still has some expectations for this game and the gameplay and what 
 not but the gameplay was repetitive and boring at times and o yea I BEAT IT IN 5 HOURS AND 51 MINUTES 
 WAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAACK $60 MY A$$ GAARRRRRRBAAAAGE, so to those who rely on these rating systems 
 to decide whether or not they buy a game please please treat this as a disclaimer and DO NOT EVEN 
 DREAM NOR CONTIMPLATE BUYING THIS GAME, AT THE LEAST MAYBE DAYDREAM ABOUT RENTING it cuz trust 
 me your not missing much. the story was alright at best, the enemy AI was alright, the physics 
 was good witht the objects you could move if you could actually target the object you really want 
 to. and the camera is terrible especially if u get knocked down while fighting a large enemy like 
 those ugly things in the one level that looked like a oversized garden lol please people dont bother 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamesMaster4Evr
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 3:17 pm PT
Review:  It's a pretty good game. Star Wars Force Unleashed brings a huge new person into the Star Wars 
 Universe ( ain't it big enough already?) , known by the alias Starkiller. He is Darth Vader's secret 
 apprentice. You get to be him, duh. The game itself is pretty enjoyable, but you'll definitely 
 have a HUGE frustration, namingly bringing down a Star Destroyer. The huge ship is impossible to 
 bring down. I tried to bring it down at least thirteen times. Around the fourteenth I succeeded. 
 Anyway, the game has awesome graphics and a pretty good story. There are so many Jedi Holocrons 
 ( secret items, like force points, powers, lightsaber color/power crystals) . Getting half of them 
 is hard. Knowing where they are is even harder. But getting the Black Crystal is cool. Ugh! Digressing.
 
  
  Good
  ----
  Fun Gameplay
  Awesome Ways to kill enemies
  Good Powers
  Vader's Bad A**
  Nice Story
  
  Bad
  ---
  Campain is short, got both endings in 3 Days.
 
  Glitches are often, I even went below the floor and had to restart
  Frustrating
  
  All in all, it's a good game, just expect frustration.
  
  And for those of you who want to 
 know how to decide which ending to get, don't bother. You literally choose at the end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HorizonShadow
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  I was hesitant of getting the game when i pre-ordered because of all the negative reviews, But 
 I'm glad i picked it up. Not only does this game have a SUPERB story that fits perfectly in with 
 the official story of Star Wars.
  
  
  Difficulty wise, this game really gives you choice, I personally play on apprentice just because 
 it's so fun acting like god and destroying everything, on the harder difficulties, it gets a bit 
 harder, while keeping the game playable.
  
  Gameplay on the other hand had some negatives, While i found nothing wrong with the targeting system, 
 because if i missed my target, i would just hurl what i picked up at the guy, there was a couple 
 flaws with the damage system, i couldn't help but notice, while doing one of the challenges, that 
 charge force pushing 2 people into the same wall, at the same speed, at the same time, kills one 
 and barely scratches the other, but that's my only complaint.
  
  
  Graphics in the cutscenes are beautiful, but downgrade a bit during gameplay, but you never really 
 notice while you're hurling 3 storm troopers into an AT-ST.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeahYeahYouWere
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 12:09 pm PT
Review:  Despite its flaws, Star Wars: The Force Unleashed was a game I did not want to stop playing. While 
 many have been criticizing the game for its flaws, of which there are plenty, I think the game 
 deserves credit for what it did do well, namely, make me want to keep playing. In the end, I enjoyed 
 (and am still enjoying on my 2nd time through) my time with the game. "I'll go to bed in 5 minutes" 
 turned into dragging myself to bed an hour later several times through my first time through.
 
  
  Many have focused on what is wrong with the game - sketchy targeting, poor controls, a bad camera, 
 invisible walls and glitches/bugs being the main points. I found the targeting system to be adequate 
 - it is far from perfect, but I cannot imagine a suitable alternative. It is simply something that 
 must be adjusted to, and once you have gotten the hang of it, I think the targeting works well 
 enough to not detract from the experience. A click-to-cycle through targeting scheme is the only 
 other logical way to preserve left-stick-moves and right-stick-camera controls in my eyes, which 
 would not work. The controls are another target of many, but again I found them to be perfectly 
 suitable. The combo system is very simple, but it is effective. I prefer simplicity over complexity 
 in controls, as I prefer to be paying attention to the action in the game rather than having to 
 rack my brain to remember how to control my character.
  
  The camera in TFU is much the same as it is in other 3rd person action titles (think Assassin's 
 Creed for reference) . The right-stick controls the camera, and the sensitivity is adjustable to 
 meet your needs. Also, hitting the R3 button will center the camera behind Starkiller, which is 
 a very nice feature, which many have overlooked in their criticism. Invisible walls have also been 
 pointed out by many people, but it seems to me that again they were a non-issue. When I did find 
 them, they were in remote locations that I only ran into as I was scouring the levels for Holocrons. 
 
  
  Unfortunately, there are significant bugs and glitches worth mentioning. While I have not experienced 
 many in my gameplay, outside of a single freeze of the game requiring a restart, many others have 
 reported frequent bug and glitching problems. I do not think that it makes the actual gameplay 
 any less fun, it does lead to an overall feeling of lower quality. 
  
  The largest area of concern for me, however, was in the cut scene graphics. The story and characters 
 are both engaging and entertaining. The cut scenes, on the other hand, are pre-rendered and simply 
 do not look as good as the rest of the game. Perhaps I have been spoiled by games such as Final 
 Fantasy, it just seemed as though the cut scenes did not look as good as they should have. I have 
 seen games on previous generation systems that looked much better in cut scene sequences than TFU 
 does. Even more disappointing is the fact that the quality of the cut scenes seems to diminish 
 over the course of the game. Your first story cut scene with Juno Eclipse looks noticeably better 
 to me than your last does. In the end, I would expect a game of this caliber to look as good as 
 any other game out there, and certainly better than any game found on a previous gen console. 
 
  
  Of course, I would be remiss if I did not mention those things that the game does well. The first 
 strong point of the game is the story, which has been carefully scribed to fit into Star Wars "canon". 
 Set between Episodes III and IV (movies 6 and 1 in order of production) , TFU tells the story of 
 Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice, who is tasked with hunting down and eliminating Vader's 
 adversaries. Of course, there is the "together we will rule the galaxy" theme in it, and the standard 
 betrayal/redemption side as well. While the story does not feel completely "new", it is well presented 
 and engaging, and does leave you wonder what happens next. I would often skip searching the entire 
 level for extras so that I could advance to the next cut scene to get more of the story. It will 
 please both Star Wars fans and non-fans, though having seen all of the movies will undoubtedly 
 give the story more impact. 
  
  Another strong point of the game were the environments. The settings for the place have a distinctly 
 "Star Wars" feel, and while there are not a large number of different environments, each of the 
 levels feels very large and impressive and are graphically very pleasing - they look well fleshed 
 out and fit the theme of the game very well. In the end, there could have been more variety in 
 the levels, but each of them is so well done and feels large enough that they are still very enjoyable.
 
  
  I also found the gameplay to be very engaging - the combo system worked well for me, and the Force 
 Powers gave me a sense of being powerful but not all-powerful. Many have said they toned down the 
 force powers much too much, but in the end the Jedi/Sith are not unstoppable. The game finds a 
 proper balance of making you powerful but keeping the enemies from becoming too easy to overwhelm. 
 As you progress through the game, you encounter different enemies with different weaknesses, which 
 keeps your attack strategies and patterns varied - there is not one simple approach that you can 
 "spam" to cut your way through the game. The enemies are never particularly difficult, once you 
 have found the best way to defeat them. Some enemies, such as Purge Troopers, will likely get under 
 your skin a bit, but never become so dominating that the game becomes too frustrating. Of course, 
 there are certain combos that will become your favorites, and you may find yourself using them 
 over and over again, there are some places where they simply will not work and you will be forced 
 to dig deeper into your repertoire. 
  
  Perhaps the greatest characteristic of TFU is that it is simply fun to play. There is a certain 
 satisfaction to be found in using your Force powers to cut your way through rich environments and 
 enemy hordes. Even on a second time through the game, there is still a sense of satisfaction from 
 using the Force to throw a hapless Stormtrooper right into the middle of his buddies to watch them 
 all go flying.
  
  In the end, the flaws of the game keep it from being a truly spectacular play, but the redeeming 
 qualities make it still very worthwhile. Perhaps better cut scene animation and more consistent 
 bug-free performance could warrant a higher score, in the 9 range. The true measure of the quality 
 of a game, though, is mostly determined by whether or not you enjoy playing it, and in that area, 
 The Force Unleashed scores very high marks and overcomes many of its shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michael_EF
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 11:13 am PT
Review:  The game was fantastic, I'm not a big fan of star wars since I only got into them after Episode 
 I. But This games makes you feel right at home with the movies, never played any of the other StarWars 
 games, so I cant compare. Played the demo and enjoyed it, so I bought it for the PS3 and am definitely 
 NOT dissapointed. All the work that they put into the game fared very well and some say the targetting 
 system needed work, (who's doesn't) I think it was fine, I picked up what I wanted to pick up and 
 threw used it in the manner I intended to. Nothing anoying about that.
  
  I think that they should have implemented a user chosen (by preference) light blood (keeping in 
 mind the superheated lightsaber supposidly seals wounds) . As well as a way for the last lightsaber 
 blow to tear the oponent in the trajectory it was going. Obviously they couldn't do it for each 
 move since there would be too many 1 hit-1 kill moves, but at least on the last 'kill blow'. 
 
  
  Replay is good, I keep going back to it and things feel different specially with the added skills. 
 Doesn't seem repetitive at all. 
  
  Great story, excellent graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HA_Chaosagent
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 9:16 am PT
Review:  This game is amazing and very addictive. First thing is the story, which i found is very good, 
 the voice acting is really good and no bad lines. It makes sence to the gap between the two moives. 
 The cut-scenes were good and not too long. 
  
  The gameplay is alsoutly addictive. Throwing the stormtrooper and watching tim on the action cam 
 crashing in more troopers makes you feel something in side. There is a lot of things that you interact 
 thing in the levels. The enemies fall really realsticly and is funny watching them grabing on other 
 troopers when you have them in the air. There is almost you can do in the game. From finding the 
 Jedi Holocron to killing everyone. The boss are hard and fun to fight. The finishing moves on boss 
 are epic and very fun to watch.
  
  The look of the game is amazing and nothing looked out of place. There was a little repetness in 
 what the levels look like but really are you playing the game to like at the walls?! Everything 
 has it's own unquie look.
  
  So this game is a very good game. If you beat games to easily you might want to rent it first. 
 But Star Wars fans shouldn't hestaite. Oh and Punting Jawas is soooo much fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 8:18 am PT
Review:  This should have been one of the best games this year. It's no doubt a great game but there's something 
 missing. Currently PS3 exclusive InFamous looks more intresting than this actually is. So let's 
 get the moans and groans out the way first...
  
  Remember that awesome trailer where Star Killer pulls down a Star Destroyer and flings about a 
 TIE Fighter? Well, you can do that, kind of, and it doesn't look nearly as cool as it did then, 
 I meen you can take down a TIE Fighter, but you can't suspend it in mid air and toss it about wherever 
 you please, it just kind of falls out the sky. Slightly lacklustre.
  
  Another thing that really grates on me is the fact I can not decide how to finish off a major boss 
 or bad guy, I get given Quick Time Events and begins to all feels majorly scripted, a bit like 
 the entire game.
  
  Worlds are very linear, there seems to be no freedom and enemies are very happy to swarm at you 
 until they get 'sabred to itty bitty shreds. It lacks any real challenge and ends up a lot like 
 Dynasty Warriors in the sense it becomes a bit hacky slashy.
  
  It doesn't even have visuals that will totally wow you. Boxes break realistically, door crush when 
 you Force Push them, and the jungle level all look pretty cool, but eveything else looks a bit 
 meh. Star Killer is the lamest attempt at an Apprentice ever, he looks very average and involves 
 the lack of any imagination. 
  
  The story however, is very good. True to the source material and does fill in plot holes and expands 
 the Star Wars history. This aspect makes up for the mediocre everything else, with the addition 
 of your cool force powers.
  
  The Kashyk level, playing as Vader is also a game highlight, but that is at the very begining of 
 the game and eveything just crumbles from there on in. Don't get me wrong Force Unleashed is an 
 extremely fun game and does contain everything that was originally promised, however it feels that 
 it's missing that bit more, it could have been a grand and epic quest for glory, but resulted ina 
 contained and guided videogame with an HUD that shouldn't be there in this day and age.
  
  I wanted be a kick ass Jedi, all I got was a videogame about one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonydannie
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 22, 2008 2:26 am PT
Review:  After having completed this game . I found myself loving about it's story over and over in my head. 
 If people say that episode 3 should have been episode 1 or 2., then this game should be considered 
 episode 2 or 3. But of course it is just episode 3.5. However I loved this great story and would 
 not have seen it ending any other way. (I won't spoil)
  
  The gameplay is your typical hack-slash, And I found it very enjoying. LIke The God Of War games 
 before it. It is nice to play and learn the new force powers you can use. and watch the cool in 
 game cinematics ans you finish off a boss using the ol' hit the button at the right time motif. 
 The problem I had with this game are a couple but I can forgivethiem since most games have the 
 same problems. Camera work was sometimes frustrating but not as much as you might think. HOwever 
 the targeting system just playing sucks. There are moments were targeting is crucial but you have 
 to make sure you are facing whatever it is you are targeting. believe me it was frustrating but 
 once you get done what is needed the game continues on, and the targeting was a thing of the past. 
 Frustrating but tolarable.
  
  Graphics are amazing even on 480p (since my tv does not support 720p) I wish it would have upconverted 
 to 1080i but hey it is not a big issue. the game looked amazing. And the sounds are so Star Wars 
 you cannot help to hum along with John Williams score.
  
  NOw I know this sounds like rambling of an old man here but it is just so much stuff going through 
 my head about this game that I know I probably forgat something. anyways the game is alot of fun. 
 If you are an SW fan do pick it up. If you hate us Star Wars Geeks then Rented at least I assure 
 you, you wont be dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rwmega
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:09 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for Star Wars fans. It's what the prequels could have been. No Jar-Jar 
 no lame farting Huts (at least not yet) . Excellent storyline and fantastic voice acting overcome 
 some of the few clunky parts of the gameplay. For the most part it's all about unleashing the fun 
 parts of the dark side on some challenging opponents and some weak (stormtroopers) sisters. Fling 
 your first enemy into a wall or down an airshaft and you'll be hooked. The first scene - i'll avoid 
 the spoiler - is worth the price of the game itself. The first encounter with a Rancor will give 
 you chills. Don't let the sour taste of the prequels stop you from purchasing this game. Lets hope 
 that some day the 3 books that occur after ROTJ get made into games. Because it's obvious that 
 a game can be just as involving storywise as a blockbuster movie. I'm gonna play it right now cause 
 the Cowboys have made my football day turn from bad to worse! Jerks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theyblizzard
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 21, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Havok is awesome. AI is impressive in "self preserving behavior" and subpar in attacking when our 
 of its habitation zone. I found myself attacking frozen or running away opponents, a few of them 
 remained in place after their life bar went out.
  Performance needs testing. A few times I found myself entering bullet time feature. Although not 
 supported, it is evident in heavy battle or when rendering high detail environment. There also 
 seems to be a very intense calculation going on to generate option, force power, lightsaber and 
 costume windows, makes me wonder if they are generated while the game is running? Load time is 
 so long that I could envision Star Killer changing his own costume and me going to get some ice 
 cream.
  
  Visually, this is a great game. The detail is stunning, environments are impressive. The artists, 
 level and character designers did a great job. The animation tries to pull realism through but 
 something is not quite there, feels like it that 99% realism that is throwing it off.
  
  Overall, its less than it could be. Technologically and visually impressive. Performance-wise not. 
 Story line is rushed and shallow. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silverman2000
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 21, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Ok i play te game once and im in to the second time, yes this is why cause what makes this game 
 replay value is how fun is to use the force, and ofcorce the level up system thats what make it 
 to relay it 2end time. Ok now to the story this game got an imazing story that fits STAR WARS saga 
 perfectly, with drama and action makes the siths look better then the Jedi lol. The gameplay is something 
 new to Star Wars ,after me the way you use the force in this game makes the MOVIES look like kids 
 using the force. I spend 20h on the game now and i ceap playing it again and again. Now the Bad, the 
 game hase good moments and bad ones like the lag some times will you play the game make you go 
 crazy and break the CD lol, and wach up with the menu load times i don't get it that make no sense -------..... Anw 
 i recomend this game to all gamers out there is fun and you will enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazzycmk
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 12:44 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed had a lot of buzz surrounding it for a long time. Any game would have a hard 
 time living up to those expectations. At the end of the day, to paraphrase George Lucas, this game 
 is probably not the "second coming", but it still delivers a lot of great, authentic Star Wars 
 moments.
  
  The story in the game fills in some of the gaps between Episodes 3 (Revenge of Sith) and 4 (New 
 Hope) . This is fertile ground in the SW mythos as there is about a 20-year period in there that 
 is never covered in the movies.
  
  The opening level actually has you playing as Darth Vader which should please most fans. It's a 
 fairly easy tutorial level that also gives you glimpses of the Force powers you will attain later. 
 At the end of the level Vader discovers a young boy who is very strong in the Force. This boy will 
 become Vader's apprentice, with the code name Starkiller, and he will be your playable character 
 for the remainder of the game.
  
  The game quickly flashes forward to a young Starkiller being sent off on his first mission to destroy 
 one of the remaining Jedi who escaped Order 66 from Episode 3. Thus the game begins in earnest.
 
  
  
  Here's the good:
  
  1. The story is quite good. If you are thinking too hard you can poke some holes in the plot as 
 a couple of items present some difficulties with the storyline / timeline presented in the movies. 
 However, it does show an interesting side to Darth Vader. Starkiller is a fairly conflicted individual, 
 and there are moments when you'll have a difficult time figuring out what side he's on. For good 
 measure some familiar faces make an appearance (Princess Leia, Bail Organa (voiced by Jimmy Smits, 
 and others) . 
  
  2. The Force Powers and light saber combos are really cranked up in this game. You can buy new 
 skills by leveling up, completing bonus objectives, and finding force spheres scattered throughout 
 the levels. Skills are separated between Force Powers (grip, push, etc) , saber combos, and passive 
 powers (extra health, faster force power regeneration, etc) . The Force grip ability is particularly 
 impressive. You can throw and fling enemies and objects all over the place. As your skill with 
 grip progress you can pick up multiple object.
  
  3. The list of Powers and combos is quite long. While the list can look daunting, many of the combos 
 build upon one another, so if you learn the basic combo, it's just a matter of hitting an extra 
 button or two to perform a more advanced combo.
  
  4. The game offers a decent amount of replayability. You'll want to go back through just to try 
 out some of the Force and saber technique that you didn't really utilize the first time.
  
  5. The enemy AI is pretty good. Much has been made of the Euphoria engine, but its effects are 
 fairly subtle. I was trying to push a stormtrooper off a ledge and he seemed stuck. I thought it 
 was a graphical glitch until I looked closer and saw he was hanging on to a railing for dear life. 
 You will see a lot of NPC reactions like that. If you close the gap on enemies so they don't have 
 room to shoot you, they will start clubbing you with their weapons. They will also take cover behind 
 crates and such (although with your ability to throw those crates, that doesn't protect them much) .
 
  
  6. Music is a good mix of classic Star Wars and some new themes. Sets a good tempo.
  
  7. Voicework is quite good. The Darth Vader voice is very close to James Earl Jones. I also want 
 to meet the lady who does the voice of Juno Eclipse (Starkiller's pilot and eventual romantic interest) . 
 Sexy, sexy voice. Dialogue is not as clunky as was much of the banter from the movies. 
  
  8. Pacing of the game is very good. New powers are released to you in levels just as you come upon 
 new enemies against which those powers will prove useful. This is a good way to make the player 
 learn to utilize the new skill rather than button mashing your way through the same power / combo. 
 Game also includes a training room where the player can go and try out various skills. Game never 
 feels too easy or too difficult.
  
  9. Boss fights are spectacular. Game gives you all the matchups you would want to see Starkiller 
 face in building up to the final confrontation. You will need to utilize a diverse set of Powers 
 and combos to beat the bosses as many are resistant to certain attacks (for example, grip rarely 
 work on other force users) .
  
  
  Here's the "not so good":
  1. Game is fairly short.
  
  2. There is not a great deal of level variety. You will go back to a few locales a couple of 
 times. In and of themselves the levels are fine, but would have been nice to get a little more 
 scenery.
  
  3. There were a handful of glitches. About midway through the game, my levels were no longer scored 
 and it was not tracking the number of force spheres I found. This may have cost me some bonuses 
 as there are scoring goals on each level that unlock additional abilities if you meet them. Some 
 enemies would just stand there when you went to attack them. Other times, even after you dispatched 
 an enemy, he would just be standing upright like a statue. In the one boss battle, my Starkiller 
 character just disappeared.
  
  4. Gamespot's review was correct that the targeting system can be difficult. The good news is that 
 there are a lot of objects in the environment for you to manipulate. The bad news is that it is 
 often difficult to focus on the object you want.
  
  5. There are a few spots where it is not terribly clear what you're supposed to do. The boss battle 
 involving a Star Destroyer is the clearest example. At various points in that fight it looks like 
 a mini-game opens up directing you to move the left and right sticks in a certain pattern, when 
 in reality you should ignore those and just use the stick to broadly nudge the Destroyer in the 
 proper direction.
  
  6. There are loading times just to access the various menu options. You'll be going into those 
 menus a lot to adjust the skill trees, so these became a touch annoying.
  
  7. The game utilizes a checkpoint save system, and there were a couple spots, particularly in the 
 last level when an extra save point or two would have been useful. Otherwise, you end up fighting 
 the same early foes again and again.
  
  8. As much fun as the game is, much of it feels like the "Star Wars : Episode III" game on speed 
 (although that was not a bad game for in its own rite) . Many of the Force Powers and such from 
 that game are in "Unleashed" but have just been taken to a higher level.
  
  
  I won't comment on graphics. I still need to get myself an HD television, so I don't think I saw 
 this game in all its possible visual splendor. From what I could tell, graphics looked solid, and 
 the cut scenes were slick.
  
  
  All in all, "Unleashed" is a fun time. I'll be going back through it soon at a higher difficulty 
 level. It may not be everything everyone wanted it to be. You may not have glazed eyes when you're 
 done playing (like I did the first time I played God of War) but it's certainly not a lazy use 
 of the Star Wars license just to attract fans. Star Wars fans and general gamers should both find 
 a lot to like in this one.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebirdboi06
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is a game I've been watching since the tech demo videos first hit 
 the web. Having seen those, I could only imagine the kind of things we were going to be in store 
 for. The two technologies that were shown, DMM and Euphoria, do show up in the complete game in 
 every way I hoped, just not as often. 
  
  See, while large metal doors bend to the force like you might expect, and trees splinter when struck, 
 not everything reacts in such a way that seems plausible. Also, enemies disappearing, while understandable, 
 is not what i was hoping for. When you take a stormtrooper down, I for one would like to use that 
 body to mow down other troopers. In the end, the technology is there, but it doesn't seem fleshed 
 out enough.
  
  The actual game's biggest highlight is the official canon storyline. Without giving anything away, 
 it centers around the tale of Darth Vader's Secret Apprentice inbetween episodes III and IV. Vader 
 tasks you with hunting down remaining Jedi in order to reach an ultimate goal.
  
  Aside from the story, the gameplay is pretty sound. The four shape buttons control saber attacks 
 and three of your force powers: Lightning, Jump, and Push. The Shoulder buttons control your Grip, 
 Advanced Powers, Lock On, and Dash abilities. 
  
  The majority of the time, when you marry the controls with the physics work, it's a sweet thing 
 to watch troopers become mere tools for your destructive amusement, but as you get deeper into 
 the game it becomes clear that Lucasarts rounded some corners in development. In no fewer than 
 three places I had bugs which resulted in death of my character or freezing of my Playstation 3.
 
  
  Also, while the cinematics are gorgeous to look at, going into them there's not really a transition. 
 You simply trip upon the script and must go on from there. 
  
  As much as I enjoyed the gameplay and the story of Force Unleashed, the bugs I experienced and 
 the disappointment with DMM and Euphoria I can't overlook the feeling that the game needed more 
 polish. Nonetheless, in my book this is the best action game featuring a lightsaber since Jedi 
 Knight II: Jedi Outcast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raven_squad
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 21, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  This review most likely will contain spoilers for the great story of The Force Unleashed. The story 
 is the main good point about the game, so If you plan on playing it, you may not want it spoiled 
 for you. 
  
  In The Force Unleashed you take on the role of Starkiller, Darth Vader's secret apprentice. Darth 
 Vader took Starkiller under his wing when he was a young child (after brutally murdering his father) , 
 in the hopes of raising him up to his full potential so that he may fight along side him to defeat 
 the Emperor and claim the throne. 
  
  When Starkiller becomes an adult, Vader sends him on quests to single handedly eradicate the dwindling 
 Jedis from the universe. Upon finishing off one of the last remaining Jedis, Vader apparently turns 
 on him. Starkiller becomes confused and begins rallying the rebellion in attempts to destroy the 
 Empire, only to realize this was all part of Vaders plan. 
  
  Thats all i'll reveal about the story. :lol: 
  
  First I'll start off with the good. The art 
 style is flawless. The character models, the environments, the cutscenes... everything is done 
 beautifully. The level of detail put into everything is really amazing. However, level design does 
 not allow you to experience these things to their full extent. They are terribly linear.
  
  Combat. All I can say is, boring. You get a total of three force powers to wield. Force Lightning, 
 Force Push, and Force Grab. Then there is a subset of powers such as force shield and pulse. Unfortunately, 
 thanks to the disgraceful targeting system that *attempts* to know which target you intend to attack 
 based off of you heading, you can rarely connect with these attacks and will find yourself relying 
 on lightsaber attacks to do most of the work. 
  
  Enemy variation is non existant. You get a set of about 3 enemies native to the planet, and the 
 standard imperial enemies that are the same on all planets. You'll kill hundreds of them per level 
 and soon it grows very boring. (with the exception of taking down the massive rancors...) 
  
  Boss battles are pathetic and often are about as challenging as the larger normal foes, except 
 for the ending mechanic which features a sort of context sensitive cutscene. 
  
  Sound design is on par with the graphics and art. The game features an original orchestral score 
 that really is excellent, and usually fits the mood of the action really well. 
  
  A fair bit of unlockable content is offered throughout the game, such as color and power crystals 
 for your lightsaber, costumes, and cutscenes. These things would really only interest someone who 
 loved the game honestly. 
  
  In the end, this game in only worth a rent, unless your a die hard Star Wars fan. The story really 
 should be experienced, but the game isn't worth adding to your collection. 
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dimtri
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 21, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  Star Wars the Force Unleashed is a game which is ........... AMAZING. This game is just the best 
 Star Wars game on the planet. You take on the role of Starkiller who is Darth Vader's secret apprentice. 
 In the beginning you are just hunting Jedi but throughout the game you do other things. Let's talk 
 about the story. The story of this game is the best story on this planet. There are a lot of twists 
 in the game which leave you blown away. 
  Ok gameplay. The gameplay is really fun with all these force powers you can use. Using them is 
 just amazing. The best way to play the game is to put your lightsaber away and use your force powers 
 on every person you see. There are many force powers you can use. Grip, Push, Lightning, Lightsaber 
 Throw and a lot of force combos. I am very satisfied with the force powers. The lightsaber stuff 
 is cool too. There are all these combos you can use. Now the Jedi battles. The jedi battles is 
 in a different camera which i like and it is very satisfying.
  There a lot of things is the game. A lot of characters, A lot of locations and a lot of vehicles. 
 You will be fighting rebels, stormtroopers, droids, wookies, felicians etc. The locations are pretty 
 cool as well. You can be in Kashyk (sorry if i misspelled that) Felicia, Raxis Prime, Space stations. 
 The environments are really great and really beautiful. The vehicles. You won't be fighting a lot 
 of them but seeing them. But the ones that you will fight are the AT-CT and the AT-ST. Finishing 
 those vehicles are awesome. You either crush or slice it in half. And my favorite vehicle that 
 you bring down a............ STAR DESTROYER, you bring down a star destroyer using the force. Really 
 great moment when that thing came down.
  The sound is good. It is what you would expect from a game like this.
  There a couple of unlockables. 
 In the game you will find holocrons which give you force points, lightsaber crystals and costumes. 
 Yes it is true if you hate the red saber you can change it. There are two colors that i did not 
 know existed. Ok you have your  but you also can unlock gold and 
 black! The costumes you mostly unlock when you finish each level but there are two you have to 
 unlock. There are about 13 costumes.
  Each time you level up you get these points which you can upgrade you character. There are three 
 types: Red which are force combos, blue which are the force powers and yellow which are basic things 
 like making your health and force bar bigger.
  Now the bad things of TFU. The game is really short. I beat it in about 6 hours but i didn't get 
 all the holocrons so i have to replay the game and get them. So we are talking about 12 hours. 
 The loading time is unecceptable. It is too long. Let's say that you pick easy level (which is 
 called apprentice level) and you kill guys easily but at some level it is so hard that i keep dying. 
 Imagine how the hard level will be (which is called Sith Lord i think) And lastly this game has 
 some grahpic glitches. Oh i forgot the cutscenes are really cool and beautiful and the graphics 
 are cool too.
  So Star Wars the Force Unleashed is an amazing game which had the stuff to be perfect but did not 
 take advantage of those things. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: puablo
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 21, 2008 7:14 am PT
Review:  When all the reviews online say the same thing, you know there's some truth to them. As with Gamespot's 
 review and the reviews from other sites, this game is amazing to play, but not without flaws. However, 
 the gameplay is the important part and it is extremely fun to play, regardless of the minor issues 
 that exist.
  
  If you played the demo, then you have a feel for what the entire game is like. The joy of tormenting 
 stormtroopers with force powers makes you forget that it's largely a mindless action game in the 
 vein of God Of War. The difference between the two is threefold: 1. It's Star Wars, 2. it's more 
 fun to play, 3. it doesn't have as much polish.
  
  In this day and age, with spectacular games like Metal Gear Solid 4 and Grand Theft Auto 4 in existence, 
 it's almost quaint to boot up Force Unleashed and see a menu system that seems like it belongs 
 on a Super Nintendo. That type of polish - or lack thereof - seems to permeate the entire game 
 design save for the in-game graphics and gameplay. And since that's 90% of the experience, it's 
 easy to look the other way.
  
  Pros:
  - Fighting with the assorted force powers, and force combos, is pure joy.
  - Great Star Wars 
 story.
  - You can revisit any previous level with your advanced powers, and you'll want to, just to punt 
 more Jawas and look for holocrons.
  - Graphics and animation are fantastic - maybe not the best of this generation - but still very 
 impressive.
  
  Cons:
  - LOAD TIMES. Just going to a menu - any menu - has an unacceptable load time. If you want to upgrade 
 force powers, then your lightsaber, then return to the game, you'll have 4 load screens. It's really 
 absurd considering how low-end the menu structure is, and that the game is installed to the HD!
 
  - Short game. It's really a testament to how great the gameplay is that you will not want to stop 
 playing, and the next thing you know you're done in a couple days, or even the span of one weekend. 
 Maybe a longer game would have seemed forced, but I just want to play more!
  - Bad platforming. It very rarely turns into a platforming game but when it does, it is a jarring 
 experience due to how poorly the environments were built for this. There's a point in an early 
 level where you bend a piece of metal out to make a platform, to jump across a gap. Good luck not 
 sliding off that into the chasm multiple times. If you want to get a hidden holocron in the same 
 room, you have to do it 4 more times, on 4 more platforms that will happily slide you off to your 
 death. This isn't the only place in the game like this, but it was the most noticeable example.
 
  - Bugs. For me and several others, there is no bonus objective text in the last three levels. 
 You've got to be kidding me.
  - Targeting. The targeting is based on where the Apprentice is looking, which is mildly annoying 
 but works out fine most of the time. Still, seems rather half-hearted based on how countless other 
 games have handled this.
  - Camera. Actually this got a lot of bad press but I have to disagree with most of the complaints. 
 It does not suffer from the typical camera problems in a 3D game. The real problem with the camera 
 is not that it's bad, but that it's just not ideal. Fighting huge enemies would be better if I 
 could pan upwards to see their health bar, and you can't. Also a first-person view option to look 
 around would be ideal. Otherwise they do make the Apprentice turn transparent if the camera gets 
 too close, which works out well.
  
  It sounds like I am ranting about the Cons, but honestly I just wanted to clarify what all the 
 reviews mentioned. This is an extremely fun game! It was worth playing, and re-playing, for the 
 experience. And that's what games are supposed to be about. Unfortunately I don't often play a 
 game where I consciously notice places where the developer cut corners, and here I definitely did. 
 I still maintain that it's a testament to how good the gameplay is to care so much about what they 
 did wrong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orlin2k
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 20, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is a must have for any Star Wars fan. It is an intense game with a good story. Gameplay 
 can be frustrating, because throwing grabbing and throwing things can be difficult. Light saber 
 action is great and so are the force powers. You can gain more force powers the more you kill and 
 finding hidden holocrons. Force combos also are easy to gain and offer a great and fun way to destroy 
 enemies and all are relatively easy to execute. The game is pretty easy especially on the lower 
 difficulty level. Boss fights can be really frustrating because of the camera angle and these fights 
 offer the most challenge. The levels do repeat but overall I really liked this game. I don't think 
 the game offers much replay value although you can replay earlier levels with all you cumulative 
 power which allow you to really kick ass. I think all Star Wars fan will love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: littlemc6969
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:50 pm PT
Review:  i dont get this score. i though the game at the very least deserves an 8 or 8.5. i think it delivered 
 on everything promised.
  
  force powers are crazy. there is nothing better then just grapping a star ship and dropping it 
 on a fool shoot at ya.
  
  story is good. it keeps you intrested just enough voice acting i thought was well done and music 
 in game was good.
  
  some cons. it is a little frustrating to use your force powers at times cause something will require 
 quick action an your guy will be focused on something else. its no too bad but annoying.
  
  game is also too short. even though story i good action is fast and great its just too short of 
 an expierience. you can beat this in an afternoon if you really try.
  
  in closing buy this game if your any kind of star wars fan. even if your not it is soo fun to just 
 destroy people using the force even haters of starwars should at least rent it. i hope another 
 one like this is comming
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  I am in absolute awe of this game. LucasArts really out did themselves with this game. Personally, 
 I wish this was a little more of a role-playing game than it already is. I cant see what the choices 
 are in this game but the gameplay is awesome. Unfortunatly, the final fight keeps freezing up right 
 as I am doing the cinematic ending against Darth Sidious. All the force combos and powers are fun 
 to use especially of wimpy storm troopers. But no matter how hard I try, I cant every get the dark 
 side ending on any star wars games where there is a choice. I guess this shows that i am just a 
 big softy on the inside.
  
  I completely recommend this game to anyone above 13 months old because you just are not taken seriously 
 until you are at least 13 months and 1 day.
  
  I know I'm funny, I've always thought that is what makes me a winner. (quote from SCRUBS dont sue 
 me) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JSchrowang
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 4:08 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed is an amazing game. The graphics are innovative, the physics engines are amazing, 
 and it boasts some of the most fulfilling Star Wars gameplay since Knight of the Old Republic.
 
  The storyline is what makes this game shine. Watching the plot unfold sent shivers down my spine 
 that I haven't felt since seeing The Empire Strikes Back and Return of the Jedi as a child. 
  Those were two movies that I could watch day after day after day, taking something new out of each 
 viewing. The prequels lost that magic, but now it's back in my soul. I have played through this 
 game once, and I am now playing through it again to really let the entire story sink in. 
  I complained in my review for Metal Gear Solid 4 about the preponderance of cutscenes. I wish the 
 Force Unleashed had hours and hours of cutscenes. I wish this was a real Star Wars movie. The game 
 designers put so many little details in. You can tell that they, too, love Star Wars.
  The gameplay itself is an added bonus. Yes, there are annoying parts that take forever to get through. 
 But there are so many more moments that take your breath away. This is a game that children will 
 play endlessly, and remember for years to come. 
  I am honestly surprised by the negative reaction this game is receiving. Mark my words, The Force 
 Unleashed will be a game long-remembered. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ThaDirtySouth
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 1:22 pm PT
Review:  The game is very short, I rented it and got through over three quarters of it the same night. The 
 first level is cool, playing as Vader, but it's very dry, for whatever reason I guess Vader can't 
 run? The game play is not really responsive at times and it doesn't quite flow right. 
  
  The graphics are really impressive, though they can't hide the game play flaws. Sometimes when 
 force throw objects or enemies, other enemies just randomly fall over and sometimes die. Other 
 times they fall and then get back up and start shooting again. I found it really odd and a little 
 disappointing considering I'm sure it has a lot to do with the coding and obviously corners were 
 cut when enemies' legs randomly give out.
  
  The force powers are sometimes hard to use because the controls are clunky and awkward, throwing 
 people or objects isn't always spot on and you'll probably say to yourself, "Why did he throw it 
 over there when I didn't want it to go over there?" more than once throughout the game.
  
  The MOST aggravating level in the game is one where you have to force pull down a star destroyer 
 while destroying tie fighters that come in waves. It is sometimes hard to kill the Tie fighters 
 because the force powers only work against the ships when the character is facing them not necessarily 
 where the camera is facing.
  
  The camera can be problematic at times but all in all it isn't too bad to deal with.
  
  All 
 in all it's a pretty decent game, fun for a little while but unless you're a huge Star Wars collector 
 fanatic I would only recommend a rent for this title, especially since even Gamespot said it was 
 roughly an eight hour play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  "God of War", "Ninja Gaiden", "Devil May Cry". Those established franchises are critically acclaimed 
 action hack and slashers with a decent amount of puzzles to break up the fighting. "The Force Unleashed" 
 will be familiar to anyone who is a fan of the games mentioned above. You can dash across levels 
 while slashing up bad guys and using force lightning to electrify objects transforming them into 
 small bombs. You can also use force pull to use the enviroment as a weapon and force push to get 
 rid of pesky bad guys running towards you. The brief tutorial level with Vader is just a preview 
 of all the destruction you'll unload is Starkiller, the hero of the story. 
  
  The game is brief, but the two endings, unlockables and numerous difficulty levels will keep you 
 playing for at least 15 hours. If you like "Star Wars" and third person actioners, then "Force 
 Unleashed" is worth a rental, at least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinoid
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 10:32 am PT
Review:  If this were anything other than a Star Wars game, it would be getting much harsher reviews than 
 its gotten - I guarantee it. The fact is, this pretty broken game is saved only by its compelling 
 story and Star Wars trimmings. Sure, throwing troopers around is fun, and some of the forcepowers 
 are enjoyable to use, but the targeting is all over the place, and the boss battles are It's the 
 only game that's ever made me throw down my controller in frustration. The boss battles are one 
 of the most infuriating experiences ever found in a next gen game. 
  
  Lucasarts have made a big thing about DMM (the real-world style in which things detruct) and Euphoria 
 (the AI in enemies that means they have a sense of self-preservation. The DMM works pretty well, 
 but the Euphoria doesn't contribute much to the overall gameplay experience, and I wish they'd 
 spent a bit more time on some of the fundamentals of the gameplay, like targeting the things you 
 mean to target, and sorting the fact that when knowcked down, its timed such that you get up just 
 in time to be hit again. 
  
  If you're a big Star Wars fan, it's probably worth persevering with this game, but if you're just 
 looking for a good game, then this probably isn't it. There are just too many things wrong with 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curiously_sly
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  its oooookkkk... could of been alot better i reckon.... combat system isnt as fast compared to the 
 movie, the auto target system kinda suck i think... you have to be facing that direction to be able 
 to force grab something, which could be very nerve racking sometimes, and not only that, the camera 
 system really is annoying somewhat most of the times but then again thats just me, and this is only 
 just a small review... so hey, hopefully will get a chance to write another one soon...!!! LOL... this 
 is my first review, so please dont be to hard on me if this is not helpful, im only trying too help...!!!! but 
 as any of you can see if you had a chance at looking at my profile, you see that i have really played 
 these games... and i am not writing a review base on lies or rubbish, i have really played these 
 games and have experience to tell you whats good or not base on my long time gaming experience... i 
 got 80 games on my xbox360, normal games... not live arcade... and i got 19 PS3 games...43 PC games...21 
 PSP games... and sadly only 16 DS LITE games... so im pretty sure im qualified to give these review 
 a go-go... even if its my first... well anyways hope it helps for now and in the near future...!!! LOL 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Britcher_Adam
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  The game play isn't bad either in fact sometimes its the most fun Ive had out of my 360, and it 
 looks gorgeous. If Lucas arts could have just sorted out the flimsy targeting system in the game 
 this could have been an instant classic.
  
  This is how Jedi's in the movies shouldve been portrayed, the feeling of possessing ultimate power 
 is spot on. This is how the stories of the prequels shouldve been written, You'll actually care 
 about the characters and appreciate the twists woven into the plot, I cant actually praise the 
 writing and the voice acting enough. The sound is all you should expect from Star Wars too.
  
  The game is fairly difficult, especially in the later levels, sometimes in claustrophobic situations 
 the camera and targeting doest help things. Aside from the odd occasion the check point system 
 is quite forgiving though and you'll never find yourself going too far back
  
  I have really enjoyed this game and will continue to enjoy it for a while longer, so apart from 
 the game engine struggling occasionally and that targeting system this game is freakin awesome, 
 buy it, rent it, but definitely play it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NbAlIvEr10000
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 10:46 pm PT
Review:  This game had been overly-hyped for a long time introducing the somewhat new Euphoria physics engine. 
 The game however does not use enough of its core elements that you could see in most Star Wars 
 movies and commits solely on using the Euphoria physics engine to show off its good parts. The 
 game play however, is too repetitive and shows off a lot of bugs and glitches. The main protagonist 
 Starkiller only rarely lands any good hits on the enemies before trailing off and hitting nothing 
 but air. On a greater; the game's complete overhaul on graphics are pretty good. Textures are pretty 
 well done and the contrast of color in the huge sceneries are very well scripted. Game does have 
 some very noticeable frame rate issues that can throw the player off. With saying that, one of 
 the worst parts of linear-style action is the use of the 3rd person camera which usually drifts 
 off to where you can't even see the enemy you're fighting... it gets pretty annoying pretty fast 
 to keep having to click in the right stick to center the camera behind Starkiller every time.
 
  
  Couldn't really tell you if this game was rushed or not, but Lucas Arts could've stuck with a Jedi 
 Outcast type game style and probably come up with a very suitable game, but this is just lacking. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benwng
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:48 pm PT
Review:  SW The Force Unleased is great at making you feel overpowered as a sith apprentice under Darth 
 Vadar and does a good job tieing together the plot taking place SW episodes III & IV. If you play 
 the game from Sith Lord, the difficulty is about just right for the average gamer. 
  
  My criticisms of the game are that gameplay get very repetitive after awhile. Enemies take 3-4 
 swings of a lightsabre to die (it would have been great to see bodies cut in half/ limbs falling 
 off etc..) The developers obviously wanted to keep the SW series goreless. Boss fight although 
 are beautifully designed are often very one dimensional and rely on you figuring out which one 
 or two specific force powers to use to defeat these bosses. Level designs are repeated half way 
 through the game. The leveling system is very weak, many force powers do not feel that much stronger 
 upon leveling whilst lightsabre customisation is also very basic.
  
  This is a game that will keep you entertained for a weekend. Unless your a SW fan, this game is 
 worth more of a rental rather than a buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ASRCSR
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:33 pm PT
Review:  Lets start off the good parts of Star Wars the force unleashed. There are many good parts of the 
 game like lifting star troopers and watch them hang on to each other star troopers or other objects. 
 The game is really life like and every time you play they do different reactions so even if you 
 play for the 20th time it will be different. You can also beat most of your opponents without using 
 your lightsaber if you can master your force powers. Not to say fighting with your lightsaber is 
 not fun. Fighting with your lightsaber is very fun and you can customize it with different colours 
 and powerups. When ever you fight with other jedi's you can have saber locks which keeps you on 
 your toes. You can also you can get into force power locks which is also fun. The story is just 
 like the movies and that deserves a 10/10. Also the graphic are breathtaking but not as good as 
 MGS4 but still superb. The bad is the minor glitches and the copying of God Of War. The glitches 
 are minor but annoying like in some cutscenes you have a different colour lightsaber but when your 
 fighting its a different colour. When theres a lot of action the framerate slows down. They copy 
 God of War quite a bit with the finishing moves a button press so you go into this little action 
 cam and you have to press the corresponding button on screen. Also the brutal finishes you do are 
 from God of War. In conclusion this game is one of the best star wars games in recent years and 
 is a great pick-up for any star wars fan or newcomer because it bridges the game from Star Wars 
 episode 3 and episode 4. Also this game makes you feel like a true jedi with the power you have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedioutkast
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:55 pm PT
Review:  I have beaten the first chapter and have started the second chapter. I can not put this game down. 
 The last Star Wars game I played and could not put down was Jedi Knight: Jedi Outcast II. SW: The 
 Force Unleashed is 10x better! The force powers are FIERCE and the visuals are even better than 
 the movies. I can not understand wtf the paid reviewers have with this game they must all smoke 
 crack! This game is better than the last 7 games they reviewed here at GameSpot for the PS3 and 
 the only other game that was worth buying before this came out on the PS3 was MGS4!
  
  The first stage of the game you play as Darth Vader and you have to kill wookies. It was hard to 
 kill those friendly guys, it was like killing Chewbacca's friends. 8 ( I got over it when the Super 
 Wookies came out with duel swords and jumping all around trying to kill me.
  
  The graphics are really next gen, like COD4 quality or even better! I really dig this game. Its 
 fun being in the SW universe, especially when the game makers do it right!! I always wanted to 
 join the Darkside but was afraid what my friends might think of me, who cares! PRIDE ONLY HURTS, 
 IT NEVER HELPS!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard they were making this game, I was giddy like a school girl. I knew to keep my 
 expecations reasonable since the thought of being able to control objects with that much precision 
 while having realistic physics applied would be challenging. I remember Psi-Ops doing something 
 like this and it worked fairly well. 
  
  Graphically, it looks amazing. You can tell that they had high goals for artistry in level design 
 and character models. Everything has the feel of a classic star wars movie. 
  
  Gameplay: What's not to love about throwing anything and everything around, blasting your way through 
 doors with force push, and turning normal crates into electrical, exploding bombs with your force 
 lightning? Just the sheer destruction and chaos factor make this game a must rent. The control 
 layout feels right where you would like everything to be while never really limiting you on what 
 you can do or throw. The combo system is deep enough to keep you trying to remember what the control 
 menu said for "Sith Slash". The AI was near abysmal, never really adjusting to your moves. The 
 enemies seemed somewhat invincible at times and at other, were like ragdolls being tossed around. 
 Sadly, there was no middle ground. Shortly into the game, enemies had the ability to nullify your 
 powers, taking away the only joy of the game itself. Very frustrating indeed. It came to the point 
 where certain enemies required repitition of the same dull combos to defeat them, sucking out all 
 the fun of experimenting moves. 
  
  Sound: George Lucas oversaw it. 'Nuff said. 
  
  Now to my gripes; few but enough to bring this game down a few notches. 
  First off, it was way 
 too short. I bought it Monday night, played it for an hour, woke up, played it for another 7 hours 
 on Tuesday and found myself staring at the ending credits. Now, if you're the type to go back through 
 and try to collect every yellow cube to get all the costumes and force upgrades, then you might 
 find a few more hours in this game. But as for me, I was looking for more story. 
  Graphically, there were some major issues with object collision and clipping. There was a level 
 where I went into a smaller ship, threw a barrell in between two pylons and all of a sudden, the 
 framerate dropped to an insanely slow twitch. To help you understand how slow it was, it was reminiscent 
 of a slide show you watch at grandma's house. Afterwards, I tried to reproduce it and low and behold, 
 it happened again. I was left unable to throw anything in that ship for fear that it would get 
 laggy all over again. THEN there were major freezing issues with the final fight involving the 
 emperor. To the point where I couldn't finish the game with the ending of fighting the emperor. 
 It happened 4 times whenever I got close to finishing him. These glitches made it insanely frustrating 
 to play the game. Aside from all this, I still enjoyed my time with Force Unleashed. Although, 
 I would definitely say this only worthy of a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zayparex
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:46 pm PT
Review:  Right I have to firstly say im a mega starwars fan so this review might be slighty bias.. but then 
 again bias or not this game seriously kicks arse! 
  Firstly 
  
  graphics: This being the first real outing of a next gen starwars game it has to be said they have 
 done a really nice job with the high def visuals you just simply immerse yourself in the world 
 they have created, the art behind this game is better than all the prequals put together. Also 
 animations in game were excellently done and everything moved and crushed in a realistic fashion.... 
 Although it isnt without fault, at times it struggles to cope when faced with huge numbers of things 
 going on on screen and cutting issues can somtimes be a kill joy when playing. At one point I had 
 to restart the game because I got stuck in a floor : ( 
  AI: AI I was acctually quite impressed with enemies ran to take cover and took pot shots from a 
 distance but from time to time I would have liked to see them run away a bit more would have made 
 me feel that bit more evil so I could run after them and hacked em to pieces muhahahah!
  
  Story: this is by far the best part of the game... the reason I gave this game such a high rating 
 was because as a starwars fan this is by far the best storyline since KOTOR abiet it a bit short 
 it simply trounces the half arsed attempt lucas himself tried to write for the movies in pretty 
 much every single way! it has emotion, it has plot twists, it has kick arse fight scenes and although 
 you play the dark side it still has a wiff of fun about some of the characters i. e proxy... I would 
 say just enough as not to make them completely stupid (in your face jarjar!) all in all the magic 
 is there to make you care about these characters and you really can feel the conflict of emotion 
 within starkiller and the choices he has to make.
  
  sound: The sound is all familiar to those that are fans of the galaxy far far away John Williams 
 fanfare is unblemished (unlike the clone wars) and is lovingly woven into the game and along with 
 the other movie soundtracks they make a welcome addition to this game. The voice acting is also 
 noteworthy, very little here is wooden however one or two cutscenes are a bit "dry" so to speak 
 lol
  
  
  overall: A BIG GOLD STAR FOR THE GALAXY FAR FAR AWAY! the ending is.... predictable but I would 
 say it ties into the original series and the prequals perfectly... GEORGE FFS GET THESE GUYS TO 
 WRITE YOUR GOD DAME SCRIPTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riseyboy
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying I never review games, but after seeing all the bad scores this one received 
 I just want people to know "DON'T BELIEVE IT" I don't know what's going down, maybe the expectations 
 over time began to drown the final product, but the fact remains this is a great game, good graphics, 
 excellent story, action packed, never a dull moment. I did experience one glitch involving Darth 
 Vader, he got stuck when I attacked him during the final level, I guess the my force was strong 
 at the time lol
  Yes its very short, but as they say, short and sweet hits the spot, its like being part of a movie, 
 scrap that, its probably better than any of the movies.. :D
  
  SO LISTEN UP ALL STAR WARS FANS FORGET THE CRITICS SCORE, BUY IT, PLAY IT, LIKE IT
  May the 
 force be with you
  Risey
  www. pattayarise. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMBladed
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 9:40 am PT
Review:  Alright first off this game is really amazing what they have done and how everything flows its 
 all great. Story line is ok but does have some missing pieces. Some people run off in mid story 
 line. Which never fully tells what happened to them. Other then that there are some glitches in 
 the game one I noticed was when at the "death star" in one of the elevators it glitched out on 
 me and I had a bright white screen with just my guy. Hard to see any thing but it was proly a one 
 time thing. Any way great game wraps up the story line it is sort but they did decent give the 
 qualty of graphics and all the work it took to design it like they did. All and all I would say 
 buy it but wait for a little while there are more games worth it. To name off a couple resistance 
 2, rockband 2, *BIOSHOCK*. REALLY HOPE SOME DAY THEY MAKE A BATTLE FRONT 3 FOR PS3 *IT NEEDS TO 
 BE DONE* 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Born4this
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:53 am PT
Review:  This will be one of my short reviews because I don't feel that anyone really needs ME to describe 
 my opinion of the game. It looks amazing, probably one of the best graphically in a long time. 
 The physics engine is amazing and actually being more involved with the actual usage of force powers 
 is awesome. The story is great, better than all three of the recent movies. All that's well and 
 good and any one who plays it will most likely agree with me to some extent regarding those things. 
 Where my opinion my stand out over others is in one area. The length of the game/story.
  
  I loved the story. It felt to me like an actual Star Wars movie. Twists, turns, involved, everything. 
 The only place where this game sufficiently lack in is the length of it. I know a lot of games 
 out now are 5-10 hour games and that's fine. Most of them really don't need to be much longer than 
 that. However, I truly felt that they could have greatly expanded the story in certain areas as 
 I felt it was slightly being rushed. Not to mention that this game's story could have been presented 
 in an equally epic way as the first Knights of the Old Republic was. This game could have been 
 well over 20 hours rather than the 8 it took for me to beat it. I know that doesn't seem like much 
 of a complaint, however, to me, re-playability of a game is key to it's survival on my video game 
 rack. If it has little to no re-playability, it won't stay in my collection for long. The reason 
 why the length hurts the game's grade as significantly as it does is because I still remember the 
 entire story and everything that happens. I have no need to play it again. Maybe to collect the 
 holocrons but even that wouldn't really present much of a reason for me to play it again. If this 
 game had been closer to 15 hours or so, I would have finished it and then within a very short time 
 I would be heavily inclined to play it again most likely because I forgot a lot that happened in 
 the beginning. And perhaps throwing in a little more ability to do some free roaming. Like around 
 the ship or something like that.
  
  This game was still quite fantastic and I will probably buy it once it's like 20 bucks cheaper. 
 It sounds horrible but the amount that I would play it, I just can't justify 60+ bucks on it. IMO, 
 even 40+ bucks is kind of a lot of money. I look forward to the next Star Wars game and I hope 
 they build off the gameplay of this one and we start seeing a lot of these amazingly awesome games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stlbluesnut
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 8:43 am PT
Review:  force unleashed is a must own for any star wars franchise fan. it may be near the best star wars 
 title to date in my opinion. the graphics and sound are simply stunning. unless you are a die hard 
 perfectionist, the minor glitches in the graphics, such as some texture flashing and pop in, are 
 nearly unnoticeable. although with the loose targeting it can be difficult to pick up and throw 
 the correct object with accuracy using the force grip, it is one of the most fun features of the 
 game. if you are attempting to pick up or throw people or creatures it is amazing to watch them 
 try to grab onto anything in the environment to save themselves, even their comrade, who gets pulled 
 by the arm off the cliff as well. 
  
  the character upgrade system gives you control over your character development and customization, 
 although it is limited. it is a nice touch to be able to choose lightsaber colors and effects and 
 your characters costume. overall, awesome game, even with some shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodama85
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 7:10 am PT
Review:  I had fun with this game. The plot was great and the gameplay was excellent. The targeting was 
 not that hard to get used to, and after I did, I had no problems with it. I only had a few glitches, 
 little stuff like a line coming out of the end of my lightsaber, even when it was off (occasionally) , 
 or barrels that suddenly went flying everywhere with no provocation. I collected all Holocrons 
 and completed all bonus missions and came in at about 10 hours (actual playtime with deaths probably 
 11-12 hours =] ) , so it was a little short, but I wasn't expecting anything like the 300 hours a 
 Final Fantasy game takes to beat =P and I took about the same or less time to beat Assassin's Creed 
 (which sucked) . This game gives you the closest experience (so far) to being a real Jedi! 
  May the force be with you.
  P. S. Force Punting Jawas was fun!!! =P~ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: upiter000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 6:52 am PT
Review:  Star Wars The Force Unleashed is a game which centres around using the force to completely own 
 a wide variety of enemies with 3 types of the force. Lightning, Force Push, and Force Grab (hold) . 
 Two problems are that the camera isn't the best and also a very poor targeting system.
  
  
  Star Wars the force unleashed sports some beautiful enviroments and good lengthed missions 
 but some of the areas may get boring because your playing them again and again. TFU has no replay 
 value at all only a higher diffucultie you can unlock some new lightsabers and costumes but really 
 after you beat the game once you probably wont want to play it a again.
  
  
  The story of the TFU is much different than your average Star Wars story it follows the story of 
 a young sith the secret apprentice known as Starkiller. Darth vador your master has been attempting 
 to fufill order 66 by killing all jedi so the emporer can take over the galaxy but Starkiller an 
 Vador have different plans Vador has been training Starkiller to try to over power the emporer 
 so he can stop some of his madness. The story is told through very well put together cut scenes 
 with magnificent voice acting.
  
  
  Star Wars The Force Unleashed is overall a great star wars possibly the best ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrmattei
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 19, 2008 5:00 am PT
Review:  I love the game... i think gamespot's reviewer was excessively critical with the 7.5.... the only 
 really frustrating thing is the camera... it's a pain to have to constantly readjust, almost as 
 much as you move... but otherwise, i've been playing the wii version and th ps3 versions and love 
 them both... the wii leaves my arms sore (i have tendonitis and arpal tunnel as it is) and the lightsaber 
 fighting mechanic is ok, not as responsive as would like, however the game seems to allow for booboos 
 in that area.. i'm a terrible game player, and constantly die even at the easiets things sometimes, 
 but i've made it to the emperor... got stuck and my arms were killing me so stopped and resumed 
 the ps3..... am at the part (pleasantly surprised) where i actually get to pull down the star destroyer... but 
 they don't make it easy.... not nearly as easy as one might think...
  anyway, am a fan, and love the game... i'm slightly disappointed with the empeorors model though... not 
 nearly as good as the rest... not sure why he got less love?
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fenster2480
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 19, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  What can I say but "disappointed." The gamespot was pretty right on in that the highlights are 
 the new technologies this game brings to the table (physics engine, etc.) and the story is decent 
 (develops poorly in my opinion but the plot is ok) , but why do I feel like it's 1997 when I'm playing 
 this game. Yes, the force combos are entertaining for a while but overall this game is strikingly 
 mediocre and way too reminiscent of 2D side scrollers of years past. The gameplay is loose and 
 the targeting is only accurate when you don't really need it to be. This game is far too one dimensional 
 - relegating it to a simple hack & slash in my book. Maybe my expectations were too high because 
 of all the hype, but man, talk about a let-down. How come developers can never seem to understand 
 what works and is interesting in other games and apply it to theirs? Maybe now that the team has 
 figured out how to employ all these new technologies, they can focus on a sequel that's has some 
 substance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MCsemi_69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:26 pm PT
Review:  This game had a great plot and started the game out perfect but it was too easy to beat with the 
 exception of about three points. Maybe it would have taken longer if I took the time to go through 
 every level looking for all of the force points but I'm a guy who would rather just git r done. 
 I thought it was really cool how they showed the Death Star under consruction based on the timing 
 of the game (between episodes III and IV, just in case someone out there doesn't know) . Which by 
 the way I understand how the movies are only based off the books, granted I've never read them, 
 but how is it possible to kill off a big part of the IV, V, and VI episodes?? The graphics were 
 insane reminding me much of Assassin's Creed just set Long Ago in a galaxy Far, Far away. Hands 
 down I've got to say that my favorite part of the game is going through the Death Star's ginormous 
 laser. It was effing badd ace!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nephilim83
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  This game was an amazing concept. The best parts of this game are the concepts. But when their 
 actually played out it doesn't really feel like your getting a whole lot of anything. For instance, 
 being able to move things around with your jedi powers is an awesome power but actually doing it 
 can get a bit aggrevating as in doesn't really work as smoothly as it should. And the targeting 
 system (as I'm sure you've heard) sucks. You never get what you wanted unless what you wanted was 
 the only thing there. The PMM system where everything shatters and splinters as if it were really 
 being torn apart was an amazing concept. It just doesn't work. Sure stuff breaks, but it doesn't 
 look very convincing at all. It actually can get a little rediculous. And the Euphoria thing that 
 makes your characters react to you... huh? If its there I didn't see it. To me the all the AI seemed 
 to be equally as dumb all the time. There may have been a couple guys at first running from me, 
 but they should have thrown that in there anyway. I have a lightsaber for crying out loud! Basically, 
 the tools and concepts LucasArts developed for this game were still underdeveloped themselves. 
 Therefore, this game was far from actually being complete. They should have put a lot more effort 
 into this and maybe even got a little outside help. Then, I promise you, they would have had a 
 really incredible game on their hands.
  But that's not the case. The gameplay gets repetitive and downright annoying. You have to collect 
 the damn holocron cubes for bonus stuff, and getting to them (though at some points require some 
 good innovation) can be a pain in the ass. Making rediculous jumps from platform to glitchy platform 
 is so not what you want in a serious game, but thats all you get. The sword play is just an endless 
 series of smashing the square button. You can throw in a couple more buttons for some difficult 
 to execute and almost not worth it combos, but your just as well of killing everything you see 
 with lightning and a quick blow with your saber. There's really no skill required to be a jedi 
 in this game. The idiot AI in this game is no competition anyway. They do the same things over 
 and over. They're so predictable. Thats why I don't see what the point in the Euphoria program 
 is. 
  The graphics in this game suffer miserably. Though the landscapes are kind of cool in some spots 
 they're really nothing eye-catching. Sometimes they're so bland that you cant tell the walls from 
 the floor. Everything blends together, and that added with the impossible camera can get extremely 
 disorientating. You really have to fight this most all of the game. There's a definate frame rate 
 issue that is constant as well. Objects randomly disappear and reappear as you move past them. 
 Some enemies disappear after being thrown. Its just weird. The cutscenes are goofy looking, because 
 the character rendering makes the people look like they're made out of playdough. They're expressions 
 are distorted and its a bit distracting. 
  The story is the only redeeming thing here (mostly because its Star Wars, right?) , but even its 
 not that wonderful. Its cool to see what happened between the third and fourth episode, but I was 
 just a well of not knowing. People say this is the best Star Wars game ever. Thats not so. YOu 
 want to play a good starwars jedi game then hunt you up a copy of Jedi Knight II: Jedi Outcast 
 and Jedi Knight: Jedi Academy. NOw, those are some great games for LucasArts to be proud of. Give 
 me an adventure with Kyle Kartan anyday!!
  I'm not trying to totally rip this game. I just was SO disappointed, because they had us expecting 
 so much. This is just a typical overhyped game. Its like Mercs 2 in a galaxy far far away. Nothing 
 great. Its worth playing just because its StarWars and the story's worth checking out. But leave 
 your overinflated expectations at the door. Otherwise, your in for a big let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bothar2
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:59 pm PT
Review:  The story will keep you playing through the glitches and annoying targeting. I think it is definitely 
 one of the best star wars games since knights of the old republic, however, it cannot really be 
 compared to the type of game kotor was. If you are looking for the next best action game this is 
 probably not the right game for you. However, if you are a star wars fan and are looking to get 
 your next fix, than this is the game for you. it adds some awesome story items and things that 
 can be considered cannon. One other thing is the load times... whats up with that. it takes forever 
 for one of the menus to load... i think this, like most of the game, could have been fixed with 
 a few more months in production. All in all its a pretty good game that any starwars fan should 
 play, if you are not a star wars fan, you may still get a kick or two out of it, but you may just 
 want to rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spcrngr
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:55 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a fan boy by any means, I've grown up with the Star Wars movies like many of you and was 
 stoked to see a game that looked this good coming out for my PS3.
  
  The visuals and sound for this game are absolutely amazing, I wouldn't expect anything less from 
 the makers of the films. 
  
  Unfortunately, the game play could use a lot of help. I hope that future patches might help with 
 some of the buggy camera action, but I don't know that it's really possible to fix something like 
 this that is a fundamental problem with the game. I have tried inverting both the x and y axis, 
 and working with the camera sensitivity but so far no luck. One of the worst problems is that the 
 targeting seems to lock at random, it never seems to grab what you want, when you want. The faulty 
 camera system does not help this at all, especially if you get into a tight area, if you get into 
 the end of a corridor you can forget looking or locking onto anything !
  
  I hope that as I get more playing time in I will get a better grasp on the horrific camera/control 
 system, because despite this I really like the game so far. I started out on the easy mode just 
 to give myself more re-playability, I know it sounds silly, but I've heard that the game only takes 
 about six hours to complete and I would like to get as much out of it as I can. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yodurk21
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 11:20 am PT
Review:  I've played this game for about 8 hours now. Here's a quick overview of the good and bad:
  
  Graphics = 10/10. The artwork on Force Unleashed is just phenomenal and it looks gorgeous in 
 action. Almost movie quality environments make this a joy to look at.
  
  Sound = 9/10. While not a perfect score, the music does a great job of bringing the "Star Wars 
 feel", with both the drama and eerie tunes that make us love the series.
  
  Story = 8/10. I still have a ways to go so this could get bumped up (or down) , but overall it's 
 a good but unspectacular storyline. I haven't seen the deep character development that I expected. 
 And anyone with no prior Star Wars knowledge would find it boring. In short, not a single moment 
 in the storyline has wowed or moved me in any way (at least not in the way the Metal Gear and Final 
 Fantasy games do!) .
  
  Controls = 7.5/10. I love it and hate it. I think the concept of how they use the Force into game 
 controls is an awesome idea. For example, moving objects around and hurling them at enemies. And 
 of course, light saber dueling. However, the execution is a little weak with sloppy controls. Targeting 
 can be a nightmare in dense environments, and sometimes I feel like I'm just button mashing with 
 the light saber. The light saber in particularly could've been just so much more! Bring some of 
 the SixAxis functions into it for goodness sake.
  
  Gameplay = 7/10. The gameplay is adequate, but just very repetitive. The enemies are average, although 
 the couple boss fights I've done were both challenging and fun (control issues aside) . 
  
  Overall = 8/10. In short, this game would be nothing if it didn't have a Star Wars story to it. 
 But since it does, it gets bonus points as one of the better Star Wars games I've played (topped 
 only by Tie Fighter & Knights of the Old Republic) . The graphics and artwork are spectacular though, 
 and that alone makes it a treat to play, even if gameplay/controls are mediocre. I sincerely hope 
 they create "The Force Unleashed 2" to feature the same perfect graphics, but with an entirely 
 new gameplay system; perhaps using an RPG-based style as used in Knights of the Old Republic. This 
 game would be a perfect 10 if you combined KotOR gameplay with these graphics. But for now, I'll 
 play through once and probably never touch it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iceman_sith
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  I just loved this game, I couldn't put it down, I started the game on the hardest difficulty available 
 and have only just stopped playing after completing it to do this review I already can't wait to 
 grab it again and try the harder difficulty and unlock the entire game (extra costumes, cut scene, 
 full force powers, lightsabers) .
  
  In my opinion this is the best game we have seen from Star Wars, the advanced technology in this 
 game makes it pure fun to play, playing it on a high difficulty is a challange but even if you 
 die your happy to go another round, it is never frustrating. 
  
  The story, it was just great and with epic cut scenes to match. When I first got the game i kept 
 wanting to call my friends and tell them everything, but by half way I couldn't bare to spoil it 
 and just wanted them to play it themselves. So many classic Star Wars characters, classic Star 
 Wars locations, forget the places you saw in the demo, it gets better no spoilers here but.
  
  This is a must play for any Star Wars fan and I recommend it for anyone else who has a next 
 gen console. 10/10 here. Definitely the best game I have played to date. As for those people who 
 gave the bad views, I assume you just sucked at the game and didn't finish it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ironlightsaber
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 18, 2008 8:23 am PT
Review:  I haven't finished it yet but would guess that I am about 2/3 of the way done and have played it 
 for about 10 hours (not counting 5+ hours of dying and retrying parts) . I have tired to find every 
 hidden bonus and have only gotten about half so that has made my run through a little longer than 
 those rushing to the end. The game is simply gorgeous on my system. The colors, models and sound 
 is incredible. The story is very, very good, with great characters and amazing voice acting. The 
 visuals are stunning. I have just stopped in levels to look at the grand vistas and to take in 
 all the amazing details.
  
  As for gameplay it is like Jedi Knight 2 but more fluid in the the controls and with move force 
 powers and fighting abilities. I have had difficulty targeting and throwing but that comes down 
 to my skills at the game and not the mechanics. When I'm on my A game I have had no troubles pulling 
 off amazing moves. It has elements of button smashing when hacking through a half dozen troopers. 
 There's elements of RPGing but that is limited because it is a structured story and not an RPG 
 game. There are finesse sword battles like the Ep. 3 game (but incredibly beefed up) and talent 
 trees that allows you to unlock new abilities as the story unfolds that add to your combat arsenal 
 and allows you to develop the character to your playing strengths. I didn't think I would like 
 how the boss battles are set up but after experiencing them it is really the way to go, you have 
 to battle them down and then you finish them off in a button sequence that ties to the cinematic 
 way the battle ends.
  
  So far I would rank it 9 out of 10. I hit an invisible wall or two while trying to crawl under 
 structures where they didn't want the players to go. I got stuck in one room because I didn't realize 
 I was suppose to lift an object and had thought I tried but used the wrong stick to move it so 
 I spent an hour dying while trying to trigger the object the wrong way (completely my fault but 
 a target lock on the object would have helped) . I'm looking forward to finishing the game so I 
 can try on the hard two levels and will probably play through it at least twice more.
  
  Excellent game and I hope we get a second title or more. The next one could be "The Force Unleased-Hidden 
 Missions" or something to that effect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gdepaul
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2008 6:01 am PT
Review:  In the room with the circle of trophy heads, grip a head and bring it over to one of the glass 
 cases. Hit the glass hard and soft and in different places. Wow, the physics are incredible. 
 
  This game is great in many ways, but has too many frustrating qualities for me to recommend. Here's 
 a list of things that may drive you nuts:
  1) Menu and level restart load times. The menu load time is unbelievably annoying. 
  2) No map
 
  3) Camera is too close. You can't see what is going on. 
  4) No enemy radar (which would really help since you can't see what's around you. At least you'd 
 know where the enemy is)
  
  ... there is more, but I'm done complaining. The rest of the game is great. The game is a cross 
 between God of War and Psy-Ops. If you can get beyond the annoyance factors, then you'll like is. 
 I just get the feeling that there is something unfinished in the game play, as if the game testers 
 were just ignored. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 18, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  What a world that would be. We could continue to speculate as to how Anakin became the James Earl 
 Jones-voiced force of evil. We could imagine what the Clone Wars were like -- those two words conjuring 
 up so many evocative images -- and wonder where the Force came from. These were good topics of 
 conjecture, harpooned horribly by the answers: Anakin was just a grumpy little boy who hit puberty 
 and went through that awkward "evil phase", the Clone Wars featured a bunch of, well, clones with 
 Kiwi accents and the Force was made up of [deep breath] Midi-chlorians: intelligent microscopic 
 life that lives symbiotically in all things. Yeah, righto tiger.
  Look, all bulldust aside, the prequels were a misstep of epic proportions. As were pretty much 
 all the games that followed for a little while. It's been bloody ages since we've had a decent 
 action-based Star Wars game so at first when word of Star Wars: The Force Unleashed was announced 
 it was given the arched eyebrow of incredulity. Said eyebrow smoothed out a little as trailers 
 came and was in fact replaced by wide-eyed joy when the demo was released on the Playstation Network 
 and Xbox Live. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: christ87lover
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 18, 2008 12:09 am PT
Review:  I was one of the folks who had the game on reserve. I'm a big fan of Star Wars everything, and 
 I was really looking forward to this one. I'm gonna rip off the gamespot method, cause I don't 
 like reading long reviews...
  
  The good:
  The engine is crazy, everything looks pretty good, and it all is so interactive. Its an amazing 
 story line, and you have an option at the end to do one of two things. The force is fun overall 
 in the whole game. 
  
  The bad:
  Its too short! I was done playing the story the same day I got the game! Granted I played it on 
 the easiest difficulty, but even then it was challenging in places. The controls are plain dumb 
 in parts. The targeting in the game is ridiculous. As a Jedi you'd think you'd spend less time 
 looking around at the wall trying to get the exact right perspective to get the little blue box 
 to show up on whatever you're trying to reach. And if its just a little to far away, forget it. 
 There are so many bugs too. Randomly the narrative would just speed up and it was talking like 
 3x faster than normal, which was funny the first time, but annoying when it would happen telling 
 me story plot points or giving me directions. Once I went to fight one of the bosses and I literally 
 could not beat him. Through a glitch, his health bar never came up, so I wasn't getting hit, but 
 I could do NO damage to him. I died, and when i played him again, the heath showed up, and everything 
 worked fine. But should a game that's been released to play still have such major problems? There 
 are a couple of other things like this that make the game so much worse than what it could have 
 been. 
  
  Overall, I would recommend it to a fan, but If you are gonna go spend 60 bucks on something that 
 you think might be cool, save your money and rent it or something. Its not worth that. Its fun, 
 but even if you make sure to kill everyone on every level, you still can beat it in under 6 hours. 
 Granted, you can replay and find stuff to unlock, but its not as exciting the second time. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariojak1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 6:59 pm PT
Review:  I think that The Force Unleashed has been picked on. Until about a month ago, every one was stoked 
 to play it. Then EGM went and gave the game a 5.6 out of 10, and everyonesuddenly forgot about 
 the game. If you ask me however, The Force Unleashed, while not the potentially great game it was 
 meant to be, is still a solid, fun action game that may not be perfect, but is still worth your 
 time.
  
  Lets start with what went wrong. First, I believe that standards have gone way to high. This may 
 explain EGM's and many other site's negative reactions. People expect a triple A title like Super 
 Mario Galaxy or Call of Duty 4 with every release that has even a little hype because of last year's 
 stellar lineup of titles. When a product falls even a bit short, the reviews tend to be disastrous. 
 Really, all that is bad enough with The Force Unleashed so that I should mention is that with 1 
 or 2 boss battles, the boss would become invincible via programming glitch, causing you to restart 
 the battle. This proved the only major detriment to the game's score. The visual bugs and frame 
 rate drops aren't frequent enough to make a significant difference, and JEEZ, maybe it wouldn't 
 kill you to twiddle your thumbs a bit if a loading time god forbid lasts longer than 8 seconds?!
 
  
  Now for what went right; don't trust many review sites, there is a lot. To start, the graphics 
 are pretty spectacular minus a few (very few) visual bugs. Character models are detailed and well 
 rendered, includng the majority of Starkiller's costumes, and the backgrounds are BREATHTAKING. 
 Every bit of the art is right up there with other very artistic next gen titles like Bioshock and 
 Ratchet and Clank Future, and 80% of the non-human objects are photorealistic. Not near photorealistic. 
 Photorealistic. The other 20% is, while not quite as mindblowing, does the job. And honestly, how 
 can we let a few simple frame rate issues and bugs kill a game when half the trple A FPS's on the 
 market have them as well. Plus, while it is an improvement, you definitley don't need an HDTV to 
 appreciate the graphics. They are that good.
  
  The music is also great, making full use of normal or surround sound. Plus, this is the John Williams 
 score with a few great additions. There is no way it can be bad.
  
  The gameplay is intense. While the puzzle elements and a very few action sequences aren't up to 
 snuff with the rest of the game, the majority of the action makes you feel like a cross between 
 Kratos and an energy hurricane. Every unleashed ability supplys a ton of satisfaction, and it helps 
 that the physics are fantastic for virtually all of the game. Seeing stormtroopers hold on for 
 dear life to anything as you blast them into oblivion never seems to get old.
  
  The story is maybe the best part of the game. It tells the long untold story of what happened in 
 the two decades between the two trilogies and of the birth of the Rebel Alliance. Not only does 
 this story surpass the mediocre prequel trilogy in writing, it may surpass the fantastic original 
 trilogy's storytelling as well. This is one of the best stories I've seen in a video game period, 
 and not because I'm a major Star Wars fan; that fact just makes the story even better. The characters 
 have great personality, and the dark tone brings the age old Star Wars story concept of redemption 
 to full fruition. The only thing that could make the story better is if the game were longer, the 
 average play time clocking at only about 10 hours. But otherwise, this is one tale you best hear.
 
  
  All in all, The Force Unleashed is a great action adventure game that simply doesn't seem to live 
 up to the hype because the hype was of  It is far from perfect 
 due to a few technical issues and some slight gameplay problems, but it is still definitley worth 
 your money if your a fan of the genre, and even more so if your a fan of Star Wars, because after 
 hearing this long unknown story, you will never look at "A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far 
 away" the same way ever again. 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fiyerball
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Awesome! Everything I Expected, But It did Have Some Issues. They Were easy to forget about though 
 what with all the punting of jawas. If You're having trouble deciding between this game and another 
 that you want to get, maybe this will help you out: Get This Game. The Story Is Amazing. The Cutscenes 
 are amazing, and the gameplay, well what else do i gotta say besides You Get To Punt Jawas!! I 
 Have Played most, if not all the star wars games ever made for pc and/or Xbox, and this one blew 
 them all away. I Am Having trouble coming up with 100 words about this game because you really 
 dont need that many to say that game is Crazy awsome! Oh And it is a little on the short side, 
 but i don't care cuz the 8 hours it took me to beat it were the best i'v ever spent playing video 
 games 
  
  (Four-Twenty) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: modai119
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 5:22 pm PT
Review:  When you think of Star Wars you first flashback on how amazing the first few films were (EP 4, 
 5, and 6) . This game takes place between EP 3 and 4. You play a role as Vader's secret apprentice 
 named Starkiller, but you already know that. So on to the meat.
  
  You get to play as Vader only for the first level and then Starkiller for the rest of the game. 
 The force powers are nice and flashy but the best part is gripping your enemies and see the Euphoria 
 engine in action! The sad part about it is, you can only do that in the first few levels where 
 it isn't crawling with snipers or have a super trooper shooting rockets at you.
  
  I rated this game 3.5 because it is so flawed in so many ways its almost unbelievable. To start 
 it off I'm gonna start with the controls. Yes it may seem easy as pie in the first few levels where 
 you feel like your impervious to blaster fire, but when your fighting tougher enemies you start 
 to feel the dash, and the lock on feels like there's no real use to it. The only combo you probably 
 ever need is square, triangle, triangle. You don't have much time to do your strong attacks since 
 the enemy always shoot you in the back by the time you hit the 2nd swing.
  
  Now on to graphics. Sure it looks good but the character models look to plain. For an example Juno, 
 and Kota (Before you blinded him) it looks like they just have 2 color palettes for their face!! 
 The costumes for Starkiller has poor design but it is pretty detailed. Also lets not forget this 
 product is another victim to the overuse of bloom.
  
  The sounds not so great really. You don't here Stormtroopers talking much except "There he is!" 
 and the most epic one "Blast him! (Pew pew pew) ". The music for each level and cutscenes are awesome 
 as usual. I mean who hates the score from Star Wars!?!?
  
  Without giving too much detail away. The story felt childish and cliche. Ever watched teen chick 
 flicks? That' what it looked like from the start when Starkiller laid eyes on Juno, and you can 
 really predict whats going to happen later. Maybe I'm too old to like these kind of stories but 
 hey when you finished the game let me know what YOU think.
  
  On with the bugs. 
  1 - Sliding off from little bumps. Death to the mushrooms.
  2 - Can't hit some stormtroopers. 
 Really I was standing right in front of them and my saber did jack. There is a workaround, and 
 that is THE FORCE!!!!!
  3 - Cutscenes can kill you. Seriously, I was on the edge once and the second I gained control of 
 my character I was lunged off a cliff...
  
  After you play it once theres really no need to play it again. The level design isn't open so your 
 basically running down the corridor (kinda) from point A to point B. You can collect Holocrons 
 to get new saber crystals or costumes, but with so many bugs I doubt you wanna go through that 
 kind of hell ever again. If your planning to buy this I'd suggest you to wait till its in the bargain 
 bin or rent it.
  
  Score
  Graphics - 4/10
  Sound - 7/10
  Gameplay - 3/10
  Replay - 1/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FrankCastIe
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:59 pm PT
Review:  Star wars the force unleashed is finally here. It didn't live up to the potential that the critics 
 had for it but that doesn't mean its not a good game. Critics were expecting a revolutionary game 
 that was flawless in every way.. well im sorry every game can't be as good as gta4 and mgs4. But 
 if you are a star wars fan this game is a definate buy. If your not that of a star wars fan i suggest 
 you at least play the game. For 60 bucks you don't really get that much for your money.. any casual 
 player can finish this game in about 7-8 hours easily and after that there is pretty much nothing 
 else to do.. so thats why i was saying if your not a big star wars fan don't buy this game you 
 will only be stopping back by gamestop to trade it in after a few days. Now for the review.
  
  Graphics: Very detailed and destructible enviroments make throwing people around look awesome. 
 The euphoria engine works really good with this game not as good as gta 4 but is still really cool. 
 Overall i give the graphics a 9/10.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is by far the thing that stands out most about this game. If it were not 
 for the awesome force powers and the saber skills this game would be horrible this game is all 
 about action and combat so the gameplay is very fun and addicting. Especially when you get a little 
 further into the game you can start leveling up and upgrading force powers and combos. You can 
 even change the color of your light saber. Overall the gameplay gets a 10/10
  
  Sound: Nothing sounds cooler than lazers flying by your head and the sound of a light saber slashing 
 through wookies.. its just cool. Of course the game has the famous musical scores by john williams 
 which make the experience even more worth while.. it wouldn't be the whole star wars experience 
 without it! Overall i give the sound a 9/10
  
  Playability: This game is very addicting to play but the game really gets old after a while it 
 gets really repetitive in some parts but the thing that really keeps you going is the story. It 
 is a really well done story which probably should have been made into another movie its so good. 
 That is the main focus in the game for die hard star wars fans because it ties into episodes 3 
 and 5 which is really cool. You also get to see a side of vader you have never seen. Overall playability 
 gets a 7/10
  
  Replay value: Moderate
  
  Overall: 8.0/10
  
  I hate to say this but in my honest opinion this game should be a rent or either lower the price 
 a bit for people to buy it.. i mean 60 bucks for a game that can be finished in a day and has no 
 multiplayer i mean come on! They really should have worked on the game longer and added some kind 
 of multiplayer and really fixed some of the game bugs and camera problems but other than that its 
 a really fun game to play especially for star wars fans but its was a tad disappointing but thats 
 just how gaming works. So least of all play the game you will love it for as long as it last! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatton777
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:53 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics, good story, cool characters and controls so bad that I couldn't stand to play 
 this game more than a couple of hours. Force Grab should be the meat and potatoes of this game 
 but they are completely inaccurate. You can only grab what you're targeting about half the time. 
 If you do manage to grab your target the chances of you hurling it at your intended target are 
 more than sketchy. 
  
  Time after time as I went to Force Grab and Throw a nice beefy chunk of metal I cringed waiting 
 to see what messed up path it would take this time. Most the time my 'hurlable' flew in this peculiar 
 off to the side flight path, about thirty degrees off my intended target. Sometimes it would fly 
 straight up. Sometimes it would lamely bounce along the ground after being released. And, once 
 in awhile, it would gloriously fly along it's intended course and blow the holy poop out of the 
 intended target. Unfortunately the latter happened so seldom that it couldn't hope to redeem the 
 failures of this control system.
  
  If you are looking to play a game with some great 'Force Powers' fire up the old XBox and pop Psi-Ops 
 in. That what I'm going to do.
  
  Anyways. Rent The Force Unleashed. Don't by this shiny turd. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asm607
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  I really do not understand what people don't like about this game. I bought on the day it was released 
 and instantly became hooked. Many people have said negative things about the smoothness of the 
 gameplay and the controls, but I must say I disagree. I found that the controls make the gameplay 
 surprisingly smooth and that you can really unleash the force in whatever way you like. I do like 
 that you can do everything however you want and there is no one way to do anything. That is one 
 thing I really love about MGS4 and the same applies here. This game is just really fun. It is exactly 
 what I expected and wanted it to be. Oh, and by the way, the storyline is awesome; especially if 
 you are a Star Wars fan like me.
  Overall, this game is great. The only downside is the lack of game modes (at least on ps3 and 360) . 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Joe_11
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 17, 2008 3:40 pm PT
Review:  It's not a secret that if you are a fan of the Star Wars movies, games and general paraphernalia 
 you are probably interested in this game. 
  
  Like many people I have been watching this game develop over the past year or so. I was convinced 
 that this game was going to set the standard for Star Wars games in the future. I thought The Force 
 Unleashed was going to be the next Knights of the Old Republic. Unfortunately it doesn't meet up 
 to this ambitious goal.
  
  I am not going to say that The Force Unleashed is disappointing, I would rather call it a "diamond 
 in a rough", a game that redeems itself and gets itself into trouble at the same time. 
  
  The main problem in The Force Unleashed is that the game play is choppy. Things slow down when 
 you are doing too many things at once so you never feel totally in control. The game has a tendency 
 to become a button masher as the same combos work over and over so you don't necessarily need to 
 branch out beyond your comfort level. A good game forces you to initially use and learn all of 
 your powers and abilities before specializing while in this game you are safe just using your light 
 saber with minimal interaction of force lighting and force push (unless you are using them in a 
 combo of course) . 
  
  The physics systems in the game are outstanding and though they aren't linked to every object in 
 the game (which is understandable) the statement of their intention is made. There is nothing more 
 fun then picking up an object infusing it with force lighting and throwing it at a Stormtrooper, 
 or hurling Stormtroopers aimlessly around a room. The only time this is frustrating is when you 
 are in a confined space. Occasionally the targeting system feels sloppy or doesn't do what you 
 want it to do. I personally find that I succeed with it enough that it is a minimal inconvenience.
 
  
  The one redeeming quality of The Force Unleashed is the story line. I don't want to give anything 
 away, but I agree with the Gamespot review when it says that The Force Unleashed has a more satisfying 
 story then the prequel trilogy combined. I am a sucker for a good story. The story in this game 
 is so good that it makes it rather satisfying to hack, slash and deal with glitches to get to a 
 new cut scene. Sometimes the cut scene transitions are sloppy or jagged, but they are the number 
 one reason to play this game. 
  
  The one thing I hold against Lucas Arts is that when you delay a game from a June release to a 
 September release I expect the game to then present itself in a way that I understand why that 
 choice was made. 
  
  Star Wars: The Force Unleashed is worth playing and probably has the best storyline of any Star 
 Wars game I have played in the last ten years. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Those who know me may or not be aware that I'm a fan of Star Wars for the last ten years and own 
 majority of the titles that go back to old PC days.
  
  From Jedi Knight to Star Wars Galaxies and of course outstanding Knights of the old Republic.
 
  
  Ever since Star Wars: The Force Unleashed (SWFU- for short) had been announced I kept my contacts 
 on the game progression. 
  My biggest expectations were on Lucas own involvement with the game but my fears were on a lookout 
 when I saw God of War sequences. 
  After purchasing the game I spend the whole day taking my time and finishing it quietly in 8 and 
 a half hours while collecting 95% of holocroms and side missions along side of course main objectives. 
 
  
  I had one costume unlocked and 2 saber colors. Not to shabby.
  
  The good parts: 
  - Stunning visuals. The worlds that you visit, especially those familiar with 
 Star Wars, are absolutely breathtaking. The first time you see Cloud City, it's a sight to behold. 
 
  I only wish more worlds were includes as you will re-visit them in later half of the game again.
 
  
  - As always, top level music and sound effects. There is one major boss battle that I'll not spoil 
 but the atmosphere and music that all fans and none will recognize is memorable on its own.
  
  - The game psychics. When you land on remote Planet which is a space junkyard for the first 
 time I spent a good ten minutes just enjoying all the details the game offers, I have to give credit 
 to excellent use of psychics. When you use fully level Force Push, the glass, containers, roofs, 
 windows, enemies - anything in your path has phenomenal realism to gravity.
  This is very much seen in first level of the game where you take and command a hand of Darth Vader 
 himself.
  
  When you see him blast local inhabitants of Kashyyyk on the bridge, it's quite a sight.
  Gameplay 
 sequences such as finishing moves are straight from God of War and they looks great. One of the 
 best parts of the game are Boss Fights and yes, you will be taking down Star Destroyer by yourself, 
 quite a nice moment.
  
  
  Now then, for the parts that I didn't find much enjoyable:
  
  - Gameplay. This is a hit or miss really. If you're like myself and love what Jedi Knight series 
 had to offer and how Knights of the old Republic handled story or it's content then you will get 
 bored with repetitive X, X, X, Square, Square very quickly.
  
  It's true as you progress through the game you will learn force points that you can allocate to 
 new moves, aerial combos, and few special abilities. 
  
  The problem here is that even thought I tried to memories numerous combination's there wasn't much 
 need for them anyway. 
  The basics get the job done.
  You won't land a long combo on any boss regardless how much you try on medium difficulty and most 
 of the time you will just use 1-2, 1-2 combination that offers you quick damage and get away from 
 danger quickly.
  And there will be lots of it, in fact the enemies are quite frustrating to deal with since majority 
 of them seems to be resistant to any kind of force, but even fully upgraded with saber damage and 
 damage reduction abilities they still manage to take away lots of health from you.
  
  There are also times when stronger enemies such as AT-AT (two legged tall machines) or Rancor will 
 knock you down and before you can recover from the ground they will knock you out again in a chain 
 where you will lose a lot of health and die regardless how skilled you might be. 
  
  - Story. I read a few reviews were they were claiming that the story is better in SWFU then all 
 three latest movies combined. 
  Maybe we were watching different films because the actual story in the game is predictable and 
 quite week compare to even four year old Katarn story from Jedi Knight series.
  Maybe it's because all the budget went to outstanding visuals and psychics that the actual story 
 and gameplay were not really worked on well. 
  
  The voice acting is decent, but definitely nothing to awe about. 
  
  No multiplayer or any 
 kind of LAN gameplay. 
  
  This is a big one for me. If you have noticed I'm still enjoying Jedi Academy and before that Jedi 
 Outcast. There are still quite a good amount of people that are creating clans and have great time 
 Online. 
  
  I can't express how disappointing It is for me after finishing the game to only stare at EXTRA 
 menu screen that barely offers minor art gallery.
  
  This wouldn't be such a problem if Force Unleashed offered something more then 8 hours game. I 
 replayed the game one more time on hard mode and finished it in even less time since you can just 
 skip majority of fighting.
  There really isn't any life left in the game after the first play through. You do keep your powers 
 in Continue mode which starts you off from beginning, but that won't do much unless you really 
 are still on pressing the same button over and over and really don't mind it.
  
  In conclusion I have few more words to add.
  
  Unless you do have money to spend around or 
 are a serious Star Wars fan and collector, I strongly recommend the game as a weekend rent. 
  
  Repetitive gameplay, so-so story, no online and short single player with little to none replay 
 value keep this game from being Excellent.
  
  This is just one of many proofs that Graphics alone make a great game do not, as our little green 
 friend would say.
  
  It's still a good game that shouldn't be overlooked by actions fans or Star Wars enthusiast. 
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robgam3r
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 12:03 pm PT
Review:  sup every one this gae rocks but to short and some minor game issues like floating in air over 
 ledge get stuck on a down hill slope and sliding forever lol well i would have gave it a 10 if 
 it was longer i love to feel of the game crushing everything at my will with the force and lightsaber 
 hahahah so kool i just wish they would think about gamers more then the sales they know people 
 play and buy alot of games these days and they r over priced but i just wish it was like the old 
 snes days when the story had u in the game over the looks but i guess that is the way of the world 
 i am tired of buying a game and beating it in the same day given i play it all night but still 
 well i am done crying i hope armour core 4 the answer is  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtg246x
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 17, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game does a few things that star wars nerds have been waiting to do for ever... Be evil. It 
 plays like a typical hack and slash but there are lots of different ways to cut down your enemies. 
 Overall the game looks awesome, feels awesome, and delivers the experience you were looking for 
 when you bought it. It may be short lived but it definitely is worth renting/buying. I traded in 
 some old games and bought this one knowing I would just turn around and trade it back in for Soccom 
 in a month. 
  
  It got a bad review because it is limited in length and it doesn't have any replay value other 
 than the harder difficulties, which are almost impossible. So I can understand a 7.5 by what games 
 got 10.0s bring to the table. But it definitely isn't a game you wanna miss out on if you played 
 the old star wars games for SNES (3d version of those games really) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: staindtemples
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:43 pm PT
Review:  Amazing, can't get enough. This is the best Star Wars game ever made. Now they just need to remake 
 all the old like it. Only thing it needs more work on camera angles, when I fought as Darth Vader 
 I couldn't see him on the screen for the boss fights. But other than that the power they give you 
 in the game makes you want even more. I have the PS3 Version an so far no problems that are reported 
 in the review videos I have seen. Except for the camera angle problem at the first of the game. 
 Well if your a star wars fan you better have this on the system of your liking because this is 
 something you shouldn't miss. I fills the gap in between 3-4 plus its a lot of fun an has high 
 replay value. Only thing that is missing that the 360 has an the ps3 don't is the achievements. 
 It would make the game even better it you had trophy's pop up on your screen saying you Sith punted 
 100 jawas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ghosthorses81
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:40 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a huge fan of Star Wars, but grew up with four older brothers who are more or less obsessed, 
 so I've seen the movies, read some of the comics, and played most of the past Star Wars games (which 
 90% stunk) . 
  Initially, this game was a lot of fun. The graphics are pretty, but there were times they could 
 have passed for last generation consoles. The controls aren't the greatest either. Movement is 
 smooth, but targeting is a joke, and when there is any platform jumping its just a nuisance, and 
 the lousy camera control doesn't help.
  It doesn't get old throwing baddies around or smashing them crates, but boss fights were poorly 
 executed, and they're all essential the same. 
  Oh, and the loading! Every time you go to power up your moves or lightsaber or anything it will 
 load for about seconds. It was really obnoxious and kept the experience from flowing smoothly.
 
  Honestly, I skipped through most of the story sequences, but the ones I did watch were interesting, 
 so story wise it was good.
  However, I beat the game in under 7 hours.... so what's next? (And I'm curious if that time included 
 all those loading screens...)
  
  Hard core Star Wars fans will most likely love and find little fault in the game, but I can't but 
 help feel short handed after all the hype.
  
  Rent first. If it keeps your interest after a weekend, I'd say go buy it. Otherwise, I suggest 
 spending 60 bucks on drugs or a hooker for a entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aitrus5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 9:52 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are good, planet backgrounds are spectacular and all the sounds and music from Star wars 
 are present. The animation is fine to see, lightsabers and stormtroopers alike swirling around, 
 the latter in horror. The story is passable, with a nice twist about the third of a way through, 
 I have not finished the game. Does not approach the complexity and greatness of KOTOR however. 
 But nobody bought this for the story anyway. Oh and it has a leveling up your powers system like 
 diablo.
  
  The fighting gameplay action is the best I've played since Ninja Gaiden. There are so many options 
 that you will have a blast leveling up and trying each and every way to kill an enemy. Fling a 
 stormtrooper into his buddies or off a cliff. Or choke him or toss him aside. Or electrocute him 
 and send him into an exploding object. Or fling your lightsaber into his chest while and watch 
 as he writhes in mid-air. And that's just the force grip options! 
  
  Some reviewers have complained about the targeting system and it could have used a bit of improvement 
 yes, but frankly, you get used to it and once you learn it's nuances you'll have no problem. Takes 
 two levels tops. The difficulty succeds in being challenging but not cheap. I have died quite a 
 few times, mostly from not realizing my health was low. Even though you are very powerful, you 
 are not invulnerable. Health regeneration is tied to killing enemies. Boss battles are creative 
 so far, and based on pattern recognition. Even if you know what to do, they are tricky, and you 
 will likely die or win with only a sliver of life remaining. Which is just how it should be. 
 
  
  There have been a few grahpical glitches, freezes during high levels of action, but nothing to 
 throw your controller about. Getting stuck in tight places, and it's sometimes not obvious why 
 you can't go some locations instead of hitting an invisible wall. But overall the game is well 
 worth a buy simply because it's damn fun to play. You really feel like a badass when you wade into 
 a group of enemies with the Force and lightsaber in hand. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Crazyman89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 8:20 pm PT
Review:  The critic reviews were a bit harsh. Games is amazing to play and definitely has many more good 
 things than bad. The bad things I've noticed are the the targeting system, camera angles and the 
 jumping accuracy. The jumping system is what gets me most. I slide around on everything and even 
 right off the cliffs. I would have also have like to have seen an easier way to tell the health 
 of the npc I am locked onto. Sometimes the npc could be behind me and I can't see the bar or the 
 npc is just too tall. So the health bar goes out of the screen. Anyways great game. Go play it. 
 If you're leary of spending the money on the game, go rent first. Then buy it if you need more 
 of it. 
  
  I don't really have much else to say but rent it or buy it because it's got some addicting moments 
 and you will surely get two or three plays out of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pimpin10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 4:34 pm PT
Review:  only a couple missions in but im lovin it so far. its a must play game for any star wars fanatic 
 who cant get enough of more indepth story in the star wars series... hope its this good until the 
 end and i just keep being able to kick some jawas. Really wondering how this is going to play out 
 considering the emperor is still alive in other movies so they must fail somewhere along the line... or 
 maybe starkiller a jedi? and how are they going to explain a stormtrooper going to the emperor 
 and saying they have reports of attacks on them from a red lightsabered jedi? it would be obvious 
 to another sith and any sith is under the emperor so i dont know how they will escape that as the 
 game progresses. i like how they tie in all the lose ends too it was needed after the revenge of 
 the sith to become a new hope... ok now i just beat the game so if u havent dont read on becasue 
 there are spoilers. ive played both endings and am satisfied. i like how you can keep playing with 
 the sith stalker with all ur abilites and just destroy the early levels.. to tell u the truth i 
 think it was too short because i beat it in two days. its cool how the rebel alliance flag is made 
 though. all in all an amazing game.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RDrayMan101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 5:50 pm PT
Review:  I was unimpressed with the demo at first, but it really grew on me. DMM is done beautifully (especially 
 on Felucia) , Euphoria is incredible. The game delivers on everything I'd heard would be coming 
 out of it, except.... choices. Hayden Blackman said that the choices you made throughout the game 
 would make the path of the story change. This is NOT TRUE, there is one choice you CAN make, at 
 the very end of the game, so there are 2 endings, i like the dark side better. The story was fantastic. 
 when they say "oh snap" moments, they really do mean it. the voicework was phenomenal, the emotion 
 animation still amazes me. all in all, this is a great game, even if it is a bit... linear. i would 
 definitely recommend it to fans and non-fans alike. Hoping for a movie... won't get my hopes up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigWalt211
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:54 pm PT
Review:  I got this game at midnight, played until about 4am. Woke up at about 730am, and completed both 
 endings by about 1pm. Extremely fun game, just not long enough. Total game play from start to finish 
 was about 6 and a half hours. If you are a die hard Star Wars fan, by all means add it to your 
 collection, if not, just rent it. As far as the actual game play, some of the puzzles are not very 
 obvious, but if you think about it you can get them pretty quick. Once you finish the game you 
 can start over with all of your power ups intact. Going back with more power makes the game that 
 much more fun. However I do wish they gave the apprentice force choke, but being able to punt a 
 Jawa makes up for it. The only thing left to do at this point is try to complete all of the side 
 tasks and find all of the holocrons. By the way, starting the game as Vader is AWESOME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keendawg11
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Force Unleashed was a great game to play and it unlocked our imagination of blasting stormtroopers 
 to the side of the wall or completely off the screen. All the powers are fun to mess around with 
 too. I must say that it wasn't without its drawbacks. I agree with most reviews that the aiming 
 icon to grab things with is a bit frustrating since you have to be careful which way you're directing 
 Starkiller. Also, there weren't enough intense parts to keep interest in most levels. It go to 
 be too repetitive with the measly little troopers to slice through and them a mini boss before 
 the main boss. I was hoping for more none stop action throughout each level. I was also hoping 
 for more personalized saber components. Like a Darth Maul type saber or the way they hold the saber 
 in general. The game did have a great story to it. If Lucas wanted to make this game into a movie 
 (although I'd prefer he didn't) I'd see it since it was very compelling and kept me wanting to 
 play without stopping to see what happens next. Overall the look and feel of the game was done 
 very nicely and I couldn't stop from figuring out new ways of killing stormtroopers. I just wish 
 it was a bit longer (it took about 9 hours to beat) . All in all, I liked the game and will continue 
 to play it. It's not something to die for and stand in line for, but it's worth your money to go 
 buy and enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kyro091
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2008 11:18 am PT
Review:  This game is good. Simple as that. So why is it getting the bad reviews? I'll tell you why. I think 
 it was about a year and a half ago i got a game informer with Darth Vader on the front and I almost 
 passed out. Inside it told stories of unlimited force use, a game of all games for the next-gen 
 consoles. It bragged about an amazing game engine that would make you drool.
  This morning I flew out of bed and got the force unleashed popped it in the PS3, ready to seriously 
 pwn some stormtroopers. 
  And that's what I'm doing.
  It's an amazingly good game, definitely one of the best star wars games out there and a good intro 
 for the next-gen star wars series. The force moves are awesome, it's smooth, and the leveling system 
 is sweet.
  So why is everybody down on it?
  Because we got so hyped up and ready for the perfect game and the perfect gaming engine, that we 
 didn't see the reality.
  YOU WILL NEVER PLAY A PERFECT VIDEO GAME!!!!!
  So why cry about it? Enjoy the game for what it is.
  Yea it has a few glitches, but nothing horrible 
 like in Mercs 2 where your flippin helicopter would dissapear when you were riding in it. Any defects 
 are ones that just make things look a little odd, like on the 2nd level with the apprentice his 
 legs got twisted around for a moment. As soon as i moved it corrected itself and it made me laugh 
 anyways. Point is, i wouldn't wanna wait another 6 months when it's just little things like that.
 
  Besides, seriously.... its freakin Star Wars!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nicedude82
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:15 am PT
Review:  Had fun playing the game, even with the kinks. I felt like they rushed it to make the deadline. 
 Needed a lot more work to be done to be a great game. Sadly the potential was never fully achieved. 
 Tha AI was good. Handling of the aprentice almost flawless wih the exception of the horendous targeting 
 system. The story was well crafted. The basic intercation between the AI and the player was truly 
 innovative and worked excelent, unless when there were glitches in the program. The animation needed 
 a lot of work, it felt like we were still stuck in the last generation consoles. 
  Perhaps Lucasarts should let developers like Bioware and Obsidian develop their flagship games 
 with them providing the stories. This could have definately become a favorite Star Wars game. Another 
 six months would have made this game a fan favorite as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 10:39 am PT
Review:  I'm a big fan of the series and have waited a year for this game to come out just to be given a 
 somewhat decent game. I got this game a couple of days before it's given release date and could've 
 blown through this game friday night, but luckily I only played when my lady came in from work.
 
  
  
  Story- You play Darth Vader's secre apprentice who is given missions to hunt down the remainding 
 jedi's in the universe. You are sent on these missions with one objective... LEAVE NO WITNESSES 
 and destroy everything in your path (Well, that was my additional mission) . You come across many 
 familiar faces throughout the star wars legacy which will make you crack a smile (Trust me) .
  
  
  
  Graphics- (Sigh) The graphics were not spectacular at all and some scenenery looked 
 a bit dull. The cut scenes were nice looking, but nothing worth dropping your jaws for.
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay was suppose to be some major stuff, but at the end of the day it was 
 nothing worth a slow clap at best. I had some targeting issues with the game, glitches and some 
 MAJOR FREEZING ISSUES on my end. Plus, you really couldn't control whether you want to be sith 
 or jedi from the early part of the story (WHICH SUCKS!!!) . In KOTOR we were able to change the outcomes 
 of events that would pull us towards sith or jedi early in the game. I mean I didn't know I was 
 jedi until the last level when starkiller jumps into the Death Star & my costume changed. The game 
 was also about 10hrs long which is pretty short. All in all I wasn't moved at all by the gameplay 
 and thought of it as pretty average.
  
  
  Music-If you've rad my other reviews then you should know music plays a big part in my games. The 
 music in Star Wars was very good as it had some of John Williams (THAT'S THE MAN) music in it, 
 so the music was very good but it could not save this game.
  
  
  Replay- I would label the replay value as normal (meaning you'd probably play again, but your replay 
 will not be that much fun)
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rich_jammer
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 16, 2008 4:30 am PT
Review:  This game is a prime example of how a totally cool videogame idea can turn to the Darkside when 
 you concentrate more on story, licensing, new technology rather than compelling gameplay.
  
  The story is pretty complex and if your a Star Wars fan it's an important part of the saga 
 because it's the story of the birth of the rebellion and it was made canon by George Lucas himself. 
 You have to commend the story as it seems backwards to Anakin's story. Starkiller, trained as a 
 Sith later turns to the ways of the Jedi because of events that unfold and his love for a certain 
 pilot... NO! NOT HAN SOLO! Since this is a videogame and if you have watched the trailers, I won't 
 spoil too much by saying that there'll be a fight with Vader. Since I am a Vader fan, the ending 
 is both frustrating since you kick Vader's butt and satisfying because ( (CENSORED BECAUSE OF SPOILERS) ) 
 However the story isn't anything to brag about because of the short length of the whole game itself. 
 If you don't own an Xbox 360, PS3, PS2, Wii, PSP, or DS your better off reading the novel based 
 on this game by Sean Williams or the graphic novel by Dark Horse comics.
  
  The game graphics looks pretty OK but the character models of the main characters look pretty crappy. 
 Even Darth Vader's helmet and suit don't look accurate. Some of the effects are nice but nothing 
 to brag about. I'm also pretty dissapointed by the draw distance. Other games in this genre tend 
 to do it better.
  
  The Euphoria and the Digital Molecular Matter engine mostly seem cosmetic not applying to gameplay 
 that much. But their efforts seem underutilized as not all objects break with the realism of DMM. 
 Check out my blog on how I would've used both those engines at http://www. gamespot. com/users/rich_jammer/show_blog_entry. php? topic_id=m-100-25534364&tag=all-about; blog1 
 . This game could've been done without those engines as the PS2, Wii, etc versions prove.
  
  The character's in the game are what you would expect from Star Wars but the crazy jedi who 
 is a boss on the third stage Raxus Prime is pretty cool and Shaak Ti's apprentice weilds her lightsaber 
 like tonfas. Although it seems they ran out of ideas like the sarlac pit and ranchor which are 
 most famous for being on Tatooine are on Felucia which is odd. Also they added Felucian who didn't 
 appear in episode 3 ROTS and somehow posses force powers. Not to mention that some of the Emperor's 
 guards somehow have force powers too. This shows that they took too many liberties and created 
 alot of plot holes.
  
  Most of the stages are done well like the third stage of Raxus Prime. I would also like to commend 
 the detail in the stages like seeing the bones of dead ranchors and being able to throw thier bones 
 and also the trophy room of the hunter on Kashyyyk. Howver if you played Devil May Cry 4 you would 
 know that they lengthed the game by having you go through all the stages and bosses more than once. 
 TFU does this as well, you go back to a remixed versions of Raxus Prime, Felucia, Kashyyyk, and 
 the Death Star which looks similar to the Tie Fighter construction yard. And thanks to your droid 
 Proxy, you fight earlier bosses twice. I would've forgiven these repeats in stages if the game 
 wasn't so short.
  
  Most objectives seems dull because mostly it's just go here kill this dude and kill all dudes that 
 get in your way. Although some of the missions are cool like avoiding lasers on the Death Star 
 and helping a blind guy through the stage by picking him up with the force. However you'll find 
 yourself lost on some stages cause you don't know how to get through an obstacle or you don't understand 
 the objectives.
  
  The music is mostly the excellent score you'd expect from the movies. Even the new song which is 
 the apprentice's theme is pretty good too. While on voice acting, most of the actors work is done 
 pretty well. It even features Jimmy Smits the actual actor for Bail Organa. Although I have to 
 say that the Emperor and Princess Leia don't sound convincing. Also they used a different voice 
 actor for Shaak Ti to the one I'm more used to from the Cartoon Network cartoon Star Wars Clone 
 Wars (not the new CGI movie/series Star Wars THE Clone Wars) However the performance of Darth Vader's 
 voice actor is really good. He sounds more like the New Hope Vader rather than the Empire Strikes 
 Back or the Return of The Jedi Vader which seems accurate to the time line of the game.
  
  One really annoying thing about The Force unleashed are the load times. In the menu when you go 
 to options there's a load. When you go to extras there's no load but if you access something like 
 art there's a load. When you pause the game there's no load but if you open up the force talents 
 or the lightsaber menu there's a load. Thankfully you don't need to access the menu too often but 
 the menus could have been done with lesser load times.
  
  OK on to gameplay, some basic combos and stuff with meele and force powers which can be upgraded. 
 I would also like to re-state my complaints in my impressions blog. The force grip targeting doesn't 
 always grip on the object or enemy you want to. Sometimes when in an emergency you press the grip 
 button it targets nothing so your left looking like an idiot getting shot at while doing nothing. 
 Also when throwing said objects it doesn't always go where you want it too. Usually you'll find 
 in a battle that you need your force grip to beat enemies but it's so unrealiable you'll usually 
 miss your enemy then run out of things to throw. It's also pretty annoying how the targeting system, 
 both the R1 button and the autoforce throwing aiming aims at boxes sometimes (but too often to 
 be tolerated) . Hey I'm here to fight storm troopers not boxes!
  
  In the first stages since your just fighting weak enemies you won't find it too hard to fight back 
 but later on you'll encounter enemies that force powers don't work on and do attacks that knock 
 you to the floor. This can get annoying cause while Starkiller is dancing around on the floor doing 
 the worm enemies can still hurt you and right after you get up you'll get knocked down again, this 
 happens over and over again till you die. Most of my deaths have been because of this. However 
 when you find moves that can kill hard enemies easy the game can get repetitive by spamming these 
 moves over and over again.
  
  Sometimes there are enemies and bosses that you can finish off using God of War like quicktime 
 events. However it's pretty annoying when they do show up cause they surprise you and you end up 
 having to do it twice. Speaking of boss fights most of them seem the same since all you fight are 
 jedi and Sith. However this is both good and bad since the most unique boss fight is the worst. 
 That boss fight is when you fight against a Star Destroyer. It may sound cool but executed poorly. 
 You'll find your self wondering if your fighting the Star Destroyer correctly.
  
  The camera system seems ok only seldem getting stuck behind an object in big areas. The camera 
 does really badly in the small tight corridors especially when you have to go back and forth constantly 
 adjusting the camera. If you want to see how bad the camera is try playing proxy's challenges and 
 try to avoid the flame troopers. Also the camera system seems really crap during boss fights. Switching 
 to a over the head view.
  
  There were quite alot of glitches that I encountered. One instance I fell through a glitched whole 
 in the world and fell through to my doom. The other is that I couldn't see the walls and just saw 
 an endless world. One time I killed an AT-ST by just throwing one rock at it and it just dissintegrated. 
 And the final stupid glitch is during a boss fight the boss got stuck in one animation and wouldn't 
 attack so I had to kill my self to continue. I encountered all these only in my first playthrough.
 
  
  I have to say that the best part of the game is the force grip. It's so satisfying grabbing a stormtrooper 
 impaling him then tossing him to his doom. Also force gripping a storm trooper then making him 
 into a lighting grenade and using him to blow up his buddies is also pretty fun.
  
  One other nice thing is that you can custimise your saber. Although not as good as the saber customisation 
 of KOTOR or Jedi Knight Jedi Academy but that black light saber does look cool.
  
  There wasn't any multiplayer in the version I played (PS3) but I think the Wii version has multiplayer 
 while other versions have system exclusive game modes. I find it pretty stupid that the 360 and 
 PS3 are identical while the other consoles get console specific exclusives.
  
  Not alot to do when you finish the game once. You can play the game in a harder difficulty, you 
 could do proxy's challenges, you could find all the jedi holocrons, or watch the secret ending. 
 Other than that the only other reason to go back is to get the crytal that turns your saber's color 
 to black.
  
  All-in-all this game's story doesn't make up for it's repetitive levels, stupidly difficult gameplay, 
 bad camera, boring objectives, glitched graphics and a short game overall. Your better off reading 
 the extended story in the novels. Both the Euphoria and the DMM are exciting new technologies but 
 underutilized in this game. Most of the work of Euphoria and DMM are cosmetic. Basically like Obama 
 said about Palin "You can put make-up on a pig but it's still a pig" Or "You can put fancy lights 
 and decorations on Mos Eisley but it's still a hive or summ and villainy."
  
  This game was supposed to have force power which were amped up and super powerful. But that also 
 is pretty underwhelming. If you want to see the force unleashed you should watch Dexter's Lab and 
 Samurai Jack creator's version of Star Wars called Star Wars Clone Wars. Check out a sample of 
 his work below http://www. gamespot. com/users/rich_jammer/video_player? id=KyQ1kWGt5bsOujPe 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Interscape123
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:55 am PT
Review:  This game uses some revolutionary gaming technology to immerse the gamer in the realism of the 
 game. Metal bends like metal, wood like wood, and the story line is also another selling point. 
 'What happened between episode 3 and 4' could draw many people into buying this game, if not merely 
 for the nostalgia of it. The prospect of controlling a force user with the ability to destroy as 
 many things as there are in STAR WARS THE FORCE UNLEASHED is truly something you cannot pass up. 
 The skill tree involving the spending of points and leveling up of your character is also a classic 
 idea which brings in elements of RPG makes this game a masterpiece. It has many great ideas which 
 it incorporates into the game very well. There is also a 'God of War' style boss fight finishing 
 move that makes you press buttons in a certain sequence to finish the boss in a spectacular finishing 
 move. 
  
  Anyway, I give this game a 10 out of 10 and hope there is more great games coming this way soon. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrazySupra
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:19 am PT
Review:  I have been waiting for this game ever since I saw the leaked you-tube footage of the game a long 
 time ago. I have been a fan og lucasarts ever since the release of X-Wing back in 93. But the last 
 couple og years I've been disappointed with Lucasarts due to the lack of story in the games (Battlefront, 
 Empire at war) It has not been a good story game since Kotor II back in 04.
  
  Looks like the force unleashed has delivered on that part big time! I feel the same about starkiller 
 as I did about Kyle Katarn in the Jedi Knight series games... only this is better. I feel like I'm 
 in a movie when I play this game. Great set of characters and a unique score. Best score since 
 the movies...
  
  As for the gameplay was a little hard to get used to at first, but after a couple of hours I learned 
 how play the game and how to use the forcepowers, combos etc.. It started to be really fun. You 
 feel like a god... and that feeling is really good. 
  
  My conclution is. Best Game since Kotor! And best graphics yet in a star wars game. A huge step 
 up for Lucas arts! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FendersONLY
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 16, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  I don't care what anybody says. This game deserves more than a 7.5. Yes it does have a few bugs, 
 yes it does have a slightly difficult targeting system. But that doesn't make it a mediocre game 
 just because of those things. I picked this up at the midnight release at my local Gamestop. I 
 waited in line for 3 hours, and I am completely not dissappointed. This game has some of the best 
 graphics that I have seen since Metal Gear Solid 4. Every little detail in the environment is visible 
 with no low resolution visuals because they thought you wouldn't see it. Everything is as sharp 
 far away as it is right next to you. Glass really looks like its shattering, and wood looks like 
 its really splintering. All due to the DMM (Digital Molecular Matter) Engine. Character models look 
 amazing, due to complete motion capture for all cutscenes. Your character and all NPC's (non player 
 characters) animate very well and very fluidly. All around the graphics just make you feel like 
 you are right in the game. Sound work is excellent which should come as no surprise knowing the 
 past Star Wars experiences. The soundtrack is as you could expect incredible. The sounds of the 
 lightsabers cutting through your enemies to the guns going off in a crowded room. Now to the most 
 meticulous gamer thats all worried about perfection, this isn't by any means a perfect game, haven't 
 seen one in all my days. But it does give you alot of freedom that any other games haven't ever 
 accomplished which is why I think this game deserves more. The amount of freedom your force powers 
 give you is phenomenal. So as a close I would just like to say that if you are a Star Wars fan, 
 or just somebody thats looking for a new experience... This is the game you want. Great Graphics, 
 Great Sound, Great Mechanics, Overall make this one of the best games I have ever played. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
