-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stormrise
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/strategy/stormrise/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Interesting sci-fi universe.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Whip select control scheme makes choosing units a chore.
 Appalling pathfinding leads to micromanagement nightmares.
 Broken animations and missing visual effects.
 Total lack of important visual information.
 Tons of other annoying issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 30, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 2.5
Critic Score: 4.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 4.0, 60 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Creative Assembly
Genre: Sci-Fi Real-Time Strategy
Date: Mar 24, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
This frustrating, broken mess is one of the worst strategy games in years. 

  Stormrise is one of those games that makes you wonder, "What were they  thinking ?" This real-time 
 strategy game is, from top to bottom, misconceived, frustrating, frequently broken, and rarely 
 fun. Developer Creative Assembly has built an entire product around a fundamentally flawed control 
 scheme and neglected almost every important facet of the RTS genre. Embarrassingly busted pathfinding, 
 infuriating interface problems, abysmal mission design, substandard visuals -- these unpleasant elements 
 and many others make the whole thing an unseemly mess. It's the bizarre irony of Stormrise that 
 it's an RTS game built from the ground up for modern consoles yet it's far inferior to those ported 
 from the PC.  

  The control scheme in question is called whip select, and its Stormrise's most interesting idea -- and 
 greatest liability. The game eschews the standard top-down perspective, forcing you to view the 
 battlefield and issue orders from the viewpoint of an individual squad. This isn't a brand-new 
 innovation; a similar perspective worked to great cinematic effect in Tom Clancy's EndWar. To switch 
 to another unit, you rotate a line that emanates from the center of the screen with the right thumbstick, 
 hover it over the target unit, and release the stick. This is whip select, and on paper, it sounds 
 like a clever console-centric alternative to traditional PC mouse controls. However, initial fascination 
 deteriorates rapidly into abhorrence when the control scheme collides with the game's delinquent 
 interface and often nonfunctional pathing.  

  Your initial struggles will come when you start to spread units across the map. When a squad isn't 
 onscreen, it is represented by an icon displayed either in your field of view (when there are obstacles 
 between your current selection and your target) or along the edge of the screen, in the manner 
 of a space combat sim. When units amass in the distance, making an exact selection, especially 
 in the midst of combat, can be a nightmare. You'll waste precious seconds fiddling to make sure 
 you highlight the correct tiny icon before releasing the thumbstick, or worse yet, you'll choose 
 the wrong unit, possibly flinging your view to an unrelated unit that happens to be positioned 
 in the same general direction -- but underground. Or you may land on the wrong unit simply because 
 you can't tell what the unit type is from the simple icon that represents it, wasting even more 
 time while you fumble your way to the squad you need most. Rather than enhancing the enjoyment, 
 whip select taints every action and hobbles the few moments when the game's burgeoning potential 
 peeks from underneath this specter. It's like driving through a thick fog or running with a broken 
 leg. You can issue indirect orders, though this function is only mildly helpful and, like most 
 aspects of Stormrise, was not implemented well. You can issue such a command when controlling a 
 unit, but not when managing the power nodes that you must capture and upgrade, where the feature 
 would have been far more helpful.  

  From here, the problems begin to pile up, and the resulting tower of insanity crashes to the ground 
 in an astounding mass of broken and half-implemented features. The pathfinding in particular is 
 possibly the worst an RTS game has seen to date. Units get hung up on everything: the environments, 
 each other, and sometimes nothing at all. You might watch some individual members of a squad move 
 forward while the lagging ones get stuck in the level geometry and then teleport forward a few 
 moments later. Large units like the spiderlike matriarchs may walk directly into objects and just 
 keep walking rather than go around, and they get stuck in jittery animation loops when they can't 
 figure out what to do or where to go. Squads won't get out of the way of oncoming units, often 
 leading to traffic jams that can be fixed only by manually leading away units one at a time until 
 you can bring order to the chaos. Interpretive dance routines are common in the ranks of your infantry, 
 and your warriors often choose to run about like buffoons rather than engage the enemy or find 
 a place to still their hyperactive feet.  

           Whip select brings unparalleled imprecision to strategy gaming.      

  The campaign's 
 level design seems created almost to aggravate these issues. In the level that introduces the anti-infantry 
 vehicles called prowlers, these units must navigate through tight roadways, a task they are clearly 
 incapable of performing. In later missions, you must lead units down spiraling sets of walkways 
 to take a series of control points, and navigate through incredibly confined underground tunnels. 
 The choke points in these areas create long, frustrating stalemates due to the resulting stew of 
 practically uncontrollable units. At least in wider environments, unit behavior inspires fewer 
 headaches, but these missions are abysmal, because bad pathfinding and unnecessary micromanagement 
 lead to losses that could have been avoided if your units had simply done what you had commanded 
 them to do. At first, the option to group units into control groups of three (yes indeed, you can 
 only combine up to three units in a single group) seems like a tempting way to soften the issues, 
 until you realize that creating groups only compounds the pathfinding absurdities.  

  Even should you overcome these roadblocks, you'll find that units are extremely slow to respond 
 to orders, taking their time to move out of the way as if they need to give it some thought first. 
 Want your hero unit to get out of the way when his health is quickly diminishing? Don't count on 
 it: he'd rather perform a series of useless animations, and then die -- which ends the mission -- rather 
 than follow your command. Not that it is always clear why your hero (or any other unit) is losing 
 health in the first place. All too frequently, you will watch a health bar slowly diminish, yet 
 the absence of bullets, lasers, or nearby units will make you wonder where the damage is even coming 
 from. This is because animations and effects often go missing. Enemy rangers might collapse in 
 a bloody heap, apparently from the fire of your hovering hunters -- but because these airborne units 
 are stuck in a jittery loop, you won't see any laser fire. In fact, Stormrise goes out of its way 
 to not give you important visual information. Once units are grouped, you cannot see their remaining 
 health, which is an enormous problem if you include a commander in the group. Should you want a 
 better look at the battlefield, you might try pulling up the overhead view, though in doing so 
 you will find the most useless piece of garbage that has ever been passed off as a map.  

  This smorgasbord of horrific design is all the more heartbreaking when you consider the game's 
 potential. Yes, Stormrise is brimming with terrible ideas poorly executed, but the grim, futuristic 
 setting and cool-looking units, such as the soaring rift worm, show elements of real promise. Two 
 factions, the Echelon and the Sai, clash over the future of the planet after a cataclysmic environmental 
 disaster, and both sides' moral ambiguities lead to a few different twists and turns to the tale. 
 The story isn't always easy to follow, but emphatic voice acting and a few atmospheric touches 
 keep the narrative interesting, even if you aren't sure what's going on. Sadly, poor production 
 values cast a shadow on these few bright spots. When masses of units collide, Stormrise can offer 
 a mild visual spectacle. Otherwise, low-resolution textures, poor lighting, and muddy, uninspired 
 art make the game look a bit homely.  

  The basic gameplay also showcases some decent core ideas. You must capture and link power nodes 
 to accumulate resources, and you can upgrade them with shields and surprisingly effective turrets. 
 This concept isn't that new, but it's a solid one that keeps you pressing forward. And while using 
 the terrain has been an important aspect of other strategy games, few offer Stormrise's sheer verticality. 
 You can place snipers (called infiltrators here) on ledges and move infantry behind cover, and 
 once you become familiar with each unit's attack range, careful positioning can open up some intriguing 
 strategic options. Sadly, knowing each unit's range is even more important than you would expect, 
 given that if you give an attack order, the unit will move right up to its target, rather than 
 attack from the most distant possible range, as in every other RTS. This leads to more micromanagement, 
 lest your rangers wander directly into their targets as if they just want a hug.  

           Stormrise's art design makes brown and gray even uglier than you thought possible.    
   

  Stormrise's multiplayer component gives rise to its greatest ideas. Before you head into battle, 
 you can customize your powerful commander unit with different weapons and abilities, which is a 
 nice touch that gives you the element of surprise. Up to eight players can battle it out, and like 
 World in Conflict, Stormrise offers drop-in, drop-out online play. At least here you can leave 
 behind the single-player campaign's oft-frustrating mission objectives and concentrate on capturing 
 power nodes while crushing the opposition. Multiplayer skirmishes offer the most hints at what 
 the game could have and should have been, and a few micromanagement lovers may enjoy exploring 
 their units' alternate attack modes (the matriarch's acid storm is fun to play with) . However, 
 you're still dealing with all the control and pathfinding issues, only now, you might get stuck 
 on friendly units that you don't get any direct control over. If you really want to showcase your 
 skills on the leaderboards, you can participate in ranked matches, but maddeningly, the game allows 
 uneven teams, which is just out-and-out absurd in a ranked contest.  

  There are more nightmarish issues, of course, such as how the terrible enemy AI ignores your attacks 
 or rushes past your powerful stalkers in endless, scripted waves. And how the broken checkpoints 
 and single save slot mean potentially saving at an inopportune time, forcing you to restart a mission 
 from the beginning. And the way the action continues after you save the game, but doesn't let you 
 control anything for several precious seconds. Suffice it to say, Stormrise is a broken debacle 
 that is in no way deserving of either your time or your money.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (1 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: speedie9372
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  I have been looking forward to this game for a while as i am a huge fan of rts and when i first 
 put this game on i thought oh this aint going to be great, controls are way too hard but when i 
 got to the 2nd level i started to get used to them and now i understand their logic in making the 
 system they have used. I am loving this game now i think its amazing and i have played them all 
 (RTS) for the consoles and this one is a real tester. what i really like about it is that u have 
 to think things out instead of the big rush at the start. Population cap looks good for the game 
 too, u get a lot of units if u want cause u will need them. Big units are cool too. Not worked 
 out the best strategy for the game yet thats because this is a new style of play so is going to 
 be interesting seeing how people work this one out. I havent even won against easy ai yet on skirmish 
 so i have a lot of thinking to do. I am buying this for xbox as well so u can tell how much i love 
 this game. just add ITAL1ANSTALL1ON if u want a game online with me on ps3 and G13 STALLION for 
 xbox. catch u all later guys and girls 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
