-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stranglehold
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/stranglehold/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Guns, guns, guns!.
 Environments blow apart beautifully.
 Tequila's got a good number of effective moves and abilities.
 Solid voice acting.
 PS3 special edition includes <em>Hard Boiled</em>.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Gameplay does fall into repetition after a while.
 Some of the dynamic portions of the environment are more trouble than they're worth.
 Short single-player mode.
 Multiplayer is weak.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.7, 22 Review (s)
User Score: 7.9, 668 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Oct 29, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
For as long as it lasts, Stranglehold delivers a satisfying, if somewhat derivative action game 
 experience. 

  It would be very easy for the average person to take one look at Stranglehold and write it off 
 as a Max Payne rip-off. That's because, in a sort of roundabout way, it is. Midway and John Woo's 
 video game sequel to the director's classic Hong Kong action flick  Hard Boiled  borrows very liberally 
 from the mechanics of Remedy's slow-motion, heavy-action franchise, which is a little ironic and 
 mind-bending because Max Payne was itself a tribute to John Woo's brand of cinematic action. Regardless, 
 if you're going to make a game based on a badass cop dodging, diving, and shooting all over the 
 place in slow-motion, there are certainly worse places to look for inspiration. Stranglehold effectively 
 takes the elements that made Max Payne fun and uses them to its own advantage, while sprinkling 
 in a number of original touches and gimmicks that give the game its own Hong Kong cinema flavor. 
 It's an interesting piece of work that's more fun than it isn't, and fans of  Hard Boiled  ought 
 to especially enjoy watching Chow Yun-Fat reprise his role as Inspector Tequila -- provided, of course, 
 that said fans didn't already experience this role reprisal earlier in the year on the Xbox 360 
 or PC.  

           Oh, dude, your face...      

  Stranglehold takes place many years after  Hard Boiled , though Yun-Fat's Inspector Tequila doesn't 
 seem to have lost a step. He's still a rogue cop on the Hong Kong police force, and when a member 
 of the force turns up dead, evidently offed by one of HK's major gangs, Tequila steps up to deal 
 with the situation. What follows is a sometimes confusing and ham-fisted story of gangs double- 
 and triple-crossing one another. Somewhere in there, Tequila's former girlfriend and daughter both 
 end up being held hostage by one of the gangs. It's a decent crime tale that's certainly better 
 than much of John Woo's American work (though exactly how involved Woo was in this game's production 
 is debatable) , but there is still something about the whole story that feels very Hollywood. It 
 lacks the gritty feel of the original flick, and a lot of the film's cool factor to boot. Nevertheless, 
 the plot serves as an OK-enough motivation to get Tequila back in action and shooting people in 
 the face -- and really, that's pretty much all you need.  

  You will shoot a lot of people in Stranglehold. The body count is pretty staggering for a game 
 that runs only about six or seven hours. Enemies come flying out of every nook and cranny of each 
 stage, and always with guns blazing. Fortunately, they don't have the ability to jump and dive 
 around in bullet time like our man Tequila. Though the game refers to it as "Tequila Time," this 
 is really just the bullet-time mechanic from Max Payne given a fancy makeover. The one trick is 
 that you won't ever go into bullet-time automatically as a result of diving around, unless you 
 specifically have an enemy in your targeting reticle sights. There is also a specific button that 
 puts you into bullet-time completely separate from the shoot dodging, though it's rare when you 
 ever need to use it.  

  That's not the only ability he's got, either. Tequila can interact with practically every piece 
 of scenery in a level. If you run up to a table, you can choose to slide right over it, or kick 
 it over and use it as a temporary cover point. If you run up to a wall, you can dash up it and 
 dive even further than usual. If there's a rail nearby, you can run up or slide down it. See a 
 little wheel cart sitting around? You can jump onto it and roll around the area, blasting everyone 
 silly. Pieces of the environment can also be shot or otherwise destroyed for both fun and efficiency. 
 If an enemy is standing underneath a neon sign, shoot it and watch the sucker get crushed. Exploding 
 barrels are all over the place, and you can imagine the havoc they wreak when shot. There are even 
 occasional environmental puzzles that require wooden poles or planks to be shot out to create new 
 pathways for Tequila to traverse. These are arguably the game's weakest links, in that they're 
 often difficult to discern and sometimes take more shots than they ought to actually work. Fortunately, 
 about halfway through the game, the developers apparently decided to just give up on these distractions 
 and focus almost exclusively on the shooting.  

  There's even more on offer. Pulling off stylish moves throughout the game fills up a meter that 
 lets you trigger one of four different "Tequila bombs." These are special abilities that do everything 
 from recharging your health, to letting you spin around like a gun-toting whirling dervish, killing 
 all the enemies that surround you, all while doves go fluttering off into the sky (what would a 
 Woo production be without doves?) . These special abilities are all useful, though some more so 
 than others. One example is the accurate-shot ability, which lets you move a targeting reticle 
 in slo-mo to any part of an enemy's body, and then watch the bullet fly directly to its target. 
 Save for a few enemies who are especially vulnerable to this move, it's hard to ever really want 
 to use it when the next ability up the scale is an all-out barrage of invincibility and limitless 
 gunfire that usually lasts long enough to clear the room.  

  The last element of gameplay isn't so much an ability as it is a sort of minigame. Periodically, 
 Tequila will run into a group of enemies and end up in a standoff. These standoffs quickly snap 
 Tequila's focus around from one enemy to the next. Using both analog sticks on the controller, 
 you have to simultaneously dodge enemy gunfire and move a targeting reticle over enemies to take 
 them out one by one. It's tough to do, though once you get the hang of it, it's also quite amusing 
 to watch Tequila dart from enemy to enemy while dodging bullets and unleashing hot-leaded hits 
 of his own. Granted, it's a silly contrivance to have only one enemy at a time firing at you; if 
 there are five guys, why don't they all shoot at once? But it is pretty fun, so it's a forgivable 
 contrivance.  

  You can't quite call Stranglehold a one-trick pony, given that it does have a few different things 
 going on at all times. However, all those things are fed directly into the act of shooting people -- and 
 shooting them often, to boot. Accordingly, it's good that the guns are appropriately satisfying 
 to shoot. There's nothing remotely realistic about the game's guns, mind you, though that's arguably 
 a good thing in the context of this game. Being able to shoot a guy from a hundred feet away with 
 a shotgun and still take him out is helpful when you've got dozens of heavily armed enemies running 
 around. Apart from that, you've got Tequila's default pair of pistols, along with assault rifles, 
 submachine guns, heavy machine guns, grenades, and even the occasional rocket launcher to play 
 around with. Each gun has its own strengths and weaknesses in power and accuracy, though they rarely 
 matter much. You get to carry only two types of guns at once, and normally you'll want the gun 
 that will do the most damage at all times.  

           The blood flows aplenty in this one.      

  By no means is Stranglehold an overly 
 challenging game, but by the time you hit the third or fourth level, you'll see a noticeable jump 
 in difficulty. That's a good thing, because the early portions of the game are a bit of a cakewalk 
 at times, even while you're still feeling out all your different abilities. Once you get past the 
 point where the difficulty gears up, you'll actually have to use those different abilities smartly 
 to survive some sequences. Cover points are also helpful, though you can rarely stay in one place 
 for very long, as the environment around you tends to get destroyed very quickly. Likewise, enemies 
 are usually smart enough to run up and start shooting if you stay in one place for too long. The 
 Tequila bombs become a lifesaver in a few situations, though they also tend to make a few of the 
 boss fights overly easy. Turning the game up to the hard difficulty level fixes that some, though 
 not entirely.  

  As helpful as some of these abilities become later in the game, they're not entirely required. 
 In fact, for much of the game, you can get away with just diving around like a crazy person over 
 and over again, periodically ducking for cover for a second or two, and busting out with the occasional 
 Tequila bomb for good measure. In a sense, it makes the gameplay a foregone conclusion. It's not 
 that the gameplay isn't fun, because it is. But it's not so dynamic and over-the-top that you won't 
 ever find yourself bored due to repetition. It's enjoyable to shoot enemies and blast apart the 
 environment in the process, but when you end up doing it the same way over and over and over again, 
 you'll be ready to move on and hope something new comes up. It rarely does. Little of what Stranglehold 
 does ever feels like it operates outside of expected boundaries, and the few things that are original 
 aren't necessarily amazing enough to hold up the entire game. Again, the gameplay is solid and 
 even thrilling in spots, but it's probably not a bad thing that the game only lasts for a half-dozen 
 hours or so. It might have gotten stale beyond that length.  

  Apart from the short single-player campaign, there are some production bonuses to buy through an 
 extras shop (John Woo himself sits behind the counter) , and a multiplayer mode that's probably 
 not going to garner much attention. It's not that it's completely awful or anything, but it feels 
 very tacked-on. You can only engage in standard deathmatches or team deathmatches with up to six 
 players. Though the multiplayer plays a lot like the single-player game, it's not nearly as good. 
 Maps are a little on the condensed side, and though you can use the slow-motion mechanic in multiplayer, 
 its scattered execution in this mode makes it all but worthless. Essentially, it seems like you 
 can't go into slo-mo unless you and your opponents all have a full Tequila time meter. At that 
 point it becomes pointless to fumble around with it when you could just be focusing on shooting 
 someone, and it almost makes things even more distracting when it suddenly pops on. With limited 
 play modes and inconsistent, cramped gameplay, this isn't a multiplayer game to get excited about. 

  If you do find yourself specifically interested in the PlayStation 3 version of Stranglehold, you 
 might want to take a look at the collector's edition of the game. This version includes  Hard Boiled 
  on the game disc, thus letting you watch the game's inspirado at any time on your PS3 -- and only 
 your PS3, because the movie is on the game disc and won't play on any other Blu-ray Disc player. 
 The film transfer is actually pretty good. The film itself doesn't look spectacular by any means, 
 but that would seem to be less an issue with the transfer and more a problem with the movie itself 
 being really old, and the print the film was transferred from being a bit crusty. There aren't 
 any artifacting issues, and the picture and audio quality are certainly a cut above some of the 
 older DVD releases of the movie. Incidentally, the film defaults to the English-language dubbed 
 version, but you can go into the menu and select the original Cantonese language track with English 
 subtitles. The collector's edition is a tad pricey at $69.99 retail. Given how little content the 
 actual game itself has, that might prove to be a bit overmuch to pay for most people. We're just 
 saying that if you're already planning on getting the PS3 version and don't already own  Hard Boiled 
  on a disc somewhere, you might as well spend the extra $10 and get the collector's edition.  

 
  Stranglehold's presentation is mostly good, though it's not without blemishes. By far the most 
 impressive aspect of the game visually is the environments, and specifically how awesome it is 
 to watch them get completely destroyed. Whether you're in a gaudy Hong Kong casino, a lavish penthouse, 
 or a cold, sterile-looking history museum, it's great fun to destroy the scenery. It's really quite 
 impressive how much of every environment is destructible. It's also a boon for the gameplay, because 
 each cover point you hide behind tends to get shot to hell very quickly, which forces you to duck 
 and run. On the less positive side, character models are overly shiny and not especially detailed, 
 animations are limited, and the camera periodically gets in the way of the action when it snaps 
 to angles that are hardly beneficial to your survival. At least the game runs smoothly for the 
 most part, save for occasional hiccups when you try to swivel the camera around too quickly. By 
 all accounts, the PS3 version of Stranglehold looks as good as its Xbox 360 counterpart, with no 
 notable differences to speak of.  

           John Woo says, 'Buy my game, dammit!'      

  Audio is more consistently enjoyable. Chow Yun-Fat joins several other noted actors for the voice 
 cast. Dialogue is appropriately cheesy, especially when Tequila's boss keeps tossing out every 
 angry police-captain clich in the book. The voice acting is quite solid overall. Yun-Fat occasionally 
 dead-reads a few of his lines, but in general he sells the character as well as he can while speaking 
 English. It is sort of weird that the sequel to a classic Hong Kong action flick would be entirely 
 in English instead of Cantonese, but considering the audience, it's also not really surprising. 
 The soundtrack is a nice mix of typically bombastic orchestral pieces and some Asian-flavored string 
 sections, and the game's sound effects are mostly top-notch, from the gun sounds right on down 
 to the individual effects of bullets hitting each and every type of surface.  

  Stranglehold isn't the sort of game that's going to set the shooter genre on fire. It's a more-than-competent 
 take on an existing formula, and it has enough unique moments and overall challenge to succeed. 
 Sure, it gets repetitive at times, it's got a few design quirks, and the multiplayer is borderline 
 irrelevant. But there's enough solid, exciting action here for shooter fans to sink their teeth 
 into. It's a short ride, but an amusing one while it lasts.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (30 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: alexyyz
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 23, 2009 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game like 1 year ago.... I really liked it.. sharp grapphics, fine gameplay... preety 
 fun game to play.
  
  Now after a year I started playing again and I realized that this game is really really cool!!! 
 way cooler than I thought when i played before.
  
  It was a period that i have just bought my PS3, and i did not quite know what to explect from a 
 PS3 console... so I just wanted to finish the game and buy a new one, an over and over again.
 
  
  I bought many action games and I wasnt very satisfied about them... like Brothers in Arms (horrible) , 
 The Darkness (OK) ... But this Stranglehold game... is so cool!! You can destroy things.. walls, 
 colums, boxes, etc! You really feel that you are shooting with a gun, cause you see the effect 
 of a bullet to the environment. The action in the game is intense!! Fricking awesome!! it is a 
 title worth playing with a good replay value after some time.
  
  People do not mention this game a lot, but this is a highly addictive game that can put you in 
 front of the screen for hours and hours!!
  
  I Hope this was usefull....
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: malsen08
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 3:48 am PT
Review:  At first I wasn't sure about this game as it seemed like another version of Max Payne, however 
 after playing the game I really got into it.
  
  The story isn't too bad, but there are a few cheesy lines in the cut-scenes.
  
  This is a game 
 for 3rd person shooter fans. If you like lots of shooting and I mean lots of shooting then there 
 is the game for you. It can get a bit repetitive however if you like shooting lots of enemies and 
 lots of destruction then you this is a lot of a good thing.
  
  The graphics aren't too bad either. There are games with better graphics and scenery out there, 
 but then this was one of the first decent games for the PS3 so this can be expected.
  
  The game has an added touch of earning Tequila points, but this it more just for fun than anything 
 else. It doesn't allow upgrades or anything in other games I have played. With these points you 
 are unlock characters and scenes, but these can only be used in the multiplayer version of the 
 game, which I did not find very useful.
  
  All in all a good fun game for shooter fans and definitely worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claverleykid
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 17, 2008 5:14 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold is an interesting game. It's average in pretty much every area. Graphics are good, 
 gameplay is sound and most importantly it's fun.
  It's wierd, this game is simply shoot, shoot. This makes it repetative in a way. But killing three 
 guys while slying on a food cart in slo-mo never gets old. The annoying thing is that game dosen't 
 have the this and that affect that most 3rd person games have. What I mean is that Uncharted has 
 cover system shooting and platforming. Stranglehold is the same from start to finish. So in a way 
 the short campaign is good for game that would have ran out of gas if it was any longer. The story 
 is tradtional and predictive. The voice acting is solid. And that stranglehold. Simple and addictive 
 fun. "Wait what about the multiplayer?".... Actually, best not mention that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petey_h
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2008 8:08 am PT
Review:  For me, this has been addictive - it really does feel like you are in a John Woo movie. Good effects 
 with the environment splintering and getting destroyed. Good 'set pieces', again - just like a 
 movie. Satisfying to play, and for an unco-ordinated muppet like me, not too easy - just right 
 in fact. The 'Tequilla Bombs' are well done too - very cinematic, and effective. And what's more, 
 for once a good story line - well at least one in keeping with the genre - its not making any deep 
 sociological comments, but at least it makes sense (MGS was pretty confusing) . It all ties together 
 well and makes you feel involved in the plot.
  
  Excellent stuff!
  
  To my mind, this is what movie tie ins should aspire to be like. But then, what do I know? I enjoyed 
 it more than any other game - COD4 was maybe better game play, but I felt more involved in the 
 story here. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: K1LLR3175
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:37 pm PT
Review:  Before I do the review I would just like to state from my factbook that Hardboiled is one of the 
 best action movies to ever grace the view of my eyes. Now lets get on to the review of the sequel 
 to that great movie.... Stranglehold.
  
  Singleplayer
  I will start things off in the singleplayer department.
  Graphics.
  The graphics in this game 
 go from being good to being a complete eyesore. The explosions in the game are very cool looking 
 at believe it or not one of the reason you will want to keep playing the game.... to blow more stuff 
 up. The character models are good as you can get with a Midway game I guess. They look good but they 
 could have done so much better.
  
  
  Gameplay
  This is where things get ugly... real ugly. The gameplay in this game is horrible. It starts out good 
 but as you progress through the game you will finally relize that the game is making you shoot 
 the same 4-5 enemies over and over and over and I DO MEAN OVER. This is the most reptitive game 
 I have ever sat down to play. It is such a shame because I really was looking forward to playing 
 this game alot.
  
  The enemies spawn and come at you like mad, and you will just gun them down one by one. The problem 
 with the game is this. It is so damn paper thing. Like for example, there is aa assault rifle in the 
 game with a scope, cool right? Well too bad Midway made it so you can do any scoping. Thats right 
 you will be shooting from the third person all the way. Speaking of the weapons there is a nice 
 little collection of weapons in the game. Sadly none of them feel right besides the damn pistols.
 
  
  The special abilities do add some interesting elements to the game, like one of the first you will 
 get will be the ability to give your self more health, then others are some that let you deal damage 
 and not be killed yourself [berserk type attack] The problem is, the game is so shallow that none 
 of these''Abilities''actually feel worth it. You can refill that special meter by ether finding 
 paper cranes around the game or pulling off slo-mo or special attacks [example, killing while riding 
 a cart] . The singleplayer is really shallow in the end and leaves alot to be wanted. The poor story [imo] does 
 not make up for the bad game itself.
  
  Multiplayer.
  Ahh the multiplayer portion my least favorite part. This games multiplayer was pretty much dead 
 on arrival. Nobody really played the game so i will try to make this review as best as possible 
 from the little time I spent with it. It sucks. There we go it sucks. The fact that you will be putting 
 more bullets into your enemies than Gears or war, halo and someone using Juggernaut in COD4 combined 
 should be enough to make the games Dev stop and thing about what they are doing.
  
  Say I sucked I don't care the games multiplayer pretty much host all of the levels from the singlplayer [+more 
 if you were''smart''enough to pay 20 bucks for the map pack, for the game that was dead online] The 
 only cool thing is all of the special abilities make there way into multi. Problem is, they are unbalance. Take 
 for example. If someone is use the ability to clear out all enemies in the room and you are standing 
 right next to them shooting them with a shotgun, why are they not dying? They still kill you.
  
  All in all the multiplayer is broken and tacked on, the singplayer feels just about the same 
 and the whole damn game leaves ALOT to be desired. Did I have my fun moments with this game, yes 
 I did, but then again I have fun while on the toilet.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stavr0s
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 1, 2008 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Many had hoped for a game with a great story, gameplay, visuals, sounds, and the likes. Sadly, 
 Stranglehold just can't compare the games like Uncharted.
  
  The game opens with a VERY short scene (I think somewhere around two minutes, at the most) . You 
 can tell that the developers really wanted to make the game feel like one of the classic movies 
 by John Woo, the game tells you little, and expects you to be fine with it. 
  
  The characters feel shallow, and the voice work could use a bit of a touch up. I know, I know, 
 it was meant to be like the movies, but honestly. Can't they have a thinner Chinese accent? It 
 was hard to understand what they were saying, and no, I'm not being closed-minded. Even through 
 the accents, the lines were delivered with little emotion, and felt cold. Bugged me a bit that 
 there wasn't a subtitle option too.
  
  The graphics could've used a bit of work as well. They weren't bad or anything, and yes, I was 
 playing on a SDTV, but that shouldn't matter. Other games look amazing without the use of a HDTV, 
 and I respect them for it. I did like the fact that on a certain level, it was raining, Tequila 
 (the main character) was wet, his clothes were darker and stuck to him, his hair was plastered 
 against his forehead. It was quite convincing.
  
  The gameplay also felt somewhat broken. Even after adjusting the look sensitivity, it was hard 
 to aim. There is no lock-on option (although, you don't necessarily NEED one, one would be appreciated) . 
 I would find myself over aiming normally, and under aiming in Tequila Time (bullet-time) . The game 
 was also short. Only seven levels, each about an hour long. It seemed that you could just run in 
 a tight circle and spray your enemies with whatever type of bullet you wanted until the room feel 
 silent and you moved on. The whole 'use the environment against your enemies' thing didn't go further 
 than the third level, after than there was little interactivity with the environment.
  
  
  The sounds sounded good for the most part. Most of the weapons had a nice ring to them, although 
 the shotgun wasn't NEARLY as deep as it should have been. The musical score was all right, but 
 nothing really stood out.
  
  All in all, the game wasn't horrid, it just wasn't as good as most expected. With better games 
 out there, I'd say pass this one and play a different game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 14, 2008 3:32 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold outs you in charge of agent Tequila, a chineese police officer in search of a missing 
 cop. You find his picture and badge, and the hunt begins. You must search through explosive levels 
 of gameplay and the most amazing destructive enviroments ever made!
  
  Let's start with the plot. The John Woo experience is brought to this game. The story is really 
 well developed and takes scenes out of the two blockbuster movies of Hard Boiled and The Killer! 
 There are alot of levels in this game but sadly gameplay get's repeative. As for voice acting, 
 i think this game needs a little bit more of a touch on this, as some characters and backing characters 
 voices seem a bit gritty and croaky. Now with the graphics. Compared with Metal Gear Solid 4 and 
 Call Of Duty 4, this games graphics are nothing compared to those, but are still good. Houses look 
 a bit flat, but the enviroment looks ok. Some levels are like mazes, and there are loads of differant 
 routs to take. Also, the fact that nearly everything can be destroyed makes it a truly epic game! 
 You get addicted to playing the same level over and over again to see what else you can destroy, 
 and it's fun! Run into tables and do a flip off them and jump over walls and glide down staircases, 
 really fun to play! But, the graphicsa re a bit overused and shiny, and that's a downfall.
  
  The game uses time well, the levels are very challenging and long. Now, there are a number 
 of special abilities you can use in Stranglehold. one being slow motion, which gives you time to 
 switch between targets at a faster rate than them. The second is a auperb bullet shot, where you 
 aim and watch the bullet fly through the air and blow someones head off! I also like how you can 
 get into mplanes and use the plane gun to shoot oncoming missles and other targets, which is also 
 fun. But please stop using explosice barrels in games. They have gotton way out of fasion. Maybe 
 exploding gas sylinders is nice, but to many barrels make it too easy! Using your gun is great 
 too, but remember to keep them in short shots because you run out of ammo very quickly. There is 
 not usually much around, other than the oppoenents section, where you go into to find a gun with 
 only your fists to survive and you lose alot of your health!
  
  Overall, a really challenging game based on hit movies. It will take you on one hell of a journey 
 but doesn't seem to be quite there yet. I rate this game 7.5 out of 10. Check online for this, 
 as you could get it for $20 or around 15 in the Uk! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nellyg619
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 12, 2008 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Firstly lets get this out of the way and say this game is only good for the single player. The 
 multiplayer feels a useless add on and totally pointless and frustratingly boring to play.
  Now that's out of the way Stranglehold is a good game, faithfully recreating all the cinematic 
 flair and presentation that John Woo is so loved for. The story is great and the constant twists 
 and turns will keep you constantly suprised and will want to make you play on. The graphics are 
 great as well, especially noticable on the character models when it's raining but the destructable 
 environments provide a real feast for the eye as you watch your shotgun bullets blast away walls.
 
  The gameplay itself however is abit hit and miss. It feels great at the beginning and looks real 
 cool diving and shooting in slow mo but that novelty begins to wear off and eventually your left 
 with a sense of tedious repetition of the same moves, which can really hamper the experience. The 
 game is also short aswell, and there's nothing that really compels you to play again without feeling 
 a sense of dread or boredom, and thus this game should really be a rent, but would be an enjoyable 
 one at that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vravage
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 30, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  John Woo, one of my favorite directors, wanted to make a movie but when he saw how great gaming 
 has become, turned his project to the Unreal 3 engine, in my opinion. 
  
  7/10 ::: The story of JW's Stranglehold is quite confusing. But I will put it simple right here: 
 the Dragon Claw, a very powerful Hong-Kong mafia organization, is on the brink of falling down 
 by a new mafia gang. James Wong, the boss of Dragon Claw, calls on a policeman named 'Tequilla' 
 Yuen to find his daughter and granddaughter. Tequilla agrees because the two hostages are his wife 
 and daughter. If the Dragon Claw doesn't surrender, they will die. Tequilla battles his enemies 
 as he battles his past.
  
  8/10 ::: On the graphical area is JW's Stranglehold a beaut. Every wrinkle on the face to smoke 
 of cigarettes is very detailed. In bullet-time you can see everything quite clear. I think the 
 Unreal 3 engine is the best used in this game, even better than the original UT3, Turok or Army 
 of Two. It isn't like Crysis or Overlord, certainly not, but it is stunning at moments to look 
 at the many tiny details.
  
  8/10 ::: The sound in the game from the guns is a bit deranged, most of them sound quite the same. 
 Its like, when you shoot the machine gun it sounds like a shot of the shotgun...
  The voice acting is also horrible, really, but the reason I gave an 8 is because of all the other 
 sounds. There is so much action in the game you don't think anymore of the story so I don't think 
 about the voice acting. (although I would give it a 9 then when it had good voice acting) and you 
 are so busy with the other details you don't mind the gun sounds. 
  
  8/10 ::: Hollywood, face it. Explosions at every corner of your screen. Matrix-like slow-motion 
 (but executed literally 100 times better) and enormous moves you can combine to gain stars. Stars 
 show how stylish your move was. Again, you will be sucked into the game by so many little details. 
 Combat in gameplay trailers at youtube or other movie sites may look a bit complicated but is as 
 simple as it can be. Really. When enemy's melee you, you will have a high chance that you will 
 die immediately. Which is frustrating. So the message is to keep running. Dying isn't simple then. 
 You can also get help by picking up medikits scattered around the rooms. Mostly you will get back 
 you 100% health. There is an unlock system, where you can unlock art, videos and skins for multiplayer. 
 If you want to unlock them, you will need stars you retrieve in the levels. (explained above) If 
 you want to unlock everything in the game, you will have to complete the game about three times. 
 The game is about (for fast players) a day or two for the first playthrough and a day for another 
 playthrough, depending on what difficulty level you are playing of course. There are four difficulty 
 levels for even the weakest of players. People who are veterans in third-person action games will 
 even find Hard (the third difficulty) a bit easy. The fourth is a real piece of work. Online is 
 dead but doesn't affect my points.
  
  Total Score: 78/100 Stranglehold has here and there (big) issues, but other than that, just drop 
 on your seat and get ready for a spiritual sequel of the Matrix and get blown away by the action!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  Games and movies in general seem to be getting closer and closer every year with intially starting 
 at distant cousins to sex-crazy lovers.
  Games being made too movies movies being made too games, it never really works as far as today 
 with the James Bond Series of gaames the only real worth-while movie2game purchases but even they 
 have been slipping a little.
  The story and atmospheres in games has also been reaching the hollywood standards recently with 
 the Metal Gear Solid series as a prime example. Stranglehold is another attempt to create a game 
 that seems more suited as a movie with big name lead voice-actor to the overlly dramatic soundtrack 
 though slightly lacking gameplay.
  
  Stranglehold tells the tale of essentially of a Chinese Steven-Segal type character, hard boiled 
 renegade cop who while always crossing the line with his methods always gets the job done blah 
 blah blah.
  The story has you in the shoes of Tequila, that said renegade super-cop trying to cease some new 
 gang from causing havok, then of course it gets more complicated than that and well plot-twists 
 and betrayal ensue.
  
  The story isn't anything special, definitley from a movie point of view though for a game like 
 this it gets its job done with setting up guys for you to shoot and enviroments to massacre, and 
 massacre is definitely the right choice of word for what can happen in the world of Stranglehold.
 
  
  The gameplay is just like your average 3rd person shooter with a whole lotta destruction and table 
 surfing added into it. Practically 'everything' can be destroyed or used for your advantage such 
 as kicking over a table for cover or blasting through a concrete wall to get to your enemies, destroying 
 everything around you is reason enough for a rental though the badguy blasting gets a little repetitive 
 since thats all you really do. Kill whole army of guys followed by big pissed looked boss with 
 huge gun rinse blood-stains and repeat. Though Tequila fortantly has these tequila-bombs to help 
 spice (and on the harder difficulties) save your asian ass from death. Theres only four but each 
 is fun to use or watch with one giving you a first person view to aim where you want the bullet 
 to hit to a simple infinite ammo killing spree. Without these you still have the incredibly useful 
 tequila time to slow down all thats crashing around you to do some careful aiming.
  The tequila time is pretty cool to experience and reminded me of the much more engaging Max Payne, 
 though hanging off a chandeliar blowing down badguys with a shotgun in slow-mo is still incredibly 
 fun.
  
  Theres about 6-9 hours worth of bloody mayhem and no real reason to go back except to really grind 
 your teeth through harder dificulties which will have you begging for some shorter checkpoints. 
 As unlockables go theres only just skins for the almost useless multiplayer and a couple of ok 
 vid's showing how a cutscene was made ect. Which is a shame because a fast paced shooter like this 
 would of really shone with an infinite ammo mode maybe or even with a choice of costume or character 
 to run around as. Another major let-down is the lack of weapons, theres only a handful to mess 
 around with and a game like this i would of expected a whole selection of different assault rifles 
 shotguns to go through. None the less duel-weilding golden handguns is always cool to blast through 
 with though still another reason why an infinite ammo mode would of made this game so much more 
 fun considering the lack of ammo for the pair.
  
  The sound isn't anything special with ok voice-acting and a forgetable soundtrack. Multiplayer 
 is worth checking out but will last you even shorter than the story.
  Final Score-7.7
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 12:04 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold has been in development for quite a number of years. Way back in E3 2004 to be exact. 
 After two years of limited press, and adding XB360, and PC to its list of consoles, Stranglehold 
 finally is released, and all I can say is "Meh."
  
  Gameplay
  The gameplay of Stranglehold is a mix of The Matrix, A Jackie Chan Movie, complete with repetition. 
 Other similar games such as Max Payne, featured their fare share of repetition but what Payne had 
 was a good story to keep you driving foreword. Unfortunately for Tequila, his story doesn't even 
 compare to Max's film noir story. Which in turn makes the gameplay stale after the first thirty 
 minutes. To be honest, I think they went completely overboard with bullet time effects, explosions, 
 the so called kill cam. The tacked on multiplayer doesn't help matter either. 
  
  Graphics
  The Unreal 3 Engine is used to power the game, and while the game looks great, it comes 
 at a price, the framerate. So much going at once will cause the framerate to cough and sputter 
 like crazy. Also it feels like the Unreal engine is used poorly. The environments are bare, complete 
 with a load of graphical glitches that are rather large, and hard to ignore. The characters on 
 the other hand are quite detailed, but that only goes for Tequila and his cohorts.
  Sound
  Chow Yun Fat reprises his role as Inspector Tequila, to which Mr. Fat voices him in full broken 
 English! As far as the other sounds, they are like this game MEH.
  
  Overall Stranglehold missed on a great opportunity. But cannot hold a candle to likes of Max Payne. 
 A good three day rental should suffice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ballinxcivic
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 31, 2008 9:22 pm PT
Review:  This game has what many games don't, fun gameplay. Unfortunately, that's the only thing this game 
 has. The action is fun but get's repetitive, and enemies come out from no where and start blasting; 
 sometimes you'll have a hard time wondering where they are. Luckily you get a lot of health packs, 
 and style points that allow you to use it as health or special moves. The story wasn't so bad either, 
 and the different environments for each level is awesome. However, this game didn't have that "next 
 gen" feel to it. It felt like a ps2 game with better graphics. I hope they make a Stranglehold 
 2 because this game was a lot of fun, but wasn't perfect. A lot could have been added into this 
 game to make it one of the best, but it still ranks as one of my favorites because it's simply 
 just fun to play. Lot's of action with nice graphics and interesting special moves. There's also 
 multiplayer options as well. The demo doesn't show it's entire potiential so if your not sure about 
 it, then rent it and then decide if you wanna buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 6.5
Date: May 23, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  When I first saw this game I wasn't really that interested on it because it seems like it was made 
 out of a movie and it wouldn't be that good as an original game. I had that experience with Beowulf 
 and now that game has a low rate. Time passed by and I wanted a game so I decided to go for this 
 one and for my surprise, when I started the game The graphic aren't that good.
  The cool part of it is the slow motion when you through yourself on the ground or some object to 
 kill your enemies, I really enjoyed that 
  At some points it looks good, talking about graphics but there some other parts where everything 
 looks fake.
  The history behind it is not that great and it is a short one which it makes the game short too.
 
  I thought I was going to spend at least 2 to 3 weeks to beat it but not instead it took me, I 
 think 3 days and only playing 2 to 2.5 hours a day.
  I was very disappointing for it because I paid 29.99 plus tax and I feel like I should paid 20 
 or less for this type of game.
  You have to know where to find some point to shut your gun so you can destroy pieces of wood or 
 something to make your way out (shining points) because I didn't know about it and I got stuck 
 on some stages of the game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LURCH87
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 21, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Stranglehold has some great next-gen graphics. Characters look life like just like the 
 people who portray them. Stages are over the top and gorgeous with most of them being destroyed 
 by the end of the gunfights. Tequila Time allows you to see the bullets wiz by your head like the 
 matrix. Lighting is spectacular and really helps the game pop off the screen. Blood looks real 
 which is good because it is always all over he place.
  
  Sound: Gunshots ring throughout every stage and explosions are never to far behind. Enemies scream 
 when they are charging at you and when you shot them in the chest with a shotgun. Chow Yun-Fat 
 reprises his role of Inspector Tequila and is believable, but still a little cheesy.
  
  Controls: Fluid controls help this game a lot because there is so much action always happening 
 around you. You can cling to walls, kick up tables for cover, etc. on the fly. L1 allows you to 
 interact with pretty much everything in the different stages such as running up rails, swinging 
 from lamps, kick jumping off walls, etc.
  
  Overall: This game is fun while it lasts, but you still wish it was a little longer. The Tequila 
 Bombs are great my favorite is the barrage one that makes you invincible, gives you unlimited ammo, 
 and has a tight short cinema of you loading up your gun for combat. I have the Collector's Edition 
 that has the movie Hard Boiled and a nice cover with Tequila in a black suit using a Tequila Bomb. 
 If you buy this game though you will not be disappointed.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryk1
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 11, 2008 11:15 am PT
Review:  This game was hyped from the get go, and a let down in the end. There isn't much to be said about 
 this game that's very positive. The detail in the character cut scenes was very good (I could see 
 the neck acne on some of the characters) . It's a lot like a move, in that you never have to reload 
 you weapons, except when it makes some type of cinematic impact. The environments are realistic, 
 yet very cluttered and disruptive to the flow of the overall game play. 
  
  That said; the game play wasn't fully flushed out. I think that the game play could have been smother 
 over all and that the level design could have been executed in such a way that would allow you 
 to move more fluidly through each battle. The controls where good but clumsy at times, like when 
 you walking then all of a sudden your sliding, then rolling, then getting shot. At other times, 
 you're in a fight and someone will come up to you with a shotgun and start shooting, and before 
 you can turn around your dead!
  
  It's these types of little problems that can ruin a game. All the game needed was a little extra 
 attention in the end to make it "a great game that was every thing it could have been". Unfortunately 
 they didn't, and the game really suffered because of the neglect.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 26, 2008 8:19 pm PT
Review:  k I don't agree with a lot of the reviews. I feel that this game should get a bit better than only 
 a 7.0. OK first thing the graphics aren't great, just ok. But the cut scenes look better, and they 
 have great sound. The acting in the cut scenes is great, something you could find straight out 
 of a movie. The main thing about this game that isn't good is that it's way too short and it gets 
 repetitive throughout the game. But it's still a very fun appealing game. One thing that's pretty 
 cool about this game is that it's got online, but it's just alright.. mainly because not many people 
 play it.. Another thing, the weapon selection is pretty poor, all there is, m4, pistol, mp5, and 
 grenades... But overall I think this is a good game but not for the price I paid ($45) .. If you're 
 interested in this game I suggest you play the demo or rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ljonesy2006
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 21, 2008 4:26 pm PT
Review:  First things first midway have made such a better game than all their previous games. But the game 
 is still Crap! The Story i thought didnt make any sense and also dragged on. The graphics and cut 
 scenes were realistic! I Liked the idea of diving arroun n the whole prescision aim idea but i 
 think the game is a definate letdown. There is also very few gamers playing online on stranglehold 
 and i could only ind 1 game on the server with 2 people in the lobby. If you are looking for a 
 good campaign and online multiplayer game i would buy cod4. There could be a chance that midway 
 might develop an update that could encourage online gamers to use the online multiplayer on the 
 game. I think stranglehold suits xbox 360 gamers because despite the boring campaign they can try 
 get achivements to help them towards there gamerscore. If you are wanting to buy this game i would 
 reccomend that you buy it second hand.
  
  Not Worth Buying ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofudan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 24, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  while john woo probably had next to nothing to do with the making of this game (apart from getting 
 paid) , strangehold has more in common with woo's hollywood films than his hong kong portfolio. 
 which is to say, the game takes a bunch of once good ideas, recycles them, and puts them back together 
 in a way that is totally underwhelming.
  
  it's impossible not to think of max payne when playing stranglehold, and while max payne's style 
 borrowed heavily from woo's action films, stranglehold steals the buik of it's gameplay from max 
 payne. except it's way less fun and wrapped in a ham-fisted and undeveloped story. stranglehold 
 often feels like an arcade game in that it's unrealistic to a degree that's distracting. the core 
 idea of slow motion gunplay is great and strangehold is often fun because of it... but it starts 
 to drone on pretty quickly. this is another example of a short game that needs to be short because 
 the gameplay is so shallow.
  
  you're probably better off playing max payne again or watching 'the killer' (which is a much better 
 film than 'hard boiled') to get some woo-esque thrills than shelling out for stranglehold. definitely 
 a rental. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspitus
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 12:07 am PT
Review:  (2.5 out of 5) Story: Stranglehold presents a pretty basic story. You play as a cop named Tequila 
 (who the crud names their son after a drink, honestly) who finds his family kidnapped by the Golden 
 Kane, an underground gang of thugs. Being Tequila and all, he starts shooting everyone, and everything 
 to get his family back. Pretty much your basic search and rescue type of story. Oh well it could 
 be worse, it could have the Burger King involved in it, hahahaha.
  
  (3 out of 5) Gameplay: In Stranglehold you will pretty much be shooting everyone. Shooting them 
 in the head, in the arm, in the legs, in the DINGDONG you know what I mean, the SPOT. The game 
 offer some pretty cool ideas though. Such as precision aiming, where Tequila ignores all outside 
 distractions and shoots a slow moving bullet in your area of choice, I prefer the DINGDONG. The 
 spin attack is pretty cool also, it's a great way to take out all the enemies in the area but at 
 the same time looking cool while doing it. You can also take part in something called Stand-offs 
 where, as you guess, have a stand off with multiple enemies, you can dodge their slow moving bullets 
 and nail one back on them. As much fun as the game is sounding right now, I think its time to point 
 out the flaws. The number of enemies that attack you in the game are REDICULOUS. The enemies aren't 
 so hard, but the sheer amount is just crazy. I would rather fight a smaller amount of enemies that 
 are smart, then a butt-load of enemies that are dumb. It takes away the fun of the game really 
 fast since you will be killing an enemy every 3 seconds which increases the feeling of repetitiveness 
 in the game. The camera can be jumpy in tight closed areas, very bad when you are being overwhelmed 
 by enemies. The missions feel very dull, it usually involves doing a certain amount of things a 
 certain amount of times, like planting explosives, which wouldn't be so bad if they didn't use 
 the same mission over and over again. The game can sometimes lag when there are TOO many enemies 
 on the screen at once and you kill them all with one attack. The thing that the game really lacked 
 and that got to me was a simple JUMP button. If I wanted to get on a ledge I could have just jumped, 
 but no, the game doesn't have a jump button, just a diving button, and when I dive towards the 
 ledge I either go past the ledge or land right next to an enemy that whacks me to death with his 
 freaking GUN! AAAAAAAHHHHH! The gameplay has some potential, but there are soooo many other things 
 wrong with the gameplay that makes Stranglehold hard to enjoy even more.
  
  (5 out of 5) Graphics: The game looks pretty good for a next-gen game. The facial expressions look 
 convincing, and the blood that splatters on Tequila when he kills someone is a nice touch. I really 
 liked how enemies reacted depending on where you shot them. What really sets the game apart graphic 
 wise from other games is the totally AWESOME destructible environments. Almost everything you shot 
 or was being shot at by enemies around you would crumble and turn into ruin. I have to give the 
 game two HUGE thumbs up for the fully detailed and destructible environments. Thank you Stranglehold 
 for not messing this part up. (3.5 out of 5) Sound: The voice acting in the game was alright. The 
 sound effects from the cries of the enemies to the crumbling environments were surprisingly good. 
 But, and this is a HUGE BUTT, hahaha get it. Anyways the sound of the game felt like it was being 
 blocked off, the game sounded like it didn't support my tv's surround sound or something. I know 
 it had to be the game since I never had any problem with that before in any other game I played. 
 Its too bad, Stranglehold could have provided an awesome sensational sound experience if it weren't 
 for that sound problem. Oh well, its all good.
  
  Overall: Stranglehold shows some potential to be one of the best action-packed games of the year, 
 but there are so many problems with the game that take that possibility away. Even with John Woo 
 slapped all over the cover of the game, and it being the sequel to Hard Boiled, I find it hard 
 to fully recommend the game. I only bought it because the game was being sold for 25 dollars in 
 Best Buy, and it was the cheapest PS3 game I found in the store that didn't stink too badly. Hey, 
 at least I didn't get Beowulf, hahaha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcon2000
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Being a Sequel to a Film which revolutionised the Film industry, this game will certainly have 
 a lot to live up to. Also, the director of Hard Boiled, John Woo is the director of this game. 
 Even Chow Yun Fat is back as the hard cop "Tequila" Yeun. So, immediately, you woulds expect this 
 game to have a Movie style to it. Let me tell you, it does. But lets start off from the start shall 
 we?
  
  The main character is Tequila, as from the Film also. Chow Yun Fat has still got his acting in 
 good form, even though it is just his voice. Its not just Chow Yun Fat, but most of the other voice 
 acting cast have excellent voices and have done it well in this film. There are a few exceptions 
 however, but these are easy to miss. One down side with the voice acting is probably the cliche 
 lines that pop up every so often in the game, even though it makes the game feel like a film. Tequlia 
 still remains, however, a funny guy even with the cliches. Its actually not Tequlia which speak 
 the most obvious ones, but some of the other characters. Cliches such as when Tequila emerges from 
 a bar, the cheif said before Not to go alone at which Tequila replies "I didn't, I bought my two 
 friends" showing his two guns are very rare and all in all, not that good.
  
  The Graphics are defiantly a strong point in this game. They are amazing and have such detail. 
 During the cutscenes and the gameplay they are astounding. You really can't tell the difference 
 between the cutscenes and the gamplay except from the two black borders that appear at the top 
 and bottom during the cutscenes. It even goes to the detail of showing Tequila's cuts and gunshots 
 wounds on him when you get pummeled with bullets from all sorts of directions. Although, these 
 of course do have its toll and when a lot happens on the screen at the same time, it will slow 
 down. Still, graphics are very good indeed.
  
  The gameplay itself is basically your running and shooting. Although, you can always go out guns 
 blazing, its sometimes best not too. Although, you really can't hide for long as chances are, the 
 object your hiding behind will likely be destroyed after a few seconds. The environments are mostly 
 destructible, which can be used to your advantage by shooting at loose object to crush the enemies 
 standing below them. Statues, Cars, Boxes, Slot Machines, Tables, Scaffolding are just some of 
 the objects which can collapse or get shot apart into rubble. This really brings a sense of destruction 
 to the game also has a big feel of over the top destruction, but still, you rewarded with it at 
 the end of each level for how much you have cost the world to replace what you have blown apart.
 
  
  As for the weapons, you really do not get much of a choice. You will only be able to carry two 
 at one time, but there is not that much of a range either. Shotgun, Machine gun, 2 pistols, a Machine 
 gun and a "Golden" Pistol that kills the bad guys in one shot. You also get to carry a few grenades, 
 but apart from that, you are limited to whats available to you.
  
  The Tequlia Bomb is really quite unique. You basically have 4 options. Heal yourself, if you have 
 no access to any health packs. The "Precision Aim" to zoom in, slow time down and fire at enemies 
 that are quite a distance away. The cool thing about that is that in slow motion time it follows 
 the bullet and then, depending on where it hits, it will show the enemy die from his gun wound, 
 unless of course you hit him on the hand of leg/ Thirdly you have the "Barrage" which is basically 
 go crazy time. Infinite ammo, invincible, double damage. You basically destroy anything that is 
 in your way for a few seconds. Fourthly is the "Spin attack". Tequlia goes into a little cinematic 
 where he spins around firing rounds off in different styles deepening on what weapon you have equipped. 
 This basically kills all the enimies that were around you and not hidden by any unbreakable object 
 or not in Tequlias 360 Degree view.
  
  The Sound of this game also sets the mood. Basically fast paced when theres things exploding around 
 you and there's the suspenseful music when you are walking around. The music does also make it 
 feel like a interactive film, but during gameplay sometimes you can't hear the music with all the 
 shouting and destruction going on around you.
  
  Most of the time the camera angle will be behind tequila, you can rotate it to look behind you 
 or too look at Tequlias bloody shirt, but during the cinematics they certainly do have a movie 
 style, and also have just about the same camera styles as John Woos film "Hard Boiled" which this 
 game is based after.
  
  The Story, however, is not as good as in the film of "Hard Boiled" There are a few moments of surprise 
 where the plots twists, but these are are and because of the short storyline they are quickly resolved. 
 Because of the short storyline you will be able to play and complete this game in a matter of 6 
 hours if played non stop and knew what you were doing. What makes it even shorter is the difficulty, 
 set to easy its too easy, set to hard, its too hard. Because of the original multi-player deathmatch 
 online being quite boring a repetitive, once you complete the game, you won't really have anything 
 to come back to as most of its the same. Sure you have an unlock shop, but there are movies on 
 how the game got made and artwork. However, this game would be great choice if you just wanted 
 to go on a rampage at some point and destroy near enough everything, so there is one little reason 
 to come back to the game, but sadly it proberly won't be enough.
  
  This game really does outweigh its weakpoints with its strong points, but because it is so short, 
 once you complete the game, you will have hardly a reason to come back to it, maybe for some fun, 
 but that really is about it. Still, a fun game to play and a great graphical game as well. Maybe 
 we will see more action games like this? For now, its a good game, but for how Long? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateFK
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2008 6:23 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons (+ & - )
  --------------------------------
  
  + Decent storyline
  + HD Graphics
  + Full gun fights
  + Massive replay value
  + Solid difficulty modes
  + PS3 
 gets Hardboiled movie (w/ collector's edition)
  
  - 360 achievements, no full movie?
  - PS3 full movie, no achievements?
  - Strictly gunfighting
  - Multiplayer is completely tacked 
 on
  
  Review
  --------------------------------
  
  Very well done game. Good graphics, has a real John Woo movie feel to it, an acceptable assortment 
 of weapons (come on people. You don't need 17 different rifles, 10 different pistols, a mingun, 
 rocket launcher, AND grenades to make it fun do you?) , and the PS3 collector's edition comes with 
 Hardboiled.
  
  Now reasons for loss of score. I'll make this quick
  
  1) The PS3 version of the collector's edition took longer and still didn't put in achievements 
 or skill points of any kind, which would have been fun, but then for the 360 collector's edition 
 they don't let you watch Hardboiled. Doesn't seem like there's much to collect.
  
  2) As awesome and crazy has the gunfighting is... that's it. Just gunfighting. At least in a FPS 
 they let you sit in a vehicle and fire out the window or from a machine gun. You don't even need 
 to find a key or solve a puzzle or anything. just kill all the guys.
  
  3) The multiplayer. All I can say is "Come on! What is this?!" I've played this game for about 
 30+ hours and still cringe at how "ignored" the online play is.
  
  All rants aside the game is solid. A full on action-movie style coupled with a massive replay value 
 and tight controls is just what your PS3/360 library needs. Throw in a free movie in HD and it 
 only sweetens the deal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 15, 2008 9:01 pm PT
Review:  This is my favourite game. Obviously not the best game around, as other games such as Heavenly 
 Sword have more quality and are better taken care of. But this game is easy, satisfying and, of 
 course, fun.
  
  Killing a bandit is everybody's daydream, I'm sure. But what if you can kill him with that semi-automatic 
 M4 while jumping across a watermelon stand? Doesn't that sound better? More stylish? Well you can 
 do that in Stranglehold.
  
  Sure, the online is not THAAAAAT good, but it's the reason you'd buy this game. Why would you buy 
 Heavenly Sword? After you beat it 3 times, you should get tired.
  
  But not in an online game. How can you get tired of playing online? I can't, at least. That is 
 why I hunt (I mean HUNT) 3rd person shooters with online mode. Sure I like awesome FPS's like Resistance 
 or Unreal Tournament 3. But this is a lot better.
  
  But like all online games (at least to me) you can't play, like, 5 hours in a row. You get tired. 
 and that's it. The next day you wake up and you have that crazy wish to play it. But that's not 
 bad: It's good. It keeps you away from addiction.
  
  By the way, the multiplayer has no lag. It's like a mini-Warhawk, only with no tanks, airplanes 
 or jeeps. But the shooting is basically the same, only it's less fast-paced (DONT WORRY, IT'S STILL 
 VERY FAST PACED) and more realystic and you can just jump around as you please.
  
  Do us both this favor and buy this game. Helps everybody. I have another buddy to play online with 
 and you have this masterpiece of gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 1:12 am PT
Review:  So have you guys been playing "The matrix" or "Max payne" on the PS2? then you'll definately find 
 it similar in some ways.
  Just completely the game, feeling satisfying now especially with the "Hard-Boiled" movie and unlockable 
 contents.
  
  Gameplay:
  Incredible good, or should i say, unique in it's own way, it comprises of many different aspects. 
 There's bullet time where ur accuracy and avoidability increases, u can switch it on auto or manually. 
 There's also the 4 special skills tequila uses on the direction pad, they're Healing, Precision 
 aim, Unlimited bullets and around killing. It's good in it's own way, but u can only kill ppl under 
 bullettime to refill ur special skills gauge. There's quite a few levels, each being in a totally 
 different environment which is fully interactive. Sometimes i felt frastrating especially during 
 the drug table level, where it's giving me headaches turning around and around finding things on 
 small alleys.
  
  Grahpics:
  Unreal Engine 3, of course it's good, at least better than "Blacksite" which also uses UT engine. 
 Graphics quality wise, i have UT3, both are as good, especially the water and charactor facials. 
 Nothing much to complain here, the games doesn't lag as well when there's many players on the screen.
 
  
  Storyline:
  As good or better than the movie counterpart, since it's going to be some spoilers, all i wanna 
 say is that the plot is there and it's good. I don't think there'll be any sequel.
  
  Pros:
  -Great plot, storyline
  -Graphics are great
  -Very good environment interactivity
 
  -Great sound and music
  -Great cutscenes although somewhat repitivie
  -Collector's edition isn't too expensive
  -A variety of environments
  -Game is well balanced
 
  
  Cons:
  -Drug table level environment is kind of bad
  -Short
  -enemies spawn when u don't clear them
  -sometimes camera disappoints
  
  All in all, it's 
 a short but exciting and unique experience, no idea for the 7/10 rating from gamespot, this is 
 definately a good game and worth the buy. Bad thing is it's short but has replayability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 24, 2007 2:43 am PT
Review:  strangle hold on the ps3 was a game i waited for since 06 hell i got so sick of the delays i said 
 the hell with this game.... well last week my friend eric said he will sell me his ps3 collectors 
 edition for 39. dollars and 60 cents and well what i got in return was a fun very brutal bloody 
 repetitve and somewhat confusing john woo action game.
  
  GAMEPLAY. gameplay is very action packed and easy to control as tequila u dive around in slomow 
 shooting dudes in the face chest groin any place u can think off. and when u kill a guy u get stlye 
 stars and these style star r earned by pulling off combo kill like diving on a roll cart and popping 
 some dudes well the star fill up ur tequila bomb gauge and this will allow u to pull of some crazy 
 super moves u unlock later in the game gameplay is about a 8.0.
  
  SOUND. well sound is great from weapons firing to the enviorments breaking apart this game sounds 
 great also voice acting by woo and fat themselves neat huh.9.0
  
  GRAPHICS. graphics r decent characters look pretty good but with some stilted animations. the enviorments 
 are pretty good looking and look great being destroyed. also the woo and fatt chracters look great.7.0
 
  
  STORY. is good but very confusing and has u guessing who is who and wat is wat very bad story involving 
 wierd methlab and russian and hong kong gang stuff very bad story.4.5
  
  multiplayer. sucks and is boring very generic. 2.0
  
  OVERALL. stranglehold is fun short derative 
 but will be rembered for its major destructibality and overall action so dont spend anymore then 
 30 to 40 dollars on this game.. or pretty much just rent it really. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: juicetino
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2007 11:24 pm PT
Review:  Stranglehold is a fun, fast-paced action shooter that will keep you entertained... for a short period 
 of time. Campaign is about only 5hrs long, and online is un-interesting.
  
  The gameplay of Stranglehold is the best aspect of the game. Tequila-time (slowing down time and 
 killing peeps) proves to be more than just a gimmick, although you tend to dive around slow-mo 
 too much. There are only a handful of guns, and you have a relentless amount of ammo by picking 
 up dead dudes' weapons and picking them up throughout the levels (not saying its a good or bad 
 thing) .
  
  Tequila-powers a pretty nice advantage. Tequila-power is gained by doing "stylish" kills (a. k. a 
 hanging off chandeleirs and killing peeps, running up handrails and killing peeps, sliding down 
 handrails and killing peeps, diving and killing peeps, etc. and killing peeps) . It also comes by 
 picking up paper cranes scattered across the level. This is used in any of 4 ways:
  
  - regain health (small amount of power) \
  - slow-mo accurate shot (a. k. a snipe, medium amount 
 of power)
  -barrage attack using vast amounts of infinite ammo with your gun (more power)
  -spin attack, killing everyone around you while spinning in a circle (most amount of power)
  
 
  These are good and help for your advantage, but during easy it comes too quickly (stylish kills 
 too easy, too many paper cranes) but gets the job done well. 
  
  The graphics of Stranglehold are another strong point of the game, though aren't as amazing as 
 some other PS3/360 games. Cutscenes aren't that amazing unless you have HD hooked up, but in-game 
 graphics are better than some games.
  
  The story is interesting, full of twisted ties and revenge, although doesn't seem that satisfying. 
 Bosses are way easy to kill (just keep shooting them, using tequila-time and tequila-power) but 
 Tequila as a character is pretty badass.
  
  Online is a poor aspect and shouldn't be looked at as a reason to play the game. That's all i'm 
 going to say, although you can try it out if you like.
  
  So, my final verdict states: Stranglehold is fun for a short period of time (took me a few days 
 during a 7-day rental to finish) and is nice during a game drought, but there are better games 
 out there to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 19, 2007 10:09 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold effectively takes the elements used in such games as Max Payne and uses them to its 
 own advantage with a number of original touches.
  
  Stranglehold takes place years after the film Hard Boiled. Chow Yun-Fat reprise his role as Inspector 
 Tequila. He's still a rogue cop on the Hong Kong police force. After a fellow officer comes up 
 dead at the hands of a major Hong Kong gang, Tequila does what he does best and goes on a rampage 
 to bring them to justice. The story can become confusing at times and is not the greatest to say 
 the least. It is a pretty standard Asian action storyline. Not saying it is lame or boring, just 
 saying it is average. Tequila's former girlfriend and daughter both end up being held hostage by 
 one of the gangs. With gangs double- and triple-crossing one another. The story holds up enough 
 to make the player at least want to finish it and know how it all ends.
  
  Stranglehold is a very short game. I would say maybe about 10 hours, if that. It seems the levels 
 start out quite long and then seem to get shorter and shorter as you go on. Although in that short 
 amount of time you will kill alot of people in alot of cool ways. Although there is tons of action 
 movies and specials you can do to kill people it still gets repetitive moving from one room killing 
 people just to go a few steps to another room and do the exact same thing. Enemies come out usually 
 out of doors in the corners of each room, which can be a pain sometimes. You find yourself overwhelmed 
 and panicy when not able to find where you are being shot when it happens to be right behind you. 
 trust me, if you have played the game you know exactly what I am talking about. What makes you 
 a one man army against the waves of gang members is the ability to jump, dive and even swing in 
 slow motion as you shoot them all down. Which is called "Tequila Time" in the game. Basicly the 
 same thing used in Max Payne with a spiffy name. You will automaticly go into Tequila Time when 
 jumping around as long as you are shooting and have someone to shoot at. However you can manually 
 use it also by pressing L2 at anytime, not that you ever really need to.
  
  Tequila also has the ability to interact with just about anything on any level. For example you 
 can run up to a table and slide across it or kick it over and use it as a sheld of type. Although 
 Tequila slides over everything just by touching it. Sometimes it can get in the way by making you 
 slide infront of gang members shooting at you when you just want to hide. You can shoot different 
 parts of the environment such as signs and barrels to kill the bad guys. Pulling off such stylish 
 moves throughout the game fills up a meter that lets you trigger one of four different "Tequila 
 bombs".
  
  Tequila bombs are special abilities that do everything from recharging your health, to letting 
 you spin around like a gun-toting whirling dervish, killing all the enemies that surround you, 
 each useful in its own right. One great example is the accurate-shot ability, which lets you move 
 a targeting reticle in slo-mo to any part of an enemy's body, and then watch the bullet fly directly 
 to its target (This is my favorite of all) .
  
  Another thing this game offers which is kind of interesting is the "stand Off" ability. When Tequila 
 gets ambushed by a group of gang members he will go into this stand off mode that gets the camera 
 right on top of Tequila's sholder and you have to shoot the enemies in slow motion while dodging 
 their bullets also coming at you in slow motion. You do not move around at all, just from the waist 
 up and you move left to right to dodge these bullets. It is quite stupid because no way are you 
 going to have four or five bad guys surround you and then shoot one at a time until you have killed 
 them all.
  
  There are some production bonuses to buy through an extras shop, but nothing to get excited about. 
 The multiplayer is dead, I went on a few times to find no rooms what so ever, so I gave up on trying 
 to play it online. So with a average storyline, great action and moves Stranglehold is a fun game 
 without any real replay value, other than to get the story straight. Also the Special Edition for 
 the PS3 comes with hard Boiled, if you are into John Woo films that is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nolan16
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Graphics: 7.0 out of 10 for next gen the graphics can be considered average or okay nothing of 
 great caliber or of amazing beauty they are okay they have there moments like the slow bullet time 
 seeing the guy get shot in the head and the blood spurt out but thats about it.
  
  Gameplay: 8.0 out of 10 the game play for most part is smooth and fun but it's not original it's 
 just like every other game of this brand like Max Payne or gunz online it has that same fast pace 
 feeling which is fluent but so common a lot of the animations you will see are the same as games 
 like gunz online and Max Payne there are a few new ones like sliding down a rail or jumping on 
 a moving cart but nothing revolutionary over par at best
  
  Sound: 8.0 out of 10 - The sound is here again over par but nothing really that will catch your 
 attention sounds like Max Payne mixed with gunz online theres nothing flashy about it there pretty 
 much upgraded max payne sounds.
  
  Fun Factor: 7.5 out of 10 - while the game is fun for a couple of hours ( maybe like 3 to 5) it 
 gets repetitive the same thing over and over and over again sliding down rails going into bullet 
 time seeing that same blood spurt in slow motion, which the story is cool and all but it's nothing 
 that sucks you in and makes you want to know what happens next I mean your a guy that had his cop 
 friend killed and your basically looking for clues for who killed him I mean if you turn on HBO 
 or cini-max you'll probably find a similar movie in about 10 minuets. The game is rather short 
 but it's actually a good thing if they made it longer it probably would have become a chore to 
 finish it.
  
  Multiplayer: 8.0 out of 10 - if you ever played gunz online this is like a upgraded version of 
 that you jump around shooting sliding down rails dodging and firing doing flips basically like 
 a scene from the matrix, while it is fun for a little bit it gets old quick and you can only play 
 it in small portions.
  
  Overall: 7.5 out of 10 - this game is one of those games you are going to want to rent for a fun 
 weekend to relax and play a game because it will keep you interested for 2-4 days at most and after 
 that the replay is quite bland and unattractive and it gets rather boring while the game play is 
 fun we've seen it before the graphics are alright but could of been a lot better the sound it's 
 like a action flick there over par, Multiplayer is fun but it gets boring after a while. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Animal-Mother
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  John Woo, A FIlm Pioneer creates a video game sequel to his awesome 90's action film hard boiled. 
 To date i personally feel that this is one of the better ps3 games i have played to date. The action 
 flows smoothly, the mechanics awesome, and the moves fun. It may seem like a max payne knock off 
 but it seems everything but that. It's definatly one of those games that suprises you when you 
 first start playing, it has all the things you wish you could do in a shooter like this. In a way 
 it does capture the essence of a John Woo Movie, and your in for a bonus with the collectors edition 
 you get a copy of the great action movie hard boiled wether or not its blue ray i still have yet 
 to determine but, its worth it . Two things for the price of one could never be this good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: orionballa1
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:37 am PT
Review:  it was a fun game. at times however, it did seem a little redundant and it was very predictable. 
 the duration of the game was probably too short and it was kind of disappointing. the cut scenes 
 were good and acted out great. it was sometimes difficult to do some of the environmental things 
 that your are supposed to do with ease and that made the game somewhat annoying. the multi-player 
 part of the game is cluttered and can be very difficult but it is fun. all in all it was a good 
 game that you will enjoy the whole time that you are playing it and will probably go back to replay 
 many times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 4:04 am PT
Review:  Stranglehold id modern shooter that is better than the X-360 version.
  
  The Story itself is fine , but the game isnt much of a challenge. One of the most worst parts of 
 the game is the camera, like when u use the slow motion and land to the ground the camera will 
 be funky .The obstacles doesnt let u shoot smoothly , but it makes a good shield.
  
  The 360 vrrsion was the 1st that was created , But the PS3 version added some good bunus. The enviroment 
 disagin was good BUT way too many crates and stuff like that. U can also doge bullets which makes 
 it cool but gets reppetive and also some shooting. The game also isnt so long you will beat it in 
 10 hours Overall Stranglehold is Great game , But has too much probs but its still a great game. 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
