-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Street Fighter IV
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/streetfighteriv/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous character models, animations, and background art.
 Comprehensive multiplayer modes.
 Accessible but nuanced gameplay.
 Plenty of replay value for completionists.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 No tournament mode.
 Online play suffers if either fighter's connection is slow.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 18, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 9.3, 46 Review (s)
User Score: 8.9, 1,783 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Capcom
Genre: 3D Fighting
Date: Feb 17, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Robust and challenging single-player modes, strong online multiplayer, and gorgeous visuals make 
 this a must-have for any fighter fan. 

  It's obvious that each iteration of the long-running Street Fighter series has been carefully tuned 
 and tweaked to the finest degree, and nowhere is this more apparent than in Street Fighter IV. 
 The lessons learned in the franchise's 20-plus years have been used to prune back the core fighting 
 experience to create something truly special. Street Fighter IV isn't a success simply because 
 it's one of the most technically complex 2D fighters ever made, it's a success because it's also 
 wrapped inside a layer of absolute accessibility. Never has the old "A minute to learn, a lifetime 
 to master" adage been truer than it is here.  

           Six new characters join the Street Fighter IV roster, all with their own unique backstories 
 and abilities.      

  The Street Fighter fundamentals have remained consistent over the years; your job is to knock out 
 the other guy or gal. All 12 of the classic world warriors -- Ryu, Ken, Chun-Li, Blanka, E. Honda, 
 Zangief, Guile, Dhalsim, Balrog, Vega, Sagat, and M. Bison -- are back and playable from the outset, 
 and they're joined by six brand-new and diverse characters. Abel, a mixed martial arts grapple-style 
 character; Crimson Viper a female fighter with sweeping, airborne fire attacks; Rufus, a rotund 
 fighter whose body makes him a bit of a sight gag despite his deceptive speed; and El Fuerte, a 
 pro wrestler whose rushes and air throws make him a slippery foe. Ryu and Ken's sensei, Gouken, 
 also makes his playable-character debut in Street Fighter IV. Naturally, he didn't teach the boys 
 everything he knows, so when they meet again he has a few tricks up his sleeves, including a horizontal 
 and vertical fireball EX move. The game's new end boss, Seth, fills the last spot and joins the 
 list once you've unlocked everyone else. Character balance is absolutely spot-on across the entire 
 roster, and as a result, you should never feel that you can't compete simply because you've chosen 
 one character over another.  

  You'll need to finish the game multiple times and in special ways to unlock the complete character 
 list. Doing so will make fan favourites Cammy, Sakura, Akuma, Fei Long, Rose, Gen, and Dan playable. 
 Like previous games in the series, Street Fighter IV lets you perform powerful super combos, but 
 it has removed air blocking and parrying completely. Developers Capcom and Dimps have added a completely 
 new gameplay system: focus attacks, a new multipurpose offensive and defensive ability that can 
 be charged to one of three levels by pressing and holding the medium punch and kick buttons simultaneously. 
 There's no onscreen bar to show how charged your attack is, so you'll need to rely on the progressively 
 darkening ink splashes surrounding your character model. Each character features a unique focus 
 animation, so you shouldn't have any trouble working it out after a few rounds with each. Focus 
 attacks make you vulnerable to damage because you need to be standing still to charge them (though 
 you can dash forward or backward to cancel them) , but the trade-off is that you'll absorb the first 
 hit without the penalty of an animation reset, allowing for an instant counterattack if you land 
 it. They can also act as armour-breaking moves, shutting down more-powerful attacks. Successfully 
 landing a fully charged focus attack will deal damage and crumple your opponent to the ground, 
 giving you the chance to follow up with an unblockable hit as he or she falls.  

  The new mechanic also lets you use part of your EX power-meter charge to exit animations early 
 and chain bigger combos together. They take a little getting used to and some serious thumb dexterity, 
 but once they're mastered, you can perform moves such as dragon-punch stalls directly into super 
 moves or use them to juggle players in midair with multiple hits. Your revenge meter builds as 
 you take damage, whereas the EX meter fills as you dish it out. EX power rolls over to the next 
 round, but revenge must be built from scratch each time. This becomes a crucial risk-versus-reward 
 mechanic. Do you take hits to build revenge and power up an ultra attack, or do you deal damage 
 to burn your EX on improved moves, cancels, or save it for a super finisher? The flexibility of 
 this system means that you're free to play according to your strengths and style. But just like 
 reversals, EX power-ups, and ultra combo attacks, focus attacks serve to mix up the experience 
 only for veteran players; such is the game's balance that they have never been required to win 
 a match, and they act more as an additional weapon in the arsenal of a skilled player. They're 
 waiting for you when you want to take a step up and learn how they work, but well-timed basic punches 
 and kicks are just as effective.  

           Classic world warriors make a return with gorgeous new character models.      

  The 
 single-player mode is robust and has a lot to offer across several components. Arcade mode pits 
 you against a set number of fights from your unlocked-character roster and culminates in a showdown 
 with Seth. Along the way to your goal, you'll always encounter a rival fight. These are regular 
 fights accompanied by an in-engine exchange with your opponent. They're a welcome mix-up but often 
 add nothing to the character's storyline because some fighters clearly don't even know why they 
 hate one another. Each character's adventure is bookended by an anime-style cinematic movies that 
 explain his or her motivations for attending the tournament. They're quite short and keep story 
 to an absolute minimum, but they get the message across and do a reasonable-enough job of filling 
 in the gaps. Given the amount of additional content shoehorned into this game, we were slightly 
 disappointed to find that no bonus levels have been included, especially since we had high hopes 
 of reliving our car and barrel smashing from Street Fighter II.  

  Regardless of whether you're down with busting out a tatsumaki senpukyaku at will or think it's 
 some kind of egg-noodle dish, there's a difficulty mode here for you. Eight levels ranging from 
 very easy to hardest are available, so you're sure to find one appropriate for your skill level. 
 That said, even at the gentler difficulties, Street Fighter IV is no cakewalk because your opponents 
 will occasionally mix things up with surprise super and ultra combos. First-timers will have no 
 trouble picking up, playing, and learning as they go. Playing on the medium or above difficulty 
 will also enable score tracking, letting you submit and compare to other players on the game's 
 online leaderboards.     

   

  Street Fighter IV's training mode will challenge even experienced brawlers to improve. Given that 
 SFIV straddles the line between classic SFII and SFIII gameplay, there's bound to be some confusion 
 about which of your old mainstay combos work and the timing that you'll need to pull them off. 
 The training mode is an excellent resource and is one of the biggest jewels in the SFIV crown. 
 Once you've chosen your character and your sparring partner, you'll be able to pose them in either 
 a standing, crouching, or jumping position, toggle CPU control (and adjust its intensity) , or give 
 player two control of the action. There's even the ability to switch to your opponent's character, 
 record up to 10 seconds of custom moves, and loop their replay. It's a great way to practice your 
 evasion, attack timing, and counters without requiring another player or needing to search for 
 online games. As you'd expect, there are plenty of switches to fiddle with here, including changing 
 your target's block mode, stun frequency, ultra and super power-bar start, and regeneration levels. 
 Live attack data can be enabled to show how much damage your moves are dealing, whereas input display 
 can show you which way you're pushing the sticks and mashing the buttons.  

  A built-in move list is available through the menu and details all of your characters' skills, 
 saving you the hassle of fumbling around for the manual when you can't remember if it's a double-quarter-forward 
 fireball with a kick or a punch, or finding out which moves have EX variants or armour-breaking 
 properties. Though training modes aren't new, the amount of control here will have a genuine impact 
 on your game, and can be used to pinpoint, and subsequently correct, your play shortcomings.  

 
           Super and ultra combo finishing moves really rub it in your opponent's face with drawn-out, 
 flashy animations.      

  Training mode aside, one of the single best features of Street Fighter IV is the Challenge mode, 
 which is made up of several sub-modes. Old faithfuls such as Time Attack and Survival mode make 
 an appearance and see you completing fight after fight to best your rival before the timer runs 
 out or you empty your vitality bar. The new addition to Challenge mode is Trial mode, a multitiered 
 training tool that will teach you not only how to perform moves, but also how to string them together 
 to best deal damage. Although the Training mode gives you the full arsenal and space to try it 
 out, in Trial mode you'll need to perform a specific manoeuvre or combo to continue. The five normal 
 difficulty levels cover basic character-specific moves such as dragon punches, charge moves, and 
 throws, but they get significantly tougher as you progress to cover specials, canceling attacks 
 with focus, and stringing multipart combinations together. If you can get through these and feel 
 up to the challenge, there are an extra five levels of bone-crushing general-purpose moves designed 
 to help you improve your competitive play.  

  Street Fighter IV supports both online and offline multiplayer modes. In offline you'll be able 
 to go head-to-head with a second player using your unlocked characters. Online you'll be given 
 the choice of either friendly Player matches or Ranked games. Winning a ranked match awards you 
 with battle points, which are used to both show off your prowess and help with the matchmaking 
 process, though you can search for games beyond your skill level. Stat tracking will let you see 
 your competitor's win-to-loss ratio for the session. And if you're after the true arcade experience, 
 you can toggle online competitive challenge mode on and off to work with single-player. Just as 
 you would expect in an arcade, if you're battling the CPU and someone issues a challenge, your 
 game will pause and you'll automatically accept the invitation. Once the game has finished and 
 you leave the multiplayer lobby, you'll restart your offline game from where you were. You can 
 set it to either player or ranked matches as per your preference. We'd recommend leaving it off 
 if you're keen to just play through arcade matches, given that we received back-to-back invites 
 while reviewing. We played online against opponents with both strong and weak connections, and 
 even at slightly less than full connection strength, you'll receive an offline-like, seamless fighting 
 experience. Poorer connections are more akin to a slide show, although we did manage to find games 
 with supposedly poor connections that played quite well. There's also no online tournament mode 
 to be found here, a surprising omission given its inclusion in the downloadable game Super Street 
 Fighter II Turbo HD Remix.  

  Though it was unavailable for us to test at time of review, Capcom has confirmed that at some time 
 postlaunch a free download dubbed the Championship Mode Expansion Pack will be released and will 
 let you record, upload, and download player match videos. The patch will also add three more point 
 systems -- Championship, Tournament, and Grade points -- and improve matchmaking for beginner and mid-level 
 players. We're hoping that the patch also addresses players who leave games early to avoid point 
 loss, considering that currently there's no penalty for bailing if it looks like you're going to 
 lose. Collectors also have plenty of work ahead of them, with coloured outfit variations, taunts, 
 medals, icons, and text tags being rewarded for completing online and offline challenges. These 
 can be assigned to your online profile and are unlocked by finishing games with certain percentages 
 of your vitality bar remaining, dishing out perfect victories, or successfully performing reversals. 

  Street Fighter IV's visual presentation is outstanding. The art style appears a lot more adult 
 this time around, swapping the bright Saturday-morning kids' cartoon looks of previous games for 
 large, menacing characters with bulging muscles and environments with more muted colour palettes. 
 The game's pseudo-cel-shaded character-art style uses thick black borders and splattered ink to 
 great effect, while fast, fluid animation sees your favourite fighters dance across the screen 
 with grace. Long hair flows and trails, facial expressions contort and grimace as you deal blows, 
 and eyes bulge as opponents see an ultra attack successfully executed. We observed a few minor 
 character-model clipping errors during play, such as legs passing through each other and the odd 
 missed sweep when we were sure that we should have landed a hit, but these are small quibbles because 
 they appeared few and far between. Battle environments are a mix of old and new, reinventing favourites 
 such as Guile's airbase tarmac (complete with destructible plane wings) , Blanka's jungle walkways, 
 and Chun-Li's marketplace alleyway. New environments include a secret science laboratory, a highway 
 underpass, a classic martial-arts dojo, and the rim of an active volcano.  

  Audio is a particular high point in SFIV, and though the J-pop soundtrack and cheesy intro theme 
 will be driven into your head within minutes, it's also worth mentioning the subtle environmental 
 effects that go otherwise unheard in the heat of battle. The cheers of crowds, the rattle of old 
 trains, and the barking of dogs in alleys all help create a genuine sense of immersion. Purists 
 are even given the option to choose between Japanese and English voice-overs during cutscenes and 
 as characters enter the ring.  

           Blotchy ink splashes and thick character outlines are used to give the game an incredibly 
 stylish look.      

  From our extensive play on both platforms, the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions of the game 
 appear identical both in terms of visuals and performance. Even during the most frenetic battles, 
 the frame rate remained solid. Both versions of SFIV offer an optional hard-drive installation, 
 and though it lowered load times from about 30 seconds per game to the 10-second mark on the PlayStation 
 3, on the Xbox 360 it had no tangible effect, presumably because those loads are already around 
 10 seconds per match. Xbox 360 analog sticks seemed slightly easier to perform ultra moves with, 
 though the Microsoft controller's D pad left plenty to be desired. By contrast, the DualShock 3 
 analogs felt slightly sluggish, but the D pad made double fireballs and ultra combos easy. Your 
 best bet, of course, is to invest in a good arcade stick or one of the controllers designed specifically 
 for this game.  

  Street Fighter IV will welcome you with open arms, whether you're a lapsed fan concerned that you've 
 been out of the loop for too long or you're dipping your toes for the first time. Amazing presentation, 
 intricate and enjoyable fighting gameplay, and long-term appeal with online play make this a must-have. 
 Street Fighter IV is undoubtedly one of the finest examples of the fighting genre in this generation. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (125 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: saborzero
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 19, 2009 10:43 am PT
Review:  For anyone who has played the Street Fighter games before, you already know that this game should 
 be worth a buy. Still, I'm writing this review to give a good overhead view of all the goods and 
 the bads of the game. To all the new fans; This is worth the buy but if you don't have the patience 
 to get good at this game, just rent it or never go online. If you do have patience then by all 
 means purchase this game.
  
  The Graphics-
  
  The Good: The graphics are great and add a more comic book look to the game in my opinion. The 
 frame rates are all perfect so to this day I have not seen a glitch yet. The lighting of the game 
 is also done great for any tv you play on.
  
  The Bad: If you don't have an HDTV, then prepare to go blind trying to read small texts and moves 
 from the command list ESPECIALLY in the trial modes. All you can see is red red and more red. This 
 is more of a TV issue but they could have note put so much red in that area of the game and made 
 the txt bigger or the move set text a little bigger. 
  
  The Controls-
  
  The Good: You can either use a joystick or a ps3 game controller for this game. If you own the 
 360 version, you would be better off grabbing the joystick or a different type of controller because 
 it is not built to play fighting games in my opinion. WIth this version you can be good either 
 way you choose with little trouble. The buttons respond well to command and are easy to pull off 
 with a little/no practice. The learning curve is simple, but that depends on how well you can adapt 
 to fighters. 
  
  The Bad: The analog stick on the PS3 controller is bad. If you plan on using it just go buy the 
 fightstick instead of using it. It can be used well to a degree but if you are primarily going 
 to use it, don't bother using the controller at all.
  
  The Difficulty- 
  
  The Good: They put the game in multiple difficulty settings so you can choose the one most comforting 
 to your play style
  
  The Bad: The final boss. No matter what setting you put it on, he is really hard which may discourage 
 beginners. However I don't really know if they did but they may have included a patch to change 
 that. 
  
  The Online-
  
  The Good: Its always fun to fight new people from around the world and their is a small issue with 
 lag. I've faced people with no bars and experience no lag at all before. It's weird but true.
 
  
  The Bad: The lack of creativity with characters and moves. It's understandable that fighting games 
 are made to win at any costs but it will get rediculous fighting someone like Sagat who has an 
 very long reach and high power and fast attacks online. Fireball spammers and uppercut abusers 
 are everywhere so you have to figure out a stratagy for everyone. 
  
  Overall- The game is worth the buy and the price with great replay value and enough things to make 
 you come back for more. It is good for players new and old and is definately a game to stay in 
 your collection 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Derugs
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 8:49 am PT
Review:  First of all if your reading this and don't have the game yet what the hell are you waiting on. 
 The game is wonderful. Recent complaints suggested that he control scheme is too stiff meaning 
 that your motion control movements to execute moves have to be near perfect to pull them off. This 
 is wrong. It all requires skill and once you get the gist of the motion it becomes second nature. 
 I rarely have a problem pulling of moves and anialiate my opponents. 
  
  My biggest concern is the speed of the game. Its good for default but the option in previous street 
 fighters controlling game speed would have been good here. Its the first series of the next generation 
 catalog and I'm sure there are much more to come. Buts its an idea that capcom has been using why 
 is it not present here. At best its more than you can ask for in a game and very addictive I might 
 add. A blast when your online kicking your friends *ss. Lots of entertainment here a must get; 
 I'm sure most of your friends already have this game... why not join in the brawl. B EZ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RipTheJacker420
Rating: 6
Date: Apr 18, 2009 5:47 pm PT
Review:  I liked the online play it offers non stop action with fast game match ups. I also like the Game 
 play which is a buffed up version of the original. Graphics are ok and the story line is really 
 corny.
  
  My only MAJOR complaint is why i will not by the game. How sad is it when you can kill your opponent 
 in 3 combos including the first hit.. When the first hit takes off 1/4 of the power bar and all 
 it takes is 2 throws and one special move to kill your opponent I started to wonder why they managed 
 to dumb the game down into a 3 hit 15 second fight of 1 or 2 special moves to basically win the 
 match. Not including that if you time it right you can spam THROW and win with a couple throwns 
 and one good combo.
  
  Sorry but the game is no good if each fight is over in the first 15 seconds or so. 
  
  Anyways 
 other than that i liked the game and played it a lot online but I think they could have adjusted 
 the damage to make the matches about skill and not a few throws and a lucky special move.
  
  I almost bought it before i rented it,,,, Glad i rented it first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mariomanmartian
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 17, 2009 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutley brilliant. Its street fighter 2 all over again but 5 times better.
  game control: it is very easy to fight, movement is very flexable and sensative, in a good way. 
 ultra combos can be difficult to pull off sometimes but you feel all smug when when you do pull 
 one off.
  
  graphics: it looks absolutly incredible and theres never any skipping or glitching. when you KO 
 someone with an ultra the screen goes all orange and looks brilliant.
  sound: very clear and theres loads of great new music. the characters sound great, ryu's "HADOUKEN" 
 still sounds so cool.
  
  difficulty: there are lots of different difficulty settings so whether your a street fighter veteren 
 or a newbie there's a difficulty setting to fit your style. Although online is hard if your new, 
 im not that good and ive played about 20 online games and only won 3.
  Theres a challenge mode which teaches you the tricks of the trade and a training area where you 
 can try out new moves. And although online is hard its very addictive as there are loads of unlockables.
 
  this game is a must buy for any gamer. 9.5 out of 10
  
  psn id: martian22 
::::::

::::::
UserName: InN3rChi011
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2009 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay 9/10 : The gameplay is like other street fighters like the hadoken, the uppercut, etc. 
 They added new charge attacks like when u press the medium kick and punch you do a very strong 
 attack. This attack could be used to cancel your moves to combo with other attacks like the uppercut 
 from ken, guile, etc to a super like ryu's hadoken when they are in the air. The online is same 
 as versus and stuff and the flow of the game is good. There is no lag most games i played and there 
 is a bar when you try to find someone to fight against and tells you their connection bar to yours 
 like 1/2/3/4 bars, the higher the less likely i'll lag. RARELY some of the people i played that 
 had 4 bars which is really good lags like when you press a button a second later it executes. But 
 overall its fantastic. Arcade is very bland and should have been better. While you pick a character 
 a anime like scene appears the beginning when you start and ending which is short. The ending of 
 most characters are confusing to ME like why are they there and who is that they are looking at 
 etc. You will understand when you play it. 
  
  The FLAWS in the gameplay is that the other characters such as guile, e. honda, fei long BARELY 
 has any combos such as ryu and ken the popular SF guys. Some of the characters such as sagat is 
 kinda overpowered cause his tiger uppercut can damage you a lot and his high punch cause more damage 
 than the average character. It makes other characters unbalanced and not be used a lot throughout 
 online. Online is simple and gets boring just playing 1vs1 all the time. Capcom should come up 
 with other ideas to make it more all rounded.
  
  Graphics 7/10 : The graphics aren't that good due to the release date and they could have made 
 it better due to its release date. Some of the graphics are cool like when you do the new charge 
 attack ink splashes out and its pretty cool. 
  
  Sound 8/10 : The sound is good during fighting but some of the music doesn't blend with the fight 
 or stage. The Main theme during menu screen is horrible. The music is like a boy band like backstreet 
 boy stuff. But most of the song is alright.
  
  Overall this game is a must get if you are a Street Fighter fan but not worth 60$. To others there 
 is better arcade fighting games and is also a must get but rental first if you re not sure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: munkeypoo45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 12:59 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: sf4 has a very unique type of gameplay. its a type of game that actually takes skill 
 to become good at. its not just a button mashing fighter like many other games are. each character 
 has a super and an ultra move which are great for finishing off a person. each character has their 
 own special moves and combos. there is also ex combos, where u can use the ex from ur super gauge 
 to perform stronger and more powerful special moves which will usually break the opponents shield/block. 
 there is also a focus attack where the character charges up for a strong hit and will stun the 
 enemy if it connects. 
  
  graphics: sf4 graphics are superb. its transistion from 2d to 3d is just ground breaking. it really 
 looks amazing. there may be a few occasional slow downs but overall it runs very smoothly.
  
  lasting appeal: sf4 has many unlockable items which will keep the player immersed in the game. 
 it has has a challenge mode where there are different modes that u can play with any character 
 and try to complete the challenges. the challenges are quite difficult but very fun. sf4 also has 
 a splendid online battle system. there is a player or ranked matches. in ranked matches u gain 
 battle points as u win each battle, but if u lose, then u will lose points. but if uhave 0 points 
 u cant have negative points, so thats a plus for the new gamers such as myself.
  
  overall: sf4 has a very in-depth gameplay system that takes lots of practice and timing to master. 
 the transition from 2d to 3d graphics were amazing to watch and play. with its different challenge 
 modes, unlockables, and great online system, sf4 has to be one of the best fighting games to have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FusionRain
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 14, 2009 8:19 am PT
Review:  OK if u haven't played this game yet then u r missing out but let me tell u wht ur missing out 
 on.
  
  u r missing out on a game that is well just street fighter... i know i know but it's all new and 
 so much better... eh no. this game is awesome and i like it but with unneeded characters that are 
 a shame and seth who all around do not belong in Street fighter... this can get repetitive very 
 quick
  
  ima not like other people i will tell u thats this game is good i like the focus attacks the ultras 
 and the fact that they kept the whole control change but thats about the only thing good bout this 
 game
  
  every thing els just gos down hill and these are no reasons to not buy this game there just why 
 this game is not what i wanted
  it's pretty much simple things like the voice acting... it's sooo bad i had to change damn near 
 every to jap and it still sound funny... it gets old fast and playing online is more of a bore 
 than playing killzone 2 and the menu bad...
  theres not much to say bout this game sept it gave me a reson why i loved alpha and not street 
 fighter 
  
  c'mon king of fighters!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wonzan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 6:39 pm PT
Review:  This game is Street Fighter 2 but buffed up and more technical. Playing this game with friends 
 (on/offline) is extremely fun and addicting. That is all I'm going to say about the gameplay because 
 that is really all there is to it (unless you like to play more competitively and go online to 
 fight other people) .
  
  In terms of other aspects to this game, there really are none. It has an arcade mode and a few 
 (two) crappy extra modes and a mind numbingly difficult trial mode in which you learn your characters 
 moves. A few extra modes are sorely missed and would have added a lot of value to this game.
  
  The arcade mode has some promising flourishes but in the end falls FLAT. It has terrible TERRIBLE 
 anime cutscenes (I love anime but these scenes are nasty) that are extremely short, ambiguous and 
 nonsensical. Each character has a rival who they face before fighting the last boss (who is so 
 boring) and this redeems arcade a little.
  
  During a rival fight your characters speak to each other while fighting and it seems really cool 
 actually but some of the rival pairings are plain ridiculous!! Almost everyone is rivalled with 
 Abel for some reason too __. Had capcom extended the talk during battle a little further to every 
 match in arcade and replaced the cutscenes with ingame or CG and a better story I would not be 
 in heaven. Unfortunately they dropped the ball BIG TIME here.
  
  The stages and stage music are really boring. There are no more character specific stages which 
 is a let down for me and seriously, the stage music is terrible. They should have just implemented 
 the character themes for stage music. __.
  
  Lastly, the online matchmaking is terrible. It takes eons to find a match and if you FINALLY do 
 at the character selection screen you always have the opponent wait for you to pick first so he 
 can counter pick __. There are also no penalties for disconnecting before you lose a match........ only 
 benefits __.
  
  I know it seems like I hate this game and I do, a little. But only because it could be sooooo much 
 better!! Overall, this game is something I would recommend to people who have siblings or gamer 
 friends. Others would only like it if they want to play it really competitively.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ae86ben
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 12, 2009 11:41 pm PT
Review:  This game single handedly revived the 2D fighting genre on the current gen of consoles. You couldn't 
 ask for more (actually you could, but more on that later) from Capcom; they have produced a masterpiece 
 here. 
  
  The gameplay is spot on, execution of moves has become easier than past Street Fighters and familiar 
 enough to be comfortable for players coming back from the SNES days on Street Fighter 2 Turbo and 
 Super Street Fighter 2 from 1994. 
  
  It is by far the game of the year. I haven't seen such intense competition amongst friends for 
 a long time. 
  
  Only gripes are the charging of costume packs (rip off) and lack of a proper lobby system and tournament 
 mode online. This will no doubt be released as DLC in the coming months, however it should have 
 been there from the start. 
  
  If you only buy 1 game this year, make it this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darx17
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  People seem to love this game, and for the life of me i can't figure out why. SFIV doesn't do anything 
 that wows me, except for some of the ultra combos that look rather impressive, but without an arcade 
 controller they can become an annoyance to pull off quickly. The graphics are a unique style, but 
 Prince of Persia did the cell shaded thing better and earlier. Also the taunts and character speeches 
 jut don't feel right, and what's up with anime cutscenes? But really its about the combat, and 
 compared to other fighting games, Soul Caliber 4 and Tekken 5 in particular, the combat just doesn't 
 match up. It doesn't feel smooth, it seems as if you're just living from super combo to ultra combo, 
 and everything in the middle is just a mess of swinging your control stick wildly and deciding 
 whether to do a light or medium punch in between. In SCIV u could make one massive combo string 
 that would end a fight quickly and stylishly, that doesn't happen in SFIV, it just feels... wrong. 
 The characters are all pretty interesting, Blanka's still weird and i do like Seth, but really 
 i don't see a reason to pay 60$ for this game, 30$ maybe. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: marth12345
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 10:02 am PT
Review:  
  Well I personally do not own any of the new generation systems but, I know alot of people who do. 
 This game happened to be my very first time on the PS3. Street Fighter in personal opionion is 
 a amazing game. I love the depth of the story between the fighters. I believed the hype at first 
 and was not going to play the game because of all the horrible things that were said. But I have 
 to say after playing for myself, that the way that Capcom has used the moves to reflect on the 
 story in my opionion made the game better. 
  
  One of the ups is that they managed to make everything pretty user firendly I mean, in terms of 
 command list for moves and characters are pretty short and to the point. Though at the same time 
 it did not help that there moves are really... well I cannot exactly think of the word but, if 
 you ask me overrated. I mean as far as games go and it happens in alot of games or maybe I am just 
 being far more literal or judgemental about the game then I should be. 
  
  I have been playing the street fighter series for about one year. I have managed to play and beat 
 one through three and the alphas. I have payed alot of attention through all of those games I would 
 say that each one showed alot of development between Ryu and Ken in there ever lasting journey 
 around the world for truly talented fighters. In Street Fighter IV Ryu is continuing his training 
 to master the hadouken. ** ( ( strong point) ) --- People do not take this the wrong way but if you 
 ask me it was not really a problem for ryu to have hadoukens for his specials if you are trying 
 to make a game that can prove to be realistic even if the whole idea of the game is pretty unrealistic, 
 Like for example the transitions from Ken and Ryu go as followed. Ken is more speed and usually 
 can and will have the upper hand in a fight with Ryu or anyone else for that matter. He has about 
 average for strength. But that is where Ryu comes in and I love the way that they incorbrate it 
 in the game and the way that they fight. Ryu is more defensive in his art. He will take hits to 
 give them people he figures that one punch to the head is just the same as any punch. But out side 
 of that his skill in the fighting style that they trained in is good, but it is not Ken's. Physically 
 Ryu owns in strength. So alot of his moves look slower and a little sloppy. and through most of 
 the street fighters I have played I keep seeing the progress in his training so it keeps me moviated 
 to want to seem him improve the same way that Ken does each time that he fight with Ryu. 
  
  Thank you all for those who take the time to read this it is kind of late but hey sometimes 
 I guess it is good to look outside of the box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: faToe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  The crowd is deafening and you try to focus as the countdown begins, but the fluorescent are almost 
 too much to handle.
  It's been far too long since you did this last, but there's no time to think about that. The announcer 
 pauses and the words you have been waiting to hear finally reach your ears
  "FIGHT!"
  No, this isn't a boxing match.
  This is "Street Fighter IV" (SFIV) , one of the most anticipated 
 fighting games since the genre was created. The long awaited follow up to "Street Fighter III: 
 Third Strike" is finally upon us, and yes, it was worth the wait.
  SFIV is an ode to years past, filling the roster with familiar faces from past Street Fighter games, 
 including E. Honda, Balrog and the ever-famous Guile. In truth, SFIV plays more like its relatives, 
 Street Fighter II.
  Unlike its immediate predecessor, "Street Fighter III", this game focuses more on speed and a constant 
 offense.
  If you like to hide in the corner and wait for your opponent to leave himself open, you might want 
 to skip over this iteration.
  Each character is molded after this philosophy of "constant attack," and boy, are there a lot of 
 characters to choose from.
  With 25 characters filling the roster, it is almost impossible to find a fighter that doesn't fit 
 a player's style.
  New characters-such as C. Viper and Rufus-don't disappoint either and feel as familiar as the old 
 characters they are modeled after. However, it would be a mistake to assume that Street Fighter 
 IV doesn't bring anything new to the table.
  First of all, the game has gone from a 2D fighter to a high-definition 3D masterpiece.
  Simply 
 put, the game looks gorgeous. Each fighter is modeled in great detail and all have their own personal 
 quirks. As expected, the super moves are over the top and entertaining to watch (as long as you 
 don't miss) .
  It's not just about the graphics, as beneath all the gloss are balanced fighters. There are super 
 moves that are enabled after you score enough hits, but there is also a new super gauge. The revenge 
 gauge fills as your character takes damage. When full, it gives you the option to unleash a devastating 
 move on your opponent.
  The addition of the revenge meter adds certain suspense to the game. Do you use the revenge meter 
 and make a comeback, or do you save it for the next round to immediately put yourself in an advantage?
 
  Technically you can't parry an attack, something that Street Fighter III was built upon; instead 
 it has been replaced by a technique known as focus attacks.
  The focus attack combines the art of parrying and a simple strike. As an opponent is attacking, 
 you simply push two buttons to initiate a focus attack.
  Your opponent's attack will be negated and the focus attack will break through and deal damage. 
 It sounds pretty simple, but you can also charge the attack to deal more damage and continue further 
 with a combo. Oddly enough, focus attacks are not essential to becoming an expert player, but instead 
 are there as an option.
  Don't be surprised to see people never using the move and others basing their style around it.
 
  If there is one thing that is bad about SFIV, it's the addition of animated cut-scenes. The developer, 
 Capcom, should know by now that no one plays the game for the story. Somehow though they still 
 deem it necessary to put together the most disjointed plot line in history.
  It would be forgivable if the scenes were well drawn, but that is not the case. Instead, we are 
 treated to cut-scenes that look like amateur drawings from a high school student. Thankfully SFIV 
 doesn't need a story to be entertaining.
  Capcom has created another classic fighter that will be sure to leave a great impression for generations 
 to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedarkness117
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2009 10:53 pm PT
Review:  So i got home from Blockbuster, i watched Taken and after that i snatched the disc out of my playstation 
 and poped Street Fighter IV in. As i was waiting for it to load i thought to myself why this game 
 is such a big deal. I mean i knew it was good but how good? Very GOOD!!!
  
  As soon as the intro started my jaw droped, my eyes poped and my heart stopped!!! It was EPIC!!! 
 Then i got really excited!!! And when i started playing it brung SO MUCH JOY TO ME!!! I thought 
 F@#k the wars and F@#k Global warming because nothing could ruin this fantastic moment. So.... Lets 
 talk more about it!!!
  
  Street Fighter IV is a 2D fighting game with 3D characters and environments. It has all the old 
 characters and areas aswell as new ones!!! The story is done in a anime (sorry for my spelling 
 mistakes) type way which kind of disappointed me because it looked terrible compared to this games 
 incredible engine!!! Theres not too much to the story and newcomers will pick it up quickly.
  
  The controls may frustrate newcomers and super and ultra moves can be a **** to pull off but 
 when you do it satisfies you soooo much! And if your crazy about street fighter but are sick of 
 the hard controls, you can pick up a Street Fighter IV fighting stick (in which i will review later)
 
  
  Aswell as Arcade and Versus mode there is now Online. It is satisfying to pwn friends like the 
 n00bs they are with Ultra and super combos!!! Although it is frustrating to have one player use 
 the same attack over and over. But lets not let those n00bs destroy our experience!!!
  
  Overall im giving it 9/10. A fun experience and if you haven't played it yet....... F%@K U!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Koi-Neon-X
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 2, 2009 12:59 am PT
Review:  I must be getting old. I remember the original Street Fighter game that came out way back when. 
 Then, Street Fighter II came on to the scene and arcades and life was never the same. It caught 
 the world by storm! people would line up to play, with their quarters lined up, and people (like 
 myself) just enjoyed watching it being played! of course the Super Nintendo version came out and 
 I went to great lengths to make sure I had a copy of this game (begging my parents to drive an 
 hour or so to the nearest Toys R Us to go get it the day it came out! I got the last copy that 
 day!)
  
  I could go on about the history of the Street Fighter series (and the long wait for Capcom to finally 
 add III to the game's title) and I give a special nod to the Street Fighter Alpha series as being 
 great (especially Street Fighter Alpha 3! awesome game!)
  
  The first thing I noticed about Street Fighter IV is the art. I applaud the direction they took 
 with this game. Never before has Street Fighter looked so lush and vibrant. It's almost like you're 
 fighting in a painting. The music is not all that as you have the opening theme done by Exile (I 
 could have swore it was the Backstreet Boys!) and it was so-so to be sure. You want good music 
 just play Street Fighter III: 3rd Impact and play the stage where Yin and Yang are at. Not only 
 is the stage cool but, so is the music! too bad Yuzo Koshiro was not available to make the game's 
 soundtrack! how awesome would that have been?!
  
  The character look great. Especially my two favorites Ryu and Vega. COLORFUL is the optimum word 
 here and there is plenty of it. The game just has so much pizazz and style. One thing I liked is 
 after you win a fight your character actually responds to what your opponent does, said, or history 
 between the character. The look is very interesting and I say I hope it is here to stay.
  
  Another bonus is the anime cutscenes at the beginning of a character's story and the ending. Each 
 doesn't last too long but, it is a nice touch and I'm glad it was included. Plus, you get a chance 
 in arcade mode to fight your rival and there is a little story to that as well which makes for 
 an interesting fight. It is a perfect combo!
  
  Speaking of combos the game's fighting has a variety. You can choose from Lucha Libre style with 
 El Fuerte, boxing with Balrog, mixed martial arts with Abel, or sumo with E. Honda. Plus, the game 
 has Chun-Li, Sakura, and Cammy (all very beautiful fighters) I believe there is a character for 
 everyone. I go with Ryu or Vega. My gals are Chun-Li and Sakura because they are just so cute! 
 I also enjoy using Sagat and I'll tell you why:
  
  All the info is in my blog so I'll make a long story short. Ultra Combos! they are, for me, hard 
 to pull off but, are needed to unlock a certain character in the game. Which brings me to another 
 of the game's features: The Training Room. As the name goes it is exactly that: a place to hone 
 your skills and practice pulling off these moves. Sagat's ultra combo move I found easy to execute 
 after a few practice sessions (which by the way you have an option to fill you the combo bar up 
 to a constant maximum! (ie: it never drains regardless of what move you pull off) and so this character 
 helped me unlock Gouken FINALLY!
  
  The ultra combo is satisfying when pulled off correctly. It gives the game alot of extra "oomph" 
 when winning a fight. Some are not easy to pull off (wish they had one button ultra moves!) but, 
 as they say practice makes perfect.
  
  Oh, and no barrel or car crushing bonus stages either! actually, there are NO BONUS stages at all! 
 it would have been a nice touch if they were added especially with the new art style but, alas 
 it was not to be.
  
  Street Fighter IV is a great step in the evolution in the series. It is without a doubt my favorite 
 fighting game of the new generation.
  
  One problem: I did NOT enjoy the things I had to do to unlock Gouken (see blog for more details) 
 it seems game companies have no problem lately making us jump through frustrating hoops in order 
 to get extra goodies in their $60.00 games. It is NOT needed and it is the only thing keeping me 
 from giving the game a perfect 10 which it is that in all departments EXCEPT this one.
  
  It just hurts the value is all I'm saying. Had I not been able to pull off those ultra combos I 
 would have been two characters short, short on beginning anime and ending anime scenes, and two 
 empty slots sitting there haunting me! but, thankfully I unlocked ALL the characters.
  
  You cannot go wrong though. The game is still worth the purchase without a doubt. I have always 
 loved the Street Fighter series the best and I am going to say that it is one of the best ever. 
 Despite the frustrating unlocking this game is a 10 without a doubt. Thank you Capcom for making 
 a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Marvelous0303
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 31, 2009 8:26 am PT
Review:  I really did enjoy this game a lot, BUT, being the ultimate Chun-Li fan I am, I was infuriated 
 by the level of difficulty it took to trigger her special moves along with a couple others. Where 
 as, in our Ryu and Ken dominated fan fanatic society, their special moves were a piece of cake 
 to do in a pinch between losing and winning a match. Honestly, if they used the same game pad sequence 
 to do her special moves like in SF Ex Plus Alpha, I would have been totally in love with the game.
 
  On another note, the graphics in the game were okay. Still not using our next generation consoles' 
 capabilities to the max with 1080p though; a huge let down. Maybe next time they'll take more time 
 out to make pristine graphics. I'm really just complaining though. What I loved about the game 
 is the online play. Playing vs the computer on Ultra Hard is one thing, but playing vs a human 
 is another. It's absolutely amazing to meet people and be taken back by how good others are as 
 well as being able to practice and learn from them. The games online engine was very good as well, 
 there weren't many freezes ( on my system anyway) and it always connected very smoothly. For the 
 most part, the game was good for what it was but just not all its cracked up to be. Pretty fun 
 game in reminiscence to the classic SFII game we all fell in love with in our younger gaming days. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Liferow
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 31, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  This is the best fighting game I've ever played. The last SF game I've played was on the SNES. 
 I was very young, didn't know the moves etc. I decided to pick this one up since I've been gaming 
 ever since and have a great sense of controls. The game is challenging and fun to learn. It's even 
 fun loosing. Great Learning curve, if you aren't familiar with fighting games that include combos, 
 it may take you a couple days to get the hang of it. But SF4 has a nice training session, you can 
 set up your training dummy to fight against you, crouch, defend, or jump. This way you can practice 
 your moves in every scenario and against any opponent. It has a lot of difficulty settings, find 
 the one that suits you best. The graphics are amazing. 3D / 2D with very colorful and intense animations. 
 I don't have any complaints about this game unfortunately. My review is based off of this game 
 only and not my experience with the older versions of this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FvaFshX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 9:43 pm PT
Review:  Back in the early 90's, Street Fighter II rocked the arcade world with its unique characters and 
 fast combat system. Although a simple game on the surface, many diligent (read: obsessed) gamers 
 found added layers of complexity not visible to the average quarter-wielding Joe. Despite the release 
 of the spin off Alpha series and the ultra hardcore Street Fighter III, the series has never been 
 able to top the mainstream appeal of Street Fighter II. Capcom sought to change that with the release 
 of Street Fighter IV by once again combining casual accessibility with hardcore complexity. Boy, 
 did they ever succeed.
  
  Street Fighter IV truly feels like the arcade game we all know and love with plenty of enhancements 
 to the core gameplay. If you haven't thrown Ryu's Hadouken in over 15 years, there's no need to 
 worry. Capcom has made it incredibly easy to pick up the controller and allow the muscle memory 
 to guide you to victory. However, as you progress in the single player challenges, using the old 
 techniques will prove to be less effective. Fortunately, learning Ultra Combos, Super Combos, and 
 the all new Focus Attacks is a relatively simple endeavor. mostly.
  
  Beneath each fighter is a Super and Revenge meter. The Super meter fills as you perform attacks 
 and the Revenge meter fills as you take damage. When the revenge meter passes a certain point, 
 you can perform an Ultra Combo which is a desperation move to turn the tides in a losing battle. 
 The same idea applies for a full Super Meter, allowing you to pull off a quicker, less powerful 
 super combo. For several fan favorite fighters, pulling off either of these spectacular combos 
 is as simple as performing two quarter-movement rolls and a face or shoulder button (Basically, 
 you're performing the Hadouken motion twice) and you may often find yourself performing the combos 
 completely by accident. Some charge characters such as Chun Li and Bison require a bit more finesse 
 to perform their combos, and others such as Guile and Vega (and the always frustrating Zangief) 
 will be impossible for some people to pull off consistently if at all. 
  
  The Super Meter has other functions as well. One function allows you to perform EX versions of 
 standard special moves by consuming  of the meter. An EX move is performed by pushing more than 
 one button for a fireball or uppercut, increasing the damage and allowing the move to pass through 
 Focus Attacks. Also, consuming half of the meter allows you to cancel out of attacks to chain together 
 new combos or recover from a missed or blocked attacks. Getting a good handle on the Super meter 
 is an important tool for high level play, but can mostly be ignored (especially for casual players) 
 in favor of the simple and effective Focus Attacks. By holding down 2 buttons, your fighter charges 
 up a devastating punch or kick that can penetrate blocks and gives ample time for a follow up throw 
 or combo. Additionally, you can dash out of focus attacks to psyche out your opponent and you can 
 absorb a single hit while charging up.
  
  There are 25 fighters to choose from, but only 16 are available to start with. All 12 original 
 characters from Street Fighter II are present and accounted for, along with select fan favorite 
 fighters from other installments such as Cammy, Sakura, Dan, and Fei Long. There are also 5 new 
 characters including a new final boss named Seth who you will immediately loathe for eternity. 
 Other characters include the rotund yet agile Rufus, the ultra cool gadget girl Crimson Viper, 
 the Mexican chef El Fuerte, and MMA fighter Abel. The new characters are a welcome addition for 
 the most part with El Fuerte being the main combatant who feels out of place (What's the deal with 
 the recent trend of Japanese fighters and Lucha Libre wrestlers anyway?) . 
  
  Each character gets a simple story to go through in the standard arcade mode, book ended by some 
 sub par anime scenes. It's a noble attempt to provide more than the usual ladder of opponents, 
 but since the scenes lack context, you'll probably end up ignoring them anyway. After taking each 
 fighter through his or her story, there's still plenty of single player challenges to tackle. Survival 
 Mode has your fighter taking on a set number of opponents with minimal healing in between rounds, 
 Time Attack involves a series of fights that must be completed before a timer runs out, and Trial 
 mode gives you designated attacks and combos to perform that get progressively difficult. The longevity 
 of the single player is staggering since there is also an additional collection element to completing 
 set tasks. Finishing challenges rewards you with titles and icons to assign to your personal profile, 
 which you can then show off online to take up even more of your time.
  
  The core online fighting of Street Fighter IV is magnificent. You can quickly join a match, search 
 using custom criteria, or create your own lobby to take on opponents in surprisingly lag free matches. 
 Creating your own lobby is the fastest way to find an opponent, but the matchmaking in that situation 
 can be a little random. Ranked matches pair you up with other fighters with relative Battle Points. 
 The more battle points you acquire, the more you lose if you're taken down by some new dynamo. 
 Fortunately, Player matches allow you to win and lose to your heart's desire without consequence 
 and is much more akin to the arcade days of old.
  
  The graphical style of Street Fighter IV plays a large part in the sleek presentation. Even though 
 the fighting still takes place on a 2D plane, Characters are rendered in 3D and feature exaggerated 
 facial expressions (which are a riot if you're a second away from getting destroyed by an Ultra 
 Combo) . Backgrounds are vibrant and lively and there's a cool ink outline around your character 
 whenever you land a Focus Attack. The sound design complements the over the top battles with boisterous 
 whistles accompanying Flashy finishes and a play-by-play announcer occasionally shouting with excitement. 
 Voice work is also solid in English and Japanese, but the anime scenes suffer in both cases from 
 poor lip sync and awkward timing. 
  
  If you're a fan of fighting games, purchasing Street Fighter IV is a no brainer. Newcomers also 
 shouldn't be afraid to give this incredible game a chance, but it should be noted there is a bit 
 of a learning curve. Its very easy to pick up the game and enjoy yourself with another new player, 
 but taking on someone who knows every move for every character inside out can be a frustrating 
 endeavor. Overall, with online play and tons of single player options, Street Fighter IV will keep 
 you busy for months and months and truly deserves a place as one of the greatest fighting games 
 of all time. 
  
  Cain 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BLuFAlc0n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 2:06 pm PT
Review:  Well, how can we start this, Street Fighter 4 = Good Game!
  Street Fighter started as an Arcade Game-Only, you can only use Ryu (or Ken in 2P Mode) . Then Capcom 
 made Street Fighter II (For SNES and Megadrive) , Then a bunch of remakes (Championship, Turbo, 
 Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo, then X, then Hyper, then HD Remix) . Street Fighter 3, was then Made, 
 with mixed up gameplay (still prefered 2) . Untill the missing link between the two games (Street 
 Fighter 4) has been released. Well I've got the Collector's Edition.
  It contains:
  *The game, in a Different cover than normal (It has Ryu, with the faces of the 4 Original Boss 
 and 4 New Characters fading)
  *A Blu-Ray video of Street Fighter 4 (in HD)
  *A little booklet of the 4 New Characters (with the Alt. Costume codes behind)
  *A Ryu and C. 
 Viper Figurines (Which couldn't be removed because of a metal seal)
  
  Graphics runs very well in the game, I like the effects and everything, the ink, opening, everything 
 was nice except when at cutscenes, the in-game graphics went less detailed, then at the FIGHT! 
 the graphics looks better! Opening effects, and anime-cutscenes are great! If you're confused about 
 the anime cut-scenes, you have to watch Street Fighter 4 :The Ties that Bind, to understand the 
 cut-scenes. Ryu's face also looks weird in game, and the Shinkuu Hadouken was dissapointing, it's 
 just look like a Normal Hadouken, in Tatsunoko vs capcom, it looked better by far! Sometimes, it 
 felt basic, but most of the time, it looks nice.
  
  Gameplay, is still the same great gameplay, with added features like the awesome Ultra Finish, 
 and the focus attack. I bought a Super Famicom to play Street Fighter 2, it's awesome. 
  Then playing Street Fighter 4, everything is still the same, the Hadouken, Shoryuken, Tatsumaki 
 Senpukyaku, it was easier to do compared to the SNES one. Then in Street Fighter 4, moves are still 
 performed the same, but way easier. Some moves has been a lot easier to perform compared to Street 
 Fighter 2. However, it felt less chalenging that way. All the characters from the original Street 
 Fighter 2, are back! The 4 Devas as well, plus Cammy and Fei Long, and of course, Akuma/Gouki! 
 There are added characters not included in Street Fighter 2, they are Sakura, Dan, Rose and Gen. 
 Also, two new powerful and annoying characters when you face them, these two are: Gouken and Seth.
 
  Gouken is overpowerful, but for some reason, his life gague didn't felt smaller than Akuma and 
 Seth. Even the Shin Shoryuken looks stronger that the Shin Shun Goku Satsu.
  
  Well most of the moves are easier to do, like the Shun Goku Satsu for example, making the game 
 easier to play, but some characters felt weaker than they suppose to be. When Capcom said about 
 "rebalancing gameplay", they have failed on some. Let's use Ken for example, they made him the 
 "noob" character, that is easily get hit. Also, you go at Arcade mode, you face Seth, and all he 
 does is Teleport, Teleport, Teleport, Grab 360-Spin in mid-air, teleport, that kick that attacks 
 like the Shun Goku Satsu.
  It really is annoying. Zangief also do this as well..
  
  Combos are quite hard to pull off sometimes due to me using the PS3 controller, not the Stick, 
 but have used the stick before which felt easier to play on (I'm definitely buying a Fighting Stick) . 
 This game is definitely a button-mashing game, well for some of them. The gameplay is definitely 
 better than Tekken 6 and Soul Calibur 4. Online is quite great, you get your own ID, and Pic Online. 
 It's also quite complexed but at least not as annoying as Tekken (with multiple combo listing) , 
 SSBB is till my fav. but this game is pure awesome still on gameplay.
  
  Sounds, is IMMENSE! I wouldn't say it beats SSBB and MGS4, but probably one of the best sound games 
 ever. Ken's theme especially is just really sound awesome. The Opening Song:
  EXILE - The Next Door (Indestructible) , is SUPER AWESOME!
  even better, the Guitar Solo half-way 
 the Opening!! Extremely awesome. The characters, can be changed to their language between Japanese 
 and English with each character.
  What's even better, is that you can put your own songs while playing the game (for me, the first 
 game in PS3 that featured this feature)
  
  Presentation = Perfect, again just hilighting it to Street Fighter 4 already looks awesome (In 
 XMB) , Opening is awesome, the art, shade looks great, Selection screen was quite basic, Character 
 Select is great. The only disappointment is that when you set your PS3 in JP, the game doesn't 
 turn in JP fully like SCIV could.
  
  Value, man lots to do, you have trophies, unlocking characters, color, Time Attack, Training, combos, 
 you could stay on this game for a very long time, longer than SCIV.
  
  Overall the game is nearly perfect, but there were some few problems in it, and some missing features, 
 It could have been better with Create-A-Character with a selection of Nationality.
  And fixing the annoying AI's
  But the bottom line is, It's an awesome game so buy it!
  
  
 Goods/ +
  Good characters are here
  Some New good addition in the game
  Gameplay is Great, just like a typicall fighting game but better.
  Great Graphics
  Awesome 
 Sounds
  Intro = Best intro game of '09 so far
  Online features are great
  Trophies are included
  Costumes in PS Home, awesome
  Lots to do
  Eng/Jap voice acting can 
 be changed in every single character!
  Moves are coo
  Can play your own music while playing
  Music tune is really great, very catchy on some of them.
 
  Volcano background ROCKS!
  Most of the characters really looks good
  
  Bad/ -
  Buying Alt. Costumes = RIP OFF!
  Ryu's Shinkuu/ Metsu Hadouken isn't as good as in TvC.
  Seth 
 is ANNOYING! So as Zangief and Abel!!
  Some of the character's faces looks weird.
  
  Gameplay/Innovation - 9/10
  Graphics - 9/10
  Sound - 10/10
  Value - 9.5/10
  Presentation 
 - 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD
  
  - Cool Special Moves
  - Great selection of fighters
  - Ranked online
  - Challenging
  - Quick online
  - Awesome art!
  
  THE BAD
  
  - Fighters always make 
 the noises
  - Graphics aren't that great
  - The poor controls ruin the whole game
  - Repetitive talking can really get annoying (more is expected these days)
  
  FINAL VERDICT
 
  
  Overall I was really disappointed when I first played this game. I expected a game which was similar 
 to the arcade Street Fighter, but new and improved in so many ways! However, this isn't what Street 
 Fighter IV offers. The controls are very similar to the old arcade Street Fighters (for example: 
 you have to move the analog stick an all different directions and press button combos at the same 
 time to do special moves) . It's really unacceptable, considering the PS3 controller has over 15 
 buttons (unlike the old arcade games which had 5 at most) . Why wouldn't they take advantage of 
 all the buttons to make the game easier to play and more fun? Instead, the left analog stick is 
 involved in every move! It's just stupid when there are so many buttons! Is a light kick, medium 
 kick, and heavy kick really necessary!? NO! The controls just ruin this game. Everything is even 
 laid out the same way as the old arcade games. The fighting is the same and everything. With the 
 power of the 360 and PS3 you'd think they would add a twist to make it even better... but no. Same 
 ol' same ol'. Major disappointment. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: z4twenny
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  Well they say if you've played one street fighter you've played'em all. BUT if you've played all 
 of them then you know that's not true. Capcoms new iteration for the current gen goes out of its 
 way to innovate for the times and still manage to stay old school for the people who fell in love 
 with the original series. As with my other reviews i'll be listing pros and cons. These are coming 
 from a long time vet who was throwing away dollars at a time on the original SF2 when i was just 
 a kid...
  
  Round 1 - Graphics & sound..... FIGHT!
  
  Pros - the graphics are absolutely gorgeous, just beautiful. Everything has a watercolor and ink 
 look to it which i think suits this title excellently. I might as well add the sound is pretty 
 much perfect, the music is great for the game and the grunts, smacks, voices and sound effects 
 fit right into place. 
  
  Cons - owning the ps3 version i can say that on a flat screen HDTV (i have a 32" 720p bravia) it 
 does become a bit pixelated so it's missing some AA which could have made it look better, aside 
 from that the only other complaint i have is the art direction with the characters. I don't like 
 what they did with all the characters, mainly with Ryu and Ken, they both look like they spent 
 the last 5 years taking steroids and working out too much. they look way too buff imo, but thats 
 more of a personal art complaint than anything else. aside from that i think the game looks gorgeous. 
 
  
  my only complaints about the sound is this, some very repetitive statements when losing. hearing 
 them over and over is a bit annoying and grating. Lastly, the intro pop song from what, justin 
 timberlake? catchy i guess but doesn't fit the game at all in my opinion. i know japanese folks 
 like their pop music but i think a different track could have been selected for NA/EU release. 
 maybe even a remix of the original track with guitars and somebody else singing. 
  
  Round 2 - Gameplay..... FIGHT!!
  
  Pros: It sticks mostly with the old school tried and true 
 formula. If you played the old SF2 - SSF2T - SFA series you shouldn't have any problems linking 
 together some basic combos and getting back into the swing of things. The counter/armor system 
 is definitely an interesting add to the fighting and adds strategy to the gameplay without detracting 
 much. 
  
  Cons: here's where i have problems. the ps3 controller is pretty comfortable but it seems like 
 the input timing is very very strict on the d-pad, i have more luck pulling off combos and special 
 moves on the analog stick which isn't preferable to me. i really do like the d-pad better but this 
 is a case where i can't use it to my benefit. i remember SFA3 for ps1 had a variable input speed 
 and that always fit me better. also the combo system frames are too strict i think as well. it 
 seems like a 2 into 1, heavy kick into hurricane kick should be easier than what it is for this. 
 i don't have any issues with it on other iterations of SF. This makes a lot of the "challenge" 
 series combos FAR too difficult to pull off even for seasoned vets on the hard difficulty. Although 
 the normal difficulty combo/special move challenges were pretty easy for the most part to get through. 
 
  
  Final Round - Overal Value - ....... FIGHT!!! 
  
  Pros: If you're a fan of the street fighter series and can overlook the little imperfections here 
 and there then you'll definitely find a game you can lose yourself in for FAR too long. A lot of 
 characters, each with a little anime story to go with it in with a good solid fighting system thats 
 pretty open ended and good hit detection. 
  
  Cons: Again i go back to the controls, maybe a fighting stick helps but i'm a firm believer that 
 you shouldn't need one to get a good experience from a game. the input feels a little too specific 
 to get some things down. this is something a bit of practice can alleviate, don't expect to knock 
 down all the combo/time trial challenges for a while if nothing else because the insane combos 
 that need to be pulled off to get through them challenges. these will take a long time to get down 
 even once. it feels like the focus/armor/counter attack system is a bit unbalanced as in a high 
 speed game stopping to do a focus attack for half a second can either really reward you or really 
 hose you which is where one part strategy and one part luck come into play. On the more normal/hard 
 difficulty settings the computer can be downright brutal (not for beginners) 
  
  
  So all in all, if you can deal with a little control issue (or perhaps you're just better than 
 me!) and are willing to either look at the game as an updated SSF2T (which i do) or a completely 
 new take as a newer deeper game with the focus/counter/armor system and don't mind spending a lot 
 of time getting good with it then you should have a blast. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Herabec
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 27, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start off my review by saying this is my first time reviewing a game on Gamespot, 
 so be honored! Also note that this is my personal opinion.
  
  Street Fighter IV for me had a lot of potential to be a good game, as I loved Street Fighter II 
 and even managed to tolerate some of their attempts at a 3d fighter. The game actually looks fairly 
 decent, though it is far from a graphical typhoon nor does it capitalize on the system's technical 
 capabilities.
  
  Graphics 8/10 - The graphics are pretty good for a fighter. I like it's mix of cell shaded graphics 
 and 3d, and it really gives itself the illusion of being a 3d fighter while remaining 2d. The backgrounds, 
 to me, were far more interesting than the character models. (Knocking my opponent down, just to 
 see a drunk in the background stumble to his feet for instance) . However, once the camera zooms 
 into the characters to add drama to their attacks, you start to see the flaws.
  
  Ugly close-up character models, bad (though at times comical) facial expressions and a few graphical 
 bugs.
  
  Gameplay 4/10 single player, 9/10 two player.
  
  Gameplay is the most important aspect of a fighter, and like all fighters it must be divided into 
 two aspects, an offline and a two player. I don't have internet for my PS3, so I won't be reviewing 
 online, but with an actual person in my living room.  _ 
  
  Offline - Simply tedious and frustratingly difficult. I'm a vet at fighting games. From Virtua 
 Fighter to Tekken, Deadly Arts to Street Fighter II, I've played my fair share. I thought I was 
 pretty good, but this game was simply frustrating.
  
  Even on the easier settings, enemies are deadly to the point where I became very lovey-dovy with 
 the block and conservative fighting style. Even so I found this lack-luster. Enemies are able to 
 pull of special attacks with amazing accuracy and speed, and boy do they use special attacks! If 
 the opponent has a grappling special, don't bother with close range as the computer's favorite 
 tactic is to spam grapples. After being beaten by Seth for the 15th time on Very Easy mode due 
 to Teleport, Throw, Teleport, Throw spam, I gave up on single player.
  
  2 Player - Now this is where the fun begins! Fighting games have always been about social interaction, 
 and this brings me back to the days of arcade gaming. This is one of the best fighters for taking 
 on a friend. Fighters are balanced well with eachother and even previously useless characters like 
 Dan can now be used with surprising results against fighters like Ken or Akuma.
  
  The fighting is fun and fast paced when it comes to facing a living opponent, mostly because you 
 don't need to deal with the baddly-programmed AI dealing special attack after special attack at 
 you, and instead with the unpredictability of a human. Oh, and the gloating after a victory is 
 fun too.
  
  Controls 6/10 - The controls should feel somewhat natural to almost anyone who's played a fighting 
 game, though to newcomers the amount of punches and kicks might be somewhat intimidating with the 
 involvement of the triggers.
  
  The biggest letdown with the controls however, was their presentation in the control list. What 
 the hell? How many people -actually- own an arcade controller for the sole purpose of playing Street 
 Fighter? All controls are presented in arcade format and makes deciphering any complex specials 
 (Vega and Chun-Li come to mind) difficult at best.
  
  Sound 7/10 - This sounds like Street Fighter. Shouryuken! Hadoken! All the good old sound effects 
 we like are there, and the punches and kicks sound great. You think, aw yeah! At first, and then 
 the fighters open their mouths. Oh god the voice acting is bad for some of them! Dan is the worst, 
 but that's intentional I think. But even Ryu and Ken sound like DBZ rip-off wimps. 
  
  And the music! Who'd they get for the intro song that plays through the menu? Backstreet Boys? 
 *shudder*
  
  Fun Factor - 2/10 offline, 10/10 2-player.
  
  'nuff said.
  
  In the end, I give this a 7.5/10. It's only saving grace to me is the multiplayer, and even then 
 I'd think only if you had a real person sitting next to you. I can't imagine online feeling the 
 same.
  
  In any event, take my review with a grain of salt, as not everyone will agree with me.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: moukun
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  Story: 4/10
  I honestly didn't get the story until I watched the movie that came along with the collectors edition 
 or something. Even after watching it, I only understood a part of the story.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  The game was similar to street fighter 2 which was a good thing in my opinion, 
 but I was hoping for some more moves. The game seems a bit slower than some other SF's I've played. 
 The ultra combo was a bad idea because opponents use it right before you finish them off. I rarely 
 ever use super combos because EX is much more useful and quicker to do, I don't even know why they 
 added a super combo.
  
  Online: 6/10
  You're able to play ranked and unranked matches, but it's hard to find a match around your level. 
 Even if you do find a game, some games would lag a bit which will ruin your gameplay. Also whenever 
 you're winning, the opponent disconnects their game so you don't earn any battle points.
  
  This is a great game but I got tired of it after a week of playing. I still enjoy CvS2 much more 
 than this because there were so many more options and characters to play with. I just wish capcom 
 and snk would get together and make a CvS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmdude
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 26, 2009 5:04 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter 4, best fighting game i've played. This coming from someone new to the series. My 
 first game for my PS3. It is plain awesome. Great gameplay, awesome cel-shaded style graphics the 
 only problem i've had is difficulty. Or maybe because i'm new to it and not very experienced yet. 
 Super Combos and Ultra combos are fun to watch especially you perform it in a flashy combo finish. 
 
  
  It has a great artistic design, the cel-shaded graphics is a thumbs up. From the character design 
 to the level all looks great and makes me wow. Online is good, though there is a problem with being 
 laggy because of the internet connection of one player that makes it bad. IMO, it's better than 
 tekken in terms of the graphics (artistic) and the gameplay, let's just wait for tekken 6 if it 
 can outdo this game. This game is a must-buy for those that play fighting games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarrisDo
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:17 am PT
Review:  The emotions for Street Fighter IV are divided in two categories. If you are midle aged and have 
 played SF then you remember the old good times and the company you had with it. But you are anxious 
 about its improvement. Is it better now or there isn't any fun left. However if you haven't played 
 any SF game you feel nervous. You don't know anything about this game but you hear good things 
 about it. When you play it in both situations you feel great enthusiasm about the value of the 
 game.
  
  Fortunately the producing company has changed the drawbacks that the previous game had. They adjust 
 the game like SF2. It has exactky the same combos and offers the same wonderful feeling. Besides 
 some moves that could never be performed didn't come back. Super attacks are still here and not 
 so difficult to be performed. They aren't going to take you more than five minutes to learn. The 
 high damagind Ultra moves are performed also in the same way. If during a powerful you press another 
 button or a combination of buttons the the atack will be faster or more damaging. So you can select 
 a variety of moves to perform. It is a game like chess. The atacks are simple but they can be combined 
 to produce a huge amount. Sf iv is a game that respect the fatique of the player.
  
  Let's go to the character selection. Capcom has kept the originall roster (12 characters) and added 
 some more. Everyone is perfectly designed. In additions animations are wonderful and have a next-gen 
 appearance. The flash kicks for example leave a light trace behind them. The new characters add 
 style to gameplay. Everyone has his own movements and features. 
  
  Street Fighter IV maintain the first game's enthusiasm but added some PS3 backgrounds like bars 
 or streets with children that yell or play. In SFIV you can change the longuage of every character 
 in his mother tongue. All in all everything is good from the sound to the characters animation 
 before the battle.
  
  Why doesn't this game takes a 10 rating? There is a dissadvatage. The controls. You should apply 
 the moves in the d-pads and the L and R buttons. that needs a lot of train to learn and at first 
 you will find difficulties getting well with it.
  
  To sum up it is game that everyone has the right to play. A PS3 masterpiece!!
  
  Graphics:9
 
  Gameplay:9
  Sound:9
  Controls:9
  Lasting appeal:10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 25, 2009 9:10 am PT
Review:  SF4 was one of the games i had been looking forward to for ages and when i finally got it it was 
 nowhere near as good as i expected.
  
  Arcade- boring is what it is with a lack of in depth story and being able to complete a character 
 in about 10 mins is not good gameplay. Characters though look amazing modeled in 3d but shown in 
 2d makes for a great looking fighting experiance. In sf2 wich was probabley the best street fighter 
 kept me hooked on hours on end but this sence of a great fighter has been lost and i hope if they 
 make another hey will increadably improve on it.
  
  Online- my connection is pretty good and i still found tones of online lag witch ruined the exoeriance. 
 And not much in the way of ranking up to unlock items witch made for a booring experience.
  
  Moves- i found the moves hard to handle this time round with ultra combos to try and master 
 i spent most of my time trying to learn them but i never did.
  
  I highly recommend renting before haned because your eather going to love it or hate it in my opinion 
 it was a huge let down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 12291979
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 12:01 pm PT
Review:  I bought Street Fighter IV the week it was released and after playing it for about 10 minutes, 
 I started to regret my $75 purchase. But now that I've played it some more, I gotta say it's one 
 of my favorite games in my collection. The graphics are amazing and the animation is super smooth. 
 It's not a perfect game and it has it's share of flaws, as I'm about to point out.
  
  THE GOOD:
  
  * Great graphics
  * Smooth animation
  * Classic 2-D SF gameplay
  * Good 
 selection of characters
  * 4 new characters
  * Total of 9 unlockable characters
  * Online gameplay
  * Unlockables
  * Trophies
  
  THE BAD:
  
  * Poor storyline (like 
 it matters in a fighting game)
  * Controls not always responsive
  * Difficulty level extremely high
  
  So, as you can see, the good does outweigh the bad and 
 though at first sight, this game may not seem to be worth it's retail price, you find out soon 
 enough that it is. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Psi-tan
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 23, 2009 3:47 am PT
Review:  As much as I have enjoyed the SF Alpha series, with all of it's countless special and super moves, 
 mass of characters, extra modes and last but not least: speed, I am faced with a game that is inferior 
 in all these points and has nothing to offer other than a new special move Guage, a focus attack 
 and 3D graphics.
  
  Many may not agree with the 7.5 score I have given the game, but I will allow myself to judge these 
 very people and say that they had never played the Tekken series before.
  
  If I was to compare the PS2 version of Tekken 5 with SF4, this would end up being a review for 
 Tekken, and so I won't go there.
  
  Games that have gained a full score are extremely few for the PS3 being as powerful as it is, naturaly 
 It's standards must also be equaly high.
  
  Comparing a full score game like Metal Gear 4 and SF4, regardless of the difference in genre, the 
 comparison will contrast the difference in quality.
  
  Lets rate SF4 on its own: (based on PS3 standards)
  
  Graphics: Nice at best, Naruto has already 
 beaten them to the Cell-shade cartoonish style technology on the PS2. The PS3 can do much better 
 than that.
  
  Sound: Great! Very rich and vivid, though the character voices and their lines and too geeky. More 
 like a Power Rangers style rather than a hardcore fighting game.
  
  Playability and control: Slow, slow, slow! this is a fighting game, again these kind of games require 
 a player to master speed, quick response and judgement in order to win, in SF4 all you mostly need 
 to know are the special moves, and occationally use the Focus attack (which is a free-for-all counter 
 attack) . Not much depth or skill required to counter an attack with a press of a button.
  
  Replay Value: Unlock all the characters, play a few days with your friends using those new unlocked 
 characters! And then....? No special modes, no 1 on 2, no 2 on 2, no challenges! The PSP could 
 handle all this, why can't PS3?
  
  Fun Factor: (A rating ignored by most game testers)
  The more you get into it the more the controls grow on you, and you get better and better, this 
 is where fighting game fans (I mean true fans, not one-timers) evolve and find new ways to improve 
 on a new level. In SF4 this does not happen. Once you get better, the game stays the same, and 
 the slow response time and lack of depth will soon surface and you discover that your performance 
 is limited by them.
  
  There's only so much improvment you can reach untill you reach a dead end.
  
  Nowhere near 
 Soul Caliber, Tekken and other big titles, they didn't earn their rating by having good graphics 
 and outstanding sound, but rather by the depth, intensity and seriousness that every true fighting 
 game fan looks for in a fighting game.
  
  If this silly game got a 9.0, what's Tekken 6 gonna get? A 20.0?
  Think about that!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nachoking2k2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2009 12:15 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter introduced the fighting game genre to the world in the early 90s. Street Fighter 
 and Capcom then came to perfect with great artist renditions and moves, adding little things here 
 and there to each game that came out. With Street Fighter 4, they did little wrong. The graphics 
 are a work of art. They are done in a vastly alternative way and it works out amazingly. Tried 
 to go back and play Tekken 5, COULDN'T. This is the best fighting game of all time, hands down. 
 It's not hectic and frantic. There's enough variety of characters and unlockables to keep you going. 
 The gripe I have is all the new characters are cheap and Seth might be the cheapest boss of all 
 time. The Ultra Combos are the best thing ever to happen to fighting games. I remember when the 
 Super first premiered I was like big whoop. But when the Ultra Hits, and you got Akuma, and those 
 swords collide, there's nothing like it. Online is hit or miss, depending on connection. I like 
 how you can accept invites in arcade mode, kinda reminds me of the old days. The game play is old 
 school, no super jumps or insane crazy things. It's classic Street Fighter. The alternate costumes 
 are a great addition for purchase. When it comes down to it, use your roots, maybe Mortal Kombat 
 can learn from that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: An0nymousX
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 19, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  I LOVE street fighter 4.. its def. the hottest fighting game i own right now ( its also the only 
 one i own lol) but to me street fighter 4 outshined its past games. I personally enjoy playing 
 with Cammy her moves are the bomb i cant wait to see what the next game will bring to the table 
 because i think the newly added super combo finishers and what not are a very good addition to 
 the series it gives it alot of flavor that the other games didnt have. Online playing is not as 
 good in my opinion everytime i try to find an online opponent it seems like everybody has a horrible 
 connection. I wish it was like the Mk vs DC online play but unfortunately it isnt. But thats the 
 only flaw i can see in this street fighter 4 game. I wouldnt suggest this game to EVERYBODY but 
 i would def. suggest this to the hardcore and softcore street fighter gamers its going to be a 
 classic in the upcoming years.
  
  Rating : 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Another_Brick
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2009 2:07 pm PT
Review:  Graphics (9.2) : Street Fighter IV has amazing 3D graphics based on a 2D platform. The game comes 
 across as high-art, with thick black outlines, ink blotches and bright colours. Though SFIV is 
 no MGS4 the game still has its technical merits as an outstanding looking "2D" fighter. One issue 
 I had was the size of the fighters, everyone looks like they are on HCG and it took me some getting 
 used to. Backgrounds are the most impressive of any fighter I have played.
  
  Story (8.5) : It's hard to say SFIV has a story (outside of the anime cut-scenes during tournament 
 mode) but I can definitely say the game offers much more than just a few play throughs. SFIV has 
 a ton of play modes and a challenge mode for the completionist. Online play is a great addition 
 to a series like SF and works well. SF, like any fighter is also great to play with friends.
  
  Sound (10) : Sound is SFIV standout performer. Everything sounds great. I love the soundtrack 
 and I love the voiceover (particularly the original Japanese audio track) .
  
  Game-play (9.5) : Controls are hard to learn and the game is short, but there is lots of replay 
 potential and the game itself plays really well. I have never been a SF fan but was drawn in by 
 the amazing look and style of the game. It's a lot of fun and I've played the hell out of it since 
 I bought it.
  
  Overall (9.3/10) : SFIV is the best fighting game out for any console. Its also probably the best 
 looking, with a few (personal) issues, its also no MGSIV or GTA even. The game itself is short, 
 but as I mention its got tons of replay value. It's a great game if you just want to turn your 
 brain off, its fun, its also got a bunch of stuff to do outside of just kicking ass.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dysonlu
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2009 1:38 pm PT
Review:  SF4 is a good game and it's a must-have for the fans of the genre. However, it is worth the price 
 of admission (60$) only if you are a die-hard fan; for the rest of us, just rent it or buy it only 
 when it's on rebate.
  
  The reason is that the game is essentially a "been-there-done-that" game. While the 3D graphics 
 constitute a major leap for the franchise, there is nothing pushing the envelop, so to speak. The 
 3D models themselves could have been more polished -- close-up of the faces reveals how lacking 
 the models are. The soundtrack, sound effects, announcer are nothing to write home about. There 
 are minor flaws too such as collision anomalies (look at Sagat's arms during the end credits) . 
 I won't even mention in length the anime cut-scenes so horrible and cheap they were in terms of 
 quality. As far the cast of characters, all the "old timers" are there, which is great. On the 
 other hand, there are some forgettable additions such as El Fuerte and Rufus (are you serious?) . 
 It would have been nice and fitting if there was one or two appealing new characters. After all, 
 isn't SF4 supposed to be a significant new edition of the series? 
  
  I don't know how long Capcom spent developing this game but the production quality is simply so-so. 
 There are other fighting games out there with better graphics, better music, better sound effets, 
 better training mode and higher gameplay depth (Soul Calibur comes to mind) . Maybe it was hard 
 to model all the characters in 3D from the ground up and to build the online engine and those took 
 most of the development time. I give them the benefit of the doubt. But to me, paying 60$ (65$ 
 in Canada) for this game is not a good value compared to other games out there (unless of course, 
 you are a die-hard fan) . I don't think Capcom spent as much money making this game as Konami did 
 making MGS4 or Rockstar did making GTA4.
  
  That been said, I'd buy this game when it becomes cheaper because I've always loved playing SF 
 and my friends know SF, everyone knows SF. It's a good competitive game. I'll also rate it a 8 
 because of the online feature; without it, I'd rate it a 7.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumassed2k
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 7:44 pm PT
Review:  Street fighter 4 is finally here!
  
  After waiting so long and reading and watching every possible piece to do with the game, we finally 
 now get to play it and pass judgement. 
  
  As the back of the case says, the No.1 fighter is back, yes and back with avengence. Street fighter 
 lives up to its predessecors and goes for broke with trying to out do them at the same time.
  
  Straight away as you put the game in you feel immersed with a long intro cutscene with brilliant 
 fighting scenes in a fast paced Japanese style animation that looks great. 
  
  As you then come to the menu screen you can then select from a variety of modes to play:
  
 
  Arcade mode (General main story line.)
  Versus mode (Face of with another player or CPU.)
  Challenge mode (Time trial and survival modes.)
  Network battle mode (Online mode.)
  
  Arcade 
 mode:
  Arcade mode is the main part of the game, with you pitting your wits against other characters in 
 a fight to reach Seth. In arcade mode you will face 8 other opponents in different rounds and locations 
 around the globe. With 16 characters from the start and another 9 characters to been unlocked SF4 
 has a variety of different fighters with all the originals and brand new characters to play with. 
 Arcade mode starts of with an anime style intro video, depending on which characters storyline 
 you are following. The anime tells the story of how the character is involved with this a fighting 
 tournament and their goals and reasons for entering although the cutscenes do not go into great 
 depth and are quite hard to follow. Although interesting and a nice idea, the anime falls short 
 of being great with the videos being very, very short and quality of the anime being below par 
 compared to other animes. 
  
  There is at least six different difficulties with arcade mode ranging from seriously easy to extreme 
 hard. In classic street fighter fashion even on normal or below easy street fighter is tough, with 
 clever AI opponents, that will outwit your every move. If new to street fighter, you will have 
 a tough time getitng to grips with controls and basic styles of play, but fans of the series will 
 feel right at home. As you go through arcade mode all characters eventually face a rival which 
 ties into the storyline, some of these characters and rival fights lead to characters being unlocked 
 after finished arcade mode. 
  
  New boss Seth, depending on the difficulty is a handful and a bit of a pain. Depeding on how many 
 rounds you set arcade for Seth has a finally form where he doubles in attack and defence and also 
 gains new powers and moves. He is though a nice addition to the game, unlocking him to play with 
 though is a tough job and you will spend plenty of time trying. After defeating Seth, there is 
 another anime end cutscene that is again very short and does not help with trying to understand 
 the storyline.
  
  The story of SF4 is hard to grip and all of the anime cutscenes aren't really helpful at all. Unless 
 you read the booklet you won't really know what is going on.
  
  Versus mode:
  Versus mode is your standard two player element where two player can go against each other to duke 
 it out. You can also face the CPU and practise with all the different difficulties. Plus you can 
 also watch the CPUs fight themselves in CPU Vs CPU, here people new to SF can watch and learn.
 
  
  Challenge mode:
  Challenge mode consists of two different modes of play, with different difficulties. First of all 
 there is the time attack mode, in which you have to defeat a series of opponents with out being 
 KO in a certain time limit. As you progress there will be more opponents to be beat in shorter 
 time spans, also there is three difficulty settings in which you can set the opponents.
  
  The next mode is the survival mode in this mode, you are set into one round matches and you have 
 to defeat as many CPUS as you can, you get graded on your performances and how many CPUS you beat.
 
  
  Network battle:
  With nearly all new fighting games, Street fighter 4 has online capabilties so you are able to 
 fight against other people. In network battles, you can choose between a ranked match and a player 
 match. Ranked matches are matches against other people for points, you can set different options 
 such as rounds and skill levels to suit your level of skill. Depending on your win or loss you 
 gain points and lose points, so practise is usualy advised there is some pretty tough players out 
 there. There is also a ranking table and leaderboard.
  
  Player matches are matches that are not ranked and are usual just for people looking to play against 
 another person, or to practise. This mode is more fun and less competative, you again can change 
 rounds, time limits and skill levels to suit you. As you play and win, you gain titles and icons 
 on which you can edit your profile.
  
  There is also a training mode in which you can fight a still opponent and practise combos and specials 
 with all the different characters.
  
  Street fighter 4 visually looks amazing with a fantastic almost comic art style. It fits right 
 in with the games of today and is really easy on the eyes. Ultra combos and finishes look supurb. 
 
  
  The only bad really of street fighter 4 is the storytelling, but really at the end of the day you 
 won't care what is happening in the story you will just be looking forward to hadokening! the next 
 opponent. 
  
  Street Fighter 4 is a fantastic examples of games living up to reputations it is simple plain fun 
 for everyone, it fails to dissapoint in all aspects. It is well recommended and just like Street 
 fighter 2 i am sure people will still be playing it in 10 years time i certainly will!
  
  Dumassed2k 
::::::

::::::
UserName: illgt4
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 9:54 pm PT
Review:  3D visuals, solid controls. This lives up to the "hype" and delivers a top fighting game for the 
 home market.
  
  I've been an avid SF fan and player for 20 years. I've followed every step of the franchise and 
 report that this part in the series, takes it a step forward with next gen graphics, sound and 
 tight controls.
  
  The World Warriors are back in this installment of the great SF series. Ryu, Ken, Chun Li, Dhalsim, 
 Zangief, Vega, E. Honda.. they are all here! Plus new characters that fit right in. If you thought 
 Bison and Sagat were tough. Wait til you get a piece of Seth! 
  
  Beautiful visuals make this one a sure fire hit for many months to come! This one does NOT disappoint! 
 Individual story lines like the original, tough computer AI and online play! What more do you want 
 in a SF remake for today's market?
  
  
  
  Great job, Capcom!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: segg123
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 1:16 am PT
Review:  While Street Fighter IV features models and backgrounds rendered in 3D, the gameplay remains on 
 a traditional 2D plane. Producer Yoshinori Ono has stated that he wanted to keep the game closer 
 to Street Fighter II. A new system called "Focus Attacks" ("Saving Attack" for the Japanese version) 
 has been introduced, as well as Ultra moves. The traditional six-button control scheme returns, 
 with new features and special moves integrated into the input system, mixing classic gameplay with 
 additional innovations. [8]
  
  Stephen Kleckner of 1UP. com has stated the game has a similar feel to Super Street Fighter II Turbo, 
 but also has a few features from Street Fighter III 3rd Strike. [9] Pressing both light attack buttons 
 is still for throwing, and both heavy attack buttons are for the personal action or taunts. Both 
 medium attack buttons are for the focus strike. Dashes and quick standing are also in the game. 
 C. Viper is the only character who can perform a high jump 
::::::

::::::
UserName: balrog_z
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 12, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  I have to say I haven't been this hooked on Street Fighter since SFII turbo (the bootleg one where, 
 if you did a fireball with jab it went super slow, and you could do air moves for the first time... 
 You real SF junkies know what I'm talking about) Anyway game play is awesome, I love the attention 
 to detail it's like no stone was left unturned. Online is so much fun (and convenient with PS3) 
 I love how when you're in arcade mode people can just break in and challenge you. I know some people 
 complain about the lack of tournament play or something, but i sure haven't noticed. The anime 
 scenes aren't so bad, and the story lines are decent but if you wanna knit pick I guess that area 
 is a negative. Also the intro music is kind of whack but these are very little things that you 
 will forget about once you start the game up. Game play is ridiculously smooth, even playing with 
 the regular PS3 controller is a synch. The new characters are kind of cool (except Rufus, I hate 
 that guy) Overall if you like fighting games this will not disappoint, if you love Street Fighter 
 games, they don't really get better than this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DIVINEGJR1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2009 2:24 pm PT
Review:  I was very excited on getting the game. Finally put it into the slot. And finally started feeling 
 something. I have not felt in a very long time. The anxiety that many of us would get. When we would 
 pop new carts into old greyboxes (nintendos) . This is going to be a good game if not great that 
 is. Then my first complaint came in. The intro music!!! Who's idea was that. Sounded to me like this 
 overated pop commercials or the typical mainstream. I know maybe it was needed for the hype but 
 not in that form. But soon after the game satisfied me greatly. Even saw the possible street fighter 
 alpha 3 movie. Since gouken is in the game. Would not be surprised. If it happens. Overall the game 
 is classic among the fighter genre. Even though the intro. Never really like the jazz music in marvel 
 vs capcom 2. Seem out of place then. But it still was a classic among 2d fighters/slash? Anyhow the 
 online content is very addicting. I see it almost being as good as playing gears of war online. But 
 thats just me among millions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PMK
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 10, 2009 7:26 am PT
Review:  I have to say I was a huge fan of Street Fighter back in the day... That said Street Fighter IV 
 could have been done on the PS2. They left out the old smashing your opponents through cars and 
 skids. I find the story lines don't make sense, and as much as the combinations Ultra moves are 
 fun to watch, it just doesn't have the appeal that a Mortal Kombat finishing move had. The graphics 
 aren't the greatest, they could have made it a little more realistic, but then I'm sure there would 
 be mothers ranting about how it could hurt their childrens fragile minds... Overall the game is 
 fun for a while, and the online is pretty cool. But renting is a must, do not buy this game until 
 you've rented it or at least played it at a friends place... The days when they could get buy with 
 just punches and kicks with some special moves are over. 
  
  I hope midway comes back with a Mortal Kombat with online capabilities and makes a better impression 
 on me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jmigueli
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2009 5:06 am PT
Review:  I'm getting mixed feelings towards Street Fighter 4. It's like I hate the game and at the same 
 time, loving it. Let me state reasons why I had this feeling towards the game...
  
  Likes :
  -Cell-shaded graphics
  -6 new fighters (I liked C. Viper the most)
  -Akuma and Gouken, 
 awesome characters
  -Lots of colors to choose for the characters costume (so far, i got 9 colors to choose from for 
 EACH character. Dunno if theres more than 9)
  
  Dislikes :
  -Buying alternate costumes for characters ($4-5 each I think)
  -Seth is just ridiculous (teleport, 
 grab, teleport, grab again)
  -El Fuerte... personally, I find him a waste of character and I find it weird that he's a cooking 
 wrestler. They could have placed somebody else... like Nash (I know hes dead) or Adon (that other 
 Muay Thai fighter) or... whoever!
  
  Overall, the game is still awesome. I just wish that we would not have to buy costumes. The achievement 
 system could have been used instead to unlock costumes rather than buying them. Buying the game 
 is enough to spend on. Why must we spend extra for costumes? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ongpower
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 10, 2009 12:56 am PT
Review:  The best in the series will have you playing this masterpiece of the old school fighting game genre 
 hours and on. Lots of reasons for you to fight! Nice range of difficulty levels, online play with 
 little or no lag, literally hundreds of unlockables and even a challenge for veteran Street Fighters! 
 Old fighters return along with new characters the game play mechanics are old school with a new 
 school look which makes it a quick pick up for those wanting to play a casual to very deep fighting 
 system. Aside from unlocking everything and everyone the game expands even farther online with 
 never ending battles against other players across the world. Street Fighter 4 definitely brings 
 back old school fighting games on the next gen consoles. At first I was a bit hesitant about a 
 3D Street Fighter (SFEX2) but this one feels like a 2D fighting game but just looks 3D. Controls 
 are right on as soon as you get the feel for them. Some of the combos are unreal and only those 
 with great finger dexterity will be able to to pull them off but being able to execute those combos 
 will separate those from the beginners to definitely the Street Fighter elite! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: maverick_41
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 9, 2009 8:15 pm PT
Review:  Story
  
  Each character in Street Fighter 4 has their own story. They are a bit shallow and all of them 
 are pretty much the same. Some even have the same "rival". It is all good because of the stellar 
 gameplay of the rest of the game!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Gameplay
  
  Street Fighter 4 is one of the funnest fighters that I have ever played. It has many different 
 modes.
  
  Arcade-A. K. A story mode.
  Versus-Where you can battle with all of your friends.
  Network Battle-Play ranked or player matches 
 with PSN friends or random people across the world.
  Challenge-Where you can attempt to complete many different challenges.
  Gallery-Full of movies, 
 artwork, and the game's credits.
  Options-Don't even know why I put this one in here. Self-explanatory.
  
  Street Fighter 4 is 
 a great game to play at parties, although the people there must have played it before due to it's 
 steep learning curve. Let's just say that you won't be able to start playing it and master it in 
 one day. It is great fun with friends!
  
  Network battles are great except for the 70% of people using either Ryu or Ken in ranked matches. 
 It really drains the fun quick when you have to face the same opponent time after time. 
  
  Street Fighter 4 has great trophy support. It really increases replay value if you are the type 
 of person that likes to complete things 100%. Although there are many of them to collect, some 
 of them just seem impossible to get. All I can say is, good luck!
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Graphics
  
  Street Fighter 4 looks amazing! It has a nice watercolor type style to it. The art and animations 
 in the game are unbelievable. Super and ultra combos are awesome. The blotches of ink when using 
 a focus attack are also pretty cool.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Control
  
  Well, there is no easy way to get around this........ Street Fighter 4 is a button-masher. This 
 will be a turnoff for many people. It has a very steep learning curve. I got it a couple of days 
 after launce and I still haven't figured out how to do super/ultra combos with certain characters. 
 Although it takes a while to learn how to play, it is very rewarding when you finally do.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Sound
  
  Street Fighter 4 sounds amazing, even though some of the songs are a little corny. The sound of 
 landing a punch is pretty cool. They could have done a lot better job with the voice-over though 
 in the anime cut-scenes. That is just awful.
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  
  Overall
  
  Street Fighter 4 is a must buy for Street Fighter fans and just regular fighter fans alike. Capcom 
 really outdid themselves with this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HardBoiledGamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2009 5:55 pm PT
Review:  This is the true sequel to the SF games and I can see that it is amazing. However, there were two 
 things I didn't like about it: the online matches and the difficultly level in arcade (at least 
 on medium hard level) . The online matches I played sometimes break connection with the other person; 
 I'm sure that its not my problem since I have 5 bars of connection. I do admit that I suck, but 
 I don't suck so much that I should stop playing SF4 or suck to the point in which I lose my anger 
 that prevents me from enjoying this game. Although these were "my" issues, this may not apply to 
 anybody else. Aside from these two issues, this game can be considered as one of those "Capcom 
 has done it again" types of games. 
  
  To start things off, every aspect of the game, from character models to flashy backgrounds, are 
 simply perfect. The characters all like very good in their colour, texture, etc. although I think 
 Ryu looks a little to buff. I enjoyed listening to the background music of each stage since they 
 manage to provide a mood that corresponds with the background. A lot of characters didn't make 
 it into the game, which is understandable since this game takes place after the alpha series and 
 SF2 : The New Challengers. But as long as my favourites make it: Ken, Sakura and Fei-Long, then 
 its all good. The neat thing about SF4 is the addition of attacks such as focus attacks and ultra 
 combos. I like using focus attacks, even though I don't use it that much, because back in 3rd Strike, 
 I could not parry even if I had to bet my life on the line, but I consider this to be a form of 
 parrying which is easier to pull off since they both have the same type of idea to it. What makes 
 ultra combos special is that these combos manage to make your character like even more badass once 
 pulled off and hits due to its cinematic animation that it provides each times its pulled off, 
 but it can only be pulled off if the revenge meter is full, which will only increase when being 
 hit. 
  
  Although I haven't unlocked Seth yet (which I'll do later) , my current roster still manages to 
 keep me company in arcade and versus modes. Because I haven't tried other fighting games on PS3 
 like Virtua Fighter 4, I won't make any judgments as to which is better. If you are a fan of fighting 
 games, I highly recommend getting this game and join the World Warriors!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mugupo
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 7, 2009 9:34 pm PT
Review:  This is very good year for PS3 owner who like fighting game, this no doubt best so far it release 
 in PS3. The game is very well made and worth your money, lots of replay value, i play 42 hours, 
 it still has so many mode still need to be unlocked, plus i haven't really play many games online, 
 most character are balance, but it depend who you use, some character are much better facing one 
 than other. 
  
  Graphic is no doubt a first for SF game, similar look like prince of persia, cell shape alike, 
 not everyone would like it first, but many included my self start to live after play a while. The 
 Anime from the game is kinda a let down, too short and isn't well draw. They should use game engine 
 intead.
  
  The gameplay is amazing, new move like EX and focus attack bring new tactics, however focus attack 
 isn't useful for pro, since i think focus attack work against noob the best, pro easily know to 
 counter it, the new move ultra is deadly, does more damage than super plus it can fill out fast 
 after few beat up, make the game more balance but also i think super should fill out faster cause 
 the way it is now, super isn't great to use and often empty because of EX move and focus cancel.
 
  
  The game isn't perfect, but is no doubt still a score of 10 game. It has jap and eng voice selection 
 for movie or in game can be selected for each character. It has added button for all kick and punch 
 make easier to do ultra, there's many custom title and icon that added spice mainly for online, 
 however Capcom does greedy in some way by charging for getting the new custom for chractger, 4 
 bucks for character 1 new custom w/colors isn't a fair price. 
  
  Capcom is thinking about release championship edition for this game, probably included 2 new character 
 DJ and T-Hawk, tournament match, replay etc.. all this can be get it for free for current SF user 
 i think.
  
  I was suprise that just about any fightstick or fightpad is sold out long before it release of 
 the game, when it get re-stock it sold really fast sometime in few minutes ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigd575
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 7, 2009 12:51 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter has always been one of my most favorite fighting games, I've been waiting a long 
 time to see another one come out, and Capcom finally gave it to me. I ain't disappointed one big 
 with it either, everything I wanted is here. Ok there is one thing I didn't like and that's the 
 game is to easy for me, I wished it would have been harder, that's the only thing I ask.
  
  Everything looks really good also it's just a beautiful game in everyway from the characters to 
 everything else. The sound is pretty good I've always enjoyed that though, there was some charters 
 that were missing but it wasn't a big deal because it's set before the third one was. I'm happy 
 as long as Ken is there, he's my favorite character. I didn't really like the online part of the 
 game it's fun once you get a match but it took to long looking for them and stuff when I played. 
 I'll have to check it out again.
  
  Overall Street Fighter IV is great, if you like fighting games then here you go you can't miss 
 it. Will it be better than Tekken? Well have to wait and see.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoRiNi
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 5:40 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter .. MAN it's been CENTURIES!! .. Thanks to capcom this game is resurrected .. and 
 I never played Street fighter this long .. I mean it was always for a couple of weeks and then 
 stop and then the desire come again and so on ... but this time .. it's different .. it's like 
 playing a Role Playing game or something similar.
  
  The game is gorgeous in every way .. except that the difficulty is just too easy .. I mean how 
 ca you get a PERFECT win over the CPU on hardest ?? .. it was disappointing ... The revenge combo 
 is a great deal .. but the movie wasn't good at all . I mean it's always about Ryu and the dark 
 hadou .. it's BORING .. the movie could've been better if it was about the same tournament and 
 every character fought his rival .. Ryu vs Sagat and Gouki vs Gouken .. but whatever 
  The two most important characters and I'm really disappointed as of why they're not in the game 
 , Dee Jay and Hawk *sob* 
  
  Another thing that pissed me off .. is the network on the PS3 It SUCKS!!!! .. I knew it before 
 I buy it .. but I had to buy it on the PS3 because the PS3 controller is better for fighting games 
 ,, it always lags .. you'll have to try fifteen rooms first ( which will say unable to connect) 
 before you can enter a room and play . 
  
  Overall the game is great and soundtrack was fantastic and I'm satisfied .. all I ask for is a 
 few fixes and maybe the game will reach perfection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sonic7777777
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 6, 2009 10:15 pm PT
Review:  Street fighters graphics, sound, multiplayer are all really good. And so are the mechanics of the 
 game for the most part. The one problem or actually two problems i had with the game really suck 
 alot of the fun out of it. First its the blocking. It sucks. You have to press the opposite direction 
 of which your opponents at and its really annoying. You do kind of get used to it i guess but it 
 would be way better if it was just a button. (keep in mind i haven't really played the arcade ones 
 that much and have mostly played the virtual fighter and tekken series) . The second thing that 
 really bugs is in the trial mode where you get to practice all the different types of moves. All 
 the signs are really confusing and one literally looks like a penis. Unless you but the guide witch 
 is another 20 bucks, its really hard to make out what they want you to do, especially on the more 
 complicated moves like the specials. For some characters its easy like Ryu and Sagat. But then 
 for Vega its really hard to understand and see the controls and mechanics that they want you to 
 input for the move. Overall though not bad of a game. Blanka is definitely the best character. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dashizy666
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 6, 2009 5:10 pm PT
Review:  In my twenty five years of gaming I've seen games come and go. Some have become legendary, some 
 have fizzled into obscurity. The street fighter series to me has become the benchmark series for 
 the fighting genre. A game can have the prettiest graphics in the world, Tekken is a great example. 
 But it's the controls that make or break any given fighting masterpiece. Tekken to me is button 
 mashing at its finest. not that is a bad thing . It is only my opinion. Now, when come to ST4, 
 it is by far the best fighting game ever. It sets a new standard for future fighting games. But 
 I highly doubt that It'll ever be duplicated or surpass this game. When it comes to the graphics, 
 it has OMFG written all over it. Not only that, the controls surpass the previous Street fighter 
 games also. From what I played the multiplayer is smooth. But if you feel like playing that the 
 challenge modes give you a great opportunity and help you unlock character colors and other content. 
 If you are new to the series there is a wonderful training mode. Now here is the part when I talk 
 about the control. And I'll say this once, You don't need a ridiculous $140 arcade controller to 
 dominate in this game. If you have a 360 then your SOL because the d-pad is a POS . However, the 
 PS3's D-pad is perfect. Depending on how you map the controls ( skill levels helps a lot also) , 
 you can do just as good with the d-pad as you can with the arcade controller. Overall I'm so happy 
 I bought this game and it was worth the 260 quarters that I payed for. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: xfire312
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 4, 2009 12:23 am PT
Review:  best fighting game EVEEEEEERRR!!!!!!!!
  smooooooooooooth online and leader boards 
  filled wih trohies
  difficulty is just right 
  a new ffaaaantttaaaaasstic challenge mode with 
 fantastic challenges
  
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
 
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
 
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
 
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
 
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
 
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
  JUST PEEEERRRFFFFFEEEEECTTOO
 
  
  
  
  just check it out 
  PSN: Xfire96
  Challenge me online if u own the game on the ps3
  
  BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE BYE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: starkiller4
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD- characters look amazing, superb backgrounds, ultra combo's and super combo's
  
  THE BAD- the moves or some characters are quite difficult to do without an arcade pad e. g. Guile 
 and M. Bison
  
  
  the Street fighter series has been around for many years now and they are all brilliant (apart 
 from in my opinion Street Fighter 2 turbo Hd remix because everything in it was done in Street 
 fighter 2 turbo already) this was because they never changed the recipe, which is make the game 
 simple to play, immersive and to have a wide variety of moves which are awesome, but with the release 
 of release of Street Fighter 4 the standard for fighting games has been raised by a lot, it is 
 amazing. Visually this game has been improved so much with awesome 3d characters and with detailed 
 backgrounds, sound quality has been improved greatly too because in the old games when the characters 
 said the names of there moves it was kind of tinny and muffled. Another way in which Capcom have 
 produced an amazing game is with the addition of the training mode where you can put your opponent 
 in a range of positions and practice your moves on them, also you can take control of them for 
 a few seconds and record a sequence of moves to then try to dodge and counter attack. Another great 
 feature with this game is that whatever character you choose to play with you will never feel as 
 if you can't win with them.
  
  Along with these good points there is one or two bad points as well, such as some of the characters 
 super and ultra combo's are ridiculously hard to do, the main characters that this problem is certain 
 is with guile and m. bison I don't know if anyone else apart from me has found this.
  
  Street Fighter 4 is one of those games that are easy to get the hang of within an hour or two and 
 they never get boring no matter how long you play them for.
  
  Overall I think that this game is defenitely worth the money because its simple and will guarantee 
 you hours of fun.
  
  9.0/10.0
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JrSlane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV. It's been a while my old friend.
  
  While it's a typical fight 'em up, this game doesn't leave much to the imagination. Whether your 
 style is button mashing or pulling off a 20 hit super combo, you will have hours of fun, albeit 
 with some mightily sore thumbs.
  
  
  What's also great about this game is the amount of challenges available and things to unlock. From 
 the regular arcade mode, to the survival and time trial modes, it really does keep you playing. 
 With a whole host of new characters, costumes, movies and trophies to complete, you won't be seeing 
 sunlight for a good couple of days! ... and that's not even mentioning the dream of online! 
  
  Overall this is a great game. Whether you're a young gun strutting your stuff online, or if 
 you're like me and not a teen anymore, it will not only remind you of your childhood memories, 
 but will crush them.
  
  Definitely worth the purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gohansephiroth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 3, 2009 2:35 am PT
Review:  As a fan of street fighter from the very beginning of its arcade inception I have eagerly been 
 anticipating this game. And its no surprise that this game is everything Id hoped for and more, 
 it has great art design and it brings these characters to life like never before. Each character 
 is beautifully animated and has their own distinct personality that can be seen through there fighting 
 style as well. The new comers Rufus, El Fuerte, C. Viper, Abel, Seth, and Gouken fit in the games 
 cast well, although Seth's AI as well as the difficulty of the game might be a bit challenging 
 for a novice player, it is a good challenge to help you hone your skills and will have you continuing 
 to strive to get better as you play more. There are a number of modes that will keep the player 
 busy for quite a while with modes such as survival, time attack and various trial modes that will 
 help you master combos. The online mode of the game works great and has little to no lag what so 
 ever, the match making system could be better but overall its decent and will have you putting 
 many hours into it. Street Fighter 4 is a very balanced fighting game that only has a few characters 
 that might be a bit unbalanced but overall it doesn't throw off the feel of the sublime fighting 
 engine this game has, and it feels more fluid and intuitive than any other fighting game I have 
 ever played. The anime cut scenes are decent but leave a bit to be desired but overall their purpose 
 is justified since they do exactly what they set out to do which is give you just enough back story 
 to figure out what the characters motivations are. One of the coolest bonus's added is the ability 
 to change each individual characters voices between English and Japanese which is pretty awesome 
 for mixing and matching your favorite characters voices, along with that there are alternate colors 
 and character actions to unlock. All in all Street Fighter 4 is an awesome game that brings all 
 the best aspects of the original street fighter games and molds them into a truly great fighting 
 game that reminds us why fighting games were once king and hopefully Street Fighter 4 will bring 
 the genre back to its rightful glory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sstonee
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 3, 2009 12:28 am PT
Review:  I'm not much of a fighting game person but Street Fighter has been the one to always get me to 
 come back for more and Street Fighter IV is no exception. Within the first few minuets of game 
 play I was so fascinated with how the actual characters look as well enviorment. It was just a 
 little while we were all awed by SF II Turbo HD Remix and now we come to this. Each character has 
 a beautiful anime scene before and after the tournament. Some characters, however, are not so attractive 
 as they should look. Ryu for example looks more... something I can't think of. As well as design 
 the American voice acting is mostly terrible and should have never been done. Some of them don't 
 really match at all with the character. They should have kept it the way they have had all the 
 years of Street Fighter. You should definitely pick this up. A must have for any fighter fan. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matthova
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 8:40 pm PT
Review:  I liked Street Fighter 2 from back in the day, and lemme tell you, it lives up to all the hype. 
 SF4 is the best fighting game i've played in a while. Of course you've noticed that the game doesnt 
 try too hard to look realistic. Its cell shaded for nostalogic purposes. However the fighting has 
 real mechanics. 
  
  Anyway most all your favorite fighters are back, as well as some cool new ones. Rufus is hilarious, 
 while Abel is kinda dull. I personally like Sakura because she has a fighting style like Ken and 
 Ryu. The final boss is a straight up cheater. It will take a little luck to beat him at any level, 
 yes even EASIEST. However you shouldnt let that discourage you from takin him on!
  
  The game has plenty of modes to keep you busy like Survival, Challenge mode (WHich is very useful) , 
 and of course training. I really like the fact that you can take the fight online, but be warned, 
 there are alot of great players out there. 
  
  Overall there's just not a lot wrong with this game. Go out and buy if you're looking for nonstop 
 fun. Just be prepared to hone your skills to take on the "world" warriors!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: J-Z-
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:04 pm PT
Review:  
  
  If you have very little or no experience whatsoever with any recent installments in the street 
 fighter series, Street Fighter IV can be a very unpleasant and difficult experience. 
  
  
  The control inputs: All control inputs are displayed in arcade symbolism. Meaning, you will 
 have to decipher and understand
  icons representing directional buttons and actions buttons such as square, x, circle, and triangle. 
 For a casual or newcomer, this method is quite confusing and much more harder to learn then learning 
 inputs the old fashioned way with their original icons.
  
  The difficulty: Even on the easiest difficulty... expect to lose. I can't stress this enough. Whereas 
 most fighting games feature very low difficulties for newcomers to become adjusted to... Street 
 fighter Iv features a very steep difficulty setting. Most notably with opponents such as Vega, 
 Bison, and final boss Seth. 
  
  Unlockables: To Unlock character artwork, extra costume colours, as well as other items, you will 
 be forced to complete "challenge mode". A mode which features a variety of different obstacles 
 you must face such as performing difficult button combination, or facing an onslaught of difficult 
 opponents ... one after another. The character artwork is worth investing time into but unlocking 
 winning poses and colour edits seems pathetic.
  Especially with games like Soul Calibur III and IV where you are given the option to edit a character's 
 colour's RIGHT FROM THE START. But, remember, with steep difficulties and difficult button inputs... newcomers 
 won't get very far without constant constant training. Basically, the method used to unlock simplistic 
 items is a tad too difficult.
  
  The fighting engine: 2D fighting system without side stepping or 8 way to counter attacks easily. 
 If you aren't interested in old school styled 2D fighting games, don't expect to be amazed.
  But if you do enjoy a similar engine to the early street fighter ports, this system will feel right 
 at home with you. 
  
  The bottom line: 
  
  To the hardcore long time fans of the series and their recent installments... this is the holy grail. 
 To the rest of the world, rent it first in its entirety BEFORE you make a decision. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamerpoopy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2009 2:57 am PT
Review:  Street fighter 4 is a good game. I really like the old 2D classic i used to play in the days but 
 now what troubles me is the difficulty of the game. It really pisses me off, even in easy mode 
 is really hard. the modes are easiest, easier (im not sure about the 2nd) easy, medium, medium hard, hard, im 
 not sure about the next (i forgotten) hardest. See the modes.... i just tried hard mode and..... 
 i was screwed at level 3 .....
  
  I like this game about the graphics, the way they made it. Nice visuals Capcom. I kinda like the 
 multiplayer . But the other players online most of them are really hardcore and they might just 
 screw u in a flash. Audio is great and character design is still ok. Many people are using akuma 
 and i only get to beat that player who is using it twice with Ken. (im better at ken when facing 
 akuma) 
  
  The combos are really good with the fighting pad (the controller's aren't as good) U can do combos 
 when ur ultra gauge is full and super when ur super gauge is filled im not sure if there is anything 
 more to say but overall this game is excellent but the modes are really hard and tough. This game 
 is tough to recommend to new players who never played street fighter before . This is just my opinion. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: calvinsora
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:12 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter is a game most fighter-fans know, and if they don't, they've been missing out. Street 
 Fighter 2 is said to have rebuilt the fighting genre in its entirety, and it's hard to argue that 
 fact. Street Fighter 4 has done what it was destined to do: Revive Street Fighter in all its glory. 
 It is truly an achievement in gaming.
  
  Capcom made the wise choice in not changing the core gameplay at all and there is much to be found 
 which is the same in Street Fighter 2 and Street Fighter 4. Attacks are done by pressing buttons 
 (obviously) which are six in total, heavy kick, heavy punch, medium kick, medium punch, light kick 
 and light punch. This, along with the analog stick, is utilized to create a plethora of attacks. 
 However, there are not many moves that require long rows of button presses. It's more in what way 
 every attack is performed, in which order and which button you press. These attacks can be stringed 
 into beautiful combos but they are combos in name only. Street Fighter 4 takes a correct turn in 
 sacrificing complexity for utter simplicity, to make SF4 the ultimate "pick up and play" game. 
 There are, however, some new stuff, like focus attacks, strong attacks that serve both offensive 
 and defensive purposes, and super and ultra attacks that can change the situation in battle. One 
 side-note: This game can also be played on a so-called arcade pad, which makes the game more authentic.
 
  
  The host of characters is big, with many familiar characters and some new character to mix up the 
 experience. For example, the six original fighters come back, alongside Fei Long, Cammy and Akuma. 
 Of course there are others but these are just examples. New fighters are for examples the rotund 
 Rufus and the weapon-user C. Viper. There's also the human-weapon Seth and Ryu's and Ken's mentor, 
 Gouken. Every fighter is unique and complex in use but learning their style doesn't take long and 
 this diverse fray offers complete freedom in everyone's experience of the game.
  
  The story of each character is tied together by completely amateur anime-cutscenes which are easy 
 to understand but feel like they lack all effort. This is one of the games downsides but it's relatively 
 small compared to the overall great character design. The stories aren't that impressive but you 
 can't expect a MGS-style story in a fighting game.
  
  The graphics are beautiful, feel cel-shaded but are also like they're hand-drawn. Focus attacks 
 create beautiful black ink streaks on the screen and character make funny and strange faces when 
 attacked, which still manages to feel real at the same time.
  
  The sound might not be extraordinary, but it's fun when you notice it. The only bad thing is that 
 the title song (which I like quite a lot) is played again and again in the menu. Otherwise, it 
 does a great job.
  
  SF4 is varied when it comes to game modes. There's a classic arcade mode, which is of course fun 
 and exciting. Then there's survival mode, time trial and trial mode, which presents a series of 
 challenges for each character. The game also has a good training mode where you can train each 
 of your characters against other opponents. The multiplayer is possibly the biggest of all modes, 
 and there are many ways you can fight people both locally and globally. For instance, you can program 
 it so that a player can challenge you while your playing the arcade mode, making it feel like a 
 player is approaching you in an arcade booth (well, kind of) . It's very comfortable and easy to 
 use.
  
  The game itself is pretty hard, and the computer is sometimes unfair, using attacks that are hard 
 to perform multiple times but that just makes you think harder about your next move.
  
  This game is an incredible display of how far fighting games can go regarding overall polish, beauty 
 and simplicity, and it is an experience all fighter-fans should experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AweWiiGamer1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:17 am PT
Review:  Street Fighter is arguably one of the most popular and instantly one of the most reconizible series 
 in the legacy of gaming. Even with the somehow renowned misfire that was Street Fighter III, and 
 whilst not constantly in the limelight of commerical notice, the Street Fighter franchise has garnered 
 an impact no other fighting franchise has created before. Street Fighter IV is not only a genuinely 
 worthy follow-up to the beloved Street Fighter II, but easily, the most stylized and the best Street 
 Fighter to be released yet.
  
  Street Fighter IV mixes the old with the new gameplay mechanic. The tradiotonal six-button control 
 scheme from the classic Street Fighter titles returns, but a new system called: "Focus Attacks", 
 which is when you hold down down both your medium punch and kick, has been introduced, as well 
 as the all-powerful Ultra Moves. When you fill up your Super Combo Meter in the game, you can pull 
 of your EX move which is a much more powerful version of your usual attacks, and will dramatically 
 weaken your oppenent. Street Fighter IV approaches classic concepts with new ideas, and somehow 
 interwines them so flawlessly in the gameplay, it feels just like the perfect wedding of opposites 
 attract. Street Fighter IV never insults the intelligence and skill level of the player, as Street 
 Fighter IV's boundless difficulty levels and a constructive learning curve, to when you make a 
 victory, you really do feel like you deservered the victory. Street Fighter IV does suffer though 
 sometimes in the gameplay merely feeling like a modernized Street Fighter II. Street Fighter IV 
 though balances the old a new to a genius degree, feeling an old school classic bursting with a 
 fresh flavour.
  
  Street Fighter IV graphically could be considered digital art. The 2D side scrolling plane heavenly 
 matched with a lucious 3D background create a surprsingly both realistic and cartoony look. Street 
 Fighter IV creates that route of escapism that most games are in a dire need of.
  
  Street Fighter IV does loose some quality in some small features such as the audio. The audio ranges 
 from some incredibly standout tunes, to some blend generic Japanese vocal tracks and mundane menu 
 themes. But, Street Fighter IV has some magical remixes of classic Street Fighter tunes, so the 
 rarely forgettable music is easily forgiven. The anime sequences in the story mode of Street Fighter 
 IV, are not exactly relevant, but considering anime is art, it is seemingly wasted here, but the 
 story mode is not important in Street Fighter IV, so its a minor quibble.
  
  Overall, Street Fighter IV is Street Fighter II at heart, but executed with such grace and passion 
 from Capcom, its more than enough reason to say Street Fighter IV is the greatest fighter of this 
 gen yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandaramaster
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2009 9:01 am PT
Review:  Part of the reason why Street Fighter 4 is considered to be a massive leap forward for the Street 
 Fighter series is the leap into 3-D. While this is not the first time Street Fighter ventured into 
 3-D, Street Fighter 4 does mark the first time it's been done well. Sticking to the conventional 
 2-D fighting plane of Street Fighter 2 it bypasses all of the short comings of moving such 2-D 
 games into 3-D. It does mean however that collected as a whole, you'd be hard to push to find anything 
 that truly takes Street Fighter 4 to the next level of the fighting genre, if there is one. Part 
 of the problem stems from its strict following of the Street Fighter 2 formula - hell all twelve 
 of the classic characters are in here so the connection is more than apparent. Obviously that's 
 not truly a bad thing since Street Fighter 2 is one of the best games ever made. But the problem, 
 well, just count how many versions of Street Fighter 2 there is. If I'm honest, I am starting to 
 get a little bored of playing Street Fighter 2 and I was really surprised at just how incredibly 
 similar Street Fighter 4 played.
  
  This does mean, however, Street Fighter 4 is a title you can quickly get to grips with and have 
 a good fight before you start delving into the intricate combos, super combos, ultra combos and 
 the all new Focus moves. The super combos and ultra combos are available to you during a fight 
 when your EX-bar and Revenge meter are powered up by landing hits and taking hits. If you're a 
 Street Fighter veteran you already know how these moves work, if you're not sure how to activate 
 these moves it essentially means doing the directional input twice and then using a punch/kick, 
 for example. The other thing that's new is the Focus. The Focus move is the next step from Street 
 Fighter 3's "Parry" system but incredibly more simple and effective. You basically hold down both 
 medium kick and punch to charge your character up and then unleash an un-blockable move from which 
 you can the start chaining a string of combo attacks. It's pretty intuitive and balanced well, 
 you consume one segment of your EX bar for its use, and is perhaps the only innovative thing in 
 the core gameplay of Street Fighter 4. All of the twelve classic characters from SF 2 have the 
 exact same move list, so on with the new characters!
  
  The characters of Street Fighter 2 are such a tightly knitted family that any new additions will 
 be under close scrutiny from fans and such, and most of the new additions are immediately shunned 
 away. With the possible exception of Fei Long and Cammy, every other Street Fighter in the proper 
 canon (excluding Alpha and the EX spin offs) are cast aside, so the new four characters in Street 
 Fighter 4 have a lot to live up to. The new characters come in the shape of C. Viper, the new sexy 
 red head; Rufus, a tub of lard with some impressive speed and strength; Abel, the amnesia suffering 
 French soldier and El Fuerte, the Mexican wrestler with a soft spot for cooking. All four characters 
 are okay. I mean there's nothing spectacular about them, they fit in well and have interesting 
 move lists, but, because the classic SF 2 characters are in SF4, they'll probably end up being 
 neglected. There's actually 25 characters in all for Street Fighter 4 (start with 16, 9 locked) , 
 with each locked character requiring specific ways to unlock them, such as finishing so many rounds 
 with a perfect victory.
  
  Getting all 9 hidden characters is a challenge itself and adds to the longevity of the single player. 
 There's the mandatory Arcade mode complete with anim intros and epilogues for each character. 
 There's also the compulsory training mode and the new challenge mode, which are extremely challenging 
 and require the utmost perfection to complete. The game also supports an artwork gallery, movie 
 gallery and a collection of badges and rank titles for you to fill out. There's a lot here to be 
 done for the single player but the variety is perhaps a little lacking compared to the likes of 
 Soul Calibur 4, which may or may not be a bad thing depending on how you look at it. The meat of 
 the game comes from the multiplayer with both offline and online modes available. The multiplayer 
 is as it's always been; two fighters fight in a numbered round, one with the most round wins is 
 the winner. Simple and insanely fun. There's no other gimmicks involved that change the fight's 
 gravity, for example, but for a pure unadulterated fight you can find no equal to the majestic 
 fighting purity of Street Fighter 4. Lag can be an issue though, it depends on either character's 
 connection speed. If one is slightly off the game becomes considerably lagged.
  
  Street Fighter 4 boasts an amazing art style that befits the game's nature and adds to the appeal 
 of the experience as a whole. Smoothly animated character models with over-exaggerated facial expressions 
 are instantly attractive, as are the detailed backgrounds and the subtle effects of lighting and 
 particles. It truly is a glorious game to watch. The audio is also commendable with the option 
 of character specific language settings of either English or Japanese; crunchy sound effects and 
 a cool soundtrack - except that dreadful theme song - that combines elements of the classic Street 
 Fighter 2 soundtrack with the new in an appropriate manner.
  
  Street Fighter 4's longevity will last as long as players are playing and given the popularity 
 of the title, it'll be around for a while yet. The single player mode is only a slither of the 
 overall SF4 experience but there's more than enough to keep you going and be satisfied with, but 
 the true beauty of the game comes from the multiplayer. It really does come alive with a friend 
 or a stranger willing to play. It's as in-depth as you want it to be and there's no real penalty 
 for not bothering with the subtle combo mechanics of the game - unless you like losing a lot online 
 because there's some serious competition out there.
  
  Overall Street Fighter 4 is on fine form for a Street Fighter game. Rather than try something completely 
 ground breaking for the franchise, and indeed for the fighting genre the franchise popularized, 
 it instead focuses on perfecting and tweaking the winning formula seen in Street Fighter 2. While 
 some consider it to be the most accessible SF to date, its strict adherence to the Street Fighter 
 2 template is what stops me from really enjoying the game because the game offers nothing new in 
 terms of gameplay innovation. If you love the franchise chances are you already have it. But, and 
 I cannot stress this enough, if you never enjoyed any of the previous Street Fighter titles in 
 the past you will not find anything new or different to change your mind. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlayPlayStation
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 7:03 am PT
Review:  When I first picked this up I was a little disappointed. It sure is pretty but I couldn't get into 
 it. It felt like EX!
  
  Then everything changed when I dove into the combo challenge mode. That's when I realized how technical 
 and deep this game is. It shows you how to do a variety of combos using basic moves, focus attacks, 
 special moves and super/ultra moves. To be honest, this mode is very practical and addictive at 
 the same time.
  
  Another big plus to this game is the character roster! Nostalgic and classic SSFII Turbo characters 
 return with the addition of six new characters. You can look forward to some old-school matchups.
 
  
  Whether you play this online, with a buddy or alone, there's a lot to accomplish. Tons of trophies 
 and unlockables. And if you ever want a good challenge, you can try climbing to the top in the 
 player ranking online.
  
  I think this game is very suitable for both hardcore and casual gamers. You can enjoy this the 
 old SF way or get fansy by pulling off some technical combos. The focus system really mixes things 
 up for the series. It is refreshing! And what's a better way to KO your opponent than linking a 
 super move with an ultra move. I haven't seen anything like this before in previous SF games. 
 
  
  Now here are some technical things to conclude:
  
  Graphics: Innovative mix of art style with technology. Excellent!
  Sound: Okay for the most part. 
 I didn't like all the English voices.
  Gameplay: Focus system is cool. Combos are cooler!
  Replay Value: Good enough for a fighting game. Read above for more details.
  Overall: Its superb 
 gameplay and replay value dictate its overall presentation for the most part. It delivers a complete 
 fighting experience! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bazackward
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  Ok, so maybe I'm out of practice, but this game is freaking HARD!! That being said, so far it's 
 a great experience and I feel like I'm going to get my money's worth out of it.
  
  This game is a good balance of old and new. I like it a lot better than the previous Street Fighters 
 that have come out between this one and Street Fighter II. It's back to basics.
  
  Good stuff:
  
  --Old characters have the same moves they used to have while new characters 
 have new and different control schemes.
  
  --Nobody is a push-over! This game is a good refresher in Easiest mode and I feel Medium difficulty 
 can challenge those of us who used to own the arcade when Street Fighter II was out.
  
  --Graphics are pretty hawt.
  
  --New Super and Ultra move system is well-designed.
  
  Not-so-great 
 Stuff:
  
  --Some moves and abilities that old characters used to destroy people with (i. e.: Ryu's Street 
 Fighter II Hadoken) are not as strong. Similarly, some characters' worthless abilities (i. e.: Balrog's 
 Street Fighter II Dash Upper) is pretty over-powered.
  
  --Loading screen takes foreeeeeeeeeeever! (Update: If you install the game to your PS3 hard drive, 
 the load time is MUCH better.)
  
  --The difficulty is pretty insane .... though maybe I'm just out of practice.
  
  --Story lines 
 in Arcade Mode have PS2-type graphics, they're short, and are generally pretty lame.
  
  Overall: It's worth it for Street Fighter fans, but don't expect to walk into it and immediately 
 destroy the competition. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rafay48
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 27, 2009 11:08 pm PT
Review:  Street fighter has been a great series, it has captivated lots of people around the world. But 
 the new release of Street fighter 4 is shocking, simply amazing.
  Not better than Tekken 6, because i have been a fan of both, and this has really impressed me, 
 with the stunning 3D graphis, This street fighter is a classic. The beauty of Street Fighter IV 
 stems from how approachable the game is and how it can be enjoyed on so many different levels. 
 For those gamers interested in grabbing trusty ol' Ryu and diving into the mix, things will feel 
 natural and there's no need to obsess over learning all the subtle details and nuances that make 
 up the fighting game experience. However, there's so much flowing beneath the surface of Street 
 Fighter IV's mechanics that long-time fans will have plenty to learn and re-master, if they want 
 to truly understand the gameplay. 
  
  For example, one of the newest systems in Street Fighter IV is the Focus system, which allows a 
 character to charge up an attack that will knock an opponent down if it connects properly. For 
 a beginner, the Focus Attack isn't necessarily needed to win. He or she could simply rely on the 
 traditional assortment of fireballs and dragon punches to get by and have a good time doing it. 
 But if the Focus Attack seems appealing, performing it is a piece of cake -- just hold down both 
 Medium Punch and Medium Kick together and charge it up (or alternatively, just assign the attack 
 to a button of your choice in the options menu) . With a simple input, the player now has access 
 to an attack that adds another layer to the combat. 
  
  But that's not all there is to the Focus system. Players who want to dig even deeper into the technical 
 elements of it all will learn that the Focus Attack can also absorb a single oncoming strike without 
 being interrupted. Although you take damage for the absorption, that damage will heal given time. 
 In this way, the Focus Attack becomes a defensive technique as well as an offensive one and offers 
 even more strategy for players to consider. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilmiki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 7:00 pm PT
Review:  the game is AMAZING. it is one of the best if not the best fighting game i have ever played. the 
 feel of the game is perfect. it is also very addictive you will lose track of time playing it. 
 the game has over 20 characters. the cut scenes are gorgeous and the graphics are outstanding for 
 a fighting game. in addition the stylish art work when fighting are beautiful. the sound effects 
 are just unbelievable and i love the background art, it's picture perfect. they also added some 
 humor in to the game as well. the online play is also great the music, however could have been 
 better. hands down its a great game for anyone, i have friends that hate fighting games but when 
 the played sf4 they loved it so much they bought it themselves. if you don't believe me see for 
 yourselves, you will be playing this game for weeks, no months. if you don't believe me see for 
 yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itchyflop
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 4:24 am PT
Review:  Street fighter to me is many an hour spent down the local chippy with 50p's bulging out the coin 
 slot ready to challenge other school kids!! Then it hit the home market on the snes/megadrive (genesis) , 
 you had to pay almost triple on the snes just to play it, again it was a smash hit and my front 
 room was full of my friends dying to play it, winner stays on!!. After all the hype had died it 
 hit the "new" machines and it wasnt received aswell as before but non the less sold well. 
  
  Now here is street fighter 4 and has it travelled well down its 20 year sprint? The answer 
 is "YES"!! You are hit with an awesome introduction, a so well presented title/choice screen that 
 your fingers dont know where to press. The colour and depth of this game is somehow compelling 
 and the motion stop move when you kill someone is such a nice touch, backdrops, though almost reminisant 
 of the classic still manage to uplift the game even higher with old horizons freshened up ilke 
 a bottle of comfort!! I especially ilke guiles "raf" style base level. 
  
  Get a friend round or challenge online, without much warning!! But this only adds to the arcade 
 atyle of it!! Its just a blast, and in 1080p i guarentee you ll be playing this for a while!! Now 
 in the past some "new" characters have been a little flat or "predictable", man there's a mexican 
 with a frying pan travelling the world for new recipes!! The new characters are different, but 
 again somehow right and you feel you already know them!!
  
  With plenty of history, capcom couldnt really get this one wrong, i dont know how but they have 
 managed to give new life to an old sea dog!! Everything has been vastly improved with the most 
 prominant being the visuals.
  
  Buy it, and at 25 quid (on most online sites) its a must have. The feel of the game is somehow 
 just perfect. I really enjoy a bash on street fighter still (after 20 years!!) but this had my 
 eyes just watering and my mates laughing out loud "next time i'll kick your ass!!"
  
  Awesome visuals, playability, fresh new characters, speedy, loads of options, secrets, and you 
 cannot deny..... ITS STREET FIGHTER. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steveeeeboi
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 12:50 am PT
Review:  Graphics 10/10
  I'm not going to say the graphics are the best in the world, but by far it's the best graphics 
 on a fighting game so far. Nice art style keeping the classic look of the characters. The effects 
 during fights are very nice and stylized to make it look more dramatic.
  
  Gameplay 10/10 
  For any people that have played classic street fighters, will pick this up and 
 already be familiar with the moves and fight system. It plays very similair to street fighter 2 
 just polished up with a better combo system and the new focus attack system. Only quirk to me about 
 this game is they dropped the parry system from previous street fighters, it's not really a problem 
 just takes getting used to. And difficulty is not that hard, just got to adapt to the game and 
 learn proper strategies.
  
  Sound 8/10
  This is the only department I am remotely dissapointed about. The opening intro song is terrible. 
 Street fighter 2 and 3 were known for having amazing soundtracks that you would remember for years 
 and years and would not mistake it for anything else. Street fighter 4 however, in my opinion i 
 could definatley live without the corny intro song, but the remixed classics are top notch and 
 nostalgic.
  
  Overall this game is by far one of the best in the series, far exceeding my expectations. This 
 game is not for everybody, its not a button mash, beat em up that most people would think, but 
 a strategic game that takes little skill to pick up, but alot of skill to master. And to anyone 
 reading this, please do yourself a favor and skip the intro lol. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: antesolem
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 25, 2009 10:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok, the game is great... Graphic are incredible: that mix between animation, 3d modeling and paint 
 brush effect .. just hit the spot perfectly.
  and the online part bring a real challenge, you just going to love it.
  
  but (yes there is 
 a but) there is 1 extremely frustrating problem.
  and that "SETH".
  how to put it ?
  the first 6 hours I played (trying to unlock the extra characters) i pass 4 hours on Seth.. and 
 i was just on medium.
  and here why:
  * He teleports so much that you will have a stroboscope effect. I mean there is no way you can 
 keep up with that.
  * Don't even try a special on it, all his move have priority so yes I will succeed to grab you 
 even if you were ready to bet that you touch him
  * ok you hit him .. well before he hit the ground, guess what .. yes he just did a 12 hit combo 
 to you.. 
  
  so yes SETH is a pain (in particular for non Ryu-Ken type of characters) .. and that really drop 
 the fun factor. to the point time to time i just stop playing cause I'm just to pissed. (yes that 
 a personal feeling)
  
  so i can resume that game by saying: 
  Great Game but too extreme in difficulty for the average or lower fighting players.
  
  
  
 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BelzebuVlad
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 12:32 pm PT
Review:  Ok, before everyone starts flaming me and giving thumbs down on this review I beg you to read it 
 and only after that, if you don't agree thumb it down. So Street Fighter IV, I bought it, played 
 it and... while I understand why some may rate it 10, 9 or whatever, this is my opinion, and that 
 is: this is like any other 2d fighting game out there, and that is not acceptable in 2009, gaming 
 has evolved but Street Fighter hasn't, the graphics are the only thing that really stands out, 
 but the overall GAME itself, could be a lot better. I was addicted of the first couple Street Fighter 
 games and it's variants, Alpha, Ex and such, I spent many nights playing with my little cousins 
 and little brother knocking the hell out of each other, and it was damn fun, damn great, but that 
 was around 1998, 1997? or even farther than that. the Street fighter games had no rival with it's 
 frantic style and ranged attacks, but come on! Street Fighter plays like a refined version of any 
 other Street Fighter game since SFII, and for that we have the 15$ SSF2THDRemix, nowadays paying 
 so much for that the SF4 package is outrageous. On PS3 we've got Virtua Fighter 5, with only THREE 
 buttons and a lot of depth (one of the three buttons is a GUARD button, you have to press a button 
 made to GUARD, not only walk backwards and accidentally defend from an attack! I'm defending a 
 6 hit combo and when I realise it, I'm across the screen from walking backwards) , Soul Calibur 
 4, not as good as it should and as it was but it provides a lot of customization, adding immersion 
 to the game, and with so many game modes, many unlockable characters, plenty to do. MK vs DC, haven't 
 tried it yet so i can't review it, but as far as I know they aimed to return to it's roots and 
 as a franchise, you can't say they haven't made risks.... do you see where I'm trying to get here?
 
  So Street Fighter IV is very primitive for another sequel of a game with 20 years and dozens of 
 iterations, the game revolves around arcade mode, fighting the AI one character after another, 
 hadoukens and the same old combos, trying to defend while walking backwards... Graphics are fun 
 to look at, Ken and Ryu look like their arms and torso are made of balloons, but besides that all 
 you do in this game is arcade, versus local or online play, practice and... challenges! where you... fight! 
 There are a few unlockables, like: different colored sprites, two or three alternate costumes, different 
 catch phrases... nothing really substantial to keep you fighting the same AI opponents-Street Fighter 
 is a great series that doesn't seem to realise where it stands nowadays. Giving so much money for 
 it is an abuse, cause it stands as a good game on an arcade cabinet, not on a PS3 or Xbox 360.
 
  Street Fighter... R. I. P. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dawnnoob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 24, 2009 11:56 pm PT
Review:  this game brings back the arcade feeling right at home
  anyone can simply start and play the game no problem.
  it runs smoothly, with lots of content 
 to make you play everyday.
  
  I recommend using ken or ryu , for starters
  Online play with a ranking system is great.
  you wont notice lagg , unless its red, but just 
 barely
  at least 80% of my matches are lag free . just dont play
  with people in different countries, example puerto rico vs Usa .
  the arcade stick is a must 
 to have the experience for arcade
  but its not necessary . 
  
  Whatever your tastes are it works fine with the ps3 controller.
  Cut scenes are cool to watch. 
 the only annoying part is the 
  main theme during the title screen. Its a 2d - 3d fighting at its best
  Buy it, play it, you 
 will play months, years , decades, well if another comes along , its that good and addictive. over 
 25 characters in all 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjames4040
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 24, 2009 8:38 am PT
Review:  In one of the greatest fighting games ever made, Street Fighter 4 makes a gaming comeback for the 
 ages.
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  It is simply amazing how they were able to pull off next gen graphics while making it have the 
 same street fighter feel that people fell in love with. The stages look great, with plenty of detail 
 in them.
  
  
  Sound 9.5/10
  
  The music is good, and the theme song is really garbage (I got annoyed of it after hearing it only 
 twice,) but using your own music is a lot better. When you fight Seth in arcade mode, I strongly 
 suggest a song called "freakin me" by Jamie Foxx feat. Marsha Ambrosius. Don't ask Questions, just 
 listen to it. The song adds effect to the weird level design. Don't pay any attention to the lyrics, 
 just pay attention to the melody and the music.
  
  
  Gameplay 10/10
  
  This is the best part of the game. The fighting flows together beautifully. The combos are awesome 
 and the revenge meter makes up for the loss of the parrying system that was in Street Fighter 3. 
 
  
  The problem with many of the fighting games that I have played is that the characters are unbalanced 
 (which leads to unfair advantages that is so unfair that it could be passed off as cheating) , or 
 the gameplay feels gimmicky and unoriginal, or my favorite, the moves for every character try to 
 pass off as if they were different but are virtually the same. Street Fighter 4 seems to make sure 
 that none of these mistakes are in the game.
  
  
  Online 10/10
  
  What would street fighter be without playing against other people? Well, online mode lets you play 
 against thousands of other people that are looking for bragging rights by earning battle points 
 and various other titles in the game. I also hear that they will add an online championship mode 
 soon. 
  
  Another great online option is the online arcade mode. This mode will let you play arcade until 
 and online player challenges you to a fight. Afterwards, you can go right back to where you left 
 off in arcade just like if you were at an arcade store. This truly embodies the "arcade" feel to 
 the game.
  
  
  Arcade 9.5/10
  
  This mode serves up some great rival battles and stunning animations. You can also unlock many 
 items and new characters that give a fresh face to the Street Fighter franchise. Remember "freakin 
 me" by Jamie Foxx for the boss battle. lol
  
  
  
  Excuse me if I am going off topic, but I must address all of the people who don't like this game 
 with one simple question. WHAT DID YOU EXPECT? What more can you ask for a game that is even more 
 intense than the original. Did you want the game to give you a million dollars when you beat it? 
 I'm just wondering what more could you ask for. Instead of yappin about how much you don't like 
 the game, how about you give us some tips on how to make it better. Oh wait, you dont have any, 
 do you? 
  
  The reason why I love street fighter so much is because has its own type of feel to the game. In 
 order to play it effectively, you must throw away all of the tactics that you learned for beating 
 soul caliber, tekken, etc. This game has to be played in a whole different kind of way in order 
 to be successful at it. 
  Street fighter 4 is probably the best fighting game I have ever played, so haterz, once again, 
 FALL BACK!!!!!!!!!!!
  -mjames4040
  
  I almost forgot. HADOUKEN!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 13, 2009 8:37 pm PT
Review:  "Street Fighter IV" maybe "Street Fighter II" for a whole new generation of gamers, but that's 
 probably the best thing about it. It takes everything that SF II fans know and loved and updates 
 for next-gen consoles. Ryu and the old gang of "World Warriors" have returned and their movesets 
 have not changed for the most part. Anybody familiar with the EX moves of "Street Fighter Alpha" 
 will appreciate the powerful super moves. Unfortunately, there is no "parry" system that was featured 
 in "Street Fighter III". Still, this game is basically homage to the most popular title in the 
 series and it delivers big. Fans of SF II will recall memories of all the arcade gaming goodness 
 as SF IV is a big throwback to the days of one-on-one competition. The tight controls and fluid 
 attacks are the stars of the shows. As far as the classic characters, they're just as fun to control 
 as they were in the early 1990's. The new character seem like SNK rejects, but fit the universe 
 perfectly. When you begin to name the great fighters, SF II would probably be the first one you'd 
 remember. Now it's SF IV that will reclaim the fighter franchise once again. This is a great game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: llvllaster
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Good Evening, thought it was about time i posted a review of Street Fighter IV, which arrived in 
 the post on Saturday. I've never been that good at fighting games, i'm usually to impatient to 
 block and always leave myself open to a slaughtering. I have a few of the Soul Calibur and Tekken 
 games, but Street Fighter was a game i found too hard, and was a bit too young when Street Fighter 
 2 was out anyway.
  
  The difficulty here hasn't changed. I'm finding the game incredibly difficult, and at the moment 
 i'm playing on easy! The great thing about Street Fighter though is that i know its my somewhat 
 questionable skills at fighting games that's making it hard which helps my strive to carry on playing!
 
  
  The game opens up onto an arcade styled menu with the standard modes you'll come to expect from 
 a fighting game: Arcade Mode, Versus Mode, Network Battle, Challenge Mode etc. and these will definately 
 keep you going for a while! Arcade Mode is the standard fight your way through harder and harder 
 characters... and it really does get tough! The AI is fantastic and really tests your moves, your 
 fingers will have blisters trying to throw in quick combos whilst dodging a fireball and leaping 
 away from an uppercut. Every battle you'll win you'll truly feel that you've defeated a worthy 
 opponent.
  Versus Mode again is everything you come to expect: This can either make the game incredibly easy 
 (if you're playing against your younger brother) or stupidly hard (if you're playing against your 
 older brother) .
  
  I've had a few matches on the Network Battle and it felt pretty hit and miss to me. The main problem 
 is that if you're playing someone with a bad internet connection, then the match really lags and 
 it just makes the game harder and frustrating... especially with some of the pro's online! I had 
 a few games with a good connection and this was fun, the Ranked Match mode i can see will be played 
 for years to come (until Street Fighter V) with the real hardcore players really building a rep 
 and kicking the crap out of people. I would suggest Amauteurs get online a. s. a. p before the servers 
 are flooded with only pro's.
  
  The controls are very very tight for a console game. It mixes the gameplay of the old Street Fighter 
 2 game and adds in a few new moves such as the focus attacks and splashes a fantastic artistic 
 style which both work very well. In terms of whats better between the PS3 and 360 pad, then definately 
 go for the PS3! The 360 pad is AWFUL for this game, almost to the point of unplayable. If you have 
 a 360 then i definately recommend you try your best to find and unload your wallet on an Arcade 
 Stick. The PS3 pad is playable with a much better D-Pad, but most of the hardcore players will 
 always prefer the Arcade Stick.
  
  
  
  Now, the graphics are bloody GORGEOUS! The game is just dripping with artistic style and it really 
 is beautiful to look at the character models and backgrounds when you're not getting fireballed. 
 The really bold colours and shadows add to the artistic edge, and almost gives it a cel-shaded 
 feel. The sound for me is, meh... I think this is the classic corny soundtrack that people are 
 accustom to when playing street fighter games. It brings in a blend of retro SNES styled tunes 
 and the characters have very over the top American accents. Luckily you can change it to Japenese 
 which sounds far better for fighters such as Ryu. One wierd inclusion the game are these anime 
 clips that follow the Arcade mode with your fighter. It's strange because the artistic style is 
 completely different from that of the actual game and i feel it wasn't really neccessary. Of course 
 you can skip them though.
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game! One of the best fighting games i've played and its definately 
 got me back into the genre. The modes and unlocks will have you playing this for months maybe years 
 to come, especially if you earn a reputation online. The artistic visuals are outstanding in some 
 points and you'll be open mouthed when seeing the minor details such as the facial animations of 
 the fighters when recieving a fierce blow to the head. This is already a classic in the making.
 
  
  
  Story: 7/10
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Graphics: 9/10
  Sound: 7/10
  Value: 10/10
  
  OVERALL: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chocolate1325
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:13 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter is a series that has been very popular over the years in Arcades and on consoles 
 so how does Street Fighter 4 stand is it any good.
  
  Characters 
  
  You get a choice of 16 characters to begin with they are some of the fans favourites like Ryu, Ken, Chun 
 Li, Guile, M Bison and a few more. There are also a few new characters such as Crimson Viper, Rufus, El 
 Funete and Abel. There are also a few unlockable characters from the Alpha games and Super Street 
 Fighter.
  
  Gameplay
  
  The gameplay is the same the moves for Ken, Ryu and so on as before and require the same sort of 
 button presses. There are new additions such as Super Combos where you have a Super Bar and when 
 it fills up you can unleash a powerful set of attacks but it doesn't always hit your opponent who 
 might block it or jump over you and then there is Ultra moves which can deal even more damage to 
 your opponents but they can be hard to pull off. There is a meter and when its full use the button 
 commands and hopefully it can swing the match in your favour because if not you stand a very good 
 chance of losing.
  
  Modes
  
  There is a training mode which lets you practice moves so you could basically just try out every 
 character in the game. It could be a good place to start for beginners to the game. There is an 
 Arcade mode where you fight about 8 fighters to complete the game and you can unlock certain characters 
 by doing this. Then there's Challenege mode which gives you a certain challenege like taking down 
 a certain number of fighters in a time limit. It gets harder as it goes along and that mode has 
 plenty of challeneges. Finally there's online play which lets you take on players from around the 
 world. The matches are easy to set up and you know if you have a good connection or not a green 
 connection equals should play perfectly and 1 bar equals it will lag and most likely diconnect. 
 It plays really well when in game and I haven't suffered from much lag when I have had a good connection. 
 Online play is a joy to play and you get Battle Points at the end so you lose points if you lose 
 and you gain points if you win. Also you can check how many games you have played online in Player 
 data to see how many matches you have played and won.
  
  Sound
  
  The opening song is annoying. The music is alright has some good songs and even a remix of Ryus 
 opening stage from Street Fighter 2 so overall okay.
  
  Graphics
  
  The graphics are nice and colourful. Ryu and Ken look amazing as do other characters. The levels 
 look amazing and nice beautiful battle arenas. The character designs and animations look overall 
 very impressive.
  
  Lastabilty
  
  This game should keep you busy for a while. It has so many modes. Online play is where most of 
 the Street Fighter fans will be playing though and is very addictive which will keep you coming 
 back for more.
  
  Overall Opinion
  
  Overall Street Fighter 4 is an amazing return for the Street Fighter series. The game has tons 
 of modes and achievements as well as unlockable characters and of course the best thing online 
 play. The game is so simple to play. It works perfectly with the PS3 controls. There is also the 
 possiblity of download content which could mean added characters and stuff. So overall this game 
 should keep you hooked for ages. It really is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sSubZerOo
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 8:22 am PT
Review:  Capcom is at its own tricks yet again by making a amazing fighting with the barebones of game modes.. 
 
  
  Graphics 10/10: The game looks amazing.. A serious upgrade from past Street Fighter games, both 
 character models and stages look great.. The effects such as fireballs also look impressive.. Though 
 I personally love the new art design, some don't. (Why people refuse to play games with cartoony 
 graphics will always be a mystery, is it insecurity possibily?) .. All and all the game is a great 
 lesson to other fighters that constantly put the same realistic approach that gets boring because 
 every one is doing it.
  
  Sound 10/10: The sound is great, though I have to say alot of the voice acting for some of the 
 characters are out of place.. Luckily you can turn them to the japanese varient. I suppose another 
 thing tha tbother people is the pop-like song at the beginning the game.. I honestly don't mind 
 it, though it can get annoying because thats all they play at menu/multiplayer areas.. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The core gameplay it self seems quite solid.. With the revenge meter raising up 
 as you take damage to do a ultra move, and the ex meter raises up as you do dmg gives you the ability 
 to do supers or EX moves.. EX moves imo are quite genious, they are a super move of your regular 
 move.. Take Ryu's move set for instance, a EX hurricane kick instead of hitting once and disrupting 
 the guy.. It will hit him 4 times and fly him across the screen doing significant damage.. The 
 character balancing seems to be quite balanced, though I have to admit I don't understand how El 
 Furete can be balanced.. He is entirely too fragile and does not do enough damage. Infact the only 
 way you really can get consistent wins with him is exploitation of a bug in his move set where 
 he can do a infinte combo... All in all though, you can do well just with all characters.. Newbs 
 be warned though, charge characters are many times harder to even get ok with.. Capcom hasn't made 
 any changes with that, so chances are the only good charge characters you will see will be ones 
 played by people who have been playing them for YEARS... Though luckily there is a large variety 
 of 25 characters, which is really immense for a non Vs game (such as Marvel Vs Capcom 2) .. The 
 characters for the most part are varied and each one is quite good.. Unfortantely if your a newb 
 or a average player to the Street fighter series you will most likely be cut off from half of the 
 roster because they are charge up characters.
  
  Singleplayer 7/10: Arcade mode is intact it also has a interesting multiplayer arcade mode, where 
 people can challenge you while your playing arcade singleplayer.. Unfortantely Capcom frustatring 
 enough is at its old tricks when it comes to past games and this one.. The severe lack of gameplay 
 modes, this is 2009, gamers need to demand more than just a arcade mode, a vs mode, and some kind 
 of trials mode for singleplayer.. To a non hardcore street fighter fan this will greatly reduce 
 its life span.. The cutscenes themselves are quite bad aside froma few (more for El Fuerte and 
 Zangief because they are hilarious) . Than again who honestly cared for the majority of the story.. 
 For the most part Street Fighter story has always been ridiculous for the most part game wise.. 
 it just gets worse as each new player you try out, people like Fei Long joins it because his movie 
 crew came under attack, and his movie was delay.. Yep thats it, quite original plot no?
  
  Multiplayer 6/10: Connection wise and huge population of players to fight them fast is great.. 
 Unfortantely that does not make a multiplayer great, infact that should be a given.. Unfortantely 
 Capcom didn't get the memo that they need a multiplayer outside of a 1990's game... As a PC gamer 
 I am just wondering wtf were they thinking.. I have played games in the mid 90s THE MID 90s! Have 
 more customization and choices.. Here you got.. Single fight or.. Single fight.. Thats it.. There 
 is no massive tournament mode.. There is no other unique gameplay mode or team mechanic.. Hell 
 there isn't even a SPECTATOR MODE AT RELEASE. This is unacceptable.. Perhapes they should have 
 taken notes from Super Smash Brothers Brawl with just the sheer amount of customization and game 
 modes.. I mean this just isn't acceptable. As it stands there needs to be a huge tournmanet mode 
 for both singleplayer/local and multiplayer.. I would like to see upwards to 64 people which you 
 can fill up with computer (random or set difficulty) and human.. Not flat out elimintation either 
 but losers brackets.. I mean Super Street Fighter 2 had this (not at this size though) , a game 
 of like 15 to 18 years old, and they havn't put it in sense.. There are also numerous other modes 
 they should have added.. 
  
  Now supposedly they will be releasing a new patch soon to add some functionality to multiplayer 
 and hopefully singleplayer game modes as well.. Furthermore I hope they do some tweaking to characters 
 such as el Furete.. In the end its a solid fighter that could have gotten a 10 by me and probably 
 the majority of professional critics if Capcom didn't make their typical half ass job of adding 
 bells and whisltes.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vae_victous
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 23, 2009 7:55 am PT
Review:  I have seen so many reviews where people having been rubbishing this game, i am an avid fighting 
 game fan and the street fighter series is by far the best i have seen. I've played the Tekken series 
 aswell as soul calibur, guilty gear and SNK and for me street fighter is the best this new street 
 fighter is excellent with beautiful anime style cutscenes, awesome clean cut gameplay and a vast 
 array of characters new and old the game is very challenging with an 8 star difficulty rating (8 
 being the hardest and 1 being the easiest) going through arcade can be very difficult and challenge 
 mode is just as hard trying to string together complicated combos to complete the challenge at 
 hand; for fighting game fans this is a must have, for everyone else the visuals of the characters 
 and backgrounds are simply amazing so there really is something for everyone in this game for people 
 that won't give this game the time of day i say that's their loss, the next gen version of street 
 fighter is a marvellous one, street fighter lives on and will always be the no.1 fighting game 
 out there SHINRYUKEN!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YamaBushi13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 4:11 am PT
Review:  I love SF4's story, M. Bison's ending is so interesting + Abel's. I pray in SF5 they use the Revenge 
 System, the Focus Attack and bring back the good ol' PARRY system from 3rd strike. That would be 
 an unbelievable game! I look forward to it. Roll on Street Fighter 5, don't make us wait to long!!!
 
  
  The game is more animated and humerous than it's previous titles. This is great as the characters 
 personality show more and you learn more about them. You are left wanting more after every ending, 
 Street Fighter 5 hopefully will quench your thirst! Just hope we don't have to wait to long.
  
  As mentioned in my 2nd paragraph, there has been more injected into the 'SF' which is its humour. 
 There hasn't been anything taken out which makes you feel that this is not what you paid for. The 
 timing of all the moves are the same, but beware of doing supers and getting caught in a throw 
 by the likes of Seth and Zangief *cheating BeeP*. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CrystalSnake
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 12:51 am PT
Review:  First things first! The graphics, yes they are great, especially if you like the whole anime look. 
 Both the old and the new characters look and move fantastic, they even make the recently SSF2T 
 HD remix look shabby and dated.
  But you already knew this game looks great! You've already seen the screenshots, watched the HD 
 trailers, and have no doubt read the countless reviews, all of which have several pages just telling 
 you how good the game looks.
  So how does this phoenix reborn actually fly? Well if you're like me, let's say, getting a little 
 more seasoned with each day. You'll remember this game all too well!! The memories of the countless 
 evenings after school, which you spent round at your friends pummelling your SNES pad till it hurt. 
 And then weekends, which you spent most of the day in a grubby video store; hammering away at the 
 buttons of the latest version of what was considered by many, the greatest fighting game of all 
 time. You'll remember the familiar sounds of the "Hadoken's" screaming from the door ways of nearly 
 every self respecting arcade in the country. Even if your were in a different country, in a totally 
 strange arcade you never had to look for this game. It was probably the only arcade cabinet with 
 15 people stood next to it, all itching to have a go at beating the guy, who just refused to get 
 of the player one stick. You know the GUY! He was just that little bit quicker than everybody else, 
 which in turn made everybody else that little bit more determined to beat him.
  So what exactly does my reminiscing have to do with Street Fighter 4? Everything!!! After all the 
 spit and polish, this is Street Fighter! This is exactly the same game! The single player, lets 
 face it, nobody ever really played SF for the single player experience. Character stories, yeah 
 their in there, and not the best you will ever see. You beat several randomly selected computer 
 opponents, before you get to the last guy SETH. Now this is definitely one of the games biggest 
 disappointments. You beat Seth the first round, and think ok not too bad. The second round begins, 
 and then you think "You Lose", what the hell? You see because Seth, during the transition from 
 round one to two, went shopping at the SNK school of final bosses. I mean this guy is cheap!!! 
 Special move after special move, countering everything you do, and then teleporting behind you 
 to perform a nice unblockable throwing manoeuvre. Honestly this will pretty much ruin your single 
 player experience with certain characters. I mean try beating Seth with Dhalsim on medium difficulty, 
 and you'll quickly want to smash your game pad, and your game disk whilst simultaneously banging 
 your head against the nearest brick wall. So be prepared to get so frustrated with the single player 
 that you will be tuning the difficulty down to easiest, just to beat Seth.
  Next we have the Multiplayer Mode. Yep you and your pals can once again grab a pad, substitute 
 the root beer for a real beer this time. And start arguing all over again, just who is better Ryu 
 or Ken? But then we have the Xbox Live mode, should be fun right? Well actually no! There is no 
 proper matching system in place here; you can set the filter to look for the most stable connection. 
 And guess what you get back five matches all from players with poor connections. The lobby tells 
 you whether the player has actually created a VS lobby or is playing the single player with the 
 Fight request mode enabled. So you try to connect to the guy hosting the VS lobby, only to get 
 a message saying the lobby is full. Fair enough, you try and connect to one of the guys with the 
 Fight Request mode on. And sure enough you get another message "unable to play", so you start another 
 search. Again more matches are found, however when you try and connect to any of the matches you 
 keep getting the same messages as before. Now get this, turn on Fight Request mode and start a 
 single player game. Suddenly you'll be lucky to get through a cpu opponent without being constantly 
 challenged by other players. Again many of the players the system matches you with, have little 
 to no connection strength showing next to their gamertag. However I have played many of these players 
 with alleged poor connections, and there has been no lag issues at all.
  
  To summarise, this game looks beautiful, plays like the Street Fighter we all know and love. Has 
 one of the most frustrating end of game bosses in history and some seriously strange multiplayer 
 issues. Perhaps with this little revival, Capcom may now finally grace us with the next instalment 
 of Street Fighter, as a reinvention of the franchise as opposed to a reiteration, full 3D anyone? 
 If Midway can do it I'm sure you can do it better Capcom!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Karimcheese
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 11:48 pm PT
Review:  Ever since SF IV was announced, fanboys have been carefully watching the development of Capcom's 
 latest installment in what may be the greatest fighting game series. We were all wary of how another 
 3D Street Fighter would play considering how uninspired the SF EX games were a decade ago. I'm 
 not saying the EX games were bad, they just didn't feel like Street Fighter is supposed to. Flash 
 forward to today, and we have what may be one of the best fighting games to grace the PS3 and 360 
 yet. The first thing one will notice is the amazing art style which is (like all the other SFs) 
 very much anime. All the colors are vibrant, every move looks crisp, and the characters look like 
 they have been doing roids for the past 9 years! regardless this is a perfect example of "eye candy." 
 Music has also been an integral part of the SF series. Every level theme, every cheesy one liner 
 lives in our memories. Capcom has brought back those classic tunes in remixed, up-to-date forms, 
 and they sound great and fans will definitely get nostalgic. Even the song that is played in the 
 menu screen gets you pumped up, at least in my opinion.
  
  Now we move on to the meat and potatoes, gameplay. If you know how to play the previous Street 
 Fighter games (especially the Alpha series) you will definitely be able to pick up and play right 
 away. All the moves/combos are the same as we remember them. We have the same Super Combo system 
 that the Alpha games introduced where you can unleash a more powerful version of an existing attack. 
 This time around they have introduced an "Ultra Combo" meter. I love this feature because it only 
 fills up when you get your ass beat. The more you get hit, the more full the meter gets, and thus 
 the more powerful the potential move is. When you do unleash it, its like watching poetry in motion, 
 assuming that your timing is right. This Ultra Combo ensures that no matter how down you are, one 
 technique can get you back in the game. Now, Ultra Combos take a little getting use to, but with 
 practice you'll get the hang of it. 
  
  Other tweeks in the game include a "focus attack" done by pressing the MK and MP buttons together 
 and being able to grab your opponent by pressing the LK and LP buttons at the same time similar 
 to other modern fighting games. There is a way to counter an opponents grab, but I find it difficult 
 to time it at times and certain characters (especially Zangief) are grab whores and will try to 
 throw or pile drive you every chance they get because the computer is cheap.
  
  Besides some balancing issues, I do have other complaints about this game. First of all, the new 
 characters ABSOLUTELY SUCK!!!! We have Abel the whiny French **** with amnesia, Crimson Viper who 
 is probably the most annoying female character ever to desecrate a SF game, El Fuerte the stereotypical 
 Mexican luchadore that Capcom decided to not spend more time giving a better name, and the extremely 
 obese American biker known as Rufus who is apparently a skilled Kung-Fu fighter?!?! Everybody has 
 their favorite character (s) so I really don't know many people who would adopt one of these uninspired 
 **** but its obvious Capcom tried to bring something new to the table just for the sake of saying 
 that they tried!
  
  Besides single player, there is also a Challenge, Time Attack, Trial, and online mode. The online 
 allows for ranked or unranked matches, but if you don't practice offline you will find it frustrating 
 to play against human players who obviously know how to exploit cheap moves and can defend extremely 
 well because they have nothing better to do than play this game all day. Getting into matches isn't 
 difficult but if you or your opponent have a bad connection, the match will be choppy. Regardless 
 you will spend most of your time playing this game online!
  
  It doesn't really matter what system you pick this game up for unless you have a controller preference 
 for fighting games (mine is the PS3) . If you are super hardcore you will probably buy an arcade 
 stick for it, but first rent the game before deciding to buy it. If you love SF IV like me then 
 you already committed to buying the game. Casual gamers should check it out as well because it 
 is quite engaging and I'm sure that any fan of fighting games can safely bet that they will have 
 some kind of fun with it. SF IV doesn't revolutionize the series or the genre for that matter, 
 but it does do what the fans wanted and in the end I guess that's all we we really wanted. It's 
 like the old saying goes, "if its not broken, don't fix it!" 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MeEatBrain
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:44 pm PT
Review:  By now if you're reading a video game website, you have an opinion about the Street Fighter series. 
 This game isn't going to change your mind either way. 
  If you're a Street Fighter fan, you're going to get exactly what you want. A great Street Fighter 
 game that possibly looks better than any game ever. You get the characters you love, looking better 
 than ever and a few new ones that look and play exactly the way you'd expect them to. 
  If you're not a Street Fighter fan, you're not missing anything. Sure, the game looks amazing, 
 but if you don't like the gameplay, what's the point? 
  What I'm trying to do is tell you that you're mind was probably made up whether of not you were 
 going to get this game, and I'm here to tell you to listen to your gut. If you like the series, 
 get it, if you don't like the other games, don't get caught up in the hype. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: firebladedx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  As you'd come to expect from Capcom, street fighter 4 (will now be known as SF4) , is just beyond 
 words.
  
  The Story:
  Assuming you unlock all the characters in order, the story unfolds by completing each arcade mode, 
 so instead of simply mashing through a "story" mode in one sitting, it is devided up for each of 
 the characters allowing you to experiance it in small doses so the fighting is broken up nicely. 
 My only complaint at this point is the cut scenes and anime sequences are far too short.
  Maybe increaseing it to something like 3-5mins instead of 1-2 mins it would become more immersive, 
 but at the end, this is street fighter not final fantasy or zelda, if we wanted all that story 
 BS we'd be playing them.
  
  Gameplay:
  The mechanics have not changed in the slightests even from the old days of (when I at least) used 
 to play SF2 on the megadrive, the second you pick up that joypad it all comes flooding back. The 
 specials and ulta specials take a bit of practise but the reward is there showing a incredibly 
 impressive combo of destruction which rains down on your enemy (especially fun online) , but mess 
 up and it is possible to succumb to one yourself.
  The gameplay itself has slowed down slightly opposed to some of the "hyper" rates of play seen 
 in older games, mainly due to the counter/charge attack which can be used as a temporary shield 
 which will absorb one hit and then abosrb the damage, allowing a counter attack to be launched. 
 This can really make the difference between winning and losing a game slightly more advanced games.
 
  
  Graphics:
  The colour scheme, and lighting are done to a tee. The focus attacks are especially pleasant on 
 the eye with a flurry of black "blood" ill call it, showering outwards from a succesful focus attack. 
 I will admit, its not perfect, character animation seems somewhat block in the sense that it is 
 clearly visible to see the different sections moving as individual objects instead of a character 
 model (mainly talking to zangief here, but we'll forgive him) . The characters all come with various 
 different outfits which is a nice change from.... red.... or blue..... (ken for example) .
  
  Sound:
  The sound is a treat, each hit charge attack, combo, ultra all create the feel of 
 real immersion, instead of that old "smack, smack, smack" sound im sure many remember from the 
 older games, they are tailer made to the point they just complete it.
  ...... yea we all thinking it.... the "high school musical" ( as i call it) sound track. Well its 
 not exactly the most badass theme in the world, but it does get better approx 1:20 into the song 
 the badass makes a triamphant return in true street fighter style delivering a remix of the original 
 anthem which is music to our ears.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Erm, ive been writing a while getting lazy now. Offline = one on one, what you'd come to expect, 
 nothing like seeing your freind's face when he/she thinks hes about to "finally beat you" then 
 pulling out the ultra and destroying their hopes and dreams... good times.
  Online, is again the same without, well the small joys of local vs. But instead you are treated 
 to various little icons, titles and all sorts of lovely awards for winning games, playing certain 
 amounts of games etc which allow you to customise your name with, so for example you could go for 
 "Not in the face" (off course im gonna hit u in the face with that, pft seriously) or "Master of 
 all".
  The ranking system is very similar to that off mario kart wii (wierd reference i know) , but it 
 works in the same way, win a game, win points, lose a game lose points. If you have 0 points, you 
 have nothing to lose.
  There is no REAL way of telling who you are up against so the best bet is to see if you reconise 
 the icon/title. If you do, well chances are they in the same league as you. If it looks pretty 
 badass, well theres always next time?
  
  Downloadable Content:
  Nothing yet, but it has been promised in the near future.
  
  My overall score:
  9.5 PURELY 
 because of the lack of story, considering they made a MOVIE on the game with the pre-order pack 
 (which i was too poor to buy =/ ) I think the least they could have done is added a few more scenes 
 in. Come on it cant be that hard. So yea, hope you guys like it. If you have the game and like 
 it good stuff, look for me on the PSN frampo4, if not..... theres always *ugh* tekken. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: deuketc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 2:20 pm PT
Review:  ill keep it short and sweet.... simply because i have to go back and play more street fighter... 
 :)
  
  - Online is very good, not half the problems ive seen with other ps3 games. although its not perfect 
 as some connections do have a bit of lag which can effect gameplay (only my experience) and not 
 really a problem with the game itself.
  - So many options of play other than arcade, trials, unlockables the works will keep you interested 
 for months as far as i can tell
  - graphics are very good, fluent smooth gameplay, sound effects OMG!!
  Hook this game up to a 
 good HDTV and descent sound system and your set.
  
  I really cant think of any flaws with this great release. if you like fighting games, seen the 
 demos and are thinking about picking this one up.. think no more, its worth every cent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueZ06
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 1:39 pm PT
Review:  Easily the best in the long running series to date. The graphics are amazing on both systems and 
 sound is fantastic as well. The anime prologues and ending are unbelievably cheesy though. I found 
 myself cringing at times they were so bad. But seriously, I bought the game because it's a great 
 fighter not because I wanted some great anime experience. I enjoyed the way it really goes back 
 to the basics as a fighter. Not like some of the past, "what was the 20th button press in that 
 35 hit combo again?", iterations before. Definitely a must-buy if you like fighters. Plus it has 
 quite a bit of replay with all the unlockables that you can attain. Titles and pics are pretty 
 fun to mess with if you play online at all. I've seen complaints of slow feedback when playing 
 online but haven't experienced personally yet. Could just be lucky so far with good connections 
 though. Even if you never touch online play it's still the best of the series and a must have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sfkm2
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I post a blog about the years I been through with this series and now I finally got Street Fighter 
 IV. Hmmm now to the points I need to get to on this game. The characters. Awesome. I think I expand 
 my signature character list now. Why? Because of Capcom adding those four new characters. One of 
 those new characters is on my list. C. Viper. Excellent Character to use and I think she easy to 
 take down the Boss. Anyway. Back to the points of this game. All the characters are awesome. Lol. 
 The Boss of this game. Wow. Capcom. For some reason you made another Gill in my opinion. Which 
 is bad and good. Good is the challenge. The bad is that he's another Gill. But still. The good 
 takes out the bad. So just enjoy fighting against Seth. Btw, tough boss. The feel when you play 
 Street Fighter IV for some reason is weird. It's like a new dimension has enter in Street Fighter 
 series. Lol. But that's good. It's not bad. The Ultra combos. OMG are amazing. The Focus attack, 
 nice. Capcom did a excellent job for Street Fighter IV. The online mode is pretty cool. If you 
 want to face me (on the PS3) username is at my profile. Again, the only thing I don't like is Seth's 
 cheapness.
  
  Funny thing I notice was that M. Bison pic when you pick him, doesn't seem happy. He's probably 
 mad that he doesn't face Gill in this game. Probably Capcom going make a Street Fighter 5 to let 
 that happen. Gill vs M. Bison. lol To tell GS and Capcom if they reading this, Let Street Fighter 
 5 start out with a bang. You know. The ending of Gill where he parts the sea or whatever. And all 
 the street fighters are there, let M. Bison appear from Hell and behind Gill. 
  
  Anyway. That's my review of Street Fighter IV. THANK YOU CAPCOM! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BRIANinDIGITAL
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 11:42 am PT
Review:  Almost, but not quite is a great way to describe this game. It is a fun game that looks good during 
 game-play. The game-play itself is flawless with no glitches or irregularities. I am not a tournament 
 player by any means so I could not notice any real or innovative differences from the previous 
 street fighter's, which is not necessarily a bad thing. The downside of this game seems to be that 
 it lacks attention to detail in several areas. First the online play seems incomplete. There needs 
 to be a way to pair people up with good signal strentgh as I am always fighting someone with a 
 slow connection. In addition i wish there was a better lobbying and party system. A tournament 
 mode should have been included. Overall the game seems to be a little thin. The game needs more 
 substance. Maybe a more creative training feature could have been incorporated. I would still recommend 
 the game for anyone who likes fighting games because the fun factor is still high but a little 
 more effort could have made the game perfect. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Morlune
Rating: 3.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  I had really high expectations. Mostly because every review has been awesome. Sadly I was very, 
 very disappointed. And I have to ask: What does this game have, that any other fighting game doesn't?
 
  
  Gameplay: 2/10
  2D fighting really isn't as fun as it used to be. Not after games like Tekken have introduced us 
 to a style of playing that is far more intricate. The fact that none of there characters has more 
 than just a few tricks, and that these tricks are nearly impossible to perform, doesn't make it 
 any better. To me it ended up being a pure button-mashing game. The different characters storylines 
 was another disappointing aspect. Are they made this bad just to remind us of Street Fighter 2 
 (which also has a bad storyline) ? I also hate the fact that if you lose one single battle it will 
 take at least one minute before you can start a new one because there is no way to just continue. 
 Instead you have to choose your character again, wait for the loading again and... Let's just say 
 that it is a lot of waiting if you lose. So don't lose!
  
  Graphics: 4/10
  The characters looks great. I love the fact that they have kept the inhuman muscles. It looks like 
 SF2. Which is also a bad thing since this game is many generations newer than SF2 and it could 
 ahve looked sooo much better (without necessarily loosing the SF2 charm for that reason) .
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Nostalgic!
  
  All in all it is a bad game with good music. Rent it and 
 have fun with it for an hour. Then return it and never think about it again! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kodmani
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:41 am PT
Review:  I have long waited for this game and it turned out to be better than I expected. Capcom have worked 
 their butts off for this and they deserve it all. (can't curse, against gamespot policy) .
  
  Graphics:
  WOW and I mean WOW !! its like okami decided to make street fighter IV. All the 
 characters look good, emotional expressions when they get hit, very funny looking and yet still 
 there are some annoying faces out there.
  
  Characters:
  The classics are still there. The new characters are good, have awesome moves and somehow connect 
 in the story.
  
  Game play:
  Still have not changed. Same combos as before except the new focus mode they added to the game. 
 Could be very helpful if mastered.
  
  Multi-player:
  Its fun both local and online. Suffers from lag sometimes when you play with a bad connection, 
 like it takes a while to make a combo and you have to do it slower for it to work.
  
  PS: I know some people in the reviews have complained about how hard it is in the arcade mode. 
 If you cannot beat arcade, how will you ever beat players in online mode .. huh !! I have been 
 playing and training and I have come to play arcade mode very easily and properly and yet I have 
 not beaten the last boss yet ... which means I need more training.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jai2882
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 22, 2009 10:36 am PT
Review:  Firstly I just want to say that, it's great to have Streetfighter back! 
  I first discovered StreetfighterII at a mates house many years ago. 
  I just HAD to have it! 
 I was an instant fan. 
  That Christmas I got a StreetfigherII Turbo SNES package, This was the best Christmas I can remember!
 
  I felt the same way I did on Christmas morning, when I picked up my copy of StreetfighterIV. I 
 couldn't wait to 'get on it'
  I cetainally wasn't dissapointed.
  StreetfighterIV has really brought back the series into the next generation.
  You can really 
 appriciated the work and thinking that has gone into this game. 
  There is a well balance of characters, none too similar, and I don't miss any of the previous characters 
 that have been left out. The animation and art work is fantastic! I sometimes 'take my eye off 
 the game' because am fascinated by the 'backgroud'
  The fighting system is amazing. It has made the series evermore tactical, I still havn't mastered 
 it, but will have great fun practicing, which has made playing on-line a real treat.
  The 'Super' and 'Ultra Combo' animations really hold the game together, meaning, they keep you 
 'in the game'. There is a real sence of fluid when it comes to the gameplay.
  The only negative feeling I have about SteetfighterIV, is that I found The Boss Seth far to differcult! 
 I was almost to the point of switching off my PS3 through the stress! It took me nearly an hour 
 of attempts to beat him!
  But maybe I need more Pactice?!
  Overall this a MUST HAVE game! It ticks all the boxes. 
  My only concern is that I will be spending 
 too much time on this fantastic game!
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HershalCrusto
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 22, 2009 9:51 am PT
Review:  Before I get into the review, I must admit, I am not a huge fight game fan, unless it is a sport 
 like boxing and hopefully soon a UFC game. But I also have to say I played a lot of Street Fighter 
 II as a youngster and was very excited to give this game a whirl. 
  
  Street Fighter IV is a lot of fun, and there is a lot of moves to learn for all the fighters. There 
 is a good variety of difficulties, so anybody could play it, even someone like me who hasn't played 
 a fighter since, probably Street Fighter II. The graphics and presentation are actually pretty 
 cool, and the fighters all look like they just finished a big cycle on the roids (I LIKE) . There's 
 a lot of color to the game and its pretty neat how they put a little story with each character 
 in the arcade mode.
  
  With all that possitive being said, I have to say I've played for around 15 hours and I'm starting 
 to get a little bored, and my thumbs are getting sore. The game was a lot of fun at first, and 
 I would give it a 9.5 if I had played it for under 10 hours. But I've played a little more so I 
 have to give it an 8.0. I am definitely happy I rented it and didn't buy it, that being said it 
 was probably the best rent I've done in a while.
  
  In conlusion if you are a fight game fan, I'm assuming this game is a must buy. But if you're not 
 it is definitely a game you need to play, so lets call it a must rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackKnightOfH8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 22, 2009 4:31 am PT
Review:  I'll try and keep this pretty short. SF4 is a game that all SF fans should give a shot. While it 
 may not be to all of their likings it's still a nice addition to the series. The graphics are pretty 
 good and the animations aren't bad, but some of them do leave me wondering. The Hurricane Kick 
 just looks off to me. Still it's not enough to turn people away. What most likely will turn people 
 away is the AI. For some reason instead of a challenging AI, Capcom seems to have gone with a "cheezy" 
 AI. Here are just a few examples. 
  
  C. Viper will always nail you with her "projectile" attack nearly everytime. No matter where you're 
 standing it's sure to come up right under you. 
  
  Seth, teleporting boss syndrome at it's worse. Not to mention he often loves to do nothing but 
 throw you. Just get off the ground? He's throwing you. Did he just teleport behind/infront of you? 
 Thrown. Start that motion for a special or super move? He's most likely going to throw you and 
 cancel it. I've had matches i've lost to him because all he did was teleport in my face and throw 
 me. That's not challenging it's cheezy.
  
  I won't go into detail for all the characters, but be warned. The CPU loves to basically destroy 
 you if you're knocked down near a corner. They will always have some way to hit you as soon as 
 you're on your feet by a throw, Rufus' cyclone, Seth's vacuum or C. Viper's projectile just to name 
 a few.
  
  Bottomline, if you love SF and don't mind an overly aggressive and cheezy CPU you'll love this 
 game. But, if you prefer more challenge than cheese or easily have fits of "NERDRAGE" you might 
 want to pass on this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the8thsin
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 21, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  King of the hill?
  
  GAMEPLAY
  
  Classic SF gameplay including EX, EX cancel, Parries, Supers, and more with a few things added 
 and a few taken away.
  
  Ultra Moves are a nice edition which help to make the combat more intense as when they land they 
 can drastically change a bout, on the flip side you could argue that too much of the game focuses 
 on these moves and not on the build up towards them. 
  
  The new parry/counter is a nice edition to the defensive approach and when used well can lead into 
 a combo as well as helping regenerate a small portion of health - all though at a gamble of being 
 hit and losing a lot more. However this also has a negative side in that the parry is pointless 
 against any combo or move where there are at least to fast consecutive hits as the second will 
 hit before the counter from the parry can connect. Simply put this is a dumbed down version of 
 the SF3 parry system and in many respects fails due to the in-ability to chain parry.
  
  Now although SF4 has only had a couple of things taken away - not keeping the SF3 parry system 
 in is a huge let down. 
  This is what seperated the boys from the men and created some truly mesmerising fights. Parrying 
 someones super was an art in itself and added a level of depth to SF that had never been seen, 
 if you havnt seen the parry system or played SF3 then go to the following link 
  
  http://www. youtube. com/watch? v=YnEWSO6NrQo&feature=related
  
  Balancing issues also come into 
 account at times with Ken, Sagat and Zangief being pretty overpowered and the characters relying 
 on Charge attacks: Bison, Guile etc. being slightly underwhelming.
  
  All in all I would say that bar droppping the parry system and balance issues the Gameplay has 
 maintained and in many areas excellend on the traditional SF formula.
  
  GRAPHICS
  
  From the off SF4 has been one for the eye - distinct in its look and compelling in its execution, 
 the facial animations in particular stand out. In an industry currently obsessed with the colour 
 grey its refreshing to see a game that's like its gameplay bold and forceful in its approach using 
 a palate that looks to inspire rather than imitate. Moves are flashy, Supers extravagant and Ultras 
 breathtaking in all their zoomed in slow down glory and for a spectator in can be intoxicating 
 - in a good way. 
  The characters bounce and flow - all unique in their approach with only a few similar in their 
 execution.
  The same cannot be said for the backgrounds which unfortunately lack the same finesse and to be 
 honest all the positives of the rest of the game. They are uninspired, repetitive and over familiar.
 
  
  SOUND
  
  In all honest im not sure what happened here, something has obviously gone a stray as the sound 
 from music to voice overs is extremely poor. As soon as it was possible to change all the vocals 
 to Jp they were changed. Announcers in all games other then sports should be shot. Long gone are 
 the days of the robotic Perfect and they are missed.
  The lowest point of the sound tho surely has to go the music from that otherwise flawless intro 
 - why? why would they do this?
  
  DEPTH 
  
  There is a surprising amount to do in SF4 both off and online, challenges are a welcome addition 
 as are titles and icons online with unlockables being thrown at you from all angels. 
  As for the depth in gameplay although it adds to the fantastic formula of SF I feel that it is 
 rather a side step than a forward one in this area.
  
  MULTI PLAYER
  
  Offline it is as you would expect - tense, fun and full of banter.
  Online is in most aspect 
 similar - when it works. At the time of writing iv played over 100 hundred online games through 
 the Ranking and the system is poor and laggy - more often then not you will lag and in a game where 
 a frame can be the difference between victory and defeat its a sad thing to see. 
  As well as this the pairing can be wildly off from fighting people well above your ability to well 
 below - This really needs to be addressed.
  A final note of little consequence is the amount of people playing as Ken,
  I see Ken 80% of 
 the time online which is rather dis-stressing as the cast is probably the strongest yet and to 
 see this happening defies the point of innovative charter design. 
  
  CONCLUSION 
  
  I feel that SF4 has cut off her nose to spite her beautiful face. With their insistence on having 
 nothing related to SF3 from characters bar 4 to the select of specials and (once again) flawless 
 parry system they have tarnished what could have been a "perfect" fighter.
  
  GAMEPLAY 8/10 
  GRAPHICS 9/10
  SOUND 4/10
  DEPTH 7/10
  MULTI PLAYER 9/10
  ONLINE 7/10
 
  
  TOTAL 8/10
  
  Thanks for reading 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WelBluVid
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2009 8:51 am PT
Review:  This is definitely a game to master because rookie button mashing will get you killed son! LoL 
 Big step-up from the original SF anything! You'll definitely find new combos and a great storyline 
 that will keep your full attention throughout this games play sessions. Chun Li & the rest of the 
 crew are back & stronger then ever! They didn't just give you a combo super attack meter that builds 
 when you're wiping the floors w/many of the random noobs but! & I quote...
  
  They gave us a revenge meter that doesn't take to long to build up & get us back into the fight 
 when we're getting our bells seriously rung by a strong opponent! Once again & you just might here 
 me say this again but this is the best SF in the series, other games will follow suit! The game 
 rocks, it's sick! All the good stuff peeps! Now everyone post up your gamertags, I did because 
 the online play is definitely where it's at! 
  
  Once you clean everyone out of your living area/bedroom/basement whereever your system is setup 
 at. Come online & please don't run out the room when you see me! Muhahahahahahahaha! Let's get 
 it on! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Seamecca
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  If you are expecting to enjoy this game right out of the box you are in for a big disappointment. 
 I love the gameplay but it's retarded how much time you have to waste to get to the special characters. 
 You have to beat the game with everyone, get ultra finishes, perfects? FOR AKUMA? FOR GOUKEN? It's 
 taken me days, even with the easiest difficulty and one round games. Even on the easiest difficulty 
 it's too hard at times. And i'm no amateur street fighter player, it's just ridiculous. NO cheat? 
 NO shortcut? In most other street fighters he's available right away. Why do I have to spend several 
 days just to get a special character? Really stupid. Capcom didn't think about the generation of 
 players that now have jobs, children, LIVES, and can't waste their time playing Street Fighter 
 all day just to get a special character (that's always been available in the past) Other than that 
 everything is great. The intro animations are stupid. But yes, this little thing, which is a big 
 thing to me, makes this game a 5.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iCondemned
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 7:21 am PT
Review:  Really though... the game is completely hard from the beginning, but I'm not saying that the game 
 is bad. I gave the game a good rating. The graphic looks amazing from the slow-mo, the fighting, 
 and the Ultra Combo sense. The only bad thing is the amazingly bad anime cut sense from the beginning, 
 and end of each character in Arcade mood.
  
  The controller is quite "bad" if you're using a regular controller for the PS3, or Xbox 360... 
 well quit it because it will do you no good. The game is only intended for the joystick "ONLY!" 
 If you want to do perfect moves, the combos correctly, and use your ultra moves when ever you need 
 it the most. YOU MUST GET THE JOYSTICK, the regular controller will leave you doing something else.
 
  
  Mentioning about the difficulty about this game. You will start out on Medium, and as you go to 
 your 3rd fight. The game will get absolutely HARD as a mo-fo. For beginners, it might take like 
 8 tries (even more if you are really that bad at fighting games) . There are eight fights total, 
 and the 7th one is your rival. Once you reach to the boss (Seth) you might as well PRAY you can 
 beat him. All I can tell you is to be patience and do NOT rush in. Once you kill him, and try to 
 play the game on HARDEST! It's pretty standard and easy. He plays some what like a medium.
  
  Overall: the game is fun, and quick. The graphic is BEAUTIFUL, but the difficulty is insane. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dollar75
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2009 4:05 am PT
Review:  Its a safe assumption to say that I've played alot of Street Fighter in my time. Walking in the 
 rain for 25 minutes to play SFII in the local arcade when I was 15, buying the SFII pack on the 
 SNES on Christmas day and frustrating my parents by sneaking up to play it. Spent countless hours 
 on Alpha 3 on the PSone and PSP. And now we get to the next gen offering, SF IV. A game that I've 
 waited for for about a year. And I guess like most gamers, you can get abit nervous as to what 
 its going to turn out like, a hit or a miss. Thankfully, this is a big hit!
  
  Gameplay:
  If you've played alot of Street Fighter, this game is very easy to pick up and do the same combos 
 you've done in other versions of the game, the handling of the characters is spot on. 
  Like the Alpha series, there is a combo meter down the bottom, one is a revenge gauge and a super 
 combo gauge. They both work in opposites, the revenge goes up when you're getting hit, whereas 
 the super combo goes up when you make contact. This means that if you are getting hammered in the 
 corner, you'll eventually be able to get out of it by executing an ultra combo, which is visually 
 impressive and is always good bragging rights if you execute it on your friends! Now although this 
 may balance the fights up a little, you still have to know how to execute the move and get the 
 timing spot on. The moves are the same as the ones on the Alpha series, so if you've put alot of 
 time into that, its no problem. However, for beginners this becomes more difficult, so even if 
 their meter is full, it poses no threat. To level the playing field, the disability function works 
 very well.
  
  My online career hasn't been too impressive in other games, so I was a little apprehensive about 
 going online. The network fights are very good, no lag unless the connection is bad. I have played 
 a friend with a 512k internet connection and it was perfect. The ranking matches though don't seem 
 to have very good connection, but this only seems to be an issue with ranked matches, not general 
 player matches (these don't go towards your online battle points) . When you select a player match, 
 you can select someone of your ranking and this seems to have worked well. I'm not getting smashed, 
 infact I'm holding my own. 
  
  Graphics
  The only way I can describe the graphics is that its a meatier version than previous editions. 
 The characters are very big and detailed. 
  
  *review not finished*
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ckboy221
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is exactly what it should be, visually stunning and packed with fun things to do. I love 
 the fact that you now have 2 special finishing move gauges and each fill up in their own unique 
 way. one for damage u have taken and the other for damage you have given/special moves you did. 
 The gameplay is perfect because you can adjust your difficulty according to how good you are. The 
 ONE thing that let me down was the lack of characters. Street fighter alpha had TONS of people 
 you could play with. this one has 25 if im not mistaken. for this game to have been a 10 it woulda 
 needed a few more people. Evil Ryu woulda been great to add but Gouken was awesome. first time 
 i ever saw him in a SF game and hes insane! All in all this game is def amazing. 
  
  P. S. they should make a marvel vs capcom 3 because everyone will buy it!! i actually bought mvsc 
 2 a long long time ago for 10 bucks used and when i sold it to gamestop they bought for 20 so i 
 thought i made a good deal. that game is worth 150-200 EASYYY now. feel soooo stupid =/
  
  psn - moe215 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxZiggyxx
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:25 pm PT
Review:  The Long-Awaited game, Capcom brings you Street Fighter back after so many years.
  
  As a big fan of Street Fighter, I've been waiting so long for this game to come back and now Street 
 Fighter IV is finally here for 2009. 
  
  I bought this game right away on its release date. After trying it out and from unlocking all the 
 characters, I must say that I'm really impressed. The character models look amazing! Graphics are 
 just right for this game and the new boss ''Seth'' is a strong character, he's a real pain once 
 you get to play against him but I like how he is combined with other character's moves. All the 
 super and ultra moves from each characters look beautiful to look at. In my opinion, this is the 
 best fighting game so far and I hope Capcom keeps bringing this title . I'm looking forward to 
 another Street Fighter game and hoping that I won't have to wait long years again. 
  
  This is a must have for all the SF fans. Don't miss it ! 
  
  10/10
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: anime_penguin69
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  If you are new to this game, you might just want to pass it up. Its too hard. I am pretty much 
 a new player, I played a couple Street fighter games in the past, but never got any good at them. 
 Nevertheless playing this game has brought nothing but frustration and a near broken controller. 
 I would spend time in practice mode making sure that i could do all the special moves when i wanted. 
 Then I go to arcade mode, and I seem to have trouble pulling them off. Not only that, the difficulty 
 in SFIV is so hard its rediculous. Even on Very Easy I cant make it to the last boss. I really 
 want to unlock all the characters, especially fei long. Its just too hard, and i get very pissed 
 off playing this game. I really would hate to have to spend hours and hours of my time in training 
 mode to get good with character so i can unlock characters. I rather spend that time mastering 
 one character's moves and combos to fight with online. Oh well.... big letdown. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: noxyde
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:38 pm PT
Review:  I play Street Fighter since it came out... and this one... has nothing to do with the REAL street 
 fighter... moves are easy to do (PS3) but if you play against the CPU it doesen't matter... he 
 grabs you whenever he wants, even if im at the beginning of a "shoryuken"... another disappointing 
 thing i experienced against "Balrog" (European version) ... if you do Hadookens while he's charging 
 the punches, you won't catch him... so the time you need to get back in guard is the time he will 
 punch you in the face... and even if you get the time to get back, dock and throw a low kick... 
 it doesen't matter, you won't touch him, but he will touch you... Even to grab the opponent is 
 f**king hard...
  Why do i have to get mad to play a game i know since i was almost a baby?!?
  I'll keep playing 
 SFHD... and tomorrow i'll bring back this new one in the store.
  Damn, is it so hard to make games with good gameplay?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  First I want to say that I am a lifelong Street Fighter series fan. As most of you are. I really 
 enjoyed this game so far. I'm going to break down my ratings like this.
  
  Music: I have to say the music in this game is pretty good. It reminds me of theme music from late 
 80's to early 90's action movies. Just listen to the opening theme song, "Indestructible", and 
 you'll see what I mean. Most stages have old rock background music with the exception of Seth's 
 stage. (10.0)
  
  Gameplay: The game suffers here a little. I say this only because it is hard to execute a lot of 
 the more impressive super moves with the button layout on a SixAxis controller. This is one of 
 those games in which you'll have to buy an arcade style controller in order to master all moves. 
 I'm assuming that most of us still use only the SixAxis controllers here. If not and you're a more 
 hardcore gamer with all the neat PS3 accessories, ignore this rating. (8.5)
  
  Graphics: I like the new graphics. Great use of the PS3's abilities. The movies look great too. 
 The opening sequence made my brother's jaw drop. It is clear that the makers of this game wanted 
 to focus in on visual upgrades to the series. I hope they keep the new look. I still want to see 
 this game somehow be converted into a 3D fighter. (10.0)
  
  Online Play: Some people have experiences lags in their connection, and of course like any game 
 this would bring down the quality of playing online. So far I have had pretty good connections. 
 But I'm not a hardcore player so I can't really say if there's any lag at all. I'm sure there's 
 some, but I haven't noticed the game jumping and I have never been cut off a server (which happened 
 to me oftern in Call Of Dutry) . (10.0 - thus far)
  
  Replayability: With all the hidden characters and trophies to be unlocked and earned I say this 
 game should be exciting enough for at least a few months. I'm not a player who spends more than 
 2-3 hours on a game in the same day so this game (and the next Killzone) should hold me over until 
 the next hit game comes out in the summer. (10.0)
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dcr305
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 12:02 pm PT
Review:  I've been playing street fighter since sf2 back in 91-92 in the arcade when i a young pup in this 
 world. SFIV is great, excellent, worth the wait, etc. But there is something missing. It seems 
 they pulled a madden 2004 with the offensive being way amped up and not that much defense. SF3 
 was the madden 2005 of the street fighter series with the parrying. So i realize they probably 
 wanted to make it funner for people with all the flashy moves, but i miss just the option of turtling 
 just to get your bearings especially online against somebody you've never played or seen before. 
 Or parrying that dork to show who knows the moves and the people who actually know what they are 
 doing. Your basically forced to rush into battle and just hope you know all the moves of both the 
 characters. And whats up with everybody trying to beat the game on easy or very easy to get all 
 the characters? What happened to everybody? It seems everybody wants all the characters without 
 actually earning them. Then some people are actually complaining they can't beat Seth on very easy 
 which is downright pitiful in my opinion. I thought we all got this game for the challenge, not 
 just to cheat our way basically to all the characters. Just my opinion.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: neock2003
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 11:07 am PT
Review:  Never have I've been so happy to play a fighting game in a long time, as good a Street Fighter 
 4. It has a great balance of single player and multiplayer. If you don't count Zangief, and that 
 baster Sith, the characters were all well put together, and well balanced. The fighting system 
 is simple but well put together, My only 2 gripes would have to be the lack of tournament mode, 
 and the lack of some of the characters. Don't get me wrong I've get to play my favorate character 
 Cammy, but no Evil Ryu WTF. I can almost guarantee that Capcom would have us pay for the new character 
 and extra modes as an downloadable contend, but oh well, if that is the case then Ill be looking 
 forward to seeing many upgrades to this game. Thank you Capcom for not screwing this up like Midway 
 did with MK Vs DC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gearjammer188
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 20, 2009 10:10 am PT
Review:  When i do a Review and score a Game i always try to be upfront and not try to be a super over heated 
 fanboy , Street Fighter 4 is the best looking Fighting Game i have ever seen, I been playing Fighting 
 Games all the way back to the Neo-Geo SNK Days, Music in Street Fighter 4 is Great, But here comes 
 some down sides, Seth is a cheap Boss at times he will do so many Combos- You wont know what hit 
 you - then you are Dead, Everything for Seth comes off Fast he will over whelme you then it seems 
 you dont even have time to get your stuff off and the fight is over, After 20 rounds of this its 
 not fun no more, Plus i think Seth is a dumb choice for the last Boss, Online play Most people 
 will pick Ken then do the same move over and over again, I want to have a nice Fight and have fun 
 like Mix things up, Not someone learning some killer move then use that over and over again. After 
 about 1 hour of this its boring, Street Fighter 4 is worth a buy its nice to see the classic fighters 
 back. But its a game with Balance troubles, Lot of replay value . About it for my Review thanks. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SkidzoTM
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  Of course, when SF Alph serie came out it looked like the street fighters could not get any better 
 in the future...
  
  God were we wrong! The new Street fighter 4 is simply a masterpiece. The physics of the fights 
 is just amazing, the graphics are insanely well rendered with the new gens consoles and, finally, 
 we have a great story (for a street fighter mind you) WITH ALL THE CINEMATICS FOR EVERY CHARACTERS 
 when you begin a new arcade mode with one of them.
  
  Also, this time when can count on 4 new characters with a style of the own, and some of them are 
 very intersting, especially for the newcomer El Fuerte.
  Moreover, the fact that we have a 1on1 online option is a great way to test your skills against 
 other skilled fighters!
  
  Even if you're not a fighter fan, you need to play this game because it'll probably make you a 
 fan! So if you are not afraid of a good challenge run to the store and get your copy fast before 
 they are old out like the collector's edition!
  
  SkidzoTM a. k. a The Microplay Dude
  Montreal, Canada 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lirikalg
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2009 7:43 am PT
Review:  I have waited far too long for this game. Whether its because im a Street Fighter fan or because 
 im a Beat-em-up fan i dont know.. but for people who liked street fighter.. u WILL like this!.. 
 alot of people say that this game is hype but i dont believe so. i think capcom have deliverd this 
 game very well..
  
  it has a nice roster.. the gameplay alothough slightly slower than normal, feels alot more amped 
 up due to the combos that you can pull off.
  Howevere it must be said.. to fully survive in this game old street fighter gamers will have to 
 adapt to the new combos and focus attacks to stand a real chance online.
  
  the only flaws i saw in the game is that maybe the music could have been a bit better..
  
  
 apart from that.. fighting game lovers will enjoy this thoroughly... haters of the series wil put 
 it down and nit-pick at it but dont believe THEIR hype and dont let them dissuade you otherwise.. 
 definitnly worth a go! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tkdhotshot
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 20, 2009 5:08 am PT
Review:  Street fighter IV! two words... Simply amazing! 
  
  Finally a street fighter that offers the most basic player and the most advanced player equal opportunity! 
 From the basics and normality you would expect from any street fighter game this one goes above 
 and beyond! With new EX moves, familiar super and power moves and the addition of a double sided 
 special bar Capcom has pulled out all the stops.
  
  Graphics wise this game to me is stunning! a clear step up on all 2D fighting games. Fro executing 
 super moves to just plain old fighting everything looks gorgeous.
  
  The fighting engine has been tweaked perfectly to incorporate cancelers, armor breaks, Ultra moves, 
 super moves, chain combos (New feature :D) and charging smash attacks. This game takes a step above 
 all next generations console fighting games.
  
  The Story mode lacked in well the story. With only brief looks at the characters past/present/future 
 events. Each story mode for each players has a short anime style beginning which to me is amazing 
 (all hail Anime) but if the new younger players picked up the game started with the character everyone 
 knows aka Ryu then they would still be asking.... What just happened?... 
  
  New and Old characters are all bought back with the basic 8 ryu, ken, bison etc etc etc with some 
 new faces C. viper, Abel and 4 more! Gouken is brought into his first official street fighter after 
 being named through out all street fight 2 as either shen long or goutestsu (aka Gouken and akuma's 
 master) This new character brings a new element of game play but i wont spoil it for everyone you 
 will have to wait and see.
  
  Online play is fantastic besides the occasional move spammers and lag spikes. Other than those 
 two things the amount of players are vast and all offer different skill levels which capcom brought 
 in the feature to look via skill level, stability and highest skill.
  
  Overall this game is a must have for all beat em up style games along with Tekken which is sure 
 to be on par with street fighter.
  
  Graphics : 9
  Game play: 8.5
  Story: 9 (since i knew the story already :P)
  Online: 8
  
  Overall: 9 (Must have) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: desperado2503
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  How to begin this? Well ok i'll try. It's awesomeness in the purest expression ever.
  
  You have a game that marked the 2D Fighting genre & also the characters were bigger than life.. 
 & all, well this street fighter will somehow remind that still exists & it will bring nostalgia 
 to most SF enthusiasts who played with their friends or tournies at the arcades.
  
  The graphics are awesome even though some character designs could have been better... specially 
 ryu. But other than that it's sweet, the expressions are also tremendously great it gives life 
 to SF like most people wouldn't expect.. let's say you do a combo & finish it with a super combo 
 & while you're at it you'll see the pain expression of your foe while getting hit by your fists 
 & also the focus attack's ink splatting effects are brilliant.
  
  As for the whole mechanic, it's a mixture of SF2T, SF3, CVS2 & SF EX... yeah you can cancel most 
 attacks with ease here. The focus attack is the new parry system on SF4 but sadly you won't rely 
 too much on it when playing with more skilled players because it takes only a faster 2nd hit to 
 break it. 
  
  But nonetheless... it's definitely a must buy. 
  
  ENJOY you hadoukens. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 9_point_9_5
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 11:20 pm PT
Review:  Ok, sit down and take a deep breath, because what I'm going to say might shock you.
  
  I do not care for, I do not like, Street Fighter 4.
  
  From the first day I heard that this 
 game was going to be in 3D, I had my doubts. I had my fears. On February 17, 2009, the sum of my 
 fears had been confirmed. Capcom had presented me with Street Fighter EX 4.
  
  I get a very familiar feeling from SF4. Not the familiar feel that Capcom had promised though. 
 Not the familiar, old school, throwback Street Fighter we waited 10 long years for. Instead, I 
 get this familiar feeling that I've been here, done this before. 
  
  12 years ago, in 1997, we were presented with a 3D Street Fighter on the Playstation, Street Fighter 
 EX plus Alpha. Gamespot reviewed it and gave it an 8.3, which is not bad. SFEX was an interesting 
 game. It had decent gameplay, some new characters, ok graphics, and some new and interesting gameplay 
 mechanics. For the most part, you could describe SFEX as, Jump attack, normal, special, super, 
 super-cancel into another super. That's about as deep as the game got. 
  
  Jump back to the present and SF4. After spending unnecessary time unlocking characters that should 
 be present and playable from the start, you have to then play through the challenge modes to unlock 
 more useless, trivial things like medals, titles, icons, and colors. The only redeeming quality 
 is the existence of the Trial Challenges, which serve to actually teach you the mechanics of the 
 game. However, I digress... remember what I said? Been there, done that. Didn't we get to do that 
 in SFEX? Remember performing combos that they teach you in the training mode? Yep, definitely been 
 there, done that. Your combos will also be very familiar. Jump attack, normal, special, super, 
 ultra. Occassionally you'll break that up with Jump attack, normal, special, Focus Attack Dash 
 Cancel, special, super, ultra.
  
  I also remember SFEX having some very clunky, stiff, rigid, and sloppy feeling characters and mechanics. 
 Though it was a cool, albeit short lived, departure from the standard SF game, it was very clunky 
 and rigid. Something about EX was always off, always wrong... the characters just didn't handle 
 quite like they should. Maybe it was the 3D models that seemed inherently clunky and rigid.
  
  It should be noted, that there is very little difference in the feel of Street Fighter 4. The 
 characters, while they look great, are simply eye candy. The characters feel clunky, stiff, and 
 rigid. The gameplay is sloppy. After each successful attack, the game seems to have a brief pause, 
 as if to show off that the attack connected. It feels like some of the SNK games, in how they seem 
 to pause with each attack. The game itself is overall slow and sluggish. Then we come to the "new" 
 focus attack. New, only in the sense of animation, but definitely not in execution. The Focus Attack 
 is simply the new Alpha Counter, or SFEX's Guard Crush. Once again, been there, done that. The 
 only real new thing about the Focus Attack, is that you can cancel it into a dash. (FADC... Focus 
 Attack Dash Cancel) This is the only thing new about it, and while it does create opportunities, 
 it's still only mildly different than an Alpha Counter or Guard Crush.
  
  The graphics of the game really do speak for themselves. Some people complain about the character 
 models not looking good, but I like them. But graphics don't make the game, and SF4 is no exception. 
 Same for the sound... it's ok, the music is ok. It's nice to hear some re-done versions of old 
 SF tunes, but again, the music does nothing to improve on the rigidity and clunkiness of the gameplay.
 
  
  All in all, SF4 (EX4) is not a terrible game. What it is, is an ok fighter, with very pretty visuals, 
 and a thinly veiled attempt at being something new. It's NOT a new, groundbreaking game. It's NOT 
 a throwback to classic Street Fighter gameplay. The "replay value" that they put into the game, 
 is nothing more than a waste of time to get you to unlock things and use characters you would otherwise 
 not care about, or would believe should be available to you from the start. Again, the only redeeming 
 quality is the Trial Challenge mode which acts as a tutorial, but you'll never play it again after 
 completing it... if you even care about completing it to begin with. In the end, what this game 
 is NOT, is Street Fighter 4. What it IS, is Street Fighter EX 4. Been there, done that.
  
  There is, however, a glimmer of hope for this game. We all know that Capcom never gets it right 
 on the first try. The SF2 series took 5 iterations before they got it right. The SFA series took 
 3 tries, and the SF3 series took 3 tries. Lets just hope that with the 360's and PS3's ability 
 to provide us with Download Content, that Capcom chooses to upgrade the game with DLC, instead 
 of doing the classic Capcom move and making us dish out more money for and upgraded version of 
 the same game on a different disc.
  
  Do not believe the Capcom Hype Machine. This game is a HUGE disappointment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: exray
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:16 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV has finally made it out of the arcades and onto home consoles. Capcom has delivered 
 another great fighter with lots of familiar faces and it looks fantastic.
  
  The roster has all the original street fighters as well as a few that you will recognize from throughout 
 the SF series. New characters Rufus, C. Viper, Don Fuerte and Abel are all extremely well done and 
 fun to play. Each character has a solid list of special moves and they feel pretty balanced in 
 comparison to one another.
  
  SF4 looks incredible and Capcom made an excellent decision to go with a pseudo-cell shading style 
 that makes the action a joy to look at. There are no complaints on the technical side of the game 
 unless you count the boyband intro song which might make you laugh the first time you hear it. 
 
  
  The combat in the game is fast paced and brutal - having stripped down some of the extra baggage 
 that the series picked up between SF2 and now and it's great to see some old moves in action with 
 a fresh coat of paint. There is lots, including the new focus attacks to master which should keep 
 players into the game for quite some time.
  
  The downside of SF4 is that unless you are a hardcore fighter fan and have your skills polished, 
 the game is punishingly difficult. I think that maybe our beloved Gamespot reviewers have lost 
 some perspective concerning people who don't play and review video games for a living - contrary 
 to what the GS review said, it's tough to recommend this game to someone who has never played Street 
 Fighter before. 
  
  At it's default setting, the arcade mode is brutally unforgiving. It is so hard that frustration 
 levels can reach baby-kicking levels after only an opponent or two if you're not prepared. Certain 
 fighters will perform the same throws on you over and over and feel somewhat 'cheap'. The final 
 boss will make you want to throw your controller at the TV - he's that annoying. Surprisingly, 
 the easy setting isn't really all that much easier and still poses a significant challenge.
  
  Online play is a mixed bag. Good connections or bad the competition level online is stiff - 
 which is great if you're good at the game and are feeling competitive but again frustrating for 
 newer/rusty players. I have a feeling that most newbies are spending their time trying to get a 
 handle on things offline. And it deserves to be mentioned that a huge number of players will disconnect 
 from a match if they think they're going to lose to avoid point loss. It's lame, it's happened 
 ever since Fighters went online and something should really really really be done about it already.
 
  
  What about those training and challenge modes that are supposed to help you learn? They're there 
 alright, they just aren't that helpful. Training can allow you to practice moves on a dummy or 
 a CPU opponent but to actually learn what you're doing there are a number of 'trials' for each 
 character. There are five tiers of trials for each fighter: the first two are a breeze and show 
 you the absolute basics - how to perform simple punches and kicks as well as throws and your special 
 moves. Tier three and above are where things take a step in the insane direction. To pass on to 
 the next tier and therefore 'learn' you have to succesfully complete 5 or 6 different moves/combos 
 which get really hard, really fast. There is no way around it - the combo timing is punishing and 
 there are plenty of moves that could leave you stumped for hours... or days. It doesn't help that 
 you might not necessarily know how the move you're trying to produce is supposed to look or exactly 
 which variation of a certain attack button is supposed to be used (lots of them have different 
 attacks based on distance from your target) . Soul Calibur does it best with an animated movelist 
 complete with button presses that you can access from the first minute you start the game up. SF4 
 really missed the boat if they were interested in actually teaching someone new to play the game.
 
  
  What's wrong with a little challenege? Nothing, but for a newer player it's one thing to feel challenged 
 and quite another to have playing a game feel like work. 
  
  Street Fighter IV is a great game for the dedicated. Newcomers be warned.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benfinni
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 5:12 pm PT
Review:  This is what i have been waiting for, the fighters, the moves, the combos, this Street Fighter 
 has been well overdue and i am glad it is finally here. I was so eager to open up the case and 
 get it and begin to open a can of annihilation with the figters. 
  
  I very much like the training mode it helped me jogged my memory on most of my favourite fighters. 
 
  
  Now most of all i really do love the sudden death super right before you are about to die u could 
 get so charged and turn the tide of the match in your favour now that is really a great thing to 
 have, it lets you know that match isn't over until it is actually over. 
  
  The moves are all great, but i would much rather play this game with an arcade control set than 
 a regular console pad. so, because of this i am looking into getting an arcade control set if i 
 can get one. Now, that would complete my Street Fighter experience.
  
  I most of all like the online experience of this game. The fact that you could be playing a solo 
 match accept an invite and then after accepting the invite and either winning or losing or whenever 
 you are done, you can actually pick up from where you left off. Talk about a bookmark.
  
  Now if you would excuse me i have to get back to annihilating Blanka with Sagat. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ndntt44
Rating: 2
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  what more can I say?
  
  Graphics, woot did they even afford a graphic designer?
  special effects? might as well check out the microwave when the light is turned on
  
  Considering 
 what possibilites there are with graphics and physical game engines, the developers, must have 
 thought "oh what could we do in order to create a game that will cost us nearly nothing to produce" 
 
  take a bit of street fighter, add some effects, and that should satisfy them all.
  
  I guarantee that most ppl who buy this, will either return it or put it aside latest a week after 
 purchase, caus its just boring to play these chars over and over again, no special bonuses, nothing 
 that would keep you at the console in order to achieve something, besides the greatest achievement 
 being, pressing PS home button and the selecting QUIT GAME!
  
  Just get your old super nintendo out it was awesome back then, i always loved it, but for the new 
 generations its just a waste of time an a pure dissapointment on the whole,
  i brought this game back after about 3 hours of gameplay, I think I dont have to add anymore 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3RC3tHeShOoTeR
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:27 pm PT
Review:  They have taken the game where I thought Ex was going years ago. This version to me trumps all 
 before bringing the arcade to your living room. With wonderful cut scenes and a story line to go 
 on the game is sure to bring in new fans as well as dazzle the veterans. 
  Though third strike had some vary flashy combos SF IV takes it to the next level with ultra combos 
 and stun techniques for those of you who love them. Keeping with the traditional moves of course 
 and adding some new tricks as well. The new characters are a blast to use and are fluid dispite 
 the new arrivals. There are also some old friends you can unlock as well who's moves will feel 
 familiar.
  There are plenty of unlocks both for online play and singleplayer modes. With videos, art, and 
 more. The playstation network does it's share and has added some trophies for you to earn as well. 
 Which can have you up all night trying to land that perfect or get your next great victory.
  I have played plenty of online and even those with bad signal really don't effect the match. Atleast 
 I haven't had any troubles yet. With everything in this game it can keep you busy for awhile with 
 just the singleplayer unlocks. So I deem this game a great buy for both new and old fans of the 
 SF series and the fighter genre all together. See you on the battlefield. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tony_Atak
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 19, 2009 1:08 pm PT
Review:  This is the only game in its series that actually topped Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo. This is 
 what fighting games should always be, simple to control once you get the hang of things yet it 
 requires tactical techniques and precise timing. Online gaming is a must with this. Its very smooth 
 have not witnessed any delay so far. If you see me on there challenge me Tony_ZoBird is the name. 
 Arcade mode is similar in style to the others but with animated cut scenes for each character which 
 is pretty cool. The graphics are top notch and the visuals are sick! You'd think that would be 
 hard to accomplish with a 2D style game. I don't think any fighter game will top this for a very 
 very long time. I may be taking this review lightly because I grew up on Street Fighter and have 
 always been a fan. I will say however two of my friends who played SFIV with me are in love with 
 it (even though I keep kickin there asses ;) All I have to say is this better be the game of the 
 year! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 12:59 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game day one & I must say that it is a cool experience especially since I haven't 
 played street fighter for a couple of years now. The game has it's strong & weak points to me, 
 so let's get to the point.
  
  
  
  Story- The story actually takes place between street fighter 2 & 3, so we don't get to see some 
 memorable characters like Guy, Birdie & Sean, but this is a minor problem. 
  
  
  Graphics- The graphics are well done & are a huge upgrade from the past games in the series. We're 
 now looking at more detailed 3d characters & this makes the characters come to life on the screen. 
 (Especially my 60 inch sony bravia hdtv:) )
  
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is well done & challenging. I find it kind of frustrating being a street 
 fighter vet that it's difficult to pull off ultra moves & supers! The characters are very challenging 
 right off the back which I am very happy to see. I also love the fact that I can smash on people 
 online who want to challenge me.. this was a great addition to this game & I hope more fighting 
 games start picking this feature up.
  
  
  Replay- The replay value to me is pretty high since you can play people online & have offline matches 
 with friends & such.
  
  
  Final thought- This game is worth it if you are a fan of the series or are looking to become one. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rebelious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 9:32 am PT
Review:  After thirteen years since Street Fighter lll was realeased, finally Street Fighter lV has come. 
 The fighting game genre has been neglected for so long, and for a while it felt like gaming was 
 missing a limb. Street Fighter lV includes most of the cast from Street Fighter II. I say most 
 because unfortunately, Dee Jay and T Hawk didn't make the cut. Dan (Jean Claude Van Dan.. lol) makes 
 his return along with Gen, Sakura, and Rose from the Alpha series. And few new fighters making 
 their debut into the franchise; Rufus, Gouken, Abel, El Fuerte, Seth and Crimson Viper.
  
  
  Gameplay: The fighting within the game still manages to maintain the SF feel while implementing 
 new features (Focus attacks and Ultra combos) smoothly.
  The game is easy to learn but difficult to master. Making it playable for new comers, while giving 
 plenty of dept for veterans.
  
  Online: The online gameplay is smooth. People can challenge you even while you're in the middle 
 of playing arcade mode. Kinda like the good old arcarde days.
  
  Graphics: Beautiful game, it speaks for itself. The backgrounds are good. Not the best ones in 
 the series though.
  
  Sound: Music is well done. you can also listen to your custom soundtrack.
  
  All in all this 
 game gives a new needed hope for thwe fighting game genre. Get this game.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kenuty
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 19, 2009 3:18 am PT
Review:  What more can I say? You either love it or hate it, this is Street fighter from your childhood 
 in 3d. 
  
  Gameplay: Ex focus moves, Combos, cancel moves, all your characters are back, the new characters 
 add a nice feel, training mode, challenge mode, shietons of unlockables, online play, incoming 
 downloadable expansions, tournaments, competition, etc etc etc
  
  Music: I love the remix of all the rounds, They need to add more.
  
  Graphics: 3d Anime style, 
 flashy, awsome super move animations and camera effects to let you know your opponent got owned 
 hard.
  
  Controls: the game can be easy, once you do challenges you start learning that this game can get 
 more and more complicating to chain combos. Your fingers will feel as if you are mashing but you 
 are not because the moves get that complicating you cannot afford a 1 second delay. once you get 
 it down welcome to advance. You will probably spend hours on the training mode.
  
  Story: game comes with in game anime, what more can you ask for a prologue and an ending to tell 
 the story. THIS IS THE WAY FIGHTING GAMES SHOULD BE NOW NOT Drawings with words.
  
  p. s: seth is not overpowered like one of the reviewers says, i beaten him on hardest mode, and 
 I also beaten players who use him. The kid is just bad
  
  Heres the thing about street fighter online. Theres tons and tons of different players out there 
 who play thier style
  
  -Mashers: you cannot tell wtf is going to happen, unpredictable offensive
  
  -Offensive players: 
 they lack defense
  
  -Jumpers- They jump and attack your ass nonstop
  
  -Combo Executioner- They kick your ass, with style
  
  -Balancers: thier defense and offensive 
 are evened out, a potential threat.
  
  -Ex move freaks, They spam ex after kicking your ass over and over
  
  -Special move freaks 
 They take hits just to pull special moves on you and unleash thier true fury afterwords.
  
  -Turtlers- They spend thier skills in blocking ALL YOUR MOVES.
  
  -Cheesers/only cares about 
 rank/ nonskills: they rig thier games for 30 seconds, 1 round, give you a couple of hits, and this 
 adds to thier Battlepoints, or they disconnect on you if they are losing since the rank they have 
 is as important as their genital, Avoid these players.
  
  Beginners: you can cheese simple moves with timing, and kick ass
  
  Advance: you can cheese 
 some, pro some, kick some ass
  
  Pros: your hand, thumbs, fingers are sore like you had some happy hours way too long, but you can 
 kick anyone ass and only the ones who are at your level can beat you, a beginner can sometimes 
 luck it and cheese you if they try really hard while an advance player will scratch you.
  
  (Note) this is all i have for now, THERE IS A TON MORE STYLE OUT THERE WHICH IS WHY IT MAKES THIS 
 GAME SO DIVERSE AND COMPETITIVE, YOU MUST HAVE THIS, I NEVER SPENT SO MUCH EFFORT ON A STREET FIGHTER 
 GAME SUCH AS THIS, THERE ARE TONS OF TOURNAMENTS OUT THERE TOO, 
  
  
  STREET FIGHTER HAS LIVED UP TO ITS HYPE. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Uesugi-dono
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 18, 2009 9:48 pm PT
Review:  To give perspective I'm one of the Old School "been playing Street Fighter for 18 years" Masters. 
 Throughout its many incarnations I've always stayed on top of Street Fighter. Since SF III was 
 a bit of a disappointment to me, primarily due to the noticable loss of characters and the inclusion 
 of cheesy unrealistic characters, I was really holding out a lot of hope for SF IV. And it mostly 
 delivers... mostly.
  
  Graphics: 8.5 The visual update is pretty sweet. Honestly I'd have prefered HD sprites and a more 
 traditional setting but who can stop progress, right? The 2 1/2 D presentation is frankly done 
 as very best as it can be done. Enough to be impressive. Character models move beautifully even 
 if they are animated a little comically. It adds a small element of silly humor to it all which, 
 to a purist like me, is a bit of blasphemy. Overall though it doesn't really distract. you get 
 used to it quickly and the trade-off, the beautiful environments and improved motion, really do 
 enough to bring around even the old sticklers like myself.
  
  Music: 9.5 Although I really miss the metalized Ken theme from HD Remix the music is pretty outstanding. 
 The new main theme is catchy and inspiring if it occurs during a match. Although some of the English 
 voices are predictably lacking this is the first time I've ever seen an option in a game not only 
 to choose between Japanese and English tracks but to allow certain characters to toggle between. 
 This is genius. Yes, I'm a d**k for deducting .5 for not having metalized Ken but otherwise the 
 music and sounds are flawless.
  
  Controls: 7.5 SFIV has a simplified control scheme in order to make it accessible for new players. 
 That's admirable but the loss of moves is a little disappointing. However the big loss is Air-Blocking. 
 Whoever decided to remove this is a moron. SF IV plays slow, much slower than all but the oldest 
 SF games. This is debilitating to a player with total muscle memory for all 12 characters. The 
 learning curve is actually greater, I feel, for veterans than for newbs and while this may have 
 been Capcom's stated goal, it doesn't make it any better. I already gave up on a Roll, which was 
 one of the most competitive manuvers ever but no Air-Blocking is, quite simply, retarded.
  
  Gameplay: 7 Giving this a 7 is hard because 99% of the game doesn't deserve it. On the whole 
 this isn't a very hard game... unless you want to beat it. Seth is BROKEN. A boss character that 
 takes all the ridiculousness of Gill/Twelve/Q/Etc and adds the difficulty of ult. Rugal/Shin Gouki 
 times fifty. Yes, times 50. Seth can disregard any attack you make, even on the Easy setting. If 
 he doesn't want to be hit, and he rarely does, then he can ignore your Kick/Punch/Fireball/EX move/Ultra 
 Combo and just cheese the ever-loving f**k out of you. He takes virtually all of the fun out of 
 playing and leaves you angry and bitter that hard-fought moves that you skillfully executed could 
 be simply ignored by a nude smurf who lacks genetalia.
  
  There should be a hidden code that disables Seth and unlocks an apology from Capcom!!!!
  
  
 Online is exactly what was expected. A great experience with the right people, an annoying spam-fest 
 with others.
  
  Overall I give Street Fighter IV an 8. It's a shame because it is a really fun game. What this 
 title lacks is just a couple of critical moves like a Roll and definately an Air-Block. Downloadable 
 characters would add points to the final. The single biggest flaw in the whole experience is Seth. 
 Personally I'd pay up to 29.99 for a code to remove him from the game but the most I can hope for 
 is that they realize what they've done and not repeat this mistake in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smbius
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2009 7:02 pm PT
Review:  The Street Fighter franchise has had a long history of success. Since Street Fighter 2 debuted, 
 hacked versions of the arcade were being played by many gamers in 7-Elevens and pizza parlors. 
 This prompted other game companies to come up with a plethora of fighting game franchises that 
 have made their way into the fighting game market. Since then, a million fighting games have stormed 
 the arcades and consoles but only a handful have continued to resonate in the minds of gamers. 
 Fortunately, fighting game tournaments (such as EVO) have held on to only the most popular and 
 balanced games. This weeds out the gimmicks from the greats. Thankfully, Street Fighter 4 has continued 
 the tradition of a deep and balanced fighting system. 
  
  Street Fighter 4's art direction hopes to upgrade SF purists from their 2D sprites and newcomers 
 who've been resistant to fighting games but have been lamenting to play one. What really stands 
 out is the detailed animation, memorable backgrounds, and other nice subtleties such as a trailing 
 brush stroke from a special move. When attacks connect, each character's facial and body animations 
 are very expressive. Whether you're the giver or the givee, each hit is dramatic in its own way, 
 especially when Ultra Combos connect. In typical Capcom fashion, the Ultra Combo is a salute to 
 the overkill special attack prevalent on all their fighting games. But in 3D, it's more emphasized 
 - the first few hits start in slow motion as the camera sweeps from a close-up view of the attacker's 
 face to an overall view of the ass-kicking. It definitely adds that extra element of feeling satisfied 
 or being demoralized.
  
  You'll also notice that the soundtrack has some old tunes remixed along with actual songs with 
 lyrics. It's a nice touch and adds depth and atmosphere to the stages you'll play in. Besides the 
 great eye candy, SF4 has plenty of modes to try like time attack, challenge, etc. Nothing from 
 what you've already seen in other fighting games but they're here and provide some change to climb 
 the online leaderboards. 
  
  The single player arcade mode can be setup to accept invitations. Although it maybe irritating 
 for others to interrupt your quest to unlock your characters, you'll find the single player mode 
 unbalanced once you reach the last boss. At any difficulty setting (even the highest) , the characters 
 are beatable and you will learn the strengths and weaknesses of each character after playing against 
 them. The higher the difficulty the better. However, once you reach the end boss (Seth) all difficulty 
 settings go out the window. Seth is particularly aggravating and cheesy irregardless of the game 
 settings. It's this point where you'll give online players a warm welcome to damper your frustrations. 
 Despite the game's end boss, the game can be very accessible to those starting new to fighting 
 games. All moves are intuitively stoppable without having to resort to some online guide. There 
 isn't one single way to counterattack a move. SF4 is an easy-to-learn-hard-to-master game that 
 can be enjoyed at all levels as long as the expert doesn't go head-to-head with the rookies. The 
 developers at Capcom understand what's already out there and they've done their homework and worked 
 on their timing. Street Fighter 4 is more than just a revisit to the old-school basics and depth 
 - it's a near-perfect replication of the arcade experience complete with all of the glory and humiliation 
 it brings.
  
  radcastro. com 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KING_KEV_321
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:51 pm PT
Review:  this is crazy gud, i got super street fighter 2 hd remix so i wasnt realll dat hype for gettin 
 this game, an plus , heres a laugh -- im not good at fightin games at alll -- but n/e way its a great 
 game. the graphics are great, the only thing dat comes close is tekken. since i played super street 
 fighter 2 hd remixed i realize immmediately that it is more responsive an the character models 
 feel lighter, which is a gud thing. so i uncovered no glitches or lag or anything like dat dats 
 plus. the sound is wack so say the most lol ur better off putting on ur ipod lol. the replay value 
 is good to say the least. difficulty level is up there in difficulty if ur not a an hardcore fighter 
 (like myself) its gonna be a chore pickin up wins both online an off, u need lots of practice i 
 mean lots. since each character is different pick 1 dats represents ur style of playin. if u plan 
 on gettin this game, ur fingers are gonna burn lol it inevitable dats pretty much it.
  p. s: if u wanna chalenge mi on psn, message me peace out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bebito_damon
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 1:22 pm PT
Review:  First I want to say that I am a lifelong Street Fighter series fan. As most of you are. I really 
 enjoyed this game so far. I'm going to break down my ratings like this.
  
  Music: I have to say the music in this game is pretty good. It reminds me of theme music from late 
 80's to early 90's action movies. Just listen to the opening theme song, "Indestructible", and 
 you'll see what I mean. Most stages have old rock background music with the exception of Seth's 
 stage. (10.0)
  
  Gameplay: The game suffers here a little. I say this only because it is hard to execute a lot of 
 the more impressive super moves with the button layout on a SixAxis controller. This is one of 
 those games in which you'll have to buy an arcade style controller in order to master all moves. 
 I'm assuming that most of us still use only the SixAxis controllers here. If not and you're a more 
 hardcore gamer with all the neat PS3 accessories, ignore this rating. (8.5)
  
  Graphics: I like the new graphics. Great use of the PS3's abilities. The movies look great too. 
 The opening sequence made my brother's jaw drop. It is clear that the makers of this game wanted 
 to focus in on visual upgrades to the series. I hope they keep the new look. I still want to see 
 this game somehow be converted into a 3D fighter. (10.0)
  
  Online Play: Some people have experiences lags in their connection, and of course like any game 
 this would bring down the quality of playing online. So far I have had pretty good connections. 
 But I'm not a hardcore player so I can't really say if there's any lag at all. I'm sure there's 
 some, but I haven't noticed the game jumping and I have never been cut off a server (which happened 
 to me oftern in Call Of Dutry) . (10.0 - thus far)
  
  Replayability: With all the hidden characters and trophies to be unlocked and earned I say this 
 game should be exciting enough for at least a few months. I'm not a player who spends more than 
 2-3 hours on a game in the same day so this game (and the next Killzone) should hold me over until 
 the next hit game comes out in the summer. (10.0)
  
  Enjoy guys... I'll write more when I play more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bmassarani
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 18, 2009 6:44 am PT
Review:  Yeah, I know, a perfect 10. But to be honest, after I booted up SF4 and started playing I immediatley 
 thought about what could be wrong with this game. The hype surrounding SF4 was immense, nowhere 
 near Halo, but if you have ever been into an arcade you know what Street Fighter is. The blitz 
 for SF4 didnt come from television, or soda cans, but from actual gamers that know and love the 
 series. When I started reading the high reviews I was excited and worried at the same time.
  
  I love the Street Fighter series, but I am not that good at it. SF3: Third Strike, I thought, 
 was an amazing game... even with the difficulty that it produced into the series. ST2 HD Remix 
 is extremely hard for me (on any level above medium) so with SF4 coming I was worried that It was 
 just going to be brutal beat down after beat down. Now what I am happy to say is that the formula 
 for SF4 has been refined and again becomes easy for anybody to pick up and play.
  
  So what is wrong with the game? To me, the only thing wrong are things that I have to nit-pick 
 about. In a genre where there is almost little-to-no story in the game itself SF4 fleshes out the 
 characters through anime sequences that are cheesy and poorly voiced. Yup, thats it, my only gripe 
 is the cut scene voice-overs, but even these cut scenes are something that almost no other fighting 
 game even does (and in the end it doesnt even affect the game play so why should it be a negative) .
 
  
  From what I can tell the controls are precise (all the reviews I have read love the controls) , 
 but Street Fighter was never meant to be played on a controller. I am a 360 fan boy, but I purchased 
 this for my ps3 because the 360 controller is HORRIBLE for fighting games (and for the collectors 
 edition blu ray movie) . I am waiting on my regular addition Mad Catz arcade stick so that I can 
 play for more than 20 minutes without my fingers hurting.
  
  The presentation of SF4 is awesome. The graphics look awesome.. giving off both a 2d and 3d vibe 
 that pushes the series in a new direction without any negative results. The music is good, and 
 has a little kick of nostalgia. All-in-all this is a great game for fans of the series or anybody 
 that likes fighting games in general
  
  The Good - Everything 
  
  The Bad - Nothing
  
  The Ugly - Voice overs and the intro song?
  
  - Personal musing - SF4 really harkened back 
 to SF2. Giving characters, stages, and music a new look and feel while keeping a nostalgia feeling 
 intact. Would it be such a bad thing to see some drastic character changes for SF5? Maybe its time 
 we start focusing on new characters and making the game completely fresh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: air4rce1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 4:58 am PT
Review:  Just buy it.
  
  This game is Street fighter 2 with 3D rendered images, while maintaining the same "look" and "feel" 
 of the old game. Same old kick-ass old characters like Ryu, Ken, Dhalsim, E. Honda, Sagat, Chun-Li, 
 etc... Mixed in with new arsenal of great new characters like El Fuerte, Crimson Viper, Rufus, 
 etc...
  
  If you are a fan, this game is a no brainer. If you are not a fan, then I tell you this, from the 
 choice of Figthing games out there for the PS3 that I have played: 
  
  Soulcalibur IV 
  Tekken 5: Dark Resurrection 
  Mortal Kombat vs. DC Universe 
  
  This is by a MILE, a better 
 game. In SF4 there are no long breaks in the middle of the action, is just kick-ass non-stop fighting 
 which is what a fighting game should be.
  
  Minor Con (Only reason is not a 10) : only comes in 720p (I guess for those silly xBox users... lol) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bwgamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:30 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this review plain and simple. Street Fighter is back with vengeance. SF4 takes all that's 
 great of the classic SFs and makes them better in almost every way. I'll never forget playing the 
 original Street Fighter in the arcades as a kid. Boy how far the SF series has come. The graphics 
 in SF4 are a must see in motion. Beautiful effects and landscapes suck you into the environments 
 and fight. Each and ever fighter's special moves are incredible to behold. I'm playing the PS3 
 version and the controls are spot on. Which is a must for any fighting game. The only negative 
 I found was the anime story lines. By using anime it detracts from the game and almost doesn't 
 feel as if they belong. But besides that little side step SF4 is unmatched. If your a fan of SF 
 or just a gamer SF4 is a must have on any console. Oh and one more thing... it's online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: s3ank1ms
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 9:13 pm PT
Review:  street fighter 4 is by far the ps3 best fighting game for multiple reasons, first its highly addictive, 
 second theres alot of depth in this game, third anyone with prior experience with the street fighter 
 series can jump in and pull off moves. features like online play allow you to mop the floor with 
 your oppenent are virtually lag free from my experience. the arcade modes single player AI ismuch 
 improved from HD Remix. the controls on the other hand the duashock 3 can leave your thumb sore 
 and pulling off the supers and ultra can be quite difficult with the DS3 but with some extra practice 
 you can get them out pretty quickly with little problem, even though going for the SF4 fightpads 
 and fightsticks is a better choice.
  overal this game is probley the best fighting game ive played and probley go down in history as 
 the sequel capcom got right 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaGear
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Street Fighter IV hit the gaming world like a freight train when it was announced, and now that 
 it's out, everyone can experience the game for what it is. There is something for everyone to be 
 had here, and this review is from an old timer that grew up with the series, starting with the 
 World Warriors.
  
  Having grown up with the series, I just admit, the graphics were a turn off for me. They are by 
 no means bad, and the style is certainly pulled off nicely, but as a long time fan, I guess you 
 can say I am a purist; to me, it just isn't Street Fighter if its not sprites.
  
  Having said that, I don't think the graphics are bad at all for a fighting game, and as a cell-shaded 
 game, they are some of the best, although I still think the title goes to Dragon Quest VIII. The 
 oil paint effect during focus attacks looks particularly good, however, and I wish it came up more 
 often than with just the single move each character had. In fact, if the entire game has used that 
 visual effect, I'd probably have found it much more visually appealing. Besides visual changes 
 though, the choice in going with polygons also leads to a slight tweak to the gameplay.
  
  The old sprite based Street Fighters were all about frames of animation timing. That was how you 
 executed tech attacks, counters, parries, and supermoves at a perfect opening. A trained eye got 
 these moments down to a single frame, but as of yet, I do not believe this is possible with SF4. 
 The animation is much smoother, even, and inconsistant (meaning you're not getting the exact same 
 7 frame kick animation that sprites give) .
  
  Again, this is the gripe of an old timer stuck in the past, but it's not just about Street Fighter. 
 This is about sprite based fighting games as a whole, and this is where SF truly departs from the 
 2D fighting game class.
  
  Beyond the changes from the classics, the fighting is still good 'ol Street Fighter, with a few 
 differences. For one, it has taken a step back from SFIII, and opted out of parrying. This comes 
 with a mixed reaction from me, as I was never a master at parrying in that game, but to take it 
 away certainly makes the game a lot less about defense this time around. 
  
  Truth be told, this SF is all about offense. Every new fighting feature revolves around it. You 
 can use focus attacks to stun opponents for combos, and cancel out of moves by sacrificing a little 
 EX bar to keep things on the ground, or to quickly recover from a launching move to do an air juggle. 
 This makes the game feel a lot like Guilty Gear X2, and having past experience with it certainly 
 allowed me to jump right into that depth of the pond.
  
  
  Another thing that has changed is the emphasis on throws. Throws now work like in 3D fighters, 
 by pressing weak punch and kick at the same time. This already felt kind of awkward to be doing 
 in a SF game, but it was nice to actually be able to counter throws, especially since the computer 
 AI does it ALL THE TIME. 
  
  My very first match was against Zangeif, the throwing champion, so I thought it was just the AI's 
 way of playing him. To my dismay, the AI plays ALL characters like throwing machines, and playing 
 a close range game is basically suicide if you're not on top of your timing. 
  
  This is not a bad thing, neccessarily, and is a far cry from the perfect match chain throwing you 
 can do in Soul Caliber IV, but it's still pretty annoying. Just to be sure I wasn't just imagining 
 things, I threw in SFIII, Capcom vs. SNK 2, and SFAlpha2 just to see. Sure enough, the computer 
 rarely threw in those games. So get ready, because if you're not playing against human opponents, 
 this SF plays like a very different animal than you may be used to.
  
  Another different animal is the revenge meter and the ultimate attack. These are new super moves 
 that can be done if you're getting your ass handed to you. Most of them are performed the same 
 way the super move is done, just with all three punches or kicks. These are particularly stylish 
 to watch, and do quite a bit of damage to help even the battle field. These moves, however, come 
 up a lot, because you fill the meter when you lose just under half of your life bar, so you can 
 realistically use them every single round, and they eventually kind of got old to me.
  
  As for the super moves, Capcom really went back to basics with these. The characters from Super 
 SFII Turbo all have the same super from that game, and they're all performed in the same manor 
 as well. What that means is the super moves are, for the most part, really unimpressive, and charging 
 characters like Guile and Chun-li are a major pain in the ass to do on a gamepad, especially the 
 360 pad. Charging back then pushing forward, back, forward is no easy feat on that wannabe analog 
 stick.
  
  Another thing that is quite different is the music. Admittedly, every SF game has come with very 
 different music. SFII was drastically different than what came with the Alpha series, and SFIII 
 was another giant leap. This time, I don't even know what to say. The main theme song sounds like 
 a Back Street Boys song of some kind, and a lot of the stages sound like Techno. The music certainly 
 is different, but I would say, overall, it grew on me, just like SFIII's did.
  
  The rest of the sound, however... did not, and probably will not. Make no mistake, the english 
 voice acting is flat out bad. Change it to Japanese, right away, and if you must have that authentic 
 feel, you can beat the game to unlock character specific voices, so your americans speak english, 
 and your japanese speak japanese, and your... others speak... english or japanese. The announcer, 
 though, is always in english, and is REALLY bad. I think you can mute him in the audio options, 
 but don't remember what that 4th bar was for off the top of my head.
  
  All-in-all, Street Fighter IV is a pretty good fighter, and an okay entry in the Street Fighter 
 series. It brings classic game play with some fresh ideas, and a new visual style. While it may 
 not be a change everyone can agree on, it is by no means bad, and reaches to a new generation of 
 gamers while still keeping something for the long time fans.
  
  Edit: I take it back, the theme song sounds more like NSync than Backstreet Boys. The lead singer 
 could seriously be Justin Timberlake. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arshedka786
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 17, 2009 8:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm a huge fighting game fan. I am also a SF fan. However after playing the game for more than 
 10 hours, I must say the only way to describe it is 'confusion'. It confuses me because the game 
 play feels awkward. Don't get me wrong, I like the fact that capcom brought back the veterans, 
 and even better that they added new characters. However, the game play to me seems sluggish. Maybe 
 because this is a legitimate sequel to an old school favorite, everyone is so excited over it. 
 However I don't see what the major appeal is. 
  
  A few things I should mention...
  
  Graphics: Looks great on an HDTV, however if your still playing on SD TV's then your SOL.
  
 
  Gameplay: It's unique and new. If your a SF fan, you should have no problem adjusting to the game 
 like I did. In my opinion, it feels sluggish. Again, that is my opinion others might tend to disagree.
 
  However, there is a lot of replay value in this game because it provides you with many challenges 
 , and trophies to unlock.
  
  One more thing to mention: If you own this game for PS3, make sure to install the game data to 
 the HDD. It cuts the load times, but not significantly. This is also what makes me feel sour about 
 the game.
  
  Closing: In my opinion this game is an acquired taste. Give it a rent to see if this is your kind 
 of fighter, and if it is go ahead and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 17, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  I have tried street fighter games, from superstreet fighter till now, this is one of the most amazing 
 street fighter game ever made.
  
  I have collected almost all unlockable characters and have also challange palyers online. Online 
 challenge are fun and i can buit up my skills against many other players.
  
  I personally like the ulltra combo moves, especially for Ken and Fei Long, those moves are so cool 
 and especially when i am playing arcarde mode under hard mode.
  
  Most of the characters are cool and thanks to the producer of Street Fighter 4, i am experiencing 
 the best Fighting game ever made.
  
  But of cause, besides the good point, there are some bad points as well. When im trying out medium 
 mode, all CPU character' skills are on level 6 and above. i have to fight Abel for more than 5 
 times to get through to the next level.
  
  
  For those who have not try Street Fighter before, its better to try on easy mode instead, it could 
 be frustrating at first, but when you get some skills by using the training mode, you would be 
 able to play the hard mode.
  
  But nonethe less, this is the best street fighter game i have ever played!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 3:00 pm PT
Review:  Back in the 90's gamers would rush to the arcades to play Street Fighter 2 and spend every single 
 quarter they could find on the game. Capcom released many additions to the game such as, Street 
 Figher 2 Turbo, Super Street Fighter 2 Turbo, and of course the Alpha series. These games are considered 
 by many to be the best fighting games ever made. Unfortunately Street Fighter III did not fare 
 to well and the Street Fighter fans were left wondering if they will have a shining grace such 
 as Street Fighter 2. Well folks, I believe that day has come......
  
  
  Graphics - 10/10
  
  Lethal how could you give the graphics a perfect score!? I am not rating 
 the graphics as I would other games. The graphics are PERFECT for this style game. Everything is 
 absolutely beautiful and the characters and backrounds shine. Super moves explode on the screen 
 lighting up a dark lit room. This is what Street Fighter is supposed to look like.
  
  
  Sound - 9.25/10
  
  The game starts off with some cheesy music that sounds like the Backstreet 
 Boys but after that the sound really gets good. The announcer for one does a great job fitting 
 right in to this game. The way he calls super moves or how you finish the fights. Sound effects 
 leap out at you in surround sound and in game music sets the mood for some serious online and offline 
 fighting.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10
  
  This game does not offer a whole lot to the single player but since when was Street Fighter meant 
 for one player? There is an arcade mode which allows you to unlock new characters and other goodies. 
 A time trial mode and challenge modes. If you want to unlock everything in the game then you will 
 need to play these modes.
  The controls feel just like they did back in the day. You will be able to pick your favorite character 
 and jump right in to a fight. Now the d-pad can and probably will start to hurt your thumb so I 
 highly suggest an arcade stick. The Street Fighter IV arcade stick from Mad Catz seems to be a 
 good choice by gamers.
  Unlike Mortal Kombat games the combos and finishing moves do not require you to practice for 4 
 hrs until you can pull it off correctly.
  
  Online Multiplayer - 10/10
  
  It's simply perfect. The first thing I did was created a ranked match. Within seconds I had an 
 opponant ready to go. Online was ever so smooth with not a touch of lag. Playing online earns you 
 battle points (BP) which is basically your bragging rights and will be shown on the leaderboards. 
 Be careful though because losing a fight will cost you (BP) . You lose to a noob and you lose big 
 points. Lose to a great player with (BP) and you may not lose many pts. You will also be fighting 
 for new titles and icons that you will get to show off as you fight. This really helps the replay 
 value of playing online because you will want the best icon and title out there.
  You can also do voice chat while in the lobby. I chatted for a min with a guy who told me this 
 was his first game and I was thrilled to be playing him lol. I quickly destroyed him for an easy 
 65bp.
  
  I started off playing 12 games in 1 hour. I managed to win 7 of my 12 games and I have not played 
 a Street Fighter game since Street Fighter Alpha 3 lol. This is how comfortable the game feels. 
 
  
  
  Overall - 9.75/10
  
  As far as fighting games go, there is none better than Street Fighter IV. The trophies are not 
 going to be aquired in just a day or a week. You will need to play lots and lots of games to aquire 
 500 matches or 100 online wins. Look for me online and do not be afraid to challenge me to a game 
 or 2. Trust me, I am not that good...... yet. 
  
  This game gets Lethal's Stamp of Approval! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: convince73
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Most fighters take way to long to get good at, which is not always a bad thing. Street Fighter 
 can be played and enjoyed right out of the box. I just beat my son down with a character i've never 
 used. it did not rank as a cheap victory because i didnt use the same move over and over. this 
 game looks great and plays well. i really did like the new mk vs dc but it will be along time before 
 i play it again. Street Fighter just out does it at every punch, kick and block. This is what a 
 great fighter is Capcom has just moved the bar a little higher with this game. the game is so good 
 that wanted to review it. At first i thouhgt that i would only check out the game and maybe buy 
 it later. the only capcom that i own is capcom vs marvel 2. This is one of the few times that a 
 game has lived up the hype. may be this wont be for everyone but i'm sold. a classic game has been 
 remade and it is great. Capcom did a great job and did not drop the ball on this one. let's hope 
 that this game sells well enough that they keep making them. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
