-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Stuntman Ignition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/driving/stuntman/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Well-realized faux-Hollywood vibe.
 Stunt strings help make the driving more dynamic.
 Super quick load times between restarts.
 More accessible than its predecessor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Heavy focus on trial-and-error.
 Stunt coordinator will get on your nerves.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 28, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 18 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 275 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: THQ
Developer: Paradigm Ent.
Genre: Mission-based Driving
Date: Sep 17, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If the heavy focus on trial and error doesn't rattle you, Stuntman: Ignition can be some explosive 
 fun. 

  The original Stuntman was a polarizing game when it crash-landed on the PlayStation 2 more than 
 five years ago. The notion of playing the part of a Hollywood stunt driver seemed universally appealing, 
 but the game's exceedingly low threshold for missteps meant you had to play through lengthy stunt 
 sequences repeatedly before you got them right and could advance to the next sequence. The game's 
 winking take on Hollywood blockbusters and the satisfaction of really nailing a stunt sequence 
 made it all worthwhile for some folks, but others found it supremely frustrating. Paradigm has 
 taken over development duties on the new sequel, and Stuntman: Ignition is definitely a more dynamic, 
 more approachable game than its predecessor. It's still Stuntman, though, and you'll still need 
 a certain tolerance for trial and error.  

           If you can get past the ridiculous notion that anyone would shoot a two-and-a-half-minute 
 action sequence in real time, the action can be really thrilling.      

  The career mode in Ignition puts you in the role of a no-name commercial stuntman trying to work 
 his way up. Your first movie job is on the egregiously titled volcano disaster movie  Aftershock 
 , and if your performance is up to snuff, you'll go on to work on the hillbilly action sequel  
 Whoopin' and a Hollerin' II ;  Strike Force Omega , the directorial debut of action star Karl Steele; 
 the pulpy '70's cop movie  Overdrive ;  Never Kill Me Again , the latest in a glossy, long-running 
 spy series; and the dark, comic-book-inspired  Night Avenger . Ignition's film parodies work because 
 they're specific in what films they're targeting while also satisfying many broad Hollywood conventions. 
 Certain touches add to the fun, such as the stereotypical personalities of the different directors 
 and the trailers for the movies you're working on.  

  You'll have to take on six individual stunt sequences for each film you work on, and each sequence 
 goes on for several minutes. The sequences take place on big, serpentine sets dense with explosions, 
 other stunt drivers, crumbling buildings, and crazy set pieces, and you'll have to navigate these 
 big-budget obstacle courses while hitting specific stunts and keeping up the pace. Your stunts 
 are flagged onscreen with large yellow icons, and your stunt coordinator will also be calling them 
 out as you approach them. You'll take jumps, drive on two wheels, perform barrel rolls, pull wheelies, 
 drift around corners, bump into other cars, crash through props, chase other stunt drivers, and 
 more. In addition to your vehicle's innate abilities, there's the action button, which you'll use 
 at specific points to trigger events like explosions, weapon fire, a quick burst of nitro, or sliding 
 your motorcycle under an obstacle.  

  More often then not, the screen is filled with activity, which can make the action feel really 
 kinetic, but can also make it difficult to see where you're supposed to go next. This can be frustrating, 
 especially since the acceptable margin of error in Stuntman: Ignition is so thin. Miss a stunt 
 and you'll get a strike; get five strikes, and you'll have to reshoot the whole sequence from scratch. 
 There are other autofail conditions, like plunging your vehicle into water or hot lava, driving 
 off the set, or falling too far behind during a chase sequence. Fast reaction times are critical 
 in hitting a series of stunts one right after the other, but ultimately, each and every sequence 
 you'll take on will feature twists and turns that you simply cannot anticipate and will require 
 a certain level of memorization -- though this could also be said for just about any other racing 
 game. On the upside, the load time when restarting a sequence is almost instantaneous. Regardless, 
 the inherently repetitive structure of the game will leave some folks cold.  

  You're scored for your performance on each stunt sequence, and then assigned a star rating based 
 on that score. Your progress from one movie to another is throttled by your accumulated star rating, 
 though the star rating requirements on the first few movies are pretty easy; you'll be able to 
 scrape by with plenty of two-star performances. Eventually, though, you'll have to revisit stunts 
 to improve your star rating. While making good time and hitting your stunts are necessary to progress -- as 
 well as good ways to score points -- the real key to higher scores is stunt stringing, which isn't 
 entirely dissimilar from the boost system in the Burnout games, for example.  

  Performing stunts in quick succession will start a stunt string, and the score for the stunts within 
 that string will be multiplied by the number of stunts within that string, for as long as you can 
 keep the string going. This requires lots of relentlessly risky behavior like having close calls 
 with obstacles and other vehicles and drifting into turns as you make your way from one predefined 
 stunt to another to keep the string going. The stunt string system is interesting, and it's significant 
 to the lasting value of Stuntman: Ignition, because it adds a level of dynamism to what is otherwise 
 pretty static gameplay. If it were just a matter of hitting your marks, it would get old much sooner. 

  If you're still having a hard time raising your accumulated star rating by replaying previous stunts, 
 you can also take on odd jobs, such as participating in a stunt-driving exhibition at an amusement 
 park, or working on a TV commercial. While generally shorter than the average stunt sequence, the 
 odd jobs are even more unforgiving, as a single strike against your performance will end it. You 
 can play through every last stunt sequence in the career mode in a few hours, though it will take 
 you significantly longer than that if you want to wring a five-star rating out of every stunt sequence. 
 Every five-star rating requires you to maintain a single stunt string over the entire stunt sequence, 
 so good luck with that.  

  Outside the career mode there's a multiplayer mode, which includes two different race types. Backlot 
 battle focuses on performing as many stunts as possible within a set number of laps, while the 
 backlot race mode is a more straightforward race where you can earn bursts of nitro by doing stunts. 
 With eight-player online support on the PS3 and Xbox 360, these modes can get real chaotic, though 
 a short number of tracks curbs the lasting appeal. There's also a simple course constructor that 
 lets you lay down your own obstacle course, as well as some stand-alone stunt sequences. It's not 
 a hugely expansive game, but it's the kind of game you can easily lose a weekend to.  

           Now you've got a friend in the movie business!      

  Stuntman: Ignition is currently 
 appearing on the PlayStation 2, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360, and the differences among them are 
 about what we've come to expect. The PS3 and Xbox 360 versions are pretty comparable, though the 
 PS3 version features motion-based controls that are thankfully optional, as well as a little more 
 aliasing. The graphics are still pretty sharp across the board. There's loads of detail in the 
 vehicles, and the environments and the explosions look nice, though looking at the bigger picture, 
 what's really good about the visuals is how fully realized the visual style for each movie is. 
 The frame rate isn't always stable, and if you look beyond your immediate surroundings you might 
 notice some nasty textures, but these aren't critical issues. On the PS2 there's an appropriate 
 drop in visual fidelity, which means less texture detail, fewer cars on the road, and things of 
 that nature, though it's still a decent-looking game. The online functionality of the multiplayer 
 has been stripped out of the PS2 version, though. Surprisingly, the PS2 version actually loads 
 faster than the PS3 or Xbox 360 versions.  

  It's difficult to judge the quality of the sound effects in Stuntman: Ignition, because they are 
 almost always drowned out by the constant shouting of your stunt coordinator. The voice work isn't 
 bad per se, it's just that he shouts the exact same things at the exact same intervals on any given 
 stunt sequence, and having to hear it over and over again can be a little crazy-making. For what 
 it's worth, though, there's some nice, thematically appropriate music that accompanies each movie. 

  Stuntman: Ignition is a significant step up from its predecessor, and it's a pretty distinct experience 
 as far as driving games go. The fundamental structure of playing through the same stunt sequence 
 repeatedly will no doubt sour some, but if you can get past that, it can be a blast.  

      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: hockeykid7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 9:18 am PT
Review:  3 2 1 action use action smash the object. Thats what your stunt directer will say to you as you 
 star in movies filled with action. Stuntman Ignition is a game that shows the true style of racing 
 games. A great selection of cars and a great set of characters just adds to the epic movies you 
 star in. The game is not all stunts you can race in off and online multiplayer. Some cars even feature 
 guns that you fire in movies like Strike Force Omega. One down side to the game is there are no 
 many people online. If you are the creative type you can build your own stunt track or just smash 
 and crash on free run. It is basicly the same on xbox 360 just with more people online. My favourite 
 things about stuntman is the unique cars. I also like the rehersals because they help you practice 
 new stunts like the barrel roles abd 2 wheel drive. All in sumarization the game is JUST FUN TO 
 PLAY!!!
  
  good job THQ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dizzyman572
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 2, 2008 9:04 pm PT
Review:  In Stunt Man Ignition you drive, jump, drift and smash to create one of the best movies in Hollywood. 
 Stuntman does a great job on making you feel like you're in a Hollywood set; it also has pretty 
 good graphics as well. 
  
  When you're playing in a movie scene, you have to perform stunts that are colored yellow. You only 
 get 5 strikes until you're out and the director calls for a reshoot of the scene; you get seven 
 strikes if you do it in easy mode. Note: the stunts will start to turn red if you don't get to 
 them fast enough, don't ever let that happen. 
  
  There are these things called stunt strings, which gives you a reason to never stop moving in the 
 game. These stunt strings only last for 2 seconds, you keep the stunt string alive by driving close 
 to objects, drifting, jumping in the air, doing what your stunt coordinator says and so on. While 
 I'm talking about the stunt Coordinator, he's not that annoying at all, unlike my little brother, 
 TV commercials and every character in Cloverfield. 
  
  Before you start playing, they introduce you to the director of the movie.
  There are a grand 
 total of 6 movies in the game, Aftershock, Strike Force Omega, Night Avenger, Overdrive, Whooping 
 and a Hollering 2, and my favorite, Never Kill Me Again!
  The title of Never Kill Me Again, are the exact words I said to my ex-girlfriend when she broke 
 up with me. When you beat one of these movies, they'll reward you with a movie trailer. All of 
 these are little funny, except for Aftershock's trailer. 
  
  You can also do these things called: Odd Jobs. In this you play in commercials, you can't make 
 a single mistake in these odd jobs, but surprisingly their not that hard to beat. It's a shame 
 you can't stunt in one of those Tag commercials.
  
  You can also create your own maps with your props and stunts. The sad part is that there's only 
 one map to make these on, I would've like to make a map set in a snowy mountain like 'Never Kill 
 Me Again' was.
  
  There's also the option for multi-player, but it's not really that fun. You might play it with 
 a friend once or twice. Thrice? Good luck, after playing it two or more times it will start to 
 bore you. Now don't get me wrong, I'm not saying that anyone is lame because they played the multi-player 
 too many times. I'm just saying that I doubt you'll play it that many times. 
  
  Anyway, Stunt Man Ignition is one you'll probably want to rent first and the decision to buy it 
 or not, is entirely up to you.
  
  I give it 3 thumbs out of 5.
  
  P. S. I would've used stars, but they were already taken.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: travis73005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  The is by far the exponentially better than the previous Stuntman. i am so please with the graphics, 
 load times, chain stunts and other add-ons. 
  
  the most significant addition to this game is the reduced load times. that was definitely the achilles 
 heel of the franchise. I thoroughly enjoyed all the environments/movies and themes. a great selection 
 of vehicles and missions. They can be challenging, but there is no issue with wanting to restart. 
 
  
  Now focusing on some of the in depth gameplay; i have to say that the 'chain' stunts are a great 
 concept. basically, aside from the major stunts the director tells you to do, you can constantly 
 perform stunts to add 'multipliers' to your score. You find yourself purposefully driving close 
 to others, doing wheelies, and sliding to keep the intensity going. 
  
  The build your own stunt in the arena is a great concept, but for me, not functional. I don't want 
 to spend hours doing pointless stuff, but it is great fun with a group of friends, seeing who can 
 top the others stunt.
  
  there is a competitive mode as well where you race against other stuntmen for jobs/ bragging rights. 
 
  Very pleased, excellent game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stalemate99
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  Stuntman Ignition is simply an excellent game.
  
  You work as a Stuntman controlling a big variety of vehciles doing scenes from different films, 
 along with shows, commercials etc.
  
  There is also Multiplayer offline/online Contructor and Quick Fix (Kinda like free play)
  
 
  The single player is very packed it will take you a while to complete it and even longer if you 
 want yo get 5 stars on all scenes. The scenes never get boring because they can be different each 
 time, alot of replay value.
  
  The contucter mode if excellent, you either just create one just to ride in or you can take the 
 challenges, they give you the stuns and you have to build the stuff so that youre able to them, 
 a very fun concept.
  
  Up to 4 Player offline multiplayer and up to 8 online, the modes include races, Backlot Battle 
 (Races and Point Scoring) and Stunt Tourney which is you take turns to do a series of scenes and 
 the points rack up at the end.
  
  There is a very good Stat/Award/Badge system that gives you something to play for once youve complteted 
 it.
  
  The Graphics arent great, good enought but not amazing, the soundtrack is a bit lacking too.
 
  
  Overall an excellent very underrated addictive game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 1, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  When you play a driving game, for example, a driving mission on a James Bond game (I'm using this 
 as an example for a reason) , you end up doing quite a few stunts. Except there is nearly always 
 something missing. It doesn't feel right, and you aren't wowed away by doing stunts that look incredible 
 when done onscreen.
  
  This was my first thought when I started playing Stuntman Ignition. I thought to myself, this is 
 going to be a typical mission based driving game, where you pull off some crazy stunts, and then 
 instantly get bored.
  
  Oh, how I was wrong!
  
  I don't know whether it's because of the good graphics, or just because the producers are simply 
 doing something right, but you never EVER get bored.
  
  Talking about the graphics, they're near perfect. They look real enough, without looking so real 
 that you forget you're playing a game.
  
  The style of gameplay is extremely good. You're given a vehicle, be it a typical 1970s getaway 
 car, or a stunt bike, or a fire engine, or even a hovercraft, and you set off. On your first run, 
 you have no idea where you're going, or what to do. You can be driving down a crowded street, and 
 suddenly, the director yells Hard left! , or Jump the vehicle , and you have to do it, within a 
 set time, or distance. The chances are that you won't last long on your first run. After missing 
 5 stunts, you're forced to retake, and this time you know what to do where. This sounds tedious, 
 and you have to do each run about 20 times atleast before you master it, but it doesn't get boring.
 
  
  There are 6 films, each split up into six scenes. It doesn't sound much, but you won't run out 
 of things to do! There are also Odd Jobs, such as filming adverts, and doing stunt shows, all of 
 which get you better credit.
  
  The six films are as follows:
  
  Aftershock - Based on the film Volcano , seeing you jumping over lava, and through collapsing buildings.
 
  
  Whoopin' and a'Hollerin' 2 - Based on films such as Dukes of Hazord , which see you performing 
 crazy stunts, trying to upset the local sherrif.
  
  Strike Force Omega - An action film, which has you chasing after missiles, driving tankers, and 
 performing rolls.
  
  Overdrive - A 70s cop film, probably based on the likes of Starsky and Hutch .
  
  Never Kill 
 Me Again - A spy thriller, heavily based on the Bond film Die Another Day 
  
  Night Avenger - A super hero film, similar to the latest Spider-Man film, but mainly based on Batman 
 Begins.
  
  So, you have all of these to play at, but you also have creation mode, where you can build your 
 own stunt layouts, using ram, ps, piles of cars, explosions and different cameras, plus many more.
 
  
  Finally, the game holds a very solid muliplayer mode, which sees you competing against fellow stuntmen, 
 to try and get the most points!
  
  If you are a driving game entusiast, a film fan, or a heavy PlayStation gamer, you'd be best to 
 play it, just to see. If you're all three, then this will be the greatest game of your life! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 12:05 am PT
Review:  My last review until MGS4 comes out. Who ever says this game is a step up from the original is 
 wrong,
  surley in the graphics department but then thats expected.
  It doesnt do anything new but adds to what was already a great formula on ps2. I clap my hands 
 for the the developers keeping everything about stuntman intact. However i completed this game 
 within a few hours, not 100% though. The time i spent playing this game reflects how addictive 
 it is. As ever with stuntman also comes the frustration, which means trial and error but also that 
 1 more go playability which turns into many goes until you've cracked that stunt.
  Obtaining 100% takes a lot more effort however and adds replay value to each stunt. 3,2,1 - Its 
 as easy as that, fail or finish badly on a stunt and a press of the restart button puts you right 
 back into the action for that just 1 more go. (ahem)
  Initialy though, levels still have to load at first but are narrated by the stunt cordinator who 
 fills you in on each stunt. Not annoying and actually very helpful much like a rally co drivers 
 pace notes.
  
  Perfoming action after action keeps the need for accuracy high but easy to make mistakes so just 
 as well you can finish the game without maximum results. Easier than the original stuntman, the 
 frame rate is better than its predeccsor thanks to the extra processing power. The graphics are 
 very detailed and sharp, the vechicles have a weighty feel to them and the handling is much unchanged 
 from stuntman. Not a very long game but it does come packed with features, theres the extra replay 
 value to perfect your score, some extra stunts, the constructor mode returns (limited as usual) 
 and of course online which i havent played so cant judge that. Worth a rental at least. 
  Or if you're a fan of the DRIVER series, then this is deffinitiley worth checking out, if you haven't 
 played the original Stunatman already. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
