-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Surf's Up
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/surfsup/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Solid gameplay design complemented by a decent trick system.
 Good visuals and voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Championship mode can be beaten in 90 minutes, and there are barely any supplemental modes.
 Physics and animations can sometimes get kooky and glitchy.
 Lame soundtrack.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun  1, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.2
Critic Score: 5.8, 7 Review (s)
User Score: 6.4, 73 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Montreal
Genre: Surfing
Date: May 30, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Hanging 10 in this movie-licensed surfing game has its moments -- just don't expect to enjoy it for 
 very long. 

  Thank god for the occasional bucked trend. Surf's Up could very easily have been yet another lamely 
 produced platformer or action adventure game based on an animated film. Instead, it's an oddly 
 competent surfing game. The game eschews any attempts at retelling the film's story, and is instead 
 content to act purely as a companion piece, letting you play as all the key characters from the 
 film in a game that feels like a combo of Kelly Slater and Wave Race for kids. It's not a remarkable 
 game, but at times it can be a decent bit of fun. It's just a shame that it offers so little in 
 terms of content.  

          Surf's Up isn't remarkable, but it's a decent little surfing game; and hey, it beats the 
 heck out of T&amp; C Surf Designs any day.     

  Jumping into a game of Surf's Up is a little off-putting at first. Your chosen surfer essentially 
 travels through the level on rails, and it's up to you to guide him or her past the various obstacles 
 that litter the game's courses. All along the way, a constant wave moves along with you, and you 
 can use this wave to perform tricks. The trick system is rudimentary, only tasking you with moving 
 up the wave until you get to the peak, then jumping off by hitting one of the trick buttons. While 
 you're in the air, you can do one of several different trick types, from grab tricks to special 
 tricks that can only be performed once you've built up a special trick meter. This meter is also 
 tied to speed boosts, which you can use to power past certain obstacles or opponent surfers.  

 
  As you go, you'll also be trying to pass through various gates, collect power-ups, grind on various 
 rails, and occasionally go crashing through stuff. All these tricks net you points, and the goal 
 of most levels is to hit a certain point target. There are actually two point targets in each stage, 
 but you only have to hit the first to progress.  

  The trick system works fairly well, and the controls are solid. The Wii version is the only one 
 that deviates from the standard control scheme, but it doesn't go overboard with motion controls. 
 The only motion you use in the game is to swing the Wii Remote downward to engage a speed boost. 
 However, the one caveat is that the Wii version is also missing a trick type, seemingly because 
 of the controller's lack of buttons compared with all the other console versions. The Wii version 
 doesn't necessarily suffer because of this, as it's pretty easy to hit the score targets without 
 this trick type, but it does come off as lazy that no effort was made to keep the missing trick 
 in the game.  

  If there's any real complaint to be lobbied against the gameplay on all versions, it's that it's 
 occasionally bewildering. The tricks and other mechanics are quite simplistic, but getting your 
 surfer to engage in certain actions -- rail sliding, for instance -- is an inconsistent process. The 
 game is unpredictable with when it wants to magnetize you toward a rail to slide or have you miss 
 it altogether. You also may end up wrecking into a few more rocks or other immovable objects than 
 you'd prefer due to character movement not being quick enough or the sometimes-wonky physics pushing 
 you toward an object even though you were turning in the opposite direction. These issues don't 
 really make the game frustrating, as the difficulty is easy enough to where even crashing on a 
 regular basis doesn't detract from you passing a level. They're just kind of annoying.  

  The other issue of note with Surf's Up is that there's just nothing to it. The game's primary mode 
 is the championship mode, where you move from level to level, hitting the score targets and eventually 
 taking on the big kahuna of surfing, Tank, in the last stage. However, besting the championship 
 mode doesn't take more than an hour and a half the first time through. Granted, you won't collect 
 all the various idols and other hidden doodads in one play, but it's hard to imagine anyone taking 
 more than three or four hours to pull that off. Beyond this mode, there's a basic multiplayer mode 
 that's for two players on the Wii and PlayStation 2 and four players on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3. It's not online, and the number of maps you can race on is limited, but it's there. Finally, 
 there's a lame side game called Leaf Sliding, where you're lugging a big leaf down one of three 
 down-sloping courses. This mode is mildly amusing once, but that's about it.  

          If only there were more to do in the game thanwell, just this.     

  The game does 
 at least have some decent presentational values backing it up. The graphics aren't stellar, but 
 the characters look good, the water moves nicely, and some of the trick animations are pretty cool. 
 Other animations look stiff and glitchy, but not horrifically so. Of course, the 360 and PS3 versions 
 look significantly better than the Wii and PS2 versions, but for its hardware capabilities, the 
 Wii version actually looks quite good, too. The PS2 version is another story. The frame rate is 
 much choppier in that version, and all the neat little visual effects on the water and environments 
 are pretty much absent, making it look a lot blander than the other versions. The game's audio 
 is decent, mostly because some of the actors from the film reprise their roles here, albeit in 
 an extremely limited fashion. Most of the dialogue comes from little news blips that act as surf 
 reports before each stage, and though most of the jokes are pretty dumb, the voice acting isn't 
 half bad. Less entertaining is the soundtrack, which is mostly generic rock, including some exceedingly 
 generic songs from bands like Simple Plan and Homegrown.  

  Surf's Up deserves a bit of credit for turning in something that isn't just a cakewalk action platformer 
 that does a lousy job of retelling the film's story. Sure, it would have been nice if the developers 
 had included  any  story to speak of, but from a gameplay perspective, the surfing-on-rails mechanic 
 works better than you'd expect and provides periodic moments of legitimate fun. It won't appeal 
 much to older players, and regardless of which platform you pick it up on, it's not worth its overly 
 expensive price tag, given the barren amount of content the game offers up. But for younger kids 
 who dug the movie, you'll get everything you need out of Surf's Up over the course of a rental 
 period.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (3 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 14, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  Okay, this is another movie game, haha, do they get anoying or what? This game is based off the 
 movie Surf's Up. A few things I like about this game is the graphics and sound. They use great 
 details on the penguins and water and other things. It's sound quality is supringsly good. It uses 
 good dialog and doesn't really get anoying like the other boring movie games you played. The controls 
 in this game are tough. It takes you a while to get the hang of them. Beleive me, sometimes it 
 gets so bad... you want to throw your controller at the wall, haha. I just about did it. I wish 
 that the makers of movie games would put a little more effort into them so the old audience would 
 enjoy them too. So if you have a little brother or sister I would reccamend this game to them... 
 because they don't really care about the graphics, and controls, they just want to play. So thanks 
 but no thanks for making an okay game. 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cas007
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 31, 2007 3:49 am PT
Review:  I just got this game and wow its just seriously awsome!!!!!!!!!!
  This is a game for anyone who likes Tony Hawk or Skate. the gameplay is cool by the way that if 
 you get mad and turn the controller around it actually reacts (applies only on ps3) . the music is 
 awesome just like Tony Hawk's except its a bit of classic rock. The tricks are just insane!!!!!! 
 Mad 360 spins, and lots more. multiplayer is quite fun with a friend, after you beat the game you 
 can focus on leaderboards to be the top surfer and stay at the top. This game is  
 Trust me you will fall in love with it. Forget what Gamespot says about it, try some games and 
 see that gamespot's rating system is wrong. Come on anyone with me??? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 4, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  Surf's Up is a game based on the movie of the same name. Yeah, yeah, we all know the drill. All 
 movie based games suck. Well, this seemed like it when i picked it up for rentel on the PS3. Well, 
 it was suprising that i was having FUN with a movie-based game. That is pretty rare for me. But 
 it was short-lived, with the game being too short. The graphics are okay, they won't really push 
 the PS3 to the max, but, it is still okay. The charcters are all from the movie, so, if you haven't 
 seen the movie, you might as well go see it. If you have seen the movie, you will understand the 
 charcters, the locales, etc. The game starts of kinda on the same pace as the movie, you being 
 a penguin dreaming of surfing stardom. (There are three charcters to choose from in the begginning, 
 your stable will grow as you progress.) As to the sound, the crashing of waves is pretty cool. 
 Well it has a soundtrack but, just don't expect any big-name music stars to be on it. The soundtrack 
 is pretty lame, with the only real big name being Simple Plan. It also has a customizing board 
 feature, which is a pretty good nod to Tony Hawk's Underground from 2003. You can also customize 
 your charecter but, well, that again, is pretty shallow. You only get, like, four things to put 
 on your charcter, then again, is pretty lame. The replay value of Surf's Up is pretty low. There 
 is a pretty lame mini-game called Leaf Sliding, in which, well, the name pretty much says it all. 
 But during the main game, you can collect little idols and go for the high scores for that stage 
 but, yet again, is pretty shallow. There is also a cheesey rip off of ESPN called SPEN, which offers 
 nothing to the ears. All in all, Surf's Up is a good reminder of how good the movie is but, it 
 does not have any competiton for Ubisoft's other game, Blazing Angels. If you liked the movie, 
 like me, you will buy it, and maybe like it. But to others, the experience is just too short. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
