-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Bigs
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/thebigs/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fast-paced gameplay is a great alternative to the slower pace of sims.
 Pitching and hitting are equally satisfying.
 Home Run Pinball is a unique and fun minigame.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 A bit shallow, even for an arcade-style game.
 Fielding controls are poor.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 26, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.8, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 290 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Sports
Developer: Blue Castle Games
Genre: Baseball
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Big strikeouts and even bigger homers make The BIGS a great arcade baseball game. 

  As good as baseball games have gotten, many people feel that they're too complex and yearn for 
 the old days where you could play an entire game in 15 minutes but didn't have to have a college 
 degree to figure out the controls. If you've ever felt this way, or you just like fast-paced, over-the-top 
 baseball, The BIGS should be right up your alley.  

  The BIGS has a lot in common with Midway's Slugfest series; the games move along at a brisk pace 
 and there are plenty of gargantuan home runs, as well as some absolutely filthy pitches. On the 
 mound, each of your pitches is mapped to a face button on the controller. To throw a pitch, you 
 simply press the corresponding button and hold it until you've gone past the mark on the meter. 
 If you wait too long or release too early, your location will be off and you'll tip your pitch 
 to the batter. Each pitch is rated according to the pitcher's ability to throw it. This ability 
 decreases as the game goes on, but the change can be accelerated by giving up hits. The harder 
 the pitch is hit, the less effective it will be, and eventually, you'll lose the ability to throw 
 the pitch completely. This isn't a huge problem when playing a single game because you've got plenty 
 of pitchers at your disposal, but it's an issue in rookie challenge because a pitcher's stamina 
 level carries over from game to game.  

           Pitching is as much fun as hitting.      

  For every strike you throw, you'll fill 
 your turbo bar a little, and when you've filled one of your bars, you can press a button to activate 
 turbo. This adds some extra zip to your fastball and adds some break to your breaking pitches, 
 making them very difficult to hit. Above the turbo meter is the power-up meter. On defense, this 
 can be filled by striking out hitters, making great plays, and robbing home runs. Once it's full, 
 you can use it on either offense or defense for one at-bat. When it's used on defense, your pitches 
 are all powered up and nearly (but not quite) unhittable. You'll also steal some of the points 
 from the opposition's power-up meter depending on how many strikes you throw. Even when you're 
 tossing regular pitches, it's a blast because the pitches are so darn nasty.  

  Hitting is just as simple and just as satisfying as pitching. You've got one button for a contact 
 swing and one for a power swing. You don't have to worry about lining up cursors or using the analog 
 stick to try to match the pitch location -- it's all about timing. The left analog stick can be used 
 to aim your shot, but there's no reason to be intimidated -- it's easy to do and not all that necessary. 
 You can earn turbo by taking balls, but the pitches move so fast and break so much that judging 
 location is nearly impossible unless the pitcher tipped his pitch.  

  The turbo that you've accumulated on defense carries over to when you're on offense though, so 
 you'll get plenty of chances to use it. If you activate it before a pitch, you'll add some power 
 to your swing and force the pitcher to throw a strike. If you use it after you've hit the ball, 
 you can run extra fast. While you might not be able to fill your turbo meter much on offense, you 
 can increase your power-up meter fairly quickly by getting base hits, walking, or getting beaned. 
 Activating your big hit power-up will guarantee a home run, provided you make contact. But this 
 isn't just any old home run, it's a titanic blast that will spark as it hits the fair pole or explode 
 when it hits the scoreboard. It would have been nice to have a bit more variety with regards to 
 where the ball goes when it's hit because it seems to go to the same few spots over and over again. 
 It also would have been nice to not get home runs taken away by the CPU several times in a game 
 (even when you use turbo to hit) , but for the most part, hitting is a lot of fun.  

           Even Chris Berman would get tired of saying 'Back, back, back' when calling some of these 
 blasts      

  Where The BIGS stumbles a bit is in its fielding and base running. Once you've practiced (and when 
 it works) mashing a button to run faster and using buttons to select the runner, moving the analog 
 stick to direct them works OK, but too often the runners don't make the turn when you want them 
 to or they stop in their tracks just shy of the base. The ability to run full-speed into the catcher 
 like a freight train is totally awesome the first time you see it and makes up for some of the 
 base running woes, but not all of them. The rest of the game is so simple you wonder why base running 
 is so complicated. In the field, you can use boost to run faster or throw the ball faster, but 
 the game plays so fast that you'll rarely have time to discern that you need turbo and press the 
 button before it's too late. You can rob home runs by running up to the wall, pressing a button 
 to jump, and then replicating a sequence of button presses shown onscreen. But unless you're playing 
 another person, these opportunities are few and far between.  

  Once the ball is hit, you're given control over the player in the best position to make a play, 
 but the ball is hit so hard that it's often already passed you by the time you figure out who you're 
 controlling. This issue is exacerbated by a fielder's inability to change direction quickly; if 
 you take one step in the wrong direction, you can forget about getting to the ball in time. Finally, 
 the plays where the ball hits a fielder, knocking him down as it ricochets away are far too common 
 and are all the more frustrating thanks to the lousy fielding controls. But even these issues don't 
 prevent the game from being a ton of fun to play.     

  There's no traditional season mode in The BIGS. Instead there's the rookie challenge, where you 
 create a player then try to lead him and his team to the World Series. There aren't a whole lot 
 of customization options with which to create a player, though additional items unlocked throughout 
 the mode let you add a little flair. Once you've picked your player's position and distributed 
 some attributes, it's off to spring training. Here, you'll play a couple of games; based on your 
 performance, you'll earn points that can be used to improve your players' running, hitting, and 
 fielding abilities. You'll also participate in some fun minigames, such as batting practice and 
 running an obstacle course. You earn big points for successfully completing these drills, which 
 is good because the points you get from playing actual games don't amount to much.  

  After you've finished spring training, you must barnstorm your way around the league, taking on 
 whatever games appear on the map. Sometimes you'll have to play a full (five inning) game, while 
 other times, you are placed in a situation where the game has already started and you must perform 
 a task with your created player, such as steal a base, drive in a run, or get a base hit. After 
 you've beaten the first few challenges against a team, you'll get the opportunity to steal one 
 of its players if you beat that team in yet another a full game. You can only steal 10 players, 
 so you might want to hold off on snagging someone from the Devil Rays or you might not have room 
 for someone on the really good teams that you'll encounter later in the rookie challenge. As you 
 finish the available games and scenarios, new ones will open up. Then eventually, you'll take part 
 in the All-Star game, and if you're good enough, the playoffs and World Series.  

           Fielding is one area where the game stumbles.      

  The rookie challenge is quite 
 a bit of fun for a while, but you'll find that you've seen most everything it has to offer in just 
 a few hours. Because this is an arcade-style game, it would be unreasonable to expect a whole host 
 of general manager options and full stat tracking, but it wouldn't be unreasonable to expect at 
 least some customization options or some basic statistics. Alas, there are none. As a result, you 
 might find yourself rushing through games or even getting yourself out on purpose because there 
 aren't any rewards (other than minimal points for your created player) for playing well and crushing 
 the competition.  

  The BIGS is light on additional play modes, but what is here is good. Home run pinball drops you 
 right in the middle of Times Square, and your objective is to do as much damage as possible by 
 hitting balls into neon signs, taxi cabs, or huge televisions. It starts off easy enough, but it 
 quickly gets tough when the pitcher adds a new pitch to his repertoire every minute or so. There's 
 also a bit of strategy to employ because you can earn bonuses for hitting all of the letters in 
 the "HOTEL" sign, and once powered up, you can smash the new year's eve ball. Once you've finished 
 a round, your score is uploaded to an online leaderboard for all to see. If you prefer to hit in 
 a stadium, you can take on another player in a split-screen home run derby where the objective 
 is to be the first to hit 10 taters. Both the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 have basic online options 
 that let you play a ranked or unranked match. Unfortunately, lag and frequent hiccups make the 
 online games significantly less fun than offline contests.  

  Most likely, the first thing you'll notice upon starting a game is that the players are absolutely 
 huge. Their faces are detailed and in most cases look like their real-life counterparts. But their 
 bodies are larger than life, and their muscles are ripped. Even normally scrawny players like Ichiro 
 look like superheroes, though there is still a little difference between him and someone like Albert 
 Pujols. There's not such a dramatic difference between the stadiums in the game and real stadiums, 
 but some artistic license has been taken with the proximity of local landmarks to the field, as 
 well as the size of notable features inside the stadium. A few issues prevent the game from looking 
 as good as it probably could have looked. For example, the lighting is poorly done. It's so intense 
 that it frequently washes out colors and gives players an odd sheen that makes their uniforms look 
 as if they're made of rubber. Some of the animations, such as when a player spins around after 
 missing a pitch or how a second baseman floats in midair in slow motion as he turns two, look great, 
 but there isn't enough variety. The transition from one animation to the next is also often awkward 
 or nonexistent, particularly when fielding. The huge home runs look fantastic, and it's awesome 
 to watch the scoreboard explode, but you'll probably find yourself wishing for more variety rather 
 than player celebrations, or at the very least, more destruction from your homers.  

           Players are so buff, they'll be testifying about steroids in front of Congress in no time. 

  Given the over-the-top nature of the game, it's probably a good idea that the outstanding but somewhat 
 mild-mannered duo from MLB 2K7 Jon Miller and Joe Morgan aren't calling the action. Instead it's 
 Damon Bruce, a radio host for KNBR out of San Francisco who calls the action. Outside of a few 
 instances where he blurts out the wrong player's name, his basic play-by-play is on point and his 
 energy level is high, though not to the point of being annoying. The crowd and the sound effects 
 are also typical for a baseball game. The exceptions to this are the nicely fitting, almost cartoonlike 
 sounds of the bat crushing the ball and the sound of a pitch whooshing past a hitter. Fans of grunge-era 
 rock will enjoy the soundtrack, which features artists like Stone Temple Pilots and Screaming Trees. 

  With its simple, yet exciting gameplay, The BIGS has gotten off to a great start. It's a bit shallow, 
 with some room for improvement in regards to how it plays in the field and on the base paths, but 
 anyone looking for a fun, arcade-style baseball game would do well to give The BIGS a shot.    
  
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (6 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Froman2000
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The Bigs is pretty good. I could be better, but it is really good. i really like the way that you 
 can power up in this game. youa are able to gain points which inable you to use desigrated powers. 
 you can make amazing diving catches, while hitting home runs over 500 feet. my favorite part about 
 this game is the story mode. you can make a guy according to the possition that you want him to 
 play. then you can upgrade him by doing training camp. you earn points by doing the training camp, 
 then you can upgrade your guy by seed, strength, contact and so on 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 9:53 am PT
Review:  The Bigs is a great nod to the Slugfest days, with 100-mph fastballs, awesome home runs, and more. 
 I am going to focus on the Xbox 360, PS3 and Wii version for the review. The turbo meter is great 
 becuase that will make your pitches blaze by, and that is cool. You also get points, and when a 
 points bar is filled by doing things like striking out the batter or making a home-run robbing 
 catch, you can do a hit that gives you a automatic home run. Sweet! Also, there is a minigame were 
 you rip balls a new one in wait for it....... Times Square. Now that is a minigame i tells ya! 
 But, the career mode is really shallowbecuse you don't partake into a good-old fashion season. 
 You have to objectives before you can move on to the next city. Lame! All in all, 2K made a greaaat 
 arcade baseball game, and it might beat out 2K's other baseball seris. It has a unique, charm that 
 arcade basball players (People who liked Slugfest.) will fall in love with this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JM420
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 16, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  I Literally enjoy this game so much its hard to put down i cannot understand why this doesn't have 
 a 9.0 rating at least, its such a great game, i look forward to a line of these games, the rookie 
 mode is great, along with the home run pinball mode, along with the dueling Home Run Derby with 
 the bonus pitches, the explosions &amp; the graphics alone are very well put together, wish there 
 was some sorta other season mode, but beyond that its a great game. i would definately check this 
 out if you haven't yet. If You Enjoy Baseball and Arcade Type Games, This Game IS PERFECT for you. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ccy3005
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 11, 2007 4:58 am PT
Review:  Pretty exciting for a baseball game. 2k put a nice spin on a somewhat boring sports game to play. 
 Rookie mode is what you'd expect. well done with some interesting mini-games to build attributes. 
 I know it may sound dumb but i really like the ability to swagger the bat before you swing. That 
 being said Home Run Pinball is the **** very addictive mode. All of my friends that tried it were 
 hooked, great party game to chill have a couple wobbly pops and try to catch that SOB that somehow 
 managed to get 1.8 million as a high score. .. cheers. , and heres hoping 2K comes out with new 
 downloadable levels for the pinball minigame... lovin it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KiwiStalk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  Does exactly what the game is proposed to do: The summer blockbuster action version of a Baseball 
 sim. And yes, it does it very well, however, there is one big glaring flaw: the fielding controls 
 are poorly documented and frustrating to figure out. Once to figure out actually HOW to control 
 your runners and control your fielders, it's a suberp game. The minor flaw I do hold as unsatisfactory 
 is the fielder AI strangely won't pickup a ball that's been knocked out of a player's hand: you 
 have to press L1 and select a guy to go get it because the computer won't force players to go after 
 the fallen ball.
  
  Graphics are great (read up to par with everything else out there) , it sounds fantastic (music 
 could have a little more variety) , online is so-so but fun, offline multiplayer is awesome, and 
 controls are precise if strange at time.
  
  Recommended for those that wanna learn to play Baseball in 30 minutes, hit homers out of the park 
 and onto cars, Jackie Chan jump to catch low home-runs, knock a baseman off his feet for a close 
 save, hear the rather cool commentator say to the world your super Turbo Triple was out of this 
 world, create your own player in your favorite team... oh yeah, and PLAY BASEBALL!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 30, 2007 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Put them together you get the Bigs. If you're looking for a lot of fun and great graphics mixed 
 with good gameplay than you should pick up the Bigs. This game is just baseball great plays and 
 super moves by the players. All the Teams are here from the major leagues. You have 5 options in 
 the game once you start it up. You have a play now, exhibition, rookie chanllenge, home run derby, 
 and home run pinball. Rooke chanllenge is where you'll spend most of your time in this game. You 
 will create a player from scratch and help him out to make it to the bigs and go on to win the 
 world series. The graphics in this game are great all the players look the their real life counterpart. 
 The only thing is not all the complete rosters from all the team are there. There are some pitchers 
 and bench players missing. The sound and special effects in this game are fantastic and it's really 
 satisfying when you make a great play or hit a homerun breaking the scoreboard and the leaving 
 the mark on there through out the game. Also when you're playing a game it's usually up to 5 inning 
 instead of 9. If you're looking for an arcade type of baseball game with great gameplay and fun 
 factor up to the ceiling you should definitely pick up this game. Is a great game to play with 
 your friends one on one and online as well. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
