-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Club
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/theclub/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The urge to go back to beat scores becomes overwhelming.
 The balance between style and survival is just right.
 Characters and zones are well designed artistically.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The weapons feel underpowered in multiplayer.
 Gunfire sounds lacklustre.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Feb 20, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.4, 40 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 405 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Bizarre Creations
Genre: Modern Shooter
Date: Feb 19, 2008
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Club provides some old-school single-player thrills, but it fails to live up to its initial 
 promise. 

  The Club is an old-school shooter. It emphasises single-player action over multiplayer competition 
 and encourages near-endless replaying to beat that elusive high score, but while it's good enough 
 to keep you coming back, it is far from perfect. The game's premise is a simple one. The eponymous 
 Club is a powerful collection of super-rich, morally bankrupt individuals who have decided to run 
 their own personal worldwide blood sport  la  Running Man . Eight contestants are (mostly) forced 
 to compete against one another in various locations. You play as any one of them and must try to 
 win the most events in each locale. There are six characters available at the start, plus a seventh 
 unlocked after four tournaments and another after you beat them all. While these characters have 
 distinct looks, they play only slightly differently; some can take more punishment and others move 
 slightly faster  

           Your score for each kill is determined using a number of different criteria.      

 
  The way to win each event is simple: He who finishes with the most points wins. Points are awarded 
 for kills, with distribution based on the accuracy of your shooting, the toughness of the enemy 
 in question, and the weapons being used by both you and your mark. To spice things up a bit, every 
 kill causes your score multiplier to tick up by one, but if you wait too long between kills, this 
 multiplier starts to fade away. You also get bonus points for style: shooting someone as you roll 
 to dodge fire or as you burst through doors, or shooting from long range. You can also boost your 
 multiplier -- and refresh the timer -- by shooting wall-mounted skulls, which are placed in various 
 locations around the level. The higher your multiplier the faster it ticks down, so even with a 
 constant stream of willing casualties it's hard to get the multiplier much over 30.  

  This scoring system leads to tactical nuances that add an interesting layer of challenge to the 
 game. For example, when you're confronted by a group of enemies, you can take out insignificant 
 minions with pistols first, leaving those who can actually do damage for last. This means you rack 
 up the multipliers on lower-scoring enemies, and so get more points in total by multiplying the 
 bigger scores more. This can make life trickier in the long run but is one of several counterintuitive 
 things you can do to rack up more points.  

  There are five event types, and each location features up to seven different events. Three event 
 types involve more-traditional running, while two are static. The simplest of these is sprint, 
 in which you need to get from one end of a set course to another while scoring as many points as 
 possible. Run the gauntlet is essentially the same, but with a time limit -- generally around the 
 two-minute mark -- while time attack has you running two or three laps of a course, killing enemies 
 and collecting items to add time to your clock. The static modes -- survivor and siege -- force you 
 to stay in a set area as enemies pour in from all angles, and the goal is simply to survive until 
 the timer runs out. The only difference between survivor and siege is that in siege you find yourself 
 in an exposed position where enemies try to pick you off from range, while in survivor you will 
 end up fighting in much closer quarters.  

  The levels, with names such as Gondola in 60 Seconds, Diagnosis Girder, and The Crate Escape, are 
 varied, despite the fact that courses in each zone often share elements. The survivor and siege 
 levels, for example, almost always take place in areas you simply ran through before, but they 
 have additional barricades and helpful items. The three other event types also often share elements, 
 which gives you the sense that the levels are part of a tournament in a larger space, instead of 
 being unrelated individual courses. The tournament locations are fairly varied visually and include 
 such environments as a ruined steel mill, a decaying cruise liner, and an abandoned English manor 
 that doubles as a home for the criminally insane. Despite the significant superficial differences, 
 the environments are just combinations of rooms and corridors with few open spaces, and they demand 
 no real variations in play style.  

           While some of the locations look good, they don't make many tactical demands.      

 
  Some of the locations are impressive, however. One is set on a rusting cruise liner docked off 
 the African coast and provides several noteworthy moments. The Venice siege level features the 
 most impressive piece of destructible environment in the game -- assuming you have the accuracy to 
 shoot a rocket out of the air -- and the Manor House survivor level is likely to give even the most 
 hardened shooter fan something of an adrenaline kick  

  The weapons suffer from similar issues as the levels; while there are a few standout weapons, a 
 lack of nonsuperficial variation hurts the game. There are 15 weapons available, including two 
 pistols (one of which is the aptly named Magnum-like Callahan) , shotguns, machine guns, a sniper 
 rifle, a rocket launcher, and a minigun. Regardless of what is to hand, you are likely to find 
 yourself using the machine guns wherever you can and feeling frustrated when none are available; 
 their power and rate of fire make them unbeatable when it comes to racking up headshots.  

  Combat in The Club feels a little dated, despite the score-based innovations. The lack of a cover 
 mechanic stands out, given the game's fast run-and-gun style, especially in the siege and survivor 
 events, where cover is temptingly provided but impossible to properly use.  

  Melee combat is an option if you're backed into a tight corner, but it simply involves lashing 
 out at random with the butt of your weapon. This is particularly odd considering the game's emphasis 
 on killing with style and the fact that a number of the characters have useful melee weapons slung 
 about their person -- one has an ice axe, another a machete, and a third a truncheon.  

           The lack of a good cover mechanic is painful at times.      

  The game offers four 
 different single-player difficulty levels that ramp up nicely, forcing you to rethink your strategy 
 with each successive level. While this will keep you coming back to The Club, the multiplayer won't. 
 The levels feel too large, the weapons feel unbalanced, and the frustration of being able to shoot 
 someone repeatedly in the face and see that person walk away as you collapse is unspeakable. The 
 return of four-player split-screen offline play is welcome, but again, the game itself means even 
 this touch fails to fulfill its potential.  

  Technically the game's graphics hold up well; the frame rate is consistent throughout, and the 
 game looks good -- it's nothing spectacular, but it sits well enough among its contemporaries. The 
 audio quality is inconsistent, however. Your enemies will shout at you and at each other, and these 
 shouts vary with locale -- the various English accents from the Manor House zone are a highlight -- but 
 the weapon fire sounds universally poor and lifeless.  

  As a whole, The Club's single-player content just about works as an old-fashioned shooter that 
 isn't shy about its old-school roots, but it suffers from a lack of variation in its level, weapon, 
 and character design. It's still good enough to keep you coming back to try to beat that last high 
 score in a manner that may not be familiar to anyone under the age of about 25, and for that the 
 game deserves praise despite its multiplayer shortcomings.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (26 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wwefanforlife
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 14, 2009 3:47 am PT
Review:  The Club developed by Bizarre Creations and Published by Sega has 8 men fighting out in order to 
 be the best in The Club. The game of the Club has you going around prisons, old warehouse, manor 
 house and such which you have to kill people to score points. The idea behind this game I have 
 to say is weird but it's not that bad.
  
  The game has different stages such as Sprint this has you going around the stage where you have 
 to score as much as possible, Siege is the mode i hate your in a area a marked area and if you 
 leave you have about 5 seconds to get back into the marked area or you will die you must stay in 
 the area and kill as many people possible oh but the people are all over around you, Time Attack 
 has you doing laps you have to survive and gain as much points possible, Survivor has you scoring 
 as much as you can within the time limit if not then you fail, the final mode is Run the Gauntlet 
 you have to sprint through the level as fast as possible.
  
  The game is an arcade shooter and if you enjoy those this may be your type of game I found this 
 a decent game but I mostly recommend this for online play which still gets used which I am surprised 
 as it's not really a popular game (online is always busy) . 
  
  Online is good but can be hard the guns are always in the same place they never change and one 
 thing I hate is spawn killing and trust me it happens quite a bit. If people know the map inside 
 and out and know where the good guns are you really don't stand a chance while fighting unless 
 you get a good shot at the head. Online features 8 modes my favorite has to be Team Fox Hunt what 
 you have to do is look for the fox in the game and kill that person. Free for all death matches 
 in the prison is one of my favorites only thing I hate is people trying to get the sniper riffle 
 or rocket launcher. One thing I will tell you team matches are quite bad take this you spawn then 
 a player from the team is waiting for you to come back it gets annoying and it happens all the 
 time you spawn in the same place in team battles. The prison is the most popular map that people 
 chose it's actually good one though I quite like the bunker map. The maps are quite big the only 
 map I hate most in the warzone can be easy to get lost around it. 
  
  Getting online is easy hardly any wait times just enter a match and your straight in the match 
 which you can join a match that is already going which is good as it is fast. I have actually read 
 others have problems with online saying it's not busy The Club is region blocked if your in Europe 
 it's actually quite busy as many people still day the same people play it daily. Beware The Club 
 online can be frustrating.
  
  The soundtrack is something I really did like about the game and personally it suits the game very 
 well and I think the great Richard Jacques did a good job with it. Jesper Kyd known for his music 
 on the Hitman series and music on Assassin's Creed did the great music that is the main theme song 
 which can be herd on loading screens and on the main menu.
  
  This is a decent game I got it pre-owned for 8 and it's quite good I like the theme music and 
 the characters I found were great I did like Kuro, Seager and Nemo. Overall the graphics are not 
 fantastic a bit PS2 style then PS3 however this game is quite fun if you see it cheap I recommend 
 it. Bizarre Creations are on to something good with this game and if they improve on it and make 
 a sequel I think it could be even better for one thing as I said the characters are great. 
  
  The Club may not be the best title out on PS3 but I have played worse and I wouldn't say it's 
 the worst PS3 game currently out however for 8 it's worth it I have had a lot of fun out of it.
 
  
  That's all I can really say as it really has a plot to sum up this it is a crazy game.
  
  Good: The Music is great from the theme song to the in game music I like it all, The characters 
 are good, Online is quite fun and also has a a lot of good maps, controls work well I found them 
 easy to get used to.
  
  Bad: Spawn Kills happen to often, no records for online multiplayer, Graphics are not up to PS3 
 standards.
  
  I recommend buying this game mostly for it's online play but I know people won't agree with me 
 as most just haven't been online with The Club. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tonyf55
Rating: 4.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 9:30 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 4/10
  The Club was decieving. Before purchasing the game I had the idea it was a Deathmatch shooter like 
 Unreal Tournament, with varying shooters of varying skill levels all duking it out in an area style 
 battlefield. I was VERY wrong. The Club is an arcade shooter that offers some cheap thrills. Each 
 map makes you run a set circuit (like a racing game) around the map, taking out generic enemies, 
 scoring points for how quickly, and with how much style you take out your enemies. This circuit 
 style shooter (is that even a genre?) is quickly put aside for something more entertaining. All 
 maps end up feeling very much the same as the tasks you are completeing on them is essentially 
 the same. The guns are uninteresting, the tasks are boring; and even the characters (who seem so 
 COOL in the videos) get mediocre very very quickly.
  
  One thing I cannot comment to is the online play as I never had a chance to experience the online 
 play. No one is online anymore to play it so the online play is essentially obsolete.
  
  Sound: 5/10
  Nothing amazing about the sound in this game, but nothing terrible either. The music 
 and sound effects did nothing to enhance the game and when a game is this uninteresting, good sound-effects 
 could have made all the difference. Sub-par to average at best.
  
  Graphics: 3/10
  This shooter exhibits graphics seen on the later PS2 games released. It most definetally does NOT 
 take advantage of the PS3's amazing graphics engine. Characters look blocky and uncoordinated, 
 colors and very standard and levels look very blocky. Since you are running circuits around levels 
 killing generic enemies, the enemies all end up looking identical as there is about 10 enemies 
 present in the whole game. Very sub-par for a game released on the playstation 3, esspecially with 
 preview videos with great graphics to show.
  
  Value: 3/10
  This is being generous as I would not replay this game. I barely made it through 3 maps and that 
 was a struggle in itself. The only value I found was I purchased the game for $10.00 so I feel 
 like I didn't lose much in the purchase.
  
  Tilt: 4/10
  As for my own enjoyment of the game, it is fun for about the first half an hour until you realize 
 you are repeating the same motion and essentially the same tasks in the same manner over and over 
 again. Save $10.00 and wait till a great game reduces in price.
  
  Overall: 4.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan6433
Rating: 5.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 3:32 pm PT
Review:  This game was a horrible disappointment considering the interesting, though cliche (see Running 
 Man, The Condemned, Surviving the Game, and any other movie where morally devoid bourgeois capture 
 and force the dregs of society to participate in life or death competitions) , premise.
  
  Choose one character from a group of six homicidal maniacs. Two more fighters can be unlocked to 
 play later in the game. You run your character through a gamut of different settings and gameplay 
 styles, like timed survival and run-and-gun challenges, striving to get a higher score on each 
 level, by chaining kills and getting accuracy bonuses, than the other players. So far, this game 
 seems like it's going to be a super-bad@$$, ultra-violent blast from gaming's mindless shoot-em-up 
 past. "Mindless" is a key word when describing this game. See also "frustrating" and "nauseating."
 
  
  In trying to capture realistic ballistics physics, the game only succeeds in making the weapons' 
 upward inertial barrel movement ridiculously frustrating, unlike in other games, like rainbow six 
 vegas 2, where the mechanics are realistic but still manageable. If you want to have a chance of 
 taking down the hordes of inept, gats-cocked-sideways gang bangers that you're up against, you'd 
 better aim knee-high, because before you let off ten rounds, you're nearly shooting at the ceiling. 
 
  
  Not too mention the guns all sound like the cap guns you used to play with as a kid, and they seem 
 to do very little damage. I mean, come on! The game is a shooter! The guns should be one of the 
 most important things to get right. 
  
  The graphics are pretty lackluster, as well, especially for a next-gen game. I felt like I was 
 playing through a game that would have been better suited to have been released on PS2.
  
  The game controls are fairly simple, but if only controlling your character was as simple. You'll 
 find yourself running and firing blindly, sprinting uncontrollably past important exits and stair 
 ways. And good luck landing a melee attack. You may find yourself whiffing three or four times 
 to either side of one of your enemies and having him blast you at point blank range before finally 
 landing a buttstock across his face.
  
  The missions are pretty difficult, and that may be one of the few allures of this game: the impulse 
 to try to beat the last level that kicked your butt or to try to top your last score on a previously 
 beaten level.
  
  Overall the most disappointing part of the game is that it could've been such a cool game! Maybe 
 by the time the Club 2 comes out, they will have worked out all of the kinks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:00 am PT
Review:  Bizarre Creations is best-known for the Project Gotham Racing franchise, so it's not surprising 
 that The Club, one of the few detours the Liverpool, England-based developer's taken since PGR 
 debuted in 2001, shows ample evidence of the studio's racing roots. At first glance, the game's 
 premise seems straight out of a cheesy mid-'90s action flick: a group of eight gun-and-grenade-totin' 
 thugs compete in an underground bloodsport for the amusement of a disembodied British voice. In 
 reality, though, the game's an uneasy fusion between racer and shooter -- with inspiration, appropriately 
 enough, taken from the mid-'90s classic PC fragfest Team Fortress. 
  
  From the start it's clear this isn't quite the shooter you're used to. It's not about racking up 
 the most kills; it's about keeping combos going and making your way through checkpoints before 
 time runs out. In theory, you'd think that would add some excitement to the played-out shooter 
 genre. In practice, however, it unfolds as a series of repetitive beat-the-clock challenges. The 
 combo-based scoring system is a nice touch, but the goals in each area are pretty much the same; 
 you aren't doing anything on the boat level that you didn't already do on the warehouse level. 
 Also, putting the pedal to the metal and trying to beat the clock works in racing games because 
 we all drive. Who hasn't gripped their steering wheel on a freeway straightaway and felt the urge 
 to crank up the speed? Racing games like Burnout and PGR allow us to act out that fantasy. But 
 who among us has held a gun, itching to go on a guns-blazing race through an abandoned warehouse? 
 And it doesn't help that so many of the area layouts are confusing as hell, with rogue stairwells 
 extending every which way. 
  
  I also didn't find a kindred spirit in any of the game's eight protagonists, a standard collection 
 of cheesy action-film tropes -- perhaps intentionally dopey, yes, but these don't even reach so-bad-it's-good 
 status. A high-stakes Irish-American gambler? A hard-nosed African-American cop? A dreadlocked 
 "extreme sports" maven? Can't we get a little more imaginative than these? Single-player also isn't 
 a "story" mode, per se -- you don't really learn anything about these characters as you're making 
 your way through their quests. 
  
  Though the developers clearly thought melding racers and shooters was a clever twist, I enjoyed 
 the parts of The Club that didn't include these elements. The best segments in single-player mode 
 focus not on trying to race through confusing corridors but in trying to fend off an unrelenting 
 enemy onslaught. Where The Club really shines, though, is in its imaginative multiplayer match 
 options. I especially liked Hunter Hunted, which pits one player against the seven other combatants. 
 Get killed, and it sets off a deadly game of tag -- a welcome change from the typical deathmatch/capture-the-flag 
 convention of most shooters. Online play also flows smoothly.
  
  The Club does get points for trying to do something a little different with tired shooter conventions 
 -- at the very least, this isn't the same space-marine-infested crap you've played a thousand times 
 before. But it's also proof that just because something works in one genre doesn't mean it belongs 
 in another. I can't recommend the weak single-player mode, but the multiplayer left me surprisingly 
 satisfied. 
  
  Overall, 7/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 6, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  The Club.... really doesn't get any simpler than what you read and see on the back of the game case..... a 
 third person shooter which haves you easily taking down mass' upon mass' of dumb-founded AI nobodies 
 with guns that sound like they shoot popcorn instead bullets.
  
  The real reason why i purchased such an un-appealing game was because mainly it was the best i 
 could find at the price range i had carrying around at the time though for 18 quid i tink it did 
 live up to its value, though just, any penny higher and i probably would of seen it as day-light 
 robbery.
  
  Anywhoo now that the introduction is done and gone onto the gameplay.
  Now the gameplay is basically just a recycled version of many a 3rd person shooter though this 
 time without a cover-mechanic, which these days is certaintly unique but still not prefered...
 
  Playing through the tournament you choose a character from the selection of an intial 6 (eventually 
 adding up to 8) , but sadly even though for a game like this 8 is a nice amount of playable characters, 
 that would of obviously bin true if there really was some difference between the roster. Sure they 
 do all look very different with there nationalities (surprisingly no british playable characters.... well 
 of course that belongs to the creepy Club President with his phony posh accent... seriously if America 
 had its way the whole UK would be filled with scheming posh tw@s bent on world domination.) and 
 dress sense, though the uniquiety ends there.... they all claim to have there own strengths in the 
 sense that someone might be able to take more damage while another might be a faster runner but 
 when it comes down to it there all essentially the same and won't really require any different 
 tactics when taking them down the pathways of the Club, so its mainly all down to your taste's 
 of how you want to look when blasting popcorn through a whole battalion of guys (no girls?? The 
 Club sexist much?) .
  
  There is around seven different game types though they all boil down to two, one has you running 
 through a fairly linear battleground trying to rack up your score and keeping a look out for skull 
 slates or time slates, while the other has you stuck in a convined area with the goal of trying 
 to survive till the timer reachs zero with you again trying to rack up your score and kill list 
 while keeping a look out for the skull slates. Throughout the tournament you will be traversing 
 through some very varied and atmospheric looking enviroments which can really help to tone down 
 the repetition... though sadly only slightly, they can range from an abandonded old English Manor 
 to a run down old Prison. In a nutshell....., and also a football stadium, thats basically the whole 
 gameplay in and out, though there is a nice amount of weaponry that can help in suited situations 
 such as the shotgun coming in handy for the survival missions, but they all seem to sound the same 
 and even the Gatling Gun feels rather flat when unleaching its menacing amount of ammo through 
 the battleground.
  
  Onto to sound as i've stated before is a let down due to the weapons crappy sound effects and besides 
 the British president of The Club there isn't any dialoque between the main characters besides 
 a few grunts and screams here and there, though the enemies do have there own lines and some appriotatly 
 fit such as them screaming 'Why won't you die?!?' which is very true and maybe even a little tongue 
 in cheek since while they die with around 1-4 shots of any weapon you can seem to withstand a whole 
 army full of crap and bullets before eventually succumbing to death.
  
  The multiplayer though does have some potential for some entertainment but that too was very dissapointing 
 in the fact they all have the players against each other in some mundane matchs.... such as maybe 
 one team is cornered off and must stay alive as long as they can against the other team of players. 
 Honestly i was hoping for maybe a co-operative survival mode against a massive amount of AI's would 
 of been better at least for the split-screen mode.
  
  Besides the tournament and possibly running through it again with another character, when you've 
 beaten the top scores (which is at least very hard to accomplish) there's not much to keep you 
 coming back. The multplayer might work for some though it certaintly doesn't for me since the single 
 player has you as a bullet resistanting tank while in the multiplayer you die surprisingly quickly 
 and can lead to frustration as there's no actual sign of you being shot, before you know it your 
 snipered without even noticing your health go down because your too busy keeping a look out for 
 that damn sniper.
  
  All n all though it is a very great looking game espeically speaking for the enviroments but of 
 course this is next-gen so that 'is' to be expected... sadly from what i've seen so far most games 
 these days just seem to be trading in the gameplay for awesome looking graphics and the same applys 
 for The Club.
  Still does contain a few hours of fun if you can find them, since it is for an aquired taste, most 
 probably the old school of trying to beat that highscore from the 80s generation of games.
  Final Score6.1 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 2:42 am PT
Review:  Gameplay: 8.2
  The controls can be a tad on the sluggish side but once you get use to them you will have a blast 
 running, rolling and shooting opponents left and right. There's no real story to enjoy (too bad) 
 but the competitive game matches are a delight to play. Then there's the online multiplayer that 
 will be the reason you will be playing this one for quite a long time.
  
  Graphics: 8.5
  Graphically, The Club looks decent on the PS3 and the character and environmental details are good. 
 While the game is bloody, it's never too gory and it's a blast watching enemies fly back with the 
 brunt of a blast. Oh, and the explosions are just too cool.
  
  Sound: 8.0
  The game's soundtrack doesn't change its tune but thankfully it's not annoying. The voice acting 
 is solid and - aside from the narrator - does a good job of reflecting the various international 
 locales. As for the gunfire and explosions, they are appropriately loud.
  
  Difficulty: Medium
  As a single-player game, you will find yourself overwhelmed by a number of 
 enemies that know how to shoot and duck for cover. Some enemies can perform combat rolls and shoot 
 behind cover well enough. Your real enemy, however, is the ticking clock.
  
  Concept: 8.0
  There are a variety of different characters and two extra ones to unlock but the 
 highlight is the number of guns at your disposal as well as the fun, fast-paced match types that's 
 as frantic as a racing game  if racing games included a body count.
  
  Multiplayer: 9.0
  Much like Unreal Tournament 3, The Club's multiplayer mode is all about the competition and since 
 it's score-based you will really find yourself pushing your skills to the limit. There are plenty 
 of weapons and the different environments are inviting but it's the multiplayer game modes that 
 rule this playground.
  
  Overall: 8.2
  Surprisingly brilliant and utterly addictive, The Club is one of those games that are hard to put 
 down offline or online. Even with a single-player mode that features a nonexistent story and controls 
 that can be occasionally sluggish, it's the multiplayer action that makes this a competitive shooter 
 worth every bullet.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BMX-BOY
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 13, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  the club is a game i would reccomend to people who try games on all difilcultys otherwise it is 
 pretty short but there is like 4 different difficultys to try it on and trust me wen i first got 
 it i thought i would never do hard dificultys because of da points you hav to score they look inposible 
 but u soon realise that u can do most of them pretty easy (first play in easy which in da game 
 is caual) . the club is like one of those games u just dont wanna stop playing its really fun trust 
 me but theres one thing wrong wen u play online it has this thing wer wen u shoot and kill someone 
 it doesent acturally do tha damage for about 4 seconds which is enough time for them to kill u 
 but still it really fun killin ppl online and teaming up wif people and stuff. the club overall 
 is a really fun action pact game which on harder levels is a chalenge but on easy eny one can finish 
 the levels i really like this game its one of those games u play just for pure fun. theres good 
 graphics nice guns kool levels good difficultys for da people who r good at ps3 and shooters overall 
 if u like fun shooters u just play for tha fun and smashin your friends online or just at home 
 wif some mates its a really good game and i say buy it most people enjoy and im sure u will cya 
 by 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamergeek545
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:03 pm PT
Review:  AHHH! Its 3:00 in the morning im sleepy but I'll do this for you. But this game is a $60 arcade game, you 
 might think wow what a rip-off. But ... well for some it might be a rip-off but for people that love 
 shooters it is a $60's well spent. This arcade shooter is really interesting, there really isn't 
 no story but, it's fun to play the tournaments. There is a nice variety of weopons and characters. The 
 characters all have a nice little story in there background, and none aren't interesting. But there 
 isn't much fire behind the loads of weapons, which is disappointing. The level design is top-notch 
 and the final level is by far the best of them all, lots of destruction and bombs. There are ten 
 tournaments, but they can beat in maybe a day and a half. Now for the multiplayer. There are many 
 different game types online, but none get you really addicted. But for the lag factor, well I haven't 
 experianced no lag at all playing this game. But I can't give this game a 9.0 because I didn't think 
 it was superb. But you do need to at least rent this one.
  Real Score:8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 11:59 pm PT
Review:  Based On Demo:
  Gameplay: 6
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 7
  -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  The Club could of been a great game but with so many flaws, it fails to reach the height of other 
 modern shooters of today. Moreover, there are 8 different characters to choose from, each with 
 there own strengths and weaknesses. In the demo, only one character was unlocked, Oragov. Also, 
 there are 8 different levels as well, including, Prison Cells (available in demo) , Warehouse, and 
 bunker. Basically, The Club is a tournament to see who can survive and kill the most to reach the 
 highest score. Shooting someone from a distance, head shots, etc., give you more points than usual. 
 The more people you kill in a row the more points you receive. Furthermore, what makes The Club 
 a letdown is that it is pretty repetitive and it's just a regular boring run and gun game that 
 absolutely does not need any skill. The camera view and aiming systems are pretty bad too. And 
 as for the audio, the sound effects are average, don't expect anything spectacular. Same for the 
 graphics, the game looks great but the graphics aren't breathtaking like other Playstation 3 games. 
 Yet, the characters and enviroments are somewhat unique in there own way. Overall, The Club is 
 a fair game if you enjoy meaningless run and gun games, however, if you really think you would 
 enjoy this game, first rent the game before purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 18, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The Club: either you get it or you don't. The Club is all about speed and accuracy, rhythm and 
 repetition. There's no story. There's no cutscenes. The game is about a corrupt organization of 
 rich men who organize an underground competition to see how long you can survive. You learn this 
 in the tutorial and a 2 minutes intro video for all the characters at the start of the game. You 
 have eight contestants to play as. Their differences are basically down to speed and damage. While 
 some of them are faster but take lots of damage, the others are stronger but slower. All the characters 
 are stylish if a bit clich. There's the strong Siberian dude, the tough cop trying to take down 
 The Club, the agile Japanese, the African guy with tribe markings on his face or the radical sports 
 freak. There's not much difference playing as one or the other, it's pretty much about your favourite 
 character and if you want speed or stamina. They're all charismatic and cool. 
  The whole objective of the game is to rack up as much deaths as possible. If you spend too much 
 time without killing someone, your combo lowers. Anytime you kill someone the score is multiplied 
 by whatever your combo is at the time, so you need to kill as fast as you can. You have to know 
 the levels and where the bad guys appear. They're always at the same places so you can memorize 
 the pattern and choose the order of killing for getting the biggest combo you can. 
  There are 8 locations where you play tournaments. Venice, a steel mill, a mansion and even the 
 middle of a war. The graphics are average but there's a good level of detail in the levels. The 
 music is perfect for the fast paced action. 
  There's never a dull moment in The Club. There's no cover system because that would go against 
 the objective of the game. You're always running, trying to keep your combo from going down, looking 
 for a guy to kill. The game is not difficult but can be challenging. The AI is nothing extraordinary 
 but there are a lot of enemies and things get very intense. There are various game modes. In Survivor 
 you have to survive a set amount of time in a closed location, being attacked from all sides. In 
 Run The Gauntlet you have to reach the end of the level before time runs out and in Time Trial 
 you gain time as you kill enemies to do a number of laps around the level. If time runs out, you 
 die. In Siege, you're in a confined area, shooting from long range at the enemies. 
  The online multiplayer also has a good amount of modes but all people play is kill match or team 
 kill match. These are the usual modes everyone knows from every multiplayer game. In The Club you 
 start with a weapon which is usually bad and have to find a more powerful weapon in the level. 
 What happens is that the players that know the maps better always get the better weapons and dominate 
 play which can sometimes be very frustrating. Still, it can be fun. 
  The Club is an old school game. There's no story progression, no plot, its just shooting. If that's 
 your style, you will love it. If you're looking for CoD4 or Halo, look elsewhere. This is a simple, 
 addictive game. You have numerous leaderboards and you'll soon be playing the level just one more 
 time to climb a few more spots, beat your record, get that perfect combo. In terms of longevity, 
 it never ends. It's not an innovating game. Its gameplay is repetitive and over time can become 
 tedious but it's also a lot of fun. 
  I'm happy to be a member of The Club. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kara248
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 12:47 am PT
Review:  Lets get straight to the point. The Club isn't a revolutionary game which will shake the video 
 game industry, but it is one game which will definitely shake your world. I am going to review 
 this game in different sections and I will briefly point out any pros and cons. Also, I am not 
 sure how long the game took, so I just took a rough estimate of the time spent. I would also like 
 to say that this is my FIRST review, so sorry for any inconvenience. 
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay of The Club is great. Its run and shoot system is a great way to provide 
 quick action without thinking. The single player gameplay provides many events through the campaign 
 and I have to say that it is highly addictive, as you try to always beat your last score. The multiplayer 
 provides many thrills and is a great game to play with others. You can also create a playlist for 
 yourself to practice on and the campaign will keep you very entertained through it's different 
 levels. The Strength, Speed and Stamina system used for the characters is great and is used very 
 well. The attributes are obvious, but if you don't understand what they represent, I will explain. 
 Strength is how strong the character is, Speed is how fast the character is, and Stamina is how 
 much health and how long the character can survive. I admit, this game doesn't haven't any weapons 
 which will make you go WOW! (e. g such as the Halo series) , but it's weapons still provide effective 
 results. Despite that, the gameplay is great and I highly recommend this game for it's gameplay. 
 Also, I hear many people complain about it's sound effects, but can you please tell me why ,in 
 a game like this, would you worry about sound effects of the gun? Your guess is as good as mine.
 
  
  Characters- The characters in this game are varied and provide a very good variety. They are all 
 very fun and interesting. One disadvantage is that there is only eight characters, but that isn't 
 a big problem. You can tell the difference between their Strength, Speed and Stamina and this is 
 very effective as well. All the characters have great back stories and are all very unique. 
  
  Maps- There are only eight maps. I know, not many. But they are large! And they all vary from 
 different locations. They provide indoor and outdoor areas and they are very memorable locations 
 e. g. an abondoned ship. They are very interesting maps and I believe that the creators have created 
 very effective maps, even though there is only eight of them.
  
  Story- O. K... The Cub isn't an award winning storyline, but it is an original storyline which is 
 effective. Basically, their is a organization which is run by very important and rich people. The 
 Club is the organization and what they do is get contestants into this Club, which they then fight 
 for survival. Each character has his own storyline, a bit like TEKKEN 5, for those who have played 
 it. The storyline is original and effective, but I can definitely say it's one of The Club's weakest 
 points.
  
  Overall, I definitely recommend it. It is so fun and so different that you get addicted to it. 
 Like I said before, it is not revolutionary and it isn't a game which everyone has been talking 
 about, but I really believe you should try this game which is sure to provide many unforgettable 
 memories. If you are trying to find a game which is great with friends and yourself, and a game 
 which is action-packed, then I recommend you fight for survival in The Club. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 5
Date: Mar 19, 2008 12:25 pm PT
Review:  The screenshots looked good, and the music and characters are very hip, it looked promising and 
 the layout looked like it was out of a GTA game - except I didn't do my homework before I got the 
 game.
  
  This game is all about racking up as many points as you can. All other aspects of gameplay is neglected. 
 The storyline is bland, the development is weak. Shoot and kill in different ways to get points 
 within the time limit, that's pretty much it. No real strategy, enemies are cannon fodder, you're 
 always under a time constraint. I was expecting something with more substance, but the game failed 
 to deliver. For example, if you can take cover, if you can upgrade your kit, wide range of enemies, 
 something more complicated... felt like this game could've been much better.
  
  If you like a game where all you're after to going as fast as you can to get as many points as 
 you can, this game is for you... think of it as an arcade shooter. If you want more, then avoid 
 the mistake I made and stay away. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HordeKiller101
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:51 pm PT
Review:  Let start out on good foot shall we, If you like Fight Club meets GTA but with out the vehicals 
 your gonna enjoy this game. For the first hour or so your gonna love the ropes bloodpsilling and 
 trying to top your scores. Getting to pick over nine different peeps is fun. Other than trying 
 to beat your previous score and having a decent story line the buck stops here.
  Whats bad about this game lets start with the old graphics which put no strain on the PS3. Items 
 such as Aid kits and ammo kits are strewn about and you have to make no real effort to grab a mag 
 from you foe. You should not be able to sprint over the mercs and snatch there clip, skull targets 
 and even lights on the wall are imposable to tell apart till your on top of the wall. Action walls 
 gates and so forth have the same issue. Next bullet tragerty is sad one level you can shoot threw 
 a rail than the next level you can't . Also a head shot with any gun even 20 yards away should 
 drop anybody. On three separate occasions I sniped three guys no head shot kill and they were still 
 alive. I shot one guy in the knee and recieved a head shot kill this inconsistency's, will get 
 to you especially if your trying for that perfect score. My last issue with this games is that 
 even after lowering the AI to Casual there are far to many mercs spilling at one time making it 
 next to impossibleto get through timed events and just plain frustrating the hell out of you. My 
 suggestion is keep your $60 and go rent it before you buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  The Club is not that bad of a game..... a decent storyline, pretty good graphics i guess, and an 
 addictive shoot-em-up. 
  It is missing something though.... maybe they could have added melee weapons, some cool moves like 
 jumping over a fence or sliding, or maybe a better camera view, but its not too bad. I would recommend 
 renting it first, because it is definitely more of a love or hate game: you really have to be into 
 shooting games. It includes many repetitive levels, for example, just mowing down everyone in your 
 path. And you would really have to be a big fan of the shooting genre to enjoy this. 
  However, the points are fun, and will make you want to try again and again to beat it. 
  But 
 its not too bad. Just compared to the rest of the games coming out or already out, its kind of 
 overlooked. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2008 6:04 pm PT
Review:  The Good:
  - Solid graphics with realistic movements and good scenery, but nothing revolutionary here.
  
 
  - Controls takes some getting used to, but once learned they are pretty easy.
  
  - Game concept is fresh and original... this isn't your typical shooter. The basic concept is kill 
 as many people as fast as possible to earn the most points. There are different game types, but 
 this goal is the same in each.
  
  - Nice locations, with descent level design. You'll play in a wide range of locales, from Venice 
 to underground compounds in Russia to an abandoned cruise ship. There are 8 locations in all.
 
  
  - Characters/Weapons: you get to pick from 8 unique characters with varying degrees of speed, strength 
 and stamina. The weapon selections includes shotguns, machine guns, rocket launchers, pistols and 
 a sniper rifle. Overall a good degree of choice in this department, but the game's frenetic pace 
 limits how often you'll use this range of weapons.
  
  - Tight menu structure/graphics
  
  The Bad:
  - This game gets old pretty fast. You'll go back a few times to improve your scores, 
 but it just doesn't have much replay value. Part of this stems from the fact there are no rewards 
 for your score or winning (besides the bullet for winning a tournament... awesome) . Let's say you 
 could improve your character's attributes by performing better... that would add some replay value. 
 Or if they had a create a character where you could select attributes, pick your weapons, etc. 
 But they chose a very structured arcade style gameplay, and that hurts replay value in my opinion.
 
  
  - Sound is mediocre at best. The gunshots sound unrealistic... very arcade-like.
  
  - Storyline seems like an afterthought or just filler.
  
  - Online mode is BORING. I couldn't 
 get into it.
  
  - It takes forever to turn. You can speed this up in the settings, but it doesn't get fast enough. 
 This is frustrating when you need to turn to kill someone.
  
  - Some levels are too dark, making it hard to spot enemies.
  
  The Verdict:
  Overall, this 
 is a fresh concept, but the structure of the game limits replay value and ultimately makes the 
 $60 asking price seem unreasonable. I had high hopes for this game and I'm a little disappointed. 
 I would rent it first, or pick it up used.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2008 11:03 am PT
Review:  Okay. The Club.
  What can I say? One of the best games I have ever played.
  Its not got a story really, except that your playing as special characters from a Club (hence the 
 name of it) but that doesant matter when your getting excelent Single Player AND Multiplayer!
 
  
  Single Player -
  Basicly, you go through around 8 Area's which contain around 7missions in each one, and you have 
 to go through it, each are quite like Minigames, whilst getting pts, and trying to beat a score. 
 You get pts for killing people, getting skull shots etc. Its also very addicting to come back and 
 try to beat your score which you got before, as I think the reviewer of this game said.
  
  Multiplayer -
  Whooaaa, this is amazing! It's got some of the main ones (deathmatch, team deathmatch 
 etc) but also some new ones like Team Seige where one team defends something and the other team 
 attacks it then it swaps and carrys on.
  
  I'd say, this is definatly a must-buy for all PS3 Owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 27, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  I am not a shooter expert because only lately did I decide to order some shooter games and from 
 the trailers and reviews I was very agitated to buy this game as my first shooter on the ps3... it 
 was simple, 8 men taken into a tournament by some bait like kidnapping their daughter, the club 
 a huge organisation which buys deserted areas like rusty ships and old prisons so that it would 
 hold out some tournaments in which 8 men take turns in sections in which they have to kill tons 
 of other men and get to the wanted area on time or no time at all... everyone of them would get 
 a certain amount of points considering the men he kills and how he kills them and millionaires 
 bet on these 8 men (which was agood touch in my opinion) ... anyway I am not very skilled in shooter 
 games since this is the first shooter game I have played in about 3yrs and I found the casual mode (easy 
 mode) too easy... the reckless mode (the following mode out of 4 modes) it was too hard to come out 
 first... I always wind up 2nd or 3rd and the player coming out first overlaps all the others in 
 points by thousands or millions... there is no middle ground in the modes in this game and that's 
 what makes this game a bit sucky for me... seing the creators' recordings of themselves playing 
 this game they are just perfect... its like they roll on the floor and then shoot 3 ppl in the head 
 a second after and they get about as much points as I get after I beat half of the level just by 
 doing that stunt... plus it seems that there is enough area in this game to last you alot of time 
 but there isn't... you would know the world of this game like the back of your hand by the end of 
 all tournaments (which last about 5hours) but to get very good in the levels you have to play them 
 about 20 times each to remember where all your enemies would be and where they come out and surprise 
 you so that you would expect all of them and afford to do all the best stunts on them but frankly 
 I don't want to waste that much time on this game and you get bored by it all.. anyways my point 
 is that if you are a starter at shooters this isn't the best game that you should start practicing 
 with... only expert shooters should buy this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wimeee
Rating: 5
Date: Feb 25, 2008 2:36 am PT
Review:  twice and then just trow it in a corner. The first person view is very messy. The focus point of 
 the mouse/controller is not what it used to be anymore. To me this is a lame game. It is palyable, 
 but not for long. Yea, I get that with the score beating, that is something which makes the game 
 addictive in a way but that is about it. If it where not for the scores if would have never played 
 it a second time. Rent it first, belive me, some people might like it, it is a mather of taste 
 with this one. The graphics are ok, the gameplay is not, the weapons are so, so and. The worst of 
 all is the controlls, I mean to me at least, it does not really make me feel like an old school 
 shooter. Another thing are the colors, too much color, less is better. Maby this is just the beginning 
 stage of the next generation games but I have to say that soon there has to be a different way 
 on playing these kind of games. It gets just very boring. All these games are so simulare that 
 there is no fun at playing them anymore. It is getting worse from game to game. Where are the fresh 
 ideas ? I have been a video gamer since the 1980's and know pretty much every console ever existed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteamPipe
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 24, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  The Club is the latest game made by Bizzare Creations, the makers of PGR and Geometry Wars. I only 
 wish It provided more content and a deeper multiplayer component. Also, most of the weapons in 
 the game that aren't assault rifles feel underpowered. The game doesn't have good control and there 
 is almost no story. Beside that fact The Club is a highly addictive shooter with slick fast paced 
 action. The game holds up well technically and provides excellent graphics that impress on all 
 fronts. The combo system is different and provides something new not found in most shooters. In 
 the end The Club is a highly addictive shooter, but is let down by the lack of content it provides.
 
  
  11111111 1 1 111111 333333 1 0 0 4444444
  1 11111 1 3 1 0 0 4 4
  1 1 1 111111 3 1 0 0 4444444
  1 1 1 111111 333333 1 0000000 4 4
  4444444 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WiiendWarrior
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 23, 2008 11:46 pm PT
Review:  I have to say I have been nothing short of being completely hooked on the single player action. 
 AS most reviews touch on, one of the main aspects of the game is being able to run through area 
 after area picking off guys in a stylish fasion and racking up the points. 
  
  The one thing that bothers me is that the multi player is getting bashed when all it reminds me 
 a bit of is Gears of War with respawning. The same third person view while running, the slightly 
 slugish turning... I feel I could go far enough to say it is a deeper multiplayer for all of the 
 variation of modes that there are, mine being "Team Skull Shot" where your team as to defend 5 
 signs with your team color skull on it while taking down the other teams... it's awesome....
  
  Pick this game up or atleast rent it with an open mind.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Devourment423
Rating: 9
Date: May 8, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  After have played the demo level many times I was very anxious to pick this title up. The story 
 is pretty much nonexistent, but each character has a different ending to make it at least a little 
 interesting, but the story obviously is not the big thing here. If you are looking for amazingly 
 detailed graphics, ranks in online to show how much you "pwn", and great storyline look elsewhere. 
 This is just run and gun my friends.
  
  Graphics:
  The graphics here are nothing special. There is not a lot of detail, but in a game like this it 
 could possible slow it down. The graphics aren't bad however. There are some nicely varied level 
 designs, but there could have been more. Maybe in downloadable content in the future. The characters 
 are nothing realistic, but each have their own unique personality and look to them.
  
  Sound:
  I have read complaints about the gun sounds. No they are not gigantic sounding, but I 
 think they aren't as bad as some people make them out to be. It does sound a little weak, but it 
 gets the job done. At least the announcer never gets overly annoying either.
  
  Gameplay:
  Well in this type of game, this is pretty much all that matters. It is a mix of racing, 
 and a combo system like in a DMC type game or something. There are 5 modes of gameplay. Siege and 
 Survivor are basically the same thing. You stay in a confined area and try to survive while taking 
 out enemies. Run the Gauntlet and Sprint are virtually the same except in Run the Gauntlet you 
 have a time limit to get to the end of the level. Time Attack is my personal favorite. You do "laps" 
 while killing enemies and collecting time clocks. Now how do you accumulate a lot of points? Combos. 
 You simply run as fast as you can from one enemy to the next before your combo meter runs out. 
 When it goes down your combo will start over. This forces you to keep going and not stop to look 
 for cover. I have read complaints about no cover system, and I just laughed. This is pure run and 
 gun people.
  
  Replayability:
  This is the main reason I bought instead of rent. If you are an old school kind of gamer you know 
 how addicting it can be to beat your high score. This game is exactly that. Perfect your runs to 
 beat your high score or if you have ungodly amounts of time to burn, try to get to the top of the 
 online leaderboards. Some good competition on there. This pretty much makes the game have endless 
 replay value if you are into the high score thing. Like I said before if you need silly symbols 
 like other games to show the world how much you "pwn" look elsewhere. This game is all about scores.
 
  
  Conclusion:
  If you aren't into getting high scores or run and gun games, I would recommend to stay away from 
 this game as there are already enough people criticizing how repetitive this game is. If you are 
 into adrenaline rushing action, by all means give this game a shot and I think you will be surprised. 
 Definitely a sleeper hit this year.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: j3v1zzle
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that the game certainly isn't revolutionary or great by any means. In 
 fact, many might consider a game like this quite shallow. It has no true story mode, only the tournament 
 mode which puts your character in a level with about seven different missions. Each mission can 
 consist of either getting to the exit and scoring as many points as possible on your way there, 
 staying alive for a few minutes in a designated area with waves of people trying to kill you, getting 
 to the exit before the timer runs out with the ability to gain extra seconds by nabbing a kill 
 or picking up a stopwatch which are scattered around the map, or getting to the exit in a traditional 
 time trial mode.
  
  The lack of a story is disappointing but this third-person-shooter certainly makes up for it with 
 totally fresh gameplay. Again, it's nothing innovative by any means but it's just flat out fun. 
 There are eight characters in the game to choose from, all very distinct from each other. There 
 are the strong types (strength) who can deal heavy damage, the durables (stamina) who can take 
 a beating, and the speedsters (speed) who can sprint across the map with ease, and of course a 
 few guys in between. The shooting mechanic in the game is simple but also surprisingly fun. It 
 has a pretty good feel despite the fact that the game lacks a cover system. This is your classic 
 shoot 'em up arcade style game.
  
  I've only played around on a few games in the multiplayer but it is pretty darn good. The maps 
 are generally small but I'm guessing that was sort of the intention as even with only a handful 
 of people there is nonstop action. There are no 'perks' in The Club, rather, it is your traditional 
 pick-up-and-play game. You start your character out with a pistol and find different weapons around 
 the map or kill someone and take theirs. It would've been nice if there was something like a leveling 
 system since the game clearly was built around the multiplayer much like Shadowrun.
  
  The graphics are nothing great but it definitely looks next-gen. There are no fancy shadow or bloom 
 effect but the game itself looks decent and the character models are done quite nice; you can tell 
 that each of the 8 characters in the game all have a distinct and interesting personality and background. 
 For its run-and-gun style gameplay, the frame rate has been able to hold up pretty well. The rare 
 performance hiccups seem to come during the survival mode where waves of enemies come at you. The 
 level designs, again, are quite small and considering the campaign of the game only has a handful 
 of levels, it can feel quite monotonous.
  
  The Club is a game that won't break any barriers; it is a game that knows what it is and, for the 
 most part, does its job well. Once you hop in the game you will probably have a pretty good time, 
 especially if you have some people to play with as the game's strength clearly lies in its multiplayer. 
 The killing is fun, the pacing is excellent, and the ability to play split-screen with up to four 
 different people on the same console is a great feature. The Club, however, is quite a shallow 
 game. It seems like something you would have a blast with for perhaps a week or two and then never 
 touch again. Thus, it's probably worth checking out but only as a rental first. If you're a fan 
 of classic arcade style run-and-gun gameplay with a good deal of emphasis on multiplayer, The Club 
 is definitely worth checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stalkingshadows
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 8:36 am PT
Review:  It's not very often you come across a game with this type of arcade feel. I initially likened it 
 to an arcade "Gears of War". This is because the shooting feels just as solid and there are other 
 various nods towards Epic's award winning title.
  In the single player there are many "points" goals to achieve and varying difficulty levels to 
 keep the average gamer busy for hours on end. Difficulty ranges from "casual" which is very easy 
 to "real" which is criminally difficult with almost perfect performance required.
  The single player game is relatively basic in its approach with a similar approach to each challenge. 
 It feels like the challenge mode on a game like "Timesplitters 2" beefed up with more blood and 
 smarter enemies.
  Where this title really impresses, is the multiplayer online. The levels lend themselves to mayhem 
 with no spots where someone can entrench themselves for too long. The speed at which the game seems 
 to move is very fluent. Though at the moment it seems as though online players are a little hard-to-come-by 
 but I expect this will improve as the days go by seeing that i am writing this less than a week 
 after release.
  
  The good: 
  
  - Good character models
  - Doesn't try to be something it's not
  - Great online play
  
  The bad:
  
  - Slightly 
 jumpy every so often online
  - Can get repetitive
  - Can induce shouting at the TV (not sure this belongs here)
  
  In summary the game is a classic 
 arcade game with several very good elements. Could have been made better with the inclusion of 
 more weapons and a tracking system for online to see how you compare against the other people you 
 are fighting against. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: masa4
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 20, 2008 4:22 pm PT
Review:  In many first and third person shooters, you often find the time to stroll around at your own pace 
 taking in the scenery, exploring every nook and cranny for hidden power-ups or secret areas, or 
 just planning the best way to take out your enemy, or just staring at a fault in the level design 
 when you stand right next to a wall or something, or seeing if its possible to shoot a bird from 
 a tree. There is no time for anything like this in The Club. This game is played at break neck 
 speed. You race around the levels taking out bad guys as quickly as you can. That is the basic 
 premise of this game. The club plays like an arcade game, it's time crisis in third person mode. 
 It could actually have been a much better game, maybe number 2 will be. I really hope they make 
 a number 2 anyway. I can't believe that people are payed to design storylines, characters etc and 
 this is the best they can come up with. It's almost insulting to us people who do normal jobs and 
 pay money for these people to entertain us with their ideas. There are so many opportunities to 
 go over the top here. The idea of a club like this is ridiculous, so why didn't they go all out 
 with the tongue in cheeck-ness of storylines, characters etc like retro arcade games. It just seems 
 lazy to me. There is no character design feature, no interesting unlockable rewards, pretty much 
 no story line, no bonus rounds. But you do get a 10 second (if that) video when you finish it. 
 They are all crud aswell, let's be honest. On the other hand the gameplay is very addictive and 
 a lot of fun, multiplayer is also very good. The single player mode is pretty much love it or hate 
 it. I love it, it's just a shame the game has no depth. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tariq393
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:18 am PT
Review:  the club is an example of very bad and boring game.. the controlling sucks and the gun fight is 
 very confusing you can't aim at the enemy without getting shot several times and the funny thing 
 is that the foes can hide behind boxes or walls but you can't!! you will running around like crazy 
 in some parts and being shot from everywhere trying to locate the shooter while your health is 
 dropping so fast.. the graphics is more like PS2 than PS3.. this game should be on arcade not PS3 
 like most of Sega games.. if you were going to buy this game my advice to u DON'T! get uncharted: 
 drakes fortune... i didn't expect that Sega would release such a game.. the game's story is good 
 but sabotaged by the game play.. the second good thing is that there's 8 playable characters you 
 can choose between but the club is a worst game i played so far on PS3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dclgspot
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 18, 2008 6:07 am PT
Review:  This game is a surprise to me. I like FPS but get bored with multi player after I have finished 
 the main single-player campaigns. I'm totally maxed out on COD4 and am just not that interested 
 in getting the next gun or achieving some kind of target or of listening to silly boys yelling 
 "dooooood" every 10 seconds.
  
  So this is refreshing, to say the least. To get good at this game you have to practice a lot. And 
 that practice never gets boring for me. Perfect execution of a combination of  
 getting an ever-increasing score as you desperately try to keep that combo going up and up so you 
 build a bigger and better score. An absolute blast. Very few games have given me the kind of buzz 
 I get when I crack my own score.
  
  There is lots of variety (despite what some reviewers have said) in each of the game types and 
 the environments are very well designed for the game they have been created to service.
  
  Multi player is much more fun than most as well. Especially the siege game. An absolute blast. 
 Totally unrealistic (you can soak up bullets) and all the better for it. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
