-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/chroniclesofriddickassaultondarkathena/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Butcher Bay is still amazing.
 Fantastic lighting and shadows.
 Great character models and voice acting .
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 New content is cliche and tedious.
 Troublesome artificial intelligence.
 Multiplayer feels tacked on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 10, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 8.1, 16 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 82 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Atari
Developer: Starbreeze
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Apr 7, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A remade classic and a passable sequel meet in this fun but inconsistent package. 

  It's difficult to come to grips with a release like The Chronicles of Riddick: Assault on Dark 
 Athena, because it's made up of several disparate components of varying quality. The shining star 
 here is the slick retooling of 2004's Escape from Butcher Bay, the illustrious Xbox action game 
 that helped shatter expectations of what a film-based game could offer. Butcher Bay holds up beautifully, 
 exquisitely building tension before settling into a satisfying, smoldering pace. The other single-player 
 component offered is Dark Athena, Butcher Bay's sequel. It is a serviceable follow-up, but it's 
 positively limp when compared to its superb predecessor, monotonously falling into a rut of predictability 
 that the original always avoided. The final piece of this inconsistent puzzle is an interesting 
 but uneven suite of multiplayer modes that is mild fun in spurts but too awkward to stand out. 
 One part unforgettable and two parts merely adequate, Assault on Dark Athena is a must-play for 
 those who missed the original and a tolerable diversion for everyone else.  

  Escape from Butcher Bay has been freshened up a bit and looks surprisingly spiffy on a high-definition 
 display. It certainly shows its age in a number of ways: The stiff character models move awkwardly 
 and exhibit scant expression, and low-definition textures betray the graphic engine's last-generation 
 roots. Yet though Butcher Bay's visuals have noticeable wrinkles, the phenomenal lighting and shadowing 
 smooth the crow's feet surprisingly well. Few games this reliant on pure atmosphere can provoke 
 so much awe five years later -- yet the dark recesses provide as much uncertain solace now as they 
 ever did. Though you won't mistake the remade journey as a slick modern release, you also won't 
 often be distracted by its graphical deficiencies either, which speaks volumes for both the quality 
 of Butcher Bay and the extra layers of virtual varnish applied.  

  More impressively, the remade original still stands tall, partially because few games have tried 
 to duplicate its blueprint, but also because its numerous gameplay elements are balanced so well. 
 As gruff criminal Richard B. Riddick, your main goal is to break out of Butcher Bay, the intergalactic 
 equivalent of Alcatraz: a menacing, unforgiving, and nearly inescapable prison. Riddick understands 
 that such an escape requires a quiet command of multiple talents, and correspondingly, you'll use 
 a number of different gameplay devices to guide him out. You'll start with just your fists, but 
 eventually you'll be wielding sharp-edged melee weapons and clubs, not to mention an arsenal of 
 assault rifles, shotguns, and other ranged powerhouses. However, whenever possible, Riddick prefers 
 to keep to the shadows, sneaking up on his prey and delivering each foe to his maker, one gruesome 
 stealth kill at a time.  

  Remarkably, each of these elements is solid on its own, yet Butcher Bay merges them so harmoniously 
 that the game surpasses genre conventions, so much so that even now there are very few games that 
 compare. As you progress through the game, the prison takes on a life of its own. Your fellow captives 
 have stories to tell and missions to give, and fantastic voice acting brings each of them to life. 
 Even the obscene graffiti scrawled on the walls and scratched on signs speak to their desolation 
 and desperation. Whether you're conversing with inmates, sneaking in the shadows, plunging a shiv 
 through a blueskin's neck, or stunning a foe with the tranquilizer gun before introducing him to 
 your heel, there's always an unnerving sense of general agitation. That tension builds steadily 
 throughout the experience, thanks to brilliant pacing that keeps even the quiet moments from feeling 
 comfortable.  

           Riddick considers his next move.      

  Assault on Dark Athena is the new story-driven content here, and it takes place after the events 
 of Butcher Bay. It retains some of its predecessor's strengths, and even improves on a few of them. 
 Visually, the sequel compares favorably to any current action game while still incorporating the 
 fantastic lighting and shadows for which the original was known. The new character models are authentically 
 expressive, and their bodies and faces animate fluidly. As Riddick, Vin Diesel's raspy bass provides 
 a sturdy sonic foundation, and that gravitas spreads through the entire voice cast. Each performance 
 is memorable, from ship captain Revas to a lecherous, grossly obscene prisoner, so though the plot 
 itself isn't all that intriguing, the superb acting goes a long way toward keeping you involved. 
 You may not hear better voice acting all year: It's that good.     

  Sadly, the new gameplay cannot compare to the tight mixture that held Butcher Bay together so wonderfully. 
 As you traverse your new confines seeking escape -- first on the titular ship, later on a planetside 
 prison colony -- you'll encounter a few strong personalities, but their stories aren't mixed in all 
 that well with the experience. These early conversations go on for too long and result in multiple 
 tedious fetch quests that require some annoying backtracking, all the while failing to instill 
 a sense of place or offer any kind of organic flow to the proceedings. It feels contrived, and 
 in fact, most of Dark Athena seems artificial, which makes for a jarring contrast to its dynamic 
 predecessor.  

           Riddick is always happy to offer a helping hand.      

  The gameplay elements are fundamentally the same as Butcher Bay's. You will lurk in the pitch-black 
 corners, use your eyeshine ability to see in the blackest of crawlspaces, gun down hive-minded 
 drones, and slice up some enemies in a few different gruesome -- and often satisfying -- ways. Sadly, 
 none of these aspects feel balanced, and they aren't put together well on their own. A protracted 
 sneaking sequence in which you avoid a searchlight while climbing across a series of stacked boxes 
 is tedious and uninspired, and poor enemy placement and cheating artificial intelligence cause 
 some moments to induce tension headaches in lieu of actual tension. Every gameplay element feels 
 split into chunks rather than flowing smoothly together. You play a short stealth portion, then 
 a shooting portion, and then a quick melee portion; the pace feels stilted, especially when compared 
 to its companion game. To make matters worse, scattered environmental puzzles that involve excessive 
 amounts of platforming (not the game's strong suit) grind the tempo to a halt. The manner in which 
 the gameplay has been sliced up in this manner is not only choppy, but it also makes the action 
 predictable. And in Dark Athena, as with most games, predictability leads to monotony before long. 

  There are some new elements that seem meant to add variety, but they actually have the opposite 
 effect more often than not. For example, some mech sequences are briefly fun but highlight Dark 
 Athena's unbalanced gameplay, which favors guns over sneaking prowess. This emphasis is particularly 
 clear during the second half of the game, which takes place on a well-lit base and puts you up 
 against a series of unmanned spider drones, the most annoying enemies in the game. Well, perhaps 
 more annoying are the giant robotic foes that the game tediously tosses at you over and over again 
 in the final hours -- which you must take down the same way every time. After the fifth or sixth 
 such encounter, it feels like tedious filler and represents one of Dark Athena's biggest drawbacks: 
 lack of imagination. Rather than melding multiple genres into a cohesive, original experience, 
 this sequel is a humdrum shooter with some sneaking and melee elements. And one of the most important 
 elements of Butcher Bay -- the mission-based adventuring -- is all but missing, with the exception 
 of the boring early-game fetch quests.  

  Nevertheless, Dark Athena is not awful, but it inspires more indifference than excitement. Likewise, 
 the multiplayer component feels unnecessary, though it's competent enough. You can join other players 
 in one of six modes, in ranked or unranked matches. Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, and Capture the 
 Flag work exactly as you'd expect, though few people seem to be playing them. Instead, most players 
 seem to prefer Pitch Black mode, in which one player skulks in the dark as Riddick, while the others 
 equip their weapons and flashlights and smoke him out. It's fun to pick someone off as Riddick 
 and slink away, or to gun down the gruff prisoner as he crosses in front of your beam, though the 
 novelty wears off in time. Butcher Bay Riot pits three teams against each other in a succession 
 of rounds, letting you purchase weapons, armor, and ammo in between them, a la Counter-Strike. 
 It's sporadically amusing, but weird animations and occasional lag aren't apt to inspire large 
 online communities. In fact, the PC and PlayStation 3 versions don't seem to be inspiring many 
 players at all, and though the Xbox 360 contingent is a bit healthier, even on that platform it 
 is difficult to find matches in certain modes.  

           This isn't the proper way to perform the Heimlich maneuver.      

  The Chronicles 
 of Riddick: Assault on Dark Athena is many things: an attractive rerelease of an amazing game, 
 a mildly disappointing sequel, and a forgettable online experience. If you haven't played Butcher 
 Bay, it's a must-play. If you have, be aware of the sequel's abundant shortcomings before making 
 a purchase. Nevertheless, though the new content lets in far too much sunlight, those that crave 
 the darkness will still find plenty of inky crevasses in which to lurk.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (8 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Ohhhhh GameInformer......... How much were you paid to give this game such a high rating? You will 
 see that good ol Lethal was paid nothing for this review. This game blew me away back in 2004 when 
 I first played as Riddick on my PC. The graphics were top notch and the story was better than the 
 movie. Does the remake and sequel live up to the 2004 hit? How much money you got?
  
  
  Graphics - 6.75/10
  
  I am sorry but I remember this game looking much smoother and crisp back 
 in the day. Starbreeze claims that this game got an entire face lift but I am not seeing it. Unless 
 of course my PS3 is broken and I am not getting the new graphics that should be in the game. The 
 textures and lighting look terrible. The screen is always blurry and the textures look old and 
 out dated. The fog is really bad as well. Many parts of the game you are in a dark hall or tunnel 
 and you have fog or steam all around you. Well instead of slowly seeing an enemy walking in the 
 fog they just appear right in front you! It's like they appeared out of thin air.
  (This goes for both Butcher Bay and Dark Athena)
  
  
  
  Sound - 7.5/10
  
  The voice 
 acting in both games are pretty good. Riddick of course shows no emotion when he talks but I guess 
 thats why he is so bad azz! The explosions and bullets sound decent and the music is nothing to 
 crazy over. I suppose it does set the mood pretty well though.
  
  Gameplay - 7/10
  
  These games give you many oportunities to use stealth which is a lot of fun. I believe there is 
 a trophy for getting through certain areas without being noticed. The problem is that on hard its 
 SO HARD!!!! 1 or 2 shots will kill you and if you shoot the enemy its like they didn't feel it. 
 They just keep on truckin. This will really frustrate you while playing because the only way to 
 get a one shot kill is by placing a PERFECT head shot. Sometimes they do not die or even act as 
 if they were shot. BOOM your dead though.......
  The controls are not bad but could be improved upon. Something about the aiming and shooting seems 
 to be a bit off. I just can not get the precision I get when playing games like Bioshock or Call 
 of Duty. There is also a lack of weapons in the games. 
  
  
  Multiplayer - N/A
  
  I tried a few online games and I will say that I did not enjoy it. This mode feels like it was 
 rushed and tossed on here for some replay value. Because I only played 2 games online I will not 
 rate this feature.
  
  Overall - 7/10
  
  Assault on Dark Athena falls short compared to Butcher Bay. The stealth and combat just does not 
 feel like is was not well implemented. The stories in both games are pretty good. Butcher Bay especially! 
 Fans of Riddick will probably enjoy these games reguardless of this review. Is the game fun? Yes. 
 Will you play this game more than once? No. Is it worth the $60 price tag? 2 games in 1..... Yes. 
 With all of that said I am awarding this game, Lethal's "Blockbuster" Stamp of Approval!
  
  
  Pros:
  2 full games on one disc. 
  Good stories 
  Enjoyable trophies 
  
  Cons:
 
  Graphics seem out of date 
  Assault on Dark Athena feels repetive and lacks originality. 
  Multiplayer feels like it was rushed in the game 
  Poor or lack of animations 
  AI is really 
 dumb 
  AI tends to not be affected by bullets 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: skye3000
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:56 am PT
Review:  I played Escape from Butcher Bay when it came out for PC in 2004. At the time I thought it was 
 ahead of the curve and expected more titles to follow in the series. Unfortunately I had to wait 
 5 years to play a sequel. It was worth the wait. I enjoyed playing through EFBB again since I had 
 forgotten how to solve most of the puzzles. Sometimes EFBB doesn't give you enough direction on 
 what to do making it frustrating. I found myself running in circles trying not to get killed. Assault 
 on Dark Athena is a little better in this regard. If you are lost, occasionally you will get a 
 help icon on the screen. It will give you more detail on where to go. My favorite part of both 
 games is the multitude of silent kills. Each one is brutal in its own way. Whether you prefer to 
 use your hands or one of many melee weapons, its fun to watch the carnage. I find myself switching 
 to a melee weapon after stunning enemies with the stun gun. The AI is pretty bad. If they see you, 
 you can hide in the shadows as long as they don't have a flash light. I didn't like the fact that 
 I couldn't run. Riddick has 2 speeds, slow and slower. It makes it difficult to run from cover 
 to cover without getting caught by enemies.
  
  Overall this is a fun game. If you are looking for a challenge that will simply blow you away, 
 this probably isn't the game for you. Sloppy gun play makes it cumbersome to take on multiple enemies 
 with assault rifles or shotguns. If you were a fan of Vin Diesel in Pitch Black before he became 
 famous, this game is right up your alley. It has all of the classic Riddick elements and brutal 
 strength of the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HAMODA
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 11:43 pm PT
Review:  The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay" was an XBOX exclusive that was released in 
 Summer 2004. It was considered to be the best movie-based game ever made. Unfortunately, PS2 fans 
 never got to see a port. However, EFBB felt very much like an XBOX game because it combined the 
 stealth mechanics of "Splinter Cell" with the shooting elements of "Halo" (both made specifically 
 for XBOX) . The game never became a major hit probably due to its lack of online play and lack of 
 an extensive single player campaign. Still, "Riddick" on XBOX was a cult hit due to its excellent 
 reviews. Visually, it was similar to "Doom 3" and the gameplay was cutting edge for the time. 
 
  
  Flash forward five years later and games like "Bioshock" and "Fallout 3" have opened to similar 
 praise. And while "Riddick" was exceptionally well made, it's a game that may come across as a 
 little lackluster when compared to today's masterpieces. Yet, for anyone who's never played "Riddick", 
 they owe it to themselves to experience it because it's still as good as when it was first released. 
 The game is a perfect blend of stealth and action. There's a little bit of adventuring as well. 
 Overall, it's a rather visceral experience. The game starts out slow (like "Fallout 3" and "Bioshock") , 
 but the pace begins to quicken as you progress. Riddick can stealth kill his enemies, climb and 
 sneak in the shadows (like Sam Fisher) and eventually wield all sorts of firearms and melee weapons. 
 There is a variety of boss fights, but the story's characters also make the game a joy to play.
 
  
  This current-gen version spruces up the graphics and this port of EFBB is the "Director's Cut" 
 which was previously released only on the PC. The framerate on occassion stutters and there are 
 mid-level loading screens, but overall the visual upgrade is awesome. Lighting and shadows are 
 great and the character models while lacking in detail, are good. I played a little of "Dark Athena" 
 and it feels more like an expansion pack that could've been released a year later on XBOX after 
 the release of EFBB. I have yet to experience online, but I've been told it's a fast pace expierence.
 
  
  This is the first time I've ever been second in my reviews. And yet, I'm glad to report this game 
 is great. It may not hold up to today's games of similar content, but when compared to the original 
 release, it stands up rather well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vizzuleyes
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  This game makes you truely feel like you are in one of the movies, amazing cut sceens awsome graphics 
 and the first ever PS3 title to be made in 1081i and 1080p, not to mention as i said two full games 
 in one, the remake of the 2004 game "Escape from Butcher bay" and the new game "Assault on dark 
 Athena". Vin Diesal does all his own voice overs which just makes you feel even more like you are 
 playing in an action movie. I gave this game and 8.5 only because I compare every FPS to Call of 
 Duty modern Warfare a 10. Some advice when playing the first game Butcher bay I do recomend a walkthrough 
 if you want to find everything otherwise you will have a hell of a time finding the packs of smokes, 
 some are hidden very well, and also do all side mission offered to fully complete the game with 
 all trophies. Online play is awsome especially the dark room where one person plays Riddick in 
 complete darkness and the rest of the team has only gun mounted flashlights its a rush to be riddick. 
 like I said very much worth the money if you like first person shooters with great story lines. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fireknight23
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 9, 2009 3:16 am PT
Review:  Well what to say about Dark Athena. I must say that as soon this game started up and i played though 
 the first few levels i was met with a strange mixture of disappointment and well yet more disappointment. 
 Now those of you who have played dark athena may have the impulse to slap me but hear me out. Its 
 important to mention that at no time did i say it was bad game
  I do feel however that doesnt stand up to first one escape from butcher bay an xbox exclusive and 
 probably the most underrated game of 2004 it had great production value and offered an interesting 
 mix of stealth and action. Now we have dark athena. I'm not a graphics hound but i have to point 
 out the dated look of athena good lighting effects but some lack luster textures and the character 
 models could use a boost. The story to the game though interesting seems slightly dragged down 
 by the lack luster voice acting that felt rather dry to put bluntly. Now on to the action ill start 
 with the gunplay it was very solid but seemed like quite the standard fps fair. I must express 
 my shear disappointment with the shotgun a usually visceral and entertaining weapon was utterly 
 bland lacking any of the usual intensity that you come to expect from the iconic weapon. Sadly 
 the same can said of most of the guns lacking any of the real intensity that you would expect. 
 On two to the stealth you can have riddick hide in the shadows and climb onto the walls then strike 
 for some entertaining kills. these are performed by riddicks classic glaives which dont seem to 
 get there combat dues in here they are fun but mostly good for stealth attacks but arent near as 
 good as guns in a fight. multiplayer has some very entertaining moments but didnt seem to stand 
 out much and felt repetitive after a while. all and all athena is a good game and can certainly 
 be entertaining but falls pray to being repetitive and feels more like a shined up version of bucther 
 bay for next gen but if like riddick then your sure to find something to like between the interesting 
 story and tight action along with the multiplayer makes for a good game that is but a few tweaks 
 from a great game.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teh_Total_Nub
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Okay where do i begin, you start the game off with being sent to butcher bay, this is after the 
 events that occured in pitch black if you saw that movie, my favorite.
  
  
  Anyways here we go, the gameplay is great it's a perfect mixture between FPS/RPG/Something else.
 
  
  The graphics, though a little bit dated doesnt drag the game down one bit, and the gameplay more 
 than makes up for it.
  
  Longevity, well it goes without saying this is comparable to half life the orange box, you get 
 alot of content for your bucks here, and for someone who hasnt played butcher bay this is a must 
 bay, otherwise its still a should buy.
  
  Overally i deeply reccomend this game, everything is immersive and the story is something i really 
 love, voice acting is over the top great and finally i see vin diesel in his right element.
  
  Videogames for the win. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simon_levane
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 7, 2009 10:16 am PT
Review:  "The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay" was an XBOX exclusive that was released in 
 Summer 2004. It was considered to be the best movie-based game ever made. Unfortunately, PS2 fans 
 never got to see a port. However, EFBB felt very much like an XBOX game because it combined the 
 stealth mechanics of "Splinter Cell" with the shooting elements of "Halo" (both made specifically 
 for XBOX) . The game never became a major hit probably due to its lack of online play and lack of 
 an extensive single player campaign. Still, "Riddick" on XBOX was a cult hit due to its excellent 
 reviews. Visually, it was similar to "Doom 3" and the gameplay was cutting edge for the time. 
 
  
  Flash forward five years later and games like "Bioshock" and "Fallout 3" have opened to similar 
 praise. And while "Riddick" was exceptionally well made, it's a game that may come across as a 
 little lackluster when compared to today's masterpieces. Yet, for anyone who's never played "Riddick", 
 they owe it to themselves to experience it because it's still as good as when it was first released. 
 The game is a perfect blend of stealth and action. There's a little bit of adventuring as well. 
 Overall, it's a rather visceral experience. The game starts out slow (like "Fallout 3" and "Bioshock") , 
 but the pace begins to quicken as you progress. Riddick can stealth kill his enemies, climb and 
 sneak in the shadows (like Sam Fisher) and eventually wield all sorts of firearms and melee weapons. 
 There is a variety of boss fights, but the story's characters also make the game a joy to play.
 
  
  This current-gen version spruces up the graphics and this port of EFBB is the "Director's Cut" 
 which was previously released only on the PC. The framerate on occassion stutters and there are 
 mid-level loading screens, but overall the visual upgrade is awesome. Lighting and shadows are 
 great and the character models while lacking in detail, are good. I played a little of "Dark Athena" 
 and it feels more like an expansion pack that could've been released a year later on XBOX after 
 the release of EFBB. I have yet to experience online, but I've been told it's a fast pace expierence.
 
  
  This is the first time I've ever been second in my reviews. And yet, I'm glad to report this game 
 is great. It may not hold up to today's games of similar content, but when compared to the original 
 release, it stands up rather well. Stealth fans will love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bateman6
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 1:47 am PT
Review:  The feeling of this game is awesome. It's almost like you're in there your self. The vocal by Vin 
 Disel just get's my hair rasing. My favourite part is to sneak up and have meele fights with the 
 guards. Now to MP, the Pitch Black mode is original. Love beeing Riddick and crush you guy's. Nice 
 of Starbreeze to make a package of it.... haven't tried Escape From Butcher Bay in high def yet, 
 but looking forward to this too. Remeber when I first played this on my old xbox and the feeling 
 I had back then. The part where you are actually on the outside area with the other inmates and 
 get into a fight just like in movie. That is awesome...! And the best part as said already is the 
 melee action you have in this game. Even though the weapons in Dark Athena are nice it still gets 
 me more pleasure just beating up those Pilts *LOL*
  
  Se you guy's in Pitch Black.
  
  
  
  /P 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
