-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Darkness
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/thedarkness/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Amazing voice work and dialogue set the mood right out of the gate.
 Stunning graphics, both technically and artistically.
 Darkness powers are a lot of fun to use again and again.
 Compelling, well-told story.
 Can press a button to devour human hearts.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Most of the conventional weapons are useless.
 Enemy reactions and artificial intelligence feel a little too passive at times.
 Multiplayer feels a little tacked-on.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 27, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.1, 41 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 3,525 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: 2K Games
Developer: Starbreeze
Genre: Modern First-Person...
Date: Jun 25, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Darkness is a remarkable action game that tells a compelling story from start to finish. 
 

  The Darkness. You work best when you're in the shadows, it's a grisly and occasionally gruesome 
 tale, and it also happens to be the name of the demon festering inside of you. Yes, for multiple 
 reasons, The Darkness is a perfect name for this first-person shooter from 2K and Starbreeze, the 
 developer responsible for The Chronicles of Riddick. Based on a comic book from Top Cow, The Darkness 
 weaves an interesting and authentic tale of mobsters seeking revenge together with an otherworldly 
 force with an insatiable appetite for human hearts.  

  The game opens with an amazing set piece that gets things moving right away. You play as Jackie 
 Estacado, a New York-based mob hit man on his 21st birthday, and you've just woken up in the back 
 of a speeding convertible. A money-collection deal has gone wrong, your two buddies are attempting 
 to get away from crooked cops, and you apparently got knocked out somewhere along the way. As you're 
 speeding along to a construction site to take out the foreman, you're tossed a shotgun to help 
 defend the car from incoming fire. The car crashes, you end up on foot, and the story begins to 
 unfold. Your Uncle Paulie, the leader of the crime family, has gone off the deep end, suspects 
 you of foul play, and puts a hit out on you. So it's on you to tear apart his operation by taking 
 out key moneymakers and money movers. As you do this, Paulie starts to hit back, sending thugs 
 not only in your direction, but also in the direction of Jenny, Jackie's girlfriend and the only 
 person that really matters to him. Luckily, you won't have to fight it out all by yourself.  

 
           Who would have thought that mixing mobsters with demons would work so well?      

  Early in the game, Jackie is possessed by The Darkness, some sort of parasitic creature that 
 speaks to you as a demonic voice in your head and manifests itself as two demonic snakelike appendages 
 that shoot out of your shoulder blades and appear on the sides of the screen. They snap and growl 
 when you whip them out, and over time you'll earn new abilities. For starters, revealing The Darkness 
 gives you a shield against damage, better vision in low-light situations, and a move that lets 
 you plant one of the snakelike creatures onto the ground and take control of it. From there, you 
 can crawl into ventilation ducts, sneak around, and kill enemies with a bite attack. You'll also 
 earn a demon arm attack, which causes a big, sharp appendage to thrust outward and through your 
 enemies. Eventually you'll get guns that use The Darkness' energy as ammo and a black hole attack 
 that lets you open up big vacuums that suck enemies in, killing them quite easily in the process. 
 The catch is that The Darkness has a limited amount of power, and all of these attacks drain it. 
 It's restored automatically when you're standing in shadows, making shooting out light sources 
 wherever you go a pretty big part of the game.  

  You'll select your darkness powers much like you'll cycle through your conventional weapons, with 
 a touch of the D pad. There aren't very many different types of guns in the game, and what's more, 
 the dual pistols that you start with are also the most effective weapon from start to finish. You'll 
 get a shotgun, assault rifles, and an auto-shotgun that isn't accurate enough to be of much use. 
 The game's auto-targeting seems to make your aim naturally gravitate toward the heads of your foes, 
 and one shot from a pistol is almost always enough to take care of them. Considering the artificial 
 intelligence isn't always swift enough to duck and cover, the game usually isn't too much of a 
 challenge on its medium difficulty setting.  

           While you'll have the opportunity to go on a few side missions, the main storyline is 
 where all the action is.      

  Most of the game takes place in New York, and despite its world being reasonably open-ended, the 
 story itself is strictly linear. You'll always know where to go next, and you'll have a good idea 
 of how to get there. If you end up lost, an objectives menu will point you in the general direction, 
 and a map will show you which sections you'll have to travel through. Along the way, particularly 
 in the game's two active subway stations, you'll run into people in need of a little help. This 
 gives you some side missions to play with, and most of these seem to involve going somewhere and 
 shooting and/or talking to someone. They're usually not very difficult, and there isn't really 
 much of a payoff, either. You'll usually get one of the 100 pieces of bonus content, which gives 
 you a few issues of the comic books, as well as plenty of concept art. Unless you're a sucker for 
 concept art or an Xbox 360 achievements fiend, most of the extra stuff can be safely skipped, though 
 the world looks so nice that you might find yourself wanting to complete as much as possible just 
 to spend more time with the game. The main storyline definitely has some length to it, though, 
 so even if you ignore all of the extra little elements, you'll still feel like you got your money's 
 worth out of the game. Thanks to a handful of especially mind-blowing sequences and well-crafted 
 plot twists, you'll feel like you've covered a ton of ground by the time you reach the game's final 
 confrontation.     

  Not every single aspect of the story is a winner, though. There are a few weird spots that stick 
 out, given the high quality of the rest of the game. For example, enemies rarely even make mention 
 of your unique curse, making you wonder if it's invisible to others for a good third of the game. 
 How would you react if you saw some guy with glowing eyes and a bunch of demonic tentacles sticking 
 out of him running right at you with pistols in either hand? Then, you run into a cutscene where 
 a storyline character specifically references "that demon s***," making it apparent that it's totally 
 visible to all. Shouldn't some guys be running away, screaming like banshees when you reveal yourself 
 and eat the hearts of their friends? Even civilians don't freak out very much if they catch a glimpse 
 of your power. This makes some parts of the game feel slightly disjointed, though all in all, the 
 action and the story are both very satisfying. It's especially fun to eat the hearts of every enemy 
 you take out, which occasionally causes the two demon heads to fight over the heart. Weirdly enough, 
 the head on the right always wins, but it's cool moments like this that help give The Darkness 
 a unique feel.  

           The Darkness isn't an especially long game, but by the time you complete it, you'll feel 
 like you've seen a lot.      

  In addition to the single-player mode, there's an eight-player online mode that gives you the basic 
 first-person shooter modes, like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. You can do 
 some configuring from there, such as turning on one-hit kills. You can also morph from human form 
 to that of a skittering little demon called a darkling, which is weak and unarmed but has a powerful 
 melee attack and can crawl on walls and ceilings. Modes like survivor play off of this; your goal 
 here is to be the last human standing, and death from a darkling makes you join the darkling side. 
 The online is mostly functional, though the game really falls apart when one player is lagging. 
 Your movement becomes erratic and the game becomes basically unplayable. When it works, it's a 
 decent diversion, though it does feel tacked-on. Being able to actually call upon The Darkness 
 and use the powers you get in single-player might have been cool, though having eight players use 
 a black hole at the same time might have been a little too crazy. Either way, it's immediately 
 clear that the single-player is the star of the show.  

  Visually, The Darkness looks superb. It's got a very smooth frame rate and a large, nicely detailed 
 world. It goes up to 1080p on both the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3. The texture clarity is such 
 that there's a secret sequence of phone calls you can hear by reading phone numbers off of billboards 
 and flyers put up around town and calling them from the nearest pay phone. It also has a great 
 art style to it. New York looks appropriately grimy and urban, with a lot of graffiti. And the 
 Otherworld, where you'll spend a bit of time, has a nicely hellish look that applies to both the 
 environments and the enemies you face. Most of the animation is good, and you have to give it up 
 for any game that features motion-captured break-dancing for no reason other than to provide a 
 bit of flavor in one of the subway stations. About the only disappointing aspect of the game's 
 look is that people's lips don't move very much when they speak, which makes some of the dialogue-heavy 
 sequences look slightly off; but that's minor in the grand scheme of things.  

           Great dialogue and voice actors help the story move along nicely.      

  The voice 
 acting in The Darkness is universally awesome. You'll encounter plenty of raspy-voiced old-school 
 mobsters who sound like they stepped right off of the set of  Goodfellas . Jackie himself comes 
 across perfectly as the tough-guy hit man that he's supposed to be, but he still shows flashes 
 of vulnerability. And then, of course, there's the voice of The Darkness, which is supercreepy 
 and perfect at giving you a case of the willies. Even the random people you run into on the street 
 have believable voice performances. On top of that, the script is really something, so these great 
 voices have solid dialogue to work with. The rest of the sound effects are appropriate, and as 
 you take damage and near death, things slow down and start to sound as though you're underwater, 
 which is a nice effect. The snapping and chomping of The Darkness' twin heads is pretty cool, too. 
 Most of the music in the game is ambient background stuff that helps set the appropriate mood. 

  The Darkness is available on both the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3, and the differences between 
 the two versions are pretty minimal. The PlayStation 3 version seems to have slightly better color 
 than the 360 version, but the 360 version looks a bit sharper. Also, the Xbox 360 version has achievements, 
 and the PlayStation 3 version gives you the same tasks, but calls them accomplishments. Regardless 
 of what you call them, they're evenly spread, with a few that come from winning more multiplayer 
 matches than you'll probably be willing to endure. Overall, both versions are equally recommendable. 

  The Darkness' appeal comes from its many different parts coming together in a really great way. 
 The believability of the characters mixed with this hellacious demonic force fits together in a 
 really interesting fashion; the gameplay is very satisfying, even if it isn't especially challenging; 
 and the presentation is top-notch. If you're a sucker for M-rated action -- and really, how can you 
 pass on a game with a human-heart-eating mechanic? -- you'll definitely want to play The Darkness. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (210 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: nomaskedhero
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 14, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  Negatives:
  
  First of all, this is PS3. So, game graphics are way lower than PS3 potential. It looks like an 
 ordinary PC shooter, PS2 look like hands and fingers, guns and clothes. Not good. The outside areas 
 look like Postal. So much 3D, not realistic.
  
  Secondly, this is "The Darkness" for God's Sake! This is not "Punisher". All you do is killing 
 mobs and mafia, a little some zombie Nazis that we did not see in the comic book. The most biggest 
 enemy of the Darkness is nowhere. If there is darkness, where is the light? Where is Angelus and 
 her angels? I have waited so long to see one, but nope, there is not any.
  And in the comic book, Jackie does not need some wacko guns to control the darkness. He is the 
 owner and darkness helps and obeys him from the start. Darkness says "Yes master, ok master". Why 
 do we need some guns to control it? Ridiculous.
  
  Positives:
  
  If you haven't read the comic book series, you will enjoy the story. Despite it separates itself 
 from the original story, it has a great different story and episodes.
  
  Character animations, dialogues and acting are really good. It makes you feel like you are in a 
 movie.
  
  The gameplay is great. Despite the storyline separates from comics, the gameplay makes you feel 
 like the Darkness and enjoy every seconds you play the game.
  
  The sound of the Darkness and in-game dark effects and atmosphere is wonderful, dark and gothic, 
 as the way it supposed to be.
  
  Extras are good, you can read the comics in Extras, and in-game extras makes you do funny calls 
 and talks and interesting mails and secrets. Just great.
  
  Neutral:
  
  The controls are so-so. It could be better, the gun controls are moderate and easy, but darkness 
 controls are nice. 
  
  Final Review:
  
  It is a 6.5. Cause I am a Darkness comics fan, and I am disappointed by the storyline. And what 
 makes PS3 a great console are graphics and freely physics. You can see flexible physics, but the 
 graphics are not worth PS3. So below its potential.
  
  If you are not a Darkness fan, you will enjoy the game, but if you are a fan, buy it just if you 
 wanna act like Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex1029
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 9:53 am PT
Review:  Just finished the game last night after spending about 12 hours playing through it. From the get 
 go, the graphics didn't really impress me as they should have. Maybe this is because I'm mainly 
 a PC gamer, but either way, I was expecting better.
  The voice acting was excellent, which in turn made the story that much better.
  The gameplay 
 was pretty good... it was kinda difficult to manage the darklings and switch between darkness powers 
 and the weapons I was using at the same time which is somewhat required at times for more difficult 
 situations. Wouldn't call it clunky though.
  The game is too short. I know that you can go through all the side quests, but honestly that just 
 has you running around between the two subway stations and then wandering around aimlessly till 
 you can find where you're supposed to be.
  Way too many loading points... everytime you try to enter or leave the subway, or go between boroughs, 
 theres a cutscene (which sometimes are completely useless and about 30 seconds long) and then another 
 15 or so seconds stacked on top of that. Really dampens the flow of the game. 
  I liked using some of the darkness powers, but at times they were too hard to handle vs. just using 
 whatever guns you got on you.
  By far, the black hole power is the best... the others are "ok."
  The ending hinted at maybe there 
 being a sequel, and if so, I hope they clean up the graphics and gameplay a little bit to really 
 take advantage of the power of the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 7, 2008 12:19 am PT
Review:  Well this is The Darkness, and when you think of the darkness; What do you think of, bad, well 
 you are the bad in this game. This game is about mobsters-New York at that-no doubt, but think 
 about it; in this game you can eat hearts. Now how awesome is that.
  
  Well let me start off by saying you are playing the character by the name of Jackie Estacado, and 
 this game starts off pretty good being your 21st birthday when you wake up in the backseat of a 
 high speed convertible driving carelessly down a road knocking traffic, cars, etc. out of its way 
 along the way. Well you are then informed that the two buddies who are in the front seats are running 
 from cops and apparently you got tagged in. Well you are thrown a shotgun and expected to help. 
 After a little bit of driving through construction your friend leans out over the right side of 
 the car and gets knocked the____ out by the vehicle next to you. Then the driver kicked him out 
 of the vehicle because he is dead. Wow, nice friend. Then all of a sudden-since you are in a construction 
 yard-you wreck and you find your friend lying there almost dead. He gives you your birthday gift, 
 some guns. You then find our Uncle Paulie has a hit onyou and wants you dead because of some "foul 
 play."
  
  He sends hits out on the people you care most about, your girlfriend, who you can go to her house 
 and watch the whole movie of "To Kill A Mockingbird." 
  I don't see how this ties in unless it is about you being an outsider. But then you here these 
 deep, dark, mysterious voices that to be known as "The Darkness that possess your body. You have 
 control of these demonic creatures that sort of look like giant black snakes on each side of your 
 shoulders. Like the name of the game The Darkness, that is what these nasty, but helpful creatures 
 like. If their is light around, they want you to shoot them out or you can have "The Darkness" 
 power strike them out. Having the darkness manifested gives you more immunity towards damage. You 
 can have these creatures sneak up on people by crawling on the ground-you being far away-and snatching 
 people's hearts out, which this gives The Darkness its powers. You can also have your arm just 
 go through an enemy like a knife. Once you enough powers you can get the black whole which can 
 send numerous enemies into and just across the room and just kill them.
  
  You also have weapons like I stated earlier. But you start off with the dual-pistols and you will 
 basically finish with them because they are the most effective weapon. Also there isn't a big selection 
 of weapons. About 4 or 5 which they aren't that great. The AI (artificial intelligence) isn't that 
 smart. They stand in the open a lot and get shot. It's not completely bad though. The story is 
 very great though. You feel like it is you in the game. I'm not going to ruin the game for you, 
 but their is one point in the game that pisses you off and maybe will make you shed a tear or two. 
 This story line sucks you in and just makes you mad by what good but bad things happen in the game. 
 It veers off a little bit but to a good direction. Kind of weird though. You'll have to find out 
 yourself though.
  
  The campaign is long, but their are also some side-missions that are quit fun. From just going 
 around and threatening people to leave other people alone to having to do some dirty work to someone 
 betting you, you can't jump down in there in front of a subway train and get the four quarters 
 before the next train comes. This is exhilarating and will take a couple of times. But it is fun 
 and you will love to do more times. You will also see phone numbers all over the place, so write 
 the numbers down because when you are in a subway station, you will see a pay phone where you can 
 call these numbers and get extra content.
  
  Graphically the game looks good but not spectacular like other gaming websites say. I didn't think 
 they were that great. Now the cutscenes as in when he is talking look amazing but in game isn't 
 that great. It goes up to 1080p but if you have standard, you might have a hard time reading some 
 of the phone numbers mentioned earlier. But it looks grainy even in 1080p a little. 
  
  Sound wise it is pretty awesome especially the voice acting. Like I stated earlier, the story line 
 pulls you in and will affect you emotionally because of the voice acting. Jackie, you in the game, 
 has the perfect voice for this game, with him contraying as a tough-guy with nothing to lose. Everyone 
 you meet in this game has great acting skills and 2K did a great job of hiring people for this 
 one.
  
  Their is a multiplayer with many different game modes, but it is very poor. Looks like it was just 
 added on to be added on. When you get done with this single-player campaign, you can go online, 
 but this will ruin the experience. The single-player is the strong suit. Not doubt about it.
  
  Now altogether you should go get this game. It could have been a little bit better but overall 
 it is still a great game. It is underrated because you don't hear much about it even though it 
 does get some alright ratings. The marketing of this game did a poor job. The gameplay is solid 
 and should be enjoyed by all. Come on, who doesn't want to torturize people by eating their hearts 
 out. You know you want too. Go get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eibenss
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 4:35 pm PT
Review:  Cons: The controls were so-so. When you are controlling the creeping dark, I found it very easy 
 to get disoriented. Playing in the dark gets frustrating. You should be able to see better in darkness 
 mode. It can make it tough to find doors. I got tired of bumping into walls trying to find them. 
 The map is totally useless so it is easy to get turned around. An icon of your current position 
 would have been most helpful. Instead it shows the area you are currently in. Pros: The concept 
 of the game is good. It's fun discovering your minions as you level up your darkness meter. I had 
 no trouble keeping ammo in my weapons thanks to your abilty to use the darkness to do most of the 
 dirty work. The storyline keeps you playing even though you should have gone to bed hours ago. 
 All in all this is a solid game but it isn't a must buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benevolentbob
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game so much. Its dark, its gritty, and its creative. Turns out, 
 that's about all it has.
  
  The graphics are good enough. If I had to say anything bad about it I guess it would be that it 
 seems to really lack textures. The lighting is solid enough, as is the frame-rate and I didn't 
 notice any pop-in. People mention that there's a bunch of glitches but I didn't really see any. 
 I saw really bad design choices, but no genuine technical faults.
  
  The soundwork is solid. The voice acting is actually well done and the sound effects are fine, 
 nothing specil but not bad either.
  
  The game-play and story are where this game truly falls flat. Some kind of demon possesses a mobster 
 with an incredibly horrible haircut. The developers don't give any reason for it, you just happen 
 to be possessed. The storyline is your average mobster flick, you were screwed over, go get your 
 revenge. Your character's movement is horrible, it feels as if you're sliding around all over the 
 place. The aiming is sloppy and all over the place. If you're aiming for someone's body, be prepared 
 to unload a couple of clips before they die, but that's ok because it seems as if your crosshairs 
 automatically go for the head. Your demon powers are by far the best part of the game, but they're 
 extremely unbalanced and over powered. THe developers used very archaic level design. Its very 
 straight forward, and several times there's no going back. If you mess something up, you may have 
 to load a previous save rather than just continue because you don't have your demon power saved 
 up to do a particualr thing. Really, really old-school level design, and not in the good way.
 
  
  This game had a lot of promise, but it failed me in just about every possible way. Its really too 
 bad, but you're much better off playing one of the many other shooters available. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 6, 2008 5:09 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is based on the series of American comic books produced by Top Cow Productions. The 
 comic first appeared in 1996 and enjoyed an initial period of relative success during the Top Cow/Image 
 Comics boom of the late 1990s. However, Top Cow was forced to "re-launch" the comic in 2002 after 
 sales began to drop. The Darkness has sold over 1 million copies worldwide.
  
  The series was created by Marc Silvestri, Garth Ennis, and David Wohl.
  
  You play Mafia hitman, 
 Jackie Estacado who discovers he wields a terrible power that can destroy his enemies without mercy. 
 But his powers will end at a price. 
  
  THe game is pretty much good. But nothing great. I was expecting the game to be a bit more, well 
 scary but it was not at all scary. THe game is more of just an action game where you go around 
 and kill any enemy that stands in your way. You can do this by using normal weapons, guns and so 
 forth or, you can use the darkness with in you. The darkness is really the only cool thing about 
 the game. You can summon the darkness to devour, impale or implode your enimies. The darkness however 
 cannot withstand light so in order to use the darkness you will ether have to find a dark place 
 to unlease the darkness within you, or shoot out al the lights. 
  I found the game quite boring to start with and very linear. The games does indeed get better later 
 on, but not enough to recommend to a hardcore gamer. The game is worth playing is you want something 
 to play till a big title you have your eye on comes out but if your looking for a great 1st person 
 shooter that you can play for quite some time with a good replay vaule, i don't think the darkness 
 is that game. 
  The gameplay is quite good, nice voice acting. Good sound effects, it's not to long and it's not 
 to short. There are a few memorable moments. 
  
  I give the darkness a 7.5/10 Good game, but not great. 
  
  "I got the darkness on release date, 
 and even though i give it a 7.5/10 and happy to have it in my collection." 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FEPowered390
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2008 1:50 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is an amazing title for the PS3 and Xbox 360. I was hooked the minute I started playing. 
 This game reminded me most of Dues Ex: Invisible war in how the environments are displayed. You 
 really get that "cramped", but immersed feeling such that I've received from playing Dues Ex: Invisible 
 War.
  
  I was asked just recently, "what is so good about The Darkness"? I quickly responded, "The story".
 
  
  The Story - The story is a masterpiece of you ask me. The main reason is that Jackie Estacado's 
 character development really tied you into the story itself. Basically, his uncle Paulie and his 
 gang, along with the Chicago mafia turn against him and it is up to you to save the day and clean 
 up the streets. The story never explains in depth why Paulie chose to hate Jackie, which is a question 
 that I ask myself. The story goes extremely in depth with Jenny (his girlfriend) and this is where 
 YOU as the gamer really feel angered with Paulie. Jackie pretty much goes through hell and back 
 (literally) in order to seek revenge. This game is very emotional, and the developers really hit 
 the spot hard on this one.
  
  The Gameplay - The gameplay is fantastic. I really cannot say anything bad about it. The Darkness 
 is very fun to use. You will spend most of the time exploiting your power. However, gunplay still 
 remains to be a valid link in your ways of proceeding through the game.
  
  MISC - Some of the "things" that The Darkness has incorporated are phenomenal. There are many TVs 
 placed around in the game, which allow you to watch certain full length movies and cartoons. This 
 is pretty damn near neat if you ask me. There are many collectables scattered throughout the world, 
 so it allows the game to be less linear. There are several side quests that you can do, and if 
 you look close enough, you might find a few phone numbers written on the wall that you can dial 
 on the phone!
  
  The Characters - The character development is very apparent in this game. You will learn to become 
 emotionally attached to many characters. You will REALLY feel that you are apart of Jackie, and 
 you will feel the same way he feels during his many dialogues. The voice acting is superb, you 
 just simply cannot ask for more here.
  
  The Difficulty - I completed this title on "normal" mode, and it was far from easy. There were 
 certain spots there were quite simple. However, most gameplay required me to be tactical, and use 
 cover. Even with the darkness out, it will only takes two good shots to drop you like a brick. 
 Prepared to get a little frustrated in certain areas. The difficulty on normal is challenging, 
 but it was extremely perfect for my tastes.
  
  The Problems - I found that the ending was a bit rushed, and certain elements could have been better 
 shown. Paulie doesn't give you much of a fight at all. The ending was really comprised of beating 
 down a lot of Paulie's thugs to get to him. I also found a gameplay glitch, in when I could not 
 complete a side quest because the other character wouldn't detect that I had the "list". This costed 
 me a few collectables, and possibly more side quests that I could have completed.
  
  I also found Multiplayer to be very bare. The game modes looked extremely fun, but I couldn't experience 
 them due to no players playing.
  
  Pros:
  
   Fantastic Gameplay
   Immersive Environment (like Dues Ex: Invisible War)
   Story was phenomenal
   Attention 
 to detail (Graphics were great, graffiti was beautiful)
   Jackie is one of the coolest main characters I've ever seen
   Excellent graphics with very 
 minor slowdowns
   Voice acting and scripting were brilliant
  
  Cons:
  
   A few gameplay glitches which inhibit you from completing certain side quests.
   Multiplayer 
 is bare
   Ending felt a bit rushed 
  
  The Darkness has been the greatest experience on the PS3 thus far....
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragonkiller012
Rating: 5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Good:
  - An great presentation and story about the protagonist
  - Devouring hearts is quite fun
  - Easy mode is the funnest
  
  Bad:
  - Frame rate issues 
 will make you annoyed, especially in harder difficulty
  - Graphics looks crooked
  - Shooting is almost useless in this game
  - There's hardly anyone in online so getting 100% 
 in achievements is useless and difficult
  
  The Darkness..... you heard of the name... because it's from a comic book of the same name. The game 
 to me when it came out was very anticipated. I've tried out the demo version of it. Thought it 
 was quite interesting so I've try out the real thing but it turns out the only good thing is the 
 story itself and nothing more. The Darkness stunk on frame rate problems, the graphics looking 
 misplaced, and the guns doesn't feel right. And yet no one is online, probably they only last online 
 when they first bought the game. The only fun you can get is easy mode. Don't even bother challenge 
 yourself in harder difficulty, because they're not blended out right and are considered cheating 
 which will leave you frustrated and breaking your controller. Trust me. My controller from the 
 stress and frustration in Normal difficulty. So you play as a guy named Jackie Estacado whose uncle 
 betrayed him of an attempted murder and he gets back to him with darkness power. With plot twists 
 and intense scene. I think this is the best game story from a comic book I've ever saw. The interface 
 is ugly in a bad way, especially on standard definition television. I mean you can't see any much 
 things on the map or on the screen with the freakishly small text. I'm not sure about high-definition 
 television but it better be good. So for HDTV, I'm not sure. Overall, I do not recommend this game 
 to anybody unless as a torture for people. I broke my SIXAXIS controller 2K. You owe me 50 bucks 
 excluding The Darkness game price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadygeneral
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 2:03 am PT
Review:  I absolutely loved this game. From the smack in the face like intense & brutal opening to the victory 
 over your main enemy that will have you punching the air, its one hell of a thrill ride.
  
  First of all the backstory. You control a guy called Jackie that lived in an orphanage as a kid, 
 who then gets adopted & brought up by a mafia family. I dont want to spoil any of it, but something 
 happens & you end up chasing the head guy of the mafia down. However he has help with this, Jackie 
 has inherited something off his family called The Darkness. Its basicaly like another character 
 or demon within him & it means he can sprout 2 Demon heads out of his body & loads of sharp tentacles. 
 It sounds ridiculous but its actualy handled in such a brilliant way that I never really found 
 it odd or questioned it.
  
  But my God, its an evil little thing. The first cut-scene where you find out about The Darkness 
 is one of the most brutal & cool scenes ive ever seen. The heads can extend & slide aong the floor 
 (this is one of its powers you can use but more on this later) & buildings like a cross between 
 a snake & a spider. the camera follows it & you'll see it bit half of somones face & tear out other 
 peoples necks. Its so horrible, yety cool at the same time. 
  
  In fact all the story scenes & cut-scenes are brilliantly done. The voice acting & dialogue is 
 superb, easily some of the best in a game ive ever played. The story is one you may have heard 
 before quite a few times, but because of 2 particular, incredibly powerful scenes. I doubt you'll 
 have ever cared so much & I doubt you'll have ever connected with your main character & his task 
 so much in a game, ever. Even with the strange Darkness powers. It really will pull you in by the 
 jugular & you'll be just as eager to carry out the task as Jackie is. Even the loading screens 
 are brilliant. Each one hidden by a little story from Jackie, each one entertaining. Although they 
 do sometimes repeat. You can also use phones in & ring numbers from the game world & some have 
 honestly made me laugh out loud. Very rare in a game. 
  
  The Darkness also carries its own consciences & therefore, motivations & reasons for helping Jackie. 
 He's a different character in its own right. You can hear its thoughts (which are damn creepy & 
 have a brilliant voice actor BTW) & when you have the two heads out, they carry a real personality. 
 Fighting with each other & snapping the air with their huge teeth around enemies. You can also 
 control little Darklings that come out of holes in the ground. Even these are full of personality 
 & charm. They are little playful things that wil kick about dead bodies & even urinate on them. 
 Full of great one liners too. 
  
  The connection to the game world is also superb. Its a FPS, but unlike others where you're just 
 a floating gun. In this you ar an actual characer, with legs & everything. Its a small touch that 
 adds quite a lot as it makes your movement around the game world that much more realistic. Its 
 even full of neat little touches & animations such as holding the gun up at walls & poking them 
 round corners as you are walking round them. Its all so natural & fluid. In the end it makes it 
 one ofthe most immersive & atmospheric games you could hope to play. 
  
  Next the Darkness powers. Now I'll only explain the ones you start with as the others are just 
 exciting to find & experience for yourself & I dont want to ruin it. But you start off with one 
 where you can extend one of the heads & it can scope out the landscape & enemies as well as jumping 
 up & tearing their throat out with the touch of a button. You can also scale walls which is a nice 
 touch & adds a layer of vertical depth to the game. However there are some invisible walls, which 
 is understandable but disappointing nonetheless. When the heads are out, it also grants you with 
 a shield & can repair wounds which is a novel way of explaining why Jackie can take so many bullets 
 & heal. If you havent got the heads out in combat you'll die much quicker. But you can only call 
 on the Darkness if its, well, dark. So its a good idea to shoot out street lights before engaging 
 in a fire fight. 
  
  The guns are also very satisfying to use. All apart from the pistol, really shake up the screen, 
 caryry massive recoil & can be disorientating to use. Just how they should be for your average 
 Joe. With Darkness powers.... Well you get what I mean. 
  
  However there are a few problems that stop it getting full marks. The biggest of which is the scenery. 
 Theres just not much variety. The main 'hub' as such is set in an underground subway station. You 
 will have to visit this [i] a lot [/i] & it does get a bit tedious. Also the overground bits are 
 mostly set in the streets of a very dark & very real - ie boring - city. All areas are set out 
 different & have different names but the look is almost identical to the last. Now this is realistic 
 & is part of the tone of the game & what helps it be so immersive. But that doesnt stop it becoming 
 quite dull. You also have to back track & visit the same areas many times. Again, it fits in with 
 the story & I understand why, but it is a problem. 
  
  But dont let any of that stop you buying the game. These really are small, insignificant problems 
 that only stop it getting full marks, but dont stop it being a fabulous game. While your playing 
 the you wont really mind anyway, you'll be toi immersed & enjoying yourself too much. 
  
  A very powerful & brilliant experience. Recommended to anyone that likes bit more to their games 
 other than blasting the crap out of anything that moves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: arodmell
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 13, 2008 10:23 pm PT
Review:  A reluctant buy at the game shop a month ago. 
  
  I paid only 8 and was stunned to see what this game delivered.
  
  A gritty "a-la Max Payne" 
 storyline and lashings and lashings of Dark, bloody violence made this game a lot of fun to play.
 
  
  At around 10hrs to complete (For me anyway) I felt more than happy for the money. Its easy to jump 
 into and since you "cant" die you have unlimited continues.
  
  Enemies have decent AI and once you find yourself in a room full of them, especially in later areas, 
 things can get tough. Your powers allow for some really good kills in such situations, although 
 the actual firearms you collect aren't much use. 
  
  Would you rather shoot a black hole into that group of enemies or shoot em one by one with a shotgun? 
 yeah see I told you so.
  
  Go and get this... you really wont be disappointed. I'm just shocked that this game never got a 
 lot of exposure seeing how good I though it was.
  
  
  Its all good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 55584623
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 12, 2008 5:56 pm PT
Review:  a young guy walking around possesed by a demon with two heads, killing and eating the hearts of 
 its enemies.
  sounds original and fun, but when its time to go through in the game the darkness fails and disappoint 
 you in many ways.
  
  there isnt really many good things to highlight, only the original story.
  but lets talk about 
 what makes me give a more low score for this one.
  well beggining with the gameplay. the idea of using demons sounds pretty fun but in the game its 
 not really so interesting.
  eating the enemies heart gets old fast and using the demons to take the enemies down its not fun, 
 since all you gotta do is use its head to crawl through the scenario and get your enemies, and 
 it just makes the game too easy.
  talking about the gunplay now, the auto-aim system usually disturbs you more than helps.
  since 
 every time you face an enemy the game attempts to aim in it for you, but to do this he moves only 
 the aim and not the camera so the crosshair gets off the middle of the screen. so when you move 
 you fight against the game by turning side-to-side you character attempting to shoot other enemies 
 and to adjust the aim.
  and the worst of all, i deactivated the auto-aim system in the options menu, and it didnt work! 
 the game kept trying to aim for me. 
  and at last the strange missions system. everytime you complete a missions you have to go back 
 to the same subway and walk around to find out where is the next mission, and that is so boring.
 
  not to metion the more advanced missions that explains the story of the game, those missions are 
 boring nightmares where you have to walk through empty fields with random enemies and find even 
 more random ways out.
  the level design is really poor on those levels.
  
  concluding, maybe you can rent the darkness like i did, i honestly i advice you to do so, but in 
 the end you will be disappointed by it poor experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterRey69
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 1, 2008 9:42 pm PT
Review:  This game will keep u in the border of the couch or will make u not to feel the floor (depending 
 where u play) with the non stop action the things u discover as long as u play it, the game have 
 everything a bloodthirsty experienced gamer its looking for like blood, awesome weapons and a 
 challenge if u dont pay attention to the mid scenes, lol, the game tells 2 stories at the sametime 
 without getting the player confused, also the awesome powers the darkness gives you make it even 
 funnier to empale the enemies and eat their hearts. the game has some weapons to choose that are 
 very good at the moment of the ass kicking, for example the mercyless ak-47 or the assault rifle, 
 not to forget the darklings u get while playing the game that help a lot specially the kamikaze 
 one but like every other game it has the pros and cons. The end of the game is very confusing because 
 once u complete the last mission they dont tell what happened with jackie and the darkness, hopefully 
 there will be a secuel of this great game with more weapons and a more mercyless and powerfull 
 darkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 13, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  There are some games that are just the right mixture of story telling, action and this game is 
 one of them. You play a character that once he turned 21 (when the games starts) you have The darkness 
 festering in you. You objective is to find the killer of your girl friend and along the way you 
 find the origin of the darkness and how it ended up in your body (why 21st b-day... is still a 
 mystery maybe the darkness wanted to wait for you to be able to drink legally) anyway the graphics 
 are great the story is fantastic and best of all you can get this for a low price now (about $30 
 for the PS3) . So as X-play would say this is a great game for cheap bastards. I'm glad they are 
 making a sequel and am eagerly anticipating that. The only negative I could say about this game 
 is the character development, what you see is how he is in the 1st minute up until the last few 
 minutes where he lets his guard down a little (no spoilers) and the aiming is a bit off which is 
 kind of important when you are playing a FPS and you need to shoot lights a hundred feet away, 
 but despite that, this game was just fun to play and chewing up hearts was great. The little minions 
 you can control is also fun and funny if you listen to their comments which sort of break up the 
 tension a little. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 750sho
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2008 10:07 pm PT
Review:  Awesome Game. First one I played on my PS3. Soundtrack and voice acting are superb. Such a dark 
 story, that you totally get immersed in. He's a bad ass, he eats hearts, he throws stuff with The 
 Darkness... It's great. Just great. I'd recommend this to anyone who has testosterone. And gamespot 
 won't let me send this without it having one hundred words, and i totally think that it's gay because 
 if i were to write something that long, i'd totally want to be paid for it. But the play control 
 is good, graphics are not the best ever, but still, really good. The opening scene will make you 
 want to keep playing... I dunno, i can't say enough about how awesome this game is. It is kind 
 of easy since you can just use the darkness to kill everyone, but honestly, it doesn't really ever 
 get old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CCHIPSS
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 8, 2008 12:21 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best game I have played where I play as the monster of the game. 
  
  Basically the game is about fighting evil and corruption with demonic power you gained. You get 
 tons of skills to slaughter enemies with. In this game, you scare the people you want to kill, 
 not the other way around. So it isn't really a horror shooter. 
  
  The combat in normal mode is fair, and very hard in hard mode. Hard mode was very tough in that 
 you die after very few hits. So pretty much you need to head shot anyone you see right away. Once 
 you get demonic powers, abuse them whenever you can. 
  
  Story is not too bad. Enough to keep you going. There are lots of side quests. But I think all 
 of them feature you being the good guy and doing good things for people. Not that it is a bad thing, 
 but having a choice to be evil instead could have made thing more interesting. 
  
  Music is pretty intense. No complain. 
  
  To conclude, if slaughtering enemies with demonic 
 powers in a pretty decent story interest you then this is your game. If you want to be scared instead 
 then get something else. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 7, 2008 4:20 am PT
Review:  Lets head back in time to the early ages of the PS3 console, when the only FPS game it had was 
 Resistance: Fall of Man (which I forgot to review) . Then from the darkness it rose. A game no one 
 knew about. A game so dark in every aspect that it cannot be called anything else than dark. The 
 game called: The Darkness.
  
  When this game first appeared in our consoles as a downloadable demo, it immediately captivated 
 its audience with its dark atmosphere and cool gameplay. Some people (me included) had never heard 
 about the comic books of the same name that this game was based on. Still, the demo was so finely 
 made without giving anything about its storyline that a lot of people bought the game afterwards. 
 And boy, were we in for a surprise.
  
  Graphics:
  Graphics are usually the first thing you notice when starting up a game (unless you're playing 
 with your eyes shut) . In the case of The Darkness, the graphics were absolutely stunning. However, 
 now that time has caught up with it, its graphics should be called average, since a lot of games 
 offer better graphics nowadays. The game's darkness gives the graphics a dark, Film Noir style 
 visual appearance. The only time you'll ever see sunlight in the game are few seconds at the beginning 
 of the game, before you enter the tunnel. As if giving you a last glimpse of light, before the 
 darkness consumes you.
  
  Sound:
  Usually sound is at the bottom of my priority list as I don't believe that any game could be made 
 significantly better by topping it's sound effects. The Darkness makes the impossible, by emphasizing 
 its sound and music so well that I'd play the game even if I was blind. The voice acting of the 
 game is the best I have ever heard and is better played out than in most of the movies. The only 
 bad side about the voice acting is the lip syncing, which works well for the most parts, but for 
 some reason, the main character Jackie Estecado seems to be a ventriloquist. You'd think that the 
 main character would be done better than others, but its completely the other way around. It's 
 like the game was supposed to never show Jackie talking (as this is an FPS game) , but then they 
 decided to do it anyway and finished it as quickly as possible. 
  
  I have a hard time finding any point in the game, where the voice acting was not top notch. During 
 the opening drive with those two hilarious goons, I noticed that the game had better voice acting 
 than most games. Then Jackie starts talking and im awestruck. Kirk Acevedo (who plays Miguel Alvarez 
 in the hit series Oz) , who voices Jackie, makes such a awesome job at it that im struggling to 
 find a better performance in any other game before it. And then, just a few moments later im being 
 delivered the killing blow that sends me to videogame heaven, when The Darkness speaks its first 
 lines. My skin goes goosebumps and im genuinely freaked out. Mike Patton as the voice of Darkness 
 delivers the most creepiest, scariest and most addictive voices ever performed in any media. It 
 went so far that I have been looking all over the net if anyone has a compilation of those voices 
 so I could put those to my Windows start up sounds. So far no luck. The music of the game is also 
 freaking sweet. From Marilyn Manson to Defleshed (and of course Mike Pattons Tomahawk) , the soundtrack 
 will not leave you cold. Definitely worth checking out, if you are into game OSTs (like me) .
  
  Storyline:
  This is the big one. The main reason to play this game. The Darkness has a story 
 so twisted and so... dark that it's impossible to stop playing it once you get into it. I'll try 
 to avoid giving off anything that might ruin the experience for you. So I'll give you the back 
 story. Jackie Estecado is a hitman working for the Franchetti crime family. At his 21st birthday 
 he becomes possessed by a dark power called simply The Darkness. The game starts, when Jackie wakes 
 up from a car driven by his two friends that tell him they screwed up some hit. Now instead of 
 going back to his uncle Paulie, who is currently the head of the family, they decide to go for 
 another hit in an attempt to soothe uncle Paulie, who seems to be very eager to kill everyone for 
 the slightest mistake. During this hit, it becomes obvious that Paulie wants you dead and you are 
 forced to run and hide. Then the darkness shows up and aids you kill everyone. Now Paulie is not 
 very pleased with this and the circle of revenge starts. He does something to piss you off, then 
 you do something to piss him off. This cat and mouse game is the heart of the story, but it becomes 
 so emotional and so dark that no other game or a movie so far has ever been as deep or finely written. 
 
  
  The game also has the most pitch blackest humor I have ever seen in a game and so much swearing 
 that it was banned in Singapore. I noticed the harsh language when I played it, but it never got 
 so excessive that it would demean the quality of the game. On the contrary, the swearing brings 
 an element of reality to the whole mess, making it feel more immersive than it already is. A lot 
 of times you will find people conversing to each other with dialogue that makes Quentin Tarantino 
 envious. I thought I'd give you an example with a dialogue that I recently witnessed again, where 
 two NPC's talk about some disturbing stuff.
  NPC 1: "Hypothetically speaking, would a moose have sex with me, if I'd give him 10 million dollars?"
 
  NPC 2: "Depends on the moose. If it was a genetically altered moose, with a brain power equal 
 to a human and capable of speech. I'd have to say yes."
  NPC 1: "Okay. Anywhere I could find such horny, naughty moose'es?"
  NPC 2: "Sweden most likely. 
 And everybody knows that swedes are open minded, when it comes to sex. Cross-species sex too im 
 sure."
  NPC 1: "Yeah, those filthy swedes. God bless them."
  Im not making this up.
  
  Gameplay:
  The gameplay in the Darkness is not at par with its intense storyline, but it also 
 doesn't get in the way of it. Playing with the Darkness powers is fun, for awhile until you get 
 tired of using the same moves over and over. Which makes you want to have a little variety in those 
 powers. From the start you have the Creeping Dark, which is basically a black worm that can climb 
 every wall and ceiling and attack enemies from a safe distance behind a wall. It's the most safest 
 way to kill any enemy that you encounter in this game and basically makes the difficulty curve 
 take a nose dive and drop flat on the floor. Even on hard difficulty the hardest level is the first 
 one, where you dont yet have the darkness powers. After you gain them, the rest of the game is 
 a cakewalk. You also gain powers such as Demon Arm, which is basically like a big tentacle that 
 can impale any opponent and lift/throw any obstacle. Then there is the Black Hole power that sucks 
 all nearby enemies into it and kills them. Oh and then there are the Darkness Guns, which are basically 
 empowered pistols that have infinite ammo. Talking about making it easy for us. 
  
  There also seems to be some issues with the controls. When running diagonally to a wall you sometimes 
 come to a halt and even though how much you push forward, it ain't moving. Only after you realize 
 that you have to let go of the analog (let it reset) , the movement becomes normal again. Also, 
 Jackie seems to be quite out of shape or just lazy, since he tends to walk everywhere. Moving seems 
 so slow that it made me look at the control schematic to see if there is a sprint button. But there 
 aint. When crouching, you move like Solid Snake when he is crawling. Heck, maybe even slower than 
 that. But wait, there's more. When you are using the precise aiming mode, which basically zooms 
 your view just few inches, Jackie moves again slower. Lot of times I'm moving forward more slower 
 than normal and then I notice I left the zoom on. All these flaws are minor issues that have little 
 effect on the experience. So the gameplay is not as fast paced than most games and it's easy enough 
 for 5-year olds to complete (which they shouldn't be playing, since the game is rated M/18+) .
 
  
  
  Overall, I love this game. It's dark atmosphere and storyline hooked me in from the very beginning 
 and didn't let go until I had completed the game - 3 times. The game is not that long, you can 
 easily complete it in less than 10 hours. It took me about twice that on my first play-through. 
 It's as they say, good games tend to end too quickly, and bad games seem to last forever. This 
 game had all the ingredients for a perfect game, but they screwed it up by making the game too 
 easy and didn't really emphasize that much on the gameplay. The game has some RPG elements, like 
 Darkness levels that you get by eating the hearts of your enemies, but they really didn't take 
 any advantage of that. All you get from these levels is more damage immunity, which is needlessly 
 high anyway. It may be truthful to the comics, but it doesn't work that well as a game. Despite 
 the flaws, I still recommend it to anyone interested in First Person Shooters with a very good 
 storyline and a decent gameplay. Just don't play it if you are afraid of the dark.
  
  The Good
  + The plot is one of the best ever in a video game
  + The Darkness powers
  + Filled 
 with pitch black humor
  + Beautiful Graphics
  + Voice acting
  + Music
  
  The Bad
  - Control issues
  - Short and too easy
  - Lip syncing
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:43 pm PT
Review:  Hiya Yall,
  
  On my first play through this game i craved the powers of the darkness my self, it is rare that 
 you feel this powerful in any game throwing cars about like they are rag dolls and feels so much 
 better when you drop it on some poor guys head *splat*
  
  Voice acting on most of the characters is top notch, you can't help but feel for Jackie his story 
 will make you want to rip every guys heart of there chest again and again and again. The cut scenes 
 shot in F. P. (First person) are just brutal and you can't help but get draged into the story, you 
 will find your self doing every last little thing every little phone call EVERY LITTLE NOOK AND 
 CRANNY will be probed looking for every little bit of power.
  
  Your minions i have mixed feelings here, they are useful and a brilliant laugh, but they are only 
 useful at the right times shame really. Getting up close to people and blasting them with the flash 
 CQC kills (close quarters combat) always brought a smile to my face.
  
  Now the main part of the darkness that has infected poor old Jackie is the demon arms, using them 
 to scout out areas or to rip out some goons wind pipe and listen to him drown on his own blood 
 never gets old, the huge spike ramming it through the chest of a bent cop then throwing his life 
 less corpse across the room gives you the feel that you are untouchable, in the darkness that maybe 
 but when the lights come on... then you are in trouble... BIG TROUBLE 
  
  A few guns but i reckon you will be spending most of your time using the pistols or assault rifles
 
  
  Over all a treat 
  
  A movie that is also a game.
  
  Thank you for readying
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdcrane27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 28, 2008 3:15 pm PT
Review:  This is a very story-driven game, and it has a very interesting story driving it... If you're looking 
 for a game that will really engage you, this one might be worth considering. If, however, you have 
 a case of ADD and you need to have the constant running and gunning of something along the lines 
 of Halo, you might want to pass on this one. For a FPS, there isn't anywhere near as much shooting 
 as I would have expected. There is some, but most of it can really be avoided by taking advantage 
 of your Darkness powers.
  Which brings me to my next point: Since you have these supernatural powers, but nobody else does, 
 this game ends up being fairly easy to get through. Half the kills in it you can perform from the 
 safety of around a corner by sending your "Creeping Dark" to do the killing for you. You really 
 have the upper hand in almost every single confrontation, and it leaves a lot of the fight scenes 
 a little unfulfilling. But does that really take away from this being a game worth playing? I don't 
 really think so, just so long as you go into it looking for a very interesting storyline instead 
 of a lot of shooting.
  
  Basically, I see this game as being part Bioshock and part Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher 
 Bay... and then that combination sold its soul to the devil. It has the same kind of action/adventure 
 feel that Riddick did, where you could do side missions for other people in the game, outside of 
 the actual story. Then, like in Bioshock, you had access to both your traditional guns and "other" 
 weapons. Just instead of being genetically altered, you're possessed... By the way, parents, don't 
 let your kids play this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Claverleykid
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 26, 2008 3:12 am PT
Review:  Write then, the darkness is a first person open world action game. But with a twist the main character 
 has evil demonic powers oooooo....
  
  Pros= Great imersive story, graphics are amazing, the load screens because they are a cutscene, 
 the darkness powers and guns make you fell like a true badass. You get 4 unique powers. (Carn't 
 tell you them dew to the lack of space I've been given.)
  
  
  Cons= The AI is not HAZE bad but it does have some problems. Enemys don't really take cover more 
 like running at you. The darklings are gremlins whick are supposed to help you. NO!! the one has 
 a gun and half the time is shooting at you and not the enemy. Getting to powerful. Once you have 
 all darkness powers and mastered the lock on targeting you are too powerful. When you get the get 
 the black hole which sucks everthing in around it the dum enemy's are demolished. Shooting lights 
 out in rooms to get your powers is a pain. Tacked on multiplayer.
  
  This game deserves a buy. 8.5 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 24, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  When this game was released, we all went crazy with excitment, and rushed to our nearest game store 
 to buy it with our money in our hands, and our minds that thought this game was going to be great. 
 Hmmm, now i wished i didn't spend 50 ($40) on a game that lacked that sense of depth and darkness. 
 Taking the name of the game, and the plot details, i thought this was going to be a new breed of 
 scary gunplay, but ended up being a badly set video game, a game to add to the list of Haze and 
 Motrostorm, the worst games ever, well, there ok...
  
  I slipped the disc into my Playstation3, feeling all excited. The openeing scene, you are in the 
 back of a car, shooting away at police. This didn't seem that exciting, and felt very controlled. 
 You crash, and then you are drawn to a evil dark power, and you must fight your way through some 
 skinny workmen on a top of a building. At this point, it was fun. Getting to grips with your handy 
 pistols, and lock on targeting makeing it easy. The gunplay seems a little under looked for some 
 reason, they don't look realistic and take a long time to reload. the fact you can use the guns 
 left to right makes it good and quite enjoyable, but the bullets looks like a baby has just spewed 
 all up the screen. So, you move around various levels, and i must say, moving is terrible. Jumping 
 is fun though, even though you can only jump onto certain objects, again makes it controlling. 
 I think this game is a bit under budget, the graphics are that good, and other creatures look blured 
 and gritty.
  
  The plot is probably the best thing in the game. it's written well, acted well and takes you to 
 superb locations, and the cutscenes are great. This game is ment ti be scary, but it lacks that 
 sense of fear. You come around a corner and expect something to lash out, but no, nothing! You 
 walk and walk in various places but you fianlly find like three eneimes, that are easy to kill 
 and eat (by eat i mean your Darkness powers) . I think this game needs a sequel, but they would 
 need better graphics and better gunplay. I think my score on this is fare, but i think this game 
 is fun, but a rent first!
  
  7.5 out of 10.0! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseystryker
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 3:48 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game with based upon a comic book series. Now I know what you're thinking, "oh 
 great, another Spawn." Rest assured that this isn't the case at all. The game's atmosphere and 
 presentation prove to be top notch all the way.
  
  Fans of the comic book series will already familiar with the general idea surrounding the game. 
 For those of you who don't know, don't worry. Even if you've never read a single comic book in 
 your life, you'll find that the storytelling and presentation provide plenty of build up, and the 
 game's characters are surprisingly well developed making for an enjoyable, if not slightly construed 
 storyline.
  
  The main protagonist in the game is a character named Jackie Estacado. A young man who grew up 
 in the tough streets of NYC, and who was born into a very prominent mafia family. A series of events 
 eventually leads up to the unveiling of a dark essence that has been waiting for the right time 
 to manifest itself in Jackie's body. Cue the darkness. You'll soon be devouring hearts and leveling 
 up your darkness level in a blood soaked adventure that literally takes you to hell and back... then 
 back to hell...... and back one more time.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay has the standard controls for console FPS games. The left analog stick makes 
 you turn and the right analog stick makes you strafe forward, back, left, and right. For what it 
 is, it works well enough, though there are times when you wish the overall contols were slightly 
 smoother, but nothing that seriously hampers the experience. Perhaps the most annoying issue is 
 trying to control your snake.... the snake in the game that is. At first it can be a bit tricky 
 getting it to go where you want it to go, but after an hour or two of ripping hearts out it becomes 
 pretty intuitive. The main thing that sets this game apart from others in the same genre is that 
 fact that you actually feel like a demon wielding ungodly powers. Something that most games of 
 this sort lack. The most compelling part about this game is, without a doubt, the storytelling 
 and voice acting. It almost sounds like they hired some people from the Sopranos cast to do voice 
 overs for this game. The only other PS3 that even rivals it in terms of voice acting is Uncharted: 
 Drakes Fortune. 
  
  Graphics: Now I know this game has been out for over a year, but the graphics still impressed me 
 quite a bit. Obviously it's a dark game, but the way they convey they overall darkness of a demon 
 infested NYC is still pretty impressive. Strangly enough, the streets of New York are extremely 
 barren. It would have been nice to see more NPC's that you could interact with, but they game does 
 well enough with what it has.
  
  Sound: The sound is definitely one of the main highlights of the game. Voice overs are done exceptionally 
 well and it actually feels like the Darkness is talking directly to YOU when it speaks. Great music 
 really helps set the tone along with the ability to watch full length music videos, cartoons, and 
 even the entire movie "To Kill a Mockingbird" from any of the television sets in the game. How 
 cool is that? 
  
  Overall: My primary complaint is that the game is just too darn easy, and even when you do die, 
 the numerous save points and unlimited continues takes away what little challenge there is. With 
 that said, however, if you're looking to get into a unique FPS with fantastic storytelling and 
 interesting character then do yourself a favor and pick up "The Darkness". 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheHazardousOne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:29 pm PT
Review:  this game is nothing else like i have ever played before. darkness really is one of a kind. the 
 story is amazing. the graphics are top notch. the gameplay is really fun. later on in the game 
 you get this demon power. the more people that you kill. the more hearts that you can eat right 
 out of there chest. the more hearts the more power. so kill kill kill. later on in the hell you 
 take a trip to tell because you shot yourself in the head. and take on a bunch of mindless nazi 
 scums. darkness is a perfect name. make sure you stay in the dark. shot out every light that you 
 see. the more dark your in the more power that you get. i just loved playing this game. it's so 
 addicting. you just cant wait to see the story. has a very evil feeling to this game. i loved this 
 game. im sure your going to. you either need to rent this game or buy this game. your going to 
 love it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Zerostatic0
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 14, 2008 9:56 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is the kind of game that I think most people will either love or hate. It all depends 
 on whether this is your type of game. If you like story oriented action games like Half-life 2, 
 Condemned, and Bioshock then you will like this game. What those 3 games as well as the Darkness 
 have in common is that they have excellent atmosphere and great characters. However from a pure 
 gameplay standpoint all of those games as well as the Darkness are nothing special. Games like 
 Halo and Call of Duty 4 are much better shooters from a strategic standpoint. The Darkness feels 
 much more slow and sluggish then Halo or Call of Duty 4. The Darkness powers do add some spice 
 to keep it from getting too stale.
  
  I think the length is perfect though some complain that it is too short (it took me about 10 hours 
 to beat it) . The ending could have been better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 15, 2008 5:44 am PT
Review:  Based on a comic book The Darkness is setten in New York City where a Mafia Hitman. Jackie Estacado 
 becomes even more deadly when a terrifying inheritance is thrust upon him on his 21st birthday. 
 He was possessed by The Darkness, Jackie discovers he wields a dark and terrible power whic he 
 could control to destroy enimies around him. But the price to pay is his own soul. Story does get 
 wired when your in the first world war as well how the Darkness came across his family legacy.
 
  
  Gameplay= Like other first person games your just shooting your enimies with what ever guns you'll 
 be covering alot if you get hit. You can also use Darkness to grab enimies, use Shadow crawler 
 where you send a creeping dark to some work by open a lock door in a small hole or doing a puzzle. 
 You can also use Black Hole where enimies can get sucked into oblivion. Fun thing about the gameplay 
 is you can eat people's hearts which is really fun to do. You can summon darkling which are those 
 crazy monster who will help you take enimies such as a berserker can get there hands on enimies 
 and use a chopper knife to kill them or a Gunner which can fire and long distance. But if your 
 useing dark powers you can only recharge in shadows or dark places, if your near a place that has 
 alot of lights you can't use your dark powers well.
  
  Graphics and Sound= I like how the game is setten out, set in a dark city and darkness on your 
 back, close to other first person shooter games like Resistence or Halo the graphics are not bad 
 looking for a PS3 game. Sounding very Mafia like if your into Mafia films like the Godfather you'll 
 hear alot of people's problems in the Underground station. There is some chees british acents when 
 your in the First World War when your back in time. The darklings have the best vocing thinking 
 of the movie Gremlins there speaking in random jibberish like "Lets go Shopping" or "Shad up" simply 
 funny.
  
  Overall= Not the best first person game but it has some moments you'll enjoy. I moslty enjoy eating 
 hearts, you can aslo get archivements by doing tasks, there is online multiplayer if your playing 
 online. But this game has a few problems mostly if your near the end of a hard level and you get 
 killed at the last mintue you would have to do that part again or unless your at a checkpoint. 
 You can easily find this game really cheap around 10-$10 in a bargin bucket at any shop you go 
 to but overall some of you may want to rent if you wan to get the game done quick, it can take 
 you up to 10-20 hours to beat but don't rush it has a good story and lots of blood. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sekiam
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 2, 2008 6:50 am PT
Review:  Based on the comics of the same name, The Darkness tells the story of young Jackie Estacado, an 
 orphan, who was "recruited" in his early years for the mob.
  Jackie has the gift of using The Darkness' power, and the curse of being restrained by it....
 
  The game has stunning graphics, greatly detailed too; addequate soundtrack and excellent voice-acting...... now 
 for the gameplay....
  Unlike most FPSs, in The Darkness, all your dual-wield weapons are controlled with your left and 
 right triggers respectively, shooting with only one is also possible. However, what really makes 
 The Darkness, the great game it is, is.... The Darkness! Two fiendish heads sprout from your back 
 with long tentacles and huge fangs, The Darkness makes you more resistant to gun-fire, allows you 
 to eat the hearts of deceased enemies (energy source) , use one of your "demon heads" to crawl to 
 unreachable spaces, create black holes to suck your enemies in, etc. You also have to ability to 
 spawn Darklings, minion-like devils each with its own characteristic, who will play an important 
 part in your adventure.
  I don't have much more to say except: Try it yourselves, I promise you, you won't be disappointed, 
 I, for one, consider The Darkness one of the best FPSs of all time, and if you play through it, 
 you will say the same!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deathstars412
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 10, 2008 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Graphics- could not get enough of how well and real they made this game look. For example when 
 you are dialing a phone number, it really shows him pressing the numbers exactly what numbers hes 
 picking to make the call.
  
  Sound- they footsteps sound so real, when you have surround sound in your room, you can hear it 
 so perfectly. The gun fireing sound just as real as any game should be.
  
  Storyline- Awesome, you play as a man named Jackie whos family is part of a mob and today is Jackies 
 birthday which his girlfriend prepared for him. Then Jackies uncle Paulie wants him back to be 
 his uncle again. But Jackie doesnt want to go back to him so uncle paulie gets pissed off and goes 
 crazy and sends his men to find him. Then somehow the darkness becomes a part of Jackie and he 
 gets amazing powers from the darkness. So Jackie kills Paulies men and then Paulie goes and kills 
 Jackies girlfriend and Jackie just becomes in rage, and thats how the Jackie will give uncle Paulie 
 a war.
  
  Gameplay- very cool like the darkness powers you can control the darkness to slither on the walls 
 and attack the mob by eating thiere hearts out. Also the dark arm that makes you grab your enemy 
 and throw them and you can even throw a anything at them from a bow to a car. You can summon darklings 
 that can attack, blow up, shoot and even electrocute them too.
  
  This game is just so good to play if your interested in alot of blood summoning some demons and 
 like being a gangster then this is your kind of game to play. And if you do play it then well YOU 
 ARE THE DARKNESS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: murano28
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 2:10 pm PT
Review:  I played the demo of this game and I was like what the hell is this? I thought I would never play 
 this game but I actually gave a chance and did play it, Im glad that I did. This game is a true 
 next gen console game. With it is graphics, gameplay and story, it is a great combination. The 
 storyline is very interesting and keeps you wanting to know what's going to happen. Players would 
 expect alot twists in this game. The graphics are amazing. The gameplay is good except the shooting 
 is not perfect. But you got something else to use you know what it is, a hearteating bastards lol. 
 This game is unique cause this experience is presented first time in the game history. And it is 
 actually very fun. The sound and the characters of the game is good. The game is not short so value 
 is good too. I expected more in the ending but you can't expect more and more. Plus there is also 
 online multiplayer, it is not that bad. So if you played the demo and you didn't like it like me 
 don't fool yourself. Try this game and you will be stuck in this adventure until the end.
  
  Gameplay: 9
  
  Graphics: 9.5
  
  Story: 9
  
  Sound: 9.5
  
  Value: 9
  
  Tilt 
 (fun) : 9
  
  
  Overall: 9.2
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: NC_Hitman
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 29, 2008 11:40 am PT
Review:  Darkness was the first game i played on my PS3 and it impressed me the whole way through. Good 
 story and fun gameplay. The story is easy to follow and get involved in even if your not a fan 
 of the comics, by the end though there is a good chance you will check em out. Your darkness powers 
 let you get through situations diffently so the game doesnt get bogged down with mundane gunning 
 or get repetative. The dark atmosphere is another turn on. The characters definatly fit in well 
 with it. Other than Jenny your friends and enemies are all pretty much all evil but hey its the 
 mob. On the bad side i thought the ancestor flashback levels were too drawn out and sometimes felt 
 unnavible. But maybe thats just because i wanted to continue to see what was happening in the present. 
 When you finally realize how to take in the Darkness its a pretty sweet experience. All in all 
 i really enjoyed The Darkness
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yojimbo25
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 20, 2008 8:15 pm PT
Review:  I played the Darkness on the 360, back when I still owned the system, and I loved it. It looked 
 amazing, played similar to Chronicles of Riddick of my favorite XBOX games. But on the PS3 however, 
 its the same but then again its not....
  
  Graphics
  The Darkness looked razor sharp on the 360, on the PS3 it doesn't. Both versions looks the same, 
 but the PS3 suffers from anti aliasing issues. The game has rough gritty textures, graphical glitches, 
 and a choppy framerate. The PS3 version looks like Riddick on the original XBOX, and I'm disappointed 
 because the full potential of the PS3 is not being used. Sigh..
  
  Audio
  On the sound side. Darkness features some great voice acting, a Starbreeze trademark it seems. 
 The Darkness its self is creepy sounding.
  
  Gameplay
  The game features the same white knuckle gameplay as Riddick did, minus the first person combat. 
 Alot of the same quirks are here as well. For instance the camera pans back to a third person view 
 climbing up ladders. The added Darkness powers give the main character a godlike apperance. The 
 mulitplayer is nothing to write home about. 
  
  Overall The Darkness on the PS3 is a great game, and at the budget price of 19.99 its good buy 
 for fans of Starbreeze's stellar Chronicles of Riddick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 13, 2008 1:57 am PT
Review:  When we first heard Starbreeze was hard at work on another dark, semi-free-roaming FPS with plenty 
 of gameplay diversity and a compelling storyline, we were very much intrigued. After all, this 
 is the same team that brought us the stellar Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from Butcher Bay back 
 in 2004, and we've all been wanting more ever since. Riddick combined elements from several genres, 
 including FPS, stealth/action, and even RPG, thereby providing a singular and engrossing experience. 
 And from what we'd heard regarding The Darkness, it sounded like they were following a similar 
 formula, although the concept itself was very different. Of course, given all this previous information, 
 the expectations for this one were quite high... but does this atmospheric and intense title translate 
 to Riddick-caliber goodness? We were just itching to find out.
  
  In terms of graphics, we see a great deal of detail and sharp clarity throughout, despite dealing 
 with a minimal color palette. Much of the game, as you might've guessed by the title, is shrouded 
 in heavy greys, browns, blues, and yeah, a lot of black. The most impressive aspect of the visuals 
 revolves around the character designs, intricate and subtle depiction of even the simplest of objects, 
 and the overall atmosphere. Easily the best part of the game is the presentation, and the graphics 
 go a long way towards fulfilling the developer's complete vision. Everything from the large amount 
 of graffiti in the city streets to the dankness of ancient sewers is nicely portrayed, and if you 
 have the capability of viewing this bad boy in 1080p resolution, well... you're in for a treat. 
 The only drawbacks center on the surprisingly frequent clipping issues that pop up here and there 
 (especially with your dark arm) , and lips not moving in unison with words. But other than that, 
 The Darkness looks great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JOTJ
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 3:56 am PT
Review:  This Game is Amazing no doubt about it but first ill start with the faults, Its too short i got 
 it at noon 1 day and completed it at 11:30 in the next morning.
  Thats it for the faults now onto the good stuff, This game has an amazing story which im not going 
 to give any great spoilers about but i found myself close to tears at some points and beaming with 
 joy at others. The story takes you with it, if something sad is happening in the game you feel 
 sad and vice versa.
  (Very mild spoiler warning) At one point in the game you go into hell and ive seen other games 
 portrayals of hell and they have nothing over this, You actually feel like you want to be out of 
 this place, and fast its horrible if hell does exist it is going to be a lot like the darkness' 
 portrayl.
  Another great thing about this game is the graphics they are stunning! you can see every brick 
 in every building the people graphics are sublime the graphics are really brilliant.
  The gameplay is also briliant with a load of grusome and terrible things you can do to people like 
 suck them up in a black hole or get a small deamon to jam a jackhammer in their face its up to 
 you, and its never boring thats for sure, its not a frustrating game if maybe a little to easy 
 at times but it is a great game.
  And i have not said about one truley amazing FPS rarity, your playing on the game and you look 
 down and whats this? FEET!!!! you can actually see your feet!
  I have not tried the multiplayer yet but this review is based on the singleplayer which deserves 
 9.5/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Linik0007
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 30, 2008 5:54 am PT
Review:  In this game you play as Jackie Estacodo, a hitman for his uncle paulie, at least until on his 
 21st birthday, he is granted evil snake things that are trying to take over his body and his uncle 
 wants him dead, Happy birthday Jackie!
  
  the game takes place in two diffrent areas, New york, and Hell, the hell area is like world war 
 two, and full of ghosts.
  
  the only real problem I had with this game was the fact that you had to turn out lights to keep 
 out the darkness, and, you are certainly going to need it, because without the darkness, you die 
 really really really quickly.
  
  The graphics and voice actors are absalutly amazing, at some points in the game, you achually feel 
 goose bumps from how realistic it is, this game is totally awesome.
  
  I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Linik0007 review I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I 
 I I I I I I I I I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dohboymaddness
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 7, 2008 8:32 am PT
Review:  I haven't read the Darkness in sometime. I used to collect the books back in the day (still have 
 the first issue) but when I fell out of American comics this series followed. When they announced 
 a game based on The Darkness I have to say I really had my doubts. Sometimes you have to give the 
 benefit of the doubt...
  
  The Good: The first great thing about the The Darkness game is the story. It is brilliant! It's 
 co-written by Paul Jenkins who also did a run on the comic (and he also wrote other comics like 
 The Hulk, Origin and did a excellent job on the game Twisted Metal Black) . His dialog is spot on, 
 although it can be considered mafia sterotype, I loved it from beginning to end. I hated and loved 
 the characters and I felt like I was actually playing a movie adaptation of the comic (which Top 
 Cow should consider) . The voice acting did a great job of bringing Jenkins script to life. The 
 characters were not to over the top and the "darkness" voice really set the mood. The music was 
 also very good, fitting the situations well. The graphics were excellent with plenty of detail 
 around every corner. The Darkness powers worked well and never got to boring to use.
  
  The Bad: Although I did like walking around the New York streets and alley ways I still felt that 
 the enviroments could have been more open. Not GTA "open" but a bit more places that you could 
 visit and explore. Which is funny because I still got lost once and awhile, sometimes not quite 
 sure of were my next objective was. The AI was a bit slow witted as well, sometimes they would 
 just stand in front of you waiting to get blasted. Although I understand that staying in the dark 
 is important to survival I did find it quite annoying having to destroy light after light to stay 
 in the shadows. The creeper power that you possess through the course of the game was a great idea 
 but once you start crawling on ceilings and walls things got frustrating. The Ugly: Eating hearts 
 was strangely amusing... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sean_Omac
Rating: 8
Date: May 3, 2008 4:49 pm PT
Review:  If you were a superhero, what super powers would you pick? The ability to call forth beasts from 
 the abyss? A snake arm that can eat the heart of your enemy? A lethal dark blade that can throw 
 bad guys flying across the room? No? Then stop reading now! All of these things are included in 
 "The Darkness".
  
  You play through The Darkness as Jackie, a mafia odd job man. Assassinations. Protection money 
 collection. General tough guy stuff. So its Jackie's birthday, a job has just gone south and you're 
 under some serious gunfire from some nasty looking builders. Then you find out your Uncle/Adopted 
 father/Mob boss has sent the cops and his own cronies after you because he's a bit screwy. Could 
 things get any worse? Yep! You get possessed by a demon! 
  
  This game could easily be called an average Shoot-'Em Up if it wasn't for the miriad of interesting 
 game mechanics that are on show. With the demon possession comes with it a host of super-powers, 
 such as "The Darkness Shield" which absorbs some of the damage done by bullets and the ability 
 to call little gremlin type creatures from a hole in the ground, which help you out with the enemies. 
 Another interesting twist is that if you want to upgrade your "Darkness Powers" you have to eat 
 the heart of your enemies after you have killed them. Skillz! But the best thing about this game 
 is the way you have to use the shadows and darkness to keep your super-powers. The Darkness powers 
 wont work in light for very long, so you have to retreat to a shadow to recharge. This makes gunfights 
 very tense, as you have to plan your tactics a little more than the "Point and Shoot" approach. 
 It adds new dimensions to the traditional shooter and makes it a more engrossing experience. 
 
  
  The graphics on this game are quite impressive in places with realistic lighting effects and the 
 character models are very detailed. The blood spatters are cool and the rag doll effect you get 
 after you have shot a mobsters head off is enjoyable to watch. The single player game is a good 
 length, with an engaging story line with plenty of twists, turns and unlockable powers which keep 
 you playing. There are shades of half-life thrown in to the mix on this game too as there are simple 
 but enjoyable puzzles to complete and apart from the occasional loading screen everything is in 
 1st person.
  
  The biggest drawback is the multi-player. The graphics suffer, so does the refresh rate and after 
 all the great things that you get in the single player, this is such a let down. This aside, The 
 Darkness is a well rounded, complete 1st Person Shoot-'Em Up with a good single player mode and 
 a must for any of the fans of the comic book series and I recommend to anyone who likes a good 
 FMS.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: RedneckGamer87
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 30, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: In this game called "The Darkness", you play a character named Jackie Estacado is a man 
 cursed with a birthright that emerges on his 21st birthday. This darkness power passes down from 
 generation to genertaion and it is this tentical monster thing with a head of each side of you, 
 which eats the hearts of fallen foes. Also as you progress in the game you get darkness powers 
 such as, one of the tentical heads being able to go in to small corners, creap on people and bite 
 them to death and also this tentical which you can use to lift things and to stab your enemies 
 with. But your powers only are strong when you are in the dark. To further complement your ability 
 to kill, you can summon four different Darklings (Berserker, Gunner, Kamikaze, and Lightkiller) . 
 These little gremlins are vulnerable to light, but can also be quite useful. So you start out in 
 this game in a car chase because you want out of the mob but Uncle Paulie is not pleased. So he 
 sends hitmen to go kill you. but it all failes. So you go about killing mobsters and destroying 
 your Uncle Paulie's trade deal and such. At one point your girlfrend gets kills and you end up 
 killing your self and you end up in hell in a WW1 setting which is weird, then you have to manage 
 to bring yourself back to life. So you end up doing some more messing up of Uncle Paulie's things 
 and eventually take revenge. 
  In addition to the single-player mode, there's an eight-player online mode that gives you the basic 
 first-person shooter modes, like deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag. You can do 
 some configuring from there, such as turning on one-hit kills.
  
  Graphics: The graphics in this game are amazing. Everything is well textured and colored in this 
 game which makes it looks quite real. Even the character models and there facial expressions are 
 really well done. Everything is smooth when something is moving, so if you like graphics and stuff 
 (though graphics is not everything in a game) you will be in for a treat. 
  
  Sound: I have to say that the sound is great. The voice overs are really well done and the sound 
 effects of gun shot and the soundtrack are really well done aswell. No complaints on how things 
 sound in this game.
  
  Value: Overall I am very satisfied with this game. It had a great mob story which made me want 
 to continue playing and there is tones of blood and violience which I like. The only thing that 
 stuck out to me was for a good part of the game, people seemed to be completly oblivious to your 
 darkness power when you had it activated. Should they not like run away in fear after the darkness 
 kills a few of there friends? But all in all this was quite an enjoyable game and I would recommend 
 this game for everybody. I give this game 8.7 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: londonrider
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 14, 2008 4:21 am PT
Review:  First of all, that's a different sort of game- it is not a pure shooter, because of the weapons 
 (Powers of The Darkness + all the usual stuff like shotguns, pistols and machine guns) . It has 
 RPG elements. Voice acting is terrific! - as well as animations (motion captured?)
  
  Let me put it straight- this game is difficult to describe. But one word would round it all- creativeness. 
 Even the side quests are really funny in a good way, not talking about the main storyline which 
 kept me glued to the game.
  
  I highly recommend this game for those who like "different shooters", good story, atmosphere and 
 some unexpected locations (like hell or haunted house)
  
  P. S. There's a comics book "The Darkness Ultimate Collection" that was released after the game. 
 I recommend this one as well :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x2926014
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:11 am PT
Review:  Ok so this game it's an addaptation of the comic book to the game and it's a pretty good addaptation 
 not like others (e. g: Superman returns) .
  So you wake up in the back of a car with two tipical Italian mobsters and then BUM! You crash and 
 one of your friend's die. So then you go to the cemitery and you get your darkness powers... The 
 darkness powers are like a venerial disease's come from the familly (correct me if i'm wrong) .
 
  Then you die 3 times and go back to the WWII and meet your  and 
 he's gonna tell you how much he messed up!
  This game it's pretty good actually. It's the best addaptation that i've ever played in my life. The 
 graphic's are awesome you can see the ribs when you take the heart's. The jogabillity it's kinda 
 difficult... Not very difficult... Mildly difficult.... The WWII parts can be a pain in the ass but 
 you'll envetually get it right...
  So this was my review on the darkness.
  
  by: joaosimpson 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gtarmanrob
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2008 10:42 pm PT
Review:  Most games based off comic book characters and stories always seem really lame, something only 
 a die-hard fan of the particular series could appreciate.
  
  The Darkness, however, is something else. Its atmospheric, it's gruesome and it's pretty much awesome. 
 The graphics are top notch for the PS3, and the game runs a native 1080p, providing some amazing 
 visuals and textures.
  
  The story was I felt very well told and really immersed players in the whole experience. You take 
 on the role of Jackie Estacado, a bad-arse (ex) hitman for your Uncle Paulie. The game offers a 
 very clever mix of mafia/mobster gameplay, demonic substance and pure action/FPS gameplay.
  
  The gameplay itself was clever and intuative, the game offering several different kinds of 
 firearms, along with the oh-so-awesome Darkness powers. The conventional weaponry, ranging from 
 dual pistols to automatic rifles and shotguns. While some stated they were useless, I felt in a 
 way, they were quite necessary. A game like this, you don't wanna have to rely on superpowers to 
 do everything, and not relying on those powers allows the character, and the player, to retain 
 a part of their humanity. Conventional weapons were also a necessity when going for achievements 
 like 'Ripper', where you must use your Demon Arm to get 30 kills. Players of this game will know, 
 the Demon Arm does have the knack of sometimes snagging dead bodies and furniture as opposed to 
 the initial threat, and without a weapon in your hand, you die quite easily. My only gripe with 
 the gunplay, is the aiming mechanism. It does feel kind of smooth at first; Jackie will pull his 
 hands up to his chest if pressed against a wall, and the whole swaying/bobbing thing as you walk 
 was good, but the game was not very forgiving in terms of 'over steering' or over aiming, and for 
 console FPS novices like myself, once a target was overshot it was hard to get back onto him without 
 the auto aim, especially when you're being pumped with bullets.
  
  The Darkness powers are what it's all about. I won't go into details as to what the Darkness is, 
 so I don't spoil anything for anyone, but you're given 4 powers in total, each one unlocked through 
 the devouring of human hearts. All 4 prove highly useful, Creeping Dark for scoping out an area 
 and killing off enemies stealthily, Demon Arm for ultimate domination of enemies, the Darkness 
 Guns are good for saving ammo, and Black Hole is just plain awesome, as you will see for yourselves. 
 The thing I loved most about the Darkness powers, is that the player cannot just abuse them. They 
 create a hugely unfair advantage over your opponents, and are the reason why some say the conventional 
 weapons are useless. What the game has employed to counter this is, the Darkness only works.. in 
 the dark. You must initiate its power from the shadows as the light harms the darkness and reduces 
 your darkness power level. If that level is too low, you cannot summon the Darkness, and you are 
 at your most vulnerable, as poor Jackie Estacado is quite realistic, in the sense he can't take 
 many bullets before dying. Summoning the Darkness provides players with a demonic shield of sorts, 
 which can take more damage, but not excessive damage. Sorry run-and-gun fans, no Rambo-styling 
 in this game.
  
  The soundtrack for this game is sensational, the songs playing out the perfect mood and ambience 
 for each scene. And nothing gets you ready for a fight more than hearing a heavy metal tune playing 
 on the TVs you walk by. The musical score for the entire game was ingenious and played out so naturally 
 from scene to scene, it was almost at a cinematic standard. This game had one of the best atmospheres 
 I've seen, and totally fit in with the story.
  
  All up I have to say I was extremely impressed with The Darkness, its an older PS3 game, released 
 in 2007 but still holds its ground, in my books, as one of the greats. I highly recommend anyone 
 who owns a PS3 try this game, think of it as a mash between the Christian Slater movie Mobsters, 
 and comic book based movie The Punisher. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagicPhil
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 16, 2008 5:17 am PT
Review:  Overall, I found this a quite interesting game, mostly a FPS but with a nice bunch of twists and 
 original extra's. The music is great, the extra abilities of the Darkness are awesome and very 
 original and the story is quite original and really owns you.
  
  Also, the complete atmosphere of the game, certainly when sitting in a dark room, playing this 
 game late in the evening, is great. You really feel yourself fighting mobsters and crooks and visiting 
 weird places.
  
  Some minor points to be improved:
  - AI of the bad guys is not too smart
  - the best gun is the pistol you get in the beginning, 
 a bit strange
  - it's to not too difficult, all though you spend more than enough hours playing it (but I am not 
 the best gamer, so ...)
  - aiming on enemies is going a bit too smooth and easy.
  - mind the rating, it's really not for kids, they won't sleep for some time...
  
  As a conclusion, 
 a great singe player game, once you start, difficult to stop with enough original items to continue 
 enjoying it. It's the first game I completely played out on my PS3!!!
  
  If you find one, buy it and enjoy it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 11:31 am PT
Review:  You will find loads of stuff in Darness, not only its a good FPS, but a very good comic book (of cours 
 if you read them)
  
  
  The Gameplay is very fast paced when it comes to gunplay, and very slow with just about everything 
 else. The game may have you talking to one of many NPCs (Using the great voice acting) when a firefight 
 just happens. You're going to be killing ALOT of mobsters. You get a lot weapons, none of which 
 you really carry. See, the weapons are kind of like throw-away. Use it, toss it, and get another. 
 In the darkness, this works great and makes gun fights breath taking and vicious. If you run up 
 to a thug with say a pistol or magnum, you'll perform some sort of wicked execution style move, 
 and THAT'S awesome. You also have these two demons know as the Darklings, and they also have a 
 knack for slaying mobsters.
  
  So as you can tell, this game revolves a lot around killing'. However, the game has plenty of heart. 
 Story is something I was worried about, but in the end this game turned out to be pretty interesting. 
 You play as some mob lords kid, Jackie and you end up getting screwed, and possessed too. Indeed 
 it sounds odd, but ultimately its pretty cool, and the ending is one for the books. 
  
  I'd recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Krepency
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 27, 2008 1:17 am PT
Review:  In my opinion many people completely underappreciated this game. Where the gameplay and multiplayer 
 lacked the story definitely made up for it.
  
  Story: The story for this game drags you in from start to finish. The story is told and executed 
 wonderfully throughout the game and the comic books that the game is based off of are amazing. 
 Story gets a 9.5 out of 10 in my book. One of the greatest stories in a game for awhile. Story 
 = Epic!
  
  Sound: Voice acting is done beautifully in this game and is another element that coaxes you in 
 the this amazing story.
  
  Gameplay: Controls are good. Aiming is a little weird but nothing to make the game significantly 
 less enjoyable. 
  
  Multiplayer: If you ignore the multiplayer, this game is beautiful. The multiplayer lacks quite 
 alot but this game wasn; t made for multiplayer. It was made to tell a great story and that is exactly 
 what it did.
  
  Rent it, but make sure you finish the story mode before returning. I promise that you won't be 
 dissapointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Heavy1337
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 23, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  This game is great, from eating peoples hearts to throwing zombies around like ragdolls. For me 
 the campaign was kinda short but I had been through quite a bit. The gunfights and gore of it all 
 was fantastic! Throwing stuff at people was tricky but awesome once you got used to it. The boss 
 fights weren't that fun but the story was well put together, I think a movie should be made for 
 this game. The characters were well fit in and the voice acting was great. One of the downsides 
 was the aiming but that wasn't really an issue. I didn't get to try multiplayer because of my wireless 
 but from what I heard it's terrible anyway, but im not rating this because of multiplayer because 
 that shouldn't count for people who don't even play multiplayer. I loved this game and for all 
 of those reasons such as story, fighting, characters, guns (lots of them too) , gore and much much 
 more I give this game a 9.5. I recommend this game for people who like guns, great voice acting 
 and lots of evil attacks on mafia hitman and undead world war 1 vets! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fat_Boy_PT
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 15, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game with a good atmosphere, accomplished moments of tension and creepiness and 
 a few problems. 
  First of all, there are a lot of loading times. You have to take the subway to go to the different 
 locations, to do the missions and every time there's a loading screen. The developer tried to mask 
 this by putting in little monologues by Jackie Estacado, the main character, to advance the story 
 but all these loads get old really fast. 
  Another problem is the fact that Jackie can't run. This is very annoying, not only during the combat 
 sequences but also as you walk through the streets, slowly, just to get to your destination. There's 
 also no map. You have to watch the street signs and try to find the way. At the start of the game 
 this is very disorienting. 
  The game is in essence a FPS with a revenge story. Jackie Estacado is a hitman for his uncle, a 
 Mafia boss. On his 21st birthday Jackie not only finds out his uncle Paulie wants him dead, he 
 also gets a visit from the darkness, a demon of sorts, who's origin is never really explained, 
 that needs a host and has haunted the Estacado family for generations. The darkness gives Jackie 
 some powers, like a demon arm which can impale enemies or pick up cars and throw them, two darkness 
 guns, a black hole which sucks enemies into hell and "creeping dark". Creeping Dark sends one of 
 the snakes that accompany you through the game, slithering away to do stealth kills, open doors, 
 go through small openings, etc. Some of these powers are useful, some aren't. Creeping Dark is 
 hard to control as is the demon arm. The Darkness guns are ok but not very powerful and you never 
 lack ammo for the other weapons, so not much use for them. The black hole is the biggest power 
 and is so strong it almost feels like a cheat at times. All these powers feed on the dark which 
 brings us to another problem. You have to shoot out all the lights in the game. For a game called 
 The Darkness, there's a lot of light, everywhere and you'll spend a lot of time just shooting it, 
 again and again to be able to use your powers. Very dull. You could use a light killer darkling 
 to do it but his AI is simply awful. Darklings are little creatures you can summon to kill enemies 
 with guns or bombs or many other ways but their AI is so bad they're also close to useless. Jackie 
 is also surprisingly weak. The beginning is the hardest part of the whole game. You don't have 
 any powers yet and Jackie dies with two or three shots. Very frustrating. The weapons, all of them, 
 also feel very weak. You don't get any thrill with shooting them, they just don't feel powerful. 
 
  The game does have some very entertaining moments. Two chapters are spent in a place resembling 
 hell, where you fight zombie Nazis and it's creepy and exciting. The story is well written and 
 the voice acting is superb. There's plenty of violence and mayhem. To make your powers stronger 
 you order one of those snakes to eat the hearts of the dead enemies and it's cool and disturbing 
 at the same time. There's something you don't see everyday. There are also execution moves, when 
 you get close to an enemy. Jackie among other executions can for example shoot him right in the 
 face and blow his head off. It's just nasty and very cool too. A shame you can't do it often because 
 Jackie yeah he dies easily. 
  Even so, the game is not hard and you won't have a hard time going through it. I took about 8 hours 
 to unlock most things and finish it on normal. The multiplayer is dead so single player is all 
 you get. 
  The Darkness is fun. The open world experience fails, there's no cars, almost no people on the 
 street and a map is sorely missing but the graphics are very good and everything is seedy and or 
 macabre. The atmosphere is perfect. There's always a feeling of unease and creepiness. The gore 
 and carnage is amazing. 
  Still, I get the idea that with a little more work and some tweaks this could have been an amazing 
 game. This way, it's a good game which fans of the genre shouldn't miss. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordMaceX
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  You are Jackie Estacado, a hit man for the mob in New York City. You awaken laying in a car in 
 a high speed chase apparently someone had knocked you out and now they were chasing you. As you 
 drive away unknown of what has happened you try to shoot down all the fools trying to kill you 
 eventually leading to a crash where your partners are both severely injured or dead. As you play 
 you constantly have a voice talking to you in your head telling you to kill and murder all who 
 oppose you. Although you have heard this voice your whole life now it seems to be growing and talking 
 more and more often. You continue your escape and sneak out of the area infested with your enemies 
 but eventually find yourself in a graveyard.
  
  The mobsters you work for appear which are controlled by your uncle Paulie who has a terrible temper 
 and has never liked Jackie much. Suddenly the mobsters start shooting at you trying to kill you, 
 without knowing why Paulie is trying to kill you the confusion sets in but you decide to continue 
 on fighting through all the mobsters he has sent at you. You now realize that you have powers that 
 normal people don't there is a dark force within you which you can tap into giving you the power 
 to control the darkness summoning demon helpers or impaling tentacles. You begin to realize that 
 your uncle Paulie just wants you dead and out of the picture, with your new found powers you decide 
 to try to take him down for trying to kill you and so your struggle with the mob begins.
  
  The storyline of The Darkness is somewhat lame at times where you can see what will happen forward 
 in the storyline very easily. Yet the twist of The Darkness adds a nice change to the storyline 
 instead of it just being a lame battle between a hit man and a mob boss. The gun selection in The 
 Darkness was kind of lame in my opinion I didn't really much of the weapons I either used the assault 
 rifle or I used my pistols although I also occasionally one of the shotguns. Most of the weapons 
 are very similar like the AK47 and the M16 which are both almost exactly the same weapons I didn't 
 see the point.
  
  Although weapon selection might be limited you also can wield The Darkness. With this power you 
 can impale people on tentacles, assassinate people by sneaking around with a tentacle, create gravity 
 distortions that suck in nearby enemy units, summons demons to help you, and you can even dual 
 wield a pair of Darkness guns which are powered by The Darkness itself. Graphically The Darkness 
 looks great the use of lighting and the importance of it makes for a great theme where shadows, 
 lighting, and darkness come into play a lot. This allows for them to show off making the game look 
 fantastic in almost every stand point. The darkness powers also look very fluent and very cool 
 which might not be that important but looking cool can make people buy games none the less.
  
  One thing I noticed while I played through The Darkness is how terrible the AI was at many 
 times the enemies would just run around randomly for no reason. They depended a lot more on assaulting 
 you with tons of guys and bombarding you with bullets instead of using any sort of strategy to 
 flank you or outwit you even though they had the number advantage by far. The smartest thing I 
 ever saw any of the enemies do was aim the gun around a corner and shoot wildly, which for some 
 reason had great precision even though they couldn't see. The gameplay of the game left many loop 
 holes in my opinion but it was very fun to run around using your super cool Darkness powers to 
 kill tons of people. It is a lot of fun to just run around and kill people with your powers but 
 there isn't any specific gameplay most of the time you are just running around killing wildly without 
 reason.
  
  Although it was a fun game and I enjoyed it I didn't think this title was nearly as good as many 
 people have told me that it was. Despite the fact that I believe the game was overrated I still 
 think this game is worth playing but I think it is definatly a rental kind of game. Although you 
 might have a lot of fun playing it after you beat the game in around 6-10 hours dependent on what 
 you do in the game. I would rate The Darkness a 7.8 out of 10 for being a entertaining FPS without 
 good multiplayer, to be a very successful FPS without being centered around multiplayer in this 
 day and age takes an amazing game and this doesn't quite make it. Although I wouldn't say it is 
 worth buying if you think you can beat it in one rental I would say try it out for yourself and 
 see if you like it.
  
  This review will show up as a 8.0 due to Gamespot unfortunately not allowing a 7.8 to be selected. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CureTheWorld666
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 5:11 pm PT
Review:  On the outside, you are Jackie Estacado. You're a hitman for your Uncle Paulie, Don of the Franchetti 
 Crime Family. On the inside creeps a power so overwhelming it consumes all who uses it. You are 
 The Darkness, a symbiotic entity that spans the generations between Creation and Damnation, cruel, 
 sadistic, and powerful up the ying-yang. Bad combination. On your 21st birthday The Darkness manifests 
 itself in you and in the same day your soulmate is taken from you, by none other than your Uncle 
 Paulie. Paulie has become a paranoid delusional maniac with too much power. So you go a on a vengeance 
 spree. 
  
  Amazing story right? Welcome to the wonderfully twisted mind of Garth Ennis, one of the best writers 
 barely anyone knows about. The Darkness was originally a comic book in the 90s, one of the ever-so-frequent 
 antiheroes like Painkiller Jane, HellStorm and Ghost Rider. What sets The Darkness apart is this. 
 Coolness factor. There is just something incredibly endearing about someone's entire skeleton getting 
 ripped out their nose like in one of the first 13 issues of The Darkness (can't remember which) . 
 Sadly this ability is left out of the game, although you can impale, throw, shoot and generally 
 goreify anyone else you please.
  
  One of the things that set this game apart from other FPS games is the Darkness Powers. These consist 
 of a very demonized snake-head-thing called the Creeping Dark that crawls along the floor and up 
 the walls to reach tight areas and other things (no spoiler for you!) , a long, strong, sharp, and 
 bloody tentacle called the Demon Arm (I prefer to call it Dark Tendril) , a pair of guns that feed 
 off The Darkness' energy as ammo, and a black hole. You can also summon sadistic little abominations 
 called Darklings, which can be very crucial to completing the game. They enjoy pissing on your 
 enemies' corpses. Very cool.
  
  The environments in the game are to die for. If ever you wanted New York subway station atmosphere 
 on DVD, buy The Darkness. Everything but the smell is on this game. But if you overheat your car 
 and pee on the motor you can get the smell too! Every subway station is equipped with a liberal 
 mixture of phones (which can be used. I once dialled my number and my phone rang, creeping me right 
 out. then someone answered it and it was the tax man. Just as scary.) Customer service booths (telling 
 you where everything in the game is.) signs leading you in the right direction, and assorted graffiti. 
 Fulton St. has a group of b-boys complete with blasting crap music, and Canal St. has a raving 
 nutter. Or he could be a psychic telling us the story of the hopefully upcoming The Darkness sequel 
 that's rumoured. Your choice. Dispersed around each of the two stations are people in need of help 
 and you can help them for collectable goodies. The rest of the game is just as good if not better. 
 Each part of the game's overall map is beautifully, almost lovingly rendered complete with lights 
 that can be shot out (so you can then walk where the light shone without losing darkness energy) , 
 cars that can be lifted and thrown with the Demon Arm, and endless other cool bits of wow. But 
 enough about the environment. The Review must go on!
  
  The soundtrack is just as exquisite as the environments, fitting whatever is going on at that moment 
 like a charm. At one point I was in the middle of a gunfight and I was in a sort of calm zone and 
 I paused and I just listened to the combat music and before I knew it I was dancing. The combat 
 music for The Darkness is by far the best soundtrack for a game ever. The calm music flows seamlessly 
 into a wonderful mix of creepy choir, hellraising horns and gory guitar whenever a shot is fired. 
 No matter what situation you're in, from fighting for your lives to visiting your Aunt Sarah, The 
 Darkness rises to the occasion with a song for every mood.
  
  The gameplay is just as good. You have two guns. Right gun-right trigger button (R2) , and vice versa. 
 In addition you have your Darkness Powers on the R1 button, and The Darkness itself on L1. Move 
 with the left analog stick, aim with the right. Pretty standard. Nothing special. Which is actually 
 really good because it means you can carry experience from other games with a similar control scheme 
 from there to here. StarBreeze Studios thinks of everything. This game will definitely put StarBreeze 
 on the map.
  
  Now for the bad. It's negligible, but it's there. They didn't stick to the original storyline. 
 In the original comic The Darkness looked so much cooler then it did in the game. (Go to this address 
 for an image http://www. comicrelated. com/icon/darkness. jpg) and also, in the original game there 
 was a character called the Angelus, sort of the anti-Darkness. She may of just been paper but she 
 was beautiful (here's an image http://upload. wikimedia. org/wikipedia/en/thumb/0/02/Angelus3. jpg/200px-Angelus3. jpg 
 ) . I was so sad they cut her out.
  
  All in all, a must have for ps3. a trophy of what a skilled designer can do with a little time 
 and a lot of effort. If you don't have it, buy it. If you have it, keep it. it will be remembered 
 as an underappreciated wonder for years to come.
  
  Peace Out
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmedo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 5:08 am PT
Review:  Now i've never read the comics, so i bought The Darkness because it looked cool. And i was right, 
 the game is really cool, and also pretty different from other FPS games. What sets it apart, is 
 the settings, the story and of course the massive appendages coming out of the protagonist's body. 
 The story is about Jackie Estacado, a mafia hitman, who is in the process of being rubbed out. 
 The game is set in modern times, and in modern America. What makes the game good is it does have 
 some subtle RPG elements to eat, such as the more hearts you eat leads to 'the darkness' leveling 
 up, giving you new abilities. The menus in the game however, are the opposite from the gameplay. 
 They are hard to use and navigate, and unless you have a HDTV, chances are you won't be able to 
 read or use the map, or anything else really in the menu. Sometimes the gameplay gets confusing, 
 such as not much explanation on what to do, where to go etc. although its usually straight forward, 
 sometimes it can annoy you, and with the lack of a HUD, makes it even worse sometimes. Luckily, 
 the game is left open for a possible sequel, and with online play the fun continues (although anybody 
 is rarely on the online servers) . So if you like FPS and dark, gruesome, gory, compelling and fun, 
 then pick up The Darkness. I paid $63 for it, and although i beat it in around a week, it was still 
 worth the experience. Go for it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: analgrin
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 18, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  I've recently got myself a ps3 and having got bored of the couple of games that came with it i 
 thought i'd rent myself a game for the weekend.
  I chose the darkness because im a fan of dark creepy games/films and im rather partial to a bit 
 of gore. So with what little i knew about this game i thought it may just entertain me for the 
 weekend.
  
  After firing the game up i was initially pleased to see that the graphics are very nice and the 
 overall production of the game is very pleasing and complete.
  
  Im sure you know that in this game you play as 'Jackie' a man who works for the mob as a ruthless 
 killer.
  Its your 21st birthday and all is going well until while on a hit job, for your uncle paulie, you 
 discover a tv playing a taped message from your uncle. He's obviously taken a disliking to you 
 for one reason or another and tells you to look in the nearby closet for you birthday present.
 
  
  On doing so you discover a bomb that is about to go off, as you run away it goes off blasting you 
 out of a window and you just about survive.
  
  You decide to take vengance on your uncle and it just so happens that at this point your suddenly 
 possessed by some kind of demon. You now have two large tenticles spawning from you shoulders that 
 bare razor sharp teeth and have a craving for fresh hearts that you can rip directly from the chest 
 of your fallen foes with great satisfaction,. It should be noted that you can at anytime decide 
 to switch to a normal human appearance which is good as people tend to be a little freaked out 
 by your demonic appearance. Switching back to demon form is just as easy as long as your in the 
 shadows (the inner demon doesn like the light) but this isn't a problem as you can smash, shoot 
 or simply switch off virtually all the lights in game
  
  The game is set in new york city and you are pretty much free to roam as you please, you can even 
 use the subway and hop on a train back and forth between the 2 main areas you'll be visiting.
 
  
  You can talk with pretty much all the NPC's wandering around although most of them will just say 
 'hey, whats up' or something similar but some will offer you a side mission to carry out if you 
 wish and others may offer advice or give a clue about a mission you are currently on.
  
  The missions you get are all pretty much in the same vain. Go here kills these people find out 
 some information then return. Your demonic powers make killing people satifying and actually a 
 little too easy but for me i didn't mind as i enjoy being a double hard b'stard!!!
  
  This game is great for sucking you in and making you feel that you are actually ''Jackie" i love 
 the way that people react to your appearance. For instance you may enter a room full of goons trying 
 to take you out. On seeing you they might cry out 'there he is, kill him' then you decide to let 
 your inner demon surface and the formentioned tenticles will sprout from your body and your eyes 
 will glow. When the goons see this they will react by saying something along the lines of 'Holy 
 sh*t did you see that? what is that thing' this will be their last words as you start shooting 
 your way through them and you may feel like skewering one of them on the end of your tenticles 
 and swing them around for a bit before throwing him to the ground. Or you may use your special 
 powers such as opening a black hole which causes anything or anyone nearby to be swirled around 
 in the air as if stuck in a tornedo.
  
  I've nearly completed the game and have thoroughly enjoyed the story so far. Some parts are shocking 
 and unexpected. Others are grusome and there's one part which i found very disturbing and i nearly 
 had to look away from the screen. This is the first time any game has caused me to do this, i was 
 even screaming at the screen 'NO NO NO dont dont dont!!!' I'm sure if you play this then you'll 
 know what part i mean. If you've seen the film hostel then this is something that could have been 
 in it (maybe its in hostel 2 which i haven't seen) . The game has many hidden extras many of which 
 can be unlocked by finding phone numbers which you can actually dial on the ingame phones. You 
 will hear a mildy amusing answerphone message followed by a onscreen confirming you've unlocked 
 an extra found in the main menu.
  
  Another little easter egg this game features are televisions, you can go upto a tv and change channel 
 and sit and watch to your hearts content. There's a couple of full length feature films, a couple 
 of music channels and a couple of cartoon channels so i reckon there's at least 4 hours of real 
 tv to watch if you so wish.
  
  Wow i didn't mean this review to go on for this long so im gonna cut it short here. Basically its 
 a great game with good acting through out, and a special congrats goes to the voice acting of your 
 inner demon. Its a great deep dark croaky voice that really adds to the dark feel of the game.
 
  
  This game rocks!!! Buy it!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopy248
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  When I first sat down to play the Darkness I had mixed feelings. But after the first 30 minutes 
 or so players can really see the greatness of this game.
  
  Story: You play a man known as "Jackie Estacado" who was abandoned as a kid and picked up from 
 the orphanage by the top-dog mafia leader, "Uncle Paulie", who only adopted Jackie because he needed 
 another hand in the "business". The problem is Uncle Paulie is done with Jackie and tries to eliminate 
 him asap. This poses a problem to Jackie because of how corrupt the mafia family has become due 
 to Uncle Paulie's reign. Another problem the arises is this "problem" known as The Darkness. The 
 Darkness starts spreading through Jackie giving him strong powers the including controlling darklings, 
 picking up cars and other objects, and eating the hearts of enemies. As The Darkness spreads, Jackie 
 quickly tries to find a way to counter its effects and stop the spreading. I will say no more so 
 I won't spoil it but prepare yourself for an amazing story. :D
  
  Gameplay: I'll admit when you first start the game you will feel the controls to be clunky. But 
 after about an hour or so you feel the controls becoming easier to use. You have the choice between 
 5 or so weapons (which you get a different points in the game) and The Darkness power (which you 
 will also acquire new abilities throughout the game) . When you combine these forces you will become 
 an unstoppable force!
  
  Graphics: The graphics are very stunning. The character models are very well done and the environment 
 is always in darkness to help the mood and feeling of the game.
  
  Sound: The sound goes through a great assortment of songs from the smooth songs of the subway to 
 the fast paced songs that begin when you start a battle. The voice acting is astounding, easily 
 one of the best thus far.
  
  Extras: This game has a variety of extras throughout the game that you can collect. These little 
 collectibles allow you to watch footage from the directors, see extra scripts from the game, and 
 etc.
  
  Overall this was an excellent game to play and I encourage everyone with the ability to play it... play 
 it! :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DoctorBadass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 7, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Starbreeze are responsible for the 2004 hit, The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape from butcher bay, 
 which in short, was amazing and unlike anything we had seen at the time. Well, Starbreeze has sort 
 of dropped of the radar until last year, when The Darkness was previewed for the very first time. 
 The idea of a mobster gangland setting blended in with an evil demonic underworld sounds fantastic, 
 and in the end, is indeed, amazing.
  
  The Gameplay is very fast paced when it comes to gunplay, and very slow with just about everything 
 else. The game may have you talking to one of many NPCs (Using the great voice acting) when a firefight 
 just happens. You're going to be killing ALOT of mobsters. You get a lot weapons, none of which 
 you really carry. See, the weapons are kind of like throw-away. Use it, toss it, and get another. 
 In the darkness, this works great and makes gun fights breath taking and vicious. If you run up 
 to a thug with say a pistol or magnum, you'll perform some sort of wicked execution style move, 
 and THAT'S awesome. You also have these two demons know as the Darklings, and they also have a 
 knack for slaying mobsters.
  
  So as you can tell, this game revolves a lot around killing'. However, the game has plenty of heart. 
 Story is something I was worried about, but in the end this game turned out to be pretty interesting. 
 You play as some mob lords kid, Jackie and you end up getting screwed, and possessed too. Indeed 
 it sounds odd, but ultimately its pretty cool, and the ending is one for the books. 
  
  I'd recommend this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CQuark
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 2, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a first person shooter for ps3 and xbox 360, the game has a wide variety of guns 
 and powers. It`s fun fighting gangsters and cops blowing their heads off with the magnum is one 
 of my favourite things to do. But this i`snt just a regular first person shooter the darkness offers 
 dark hellish powers for you to use, so wether you like fighting with magnums and AKs or tearing 
 peoples bodies to shreads with demonic abilities, this game will more than suit first person shooter 
 players or horror game players. The game also has a lot of side missions that will keep you busy 
 for a good long while so even though the main mission is very short and you will probably finish 
 it in no more than a few days, you can have some extra fun. Another main factor of the darkness 
 is the fact that anywhere you find a tv you can watch an entire movie from where you stand. As 
 well as that you get the ability to summons creatures known as darklings, which are gremlin like 
 creatures that fight to defend you. Offerall the darkness is great fun and very addictive you will 
 always want to play it over and over again.
  
  By CQuark 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  DaRkness is a action and 1st person shooter game. It is very fun, the Story itself is quite good 
 , but u wouldnt care much a bout it caus u just wanna devour someones heart and kill someone.
 
  
  Darkness is 1st person shooter and also som action too. The great thing about it is Jacks power 
 why need any combos if u can devour our peoples hearts, Eat their faces and Shoot their under the 
 belt and faces.
  
  Though the game might be great its very easy. U can eat other peoples heart and gain healph which 
 makes the game very easy. Oh and also u shoot them in the heads they die hard. The game last long
 
  
  It might be fps but its still fun, killing someone and shooting guys in there heads is always. The 
 game is all dark and spooky which fits it prefectly for this game
  
  Overal Its a great game dispite how easy it is Its still a very Nice game. How wiierd Darkness Shines 
 a bright light 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is what you called a black sheep of ps3 dark and gritty just the way i like it. It's 
 a choice rpg 1st person shooter where your a guy called Jacky Bryant a guy who just turned 21 and 
 he's a maphia assassain who got betrayed by his boss/uncle who brought him up after his parents 
 died. I don't want to ruin it too much so choose good (Jacky) and don't use the darkness or use 
 the darkeness and be make the earth consumed in never ending darkeness. I choose good i like the 
 game in gameplay it's smart how you can't take unlimted bullets like on halo but the frequent swearing 
 is quite bad. The sound is ok but there are annoying screaming in the game time after time. It's 
 story is very good i like the story heaps get it and you'll be like a kid on Christmas Eve. The 
 graphics are awesome that why my profile picture is what it is. Sum up Great!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 13, 2008 9:55 pm PT
Review:  Well, I picked up this game used at Gamestop. I had store credit, so I only paid .35 cents for 
 the game. I always wanted to play this game when it first came to Xbox 360/PS3, so now was my chance 
 to play this game.
  
  Graphics: I must say that they were done very well, I like Jackie alot in this game and he was 
 a great person to play with. Everything was sharp and crisp that I couldn't complain about, Very 
 good job.
  
  Sound: Guns, Demons, and more Guns. The sound was pretty kick @$$, If you have surround sound, 
 It will get you a plus because you could hear it loud and clear.
  
  Gameplay: This was probably the best thing, I thought the story was very well done. It kept me 
 going back for more and more, I was hooked right when I turned on the game.
  
  Overall: I don't see no reply action on this, unless you want to random kill people or play it 
 with friends, but at 25 dollars it was worth every penny.
  
  Enjoy everyone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 11, 2008 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness for the PS3
  
  Good- Very interesting Storyline, Controls are smooth, Likable characters
  
  Bad- The game 
 play isn't as sharp as other shooters 
  
  Gameplay 8/10
  Graphics 8/10
  Sound 9/10
  Storyline 10/10
  Extra's and Replay Value 9/10
  
  The Darkness has you fighting against the 
 Mob who are trying to kill you for whatever reason other then your uncle hates you and you get 
 consumed by the darkness. The game has you talking to tons of people and really interacting with 
 the characters, something alot of shooters skip these days. This game offers storyline over gameplay, 
 as the gameplay is not as sharp as other shooters. Not sayings its bad, as its not, but its just 
 not as sharp if you get my drift. Also you get darkness powers to kill your enemies from evil creatures 
 eating hearts to black holes! The game has almost top notch in graphics, with a wide city to show 
 off, with a sub way to travel from and such. Most of the areas and enemies look the same, but there 
 are the main event area's which are different, and give off this creepy darkness feeling which 
 brings you more into what you have become with this creature taking over your mind. All the extra's 
 are just that, nothing special but odd phone calls that unlock bonus material and a few extra missions. 
 This game is a nice change from your normal shooter and I found it really fun to play for the 2 
 days it lasted, but as most shooters it was just to short. I expect a sequel to this game from 
 the ending, so theres no better start then to play this one and hope for the next game to be a 
 bit better.
  
  Total for 87/100 for 9.0 Gamespot Rating 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raza3
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 11, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  he Darkness is a first-person shooter, with the player controlling Jackie Estacado. The game includes 
 a range of modern weapons that become available over the course of the game. However, due to Estacado 
 turning 21 at the very start of the game, the powers of The Darkness become available to the player 
 to kill foes, with some powers not being unlocked until later in the game. The Darkness powers 
 include summoning different types of imp-like "Darklings" that can attack foes; using "Dark Tentacles" 
 to impale foes or break downs walls; using "Creeping Dark" tendrils that sneak along floors, walls, 
 and ceilings to take out foes from a distances; and creating a "Black Hole" that sucks anything 
 nearby into it. Estacado also will come into possession of the "Darkness Guns" that are more powerful 
 than the conventional weapons but consume the Darkness power to fire. These Darkness powers cannot 
 be used when Estacado is in a well-lit area, but do become more powerful in darker conditions; 
 the player is able to shoot out lights to help increase the amount of dark energy available for 
 their attacks. Additionally, by ordering The Darkness to consume the hearts of the victims of the 
 attacks, the player can further increase the effects of the Darkness powers.
  
  The game has several levels based on New York City locales that the player will visit multiple 
 times. A significantly-reduced subway system allows the player to move between levels. While the 
 main plot is primarily linear, requiring the player to visit each level in a certain order, the 
 player can gain side missions from talking with non-player characters that wander the subway stations. 
 For example, one such mission is to win a rigged shell game being run in the subway after getting 
 a tip from another character. Completing submissions earns the player a "Collectible" phone number 
 which can then be used at any phone to unlock additional game media; Collectibles can also be found 
 scattered throughout the level. The Otherworld levels feature Collectibles in the form of unposted 
 postal mail that the player can deliver when back in New York City to unlock the content.
  
  [edit] Plot
  
  The player takes the role of Jackie Estacado, with the story presented as 
 a future-narrative on the present events observed by the player. On the eve of his 21st birthday, 
 Jackie was targeted for assassination by the don of the New York mafia, "Uncle" Paulie. He finds 
 his body possessed by "the Darkness", a malevolent spirit that has inhabited his family for several 
 generations, with the benefit of Jackie gaining supernatural powers that feeds off the dark. Using 
 these powers, Jackie is able to survive further assassination attempts and track down Paulie, but 
 not before he and the corrupt police chief, Eddie Shrote, kill his girlfriend Jenny and escape. 
 Unable to stop them due to the Darkness, he commits suicide out of sheer emotional stress, noting 
 in the narrative that "That... well, that was the first time I died." He finds himself in the Otherworld, 
 the realm of the Darkness with patchwork undead beings in World War I outfits fighting each other, 
 and physical manifestations of the Four Horsemen. He meets his great-great-grandfather Anthony 
 Estacado, who admits that it was he that brought the Darkness into the family, and tells Jackie 
 how to free himself of the Darkness by invading the castle in the Otherworld and facing the Darkness 
 there. Jackie is interrupted in his journey through the Otherworld and brought back to the living.
 
  
  Once he recovers, he determines that he must dispose of Chief Shrote before he can face Paulie. 
 Chasing Shrote to his apartment and then confiscating a briefcase containing illicit goods in Shrote's 
 ownership and rigging it with an explosive, Jackie is able to lure Shrote out of hiding, but he 
 is shortly captured. After overhearing about a shipment of drugs that a Chicago mob is entrusting 
 to Paulie to handle, Jackie triggers the explosive, killing Shrote and his men along with himself, 
 the narrative noting that "that was the second time I died." Jackie re-awakes in the Otherworld, 
 and lays siege to the Darkness' castle with Anthony's help. Anthony is mortally wounded in the 
 attack, but before he can tell Jackie the last steps needed to free himself from the Darkness, 
 the spirit pulls him away. Jackie faces the Darkness and surprises it by willingly being taken 
 by the Darkness' power, allowing him to fully control the spirit back in the real world. He lays 
 an assault on the drug shipment, causing Paulie to flee to safety of a lighthouse mansion for fear 
 of retribution from the Chicago mob. Jackie takes advantage of a solar eclipse to raid the mansion 
 and finally kill Paulie. The Darkness revels in Jackie's murderous spree, and fully envelops Jackie, 
 shouting "Now you are mine!!"
  
  In the epilogue, Jackie finds himself in a dream on a bench in Jenny's arms; Jenny explains that 
 they are only allowed a few minutes to be together one last time. Jackie tries to ask how, but 
 Jenny just quiets him, allowing them to enjoy the last moments together before Jackie wakes back 
 up with the screen fading to black.
  
  [edit] Movie
  
  A movie has been announced based on The Darkness. Whether it will follow the game or the comic 
 series has yet to be revealed.
  
  [edit] Reception
  
  The Darkness received favorable reviews from critics. Most praised the single player campaign, 
 the story and the game's graphics across both platforms, but warned readers about unreasonably 
 bad lag in multiplayer sessions and advised to ignore multiplayer altogether until a patch is released. 
 The Darkness received the Game of the Month award in the August issue of Game Informer. Reviewer 
 Andrew Reiner gave the game an 8.75 out of ten, saying that "Players are immersed in an adventure 
 that brings out the best of humanity." [1]
  
  As of July 7, 2007, the Gamerankings score for The Darkness is 83. [2] . The Metacritic score is 
 also currently 83. [3] .
  Review scores Publication Score
  PSM
  
  9 of 10
  1UP
  
  9 of 10
  GameInformer
  
  8.75 of 10
  GameSpot
  
  8.5 of 10
  EuroGamer
  
  8 of 
 10
  GameSpy
  
  4 of 5
  Game Revolution
  
  B-
  IGN
  
  7.7 of 10
  Official UK PlayStation Magazine
  
  6 of 10
  X-Play
  
  2 of 5
  
  [edit] Ban in Singapore
 
  
  The game was banned in Singapore according to the distributor New Era. The reason for this was 
 due to the local censorship board dubbing the game "swear words" and graphic violence. [4] The game 
 had been scheduled for a July release before the ban.
  
  [edit] Soundtrack
  
  * Music includes: (song - artist)
  * Captain Midnight - Tomahawk
  * Open Casket (edit) - Closer
 
  * I, Deviant - Insense
  * Grind & Rewind - Defleshed
  * Empty Threats - Searing I
  * It won't stop bleeding - Stained Red
  * Rendered In Vain - Zonaria
  * A nice day - El Caco
 
  * Substitute - El Caco
  * Cruci-Fiction in Space - Marilyn Manson
  * Forever Train - Frame
  * Die 5 Times Times 5 - South Ambulance
  * Die Toten Core - F. K..
 
  * Riverbank - Pelle Carlberg
  * 7 Days - Acid House Kings
  * Say Yes If You Love Me - Acid House Kings
  * Last Injection - M. A. N.
  * Lucky Star - The 
 Legends
  * Try - The21st Impact
  * Going Down - Sparzanza
  * Zon - dyF1.6
  * Pure and White - Joy Serene
  * The Hunt - man. machine. industry
  * To Hell and Back - man. machine. industry
 
  * Later That Night - Path of no Return
  * Black and White - Down and Away
  * Once Bitten, Twice Shy - Blinded Colony
  * Shoot It In - The Duskfall
  
  [edit] Sequel
 
  
  A sequel to the game was accidentally revealed due to a letter from a 2K employer to a Dutch rap 
 artist, along with reports of a Top Cow Comics employee letting slips of the title's production. [5] 
 According to several articles, apparently developer Starbreeze Studios is currently working on 
 the sequel, to be released on the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, with plans for a late 2008 or early 
 2009 release. [5] No other information has been revealed about this game since, although it is said 
 to follow directly after the events of the first game. [5] As of December 7, 2007, publisher 2K 
 Games has currently dismissed the reports as "just a rumour" and has refused to comment further 
 on the matter. [5] No official announcements have been made to confirm sequel to The Darkness.
 
  
  [edit] Trivia
  
  * All the graffiti throughout the game was made by a group of active, but anonymous Swedish graffiti 
 artists. Upon beating the game, the player can see a graffiti "making of", narrated by a Starbreeze 
 employee. He reveals that they intended to use real New York graffiti, but could not do so because 
 of copyright issues. As a product of this the player can find many tags written in Swedish.
  
  Words as "hata alla", "lskvska" and "kuk", which means "hate everyone", "soda bag" and "cock".
 
  
  * There are several more references to Sweden including a humorous conversation in a bar, and a 
 garage door painted as a Swedish flag.
  
  * The tag "Lizardking" appears a few times in the game, this is the demoscene pseudonym of Gustaf 
 Grefberg, a Starbreeze employee that composed the musical score for several Starbreeze titles.
 
  
  * It is possible to get robbed, this seems to be completely random and a lot of players play through 
 the game without getting robbed once.
  
  * There are a lot of billboards, posters and fictional adverts in the game. Some of them contain 
 telephone numbers, the player can call these to unlock hidden content like concept art and early 
 screenshots.
  
  * As you are about to sit down with Jenny to watch To Kill a Mockingbird, you will have the option 
 to tell Jenny that you love her. If you choose this option Jackie will say, "Hey, Jenny?" Jenny 
 will say, "Yeah?" To which Jackie replies, "Nothing." Throughout the course of To Kill a Mockingbird, 
 many conversations between Jem and Scout go the same way.
  
  * Before the game's release, it was revealed that there would be two exclusive darkling outfits. 
 One could be obtained in any copy of the game purchased from a retailer in Europe or Australia 
 and the other from a game purchased at GameStop or EB Games. In reality they are not actually exclusive 
 and can be found in any copy of the game by someone who knows the phone numbers that unlock them.
 
  
  * Mike Patton's performance was not edited, creating the sound effects of The Darkness himself.
 
  
  * The Angelus was abandoned for the game, however several concept art for the character can be 
 unlocked. There are also several hints about the Angelus through out the game, such as a man in 
 the sub-way preaching about the winged ones appearing at the Orphanage after the bombing and Anthony 
 in the other world speaking of the balance between the darkness and the light. Rumours abound that 
 the Angelus may be a major villain in the sequel, or get her own game possibly based on the pilot 
 season comic.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AnthraxAngel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 3:21 pm PT
Review:  To be honest, I didnt know that the Darkness was actually a comic book until the day that I baught 
 it when one of my mates told me. But I started checking out the comics and their so cool... just 
 like the game. So put it this way, if I was a fan of the Darkness comics to start off with, there 
 would be no chance that this would of let the franchise down. 
  
  Its all the best qualitites of free-roaming, FPS shooting, mixed with the whole concept of the 
 seedy underbelly of America (New york in particular) , mixed with an impressively deep horror tale. 
 As I said, there is alot of depth to the narrative of this game, which keeps it true to its original 
 comic book predecessor. 
  
  The violence and the scenery is great and very realistic, the soundtrack is awsome, and the wise-cracks 
 are great, but what I found most impressive was the whole horror twist to this game, which is so 
 much fun;
  You can suck your enemies into blackholes, impale them with razor tentacles then chuck them across 
 a street, you can get demons that comeout of your back to eat out your victims hearts... and the 
 abilities keeps on listing.
  
  A very amusing and highly addictive game that broadens its horizons amongst many genres, which 
 makes it so original... a landmark game for any lover of Playstation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sacred_Pie
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2007 3:19 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a realy good game, it combines some of the best things about games: great graphics, 
 great voice acting, gripping story, LOTS of blood and gore and top it off with the Mafia and demons 
 you've got a great game.
  
  The graphics are excelent and very detailed, from every strand of hair to great lighting.
  
 
  The voices are well acted, the main character, Jackie, sounds like a New Yorker and The Darkness 
 itself has a realy evil voice, the characters are loaded with emotion which is very rare in the 
 games i play.
  
  The only problems i have with this game is it is too short, but tht is dealt with by makeing it 
 feel like you've done alot, I would love to see a sequl, maybe a some new Darklings and useing 
 the Dakness to get around (eg useing the demon arm as a rope like he does in the orphange.) .
  
  Over all a great game and definatly one of my favorites. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WereAllCritics
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 21, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  Comic book games have a history of disappointment, just ask anyone who played Superman 64. The 
 Darkness, while not a famous franchise, manages to create a dark, gritty and brutal experience 
 that actually surpasses anything the comic has done. From a technical standpoint, the game is cutting 
 edge: you can see the grease in a slick mobster's hair, there are no framerate hitches, blood realistically 
 splatters across the wall. Story wise the game is also quite a treat, sporting a dark, pulp-fiction 
 feel for a plot that you would find in a good graphic novel. Voice acting in excellent and believable 
 and music suits the mood at nearly every point in the story. The games greatest allowance for freedom 
 is the Darkness mechanic, which lets you utilize a number of otherworldly powers to dispatch your 
 foes how you see fit. To acquire energy to use your powers you must be veiled in darkness, so shooting 
 out lights is a big part of the game. All of the lighting effects are extremely impressive and 
 you would find yourself squinting in the dark if you didn't equip the Darkness. The World War I 
 netherworld you visit when you die during the story is far more exciting than New York City, so 
 unfortunately your otherworld ventures are few and far between. Though at times your Darkness feels 
 over-powered , the game gets you so deep into your role as Jackie Estacado that you feel like you 
 should be overpowering; you're the freakin' Darkness! Overall despite some pretty average gun mechanics, 
 this game is really quite an achievement and should be the standard at which all future comic book 
 based games are measured. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jeepstyx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 15, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Holy friggin crap, batman, this game rocks! It's not enough that you're a hit man in love, fighting 
 for what's right against your Uncle Paulie... you also have demons and darkness, guns and a good 
 story line.
  Once you get the hang of the demons and their powers, you'll find that you can sneak (snake) through 
 a ton of the battles, scaring the crap out of people and getting them before they even know you're 
 there. There are many different powers and many different darklings, plenty of darkling outfits, 
 and just good ol' evil fun!
  I love this game!
  There's enough side jobs to keep you occupied, enough main focuses to drive you forward... and 
 between it all, this game will be one that will take you a bit of time to complete.
  
  There are only 2 cons I've found for this game. The first... no one seems to give a crap that you 
 have demons hanging out of your shoulders, killing and the like. The other is an A. I. glitch. In 
 the subways, the background characters have a limited amount of free will in their paths. If you 
 aren't careful, the characters can get in your way to the point that you are unable to move, namely 
 going through turnstiles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The game doesn't waste any time, thats for sure. Right off the bat you are in a chase scene with 
 people dying, cars crashing, and guns firing. It's a crazy way to begin a game, but it worked well. 
 The learning curve is about a half hour to 45 minutes, only because you don't get your darkness 
 powers immediatly. After getting a feel for the game I felt as though the controls were a little 
 too loose, which affected my aiming a bit, but nothing serious. Almost the entire game is dark, 
 so be prepared to turn the brightness/contrast up a bit on your tv. Needless to say (which is a 
 ridiculous statement, because you end up saying what is needless to say anyway) , the graphics are 
 amazing. The environments feel very real, and people react to your every move. Pulling out your 
 alien tentacles near someone is the same as pulling out your weapon... people freak out. So the 
 game definetly gets a great score on realism. The story takes a little bit to pick up, but when 
 it does you sure are hooked. It constantly keeps you guessing and forces you to become attached 
 to certain characters in the game. There is one part in the game where something happens (I won't 
 say what so I dont ruin anyones experience) and you literally say "wow... didnt see that coming". 
 I definetly got really into this game and I think you will too. I didn't play it online so I can't 
 comment on that ,but I'm sure its a lot of fun, given the layout of the offline mode. I rented 
 this game, but I would encourage anyone to buy it if they like FPS. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wikiwakawongo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 7:41 am PT
Review:  This game starts out you are Jakie Estecado a descendent from a long line of mafia hitmen. On his 
 21st birthay he gains these creatures that lead him. Alright this game is very well done. The blood 
 in this game looks fantastic. So far I havent seen a more realistic blood. The controls are nice. 
 The enemy AI isnt that great sometimes. Throughout the game you get many different powers. Like 
 to be able to summo helping beasts, controlling a creature on the ground, or being able to move 
 things (cars, people, etc.) by stabbing it with a tentacle like thing. The story is good, and really 
 freaky. Overall everything about this game is awesome except some of the AI so I give it 4 stars. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ClassicPlayer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 12:58 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is basically what it says on the tin (or box cover) , it's about The Darkness, and 
 it's powers of controlling people. You play has one of those people, trying to learn how to control 
 it, before it's too late.
  
  If you ever wanted Resident Evil Action+Resistance Online Capabilities+Silent Hill Scares, then 
 this is what it sums up too. This game can't prove you wrong. It has a superb storyline, and the 
 sub missions in the levels are well thought out too. The graphics are superb, and the gore and 
 the amount of powers that you can do using The Darkness can't bore you. 
  
  If anyone has played Resistance and loved/liked it, then The Darkness is your next trip for FPS 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Cloud_Strife37x
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is based on a comic book, but you wouldn't think so (it's actually good) . The graphics 
 are gorgeous and everything seems like there was time put into it. There are small touches like 
 the way every light in the game is destroyable and seeing a triple amputee loading up weapons for 
 you in a violent firefight that lets you know this game wasn't rushed. From the car chase in the 
 begining of the game, to the end, 85% of it is action. The rest, great story and transitional parts 
 where you're in the subway (this is filled with side-quest opportunities) . I won't reveal the story, 
 I hate spoiling things, but if you've ever wanted to play a game that seems very emotionally real, 
 and gives you a ture sense of dispair, sadness, and anger, PLAY THIS GAME. Oh yeah, the gameplay 
 (whoops) , it's a first-person shooter with a twist. You have 2 demon heads coming out of your back 
 and sit on both of your shoulders O_O. These add some very unique powers to your arsenal, and end 
 up being what you use most. Honestly with the Darkness powers, the shooting feels added on, and 
 a little futile when you can use a demon arm to impale someone and throw them at another enemy. 
 Another unique mechanic is the fact that you draw power in the darkness and lose it in the light, 
 which if you play smart, causes you to shoot out the lights in nearly every area. Although this 
 slows the game's pace a bit, it fits really well with the game's story and mood (darrrrrrrrrrrkkkkk...) . 
 Also characters have GREAT voicework, and the expressing of emotions feels as if you're watching 
 a movie. And now, to the bad...
  
  BAD ---
  This isn't neccisarily bad, but this game is filled to the brim with cussing. There's about 50something 
 uses of the F-bomb, a bunch of Sh -- , A-- , and Damn. I even caught C--- in there (no, not "ock") . 
 This game is MATURE. You can rip out people's hearts with your demon and you see the ribs ripped 
 out of place. //Important Bad Stuff\\- The shooting isn't that great, the Darkness makes it fell 
 insignifigant. The game can also slow with the pace too much at times, and I found myself wanting 
 to get back to the action and blast me some fools. Other than that, the game is yummy.
  
  Overall ----
  I suggest buying it, but if not please at least rent and beat it. The storyline 
 is enough to play it, but with the amazing power of Darkness, decent first-person shooting, gorgeous 
 graphics, and a chilling, mature world, it's an experience you're unlucky to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sweet_tear
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:39 pm PT
Review:  The guys from 2k just did another excellent job with this game. It's my first game on ps3.... n' 
 i just love it! It's so brutal, the graphics are extremely cool, especially at high resolution. 
 The story is absolutely AMAZING! is so awesome how he tries to fight his uncle and in the same 
 time try to gain control over the Darkness. The game isn't to hard... cuz in the dark you're practically 
 invincible, cuz the darkness is like a shield, and in the dark it's sucking dark... that's wierd. 
 the coolest thing is eating human hearts, to regain lost power. YOU CAN EVEN WATCH TV! how amazing 
 is that? u can watch a hole movie. u can even take the subway, u can help people... or kill them, 
 if u don't like their ugly faces.... what i really liked about the game is the people.... they all 
 look different and i think that's all folks. if u like crazy-bloody-shooters this is your game! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 2:21 pm PT
Review:  DaRkness is a action and 1st person shooter game. It is very fun, the Story itself is quite good 
 , but u wouldnt care much a bout it caus u just wanna devour someones heart and kill someone.
 
  
  Darkness is 1st person shooter and also som action too. The great thing about it is Jacks power 
 why need any combos if u can devour our peoples hearts, Eat their faces and Shoot their under the 
 belt and faces.
  
  Though the game might be great its very easy. U can eat other peoples heart and gain healph which 
 makes the game very easy. Oh and also u shoot them in the heads they die hard. The game last long
 
  
  Overal Its a great game dispite how easy it is Its still a very Nice game. How wiierd Darkness Shines 
 a bright light 
::::::

::::::
UserName: is0lati0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  I just borrowed this game (only because I tend to finish games in less than 2 days =\) and it's 
 amazing. A wonderful game both including Horror and Action. I haven't finished this game but I 
 can say that the storyline, gameplay and graphics are amazing. The weapons, the enemies and the 
 Darkness fit into this game perfectly. I played this for hours, thinking I could finish this game 
 in less than 2 days but I haven't. This game will keep you playing for about a month or so, but 
 a week maybe if you're a big gamer freak. A game DEFINETLY worth playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pwn3rDude
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:12 pm PT
Review:  I gotta say, graphics of The Darkness are preety damn good! Blood animation, darkness, enviroment 
 and people all look great in this game! One problem, the lighting is used a bit to much in the 
 graphics design and at times is annoying. Although, it's still next-gen, it's still amazing. I 
 don't feel like talking to much about the storyline, but let me tell you that it's good! One problem... 
 near the ending the game ties up a bit fast and there is a huge hanger for ya... Not cool, for 
 a game that probably won't have a sequel. Gameplay is stunning and unreal as you will tear out 
 hearts and eat them. Or throw dead bodies to your heart's desire. If that's not enough, summon 
 a vortex hole and suck every damn living thing into it... Oh wait, no, why don't you just shoot 
 the crap out of someone with 2 pistols or a shotgun?? Or if you don't feel like doing the work, 
 summon a little crazy insane demon who will do the work. To many great murdering things to do; 
 just one problem, stay in the Darkness! Man, that was a mouthful... Overall, I give The Darkness 
 a full fledged 9.0 as it delivered everything I needed from an Modern FPS. Enjoy the gameplay and 
 graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoke300
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 25, 2007 6:48 pm PT
Review:  The fact that my fuel to continue on in the game was all for nothing is kind of a letdown, i try 
 not to spoil it, but those who have played and beaten this game know what I'm talking about. Other 
 than that minor disappointment, this game delivers with lots of gore and beautiful visuals and 
 such.. the story is okay, you will be into it, i guarantee that, i was on the edge of my seat shouting 
 , NO, why did that have to happen .. you will experience joy, sadness, and blood lust while playing 
 this game...
  
  worth a rent, not a buy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eddy96_1
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:44 am PT
Review:  To make it simple The Darkness is a quite a gruesome game. Jackie on his 21st birthday was given 
 quite a surprise when was cursed with the Darkness and survived a assassination attempt by his 
 uncle Paulie. At first you are faced with the dilemma if you should tell your beloved girlfriend 
 Jenny about your secret. During the game something terrible happens to Jackie and he not only wants 
 to seek revenge for what his uncle Paulie has done but he wants to find the roots to The Darkness. 
 Alright enough about the story lets get into the game play. Through out the game Jackie will get 
 new Darkness abilities. These abilities make it easier to fight and when different abilities are 
 used at the same time it can create some cool scenarios. To gain all these extra abilities u need 
 to eat enemies hearts after you have killed them. It involves one of your large snake like tentacles 
 ramming its head into the dead victim and with the sound of ripping flesh it will either share 
 it with the other one or eat it all to its self. Early in the game you will b able to summon a 
 darklings and will get more later in the game. these darklings become very handy e. g the kamikaze 
 which will run itself into a group of enemies and blow itself up, the berserker will use a saw 
 and cut someones head off. Of course The Darkness has a wide arrange of weapons that u will come 
 across. Pistols, SMG, Automatic Rifles, Shotguns you name it the Darkness has it. These weapons 
 of course will make wreaking havoc that much more funner. Aiming in the game is easy as pie. Throughout 
 the game you will come across collectibles which are simply phone numbers on small bits of paper. 
 These give u extra content e. g interviews, concept art all that kinda good stuff. Graphic wise 
 the game looks really good. Although i don't have a HD tv i still found the game look reasonably 
 good. I'm sure the game looked a lot better if would b running at its full potential. The character 
 models are highly detailed. Environments look great lighting of course has to be good cause you 
 get most of the darkness from being in the dark. The effect when you shoot out all the lights in 
 a room and have your snake like tentacles out looks really really cool. Little touches like the 
 way your hands interact when moving around corners, being close to a wall or door, the out fits 
 that u can find for your darklings throughout the game. it all adds to the cake.
  
  So i have said a lot of good stuff about this game but there are a few flaws. Loading times between 
 levels and switching train stations is a bit long. the levels that you move around in feel a little 
 cramped and would of been better if they were more open ended. And really the game could of been 
 a bit longer.
  
  As a person who has never read the comic books or new nothin about the darkness i found the game 
 enjoyable. I highly recommend anyone who has a PS3 to pick it up and give it a go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:22 am PT
Review:  Its not often that the player is thrown into the role of a big heart devouring monster thing inside 
 a human but the darkness is exactly that. you take the role of Jackie, an orphan who was adopted 
 and put to work for the mob. Jackie is meant to pick up some money but fails because the money 
 is simply not there thats were our adventure begins see because of this the mob boss thinks Jackie 
 is deceiving him, and so in true mafia fashion he puts a hit out on Jackie. Jackie is forced to 
 fight back against the attacking bounty hunters, hitmen, lackeys and the occasional crooked cop 
 but he has some help in the form of a big demon thing that lives inside him that feeds on shadows 
 and darkness.
  
  Apart from having a fantastic storyline it is also technically superior to pretty much any game 
 i have ever played if you see it you can pretty much do something to it, my favorite thing though 
 about the little details is the watchable T. V. s i sat for about 30 minutes watching a trolley T. V. 
 its not just that its watchable its the fact that there are about 10 channels and all have quite 
 a bit of content . but onto other little things that made the game for me there was a point where 
 Jackie visits his girlfriend when we arrive we have the option of sitting down with her to watch 
 some T. V. or not if you do she will hold your hand snuggle up with you and eventually fall asleep 
 little things like this make the game very playable and subtle touches make it more and more interesting... 
 oh yeah and you can rip peoples hearts out of there dead corpses which is as much fun as it sounds.
 
  
  there is so much to explore and so much to do in this game but one major gripe would have to be 
 with the A. I. when being shot at the wont run for cover they will usually just stand and take abuse. 
 once when i was in a fire fight one enemy even walked away while his buddy was still shooting at 
 me. Now another thing i found funny was the lack of reaction at Jackie's ability when the monster 
 is visible (it pretty much sprouts out of his back) no enemy runs in fear no civilians run the 
 biggest reaction i got from a civilian was curling up in a fetal position with his head in his 
 arms. another nice touch is when your darkness needs charging all you have to do is destroy some 
 lights to make it dark and stand in the shadows you can see the darkness actually suck the dark 
 energy out of the shadows which is pretty cool.
  
  When it comes to good quality games this is definitely one of them it combines a great story, awesome 
 graphics, skillful design, great characters and weird monsters into a true masterpiece of gaming 
 to be honest it is the first game in a while that has hypnotized me into playing for hours without 
 getting bored and then wanting more. its also relatively challenging in that you make your own 
 decisions but depending on how you carry out these decisions it could get you killed or through 
 to the next level for instance theres a part where you have to break in to kill some high roller 
 they dont know who Jackie is but the cottoned on pretty fast and well lets just say Jackie ended 
 up swimming with the fishes.
  
  so i guess if you want a great memorable game with new concepts and great design then the darkness 
 is a definite must have for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Finchy_2000
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 20, 2007 6:52 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness i find is 1 of those games that you often find where just as you get interested by 
 the story and game play you find that you have completed the game, only in this case the story 
 grips you from the start and so does the game play but still it is a very short lived experience 
 especially when the available technology is taken into account. With the technology available with 
 the X-box 360 and the PS3 especially this game could have been probably been twice as long (not 
 that i know anything about how much of there data capacity they used making the game) but from 
 my point of view this game is much to short for what is expected in this era of gaming, the era 
 of the next gen consoles. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 20, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is an amazing game from the graphics to the gameplay. It also has amazing sound the 
 guns sound very impressive and the voice acting I've seen especialy the darkness's voice it is 
 a creepy but cool effect. The game has a great story and almost sandbox like gameplay. The actual 
 game is about 10-15 hours but replaying is fun and there's multiplayer. The multiplayer is a bit 
 lagged but it's easy to get use to. Every ps3 owner should try it. If your not a shooter person 
 rent it and maybe it might convert you because it's that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 17, 2007 11:49 am PT
Review:  Now we have all been waiting for the darkness to come out, and it is easy on the eyes, and it is 
 a creepy shooter, but serious bugs, and a buggy, slow multiplayer has ruined the game. The game 
 ahs an interesting story line, and it is great in story telling it to you, however, after a while 
 the story will get kind of old, then when you go online, you just want to die.
  
  The single player story is a classical mob-type story, where you are betrayed by the mob, and a 
 hit is placed on your head, except your families curse unleashes havoc. The Darkness creatures 
 are formed from your evil, bent mind, and while it is fun to walk around with two giant heads and 
 slithery beasts on your shoulders, and while it may be fun to eat peoples hearts out and look 
 at the realistic blood in HD, it will get boring and very redundant, and while the graphics are 
 great, the shooting get a little sloppy at timesespecially when your guns have no accuracy, and 
 the AI hits you almost every time! The Multiplayer in this game is so bad. It only has an online 
 multiplayer for starters, which wouldnt be bad, but the fact that the multiplayer doesnt work 
 is what kills this game. The multiplayer is slow and laggy, some maps have glitches that allow 
 you to walk outside on the map boundaries, and you literally fall of the world and die. This only 
 happens on rare occasions, sometimes the screen will freeze up and you have to exit the game and 
 then restart it, this all adds to the overall frustration in with the game. Now this should hopefully 
 be fixed in a patch that is said to be in the works, I would recommend this to you, but I would 
 feel a little embarrassed with some of these bugs, so I will say if you are dying to play it, then 
 fine go out and buy it, but, if you wanted to play it smart, I would wait and see if the patch 
 is released to fix the bugs, if a patch doesnt come out by November, I would say that it will 
 never be fixed
  
  For a poor multiplayer, and many bugs, but a decent overall experience and story I give this game 
 a 7.5 out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sandberd
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 15, 2007 12:33 am PT
Review:  What to do when everybody you know stabs you in the back? Why don't you just do as Jackie Estacado, 
 get revenge. On his 21st birthday, Jackie Estacado blew a job for his uncle paulie, who is the 
 most powerful man in town. So this is where we first meet our hero , in a car with two of his co-workers, 
 trying to make a plan to escape getting killed by Paulie for losing alot of money. But as they 
 drive they suddenly find that Paulie have already set them up, so they end up crashing at a construction 
 site. Jackie is the only survivor and it is now his sworn destiny to get back at his uncle Paulie. 
 But along the way his life takes an interesting turn of event, because it seems that our little 
 Jackie Estacado is no ordinary man, he have a little thing inside him called, The Darkness. As 
 you make your way through the game, you find that the darkness is starting to take control over 
 your actions, and you have to find a way to control it before it have you completely in it's power. 
 But things dosn't get easier for Jackie as Paulie starts to hurt people Jackie care about, and 
 somewhere along the way Paulie makes the greatest mistake of his life, and it only takes one man 
 to show him not to mess with Jackie Estacado. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapso
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 3:09 am PT
Review:  THE BAD
  i first played the demo and then decided to buy the game but it was not really what i enjoy.
 
  it seems like another MAFIA based game to me..... THE GOOD
  the game play is very diffrent to other games adn the story line seemed to be very diffrent aswell. 
 it seemed a bit difficult at first but after i had mastered the movement and controls it seem as 
 easy as CHEESE.
  STORYLINE
  the man who you are controling has had a bad live and an unknow force called the darkness takes 
 him under its wing and he has to do whateva he is told. the voice of the darkness is very creepy 
 and some of like lines he comes up with after you have died like Death is not an option for you 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: greenpyro33
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 3:07 pm PT
Review:  In The Darkness, you play as Jackie Estacado. You're a part of a crime organization and the head 
 of it, you uncle Paulia, is trying to kill you. Around that time, a force called The Darkness possesses 
 you. You are now trying to kill Paulie while not losing control to the Darkness.
  
  This game is a shooter with some action elements. You have a few guns to choose from and you eventually 
 get a choice of about 7. You also have all sorts of Darkness power like the tentacle to knock out 
 lights. When in Darkness mode, you have a shield that reduces damage. You must shoot out lights 
 to stay in the shadows for the Darkness to be strong. -_
  _
  _
  _ The game has it's faults though. To start, it isn't a very long game, but there are side quests 
 that make it last longer. It is sometimes hard to find places as I got lost on several occasions. 
 To final and biggest fault is the multiplayer. It is useless if you can find a room to play in.
 
  
  Overall, it is a fun game that at least deserves a rent. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moonscream
Rating: 6
Date: Oct 6, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  A friend of mine recommended this game saying I will get a surprise and that the game would really 
 be something for me, because I'm an admirer of the horror genre. So I got all excited and was happy 
 when he borrowed the game. So the next day I sat down behind my PS3, at night of course, and made 
 the room as dark as possible. I began to play. The introduction had an GTA kind of impression on 
 me (and I'm absolutely not into that kind of games) . So already I had that feeling that the creators 
 deviated from the original comics which I like a lot. I do have to state that getting those dark 
 powers was fun and the way you could finish off your victims, but I'm not a big fan of horror shooter 
 games (the only one I like a lot is Resident Evil: Code Veronica and RE4) .
  The fact that the main charcter was 21 and talked like someone that is 41 and at the same time 
 was a member of the Italian mafia or Cosa Nostra, killed my belief in this main character dude. 
 The graphics are nice, but absolutely not a next gen game, which I'm so ready for. The plot has 
 some nice twists, but does not provide enough creepyness or horror, nor does the game go in detail 
 or lenghth what the darkness actualy is. This is done too simple and too short. I have finished 
 the game in two nights and it did not motivate me to replay it any soon in the near future. Being 
 around 60EU this game is definitely not worth it.
  Interestingly enough, the game has no in-game movies, which could have brought more color to the 
 game and depth to the characters. It tells its story by just progressing in the game, which again 
 kills the tension, because you simply get to do side quests too, that brings more body bags, nothing 
 else (and collectibles of course, but if you only get concept art, drawings and comic art, just 
 2 short video's. It made me depressed and disappointed when I finished the game, just to find out 
 that the secrets I found unlocked concept art) .
  More dissappointment were the bodies that were lying on the ground after a black hole usage or 
 after devoured heart looked more like rag dolls than bodies. I really hope the entire game industry 
 will take example of the creators of Kill Zone 2 or Metal Gear series, where bodies appear more 
 believable then the rag dolls in unnatural positions. I didn't give this game a lower rating and 
 the only fact is that the game experience can be fun at times and makes you unleash your darkness 
 on your enemies with a smile. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hell-Fire21
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 3, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  What better way than to annihilate your foes with a demon arm or a black hole? You can in The Darkness 
 where you play as Jackie Estacado -- a young mob fellow who was taken by darkness on his 21st birthday. 
 Gameplay is just about seemless with few minor frame-rate issues, but it's certainly not enough 
 to distract you from enjoying the game. You'll immediately find yourself set in Jackie's world 
 thanks to the hardwork put into by the developers, where you'll cross paths with different people 
 and help them out in side-missions aside from the main objective of the game. This extends the 
 gameplay length and adds replayability when you factor in the hidden items you find scattered across 
 various levels that unlock bonus materials. As far as playing the game, controls are easy to get 
 accustomed to and can be tweaked to just about the most pickiest of gamers. You'll get set in no-time 
 to get ready for some action, as you're given a healthy balance of standard weapons and a horde 
 of darklings to call to your bidding. As powerful as you may seem, you'll need those little guys 
 to help you get out of some sticky situations. Without having to give away the entire experience 
 or story-line, The Darkness shows it's worthy of being a next-generation title with visuals, sound, 
 overall compelling story-line and gameplay that has a relatively easy learning curve. Whether you 
 want to rent it or buy it, The Darkness IS worth your time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kong_viking
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2007 4:27 pm PT
Review:  You start right into action in The Darkness, with a crazy car-scene.. And from there too the very 
 end it's full of action and what a game!
  
  The story is great and it's filled with love, hate, rivalry and most of all... the darkness power 
 that controlls the main charachter Jackie Estacado. I will not go trough the whole story now of 
 course, but there is something exiting about it from the beginning too the end which is amazing! 
 By the way.. the story and the game is placed in New York and you have to travel between different 
 parts of NY, and to get from one place to the other you've got to use the subway.. and you can only 
 admire the underground stations, fantastic work by the designers!
  
  The gameplay is very good as well.. it's not just a normal standard FPS, because you've got the 
 darkness power which you have to level up and learn how to use. You will need the darkness power 
 not just against enemies, but also too get trough doors and to pass objects etc. The Darkness power 
 is really fun as well!
  
  Overall this is a fantastic game! I would reccomend it to everyone who's got a PS3 or Xbox360. 
 And did I mention the voice acting and the video sequences? Best ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: diablusx
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 29, 2007 1:47 pm PT
Review:  Even though there is a gap between the time I first played it and the time that I wrote this review 
 there is a reason. This was a game that I had to give time to and see how it would age over time. 
 For the most part the game is fun and using the abilities were initially a nice touch. Going back 
 and playing the game a second time was different story. The controls were nice and responded great 
 but just like the first time through the game it froze on certain spots and prevented me from continuing 
 forward due to the enemies not appearing and the story freezing in certain spots. The only other 
 problem that I have with the game is that it is straight forward. If not for the subway system 
 confusion an average person like me can pass the game in 2 days. While it does have some nice visuals 
 between the straight story line and the freezing I can only say to rent this game or buy used. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eclipse83Lives
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 27, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  The darkness is a really good FP game. But Im not so sure you can call it a shooter in full. Thats 
 because you do so much more in the game, and more with your powers also. The graphics and look 
 of this game are vary cool. Put it this way. I played FEAR after I played this game. And FEAR felt 
 like a old N64 FPS after playing The Darkeness. While your playing the Darkness their is so much 
 detail. So much so that High definition TVs play in the game. They actually play videos and movies, 
 while you walk around them in Pure High Quality. The city streets of somewhat fictional NY are 
 gorgeous and Gothic. And the detail even in the tiny areas is done vary well. Granted the areas 
 are not massive. But every inch looks fantastic. The controls are pretty good. And the super powers 
 give a whole new way to play. Although the controls can get a little weird on one of the superpowers. 
 For the most part they are good. And the story is vary good. Their is no hers a gun, now go shoot 
 for are pride here. Theirs much more. Its a cool story, based around the underworld, and mob/gangsters 
 of NY, and a few other areas. Many characters come into play. A Girlfriend, a Ant, A great great 
 great Grandfather or Uncle or something? Also another uncle that plays a major part. Theirs also 
 other Mob guys, and just regular street rats who tie into the story. Theirs so much talk and connection 
 with the characters. That at some points, you start to wounder if this is a Adventure game. Than 
 soon after a fight will brake out, to show you its not. But the emotion and characters and story 
 are pretty well told, and pretty deep. The story gets more deep as you deal with this Darkness 
 in you, and in others. So much so that you even leave NY for a little while, to take a trip to 
 a wild version of Hell. Hell is kinda like some old World War. Its not a place of this world thow. 
 Its a place where people are stuck at. Its like playing Call of Duty on a bad trip. Which is pretty 
 freakish. The games not short, but its not as long as games need to be. The areas are not as big 
 as they could have been. But some show massive Gothic scale backgrounds. While anything you can 
 get to is vary detailed, so it feels vary large. And everything this game does, it does vary well. 
 And the game actually looks better, after the first chapter in my opinion. Which is the chapter 
 many have seen in tailors or whatever. So yea the game looks vary good. And whats more, is it has 
 a style to it. And emotion comes threw the style of art in the game. The goth feel is drawn out 
 well in this one. Its just a Great, fun game. A FP game thats not about capture the flag. And that 
 puts you into one Dark cool world, with a character you can get to know and like. If you want to 
 leave the hype to others, and play something pretty cool. This is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NateFK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 5:37 am PT
Review:  Pros and Cons (+ & - )
  --------------------------------
  
  + Excellent storytelling and decent storyline
  + "Sharp as razor" graphics
  + Great powers
 
  + Movie-like in-game soundtrack
  + "Should be movie" game
  
  - For ps3 load times are to frequent (and slightly long)
  - Side missions aren't very fun (*Didn't 
 hurt score)
  - Extra content isn't really worth all the work
  - Gun fights are the REAL entertainment
  
  Review
  --------------------------------
  
 
  I'll keep it short since I suck at reviews. Simply put the game is a must own. I want to give 
 a 8.8 but gamespot won't let me so... *shrugs* Anyway, this is the most movie-like game I've EVER 
 played. Lots of games could be made into movies but this one would have to be on the top of the 
 list. heck play the demo and you'll instantly see what I mean. Most of the pros explain why I like 
 the game primarily but like I said in the cons the loads times for the ps3 are to frequent and 
 just a hair to long. but that's the only flaw I could see. Most gamers like myself can easily tough 
 it out cause it is worth the wait, but when compared to the 360 load times, it does get you slightly 
 irritated. Also the extra content you get isn't worth all the extra effort, unless your a fan of 
 the darkness comics (then you'll be pleasantly pleased) . The only real big score killer is the 
 transition from combat to general story. It seems like 10 - 15 mins of combat than instantly 10 
 -15 mins of realvant (but boring) storyline exploration. Simply put, if your not firing a gun there's 
 a lack of fun.
  
  All and all you won't be to disappointed with this game. I can't honestly say it's worth the 60 
 dollar price tag however. Give the multi-player a try to, it can lead to some pretty amusing kills. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:59 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is the best most disapointing game I ever played.
  
  The story is quite coherent and well put together, basically the tale about a mafia hitman with 
 daemonic powers on a quest for revenge against his boss . I don't know the comics, but people that 
 do will probably already know the story in much more detail.
  
  The game's graphics are just gorgeous, a true next-gen experience with lots of detail, realistic 
 textures, light and shadow effects and blood and gore very well represented. However I was dissapointed 
 with the physics engine because there is very little in terms of interaction with the environment 
 (apart from a few things I'll discuss below) .
  
  As for sound, the voice acting is superb (I just love how the darkness itself sounds!) and sound 
 FX are very nice. The soundtrack varies from the sublime to the quite lame (jenny's theme for example 
 would be over the top with a base of piano and violin, as it is in the game it's quite mediocre) .
 
  
  As for gameplay, you'll basically shoot enemies with a variety of weapons or unleash you're darkness 
 powers on them. With guns, the game is a preety generic shooter, safe for the fantastic execution 
 moves that really bring the action to a much more realistic and visceral level. As for the darkness 
 powers, those are what make the game unique. You'll be able to do things like summoning little 
 imp like creatures to slaughter you're enemies or send forth a tentacle to implale enemies or pick 
 up objects (the interactions I refered above) , i. e. picking up a car and crushing enemies with 
 it, or using smaller objects or dead enemies as shields against incoming fire. The only catch is 
 that the powers only charge up by standing in the dark, what means that at some times the game 
 turns into a tedious exercise of shooting every light we find in our path to keep in the dark. 
 Also, the powers are somewhat overpowered, particularly the black hole power makes the game too 
 easy.
  
  Finally, what really makes the game dissapointing is it's length and it's pace. The game is too 
 short by any standards, and it feels like it never really takes off , the pace never really goes 
 over the top, and you end up playing the entire game feeling like things are about to heat up but 
 actually they never do, and suddenly the game is over and you're left wondering why couldn't you 
 do some more?
  
  However, technically and artistically the game is excellent in content and polish and is a very 
 good acquisition for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blackboy3
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 22, 2007 12:45 am PT
Review:  The Darkness features a distinct blend of dark modern crime drama and supernatural horror with 
 intense first person non-linear gameplay. The game is a dynamic first person shooter that allows 
 players to call upon the forces of the evil underworld as they fight in gritty, urban environments. 
 The Darkness features a distinct blend of dark modern crime drama and supernatural horror with 
 intense first person non-linear gameplay. The game is a dynamic first person shooter that allows 
 players to call upon the forces of the evil underworld as they fight in gritty, urban environments. 
 The Darkness features a distinct blend of dark modern crime drama and supernatural horror with 
 intense first person non-linear gameplay. The game is a dynamic first person shooter that allows 
 players to call upon the forces of the evil underworld as they fight in gritty, urban environments. 
 The Darkness features a distinct blend of dark modern crime drama and supernatural horror with 
 intense first person non-linear gameplay. The game is a dynamic first person shooter that allows 
 players to call upon the forces of the evil underworld as they fight in gritty, urban environments. 
 The Darkness features a distinct blend of dark modern crime drama and supernatural horror with 
 intense first person non-linear gameplay. The game is a dynamic first person shooter that allows 
 players to call upon the forces of the evil underworld as they fight in gritty, urban environments. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weimo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 20, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Despite the mob theme and the missions that are impossible to find, the game is worth playing. 
 The first 15 minutes of the game are great and action packed, but the next 2-3 hours of game play 
 are dull and is played out with a kind of GTA feel to it. But after that the game picks up again 
 as soon as you are sent to the WWI level. As the game goes on, you gather new skills, fight off 
 more enemy's, and watch as the story builds up to gather more meaning. By the end of the game, 
 you don't want to stop playing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syberia_II
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  first when i start playing darkness i wasn't able to stop playing with it well that was for the 
 first 15 min , when the weird sound started to talk it started to get more exiting and here come 
 the the ..... the thing that came from his back , now i really started to hate first Jackie never 
 said a word abut that monster hanging from his back like it was something happen every day and 
 that little thing ( i don't now if that is Gollum or what any way this was my last time to play 
 this game through is back to its box and exchange it with def jam icon 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Demonic_Dante-
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:09 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a Comic based game and does it surprisingly well.
  Unlike Movie based games Comic Book based games have a high success rate and The Darkness proves 
 this
  Until you grab ahold and makes it past the first two levels and see what the dark powers can do 
 it's a straight forward shooter but the development is solely based upon the story having little 
 cutscenes and deals more with character interaction this game is one the immerses, the player into 
 the world of this seedy new york underbelly
  It's the story that pushes you forward not the gameplay and that amazing in it's self as most games 
 push gameplay in order to for you to continue on
  
  I chose the PS3 Version cause it looked just a little better (lighting was just right and characters 
 animations were spotless) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mastertimx
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 12, 2007 10:07 pm PT
Review:  the darkness is a fun, twisted game that every hardcore gamer should pick up. either fot the ps3, 
 or 360 it is a great game. I won't spoil the story for you but it is a great story. The darkness 
 powers in the game are great to look at and fun to use. you can stab people and toss cars, or create 
 black holes. those are just a few of the powers you possess, and thats not including your selection 
 of guns. The graphics are great, not spectacular but great. The people and environments look detailed, 
 and with the ability to watch movies, cartoons, and music videos in gamemakes it even better. although 
 not all movies are good to watch. the ps3 version has a couple more movies to watch than the 360 
 version if your interested. its a shame the multiplayer is lacking since alot of games are implementing 
 great multiplayer into them. But once you play the single player you'll forget all about multiplayer.... at 
 least until the games over. that being said the game is fun, and looks great, and even though its 
 not too long ( roughly about 10-14 hours) playing it will be an experience you were glad to have. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 3146
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 10, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  Need more puzzles
  I expected more puzzles like in GOW, where you use your powers wisely.
  
  Combat needs getting used to
  I played Darkness after playing Resistance and the red dot 
 you use to aim keeps jumping around.
  
  Faces look weird
  Some caracters have bad looking faces that disturbs me.
  
  Watch TV
  I like the TV watching 
 feature but it is unnecesary. I am not going to sit around and watch a small TV, I want to play 
 the game!
  
  Free roaming
  It was not a bad idea but there was few to do in the neihbourhoods. They could have added some 
 car driving ability or something to get around.
  
  Side quests
  I love doing short misssions in between, like helping people.
  
  Bad ending
  I thoaght it 
 would end with a uge monster or creature but instead a small scene where the darknesstakes over. Not 
 a happy-ending. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbui54
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:51 am PT
Review:  THE GOOD: Impressive graphics, engrossing story, well-developed characters, excellent voice acting, 
 insane violence and gore.
  
  THE BAD: Too easy, tedious traveling, and little replay value.
  
  The Darkness is full of goodness 
 even if the title says otherwise.
  
  GAMEPLAY is good. New York Orphan, Jackie Estacado, is out for revenge and he has a spew of weapons 
 and demonic powers at his disposal. The combat in The Darkness is satisfying for the most part; 
 however, the cinematic story is what makes the game truly special. The gameplay itself suffers 
 from a lack of difficulty since Jackie can stealthily kill any enemy from afar with his Creeping 
 tentacle attack or wipe everyone out in one shot with a devastating black hole. What's more, there 
 is the tedious amount of back tracking through New York City's subway station which causes frequent 
 albeit sometimes entertaining loading scenes.
  
  GRAPHICS are outstanding. The visuals sport a very dark and depressing look which really throws 
 the player into the middle of the action. New York City is not the only location in The Darkness 
 so expect to see a lot of interesting places. Moreover, all the characters including the ordinary 
 civilians are sharp and detailed. The blood and gore are especially fantastic if you have the stomach 
 for it.
  
  SOUND is superb. Everything from the music to the sound effects are top notch. The voice work is 
 exceptional with The Black Donnellys' Kirk Acevedo as Jackie Estacado and Six Feet Under's Lauren 
 Ambrose as Jenny Romano. There are a ton of other talented actors in The Darkness that bring the 
 characters to life.
  
  VALUE is decent. The Darkness lasts about 10-13 hours and although there is a lot of extra content 
 to collect, they are not really worth the time and effort. The best unlockable goodies are the 
 comic books which appear to be extremely different from the game. There is also an online multiplayer 
 mode that during this review would not connect.
  
  OVERALL The Darkness is worth checking out even for players not into first-person shooters. The 
 dark powers and variety of weapons make the game entertaining enough to last the journey, and the 
 story and graphical presentation more than make up for any flaws. The Darkness definitely earned 
 its Mature Rating so it should only be played by people old enough to handle it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jake44
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 5, 2007 1:19 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of those bloody and brutal games that makes you happy when you play. The story 
 is great, which is kind of a rare thing with FPS. You play as Jackie Estacado, a hitman who on 
 his 21st birthday, discovers that he has an evil entity, the darkness, inside of him. The darkness 
 is a powerful gift that allows Jackie to easily dispose of his enemies, but it is also a terrible 
 burden. The darkness battles Jackie by trying to take control of his body and mind. The struggle 
 between the two is fierce, and highly intriguing to witness. If you are a fan of storyline and 
 FPS I highly recommend this game to you. Even if your not a FPS fan, it's well worth playing to 
 see the story of Jackie Estacado.
  
  ps- I wouldn't buy the game for the multiplayer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 10:48 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a really good game. The first thing I noticed was how nice the graphics are. Very 
 detailed when youre in the towns you really feel like your there. The story is pretty good it 
 keeps you playing to see what happens. You also feel like your pretty much free to do what you 
 want although you end up having to so some things it really doesnt feel like your being forced. 
 The darkness powers you get are pretty bad ass to. I played through it once. It was good but I 
 didnt have the motivation to start it all over again lol. But Id say if youre a fan of messed 
 up crazy shooters like I am. Then you will defiantly enjoy The Darkness 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ut40755
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 28, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  this shooter/action game definetly has some added dimensions to keep you stapled to your seat (except 
 when you jump out of it in shock) . the creepy voice in your head that the player hears every once 
 in a while is well placed, and is just straight up scary. the powers u get are amazing. the multiple 
 ways u get to kill people are just fun as all hell. graphics are great. story is pretty good. interface 
 could use some work, a little hard to grasp. not much explained about your powers either, u kinda 
 gotta experiment. for a shooter, this game really stands out. its actually different than every 
 other shooter out there. this is definetly the first must-have ps3 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hottstreetballa
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  Graphics are good, story is good (Hooks you in the beginning) , Some cool scenes, very original... but 
 the game lacked for me. Yea its cool to eat your enemies hearts, and to puncture them with an alien 
 arm... but it all gets boring and repititive after an hour or two. And the coolest thing about it 
 is the Darkness and it sucks to have to shoot out just about every street light you see before 
 going out and shooting down any enemies, especially if theres a decent sized group of them.
  I played it for about a day or two and haven't played it again since. The framerate for the most 
 part is good but it does get choppy at certain scenes. And its annoying that some parts of the 
 game are VERY easy and other parts seem to be VERY hard. Multi is just tacked on, and full of lag, 
 I was unable to find a playable game online. I recommend anyone rent this before buying it. Unless 
 you're a young teen who never gets old of seeing an alien head devour a heart time and time again, 
 you'll prolly get tired of it at the 2nd hour. Last but not least, the story rocked in the beginning, 
 got boring then got interesting again, then got boring again, it kind of goes back and forth. If 
 you're looking for a good FPS on the PS3 and don't have one yet, I'd get Resistance before this 
 one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LoA_Spinalcord
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 8:23 am PT
Review:  The game is an awsome game! It has twists and turns that will keep you on the edge of your seat!
 
  
  You can replay the game as many times as you want - And is well worth it i may add! There are things 
 that you will see again and will make more sense or just enjoy killing anyone you want in the streets 
 :D
  
  This is a must have. Do not buy this game for Online though!
  The online is Linear and looks like it was off one of the old Quakes. Very dull. May please you 
 for an hour but that hour will be filles with lag and may take you half an hour to find a match!
 
  
  Overall story is a 10 but online is a **** 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dragondude
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  the darkness is a brilliant game with a great story that will get you hooked. the game can be quite 
 gruesome at times (like when eating peoples hearts!) but that really shouldn't bother you, and you 
 should know that jackie (the main character) does like to swear alot. like i said the game does get 
 you hooked and the story really sucks you in, but the story is fairly short and if you wanna get 
 more time out of the game you should probably do all the side missions but these tend to be quite 
 repetitive and usually include kill this guy and find these things. another thing to extend the 
 playtime is to find all the collectables which are telephone numbers, letters and darkling outfits. 
 the ability to summon darkling is cool as they are funny little demons that will make you laugh 
 when you first see them pee on someone. another thing i liked about the game was that jackie talks 
 to you at the loading screens to make them less boring. the darkness is an amazing game but it 
 definately loses marks for its bad multiplayer it definitely deserves an 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSPS3Freak
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 5:26 am PT
Review:  I am not a big fan of First-Person Shooters in general, but I have to admit that this game did 
 blow me away, in a manner of speaking.
  
  I am pleased to say that I got more out of this game than I expected.
  
  One thing that I am 
 quite amazed at is the facial expressions on the characters, the detail put in actually makes me 
 feel the emotion sometimes. The TV sets found throughout the game are something else... it is quite 
 fun to sometimes just sit and watch a cartoon, or music video, or even a movie.
  
  Gameplay itself is something that any gamer could be happy with, a very smooth and well put-together 
 experience... and enough gore to go around for those of us who enjoy such things.
  
  This game truly has a lot to offer.
  
  The Darkness experience is something I would recommend 
 to anyone.
  
  On the whole, a very fun and addictive game... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kazanator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 8:44 am PT
Review:  Well, what can i say, i read the reviews in magazines and the game just didnt look too good. But 
 i decided to get it anyway and now i know it was worth the money becuase this game is awsome. Firstly 
 ill talk about the story, its basically a guy who works for his unclue paulie who is in the mafia 
 or something like that and he does something wrong and his uncle goes mad and tries to kill him, 
 then jackie gets these powers called the darkness and sets out to make his uncle pay, then his 
 uncle kills his girlfriend and paulie dies and goes into the darkness's mind which happens to be 
 world war one*spoilers* and then the darkness starts taking over him and eventually he kills paulie 
 and the darkness takes over him completely which is the end of the game. Its an engaging storyline 
 and it pulls you into the game. Next the graphics, which are the best iv seen so far on the ps3 
 and 360 (excluding gears) . The particle effects are nice as well as the explosions, the guns and 
 of course the lighting effects and environments. The sound is quality too with great voice acting 
 and gun effects especially the darkness's voice which is really creepy. Overall this game surpasses 
 any other FPS's on the PS3 and is a must buy for FPS fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vampirejack
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 22, 2007 11:17 am PT
Review:  I played the demo for this game, and to be honest i was not very impressed. After much deliberation 
 and debating i finally said screw it and decided to get my darkness fix. As a shooter the game 
 is only slightly more impressive than Dirge of Ceberus... The demonic powers you get in this game 
 are pretty awesome. I was the red darkness power (the one that stabs objects) was more accurate 
 though. You'll find that it locks onto one object and its hard to break away from it if you're 
 trying to move a bunch of stuff around in one area. This will not hinder you from completing any 
 important stuff in the game though, so no worries. The story is incredibly touching. I won't ruin 
 it for anyone. But it delivered story elements i have not seen anything quite close to in any other 
 game. The TV thing with different channels (popeye and some other cartoon, Kung FU, 2 crappy music 
 channels, Sci Fi, and some other show) are pretty cool, if not awesome at first, and baffled me. 
 But they get old after a while. There are several elements in this game that make you feel like 
 you're truly engaged in a different world. It could have used more civilians outside the subway 
 in my opinion though. If you're a fan of the Anime: Hellsing you'll love this game. If you're a 
 fan of any gothic like stuff you'll like this game. If you're just a hardcore shooter fan who doesn't 
 really care about stories or plots in games.... PLEASE look elsewhere. Many people will enjoy this 
 game and I'm glad i purchased it. I'm looking forward to a sequel with polished elements. Oh yeah... by 
 the way... i went to online multiplayer just for 10 minutes... THE WORST ONLINE/MULTIPLAYER GAME... LOL. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 5:00 pm PT
Review:  Although The Darkness is a fairly fun game that has a nice idea for a story. The voice acting is 
 quite nice, it does not leave you convinced in what the actors are trying to inspire to the player. 
 The darkness is all about revenge and it does not leaving you feeling as if your character really 
 wants it. The load scenes are quite nice, yet the cut scenes are horribly bad. None of the characters 
 look too real and hardly even move their mouth when talking. The actors seem to be very passive 
 through out the game no matter what happens. Even the mobster bad guys when they see The Darkness 
 coming. You would almost think it was an everyday thing to have these demon type things slithering 
 tward you to rip your throat out.
  
  The darkness is the name of the demon creature that has taken over Jackie Estacado as it's host. 
 Jackie is a mob hitman for his uncle who ends up setting Jackie up and kills him. The game starts 
 when you awaken in the back seat of a car racing through a New York tunnel. You are being chased 
 when a money exchange has gone wrong. Now heading to a construction site to take out the foreman. 
 At this point nothing seems to go right which leads your uncle to believe you have turned on him 
 and puts a hit out on you. After your car crashed tward the end of a the tunnel that is when your 
 story really starts to take off. After your Uncle Paulie tries to Ice you. You take it apon yourself 
 to rip his whole operation apart from the ground up. In the mix is jenny, Jackie's girlfriend and 
 most important person, Paulie strikes back sending goons after her and anything or anyone else 
 to hurt you.
  After paulie tries to kill you, you become infected by The Darkness, which it only wants you as 
 a host to control, it helps you in your rampage against paulie and his thugs as you seek revenge 
 for all that he has done. The Darkness comes with a alot of special abilities. Such as low light 
 vision in dark areas, demon spawns with different abilities to shoot, explode or even take out 
 lights for you (which is needed to make The Darkness survive) . It also gives you the ability to 
 send out a slithering demon to take out enemies farther up the line or just see what is around 
 the corner waiting for you to pop out. This is a nice feature all its own, but the controlling 
 of this snake like demon is unbelievavly annoying and hard. Any small things on the ground (be 
 it a rock, a dead body or a bench) gets in your way. Which leads to you either stopping on a dime 
 in your tracks or shooting you in the wrong direction. It is not something to get used to, it happens 
 through out the game and gets even more annoying with everytime it happens.
  
  As The darkness comes with this huge inventory of weapons, the game also comes with a slew of guns, 
 which for the most part are not quite useful. You will for the most part find yourself using half 
 of them throughout most of the game. With all the guns you get the most impressive are the hand 
 guns you get making them the most effective. They also have the best execution kills. The Darkness 
 has this very nice feature called excutions . Which is done simply by getting up close enough to 
 your enemy and pulling the trigger. You do things like put the gun in the mouth of your thug and 
 pulling the trigger doing a gruesome murder.
  
  There is some side missions you can take care of while trying to run through the main story. Most 
 of which are easy and not worth pulling off. Much rather use your time to finish the main story, 
 which is quite short in itself. The game never really leaves you lost in any situation, you seems 
 to always know where to go next. Although right out of the gate the game can seem to be confusing 
 while you wander the mean streets of New York looking for where you have to go. After a few trips 
 in the city you learn it like the back of your hand and you are set for the reast of the game.
 
  
  Even though the story in this game is very original and fun for the most part, it leaves you wanting 
 more. By the end it just drops off in away, it seemed the developers just wanted to end it, no 
 matter at what cost to the game itself. Although The Darkness comes with replay value, the lack 
 of main story leaves you not wanting to tackle the game again. If anything it leaves you hoping 
 for a sequel with a much better story and a bit more enthusiasm from the actors. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Woodsy1991
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  -The Darkness- WOW could be the word to sum this game up. But that wouldn't be much of a review, 
 so I am going to tell you what I think about this incredibly unique First Person Shooter. To start 
 things you play a young Mafia Hitman named Jackie Estacado. Youre in New York and what I loved 
 about this game was the gore! On the night of Jackies 21st Birthday you acquire this Demon like 
 Ability called The Darkness. You get this ability only three levels into the game and by the 
 time you reach halfway into the game you receive all the abilities available. The Darkness is shown 
 on the Screen as to Demon Heads above each shoulder, you can control the right one along the floor 
 to sneak kill enemies or travel through vents to unlock doors etc. The Demon arm is basically a 
 huge arm which impales your victims. Then you have the Demon Guns which arent particularly exciting 
 as they are powered by the darkness and if youre in the light you have to put them away which 
 is a bit of an inconvenience, then my favourite power is the Black Hole which self explanatory. 
 You can also summon 4 different types of Darklings, these darklings are basically little minion 
 with there own abilities, who aid you through the game. Now once you have killed enemies you can 
 eat there hearts, which is just terrific! The Weapons in this game range from handguns to Assualt 
 Rifles, these guns are lots of fun especially when you pull off the cool execution kills, my favourite 
 weapon was the dual Pistol. One of the things you will notice when you first play this game is 
 the Graphical Detail. The environments are pretty grim but still very impressive, its always night 
 time which is convenient for you as you need it to use the darkness but your not just in New York, 
 you find yourself in the Darkness mind in two stages of the game, now the mind of the darkness 
 is the worst environment possible, it seems that you find yourself in no-mans land in what looks 
 like WWI, you find German enemies you have disgustingly scared faces, and allies who have pieces 
 of the faces sewn back on like Frankenstein, in this environment you find your great great grandfather, 
 Anthony Estacado. The reason for this is because he is the one who brought The Darkness into the 
 family, and this is part of the Compelling story which is what makes this game so exciting you 
 want to discover more, but i'll let you find out for yourself. Your main objective in this game 
 is to travel around parts of New York Hunting down your Uncle who has not only tried to kill you, 
 but has killed your Girlfriend, and youre now hell-bent on revenge. But the maps in this are very 
 small, and you come to a loading scene every time you enter a new area, but there is a short video 
 to watch whilst it loads up which is rather convenient. The problem with the maps is that you have 
 to get on trains and have to remember what places accessible on which station, and a sprint mode 
 would have come in handy as well. The Story is very easy to follow, and makes this game very interesting, 
 and you powers make the game quite easy so you wont want to play on an easy setting, you can unlock 
 accomplishments such as 30 Demon Arm Kills to unlock extra content so you play again to achieve 
 them, plus there a many side missions to do if you want to take a break from the main story or 
 if you want to unlock that extra content such as Comic books or concept art, Playing the story 
 alone took me just over 8 hours to complete on the default setting. Unfortunately for me and possibly 
 others, I cannot play the multiplayer as my NAT Type is 3 and must be 1 or 2, it can be changed, 
 but takes a lot of work. Nevertheless I loved this game and Im still looking for that extra content 
 so I got some playing still to do, this game is lots of fun, and I hope you get it so you can experience 
 the fantastic gameplay and storyline as well! Thank You. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aznkhaos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is my first PS3 game and I'm definitely enjoying it thoroughly. All of my first experiences 
 in this game: first stealth kill, first execution style kill, first darkling summon, first darkness 
 level. All of those are vivid memories and I'll slowly savor those moments with savage glee as 
 i proceed on with the story. Spoilers
  
  The story, is very simple. Your uncle, who raised you up as a hitman, decided to bomb you and murder 
 your sweet Jenny. Now you want to get sweet revenge. The gameplay is very fun and it plls you in. 
 I just love summoning kamikaze darklings to take out masses of enemies. I love the creeper darkness 
 power. You send out a darkness head and you can stealth kill people and devour their hearts. Although 
 you are vulnerable wen you do this so hide behind something before doing so to avoid being abruptly 
 pulled out of creeper mode.
  
  I'm just a couple hours into the game and I say its pretty damn good.
  
  I also heard that 
 online is very laggy so i haven't even bothered.
  
  Your's
  -azzy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BJonesUK
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 20, 2007 10:56 am PT
Review:  A great game; highly polished with a well rounded storyline. The voice acting is superb and raises 
 the bar for those that follow. Because of this, as well as the cut and loading scenes, you get 
 involved with what happens to the main character. Scenery and level design was very good, with 
 an excellent use of two subway stations being all that you needed to connect you to many places. 
 Other NPCs looked amazing with acting coming across as passable.
  One gripe was that sub characters (darklings) were not as controllable as they should have been 
 (IMHO) and they seemed more afraid of enemies than the main character.
  The ending, like a central part of the game play, comes from leftfield, but only added to what 
 was already a great storyline. I will no doubt play it again, soon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AtillaTheHun
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  Darkness:
  
  It has perfect resolution / graphics whatever you would want it to have in system specs.
  
 
  The gameplay is Awesome the best iv ever seen , when i seen you were able to control a demon inside 
 of your self that looks kinda like a squid , The arms are amazing you get 1 arm that rips out the 
 victims hearts and 1 that does some other stuff but they both pwn you get some good skills like 
 Demon Arm where you use this fat squid arm to thrust into anything and swing it around or just 
 carry it with you haha!.
  
  The bodys disappear witch is kinda silly but ah well what is a person / demon gonna do with a dead 
 body besides rape it -_-.
  
  The storyline is really good and voices / people actually suit each other rather then having a 
 little queer voice as a muscled up man.
  
  Out of all of it though if your gonna buy your first game for ps3 i Highly recommend you get this 
 game.
  
  The company that made this i forgot yer name sorry,
  you lot are amazing for making such a Perfect game alot of gore alot of violence and alot of swearing 
 makes a true man ! But it might inspire some of these thick heads who believe the bounds of shadow 
 are the way to enlightenment, but it aint your fault its theirs and their parents for not teaching 
 them the honourable way to live ( anyway i dont no where im going with this so bye bye ^_^ ) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 20, 2007 7:20 am PT
Review:  I had heard a few mixed reviews about the Darkness and I was a bit reluctant to pick it up. Right 
 away let me say, I'm glad I did. You play as Jackie Estracado, a guy that is just turning 21 who's 
 adoptive dad Paulie, is a mafia crime-boss. Paulie is going nuts and tries to whack you b/c he 
 fears you're going to overtake him. As he is turning 21, the power of the Darkness comes out in 
 him, giving him powers he never had before.
  
  One of the best elements of this game is it's story. This is a rare example of a video game that 
 really does a story right. I was interested in the story and cared about the characters all of 
 the way through the end of the game. The voice acting is phenomenal and Mike Patton (Faith No More 
 singer) does an incredible job as the voice of the Darkness. All of the storylines fit very well 
 within the game and the main story is a good length for the game.
  
  As you progress through the game you will gain different darkness powers, allowing you to do different 
 things (won't mention to keep from spoiling) . You also can summon Darklings to help you in tough 
 spots. You gain more power by staying out of the light as the Darkness feeds off of, well, the 
 dark.
  
  The graphics are solid in the game as well. I tried the multi-player but there weren't any people 
 in any rooms playing so it doesn't seem like online is all that popular.
  
  The Darkness doesn't have many flaws to the game but there are a couple. Some areas don't give 
 you much direction so you'll occasionally find yourself wandering around in some spots, looking 
 for where to go next. There's also quite a few spots later in the game where you're near invincible 
 b/c of your new powers and there isn't a lot of danger. These are not huge flaws though and don't 
 take much away from the game. Overall, the Darkness was an incredible gaming experience for me. 
 It doesn't have a ton of replay value but is definitely worth playing through again on a harder 
 difficulty. It's rare you find such a captivating story in a game like this one, let alone one 
 where the gameplay is as solid as it is here. I STRONGLY recommend checking this one out as it 
 was a surprise hit for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: solidsnakechamp
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 19, 2007 10:01 pm PT
Review:  the darkness, made by 2k games this game is one of those wierd but enjoyin type of games. it has 
 all you need in a CAMPAIGN mode, great sotry, great grpahics and for those of you who love GORE 
 your in for a treat because this game is all about the gore. your name is jackie estacado and your 
 a mob gangster i would say, your uncle paulie who took you in from a orphange is a scary man and 
 very powerful man as well. anywayz so the story takes place on your 25th year bday in new york. 
 you basically want revenge from paulie because he tryed to kill you and succeded on killing your 
 beautiful girlfriend jenny. so not to long into the story you enconter your friends yes your darklings. 
 you realize your possesed by this evil darkness and now you have to kill paulie and find a way 
 to take these evil darkness serpent things away from your body (as life couldnt be any harder) 
 the game has a great story and most important characters you meet are very memoreable. but where 
 this game shines is at the graphics. the graphics are the most detailed graphics i have ever seen, 
 with everything smooth and just attractive to just keep watching. the game runs along 10 - 15 hours 
 long so its a average length of a game. but if you dont go a heads and do the side missions and 
 collect all the collectables you'll run through this game in a matter of 5-9 hours at most. the 
 multiplayer is what hurts this game the most as you cant even play when one person is lagging. 
 the idea was really cool, transforming into a darkling and a human by a click of a button and the 
 maps were cool to, but it looked like 2k games didnt spend enough time on this and spent more time 
 on the story and graphics, etc. (which is bad at all) in the end if your looking for slattering 
 humans and watching there blood splatter all over the place then you should definetly go get this 
 game at least rent it. but if your into online and hours and hours of gameplay i think you should 
 skip this one, all in all this game deserves a respectable grade and if everything is well 2k should 
 consider making a sequel =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrokenDreams13
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 17, 2007 12:11 am PT
Review:  When The Chronicles of Riddick: Escape From Butcher Bay was released back in 2004, gamers everywhere 
 were treated to a very immersive, and somehow different, first person shooter. So when word got 
 out that Starbreeze was cooking up another shooter, gamers rejoiced. That game became known as 
 The Darkness, a first person shooter based on the comic book series by Top Cow. It has an amazing 
 story that weaves two seemingly incommensurable elements together in such a way that one would 
 think it to be impossible. It is a tale of corruption, greed, love, and of course, darkness.
  
  The game starts off with a bang as you wake up in the body of Jackie Estacado, a New York style 
 mob hit man on his 21st birthday. You are in the back seat of a speeding cab when you awake, you 
 must have been passed out from a blow to the head earlier. Your eyes open to find two men in the 
 front seat screaming over the loud roar of the cars around you. You begin to realize what happened 
 and why you are here. You come to find out that a money-collection deal for your uncle Paulie has 
 gone wrong and he says you are to blame. He becomes enraged and puts a hit on you for your actions. 
 The high octane car chase ends in a crash and its up to you to survive and take down your corrupt 
 uncle before he gets you. Soon after the beginning of the game Jackie becomes possessed by The 
 Darkness, some sort of demonic creature that represents itself as two big snake-like creatures 
 that come out of your back. The Darkness, voiced by Faith No Mores Mike Patton, also speaks to 
 you in an attempt to persuade you to do its bidding. After you are possessed you dont have to 
 have The Darkness out at all times however. With a push of a button the creatures will go back 
 inside of you and wait for your next call. It does grant you some excellent new powers and abilities 
 that keep this from being another one of those run-of-the-mill shooters however, so you will most 
 likely have it out and ready for battle. While The Darkness is manifested, the first thing you 
 will notice is the heightened visibility in the dark along with a less vulnerable body frame. It 
 almost acts as a shield against enemy fire and such. Along with that, your first Darkness ability 
 is called creeping dark. This lets you drop one of the demon arms to the ground and control it 
 as you see fit. Throughout the game you unlock more abilities that enhance your overall power towards 
 enemies. Around the same time you will get the ability to summon darklings out of these darkness 
 gates in the ground. They are little creatures that attack and destroy your foes. Throughout the 
 game you will be able to summon different ones, bringing the total to four different darkling classes. 
 Next you will earn a demon arm attack, which causes a big sharp appendage to jut out of you and 
 stab guys or move objects. Eventually youll unlock guns that use The Darkness energy as ammo, 
 and a black hole attack that deploys a big black hole used to suck guys into and pretty much kill 
 them instantaneously. Switching through the certain attacks on both consoles is done with the D 
 pad. Going up and down selects The Darkness powers, while pressing right and left select your weapons.
 
  
  All of these attacks use up The Darkness energy and one way to replenish it is by standing in the 
 shadows for a quick recharge. This makes shooting out lights an unpleasant chore throughout the 
 games entirety. The other option is a bit more entertaining however, and its by eating human 
 hearts. It really can be one of the more entertaining features in the game. All you do is walk 
 up to a dead enemy (it has to be an enemy, no good hearts allowed) and press A or X depending on 
 which console you are playing on. This allows one of the demon arms to reach down and rip the heart 
 out of the dead enemy. Starbreeze really did a good job with the animation here as sometimes the 
 two arms will fight over the heart before it is devoured. Oddly enough, the right one always wins. 
 Take that as you will. Most of the time however, the demon arm will just grab the heart and chew 
 it down with some nice sound effects. The weapons in the game, although big and loud, seem to come 
 off as useless carry-ons. With all the power you get from The Darkness you dont even seem to need 
 them. The dual pistols you get at the beginning of the game seem to do the trick from start to 
 finish. This may be due to the games effortless gun play. At times you feel like your aiming reticule 
 just takes itself to the head of your enemies. Along with the games lackluster AI, it makes for 
 some pretty dull firefights. One cool feature in the game are the execution moves. If you get close 
 enough to an enemy and fire your gun, Jackie will do one of his various gruesome executions and 
 destroy him or her on the spot.
  
  The developers did a nice job with the overall look and feel to the game. Its very dark and gritty, 
 just like any M rated action game should be. They paid special attention to detail as the games 
 textures look phenomenal from top to bottom. The frame rate holds up nicely and thats a real testament 
 to what they did with the constant action and amazing physics. Using the black hole attack gives 
 you a perfect example of what the games physics engine can do.
  
  Although the games enemy AI is less than impressive, the rest of the world is rich and believable 
 as New York City. During the games slow parts, you will find many characters to talk to, and often 
 times get some information on a side quest worth completing. These quests range from going to kill 
 someone, to jumping on some train tracks to try and pick up some coins before you get hit by the 
 train. All of these add some length to an already lengthy single player experience, as well as 
 create a more believable environment for the player. The story keeps things moving and once you 
 get to the end of the game you feel very accomplished as it seems like youve covered a lot of 
 ground. Due to the games natural length, along with a good amount of secrets and side quests, The 
 Darkness should keep you playing a pretty good amount longer than your average shooter.
  
  As for the multiplayer portion of The Darkness, its pretty much bare bones. It is online only, 
 on either Xbox Live or the PlayStation Network, with your basic multiplayer game types like deathmatch, 
 team deathmatch, and capture the flag. It does give the host some control over the games settings, 
 but for the most part its pretty average. You arent able to use The Darkness powers you get in 
 single player; instead you play as a regular human with the ability to morph into a darkling. Being 
 a darkling removes all of your weapons, but it does grant you the ability to climb on walls to 
 surprise the other players. There is also a huge lag problem with the game as it is. A patch in 
 the future may be able to remedy the situation, but as it stands its nearly unplayable. When it 
 works it can be a nice distraction from the games main focus, and that is the single player.
  
  The Darkness is definitely in the top tier when it comes to voice acting. All of the characters 
 sound phenomenal and true to life. Jackie sounds like a true New-York style mobster, and it was 
 a tremendous job by everyone involved. Like I said, Faith No Mores Mike Patton does the voice 
 of The Darkness, and in my opinion does a fantastic job. The only disappointment is the mismatch 
 of voice and lips. The characters seem to not move their mouth at all in some spots, and this leads 
 to a loss in realness in the characters. However the body language matches perfectly and brings 
 a true lifelike appearance to them.
  
  The differences between the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions are minimal. You wont notice any 
 graphical differences, as the game looks extremely sharp on both. The only real difference between 
 the two is that the Xbox 360 version has achievements, whereas the PlayStation 3 version has accomplishments. 
 They are exactly the same, except you dont get any reward for your actions in the PlayStation 
 3 version, whereas you get Gamerscore in the Xbox 360 version. Starbreeze has said the PS3 version 
 of The Darkness will be compatible with Home but since Home isnt out yet, theres not much we 
 can say at this point. All in all both versions are roughly the same, with just minimal differences.
 
  
  The Darkness is just one those games that needs to be played. From the amazing story line with 
 well written dialogue and plot twists, to the satisfaction of eating some dirty mobsters heart, 
 you really cant go wrong with this game. For anyone looking for a fantastic, mature single player 
 action game, with a little side of multiplayer, you can do a whole lot worse than The Darkness.
 
  
  ~Mike Pelletier 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alt_version
Rating: 8.9
Date: Aug 14, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is nothing short of a spectacular game. That said, I would caution FPS players before 
 diving into this game, try the demo available on both PSN and Live so you can get a taste before 
 buying this title. The first thing this game makes crystal clear is that it is tightly wrapped 
 in an immersing yet playable story. The game will very rarely take control away from the player 
 even most dialogue scenes still allow the player to move about, or if you prefer you can watch 
 from fixed angles (just dont touch the movement sticks when the scene starts) . This allows the 
 player to be as active in the story as they please, though it is hard to play through without catching 
 at least some of the plot and given the quality of this games story, besides given the quality 
 of the voice acting and compelling story I shouldnt think anyone would want to pass the story 
 by. Having read a few pages of The Darkness comics, I really wasnt looking forward to this games 
 story line, the comics leave a lot to be desired. I was blown away by how well the development 
 team worked with the comics author to create something so perfectly blended with the best of the 
 comics original material, and the new material. If you have read the comics dont let this game 
 pass you by, I think youll find it quite enjoyable, and if you have never read The Darkness dont 
 feel like your missing something because everything in the game is explained so you wont feel 
 lost. Much of the story line comes from observation and careful listening, not everything is directly 
 discussed so the player really needs to be involved in the game to get the most out of it, which 
 is a great attribute considering the Darkness is a first person shooter. The Gamespot official 
 review made a pretty big deal out of the voice acting in this game, before playing the Darkness 
 myself I couldnt understand why it was so important to them. The quality of the voice acting becomes 
 immediately clear in the game. No voice sounds out of place, even the random people populating 
 the subway sound authentic. The voice acting is of such high caliber that as a player you can actually 
 get a sense of relationships between characters just by listening to how they talk to or about 
 one another. On a game play level the voice acting adds to the overall immersion in the world of 
 the Darkness. One of my personal favorite things about the game was the loading sequences. Not 
 only do the loading sequences feature smooth animations and fantastic graphics but they are also 
 home to some of the best dialogue in the game. Jackie says things during the loading times that 
 are aggressive, funny, heart warming, encouraging, nostalgic, and generally these little tid-bits 
 enhance the story in some way shape or form. As I played through I almost looked forward to the 
 game loading again (which only happens when you enter or leave an area of the game) . the ambient 
 sounds, like the trains in the subways and televisions in the background all really sound great, 
 and the weapon sounds are beefy enough to be believable. All in all the sound quality of The Darkness 
 is pure and simply perfect, you couldnt ask for anything more, (10) . This leads into the graphics. 
 Starbreeze blew everyone away last gen with The Chronicles of Riddick, and since then CoR has largely 
 been recognized as the best looking XBOX game, thats quite a reputation to uphold and believe 
 me, Starbreeze does not disappoint. I wouldnt go so far as to say they are the best graphics ever, 
 but what they do, they do extremely well. The detail in The Darkness is amazing, but often it is 
 best to see characters from a little distance to get the full effect. Up close textures tend to 
 blur slightly and you can see the odd geometries off character models, but you rarely have a chance 
 to get close enough to ever notice these things. The lighting is obviously a key part of the game 
 play and as such seemed to receive a lot of special attention. The flicker of a dying light was 
 so well done that I found myself killing lights for no other reason than to kill them while running 
 around. Shadows may be a bit too dark at times, but that is again hardly noticeable and doesnt 
 take anything away from the quality of the graphics. Overall the graphics are phenomenally well 
 done, but there are enough little things and hiccups that a player will notice something is amiss 
 from time to time overall the graphics deserve a very solid (9) . Game play is something that I 
 found I had to get used to. The player uses the triggers to fire the weapon held in either hand, 
 or for assault rifles and shotguns they have a melee attack with the left trigger. Weapons do seem 
 to have a severe auto-aim, which can be toned down, but more often than not the auto aim is a good 
 thing if not a little too helpful in some cases. Occasionally I found my guns locking onto bad 
 guys heads and being able to kill six or seven baddies with just a few bullets. While this did 
 make me feel pretty cool it also made much of the combat very easy. This seems like a good time 
 to mention that the normal difficulty in the game is often quite easy, and very rarely will the 
 player find themselves in a situation that is overly difficult. While you may die a few times the 
 normal difficulty doesnt present much of a challenge, because you do have such devastating powers 
 and your health does recharge you never end up in a situation where you are helpless. Hard however 
 is quite difficult. You can only take a few shots before dying, so it makes the game a much more 
 interesting experience, combat wise at least. The Darkness powers themselves are also quite powerful 
 and never really run out because you can just recharge in the dark. The great physics system and 
 fun abilities give the player a lot of room to destroy at their leisure and the destruction is 
 very fun. The only thing I can really fault game play wise are the gun controls, they are just 
 not quite right but still function without being frustrating, (9) There is some real length to 
 the single player mode of The Darkness, and there are many little side missions that make you feel 
 like you did something nice for someone in need. Unfortunately few of the side missions have 
 anything to do with the main story line and are easily bypassed, but I recommend that you try and 
 complete as many as possible as they are often fun, funny, and always exciting (who doesnt like 
 killing things?) . Unfortunately there is not anything too fantastic to draw the player back once 
 they have played through the single player portion of the game. The multi-player is decent, but 
 there isnt too much going on with it. While it is fun to play a few times I found myself getting 
 bored after a few weeks of causally playing online. The story is the real draw of the game, and 
 it is fantastic! I would recommend keeping the game in your collection so down the road you can 
 revisit this remarkable game. Because the game doesnt offer anything spectacular to keep the player 
 coming back time after time, I think the value deserves an (8) , you defiantly get your moneys worth, 
 this is a game for the collection, hang on to it, you will go back but it may not be in the same 
 week or month. Finally just because I find this game to be so enjoyable (yet not without its flaws) 
 Im tilting the review with a (9) . I really enjoyed this game and even if you dont buy it, try 
 the demo and get a taste, it really is remarkable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acwt111
Rating: 8.8
Date: Aug 13, 2007 11:46 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of the few summer realeases for the PS3 and it sure is one of the best. You 
 play Jackie Estacado, a hitman who receives a unexpected inheritance on his 21st birthday. Through 
 the game you learn to use darkness powers which have devastating powers. The gameplay in the game 
 is extremely fun and it is easy to get into the action. The graphics are not a revolution but do 
 give a nice look. This game is absolutely perfect for horror fans but it also has appeal to any 
 PS3 owner as it is fingertips from perfection. Overall the game is another PS3 game that will revolutionise 
 gaming with its great story and superb gameplay - 8.8 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shay00cooper00
Rating: 8.3
Date: Aug 13, 2007 6:03 am PT
Review:  There was much hype about the Darkness me and my brother arguing over how good the game was going 
 to be and i have to say i was at first disappointed to find that the ps3 version of the game was 
 delayed, but i waited and eventually got my hands on the game after having played it on the xbox 
 360. I was pleasantly surprised with the game, the graphics are as expected from a relatively new 
 ps3 game. I enjoyed the story of playing as Jackie a mobster with the added side story of having 
 been possessed by the Darkness but enough with the good. I felt that though the story was immersive 
 with some nice touches for example the relationship between Jackie and Jenny. However in overall 
 i was disappointed with the length of the game it could have been longer, although what is there 
 is very good. I think the saving grace of the Darkness is the fact that as Jackie you go round 
 eating hearts and the like, this brings back happy memories of games such as the Blood Omen series, 
 for some reason many gamers enjoy the feeling of killing people and desecrating their corpse so 
 if like me you enjoy a nice gory game the Darkness is for you though not very long eating hearts 
 is too good an opportunity to miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LordSchmee
Rating: 9.7
Date: Aug 12, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a great game...
  The controls are great... the graphics are great... the gore is awesome!
  and who doesnt wanna 
 run around New York with Darklings following behind you and having tentacles reaching round from 
 your back?
  The ONLY downfall to this is that he doesnt have the cool armour he has in the comic...
  That 
 was one kick ass suit of armour...
  What Id like to see...
  
  1) A sequel where Jackie goes to hell to find Jenny ( (Yes it happens in the comic) )
  2) A cameo 
 appearance from Sara Pezzini/The Witchblade and maybe even the Angelus...
  3) a bit more Immunity to light/less lights... cmon you spend half the game shooting out lightbulbs
 
  4) more weapons... not that the weapons provided wernt good... but in the comic he had the ability 
 to make gatling guns from the darkness and swords...
  5) the ability to CHOOSE what your Darkling wears... and making the darkling outfits availiable 
 for all darklings and not just the Berserkers... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a_grunge_fan
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 18, 2007 2:11 pm PT
Review:  This game is based on The Darkness comic book franchise which features Jackie Estacado, an orphan 
 who was raised in St. Mary's Orphanage with current girlfriend Jenny. Jenny knows everything about 
 Jackie, but there is one thing she doesn't know; Jackie is a hired killer, his job is to kill people.
 
  
  But one night, whilst in a car ride in the back seat with your fellow killers, you get ambushed 
 by Uncle Paulie's men, Uncle Paulie (the don of a huge mobster organisation) is the one who took 
 you in from the Orphanage and raised you, but now Jackie and Paulie have a furious grudge against 
 each other. The game basically goes from there, so I won't give away too much story. Let's get 
 to gameplay....
  
  The Darkness is basically an FPS with a twist, in this game you get something called Darkness Powers 
 which basically allow you to perform all sorts of things from ripping out people's hearts to sucking 
 all your enemies into a black void, but that's just the aggressive side of the Darkness powers, 
 you can also use your powers to help you unlock doors that you can't get to but your powers can. 
 You can also summon Darklings which will help you in many ways, for example there is one called 
 The Gunner who simply let's loose with his huge machine-gun and there's one called Kamikaze who 
 will basically blow itself up where ever you direct it to do so. Of course, you won't be able to 
 use all these powers from the start of the game, you've got to earn them by devouring hearts, to 
 do this you simply press X next to a dead enemy and you'll have a nice heart to eat. Most FPS games 
 are really linear, but with The Darkness, you can basically go anywhere you like just as soon as 
 you reach the Subway Station, there's side-missions to do if you find them, for example there's 
 a certain one I remember in which a woman challenges you to pick up 4 coins before the train comes 
 and kills you, that's just an example of a short side-mission, there's another one I remember in 
 which this scum guy takes over his girlfriends apartment and kicks her out so she tells you to 
 retake the apartment, you can do this by either simply scaring him or shoot a bullet into his head, 
 so the side-missions do vary in what you have to do, it's not always go and pick up a bag and bring 
 it back , these have depth. I should also mention that you can find collectibles on your way through 
 the game, these collectibles have phone numbers on them in which you can phone up at telephones 
 and unlock extra content, stuff like this make the game that bit more fun to play. As for the main 
 gameplay, during the game you'll be basically talking to people in an attempt to get that bit closer 
 to Paulie because remember, Jackie hates this guy and wants him dead so for the most part of the 
 game, you'll be trying to find him, along the way you'll shoot enemies that vary from your regular 
 mobster to a complete SWAT team and trust me, you can tell the difference in difficulty between 
 regular guys and SWAT soldiers. For the locations in The Darkness, it's set in New York and you'll 
 be able to go to various locations (nothing like the Liberty City or anything like that) but places 
 that fit with the game, such as there's a certain place called Butcher's in which this guy called 
 Butcher takes in dead bodies and makes sure the Police will never found out about it, this game 
 is all about interacting with people, getting information and visiting different locations.
  
  Also, there's parts of the games where you'll be taken to World War (Yeah, I know your confused) 
 and you have to fight off Zombie Soldiers, these are really hard sometimes because they won't die 
 until you devour there heart or use your Darkness Guns (a pair of guns you obtain later in the game) 
 and every so often, a lighting bolt flashes and teleports you into a crowd of Zombie Soldiers.
 
  
  The Darkness can have tough moments in which you'll die almost instantly unless you take cover 
 quick, such as there's a part where a huge SWAT team ambush you in a church and if they manage 
 to get to you, you'll be dead in 2-5 seconds, it all depends on the difficulty of the game though.
 
  
  As for guns you can use in The Darkness, you get your standard pistol in which you can have 2 at 
 the same time in each hand and by pressing R2, you'll shoot the right gun, pressing L2 shoots the 
 left one and of course, pressing both shoots at the same time, you get a pair of Magnum-type guns 
 later aswell which are basically the same but a bit more tougher. You also get a Combat Shotgun 
 which really packs in some damage (especially if your upclose with your enemy) , there's also a range 
 of machine-gun type guns from a pair of Uzi's to a riot gun, so you've got quite a few guns to 
 play with in The Darkness, that's if you decide you don't want to use the Darkness powers. I should 
 also mention that you can use stealth-kills to kill enemies, this involves sneaking behind enemies 
 and pressing R2, this kills your enemy instantly.
  
  Using The Darkness is key in this game, I mean the actual Darkness, in dark corners and things 
 like that because without it, you won't be able to perform any Darkness powers, it's best to shoot 
 all the lights you come across.
  
  Overall, The Darkness is a game worth getting, especially if you read the comic series. Great FPS 
 gameplay with a twist, great story and a generally good game. Oh, and it has online multiplayer. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroHero151
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 8, 2007 10:17 am PT
Review:  so in this game you play as a young mob gangster named jackie estecado. in the beginning of the 
 game you'll find that your boss and also uncle seems to have some harsh feeling towards you. an 
 accident happens (and you will find this out about ten minutes into the game) and the darkness 
 comes and saves you, oh yeah.. and also tries to take control of your soul. as you play through 
 the game you'll find out the origin of the darkness and why it has chosen you to be its host. you'll 
 jump back and forth between modern day city streets to fight on and demonic gothic versions of 
 hell in which you try and fight the darkness inside you. along the way you gain cool and awesome 
 powers that the darkness grants you to use to kill your enemies, and trust me, some are pretty 
 sweet. character animations are awesome and theres also a variety a free play side mission that 
 you can take on in the subway whenever you feel like it. all and all the game is a good game for 
 fans of first person shooters with a somewhat rpg twist, mixed in with tons of gore and violence. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: haesuse
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 7, 2007 1:16 pm PT
Review:  I've read quite a few reviews on this game, and notice a lot of ppl looked at it from a standpoint 
 of a plain shooter. So i am gonna cut down the basics and tell you what is really up.
  This is not a typical shooter. You should not be comparing the gun fights here with R6V or something 
 like that, Darkness brings a whole new idea to the FPS table, as you more or less play thru a part 
 of the comic story. This is where the game excels in so many different ways.
  
  First and foremost the darkened ambient and the following feel of a comic book is at its best. 
 There is not that much photo realism but the lighting and the locals are displayed in a manner 
 of Sin City and are just gripping. Sound throughout the game is excellent and most of the dialog 
 is straight out of the comic book. One of the my favorite parts of the game are the cut scenes 
 in which, almost Dante-esque bad ass, Jack narrates whats about to go down.
  
  While the game doesnt feature much on the realism in shooting or the weapon selection, like i mentioned 
 before, it does make up in the Darkness powers, looks of the demon and the very cool and original 
 looking horde of mini demons you spawn to help you.
  
  One of the things that may get annoying a bit is the lights shooting. At 1st its kinda cool and 
 new but eventually you just pray for some master switch as it will get a bit repetitve and old 
 very soon.
  Second thing i did not like was that the shooting, even though its not supposed to simulate Navy 
 Seals or w/e, is just a bit too simplistic and clunky. However the amount of gore and the over-the-top 
 comic book visceral kills will help you get over that hump.
  
  While i am keeping the review a bit short i will say this much more. In case you are tired of saving 
 the world or taking 10 minutes to eliminate 2 enemies with proper stealth factor, and you're looking 
 for a cool story, cool characters and some serious anger management thru some demonic ass kicking 
 the Darkness is definitely game to own. Worst case scenario, rent it, beat it, and go back to playing 
 R6V online! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 6, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  When i first heard about this game i was expecting alot about it. and whe ni started playing, i 
 knew that i got my moneys worth.
  The Darkness is a great game with amazing animations, action and an incredible storyline (after 
 i beat it, i was craving for some more) that makes you want to find out more, and very realistic 
 looking graphics (i loed looking at the very realistic looking graffiti and walking down realistic 
 streets and subways) . however, the game is short and i expected more Darkness moves. But overall 
 this game did impress me from the beggining to the end. Voice acting is great, and the ability 
 to walk around freely in between certain misiions is satisfying. Multiplayer is pretty intense 
 but it could have done better with a split screen co-op/versus.
  One thing i just don't get is why people are whining over the fact that you have to wait for trains 
 and that you get lost alot. Well, sure, it was frustrating trying to find the right areas, but 
 once i got a hang of reading maps, and folowing signs, it was easy. and the trains don't take long 
 to get to their stop aneways.
  The Darkness is a great game and i would reccommend it to any FPS fans out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ganga
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 6, 2007 7:31 pm PT
Review:  If you never owned a Xbox then you may not know that I am referring to the excellent game in the 
 Chronicles of Riddick made by Starbreeze. Well I think, however, many of you do know that the Starbreeze 
 made Butcher's Bay and because of that you are probably anticipating this game to be just as good.
 
  
  Well not so fast my friend! Graphics: Is this a PS2 game I am playing because I am having a case 
 of the Jaggies!
  
  Story: Above average, especially the whole meeting the dead ancestor thing.
  
  Replayability: 
 Online is not bad, but no one is playing. Core game is not worth playing again because the story 
 is wholly linear.
  
  Bonus content: Cool Top Cow comics that read quite well on a HDTV set up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: charley_mcd
Rating: 8.4
Date: Aug 5, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is easily the best game in my PS3 libary at the moment (I have 3 games) Even though 
 it lacks multiplayer and has some minor framerate issues. The darkness keeps you captivated with 
 its stunning graphics, fantastic storyplot and really cool darkness powers. Towards the end the game 
 it can get really easy with the darkness powers but this game certainly does have replay value 
 and has tonnes of extra content to unlock. Although I have to admit a movie browser would of been 
 nice! I'm going to give The Darkness a 8.4 because of its awesome ,atmospheric scenery and really 
 fun gameplay. . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 3, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Another installment from the Riddick series the first game was great but was let down because of 
 the rather average movie starring Vin Diesel. The real question is has this game improved upon 
 the last game? Well the simple answer is. No. It is not better than the last game. Why? This game 
 has some interesting ideas and only if they were executed better could have made this game a real 
 success. However due to rather dumb enemy AI and average level design really shows that this is 
 a step back. Considering the AI had so much attention paid to it, it is really poor as the enemies 
 are dumbed down from other games. The enemies seem to take hardly any notice to Jackie's large 
 tentacles. Although these are really annoying and seem to be done in a lazy manor i will now point 
 out the good parts of the game.
  
  Graphics:
  These are fantastic. Loads of detail even in minor things such as a brick wall, a few more jagged 
 edges than the 360 version but altogether this has more detail than the 360 version.
  
  Game play: The darkness powers are a really nice touch like spawning voids and throwing your enemies 
 in. Eating their hearts is great but this can't save the game from dumb enemy design and sometimes 
 rather average level design.
  
  Story:
  Could have been allot better. Mainly because its poorly told and constructed but the real funny 
 thing is how Jackie takes no notice of these strange darkness powers that have suddenly inhabited 
 his body.
  
  Overall:
  The game is good. A bit over average but nothing phenomenal. A step backwards for the series. Mainly 
 due to the poor enemy AI average level design and poor story. Could have been allot better. Score:
 
  7/10 recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SumerianDaemon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  I was not sure i made the right decision when i bought this game but when the action started i 
 was delighted! The dark-underground atmosphere along with the darkness were enough to make me crazy.
 
  
  In the whole game the presentation of the story and the characters is amazing and the wonderfull 
 graphics and sound aid to this. Loved the soundtrack:)
  
  This game impressed me by using some elements that i never considered the most important such as 
 voice acting and real cinematic action.
  
  I still havent mentioned the gameplay! Well, oddly enough, the gameplay here is mostly the way to 
 go further. It is pleasurable (mainly because of the Darkness) but it could be much better. The AI 
 of darklings and enemies will sometimes make you laugh but hey... having the chance to rip an enemy 
 off easily because hes stupid isnt bad!
  
  If excitement for you is complicated FPS battle thats not it.
  
  Finally as you can guess from 
 the gameplay the multiplayer doesnt fit to the games character. So when you finish the story mode (i 
 did it twice normal&amp; hard) you dont have many things to do except finishing it again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: joe_boy83
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 4:55 am PT
Review:  The Darkness based from the comic book is transported to PS3 in all its style and Gory.
  
  Done to such a great effect, this is visually silky smooth. Not necessarily in every department, 
 but where it counts is in sheer high attention to detail, not just the environments but that same 
 detail is given to the many characters throughout the game. That said there are minor faults with 
 such high end graphics such as some visible glitches.
  
  The animation is also first rate in execution but again minor faults that can appear as jerky animation.
 
  
  All this comes at a slight price in that the frame rate is not the best out there, but certainly 
 not bad either. The gameplay isn't just your typical 1st person shooter, thanks to the comics as 
 you might know of? You have a power called The Darkness, hence the games title. Acquiring more 
 darkness skills as you progress keeps things interesting and are actually a fun way to kill enemies 
 from your standard guns which you have, but oddly are not that powerfull but perhaps forcing you 
 to use The Darknesse's abilities. So, as much fun as the gameplay can be, it is flawed in that 
 respect. The sound is very good to put it bluntly. The story is your typical revenge plot but also 
 interesting to see the posseion that has taken over your body, that is The Darkness. The game has 
 lots of style but the scenes before the loading times can get annoying, when all you want to do 
 is to get right back into the action, which brings me to the subway stations, this is where the 
 game trys to give you freedom but in reality is a boring way to depart from the action. So as great 
 as this game appears in style it is flawed. It could have been something really special. Nevertheless 
 a great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PapaGlide
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 9:05 pm PT
Review:  I was really excited when i heard about this game to be told that it was going to be developed 
 by the Chronicles of Riddick Guys. You knew the expectations were high. Well the hype is over and 
 its here and its kickin ***
  
  You play as Jackie a mobster who celebrates his 21 first birthday with vegeance by killing Uncle 
 Paulie and his gang when they try to blow you up. The game kicks off with you in a car and man your 
 running from the cops, the graphics are just perfect and the nbang your friend gets smacked by 
 a truc kby falling out. Brutal.... Then you crashg and the game's story takes off from there.
  
  The game has some of the most impressive graphics i've ever seen. The cutscenes and voice work 
 is well done in every aspect to bring the story to life. The loading screen isn't boring either. 
 Jackie tells a little about himself on whats happing making the game clear and right to the point.
 
  
  The gameplay is fantastic. Nothing feels better than biting a dude's face off which makes you feel 
 like god. The shooting is also incredible easy. I get headshots like automatically which contributes 
 to the awesomeness of this game. Oh, you can eat people hearts too, summon demons to cut people 
 up, use darkness ammo to blow up helocopters, sneak up using the darkness to bite someone's neck 
 off, summon black holes to shoot people around. The list goes on and on.
  
  The Darkness itself is what makes the game different from other shooters. You have two one on the 
 left the other to the right. The attacks are pretty much what I listed above. There is also an 
 element to it too. They get powered up in the dark so you have to shoot out lights so your ready 
 to go.
  
  The gore in this game is just sick. Its not for the little ones for sure. Theres bad language and 
 cussing so its what you would expect from an m rating. The game also looks better on ps3 and in 
 my opinion is the better version. But the game is kinda quick and well there isn't much replay value 
 to be honest. A purchase is good but a rental feels like the better choice i should've made instead 
 of spending 60 bones.
  
  The online play is so-so at best. Its notthing like the single player shooting wise and well you 
 dont have the same powers and the maps are boring but you can turn into a darkling. 
 
  Its a First Person Shooter you need to check out 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sacredarrow3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 30, 2007 12:37 pm PT
Review:  Alright, I thought this would give me the experience that F. E. A. R. gave me but I was wrong. The 
 story in The Darkness is probably me favorite FPS story ever. It is based off of a comic book after 
 all though. Even though I kind of wished the main character had cool armor like in the comics now 
 that I think about it he looks fine being normal human-being looking. Also the costume may look 
 extremely odd *pictures yellow spandex*. So you are Jackie... this was a fun way to start a game, 
 shooting people while in a car... nice. You don't get The Darkness yet but of course it does talk 
 to you at the beginning leaving you with questions. But once you do get The Darkness powers you 
 know it isn't a good thing. After literally owning people left and right with your powers you end 
 up going through twists in the storyline, you end up in hell... or at least it sure looked like 
 it. You'll find out later if you ever play this game. So throughout this game you fight the cops, 
 some gangsters, your inner-darkness and your uncle Paulie. You can use tentacles to kill, summon 
 a dark hole, use a snake like thing to sneak up and attack your enemies for massive damage or use 
 The Darkness Guns which have unlimited ammo. Oh and devouring hearts is only half the fun. These 
 guns, The Darkness Guns that is, are dual wielded pistols that look out of this world. The right 
 hand one shoots rapidly and is weak while the left hand one is a powerful single shot. While this 
 has unlimited ammo you need to go into the shadows to charge it up again. Which brings up another 
 fun point in the game. Shooting out all the lights and instead of fearing the dark you are the 
 dark. The Darkness will fail in the light and disappear after a while in the light. So you have 
 to shoot out all the lights and this makes you feel superior as the enemies get owned. The last 
 stage is probably my favorite and my least favorite stages has to be whenever you are in that hell 
 but that is only because I thought it was weird and didn't want to fight dead Nazi zombie like 
 things. Overall this is a must whether you are a PS3 owner or 360 owner. I don't think this will 
 make you a FPS lover though if you never liked FPS games... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amin915
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  I Had never heard of the darkness prior to the game release. i had never read the comics or anything. 
 So i went on pure gamer instinct on this one. it looked very interesting and i really wanted a 
 new game for my ps3. First the game starts with an awesome action scene. my roomate. shes not into 
 games as much. actually sat down and watched the intro it caught her eye. She stayed there until 
 the Scene where you meet Jenny. she had to leave to work. but was constantly texting me asking 
 me what was happening. The gameplay is great a different but awesome shooter!! Check it out! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doctorj11111
Rating: 7.2
Date: Jul 30, 2007 7:16 am PT
Review:  The slow pace of this game is what killed it for me. In between action you are in a subway station 
 looking for the right people to talk to so they can give you your objective. Sometimes they give 
 you side quests and other times objectives that are mandatory to follow the storyline. There was 
 literally a time I spent 30 minutes without ever shooting anything. I was just wondering around 
 because I was lost or just trying to find the right person to talk to. You get lost a few times. 
 Once you are in battle, it is also slow because half the time you are shooting out all the lights 
 so you can use the darkness. The darkness abilities were actually pretty cool. You could open up 
 blackholes, climb up walls and sneak behind enemies, summon suicide bombers, and many other abilities 
 you learn. The graphics are good, but not great. It does offer a decent storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 30, 2007 1:18 am PT
Review:  I don't know if its just me, but whenever I hear that a video game is being made off of a movie 
 or comic book, I twitch. Looking back at prize winners like Pirates of the Caribbean, Transformers, 
 Land of the Dead and every Spawn video game ever made you can see how these games are usually average 
 at best. Only rarely will you get games that are the caliber of Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers 
 or Spider-Man 2. When I heard that they were turning The Darkness into a video game I wanted to 
 be excited but I had been burned too many times before.
  
  The Darkness is based off a comic book created by Marc Silvestri, Garth Ennis and David Wohl in 
 the late '90s. As was popular for the time, The Darkness is more of an anti-hero than he is anything 
 else. The comic follows the story of a Mafia hitman named Jackie Estacado. On his twenty-first 
 birthday his uncle Paulie, the head of the crime families in New York, puts out a hit on Jackie 
 fearing that his nephew is seeking to take control of the Mafia for himself. The only thing that 
 saves him from a young death is the emergence of an ancient evil force from within himself, The 
 Darkness. This malevolent entity is the only thing that can help Jackie take revenge on his uncle 
 Paulie and his cronies, but what is are its true motives?
  
  Even though this is a combat heavy game there are only about six guns to be found and used. However, 
 other than the pistols, most are of dubious use. Most of your fights will occur at a fair distance, 
 which means that using either of the two shotguns that you find are a waste. The two rifles that 
 you get are both pretty solid weapons but there is little in the ways of ammo for them for most 
 of the game so there is little reason to use them either.
  
  Jackie is fond of wielding single handed weapons in pairs, so the last two weapons you can use 
 are a pair of pistols and a pair of sub-machine guns. The sub-machine guns are fine guns except 
 for the fact that they go through ammo so fast that you can't rely on them for too long. This leaves 
 you with the trusty pistols. Whereas in most games even a pair of dual-wielded pistols are back 
 up weapons they will be your best friends in this game. They are accurate at long range, do a fair 
 amount of damage and they can kill an enemy via headshot super fast. Plus there is plentiful ammo 
 for them meaning they can be used to take out light sources, I will explain that in a moment. The 
 last advantage to using the pistols, and the sub-machine gun, is due to the way that Jackie fires 
 them. Rather than wasting his time reloading Jackie will drop an empty gun and draw another one 
 to replace it. This means that as you fire guns Jackie will drop one and draw another to replace 
 it. This lets you keep up a sustained amount of fire unparalleled by even the automatic rifle due 
 to the rifle needing to be reloaded.
  
  Setting this game apart from other FPS games is the namesake entity, The Darkness. Once this creature 
 rears its head, it changes how you play this game. Normally the way you tell how damaged you are 
 is the screen turning red and sound being muted as Jackie gets hurt. This goes away with and is 
 as close as you get to knowing your health. But when The Darkness is activated two demonic snake-like 
 heads will be on your screen, one on each side. You can tell how much power you have by the lights 
 that are on the heads. These lights also change color depending on what power you have activated.
 
  
  When you have the Darkness activated it protects you from harm, absorbing some of the damage you 
 take and letting you see in the dark. It also lets you see portals that can be used to summon Darklings. 
 These mischievous but malevolent little guys come in four different types, all having different 
 uses. They aren't the smartest NPCs and will get hung up on walls often but they can be good for 
 distracting enemies and inflicting damage on larger groups of enemies. In some situations they 
 will also be needed to solve a puzzle.
  
  Much like Chronicles of Riddick, your place is in the shadows but the reason for it is different. 
 Whereas in the last game you needed the shadows to keep you hidden so you could stealth kill enemies 
 in this game the shadows are your life. Light will weaken the Darkness, taking your energy and 
 hurting the Darklings. Only in shadows can you recover the energy used to power your abilities, 
 so taking out lights is of the utmost importance.
  
  There are four powers that the Darkness allows you to use: Creeping Dark, Demon Arm, Darkness Guns 
 and Black Hole. Creeping Dark allows you to send one of the two demon heads off to sneak through 
 ventilation shafts, over walls and to generally open the path for Jackie. Demon Arm allows you 
 to knock out lights, move objects in your path and to impale enemies for a one shot kill. The Darkness 
 Guns can be used in the place of your normal weapons, emulating a sub-machine gun and shotgun but 
 powered by your Darkness energy. Black Hole does what you would imagine, making a whirling vortex 
 that sucks in all enemies and objects in the area, making the game after you get it way easy. All 
 of these powers are incredibly useful although the Darkness Guns are a bit dubious in their usefulness. 
 The Demon Arm is probably the most fun, allowing you to fling cars at enemies with a little practice 
 or carry one as a mobile shield.
  
  This is one of the most graphically intense games so far on the PS3. All of the character models 
 look fabulous, their clothing moves great and the environments are all incredibly well detailed. 
 Lastly, the weapons all look and sound great but they don't even compare to how awesome the Darkness's 
 abilities work. From tearing out an enemies heart to make The Darkness stronger to sucking enemies 
 into a Black Hole and watching them rag-doll about, all these powers look incredible. The only 
 complaint that I had with it is that the character faces show little emotion and their mouths barely 
 move most of the time. But this is a minor complaint considering the regular quality of the game.
 
  
  Audio in this game is totally top-notch. Not only do the ambient sounds really capture the feel 
 of living in New York but all the weapons sound great. On top of that, all the voice acting is 
 incredibly well done which is saying something especially since the entire game is voice acted. 
 What really makes the audio in this game so awesome is The Darkness and the Darklings. The Darkness 
 sounds incredibly creepy and suitably demonic even when it is trying to be seductive with its offers 
 of power while the Darklings themselves sound like the little lunatics you would expect even as 
 they pee on one of your dead enemies.
  
  Do take note that the game is a bit short, totaling only nine hours on my first playthrough, there 
 is something of a mediocre multiplayer mode. This feels more like an add-on for those who complained 
 that Chronicles of Riddick was missing this than it does a well thought out game mode. While I 
 am grateful they put this in its quite obvious that this game was designed with the single-player 
 experience in mind. Do take note that this game has a very open ending, doing its best to leave 
 room for a sequel. For those people who don't mind getting some story into their FPS games then 
 this is a must own. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DPumbliQ
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 27, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  To begin with this game looks amazing, i have never seen an FPS so good looking before
  
  The Gameplay: Well its always fun to get too be the evil guys in the game instead of the good guys, 
 this game gives you a lot of options and loads of fun, if you are close to a character you can 
 do a finisher and kill him easily, its easy to aim at enemies cause of the auto aim....... but the 
 game may become a little repetitive at times, but you will live through it and find some more amazing 
 and fun action
  
  The Graphics: These are the best graphics i have seen in an FPS, maybe even in a game, everything 
 looks really cool, and the blood is one of the coolest thing in this game.... so real....... i dont 
 think there is a big difference between the graphics in the 360 and PS3 versions...... well the 
 only thing about this are the lips of people when they talk...... they do not open their mouth clearly, 
 so you have too know how the character sound or the camera points at him
  
  The Sound: The Sound is great, hearing the Darkness talk too you gives a fun thrill, and the gun 
 shots sound real and the explosions sound amazing..... The voices of the characters in the game 
 are very well done, and they sound very real, your character really does sound like a really hardcore 
 mafia hitman.
  
  The Value: Worth the buy, renting or download the demo, every way to at least get too try this 
 game are good 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradley7777
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a great game. It is a mix of three genres; action, horror and first-person shooter. 
 It is one of the best games to hit PS3 and completely p****s over other horror/action/first-person 
 shooters. The Darkness powers are fantastic, one power is the Demon Arm, a razor sharp tentacle 
 which impales enemies and can throw cars about like scalectric cars crashing at high speed. The 
 blood effects are the best I've seen, e. g I told the Darkness to eat someones heart, when it did, 
 the blood splattered up the wall and dripped to the floor. Also when the blood collides with the 
 floor, it conjeals and goes very shiny. You also get quality guns like the Riot Shotgun, AK-47, 
 M16, Spaz-12 and Jackies own customized 45. cals. The switch between New york and WWI and back again 
 is good. There is only one setback and that is because it is too short. If it was longer it would 
 have been the best bloody game I have. Overall summary, a fantastic game and a must buy for horror 
 fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 26, 2007 10:26 am PT
Review:  The question is of course: what are the expactations? This game is created by Starbreeze, the developer 
 of The Chroinicles of Riddick: Escape from Buther Bay (soon be released on X360 and PS3, under 
 the subtitle Assault on Dark Athena) and is made in 1 year. What i've seen on the internet is all 
 positive, and the reviews on Gamespot speek for themselfes (like the perfect 10 scores) . All the 
 footage had great graphics, solid frame rate and a tastfull story. But will it make her expactations 
 true? We can only say that it will be difficult. The only games that did make it true were The 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, Tekken 5 and DTM Race Driver 3. And a lot of them failed. Like Grand 
 Theft Auto: San Andreas, Ninety Nine Nights and God of War II. But what is my expected score? I 
 would say that I think it should get at least a 8.0. I hope this game can make it true, because 
 if not, it belongs in the same row as GTA: San Andreas, NNN and GoW II. We'll see. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PeachieSH2
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 26, 2007 8:34 am PT
Review:  Alrite so I waited a month after the set date which as like the 25 of june, Which is when the xbox 
 360 version of this game. I had been waiting alot longer but Finally getting it was the best thing 
 ever.
  
  The games start off great the whole excution moves with the guns, dual guns, and pretty much kill 
 everything in ur path even with the guns, U make the best out of those guns until u get the darkness. 
 I love the every darkness skill, i didnt really use the one that runs around on the ground, i found 
 that the tentacle and the blackhole were used teh most.
  
  My thoughts On the good:
  Story line was Excellent. The Detail In The stoyr was rather intresting I loved every bit of the 
 story. Graphics were Rather awsome, with the dialogue and what not (hearts) . The darkness powers 
 Were WICKED. the whole game pretty much had me on the edge of the seat.
  
  My thoughts on the bad:
  Very short, I made the mistake of just sitting down and playing it for 
 like ages and finished it pretty much the day after a go it ( i did take breaks) .
  The pointless guns. Darklings A. i were quite annoying. besides Minor things there isnt anything 
 else that i can complain about.
  
  In conclusion, If u are looking into getting the game, id buy it, but i wouldnt spend hours on 
 end playing it because u will finish it and be annoyed at how quick u finish it. Excellent game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iamjustin
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jul 25, 2007 10:47 pm PT
Review:  Soon...
  
  Jackie...
  
  I own you!
  
  The Darkness is a fantastic, beautiful blend of classic mob story telling and intense disturbing 
 fantasy. You are Jackie Estacado, a mob hit man who hasn't been to compliant with his Uncle Paulie, 
 Don of the Franchetti crime family. For some reason him and Jackie ain't getting along to well 
 and he decides to whack you, but, unknown to Paulie, there's a dark force of devastating power 
 waiting to awaken within Jackie's soul. And tonight is the night it's been waiting for, Jackie's 
 21st birthday. The story only gets better as the game progresses and the rest of the presentation 
 is equally and good. The gameplay is solid and introduces some new things to FPS gaming. Mainly 
 the darkness and it's abilities such as impaling foes, devouring their hearts, slithering up on 
 them, summoning demons, and creating black holes. These abilities sound kind of run of the mill 
 but they're really well executed and fun to use. The only bummer about the game is that the darkness 
 isn't brought to its full potential as the darkness could do more. But that's not to say that you 
 feel unsatisfied while playing it, it just leaves you with the desire to see the next addition 
 to the series (which hopefully will exist in the future) . Graphically, The Darkness looks incredible. 
 There are some jagged edges here and there along with some fuzzy textures and the character models 
 could have used some extra detail in some places. But overall, the game is a graphical powerhouse. 
 The textures are incredible and the environments look stunning. The enemies you kill look and animate 
 like real people and the gore factor is just beautifully done. It's almost like you can't get enough 
 of it. The framerate is good, but it does slowdown slightly in some areas. Other than that, the 
 Darkness is one of the best looking games ever made.
  
  Soundwise, the game is very authentic. The voice acting is top-knotch with every character sounding 
 real and lively. The game captures the gangster / mafia feel extremely well with beautiful dialogue 
 and spot on accents. And Mike Patton does the best Darkness anyone could hope for. The music in 
 the game is absolutely some of the best music I've ever heard in a game, besides Resident Evil, 
 and I WILL PERSONALLY GIVE MY LEFT ARM TO FIND THE SOUNDTRACK. The only letdown about the sound 
 is that some of the weapons sound cheesy.
  
  It's very rare that a game can keep one engrossed based solely on its story but the Darkness does 
 just that but it does it with such polish and style that it is easily a classic.
  
  Overall, the darkness is one of the best games ever made and nothing i can say does it justice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sinkinsound
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Its great something like max payne and indigo prophecy (Fahrenheit) its hard the grapic and sound 
 is amazing. i think oblivion and the darkness are the best games until now. dont read the below 
 its useles
  im trying to write 100 words, this is like a school essay wont be accepted if its less than number 
 of words words words words im trying to write 100 words, this is like a school essay wont be accepted 
 if its less than number of words words words words im trying to write 100 words, this is like a 
 school essay wont be accepted if its less than number of words words words words 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Munkey4098
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 8:28 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of the few games out on the PS3 with a compelling story and amazing graphics. 
 The game itself is immersive with fast gunplay and solid graphics. The true gem of this game is 
 the stories. The cutscenes are intriguing and it's one of the few games you won't be skipping the 
 cut scenes in. The single player is amazing from beginning to end. There is nothing really special 
 about the multiplayer but it is fun to pass time in when you play. If you are looking for a game 
 on the PS3 that you could get a great story out of and be immersed in for hours, then look no further 
 than The Darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: azvin
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 23, 2007 6:16 pm PT
Review:  This game was an unplanned purchase. I hadn't been following the game so I came into it only with 
 a brief scan of the Gamespot review. I'm tired so I'll keep my review simple.
  
  Game play - Typical FPS aspects blended in with the darkness powers. The darkness powers overall 
 help to balance off the FPS aspect of the game. Enemies are nothing special and the gun play isn't 
 as fresh as other available games. Story- Good characters used in a plot that keeps you interested. 
 Kind of falls flat at the end.
  
  Graphics- Good graphics and lighting that help immerse you into the story. When in dark areas things 
 are lit up with your darkness . This feature not only helps you know when you're in darkness but 
 also helps the player see what some HDTV's suffer to show... darkness.
  
  Sound- Good effects, music and voice acting. But in todays games seems only the standard.
  
 
  Value- Typical 7 hour main story line. There are phone numbers that you can collect but that probably 
 isn't enough to replay the game through. Could easily be finished as a rental but you could find 
 enough stuff to do if you purchase it.
  
  The Darkness is a good game but unfortunately will be lost in the sea of FPS's. Yes there are better 
 shooters you can buy, but The Darkness does enough different that it is worth a play through. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: esuter54
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 23, 2007 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty sweet. If you like the sound of impaling a cop, throwing his car at him, and 
 then sending a small band of demons around the corner to take care of the rest of them, then this 
 game is for you. Right from the beggining this game has your attention. it takes a little while 
 for the story to make sense, but it is still fun. You can go and do pretty much whatever you want 
 in the levels. The variety of weapons is lacking, but the powers you get make up for that. I recomend 
 this game to anybody reading this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GamingDisgrace
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 22, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  Throughout video game history, there have been many paths, many worthy twists and turns, wacky 
 and juvenile heroes and events, and yes, there have been burnt-out heroes who've embraced 'the 
 darkness' in some respect, whether it be through their personal sarcastic or sadist personality, 
 or altered through other occult means, and the latter, gentlemen and ladies, is just what we have 
 here in Jackie Estacado of the Darkness. Jackie is a skilled and known hitman for the Franchetti 
 Crime family at the young age of 21, and that's where we start, on the eve of this momentous day 
 in Jackie's age. It's a momentous day otherwise, as the list of his birthday presents is as follows: 
 Dual engraved Colt .45's, a hit assigned on his life by his adopted father, Uncle Paulie Franchetti, 
 don of the crime family, and the appearence of an alter ego competing for control of his soul to 
 accomplish his own agenda, made of typical sadistic goals. It's one hell of a birthday bash, and 
 through continuing events, Jackie will find ways to combat the two evils that threaten the innocence 
 of his life, largely represented by lifelong friend Jenny Romano, and there's no doubt that the 
 story quality steps above most video game plots, and nowadays, many Hollywood plots. The question 
 remains, Is the rest of the game worth playing? It's often key in many video games, and The Darkness 
 is no exception, to pace the events of gameplay and story. Estacado proceeds through most of the 
 story with the seamless integration of the 'Darkness' itself often making his general disdain for 
 the human race and innocence and his love of suffering, destruction, and the mocking of his unfortunate 
 host, Jackie. In words, it sounds like any normal villain, but the downright creepy voice manipulation 
 of Mike Patton and the fact that the Darkness experiences and starts to mix into Jackie, a slow 
 stirring of these two personalities, one bad, and one evil. The Darkness' own personality shines 
 through in Jackie's own quest for revenge, cackling and trying to influence Jackie as he tries 
 desperately to destroy the evil branch of the mob Paulie has created. Gameplay sequences are often 
 presented through the discussions between the friends Jackie still has in the mob, consisted mainly 
 of the elderly figures who share a common will with Jackie to return the family to days when they 
 reached to the community as a Robin Hood figure instead of mixing in with the police and reaping 
 the riches of their extortion and thievery, and are represented by genuinely great characters like 
 Jimmy The Grape and your own 'Aunt' Sarah Franchetti. Their voices are not of feeble and weak-minded 
 individuals, but of sharp and experienced people who know the true values of wealth and power, 
 that they are privileges to be shared with those they love and want to protect. The former generation 
 will often guide you and send your younger body to rip out the roots of Paulie's operation through 
 witty discussions, and send you on your way. This is not to say Jackie doesn't have his own personality, 
 as Band of Brothers veteran Kirk Acevedo lends a mature and authentic New York accent to Estacado. 
 The other way the story is really revealed in Jackie's one-sided discussion towards Jenny in loading 
 screens, lending us some of the memories and a piece of Jackie's mind, which cleverly disguises 
 some notably long screens and makes seem Jackie seem like a true character with his own opinions, 
 instead of just a mute tool through which you, the player, completes the game. The story is satisfying, 
 but you don't play the game simply to get to the next discussion or point in the story, the gameplay 
 has it's own merits. As this is the Darkness, a crucial point of the gameplay is to stay in the 
 darkness. Does anyone remember Gears of War, where you could only progress through the bat-infested 
 city by staying in the light? Perhaps the Darkness isn't quite as strict in this regard, but throughout 
 the game, you'll often find yourself hunting for dark places to fester and regenerate the Darkness' 
 strength. There's really no avoiding using the Darkness, and while one could see merit in limiting 
 how much one could use the Darkness, Jackie can really become overwhelmed by gunfire: In harder 
 difficulty options, he cannot withstand even one well-placed burst of automatic weapons fire, so 
 the Darkness will often serve as a needed shield. The balance is a little wonky, as you'll go through 
 from a relative lightweight with a gun to an intimidating juggernaut in the form of the Darkness, 
 being able to take huge amounts of punishment while also having access to the Darkness' own abilities, 
 some of which are just so overly effective, you'll try to restrict yourself from using some of 
 them. You have immediate access to Creeping Dark, where you'll send one of your two headbuddies 
 to squeak along the ground unseen to many unsuspecting enemies and perform a quick neck-crunching 
 execution move, in which you can increase the range by powering the Darkness up. This comes to 
 an entirely different mechanic. How do you level up? You'll kill someone, and upon being within 
 the right range (while also being able to do this with Creeping Dark) , dive right into their chest 
 cavity, retrieve their heart, and eat it right on the stop. Oh yes, it is so good. Your other powers, 
 Demon Arm, in which you can make one of your tentacle-like protusions into a jutting weapon, the 
 Darkness guns, dual pistol-like weapons, the right being an automatic weapon firing bolts of lightning, 
 and the left firing a projectile, that upon hitting it's target, blows open a spacial rend, killing 
 anything within the blast radius. The last power is the Black Hole, and here's where 'totally unfair' 
 enters into the question. While this power does entirely drain you of your power, you will open 
 a Black Hole in which many enemies even in the remote area of you will be sucked in and be thrown 
 around, instantly killed. To add onto your ridiculous arsenal, you'll be able to summon Darklings, 
 foul-mouthed gremlins who can rush in on enemies, open mini-gun fire, be a kamikaze, or seek out 
 light sources and destroy them so that you don't have to. From hitman with gun, to juggernaut. 
 It's fun, but many will probably try to restrain themselves from abusing Black Hole and Creeping 
 Dark to keep the game challenging. The game soldiers on at an unrelenting 50-60 frames per second, 
 but there's really would be no excuse for why there would be lag. No environment is particularly 
 stunning: It's New York City micromanaged into about 8 levels including the subway station, and 
 while characters move naturally, it appears Starbreeze had a change of heart in Jackie's design, 
 especially his face (his design was completely different 6 months ago in trailers) , and many while 
 many character's voices are stunning, the facial recognition is nothing to be impressed by. It's 
 up to standards, but there was no attempt to try to stun the graphical world here, and in a game 
 that really can be beaten in 10 hours, maybe less if you don't bother with any kind of sidequest. 
 The actual character design and level design, really thriving on darkness would really mute any 
 kind of huge graphical advances the game had to offer. C'mon, you've got darklings swearing and 
 pissing on people, what more do you want? Maybe this game isn't a huge jump in graphical standards, 
 but the narrative's quality and the thrill of walking around as Jackie Estacado, general badass 
 could be compared to a lot of comic-book based videogames: Depending on how wrapped up in the characters 
 you become, this game could be worth a quick rent like the Punisher was for me, or it could become 
 a minor obsession depending on how the game hits you. This game's amount of brutality mixed in 
 with the old mob story was enough for me to love this game and pick it apart, collect every collectible 
 and scrap in the game. Go rent it and see if you share the same sentiment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  When you play a First Person Shooter, you'll usually expecting the same thing. But, once you pick 
 up The Darkness , you'll be happy to see something new.
  
  The Darkness is by Starbreeze who brought The Chronicles of Riddick to the Xbox. So, you were probably 
 expecting something good, and oh yes it's good.
  
  You are Jackie Estecado, a guy involved in the Mafia ran by his Uncle Paulie. Jackie's uncle Paulie 
 decides to attempt to kill Jackie on his 21st birthday. Paulie fails and Jackie soon goes for revenge 
 on his Uncle Paulie. But, soon The Darkness breaks out of you, and makes you more powerful than 
 ever before. The Darkness is these two snake-like dark black tentacles that are attached to Jackie's 
 back. The Darkness gives Jackie 4 awesome powers.
  
  The first power is when the Darkness can detach from Jackie's body and slither up walls, on the 
 ground, anywhere, while doing this you can basically stealth kill your enemies. They can't do nothing 
 one the Darkness bites them.
  
  Another cool thing is you can eat your enemies hearts out, which will level up your darkness powers. 
 Then there come the demon arm which you can stab into enemies and pick things up with, usually 
 causing instant death.
  
  The next Darkness power is the darkness guns. These guns are very powerful aswell. To use these 
 you need to feed the Darkness with the Dark. This recharges The Darkness. You will need to do this 
 alot. Most of the game consists of shooting out lights or stabbing out lights with the Demon Arm. 
 But, if The Darkness are in the light to long they will go back in you and not come out for awhile.
 
  
  The final Darkness power and the best is the Black hole. Which sucks your enemies into a black 
 hole. Which instantly causes death. You can also use this to move stuff out of your way.
  
  The game plays like any FPS but you do have weapons in both hands. The aiming is odd. The aiming 
 makes the game a bit to easy, the marker usually just locks on to enemies heads right away. But, 
 the aiming can be bad at some times. It's hard to shoot enemies from far away. The best thing you 
 can so is zoom in a notch which doesn't help all that much.
  
  The Darkness has a very good story. Probably the best in a FPS since Half Life 2. The voice acting 
 is just brilliant. You see Jackie talking about the struggle with The Darkness inside of him while 
 the game loads which is the best load time ever. The guy who plays The Darkness themselves does 
 it awesome. The Darkness is usually mocking Jackie and his life.
  
  The game is a bit short clocking in at 8 hours. It can also get boring wondering around streets 
 or the subway to find where to go. Finding where to go is really annoying at times. Also you are 
 in the subway alot. That's where you find out what to do and go to the streets.
  
  Between leaving the subway you hear Jackie telling you his story which can get annoying. But is 
 still better than a boring blank loading time. The AI are pretty good, they are pretty hard to 
 kill and try to take cover and kill you.
  
  The game looks very good, not the best but still wha you expect from a PS3 game. The characters 
 animations and movements are really good. The environment looks impressive. All of the different 
 settings look great aswell. The game looks pretty impressive overall. The game is short and after 
 you beat it you are expecting awesome online play to fall back on then you are screwed. The online 
 play in the game is very laggy and makes it almost unplayable. They shouldn't have even included 
 this in the game.
  
  So this game is a must have if your a fan of the First Person Genre. Offering amazing gameplay 
 and something new to the genre itself. The Darkness is a must-have game for gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NOLABREES
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 21, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  I just rented this game from BB and all I can say is WOW!!!! It's one of the best games I played 
 in a very long time. I will be buying this game in the next few days and suggest anyone that is 
 into these kind of games to buy it. You will not be disappointed trust me. I played it on the PS3 
 console as well as the X-Box and must say both of them are equal. The developers of The Darkness 
 made sure that each Console was great in their on way. The graphics are killer, the story is amazing 
 and I will say this is one game that I can't stop playing. So with that said I'm gonna get of this 
 website now and get back to playing some hardcore Darkness!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2007 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Hi everyone, well this review will be on the Darkness, at first the games name looks pretty cool, and 
 the game itself is not bad either, but well how should i put this, the game is not ultimate because 
 its low on graphics, its only 720p resolution, i would like it, if it was 1080p now thats what i call 
 a game, Now i heard alot of comments about the game and its mistakes, at first i didnt believe it, but 
 then i saw, like for ex. the enemy sometimes doesnt move allright, and the demons that you will summon 
 in the game also get stuck in stupid situations. Well but if youre not interested in everything 
 all that, and you love some blood shooting game, then its your game, there will be lots of carnage, you 
 can shoot, or use your demon powers, like those creatures on your back, you can use in the game called 
 demon arm, you can lift large and heavy things like cars, different boxes, and much more as well as 
 people too, youre gonna love it, if youre looking for that kind of game, So good luck on playing it, see 
 ya in the playstation network =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3Champ
Rating: 5.1
Date: Jul 20, 2007 8:00 pm PT
Review:  This game can be very fun once the action starts but I found that the confusing controls and gameplay 
 kind of ruin the game. For instance in most games you press R1 to fire, right? In this game you 
 have to press R2 to fire your right weapon and L2 to fire the right. This ends up wasting a lot 
 of ammo over time due to bumping the R2 and L2 buttons. The R1 and L1 buttons control your darkness 
 powers and half the time don't work until after you press it a few times. In other areas of the 
 game the gameplay is just plain confusing. For example at times you find your self at a dead end 
 and end up moving in circles for sometimes an hour. Dispite all the bad things in this game there 
 are few momements in this game that are actually quite fun. One being the battles. When the awesome 
 music starts and you engage in a gun fight its a thriller. Another good aspect in this game is 
 multiplayer! The multiplayer is the aspect that makes this game good. There are many powerups to 
 obtain and tons of weapons to wield. The multiplayer is very fun and engaging with tons of possibilties 
 and gun fights that will keep you on the edge of your seat. Over all I was expecting this game 
 to be much better and I am vey disappointed with it. The violence also turns me off. I don't mind 
 the kind in Resistance: Fall of Man but this is just nasty and doesen't need to be in the game. 
 Same with every cut sene and battle having the F word in it along with every other suare. I also 
 hate the references to the devil and evil. Its just freaky, bloody, and nasty. Don't get this game 
 unless your into that kind of stuff. Good thing i just rented it!=) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bloodzombie77
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 18, 2007 11:17 pm PT
Review:  I played this game knowing nothing of the existence of a comic book of which this is based on, 
 so thankfully, I was able to make an unbiased review without resorting to comic-book fanboyism.
 
  
  Overall, this game was good while it lasted, but like the Gamespot review said, you will feel like 
 you covered a lot of ground in not a lot of time. The story and acting was top-notch, nothing I'd 
 usually expect in an FPS, but this one is a little more story-driven, and a lot of battle implements 
 were useless and felt tacked on.
  
  One thing that turned me off a little was the gun battles, pretty much run-and-gun, they had an 
 interesting execution move for each weapon if you could get close to an enemy and hit the trigger 
 button, but given that enemy AI was pretty smart, you'd get blown away if you tried to run up to 
 somebody and do that in the heat of battle. And the conventional weapons were bland and lacking 
 in originality.
  
  And as for the Darkness serpents and the Darkling summoning, almost completely useless. The only 
 Darkness powers that were useful were the Darkness guns and the Black Hole, and the Darkness guns 
 drained darkness power, which is the power that keeps you from dying after getting shot more than 
 3 times. The darklings were next to useless, I'd usually just sacrifice one to draw an enemy out, 
 and the Darkling AI bordered on 100% stupid.
  
  Basically, if your up for a great story tacked onto semi-decent gameplay, rent this game, don't 
 recommend buying it given you could rent it and be done with it in 3 days or less. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vanillagorillap
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 18, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a nicely immersing, story driven, first person shooter. You start out as Jackie 
 Estacado , a low level mobster who does dirty work for his boss Uncle Paulie. The Darkness shows 
 its cinematic presentation right off the start, opening with you escaping from the police after 
 a failed hit attempt . The game continues on from there and you eventually discover your darkness 
 powers . There are 4 powers you unlock which let you do everything from sneak up and kill people 
 , unlock doors, pick up objects , and eventually create a very cool looking black hole. These powers 
 will help you tremendously throughout the game, but you'll have to be in the darkness in order 
 to use them effectively , which means your gonna be shooting out lights, alot of lights. This isn't 
 a huge problem but can be a little irritating if you are in a hectic gun battle. Other than your 
 darkness powers you can summon darklings. There are 4 types of darklings from ones that melee your 
 enemies to shootings out lights, to carrying a chain gun, or kamakazying into enemies. While cool, 
 the darklings arent particularly effective. The gunner often will shoot you , the kamikaze might 
 blow you up, or the light killer will miss a bunch of lights. Other than your darkness powers and 
 darklings The Darkness has pretty standard fps weapons and controls. (handguns, shotguns, machine 
 guns etc.) The graphics in the Darkness are pretty good, but with some flaws. The textures are 
 really good in this game and the amount of detail is very nice. The lighting as you expect is equally 
 good. There are a few noticeable differences between the 360 and ps3 versions (i have played both) . 
 The biggest difference between the two versions immediately is the lack of motion blur on the ps3 
 version . Also on the ps3 version the framerate dips a but more than on the 360. *it is noted that 
 motion blur can hide some framerate drops* These graphic issues are pretty minor unless your really 
 picky and neither version will disappoint graphically. The sound in The Darkness is fantastic. 
 The voices on the characters are done especially well . The voices were also done with simalntaneous 
 motion capture to make each character believable when they speak. The other sounds and music also 
 fit the game as well, with the in-game music supplementing the action nicely. The biggest gripe 
 i have with this game is the multi player. It feels really tacked on and is really laggy even if 
 you have a great connection. I found the multiplayer to be really fun and original since you can 
 change into a darkling at anytime and climb on walls then turn back into a human, but the lag really 
 ruins it. Both versions exhibit equally bad lag . Overall the Darkness is a good game with a great 
 story . The single player will keep you busy for 10 to 12 hours maybe more or less depending on 
 how many side missions you do, and if you can put up with the lag the multiplayer can be a fun 
 addition . Give this game a rent and play through the single player ... it doesnt have enough value 
 in my opinion to warrant a purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corysterling
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:51 am PT
Review:  I'm sure most of you know the story behind the main plot, so I won't be expanding on that.
  
  At first glance this game looked like the adults game to get. I did. I was a little frustrated 
 after I gained my Darkness powers, as the controls were a little under-explained. After getting 
 a hold on the controls, the game REALLY began for me. I was floored. The soundtrack, voice-acting, 
 and story are absolutley FLAWLESS. My only gripe is maybe the movement speed. You really do feel 
 quite sluggish wandering around the somewhat-large gaming eviroment.
  
  Other than that... I really recommend this be a Buy game. A great addition to a collection of great 
 games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterMarcus
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 15, 2007 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Pros: fluid gameplay mechanics; atmospherics; lighting &amp; vivid coloring; demon heads &amp; 
 related attacks; storyline; voice overs.
  Cons: great action sequences are too sparsed; lack of enemy variety; AI moves a tad slow.
  
 
  The Darkness took some players by surprise lately, offering an ultra polished campaign not being 
 your average brainless FPS ( among other things, some doorways require a little intuitive use of 
 a specific move/attack ) . The scenario reminisces a lot dark mob movies webbed in decayed urban 
 theatrics, here in Manhattan + Lower East Side. The main character, Jackie Estacado, is on the 
 eve of his 21st birthday which also herald the arrival of his dreaded curse, the Darkness. Following 
 the impressive intro movie ( a frantic car chase in a tunnel ) , the player must act as Jackie along 
 a linear albeit decent layout, overflowed by a vivid texturing enhancing the crisp environments.
 
  
  The whole single player is split between the New York levels and ''Hell'' ( here a WW One reconstruct 
 where Jackie meets his grand grand father, slowly spoiling some details about the origins of the 
 curse ) . The player must essentially learn to use Darkness powers alongside standard weaponry, 
 depending of the lighting situations since you must recharge in the dark. Stay in the dark, shoot 
 and cover, destroy a few lights in the vicinity: here are some basic guidelines always useful for 
 an easier walkthrough. Before long, in fact just past mid way, all the four different Darkness 
 powers become available once the last is acquired - the Black Hole, making the rest too easy if 
 overused. Although the gameplay itself fits incredibly well the cool semi-realistic, semi-cartoonish 
 feeling rendered by the vistas and characters, there are a couple of nitpicks to consider. First, 
 by being a bit overpowered this Black Hole thingie brings an unbalancing act to the later stages 
 of the game, just as its (too) quick acquisition. In the official Gamespot guide, carefully quoted 
 here, '' Black Holing is essentially like using a cheat code''.......... However the 3 other powers 
 are occasionally required, and remain always meaningful to see. Some of the hardest fights roomed 
 in the first tier or so, perhaps with the exception of the excellent church encounter against the 
 corrupted Captain Shrote and his goons - which still demand some learning curve even with said 
 power. A little unusual yet quick way to finish the second Hell level just before being teleported 
 back to New York also urge the player to solve a little semi-puzzle. Secondly, those fights themselves 
 remain too distant to sustain a cohesive action playground. For that matter, it seems the developers 
 followed a popular pattern nowadays in action games/FPSs, i. e. intense fights separated by long 
 walks-in-the-park. On the other hand, this may serve the questionable goal of making the game less 
 action oriented and more of a semi-interactive, semi-spectator movie like experience. Questionable 
 because some may surely want more action, yet the studio did a very professional job to deliver 
 a good story at the same time, by the implement of numerous cut scenes and dialogues.
  
  That said, the Sixaxis controller responds flawlessly to any move coded to complete the game, without 
 any clipping issue whatsoever. You can evidently put more an emphasis with the guns instead of 
 Darkness powers, or vice versa, and still be at ease to progress equally. It's not that some of 
 them become too cosmetic, or futile; most of their unusefulness rely more about the stylished theme 
 imprinted by the developers, perhaps mixed with some AI soldiers/policemen acting slow at first. 
 You really have only one big ghoulish creature to beat in ''Hell 2''............
  
  The package comes with extra content, namely pictures of sketches and designs, and some additional 
 may of course be unlocked during the gameplay as you collect some easy-to-spot letters.
  
  Completing a dazzling coloring, the graphical construct strikes beautifully with heavy contrasts. 
 Moreover, they just did the artistry to be fully used WITHOUT being over saturated. That is a technical 
 exploit: subway stations, streets, buildings painted with lots of graffitis, even some hellish 
 scenery are all vivid. Too bad, however, when you face very up close any wall or static construct: 
 the textures become ugly, real ugly &agrave; la 1999. Other than that, particularly in the midst 
 of the action, the global viewpoint deliver a fair amount of what the PS3 can offer ( yet we feel 
 the beast can disgorge much more texturing than that in future offerings ) . Blue and red hues are 
 magnificent.
  
  Now the 5.1 audio coding = a marvelous concerto to the ears of any scrupulous home theater gamer, 
 adding the heavy use of surrounds. Just circle during heavy brawling or dialogue for a clever channel 
 separation. Dialogues are clean; the various soundings pop in to the point. The only noticeable 
 flaw concerns the music, often indistinct.
  
  The Darkness is an enjoyable thrill in the streets of New York for a 2 thirds, and a hellish WW 
 One for a third. The multiplayer can be laggy at times, so once the single player is done with, 
 perhaps twice, there's little value left if your long term expectations were very high for this 
 game. It remains a surefire recommended purchase nonetheless. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GrimGravy
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 15, 2007 12:47 pm PT
Review:  First off i will just say this i do really like this game, the feeling the mood it just really 
 works. The darkness mechanics are very cool seriously (Demon arm) . next we got graphics and well 
 this game sure is purdy. There was defiantly some moments where i had to stop and just well go 
 damn that looks nice. This game also had it parts where you took a break form the constant slaughter 
 and devouring of hearts which i will admit i enjoyed alot, and the tv sets located throughout the 
 game was awesome i got this nostalgic rush that brought me back to playing Max Payne 6 years ago. 
 Now to get into the nitty gritty because this game was not perfect. I kinda wish the map was bigger 
 it kinda felt a little small to me, and the biggest issue was multi-player my god this felt soooo 
 tacked on. one word for this LAAAG was ridiculous. In the in though play this game for the single 
 player it great but stay off the online because it is not. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ballto316
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 12, 2007 12:56 pm PT
Review:  I remember the night of my 21st birthday... that was the first time that I died. This opening line 
 in 2K's new first firstperson shooting game The Darkness helps to sink the player into the mood 
 for the game they are about to enjoy, that's right, enjoy! Based on the comics published by Top 
 Cow, we now have a game to the comic book series The Darkness . If you have heard about this game 
 before, it's pretty much what you have expected it to be from either seeing trailers, commercials, 
 or anything of the sort. A new Gritty first person shooting game, that will help feed the dark 
 side inside all of us. Playing the hero in a game is getting the point now a days where it's almost 
 dull. And while you do play a hero in a sense in the Darkness, he's the kind of hero that most 
 people love to play, the Chaotic-Neutral kind. Doing all the bad things for the right reason, not 
 only adds a realistic touch to games, but it also makes for some very enjoyable gameplay. In the 
 Darkness, you take on the role of Jackie Estacado, orphan child, turned Mafia Enforcer thanks to 
 his dear old uncle Paulie, but this is only the beginning for Jackie, as on the evening of his 
 21st birthday, his life is taken over, by an entity known only as the Darkness . Unfortunately 
 that is all that I can tell you about the game without revealing the storyline so now I'm going 
 to have to jump to the gameplay. There are lots of differant reasons why I enjoyed playing this 
 game. A dark sadistic touch, the fast-paced gameplay, the attention to detail, the realism added 
 to it. But right now I will start off by mentioning the word Style. Unique in it's own sense, The 
 Darkness is still at it's core a first person shooting game, which is something that we have all 
 seen. Though partly thanks to the power of the next generation console, they were able to open 
 some doors that couldn't be opened in the past. Visually the game of course looks amazing. What 
 I loved personaly about this, was how everything looked so real, yet still held a droplet of the 
 illusion that yes this is still a game. The bright lights, the highly detailed faces, and even 
 seen in the movement of people. Help to remind me that this game was at one point still a comic 
 book, but does it in a subtle way so that it's not overpowered by the other visual effects that 
 you will see and notice. The talk of style can mean alot of differant things to people now a days, 
 to me, what it means is the ability to stand out, and while the pure gameplay is nothing new, it's 
 everything else in this game that makes it stand out. it's fast=paced, but still leaves you enough 
 time to sit back and enjoy the havoc that you have created. Everything that you do seems to hold 
 it's own style of doing it, that is of course ranging from your variety of choices when it comes 
 to taking out the people who stand in front of you, all the way to the up close and very personal 
 executions that you can perform. I know that in a game where you play a character who controls 
 the darkness it's self, it's hard to think that I would comment on something like realism in a 
 game, but you can see it as clear as night (not day as I will comment on soon enough) when you 
 play it that special attention was given to this in the game. The first and most obvious showing 
 of this will be the use of two single handed weapons in the game, this being the pistols, and the 
 Sub-machine guns. While this is something that is pretty much a standard now a days, they do something 
 interesting with it, where the fact that one gun is in your left and one gun is in your right, 
 actually matters. This is shown most clearly with each weapon having it's own set of ammo, but 
 with being able to shoot one gun or the other, depending on which trigger button you press. Now 
 I know that alot of people are still saying that's not so new, however what does add to this is 
 the fact that left gun aims alittle more to the left, and the right gun aims alittle to the right. 
 Now what visually adds to the style of this, is that while normaly the crosshair (just a red dot 
 in this game) usualy has both the left and right one in the center over each other. If that particular 
 arm is obstructed, be it by a wall, a barrel or anything. Then the crosshair for that hand moves 
 out of the center and as close as it can. This is shown to you visually by the arm moving out of 
 the neutral central position and moved to something to accommodate this, like holding the gun sideways 
 or other things like that. The game is all about style. Now that i'm done my rant about style and 
 all the little details that make the game great, I'm gonna jump to the actual gameplay! I know 
 i've been avoiding it and babbling on and I'm sorry for that but now we get to the important part! 
 The core gameplay for the Darkness is nothing out of the ordinary, and for the most part it's your 
 basic FPS (first Person Shooting) game. Alot of time will be spend ramboing yourself through levels, 
 and enjoying your slaughter-fest like it was a painting that you just made. But there are things 
 in the gameplay that are very interesting. The Darkness and your Darkness powers are one of them. 
 Aside from your normal shooting Jackie is granted early on in the game the power of The Darkness, 
 which will mean different things as you advance in the game. Your first power granted is being 
 able to summon your Maw Tentacles . Your Maw tentacles are the snake looking things that you have 
 seen in the games previews. These alone (without using their inate ability) do serve a few purposes. 
 First off, you will not be able to use any of your darkness powers unless they are summoned. Second, 
 the markings on the tentacles show how much darkness you have left to use for your powers. Third, 
 you will not be able to absorb darkness unless they are released. And fourth they need to be out 
 in-order to devour Hearts (that's right devour your dead foes heart) . These creatures really do 
 have a life of their own, as they are able to be seen on the screen as you play the game and have 
 them summoned. This is seen just by their natural sway around jackies body, their facial reactions, 
 and all the Morbidly humors things that they will do. Without going into a deep (and long!) explanation 
 on all of your powers, that is the basics of it. One other comment on your basic gameplay that 
 I must make is the fact that the game is based around your character working from the shadows . 
 This is because using all of your darkness powers will absorb darkness, and your darkness powers 
 will actualy be drained if you stand in the light. Whether it's the light from the street lamps, 
 or just plain sunlight, you will want to avoid it if you want to get anywhere in the game. So with 
 that thought in mind you will be spending alot of time just shooting lights so that you can press 
 forward with no concerns about your darkness powers. And you get to see your lovely little pets 
 do a very cool looking draining effect when you stand in the shadows. Summary The game is pretty 
 good, and great for visual effects, and even includes an online multiplayer mode for you to toy 
 around with after your done the main game. Unfortunitly I havn't got a chance yet to try the online 
 mode, so I can't say much about it (if someone does get a chance to play it, please send me a PM 
 to tell me what it's like) . The story line is cool, and pressed forward usualy durring the loading 
 time! (best idea ever) And is done by showing Jackie in a monolog talking about the current event, 
 and the best part is that he does this durring the loading times. Over-all, I would say that it's 
 a good rent, and if you enjoy the online mode it would be a decent buy. I myself only rented it 
 and will be taking it back when i'm finished this review. But all in all, it's a fun game to play, 
 and give syou a good reason to check out the comics. ^_~ The Numbers Gameplay:3.5/5 - Nothing new, 
 but done with alot of style. Graphics: 4/5 - Great Lighting, lots of constantly changing visuals 
 to look at, Next-gen quality graphics Sound:3/5 -The music is decent, Sound effects are above average 
 Playtime: 5-15 hours Casual gameplay -This of course depends on how many of the 100 unlockables 
 you want to find Rent it or Buy it: Rent it -If you want to just play it it's a good rent, if you 
 want to mater it, it's a good buy Learning Curve: 10-30 minutes -If you play alot of FPS the only 
 learning curve there is islearning how to use the darkness. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cyrus151
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:33 pm PT
Review:  amazing story, loved the sound and picture is smooth... for 60 with all the extra content its a 
 solid game! the graffiti is a hit too... stuck in a world of sadness and innovative story...2k games 
 did a good job... the sound truly does a nice job keeping you in on the action and getting you deeply 
 evolved with the character... jackie the main character makes the experience more enjoyable because 
 he is someone of curiosity and style... i wish i had his black leather jacket cause he seems like 
 a bad a$$ kind of dude with it on. but when u look at it as a whole i believe that darkness is 
 a solid game cause its a type of game we really havent seen and sets it apart from most other horror 
 kind of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn08
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 11, 2007 10:13 pm PT
Review:  You start out in the action. In the back seat of a car with some fellow mob members. Your out to 
 make a hit. But somethings wrong... The dirty cops youve known to love are comming at you. Your 
 Uncle Paulie has had a few ideas about you lately and they arent good. Not only does this begin 
 in the action, but on your 21st birthday as well. Following the original comic, your family has 
 been cursed by this demon like creature the darkness. It manifests itself as 2 snake like creatures 
 comming out of your shoulders as well as the cute loveable darklings. As in the comic the darkness 
 host would be able to manifest the darkness on his 21st birthday. The game progresses nicely as 
 you get wrapped up in the plot. Every heart you consume increases your darkness's powers and creates 
 new ones. This creates a fun and unique gameplay setting. A few sidequest also add to this nicely 
 sized game. Youll also be equiped with guns as well (as if you need em) . Some people say the replay 
 value is terrible and is easy as pie on normal. However I disagree. IT IS EASY on normal but thats 
 why they call it normal (ha why would they call easy easy?) but hard creates a whole new type of 
 game where the AI is sharp and actually not as retarded as the normal AI. You may have also heard 
 that the online play seems thrown in. Which I will agree it is. However online it feals like a 
 whole new world. If your a fan of ourney style games (fast paced with fast kills and instant respawns) 
 then the game is right for you. The online action is nothing like the game but is definetly fun 
 at the right times. Especially with the types of gameplay they have (very unique i must say) I 
 do however wish the online play was expanded world wide because as of now the game lacks many players 
 or at least players who want to play a game type desides team or regualar deathmatch because i 
 really do enjoy they other gametypes they just need some players. All in all its a great game with 
 a so-so online play but a nice replay value. The plot will keep you wrapped up very nicely and 
 have you wanting to continue to play until the very end. And besides eating hearts, throwing cars, 
 taking down choppers, and massacring other mob members is just down right awsome and will leave 
 you fealing very happy. Pick up the darkness and I bet youll Have a great time! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: priest79
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 11, 2007 1:15 am PT
Review:  I am usually into 3rd person shooters rather then first person, but the storyline kept me interested 
 throughout the entire game.. hoping for a sequel... A must have. for fans of the comic book as 
 well as new comers. A little short is my only complaint. But I really enjoyed the darkness powers, 
 they never get old. Just go out buy it and you will have a blast. trust me you will not be dissapointed. 
 If your are then I do not know what to tell you go play Wii sports or some other lame kiddie crap. 
 Next I lok forward to C. O. D. 4 which is gonna be really sick. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: flava2007
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 9, 2007 12:18 pm PT
Review:  This has to be one of the most detailed, and most well planned games i have played in a while. 
 i just finished it lastnight and was very satisfied. I dont get addicted to games often or at all 
 for that matter. One simple thing can turn me off of a game for example voice over acting, lame 
 motion capture, lame game details. The fact that when i looked down i could see his feet and his 
 jacket swaying.. while walking, i knew i was dealing with a thought through product, most 1st person 
 shooters leave this out.. characters have no feet? so basically yu are just floating? very random. lol..
 
  
  They captured NY amazingly, grunge, colors, lighting, sounds, AWESOME..
  i cant imagine what Resident Evil and Silent hill will look like.. I CANT WAIT! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaroStrile
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:05 pm PT
Review:  This game had me going from the minute it threw you into a car chase and you had no idea what was 
 going on. Although, you did know that you were a member of the mafia. It turns out your adopted 
 uncle, Uncle Paulie , sent out a hit on you for being a young kid who thinks for himself. When 
 your girlfriend, Jenny, gets her brain blown out in the beginning, Jackie, (you) commits suicide 
 in pain of losing Jenny. But he soon learns that he can't die. The Darkness keeps him alive in 
 a World War I-type area, that turns out to be the Darkness' mind. This game has an incredibly immersive 
 story which keeps you going throughout the entire game.
  
  Gameplay: Fairly standard besides the fact that you can use the Darkness powers which include Darkness 
 guns, Black Hole, Demon Arm, and one that allows you to crawl using the darkness that you see at 
 the side of your screen. The guns are completely standard, which made me a bit disappointed. I 
 ended up using the pistol for the majority of the game.
  
  Graphics: Really good. However not up to Gears of War quality, very solid, and shows off what the 
 PS3 standard should be, if not higher. The different textures of the surroundings should be a standard 
 of all gaming.
  
  Sound: Incredible voice-acting, I was in awe at how much they did in this game, and I couldn't 
 believe that it was possible to put so much into a game. Plus, hearing two enemies talk about my 
 location was a bit of a surprise. One enemy said, I can't see him anymore! while the other responded 
 with, Me neither. 
  
  Value: This game is well-made and will keep even the most demanding gamer entertained for a couple 
 run-throughs. A reason to play this game is to figure out if there is an alternate ending. At the 
 very end, the Darkness urges you to kill Paulie while Paulie begs for you to spare his life, making 
 me wonder if I made the right choice by killing him and allowing the Darkness to take over my body.
 
  
  Overall: This game is solid, and very well made. I only rented it, but I would be willing to buy 
 it to get more of an idea of what happens in the game if you don't kill Paulie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrdnerd
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 9:36 pm PT
Review:  I haven't read the Darkness in sometime. I used to collect the books back in the day (still have 
 the first issue) but when I fell out of American comics this series followed. When they announced 
 a game based on The Darkness I have to say I really had my doubts. Sometimes you have to give the 
 benefit of the doubt...
  
  The Good: The first great thing about the The Darkness game is the story. It is brilliant! It's 
 co-written by Paul Jenkins who also did a run on the comic (and he also wrote other comics like 
 The Hulk, Origin and did a excellent job on the game Twisted Metal Black) . His dialog is spot on, 
 although it can be considered mafia sterotype, I loved it from beginning to end. I hated and loved 
 the characters and I felt like I was actually playing a movie adaptation of the comic (which Top 
 Cow should consider) . The voice acting did a great job of bringing Jenkins script to life. The 
 characters were not to over the top and the darkness voice really set the mood. The music was also 
 very good, fitting the situations well. The graphics were excellent with plenty of detail around 
 every corner. The Darkness powers worked well and never got to boring to use.
  
  The Bad: Although I did like walking around the New York streets and alley ways I still felt that 
 the enviroments could have been more open. Not GTA open but a bit more places that you could visit 
 and explore. Which is funny because I still got lost once and awhile, sometimes not quite sure 
 of were my next objective was. The AI was a bit slow witted as well, sometimes they would just 
 stand in front of you waiting to get blasted. Although I understand that staying in the dark is 
 important to survival I did find it quite annoying having to destroy light after light to stay 
 in the shadows. The creeper power that you possess through the course of the game was a great idea 
 but once you start crawling on ceilings and walls things got frustrating. The Ugly: Eating hearts 
 was strangely amusing...
  
  Final: Playing The Darkness was surprisely really fun and if you like lots of violents, tons of 
 swearing, great story and eating hearts you might just enjoy it too. Just make sure to turn off 
 the lights... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CoolGuy6654
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a game that makes you rethink what you thought about comics books. In The Darkness 
 you play as adopted child The don of the Franchetti Crime Family. In the time you spend with Uncle 
 Paulie you become his hit man. Uncle Paulie gets mad at you when you start to think that he is 
 straying from the old way to deal. Jackie Estacado you wakes up on his 21st birthday in the back 
 of a speeding convertible when the job you were doing for Paulie goes wrong. Not far into the game 
 you get possessed by The Darkness which is two tentacle like things on your back that get their 
 power from where else The Darkness so most of the game you will be running around shooting out 
 lights so your powers will work. The game takes place in New York and The Otherworld . In my opinion 
 walking around in New York is very very overpowering and you can get lost easily. Even know The 
 world of New York looks open-ended it is very linear. In my opinion The Darkness is a game that 
 should not be missed by anyone 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CraigJK
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 8, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  The amasing story, graphics, and gameplayt in the Darkness makes up for the possibilty to be beaten 
 in a few hours. The Darkness really suprised me. Yeah, It's a shot game, but It's absolutely great. 
 You play as Jackie Estacado, a guy who's just turned 21, and is now a host for The Darkness. The 
 game plays as an average FPS at best, unti you get to use you darkness abilities. When you are 
 standing in the darkness, you gain power, to use you shield, penetrate enemies with a tentacle, 
 create black holes, sneak up on enemies with a single tentacle, summon creatures, and use some 
 guns that use the darkness as ammo. As soon as you step in light, your power is drained, so you 
 need to shoot out lights or be careful where you decide to fight. The game has a great storyline, 
 and the graphics and sound is nothing less than amasing. It's too bad it only lasts a few hours.
 
  
  Do yourself a favor and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ctndf
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 7, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is based on a comic book series which is now turned into a next gen game for the PS3. 
 You play Jackie Estacado, a just turned 21 year old, which on his birthday just has been betrayed 
 by this Uncle Paulie. All of a sudden you get these darkness powers and Jackie must now fight his 
 way up
  through the family chain which who are all mafia associated to kill and get revenge on his uncle. 
 The Darkness created by Starbreeze which also made The Chronicles of Riddick, took the innovative 
 style of gameplay and put it in the Darkness game. The Darkness had some good positive notes when 
 you play the game. The 1st is that you get you Darkness powers, in the start of the level you get 
 one out three Darkness powers and as you progress through the game you unlock darkness powers. 
 Darklings also come in play in this game, if Jackie is stuck in a place or need to figure out a 
 puzzle you send a darkling to do your dirty deeds, also like the Darkness power you unlock other 
 darklings through-out the game, there is a total of four darklings.
  Other positive things about this game is that the plot is straight to the point and instead of 
 a narrator you see in the cut scenes of every mission you completed Jackie is telling you the story. 
 Have fun side missions you can do like picking up 5 nickels as fast as you can, before the train 
 hits you. So basically those are your positives, but there are major flaws in the game.
  *Graphics are awesome, especially if you have an HD TV.
  There are so many flaws with The Darkness 
 im giving you a list and a little fact of each mishap. (Top 10 flaws)
  #1 Loading Times- takes a while to load, and starbreeze said loading times would be faster
  #2 
 Repeated Cut scenes-when you go back to the subway it always does a cut scene of Jackie, and it 
 pisses me off that it repeats couple times when you leave the subway or go back..
  #3 Shoot all the lights- Sucks to shoot all the lights, so your darkness could have more power, 
 which means wasting ammo.
  #4 Cities are not crowded- When you go to a part of New York its supposed to be crowed, wait the 
 real New York is crowded.
  #5 No multiplayer- its only multiplayer on the online part
  #6 Online is crap- Bad environments, there is nothing much to do.
  #7 Only 8-10 hour game- meaning 
 I beat it in 8 hours in hard mode, and easy mode you'll beat it in less than 8 hours.
  #8 AI sucks- The enemies don't take cover, and just stand there; they don't move or follow you 
 to shoot you.
  #9 Could have more weapons- Only 6 weapons, could had more.
  #10 Walk faster- Jackie looks like he is walking slow as a turtle, and could a bit more faster.
 
  So to sum everything up, I think The Darkness a good game and innovative and you get unlockables 
 and achievements. But for me its 50-50 its good but then its bad. But I know its worth playing, 
 and buy or rent.
  
  This game has its ups and downs, but at the end it comes down to if this review makes its a potential 
 buy and just a mediocre rent at your local video store, for gamers out there.
  *Exaggerated Hype!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bahamut450
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  The darkness is a game that follows the events Jackie Estacado's life during and after his twenty 
 first birthday he is a mob hitman that him and his two buddy's failed a collection of money and 
 now are on the kill list of his uncle Paulie the game play is all about staying in cover and in 
 the shadows without the darkness manifested you can take only a few bullets but when it is you 
 are able to take a few more the gameplay is fun but the AI can be a little dim witted compared 
 to some other games the game looks very good but the small details can look a little bad. the soundtrack 
 is very good with hard guitars and hard music when in fights and soft music when thinking of the 
 softer side of the story, the story is very different from the comics in how events happen as how 
 Jackie first obtains the darkness and other elements. although it is different it is still very 
 good and keeps many of the key points the weaponry is not very adverse and quiet unbalanced you 
 will find your self using pistols more than any other weapon although some people say the controls 
 are loose i think they were fine. over all the darkness is a game which is very good with telling 
 a story and innovative with some features although a little short i recommend to many 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  You play as Jackie, that works with the maffia as a hitman and on your 21st birthday you end up 
 getting double crossed by your boss. And you end up obtaining a power called the darkness. You 
 have no ideal why you got this power and you have to find out all the how, what, and whys. The 
 story is really good it fits the game and it has great ending that all comes together. Now on to 
 the game play
  GOOD THINGS: The game does a great job of having the maffia and the super hero thing all tie in 
 together, it may sound weird, but they fit it together real well. The game is a great first person 
 shooter and you can have a lot of fun with the action. You will fall in love with the darkness 
 powers , you will use them a lot in the game and its a really cool concept since you can only use 
 the power in the dark. The game also has some really amazing graphics, the characters look good 
 and the movement and action of them looks very real and the environments look great. There are 
 some awesome lighting effects. It all comes together really good. Sound effects are good also, 
 the gun fire sounds real and the music fits the comabt and the voice acting is also very good. 
 You will get the fill of watching a movie with mystery and horror. BAD THINGS: It would have been 
 nice if it would have had a two player split screen coop so you could play with your friend. Sometimes 
 it is really easy to get lost and even get confused. YOu can beat the game in 3-4 days. Only 5 
 or so chapters, not many. OVERALL: With a few small problems, but still it turns out to be a very 
 great game and it is worth the money in my opinion . If you are looking for a game that has great 
 action and good story and fun to play. This is it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 5, 2007 11:39 am PT
Review:  When I purchased this game I had the opportunity to buy Ninja Gaiden Sigma and Rainbow six Vegas. 
 All three came out with in a week of each other. This was a great game but at the end of the review 
 you will understand why I am going to sell it for Ninja Gaiden or Vegas.
  
  Gameplay: It really pulls you in, as you progress through the game you gain powers from this demon 
 thats pretty much using you as a host. One thing I didn't like but at the same time made the game 
 feel real was my lack of moment speed and jump. Its not running or super jumping metroid kinda 
 speed its very humanistic. Through the game you've get to have duel pistols (my fav) rifle, shotgun 
 (riot gun) , demon guns (really suck to be honest) , old war rifles, and a machine gun. The pistols 
 felt the most natural to use and had the coolest kill scenes for up close kills. As you move on 
 through the game the darkness actually acks like a shield so if light or bullits take it off of 
 you, it will leave you vulnerable to be killed. However, depending on where you die has a different 
 death continue scene which was neat and creep.
  
  During loads screens it had footage of Jackie. Some were cool ( the ones relating to story) and 
 some where down right gay or stupid (random shots of junk) One example is where is he talking about 
 being scared in the subway isn't nothing. Just plain dumb. But I understand the writers are trying 
 to get you to feel this guys personality like he's your friend. And its done nicely. Story: Starts 
 out nice and smooth and then consumes you. Hearing the demon voices (wasn't expecting it) in surround 
 in loud spooked the shet out of me too. Before you know it, your consumed with these demonic snakes. 
 Having to stay in darkness to keep them alive, since they are beneficial and make the game to easy 
 at times. Especially the last attack you gain called the black hole. It destroyes everything on 
 screen near by. And enemies not killed by are stunned because they are trying to hold on for dear 
 life, Opening up an opportunity to shoot them as well. Though the black hole pulls ur darkness 
 away draining it, leaving you killable at times. So its still tricky. I loved the story.
  
  Narrative: The voice acting was some of the best of heard in a game period. Dunno if thats a good 
 or bad thing though. BUT I could not stand hearing Mother Fu* ( and GD left and right. I can do 
 without huge amounts of fowl language. Everytime I heard GD I just wanted to turn it off. But hey 
 I bout it and wanted to finish the story. Which by the way for a story so good, it had a shallow 
 ending.
  
  Graphics: Ha jaggie but nice and things skipped around and at one time I shot a guy (undead soldier) 
 blew up his chair. Came back and he was sitting in mid air. I killed the guy playing his harmonica, 
 came back and music was playing while he was dead. Lazy testers. I hate over 350 hearts in the 
 game, so thats sorta of how many bad guys I killed.
  
  Value: MP is fun but stupid not rewarding. So I'm selling it for one of the other two. Plus Darkness 
 isn't one of those collections sorta games I want to keep forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 5, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  I never really like FPS games because of the fear of things suddenly popping out on screen and 
 shooting at me esp in dark places. However, in this game, I AM THE MONSTER! Different story, so 
 watch out humans!
  
  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review:
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  From the 1st second, you are already sucked into the game in a car chase with 
 many police cars after you. This makes the game feels a lot like a movie with opening credits and 
 all. I'll vote this game for the best opening scene award.
  
  The gameplay is extraordinary. You can use your guns like in usual FPS, use the Darkness to help 
 you solve puzzles since its snake-like and can go where you can't, and you can summon darklings 
 to help you. All these gameplay elements make this game so extraordinary.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Overall graphics and atmosphere are excellent; sharp and highly detailed. I like 
 how things have those outlines in the dark. It does have a little aliasing problems which the 360 
 version doesn't have but it has better colors palette. Check out this comparison video between 
 PS3 and 360 version:
  http://www. gametrailers. com/player/21124. html? type=flv
  
  I don't really like their lip sync animation though, looks odd. They must have spent a lot of efforts 
 in the graphics and creative department, and I know this by looking at the posters in the subway.
 
  
  Sound: 9/10
  The voiceovers are perfect in this game, esp. the darkness' voice. Creepy yet so cool. The music 
 changes to a higher tempo when there's danger just like in Oblivion.
  
  Value: 8/10
  I heard this game is like 10-12 hrs so that seems a little short. The game does include multiplayer 
 online with standard online play like capture the flag and deathmatch etc. so replaybility for 
 online is there.
  
  Final conclusion:
  As I said, I don't really like FPS but I'll never miss out interesting titles like Resistance and 
 Half life 1 &amp; 2. In short, the Darkness is an interesting FPS not to be missed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stefonte
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 12, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is something different. The powers are very creative, and could have been put to better 
 use. The game should have definately implemented more thought provoking puzzle solving using these 
 new FPS powers. This game would have been perfect if it was a third person shooter, implemented 
 some kind of bullet time, and used the powers for more creative kills. I would have loved to impale, 
 rip in half, pop off a head, or thow someone. SInce the light really didnt have that much effect 
 on the powers, and I found myself waisting bullets shooting out lights, when the enemies dont use 
 the lights to their advantage, they could have at least made shooting out lights an accomplishment 
 in the game. Also I cant play online becasue the game requires that you have NAT 1 or 2, and I 
 have NAT3. Despite the flaws the story line was interesting and kept you playing the game. I can't 
 really say any more other than rent it and spend 10 days beating it. No replay value. Maybe at 
 31 yo I expect to much from games, pretty much every game that can be created has been. HOWEVER. 
 This game does just enough to keep you running around completing the missions to see what happens 
 next. It is a good buffer game to play while you wait for that next big game to come out. PUT IT 
 ON HARD because normal is just too easy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlift700
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jul 4, 2007 9:44 am PT
Review:  First of all, I'm not a huge fan of FPS games, I play them when there is nothing else to play, 
 and I'm bored. So that's where this review is coming from.
  
  That being said, the game was actually pretty fun. People talked about it being short, but I found 
 the storyline and content just about perfectly matched with the length. By the end of the game, 
 I was ready for it to be over... I had played with all the cool powers (really the coolest part) , 
 and gotten as many accomplishments done as I could, and the storyline was coming to a close.
  
  I won't go into the basic storyline, since you've read that in the main GS reviews, but I will 
 say, like the title of my review, the story and the powers is what sets it apart from an otherwise 
 standard FPS.
  
  The Graphics are about what I would expect from the current Next Gen titles, but the thing that 
 got me was, as the title suggests, it was DARK. Having to play the majority of the game in total 
 darkness, you'd think you would get some sort of fancy Splinter-Cell type night vision... but instead 
 you get a fairly cool looking, but not very effective glow to all the edges. On several occasions 
 I got myself stuck in a corner or a corridor not knowing which way is out, and just multiply this 
 effect by about 10 if your using the creeping dark, which has a Spiderman 3 camera-following issue 
 of not knowing your up from your left, right, or down, since you crawl along walls and ceilings 
 just by touching them.
  This Dark feel of the game also forced me to play it exclusively at night, with all the lights 
 turned out, as any glare would have made the afore mentioned hallways completely intolerable. Although 
 I will say the playing at night did add to the intended embiance of the game.
  
  The gameplay was good. The powers did add a nice touch and kept a non-FPS'er like myself fairly 
 content to explore all the possibilities. Aside from that... really it is the same old FPS you're 
 used to.
  
  Oh, I have to mention the annoying map and find your own way aspects of the game. Although maybe 
 it was their intention to immerse the player into the environment , I found it completely annoying 
 that the map you are given sucks, and as a result, you are left many times just to wander aimlessly 
 while you try and figure out where this next objective is. Thanks for the experience, but unless 
 your going to model your environment after a real city or a well-known place, give me a map on 
 a hud or a standard FPS radar to follow, thanks very much.
  
  I never tried out the Multi-player. I attempted it, but the game said I needed some setup option 
 blah blah blah (that I've never seen before in the other online games I play... just fine might 
 I add) .. but since I had already beaten the game, and I usually get spanked in online FPS'ers, 
 I chose not to trouble shoot, and instead put it back in the gamefly envelope so I can get my R6V 
 in!
  
  All said, I actually enjoyed this game quite a bit. The length was perfect for me.. it took me 
 about 3 nights of 3 hour gaming to beat it fairly casually.
  
  Try out the game, but don't buy it unless your big into FPS'ers. I don't see the replay value being 
 very high on this one (having not tried the multi-player) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enjoy_polo
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 4, 2007 7:25 am PT
Review:  Starbreeze use to make good games (they've done The Chronicle of Riddick ( XBOX ) which was awesome 
 by the way) and they came back with The Darkness which is great and in some way, looks pretty much 
 like Riddick. The graphics are great, huge, sound quality is great and finally, the storyline is 
 unique and awesome ! You may find it strange, in fact, it is but that's the point ! Anyway, you're 
 pretty much free in the game, like, you can call anyone (with a telephone) You can actually watch 
 a real movie (I don't know if it's full-length) like the very famous The man with the golden arm 
 with Frank Sinatra (yay, yeah, no kiddin') I mean, they offer us some real stuff ! Anyway, the games 
 is also multi-plateform so it's kinda easy to pick it up.
  
  Oh I forgot one very important part ... the Multiplayer online mode which can be played at 16. 
 Actually, I have a NAT 3 connection with my PS3 which makes that, i'm unable to play online ... 
 But from what i've heard, the online is not so shaky but is good, not great but good. ;-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rdhnightwolf
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 4, 2007 4:47 am PT
Review:  It's really not that bad of a game. The graphics are done very well, the story keeps you going, 
 and it's mood is set perfectly. Multiplayer could have been done much much better, but, for a Single 
 Player experience, I'd say it ranks right up with FEAR.
  
  Devouring hearts is cool, and the demons you control are actually quite funny to listen to. The 
 soudtrack really fits in well with the game, and the added content like full older movies is a 
 nice touch. Controlling the tentacles can be a bit frustrating at times, but other than that, it's 
 pretty fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wmg1299
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 4, 2007 3:57 am PT
Review:  The Darkness for the PS3 lives up to everything gamers wanted from the next generation. From the 
 graphics to the plot to the gameplay itself, this title raises the bar for games in general. Visually, 
 the game is stunning. While the game resembles a First Person Shooter, it provides more than gamers 
 have ever seen before. Your character casts shadows and moves more like a real person than any 
 game previous to this one. The city environments are beautifully detailed and highly realistic. 
 Other environments help bring gamers fully into the experience. All sound effects in the game are 
 of the highest quality. Traditional weapons actually sound like guns, and the demon based attacks 
 have a sound that perfectly captures the effect. The game also features excellent voice acting 
 that shows an effort on behalf of developers to produce a dramatic effect. The most revolutionary 
 aspect of The Darkness is the gameplay. This title takes the best parts of any first person shooter 
 and adds adventure aspects as well as melee combat with your characters supernatural arms. The 
 game features stealth aspects in an exciting way that gamers have never seen before.. The plot 
 is very deep, and players will actually want to advance the story. Basically, this game combines 
 the best aspects of the GTA series with the best parts of the Resident Evil series and presents 
 them in an FPS perspective. The adjustable difficulty settings, multiplayer options, and unlockable 
 content all add replay value to the title. Anyone who owns a PS3 owes it to themselves to play 
 this game. It is possible to finish the basic story mode during one rental period, but I firmly 
 believe that The Darkness is a solid purchase for all gamers. Welcome to the next generation. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: meme15220
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 3, 2007 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Half way through this game I would have given t a great rating, back when the game had so much 
 potential. Unfortunately after four days I completed the game on the medium difficulty, and now 
 I'm left with another $60.00 game collecting dust. No rewards for beating the game, no motivation 
 to play through it on hard and worst of all sloppy online play. I really had my hopes up for this 
 one but it stills feels like were not getting well rounded good games for these next gen titles. 
 This game is a great example of why we shouldn't **** every time a game gets delayed a few months 
 or so, in reality it's probably the best thing that can happen to a game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slavedheart
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jul 3, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Here is a game that finds it's legs much quickly, and tries to get you to stand up and run with 
 out much to feel like you are going on. Initially, there is nothing more than a red dot in the 
 center of the screen, and a tutorial that, when played on hard, can actually take a few runs to 
 get it right. Apparently you are Jackie, this young guy who wakes up in the back of a speeding 
 convertible with two buddies, being chased by crooked cops... and you day just gets worse from 
 there (I'm not giving anything away here, you play through this encounter with some amazing results.) 
 But it because it just jams you into the action, I'm not sure I fell into the shoes of young Estacado 
 as quickly as they would have liked me to.
  
  See, Here's the rub, this game is IMMERSING, and in no short order. It lacks a traditional HUD 
 of any sort, until shortly after the introduction of the whole Darkness thing, and even then, understanding 
 what you are seeing can take a second. Everything and everyone looks almost too real, to the point 
 that the flaws draw your eye more than the realism. You ARE the lead, run gun and die as you must, 
 all you see is what's out the two gooey orbs in your head, but even for this aggressive level of 
 realism, I didn't really feel that connection right away... Ok, now their are a FEW very touching 
 visual moments, where I fell into it a bit, here and there, and one or two OMG! moments, until 
 you jump into it, you don't really feel as if there is something to draw YOU directly into the 
 game. As far as draw you in, now see, here I'm going to contradict myself on a few things people 
 will read into my review. The writing and dialog in this game is almost to the point of Amazing, 
 especially for a video game. It is Very... Umm... Half-Life-ish... and that's the highest compliment 
 I can give when it comes to the writing in a game. This game contains some of the funniest (the 
 concrete flying car???) , the most... ahem... heart wrenching, and even some of the coldest dialog 
 I've seen in a game in a long time (once he gets that drill fixed..) . Maybe I haven't played as 
 many games as I should have, but the game as a whole is a work of art for the story alone....
 
  
  But if it isn't the story that's failing to draw you in, and the graphics are enough to bring up 
 conversations of the Uncanny Valley, then where is this game taking it's hits?? As far as I can 
 tell, it's just the presentation... Maybe it's that the side quests slow the flow of the game... 
 maybe fact that every NPC ostensibly beats you over the head with information about your next goal, 
 unless you click the button, then you can only get the 'half story' from your journal once they 
 clam up... maybe it's the odd control scheme you have to adopt to make the game play as fluid as 
 you see it in your head, or in one or two of the darkness induced cut scenes... but it really felt 
 as if it took a force of will to start falling for this game.
  
  Now that I find the game somewhat charming, and I've started my third go round on this title, I 
 feel the last salient thing to point out is the multiplayer. Don't go into this thinking it is 
 going to be a thriving community, or you might be mistaken. The maps are droll for the most part, 
 and the characters in multiplayer feel lifeless and tacked on. Not that it isn't fun, and couldn't 
 be a blast with a big tv and a living room of guys, but there doesn't seem to be a lot to create 
 the the community that some games enjoy.
  
  In conclusion, this game plays solid in the single player, once you suspend disbelief, especially 
 adventurer or someone who feels that goth is their scene , (whom I would advise stop playing games 
 and go outside... the sun is good for you... ) . It's defiantly a Rent, and if you find that the 
 'achievement' system for the ps3 is cute enough later, a Own for the insane depth of hidden items 
 if that's your gig, and a Pass for the hardcore multiplayer (at least, till their is an update) .
 
  
  Hope this helps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: oumir
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jul 2, 2007 10:39 pm PT
Review:  Wow, i thought this game was going to be truly awesome after reading the reviews, but all I really 
 got was an OK FPS. Don't get me wrong visually it is stunning, (PS3 can do better) , great story 
 and audio. I think they tried to make it a combo of GTA and Resistance FOM. They got an OK FPS 
 with control problems, boring weapons. The AI has problems in reaction and tactics. Overall, you 
 will have fun, but not a must have. I think that this title has a lot more potential. PS3 games 
 should be busting the bell curve, but hopefully the programmers will start to understand and be 
 able to exploit the true capabilities of the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grimdagamer
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 2, 2007 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is a non-stop action packed shooter. I love the guns, I love the powers, I love the 
 presentation, I LOVE THIS GAME. The graphics are above par, but they won't drop any jaws. The story 
 is fairly good and engaging and as I said the action is intense. You start off the game just being 
 a hit man for your uncle who happens to be the don of the mob. This being human thing is pretty 
 entertaining, but the real fun starts when you get your powers. You get four powers in all, which 
 come to you one at a time. They include, in order Creeping Dark, Demon Arm, Darkness Guns and finally 
 Black Hole. Creeping Dark allows you to take control of one of the snake like monsters at your 
 side. You can slither pretty fast to take out your enemies. This power also acts a certain puzzle 
 solving ability, as you can imagine. My favorite power would be Demon Arm, which gives you control 
 of a demonic tentacle that you can impale your enemies with or throw things with. Very fun. The 
 Darkness Guns are simply powerful guns and the Black Hole conjures up a black hole to suck your 
 enemies in. None of these powers ever get old, nor does the fear that each of them creates. This 
 game has some really spooky moments, particularly while inside the demonic WWI setting. There are 
 some problems. Multiplayer just sucks and the single player is really short. I didn't find the 
 darklings all that useful and hardly used them. But this game is a blast, so check it out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ironcreed
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 5, 2007 4:40 pm PT
Review:  This game is one of those FPS' that does an excellent job of drawing you into playing the role 
 of the character (Jackie Estacado) . It also is the type of shooter that takes skill as well. As 
 there is no auto aim function here. Just a very small red bead that you have to be pin-point accurate 
 with. A great feature that provides more of a challenge.
  
  It is actually refreshing to get a great shooter that is stroy driven, instead of being just another 
 fragfest that skimps on the single player experience in favor of making strictly an online game. 
 I have never heard of The Darkness comics, as I am not a big comic fan, but I do know that the 
 story made for great game material. The voice acting (Mike Patton sounds evil as hell) , the music.... everything 
 was top notch. It set the perfect atmosphere for a New York mob enviroment, as well as a dark (pun 
 intended) , and brooding sense of supernatural evil. A strange mix that works suprisingly well for 
 the story, and is just the sort of bizzare twist that keeps your interest perked when playing this 
 game.
  
  Gameplay wise the game was plenty smooth enough, and the control layout is easy and accessible. 
 Graphically the game is superb in some areas, especially with individuals in the game. In other 
 areas they are just very good. However, overall the graphics are excellent, and I feel that Starbreeze 
 has done a great job with this game, as it turned out to be killer.
  
  Without spoiling anything, the Darkness powers added a really fun element to the game that separates 
 it from traditional shooters (in a good way) , and are quite useful, not to mention rather lethal. 
 Especially towards the end of the game where one power in particular called black hole will save 
 your rear more than once, lol. However, you will find that the Darkness powers, as well as the 
 Darklings are a necessity for more things that just combat situations.
  
  Quite simply, one of the best, and most unique story driven shooters I have ever played. It is 
 just simply a very cool game, and one that I am proud to own for my PS3. Highly recommended. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steff3121
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jul 2, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  The Darkness is one of the most darkly themed games out there (surprise, surprise) . It takes its 
 name from a comic series by Top Cow, and while it has some similarities, this game is mainly focused 
 on the conflict between Paulie and Jackie. And the Darkness, of course.
  
  The game toggles between settings, mostly taking place in the New York complex. However, you will 
 venture to a world known as the Otherworld, where World War 1 eternally fights on, occasionally. 
 The story follows Jackie, a mafia hit-man, on his 21st B-Day. Party, right? Wrong. He is sent to 
 whack a construction leader, and is hearing voices. When his friends die in an accident on the 
 way to the site, he is forced to go on alone. He kills the guys on his way, but a bomb goes off 
 (courtesy of Paulie) , and he vows revenge. The tale twists as the Darkness tests its new host, 
 and Jackie's girlfriend, Jenny, gets mixed up.
  
  The action is really as brutal as you have heard. You can kill enemies with weapons, but it's much 
 more satisfying to demolish them with the Darkness. You start out with only a stealthy killer, 
 but you get a Demon Arm, some guns (one of which serves as a rocket launcher) , and the Black Hole, 
 which sucks in the enemies and kills them. Each of these abilities uses Darkness, so you much recharge 
 it by being in the dark. You can also devour hearts to gain new abilities. You read that right.
 
  
  The sound is passable, but the voice work is leagues ahead of the competition. All of the characters 
 sound believable, and the Darkness is sinister and alien. Also, instead of loading screens, you 
 get to listen to Jackie deliver a monologue. Most are original, and depend on the situation in 
 game, but some (especially the subway ones) are recycled, and get less funny each time.
  
  The graphics are good, but some things that should look lifelike look like plastic. The Darkness 
 on your shoulders look evil, and the dark itself looks appropriately dark. The guns look good, 
 and light is the same as ever.
  
  The places where the game gets rusty are few, but they are mentionable. The AI for enemies and 
 the rare ally are below average, and they will often cluster together. The game is difficult when 
 you rely solely on guns, and no Darkness, and sometimes you'll spend too much time shooting out 
 lights. While a neat concept, it ages quickly and poorly. Guns are underpowered, and you'll rarely 
 use the earlier powers when you get the later ones. The multi-player requires online or Lan connections, 
 with no option for local play.
  
  All in all, the game is good, but you wont have much reason to pick it up again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JEHOOVER007
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 2:50 pm PT
Review:  Wow, i thought this game was going to be truly awesome after reading the reviews, but all I really 
 got was an OK FPS. Don't get me wrong visually it is stunning, (PS3 can do better) , great story 
 and audio. I think they tried to make it a combo of GTA and Resistance FOM. They got an OK FPS 
 with control problems, boring weapons. The AI has problems in reaction and tactics. Overall, you 
 will have fun, but not a must have. I think that this title has a lot more potential. PS3 games 
 should be busting the bell curve, but hopefully the programmers will start to understand and be 
 able to exploit the true capabilities of the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tdiddy05
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:45 pm PT
Review:  At first I hated this game but it grew on me. The graphics have way to many jaggies and are not 
 as good looking as people have said. You get use to the gameplay but it could have used some fine 
 tuning. I believe the story is okay but I had a hard time following it. Also I spent a lot of time 
 in this game just walking aroung trying to figure out were to go next because the map is horrible. 
 It would have been nice if they added a sprint button. The voice acting is very good expectally 
 when the darkness is speaking (its very creepy) . Another part I didnt like was that the game would 
 always have close ups on peoples faces when they were talking but there lips never matched what 
 they were saying. Also way to many loading screens in the game. The value in this game is really 
 bad, after you beat it there is nothing that will keep you comeing back to play this game. The 
 multiplayer is almost unplayable because of lag. I would recomend you rent this game beause after 
 you beat the Darkness it will end up sitting on a shelf collecting dust. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rludeman44
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Graphics and gameplay... amazing. Go to a place where videogames are sold or rented and buy it.... or 
 rent it.... it is a delight. Kinda like hitman but better and the story ine is flippin' sweet. Takes 
 a little time to learn how to play it but it will def. be worth ur 60 american dollars. It is hands 
 down the best fps for ps3 although, I have not played rainbow six vegas yet. The game creepy and 
 the ability to go up and talk to almost everyone is amazing. The subway is also used alot which 
 is also sweet. In conclusion if u were thinking about buying it, don't think anymore..... go buy 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acviper123
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 2, 2007 9:19 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have played all year. In fact, it is the 2nd best Playstation 3 
 game in existence, in my opinion. You have to see this game to believe it. It has a great story, 
 with outstanding voice acting. Cleverly placed character monologues hide most of the loading screens. 
 While the story is where the game truly shines, the gameplay is outstanding as well. You use conventional 
 weapons at first, but as the game goes on you begin to use darkness powers. You can summon darklings 
 to do your bidding and help you out. The graphics are quite detailed, although it doesn't shine 
 quite like a game like Gears of War. All in all, its one of the most complete experiences of any 
 Next Gen game. Dont you understand? Go buy it now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 2, 2007 1:44 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is a new title, that at first I didn't pay too much attention to it, and until it's 
 released, I was hooked by its dark and brutal gameplay, so I bought myself a copy, and man, this 
 game is really amazing !!!
  start with the graphic, I must say this is the most stylish and beautiful game I've ever play, 
 there're so many stuffs on the screen, and yet it runs smoothly, most of things are detailed, heck, 
 I just stare on a television in the subway station for 10 mins, and the music vidoes show on that 
 television hasn't repeat its loop. and there are many other things that make this game looks so 
 realistic, and so cool &amp; stylish. sound is great, especailly the voice acting, just professionally 
 done !!!
  The gameplay I found kinda hard to aim, and Jackie moves kinda too slow.
  The online play for some reason just lag, and not smooth, maybe I didn't choose the right connection 
 speed or what not.
  
  in conclusion, this FPS game reminds me of Condemned, they are both dark and brutal, so I suggest 
 if you enjoyed playing Condemned, you will definitely find this game attrative.
  
  very very stylish graphics ...... man .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: demoman314
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 1, 2007 3:04 pm PT
Review:  The game is not scary no matter what it looks like, it can be a little bit eerie playing it at 
 2 'o clock in the morning like i do lol, but there is an amazing amount of Flash, substance, action, 
 and even some romance. There is one catch to this FPS though, actually there are a few. You are 
 the horror that everyone fears, and this is actually a FPS that has an amazing story line and an 
 amazing character development and voice acting.
  
  GAMEPLAY: This is where the game shines, besides the sound and graphics. You are Jackie Estacado, 
 a mob hit man who's uncle Paulie has turned on you and your friends. You must save yourself, your 
 mob family, and the streets of New York from this hot-headed, arrogant bastard. But theres a catch. 
 On your 21st birthday, which happens to be the same day your uncle puts a hit on you, the darkness 
 comes to you, just as it had come to your ancestors and forefathers. It gives you control of these 
 tentacles on each side of you which can crawl up walls in your control, rip peoples faces off, 
 tear out heart, knock out lights, stap people, cars, dumpsters, boxes and barrels. And also create 
 a black hole which will suck everything in range into, this is extremely usefule and fun by the 
 way. But the darkness has a mind of its own and so does your uncle Pauly. The Story is full of 
 twists and turns and moments that make you want to rip the faces off some of your enemies personally.
 
  
  GRAPHICS: This game is artistically stunning. It is running on its own graphics engine, which is 
 rare these days, *cough* unreal *cough*. But no bashing here. The game loooks fantastic hands down. 
 The anti- aliasing IS a little bit off. There are quite a few of jagged edges. Liek the corneres 
 of buildings have those annoying edges that are jaggedy. But this doesnt take away from anything 
 and you do not notice it if you are really looking hard for it. The reason this is though is because 
 its a first generation playstation 3 game and not every company fully understand how to work with 
 the hardware. It is perfectly capable of having straight egdes and great anti-aliasing. Just look 
 at resistance and motorstorm. Those game teas understand the hardware a little bit better. Nevertheless, 
 the game is amazing. Very dark and urban and eerie. Good reflections and all. the walls and water 
 and glass and colours all look amazing. Sometimes i just stand there in game and look around and 
 admire the art, so to speak. The game looks great! The only minor flaw is the aliasing problems. 
 But as a Tech geek i really dont even care it take nothing away from the game. This is definitly 
 one of the better looking games though.... definitily lol.
  
  SOUND: Wow, wow, wow, wow.... wow. The voices and sounds are good enough to be in a movie or to 
 be a movie. The voice acting is absolutley amazing. You actually want to listen to the conversations 
 you have with people. The sounds effects are also great, the guns and screams and curdling blood 
 as you rip someones face out or eat someones heart. My favorite parts are when the Drakness speaks 
 to you threw your soul in its very creepy voice and says, Jackie, you are mine... I run through 
 your blood. I love the sounds, they really immerse you into the game. Oh, and the musical score 
 is also very amazing! It always sets the mood.
  
  VALUE/OVERALL: This game is a definite buy for anyone who loves FPS but are getting sick of the 
 same old military, specail forces story lines. I was stuck between this and RSV and decided that 
 i had had enough of the special forces sotries for awhile... i mean there are very rarely any original 
 FPS. Well here is an original one that doesnt involve the miltary except for inside the Darkness's 
 personal Hell. This is an original FPS, with an amazing storyline, graphics, sounds violence and 
 gore. i would not advise this game for anyone under the age of 15 because there are some pretty 
 gruesome stuff, unless your a mature 15 or 12 year old than fine... but its pretty hardcore haha. 
 The game is a must-have guys. Get this game and add to your collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XBox-Buddy
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 1, 2007 2:07 am PT
Review:  This Game I see is an underrated game. The Graphics are wonderful the engine is sweet, and the 
 freaking darkness guys are your best friends in this game. The world at some points gets really 
 interactive.. which is really cool, but I would like to see tons more interactivity in the next 
 installment. I would Also like to see better animations. Like for Jackie's mouth for instance looks 
 like it barely moves. But back to the good stuff. The game is really cool and your Darkness has 
 many different techniques like summoning a creature or stealth bit head off kill or black hole.... but 
 yeah no doubt the combat system is great. The shooting controls are really good too and work really 
 well, just sometimes it seem really hard to aim. The story is really great too, although sometimes 
 I would get lost in whats happening. Overall if you are on the older side cause this game is not 
 for kids, you should pick up this game because this game needs a host without you it cannot survive. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 30, 2007 4:01 pm PT
Review:  The games starts off with a pretty cool chase scene where you and 2 other guy are trying to out 
 run the cops. Apparently you work for your uncle Paulie (Mobster) and a deal you were supposed 
 to make went wrong. Now uncle Paulie has put a hit on you on your 21st birthday. After playing 
 for about 10mins or so you encounter The Darkness . This evil spirit or demon as you will uses 
 your body as a puppet. It needs to feed by eating the hearts of those you kill. You can use the 
 darkness, which look like two pissed off snakes on each shoulder, to kill your enemies and reach 
 certain areas that you cant reach. You also have the power to summon a gremlin to fight for you 
 or solve a puzzle.
  This looks to be the first PS3 game to have ACCOMPLISHMENTS. These appear to just like the achievements 
 found on the Xbox 360. Now Sony hasnt released the update to involve these accomplishments outside 
 the game yet but the when they do I am sure you will get all the accomplishments added to your 
 score without having to play the game all over again.
  While playing the game you will be finding hidden phone numbers scattered throughout the city. 
 You can go to any phone and call these random numbers to unlock bonus features in the game. Some 
 of the phone calls are pretty funny. I also noticed that the game has full length movies. While 
 at your girlfriends house (Jenny Romano) she will ask you to sit and watch a movie. Stay there 
 until she falls asleep and you will unlock an accomplishment. You can even watch the entire movie 
 To Kill A Mockingbird.
  
  Graphics
  
  The game sports some of the best graphics in a FPS game. The city, subway, and people are all very 
 detailed. The game does show some jaggies while playing but nothing that will bother you. The game 
 is set at night but thats what makes this game so great. Whats so scary about the day time?
  
  Sound
  
  Great music which really sets the mood. The voice acting is superb and the creature/surroundings 
 sound really good. Just like in the real world there is constant noise going on. At one point you 
 will hear music, people talking, and gun shots in the distance at the same time.
  
  Value
  
  With the addition of accomplishments to the game this really helps boost the replay 
 value of the game. There are 50 accomplishments to get so this game should get plenty of extra 
 play time. The 2 other full movies are Nosferatu, and Popeye
  
  Multiplayer
  
  I havent tested the multiplayer mode yet.
  
  Overall
  
  This is one of my favorite FPS 
 games already. Its so realistic and just doesnt seem like a game. Its got everything from a great 
 story to great graphics. I rate this game.....
  
  8.75/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: September_Grey
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:58 pm PT
Review:  Starbreeze Studios had a hard road ahead of them to top their previous effort, but theyve pulled 
 it off largely without a hitch with The Darkness, an action game based on a comic series by Top 
 Cow. Drawing on the developers past experience of delivering well-paced, visceral gunplay and 
 then tying it in with a first-rate and gratifying storyline, The Darkness is a thoroughly entertaining, 
 cinematic experience that anyone looking for brutal action will enjoy.
  
  The Darkness centers around a man named Jackie Estacado, an enforcer for his Uncle Paulies crime 
 family. The game begins with a job gone bad, and to punish you, Paulie puts out a hit on Jackie. 
 Coincidentally, this all goes down on the eve of Jackies twenty-first birthday  the night in 
 which The Darkness, a demon-like power passed down through generations, can assume its new host. 
 Jackie becomes suddenly imbued with its powers and is set on a course to control it. The juxtaposition 
 of a gritty mob tale with supernatural elements is terrific, and youll find yourself increasingly 
 drawn in to the well-told story of The Darkness. In fact, youll find that the story and gunplay 
 are interwoven in a way that no shooter has ever really pulled off before. The games plot is integral 
 to what Jackie is doing and where hes doing it; it necessitates all of the intense firefights 
 Jackie will be plowing through, also. It helps that the script is so rich and the voice performances 
 behind the words are very powerful, delivering the lines with great conviction.
  
  Youll likely be equally as captivated by the spectacular shootouts that seem to be waiting around 
 every corner. Jackie will get all sorts of pistols, shotguns, machine guns and the like to give 
 him a hand. Weapons sound off with a commanding boom, snap backward in Jackies hands, and connect 
 with the enemies violently. Spraying blood, cries of pain, and lifeless bodies being pulled to 
 the ground by impacting bullets are par for the course in The Darkness. The enemies wouldnt win 
 any commendations for their excellent tactics, but they come on fast and hit hard, forcing you 
 to hone your reflexes to come out victorious.
  
  Of course, Jackie also has the power of The Darkness at his side. Pressing L1 at any time will 
 activate your powers, causing spooky, living tentacles with razor sharp teeth to sprout out of 
 Jackies shoulders and appear on the edges of your television. Passively, The Darkness will raise 
 up a sort of bullet shield that will protect you from damage and heal you up if you stay out of 
 the line of fire for a few moments. The tentacles can also rip out the hearts of fallen enemies 
 and eat them to increase the potency of your Darkness powers. There are four different powers to 
 use, although they are accumulated gradually over the course of the games five chapters. The starting 
 power allows Jackie to detach one of his tentacles and control it along the ground, crawling into 
 small vents to unlock doors or sneaking up behind enemies to viciously tear their faces off. Youll 
 also get a sharp demon arm you can extend to impale enemies; Darkness pistols that deal the hurt 
 in spades; and most spectacularly, a black hole ability that will suck up all nearby enemies and 
 objects in the environment. Your assorted Darkness powers feel extraordinarily potent, and simply 
 tops off the excitement of the already thrilling gunplay.
  
  The catch to Jackies powers is that, as fitting their name, youll need to be in the dark to use 
 them. All of the benefits and powers you can use while The Darkness is activated cost a bit of 
 the dark energy youve absorbed. As long as Jackie is in the dark, your tentacles will suck up 
 the surrounding darkness and refuel, allowing you to keep using your abilities. If youre exposed 
 to light directly, youll hear Jackie sizzle, and you wont be able to use your powers until you 
 get back into the dark. You get the impression early on that this will amount to a pace-killing 
 stealth mechanic, but thankfully, staying in the dark is as simple as using your ample amount of 
 bullets to shoot any light fixtures ahead of you. There are a few surprise locations and situations 
 (which wont be spoiled here) that will keep you on your toes at times, but for the most part, 
 you can shoot out the lights and engage your dark side.
  
  It is ultimately a matter of preference whether you use your guns or powers primarily, but as you 
 might expect, balancing the two is the best way to progress smoothly. However, no matter where 
 you place your dominance, youll discover one of The Darkness few shortcomings; the enemies dont 
 get much tougher as you progress. Assuming you have some basic experience with first-person shooters, 
 it wont take more than a couple shootouts to get the hang of your average encounter. By the time 
 the games final stretch has begun and you have all of your devastating Darkness powers, enemies 
 will be no match for you. It is fitting that Jackies power increases as he becomes further entrenched 
 in the powers of The Darkness, but overall things feel a little too easy here. Another shortcoming 
 are the Darklings. Youll come across a few tentacle-covered holes in the games environments, 
 and youll be able to summon demonic helpers from these that have a specific modus operandi; some 
 will melee attack enemies, while others will suicide bomb them, or gun them down from afar. A fourth 
 Darkling can be summoned to hunt down and kill light sources for you. The Darklings look cool and 
 speak with gleefully twisted voices, but theyre not much help at all; theyll mostly just stand 
 around and get killed instead of doing their duty.
  
  The Darkness isnt really a game thats about a stiff challenge, though. From very early on in 
 the game, it becomes clear this is a game that, in addition to its fantastic gameplay, is about 
 little details. If you dont want to tackle the next part of the story so suddenly, youre free 
 to roam New York City at any time, taking the subway between two main zones that themselves are 
 comprised of small subsections. It can be a real treat to stroll around the dark, gritty streets, 
 covered in perpetual darkness. You can find scraps of paper around the city with phone numbers 
 on them, then dial them at a payphone to hear all sorts of weird messages. Turn a certain corner 
 at the subway station, and youll find a group of breakdancers with a boom box tearing it up. If 
 you walk away from someone whos speaking to you, theyll brashly brush off your rudeness for strolling 
 off prematurely. Even the loading screens are enjoyable, with Jackie sitting in a dark room setting 
 up the next part of the plot or telling amusing anecdotes. It is this sort of attention to detail 
 that takes the fun framework and really makes it something special.
  
  Theres a multiplayer mode in The Darkness as well, though it isnt nearly as impressive as the 
 single player game. What you get is the paltry deathmatch, team deathmatch, and capture the flag 
 options, with the ability to allow shape shifting. This lets you morph from a human to a Darkling 
 as seen in the solo adventure. While it is interesting to play a new character in multiplayer, 
 it is just not as enjoyable or well-paced outside of a story-driven product. Although its certainly 
 not bad multiplayer, you wont find the makings of the next big online shooter in The Darkness 
 online modes.
  
  As fitting from the developers of The Chronicles of Riddick on the Xbox, The Darkness looks and 
 sounds great all around. Like Riddick, this game has tons of gritty, shadowed environments and 
 character models that, aside from looking just a tad too much like theyve been modeled from clay, 
 are fantastic. Especially impressive is the way they emote; almost every character in the game 
 uses extremely impressive and pleasing hand gestures and other such body language ask they talk, 
 lending an authentic quality to their presence. Theres also a completely separate, much more fantastical 
 location than the urban mish-mash of New York City, and without saying too much, it provides a 
 great contrast to what youll mostly be seeing with highly stylized dystopian landscapes. Audio 
 is just as good, with hard metal music to accent the especially brazen action and some of the best 
 voice acting youll ever hear in a game. Of particular note is Jackie and The Darkness itself, 
 which cajoles our protagonist with unsettling, whispered imagery.
  
  If you have a Playstation 3, you owe it to yourself to check out and thoroughly enjoy The Darkness. 
 Its marriage of hard and fast gunplay with an enjoyably woven mafioso tale makes it one of the 
 most fun and tightly constructed games for the current batch of consoles. Like most modern action 
 games, The Darkness story lasts about eight to ten hours; but like a really good meal, its the 
 quality, not quantity, that makes the game so outstanding, despite a few minor shortcomings. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ynfive
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I have waited what feels as forever to see what the developer Starbreeze would release next after 
 the perfectly designed Chronicles of Riddick action game for the ol' XBOX. Maybe I have given too 
 much credit presumptuously in anticipation of Starbreeze's new FPS as I felt mostly underwhelmed 
 in most of Darkness' gameplay conventions. Don't write off my underwhelment as to say this is a 
 bad game. I still had fun, and as what the usual storyline would go for a straight up shooter, 
 Darkness gives some high quality marks in its emotional capacity. Still in hoping to see an evolution 
 of the gameplay known in Riddick, it felt a step backwards to games a few or more years before 
 it. Mostly, by Darkness' setting, I became reminded much of the Max Payne series, as it takes place 
 in similar parts of New York. Darkness lacks the Coreographnessability [totally new word] of Max 
 Payne's Bullet Time, but allows a new freeness of vengefull roaming to find your next mission objective. 
 And while lacking the one-two-punch shankings of Riddick, Darkness fills a leu of creative superhuman 
 powers, which I must say that after some experience working with are tactically destructive and 
 allow an interesting toyish play. The most noteable parts of Darkness are the sub missions, as 
 they feel what is now classic Starbreeze, and are just as enjoyable to complete as they were in 
 Riddick. The main game will yet overshadow much of this small stuff giving an emptry feel to the 
 reality of this Manhattan world.
  
  Darkness also has some Multiplayer. It feels old school.. In a fuzzy warm feeling way... but does 
 not live up to today's standards.
  
  The main quest of Darkness is easily the real focus of this game, and it follows some of the best 
 storyline formulization that a comic book theme could hope to provide to a gaming medium. Some 
 of the dialogue could seem a bit cheesy at first, but in allowing a little time to familiarize 
 ones self with the game it will be easily forgiven, and much welcome. I definately felt the Darkness 
 overcoming me when it was supposed to be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: edroc23
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 5:10 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome. I never had an appetite for eating mobster hearts until now. The story is 
 gruddy at times gruesome but it shouldn't be any other way. The story is well told and the powers 
 Jackie is cursed with is a lot of fun. The graphics are stunning and the darkness animations are 
 very cool. Great idea of having the heads of the darkness on the sides of the screen. It really 
 adds character to the game and originality. Which it has a lot of. If you love bloody Mafia games 
 or movies you should try this one out. I haven't got to play the on line portion of the game. For 
 some reason it is telling me I need to have NAT 1 or 2. What the hell does that mean?! If someone 
 knows please help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoragArkadia
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 29, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  I eagerly anticipated the release of this game and while I am pleased overall there is certainly 
 a lot left to be desired. Graphics are impressive and lighting not bad. Story is very linear based, 
 and for being a city the environment sure is devoid of life. The AI is an area where much more 
 work could have been done, often times foes will run in like on a movie set oblivious to the carnage 
 around them. However, the demonic powers, though at times a little unwieldy are fun to use and 
 yes the game is gratuitously violent. Frequent load times are a bit of a drag but overall a game 
 worth renting, I mean lets face it, on the PS3 we are kind of starved right now for good games 
 so we take what we can get. I am surprised that Gamespot would give this game such a high mark, 
 seems inflated, a 7 is more what this game should have received. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodOfSyn
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 2:04 pm PT
Review:  I can't stop playing it long enough to do it. So cool with dark powers, and being weary of the 
 World War 1 part, I ended up thinking these areas of the game were some of my favorites. I love 
 this game, what more can I say, I have to go play it some more, and the multiplayer is crazy cool. 
 Seem to need more words in here than this so again I love this dang game. Ok still not at 100 words 
 what the heck hahahahahaha, hmmmm, this is, odd, it won't let me stop typing, oh come on, go go 
 go go go. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andreysibiris
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:12 am PT
Review:  oh my god...!! this game from beginning is awesome!! graphics are so nice and moves that you can 
 do are very nice!! I just bought rainbow six and graphics are ok offline and online i dont like 
 them to much but no so great graphics as this one!. shadowns and objects are so detailed!! you 
 can move and shoot objects so realistic. music just match perfect with scenes, you get excited 
 when you reach enemys... i just recommended this game for people that like no comun games, its different 
 than everything else. just buy it if you like to view your console's potencial to maximum level!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilD2005
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jun 29, 2007 9:10 am PT
Review:  Is it the comic book? No instead this is a butchered up bastard version. Fans of the comic book 
 may find it disapointed how down to earth this game is compared to the fantasy and epicness of 
 the comic series. No Angelus, creepy brotherhood, and no cool mastery in which the powers of darkness 
 itself submits to your will. Instead what you get from the butchered version of the comics is spliced 
 together in such a way that whats left is pure poetry and brilliance. It's almost a crossover of 
 half-life and Indigo Prophecy and the dialogue of something that lacks in todays movie industry. 
 Jackie (insert odd name here) is a hitman who on his 21st birthday, gets the big screw from his 
 uncle Paulie. What insues starts off as another day in the life and turns into one man's quest 
 for revenge. Meanwhile the player is caught in between both the action and by the end of the game, 
 will know every single detail about the hero through his own, well spoken, narratives. Infact, 
 its safe to say, all the feelings you feelw hile playing this game are due to them being in relation 
 to how Jackie feels. It gets to the point that when you start getting revenge, it feels great!
 
  
  The problems are either few and small, or many but tiny. One is that despite the writing, and the 
 actors' great portrayals (I havent heard voice acting this good or writing in a game for along 
 time) , the motion of the characters feel bland like they arent expressing the emotion that is coming 
 out from their lips, or lack of movement in the lips or facial region to reflect them. The next 
 problem comes from the story line (due to people who havent played, I will not spoil what it is) 
 that is a result of act 2 and 4 and then becomes a problem shortly after then end of act 4 into 
 the beggining bit of act 5. Though the peice I will say is critical to the ending, I just think 
 it flat out spits on the continuity.
  
  Another issue is the loading. You go from place to place, and then you have to wait for it to load. 
 Its not thetoking that bugs me, infact it keeps the laoding from becoming boring and is a nice 
 touch, however a load screen from point a to point b makes side missions and possibly getting lost 
 frusturating. The good news is you wont get lost too often. Also, I felt the graphics could be 
 better for a next gen. They felt slightly gritty, however they were passable and not too much of 
 a distraction. Both the good and bad come fromthe games length, that by the time you are done, 
 you want to play the sequal (none has been confirmed as of yet) . You could almost sense that if 
 they wanted to they could have made another game in this one disc. However, the length of the game 
 keeps the pace to where it should be and ends apropriately. The ending may not be what some expect 
 and may infac en only one of two, (still waiting on theofficial word) but without spoiling it, 
 I will say it leaves for interpretation, kinda like Donnie Darko though pobably easier to understand. 
 All in all, $60 might be a bit much asking for a game of this length (and I do not know how much 
 the average gamer will feel about their own replay value of ti) , though as far as recomendation 
 goes, play this game any way possible. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JustHawkeye
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  The Darkness is like no other game you have ever played and this is both good and bad. i will display 
 these below with pros and cons...
  
  Pros: great voice actors, musical score is very well done some of the best since Halo 2, graphics 
 are truly next gen, the new finishing moves are very fun to use, story is very interactive and 
 keeps you going, killing mobsters has never been this fun.
  
  Cons: all the characters mouths move when they talk but for some reason yours barely moves it moves 
 but not enough, you walk the entire game with no sprint button, not enough to do in the this huge 
 city to make it worthwhile walking all over it, no really huge gun battles, weapon selection is 
 thin with your pistols usually being the best, multiplayer is fun but laggy.
  
  This game will have many people saying that riddick was better and when i review games i like not 
 to compare games with a companies previous games its just not fair, and anyway this game is just 
 as good as riddick. i would highly recommend this game, and if they ever fix the lag in multiplayer 
 i would love it online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wazzup987
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 7:26 am PT
Review:  One of the few things holding this back from a ten is that the pacing is a bit off beat. At time 
 you'll have know idea wear to go or there will be along slow point in the game. And the load times 
 are rather irritating (they frequent and break up gameplay they're about 30 seconds long) . The 
 ai could have been better (At times it seems a little dull) but for most it will be just right. 
 but none of these flaws break the game. And for the any dues ex fan they will love this game. Most 
 shooter fans will love this game to if they don't mind the pacing or getting lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hades_30
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:35 am PT
Review:  I've played some scary games, and The Darkness isn't really one of them, but it really is evil. 
 F. E. A. R., Condemned, System Shock 2, now those were scary games. The Darkness is more about setting 
 the mood of pure evil and working a good story in.
  
  The game mechanics worked well for me. I found it easy to get right into the game. I haven't gotten 
 stuck and it flows very well (I am nearly at the end of the game, I think) . It does seem like it's 
 pretty short, but then there's multiplayer, and hopefully some additional downloadable content 
 in the future. I don't mind it being short. I rarely can finish a game before I see another one 
 that I want to play, so a short game is fine with me, and long as it is a quality game that's fun 
 to play and has some replayability.
  
  Graphics are awesome. Nice detail in the world, and character look alright, but their facial animation 
 is bad. I've seen animation come a long way, even so that you can read lips when characters talk, 
 but the characters in The Darkness don't move a muslce on their faces. But hey, this is a shooter, 
 not an RPG, I am over it.
  
  Weapons feel good and sound great. Darkness powers are impressive, graphically. The game is dark, 
 appropriately so, but it never feels like its covering things up. It all it's darkness and gloom, 
 you can see so much of the gameworld in detail.
  
  Sound is very good and the voice acting is just about the best I've heard in a long time. Mr. Patton 
 should be up for some kind on nomination for his work on Jackie. The voice is just perfect, and 
 he reads his lines flawlessly.
  
  Gameplay is above average for a shooter in my opinion, simply because it gives more options in 
 combat instead of using a variety of weapons to get through. The Darkness powers add alot to the 
 gameplay, and they are fun. A sort of RPG like feature lets you build these powers, which makes 
 you want to keep at it until your uber. A very well told story helps to make the action more fun. 
 It never seems like I was blasting enemies just to get to the end of a level, instead I was always 
 caught up in the moment, and wants to unravel the next bit of the story.
  
  This is definitely a mature game. I am thankful that some **** in law or politics hasn't tried 
 to supress this game. As I've said, it IS and evil game. I've even heard that it's been traded 
 back to Gamestop more than once by customers who complained that it is too satanic. Well, GOOD! 
 That is the point of the game, the devs did a fine just once again, as they've done in Riddick, 
 and god bless them for making it mature and getting it published this day in age . . .
  
  I really enjoy The Darkness, and it was a game I wasn't even anticipating buying until a day for 
 two before it came out. A must buy for PS3 owners, if you can stomach the evilness . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS4eva
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  IT has a very good start of telling the story. You are Jackie Estacado, a hit-man for the Franchetti 
 crime family. And on your 21st birthday, a timeless force know as The Darkness awakens within you. 
 you can wreak havoc on your enemies with the powers it bestows. But you'll learn that The Darkness 
 hass a will of its own.... Good game-play when you start. Graphics are good but could be better. 
 Sound is awesome. Using The Darkness is the best thing about the game. You get to have stealth 
 with The Darkness coming up behind enemies and just take a bite of them, take a bite out of their 
 heart. Also the blood is so realistic its the only game that I have seen yet with the blood like 
 that. Also you so some crazy people in the game. Like this one guy in the game who like's to gamble 
 and I just cannot pass it he is too damn good. But honestly the game have a goo creation on how 
 they did the tagging in the game and made it look so real its like no mistake on that part, its 
 just to damn real. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saintsrow13
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 1:17 am PT
Review:  This game is well done, easily said. But it still has minor flaws, like all games. The only flaw 
 I can really accentuate is the games length, I bought it at 4 pm and finished at 10 pm with time 
 to eat dinner included. Now don't get me wrong, the length does not justify the playability. The 
 gameplay, its simple, yet looks better and more animated on screen. For example, there is no leaning 
 button, instead, if you were to duck behind a bench perhaps, you could aim up and your gun will 
 automatically move itself in a position where you can see over the bench, and have a clear shot 
 crosshair. Though some weapons you will find unused, or out of ammo quickly, almost every weapon 
 will have a moment in your gameplay. Now, any marksman reading this will wonder about the sniping 
 ability. Sadly, there is none, because in most action sequences, you will be in close quarters. 
 But don't worry, every weapon can have a zoomed view.
  
  Now for the animations I mentioned earlier, not even guns, but you will find many average NPC's 
 doing many animated things, and enemies too. Ill give two examples. One: When I was walking through 
 the subway (Which has the grimy feel of an actual one) I saw a breakdance competition, no importance, 
 it was just there, and very well done. Two: I was walking down a street in the lower east side 
 (also grimy) a guy jumped out of an alley and pulled a knife and I quote said Give me your wallet 
 now mother f*$#er! I immediately pulled my gun and shot him up, What else could I do?
  
  Now, for every gamers problem, the loading. This games loading is so well done, that it tell the 
 story in Jackies wrds, or another random fact each time you load. An you won't see a bar, you'll 
 see hime in a dark room just talking. When it ends, the loading bar will often be three quarters 
 full or halfway, making loading no problem at all.
  
  Now, you may or may not have heard about your dark abilities. The Darkness, which is a demonic 
 being, possesses you early in the game and you will recieve different abilities throughout the 
 game. Each ability will always end up used. My favorite is the death spike (my name for it) where 
 a razor sharp demon arm will reach out to impail your enemy or any random NPC you come across in 
 the street. It can even pick up cars! But you won't do that often, trust me. There is also the 
 black hole for killing a group of enemies, one of The Darkness' demons that can sneak kill anything, 
 and the guns for dispatching single enemies with ease.
  
  All in all, The Darkness is a well done game, with plenty for you to do and see in such a short 
 time. I recommend you rent it first though because you dont want to pay $70 and find yuorself done 
 in the first 5 hours. But even if you do buy it, you'll still have fun with it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mars188
Rating: 8.1
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:33 pm PT
Review:  about time someone thinks of somthing new, you can kill with your guns are call out your dark powers, 
 even have some little helpers from the dark world to give you a hand, comes off very well, good 
 spooky sounds good story, i just wish they could of made the levels look better and diffrent parts, 
 makes me feel like i am boxed in, but i did buy this game and its fun i played for about 7 hrs 
 , at frist its hard so you will have to give the game sometime but its worth it. i would say buy 
 it diffrent game its fun enjoy thanks 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vivendidoom
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 28, 2007 4:25 pm PT
Review:  For a game that spawns itself strieght from a comic book back in the mid 90's, this particular 
 game got the comic-to-game translation right. Not many games can make this transition between (spawn 
 anyone) ? For the actual writer putting in script time and helping out on his vision of how the 
 comic should be laid out into a game is truly astonishing and deserves a good clap for his interpretation 
 into the gaming community. The story is ver similar to the comic books but aslo differently translated. 
 You still got your darklings from the darkness and its world war I death sequences, but it is how 
 everything ties into each other through the dark weird hell of the darkness into the crime families 
 of new york in harsh times that really seperate itself from most other game story telling franchises. 
 Now I do not know about most gamers, but story and gameplay mechanics are really what keep my mind 
 at bay from tossing the controller 50 feet and ripping the system away from the wall because the 
 game made me think the outside world was a better place. The darkness was won of those games where 
 the graphics and physics had me wowing and screaming ungodly amounts of this is fricking cool and 
 i want the darkness as a pet of my own! the gamegameplay isnt too hard to grasp although the aiming 
 may take a little time getting used to the asist it gives, but i have yet to experience what gamespot 
 calls going to the head issue the aiming has, and i have already beaten the game cause i played 
 for over a day streight. I can agree that the AI needs to be forgivin from time to time, but its 
 not everyday you get to extend a sharp arm and place it over someones head while they seem to shoot 
 you not knowing their impending doom if they where to just look up. Im not kidding when i say, 
 the darkness gets you a little of a whoa, where the hell did that come from instance. One of those 
 is displayed when you meet your great grandad Anthony Estacado who gives a speech about what he 
 figured out and recently has become to understand about the darkness until he is cutoff by the 
 voice, saying do NOT INTERFERE!!! still gives me the freaks. As for the multiplayer aspect, i have 
 not touched because of my ability to question it, but a game should not be review for its online 
 play unless its strictly online like shadowrun. As for the port that the playstation 3 got, the 
 shaders are a little bland, and the PS3 still has a high gamma translation, so the best experince 
 for the darkness in its true form should ultimatly be played on the 360 alone. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BOGATOR1
Rating: 8.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:29 am PT
Review:  The graphics are really good and it's been fun so far. My wife screams at the appropriate moments 
 and the kids run to bed as fast as they can go when the load screen comes up from the XMB :-)
 
  
  It's scary Daddy , and that's just with the music playing.
  
  I wouldn't exactly call it an FPS because the shooting is the weakest part of the experience. It's 
 first person all right, but you're better off using the Darklings and Darkness Powers to do your 
 killing.
  
  I recommend this game, but don't expect a typical FPS experience from it. More later if I can edit.... 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shadowhunter13
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 11:13 am PT
Review:  this is a game that is heavily story driven, but if that isn't your cup of tea, then the practicly 
 non-stop action will be. This is one of the best games I have seen in a long while, this is a spactacular 
 game, the multiplayer feels like it was thrown together in seconds and the game is a bit short, 
 but the voice acticing is suberb and the darklings are drakly halarius, weopons seem a bit on the 
 bad side considering you can't really choose your weopon and in when your in hell, or the trenches 
 or whatever you want to call it, you get stuck with a sucky rifle it get hard, but the power work 
 well the whole kill the lights thing makes it cool, but makes it so that you really can't play 
 the game with the lights on or a appertiate how much detail was put into the worlds. Over all thoe 
 this game is GREAT!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jpbas
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 10:03 am PT
Review:  The game is short, the graphics could be better (especially in 1080p) and the AI could be smarter. 
 Still, the sheer enjoyment brought about by playing a character as violent and dark as this is 
 undeniable. Every new FPS franchise that comes out these days needs to offer something new to the 
 genre and The Darkness gives us this in the use of little demons and snake like tentacles hungry 
 for hearts. While these new conventions might sound average on paper, they are executed nicely 
 and feel new. The story is compelling and the action is bloody. What more could a player want? 
 Oh yea, more game play, better graphics and better AI. Oh well, not everything is perfect.
  
  The Darkness is one of those must buy games, maybe even one to buy a console over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GMoney8
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jun 28, 2007 9:36 am PT
Review:  Very happy with how this game turned out. Story is phenomenal as are the graphics and voices. While 
 the main story may seem short, hard mode brings out the most and doing all of hte side missions 
 keeps you very occupied and satisfied. It did feel liked it lacked some things but hopefully a 
 longer game wil be developed. As far as online it is choppy but that is based on one's internet 
 connection, smooth flowing games are very fun and entertaining. The survivor game seems popular 
 as it balances the use of humans and darklings with trying ot be the last one standing. The gameplay 
 and darkness powers are very fun to use and greatly developed. What may have helped the game a 
 litle more is possibly a fierce boss battle somewhere whereas the battle with the Darkness itself 
 was very easy and a letdown. Then again this game looked to be different from others to establish 
 itself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tatton777
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 28, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  I almost didn't purchase this game because of the poor user ratings it was getting. To all of you 
 who hate this game... 'What the hell do you want from a game? Seriously what do you want?'
  
  The Darkness delivers on so many levels. The graphics are fantastic. The folks at StarBreeze 
 really got it right in this department. The ambience and lighting are great; the environments are 
 interesting and realistic. Animations have been lovingly crafted. This engine used for The Darkness 
 seems to be an updated version of the one used for Butcher Bay and it delivers. One gripe I have, 
 a carryover from the Bucher Bay game is the shiny skin syndrome that we have seen in some games. 
 Is it as bad as Doom 3 or Perfect Dark 2? No, but it's still there and it distracts from the experience 
 a little.
  
  The voice acting and story are great. A really good story and characters are so hard to find in 
 the FPS genre, nearly non-existent accept for a few stand outs such as Half Life 2 and... wait 
 a minute... never mind.... ONLY Half Life 2 can compare in story with The Darkness. The characters 
 in The Darkness, even the side characters are believable, well acted, and well animated from the 
 beginning frame.
  
  The sound is great, richly structured and well crafted. The soundtrack ranges from symphonic to 
 hard rock; god I love a drummer who can actually pull off fast, accurate double bass! All the music 
 is well written and fits the mood of the moment in the game.
  
  Then there are The Darkness powers. They are spectacular, as much fun to play as they are beautiful 
 to watch. I don't want to give too much away here. The Darkness Powers are as much fun to discover 
 as they are to play. The can be used for brute force attacks, stealth attacks, scouting and provided 
 a wealth of other benefits to Jackie (our anti-hero) . Just let me say that they add a dynamic to 
 the FPS that no one else has achieved.
  
  The Darkness is Great, I loved it. It's one of those titles you play through twice when you get 
 it and then pop back in the console every now and then just because it so good.
  
  Thanks for reading. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dominator0621
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 28, 2007 7:07 am PT
Review:  This game is a masterpiece. Plain and simple. The prestentation off the game from the unique next-gen 
 first person perspective to the overall storyline is just simple wonderful. During the very beinging 
 of the game when you are in the first subway i even spent about 20 minutes and watched a full episode 
 of an old school cartoon that was on the tv, which was in the shoping cart next to the sleeping 
 homeless guy. Also the first time that you do an execution move definetaly gets you shocked in 
 aww as how grewsome the game really is. Now granted im barely 1/2 way through the game i think 
 and this game is just INCREDIBLE so far. So i left i must review it right away. THIS IS A DEFINATE 
 KEEPER GAME.
  I put hard on the difficulty rating because it can be an easy game that just depends on your setting 
 of the difficulty level at the begining. I put a nine for gameplay just because i think it would 
 have been cool if you could have eaten hearts faster by having both of the heads eating hearts 
 instead of just basically having the guy on the right getting all of the fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: notoriousmatty
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:53 am PT
Review:  The best story and voice acting on any game, ever. I have played ALOT of games and I can admit 
 this. Mike Patton as the darkness isnt the only one im talking about either, every character is 
 done superb. Mike Patton as the darkness actually is moving at times with what he says and I start 
 to seek a deeper view of the darkness. I cant overstate how great a job they did on this aspect. 
 The graphics had their problems but I would of played this game had it been on my ps1 with the 
 same story and acting. Jaggies were there on my 1080p tv but everything else looked pretty decent. 
 But your not going to play this game to see its graphics, trust me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nint3nd0_Fr3ak
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 9:08 pm PT
Review:  Overall, the darkness is a fun game. You get to run around and nonchalantly pop dudes in the face 
 repeatedly. The darkness powers are a lot of fun also. The voice acting is impeccable in this game, 
 I have never seen it done this well. The overall visual style is amazing in this game mostly because 
 of the influence that starbreeze took from the comic book. Of course, this game isnt without its 
 own faults, such as the tacked on multiplayer and awkward controls at times, nonetheless this game 
 is a solid and fun title that everyone should give a try.
  
  Graphics- 9/10- This game has a great visual style
  Sound-10/10-The voice acting is bar none
 
  Gameplay-8/10A little clunky at times but solid overall
  Value-7/10Not too long and unsatisfying multiplayer
  Tilt-10/10- This game is just f****** cool. 
 PERIOD.
  
  Nint3nd0. fr3ak 
::::::

::::::
UserName: petertokunbo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:24 pm PT
Review:  it was fun, more content on te ps3 version so get that.
  awesome awesome gameyou can shoot with a small minigun from Hell. Still others are kamakazies to 
 the core, and rush foes or obstacles to explode in firey bits! They are here to serve you, and 
 serve you well. You will also spawn various apendages used for pulling at objects with great force, 
 or putting out the lights around you. You can also use tentacle beasties with teeth to sneak up 
 on foes, scout ahead safely, or solve some of the puzzles in the game (like sending one through 
 a small space like an air duct to unlock a door for you) . You also have a shield for your very 
 human frame, and much, much more you'll discover as you play. Plus, when some enemies see you coming 
 with the Darkness all over your body, and your eyes glowing yellow, they literally give up and 
 drop to the floor. Very cool feature! You'll find the game a challenge on Normal or Hard modes, 
 as a few shots to your human form will kill you. Around five or six to your shielded form will 
 as well. You are a bad ass antihero to be sure, but you're far from invincible. There are several 
 side missions and plotlines to follow at certain points in the game, to add to the overall play 
 and time spent. You will also find working phones all over the place with in game numbers to call, 
 as well as a myriad of televisions throughout the world that possess a handful of cool channels. 
 VERY cool touch there. You won't be left wanting, as the game lasts between ten and fifteen hours, 
 depending on how you play. Plus, some of the achievements will keep you busy on the other playthroughs. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mistacoon
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:59 pm PT
Review:  QQQQQQQ QQQQQQQ QQQQQQQQQQQ QQQQQQ QQQQQQQQQQQQ QQQQ Q Q Q Q Q QQQ QQQ Q Q QQ QQQQQQQQ QQQ QQQQ 
 QQQ Q QQQ QQQQQQQ QQQQQQQQQQ QQQQQQQQQQQQ QQQQQQQQQQQQ QQ Q QQQQQQQQQQQQQQ blah blah blah dont 
 feel like writing an essay blah blah blah all u need to know is its great and you should get it 
 if not a rent. blah blah blah Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q QQ Q 
 Q Q QQ Q Q QQ Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q 
 Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q Q  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CR00K
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:57 pm PT
Review:  I had been waiting for this game for quite some time and now it's finally here. I just finished 
 it about an hour ago and...... what a ride! First off I want to say that the menus in TD are one 
 of the best that I've ever seen in a game. Not only does the background look great with the tentacle-like 
 objects in the background, but the menus are just very easy to get through. For instance, when 
 you first go to the main menu and you want to continue your progress, your one click away and BAM, 
 there you are. The weapons in this game are pretty nice as well. You have pistols, which are duel, 
 you have shotguns, AK's, M16's, etc. Pretty much the weapons you would expect from an FPS, minus 
 the grenades. When you get up close to an enemy and press the fire button, they do a special execution 
 move. It's pretty amazing. Unfortunately, those are the moments where the character animations 
 look best, because at other times, they can look kind of zombie like. For the visuals, sometimes 
 you'll say Wow, this looks awesome! while other times, it just looks pretty good. The textures 
 looks great but like all other games, get too close and they get muddy. I should not that you can 
 get a few slowdowns every now and then. It's not something that will make you want to stop playing. 
 I can probably count the amount of times that I saw it. The Darkness sports some nice sound effects 
 that I wasn't able to witness fully because of my limitations. I'm missing some kind of cord that 
 could make my sound better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tallwhitemocha
Rating: 7.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  I was a fan of the comics (of which this game is based of f the second run i. e. no flashy costume 
 or wisecracking darklings) and so was hella syked when I heard about a game adaptation and so far 
 it hasn't let me down much. My biggest beef with the game is with the graphics; they aren't 360 
 caliber. They look like the last year of Xbox games which I found very disappointing. My other 
 problem is with the way Jackie looks. He looks like an aenemic coke head instead of a dark and 
 brooding mafia hitman . Other than that I've found the game enjoyable as hell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swift18
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  I just finnsihed it up today. And this was a great game there was glitch where aunt sarah was hanging 
 out the window like she was sitting it was really weird and you coulnt kill her all your could 
 do is listen. but any way i loved it i really hope theres alt endings other wise im going to be 
 really disappointed but i guess ill just have to play again. Also i wish the left guy would do 
 something the one on the right does everrrry thing kinda enoying and repetitive. Hope theres a 
 sequel but i hope they do a little better on the story it was a little flat for my taste so far 
 unless as i said alt ending. Also the only thing this has incomon with the comic is Jakie thats 
 really it every thing els is tooootaly different personally the comic has a better story. Maybe 
 the movie will be better lol. o and there is no lag on the ps3 version and it looks amazing so 
 if people are saying other wise you know the truth lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jandogg
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 27, 2007 6:39 am PT
Review:  i think its one of the best first person shooters ever... it has awesome graphics... nice game play... 
 cool gurgling noises when u kill people and lots more!
  man these games are soooooo cool
  
  its actually pretty nice u could speek to people when ur online.. i really like dat
  and 
 u could turn into a darkling... it would be pretty cool if u kood turn to kamakazee... gunner... or 
 electric... cuz the berserker isnt that great... but the same time kinda funcuz u slash people 
 to death! lols its awesome!
  
  and in single player the darkness powers rock!! i mean picking a helicopter when its flying ... 
 thats just awesome... and making a fricking black hole !! lol!!
  but the creeping thingy isnt that greats... i guess its fun in a wierd war... oh what the heck 
 riping peoples faces is AWESOME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: god13g
Rating: 8.7
Date: Aug 8, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  sorry that i dont have much to say but this game is a game thats really a game worth buying if 
 u like games filled with bloood, gooore, violence and cool moves like blow ur lag then ur brains 
 out the HELL YA BUY THIS GAME IT ROCKS!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  and if ur looking for a butterfly caching game THEN GET THE HELL OUT OF HEAR 
 
  but the game is playing with a hitman and u have to make the enemy fear u this time not the enemy 
 nop u make them fear u use crazy darkholes and make them sufere and thats how to play the game
 
  1. enjoy being a ruler of the darkness 2. life is short sometimes but not for u (LOL)
  3. have 2 snakes fighting for dinner
  4. and last have a little darkling walk u to victory 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MusashiSensi
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jun 26, 2007 7:55 pm PT
Review:  I have to say that I was drawn in by The Darkness the first time I saw the trailer about two years 
 ago. I Mean you have a mafia hitman who's uncle tries to kill him, who's powers awaken on his 21st 
 birthday (Dark Powers) &amp; is out for vengence. What more can you ask for?! The Gameplay is nicely 
 done, but if you're not into FPS (First Person Shooters) then I'd say either give it a try or rent 
 it. The story really drags you in and makes you actually feel for Jackie (Main Character) The music 
 is very nice as well and the voice acting fits every the main characters very well. All in All 
 The Darkness is a great game to me and I am very happy to have lived to see &amp; play this game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dr_DudeMan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2007 5:31 pm PT
Review:  Here are my thoughts from the thread in systems wars: believe the hype, the darkness owns 
  
  I agree, the SP thus far is phenomenal. If you read the good reviews, you can tell they relied 
 on darkness powers and the bad reviews relied on weapons. Therefore I highly recommend the darkness 
 powers. This is one of the funnest shooters I have ever played and I am not a big shooter fan. 
 (If its not about half-life 2 caliber in entertainment I dont like it )
  
  To be honest though. The graphics are not as good as I expected considering the hype. I mean some 
 things look fantastic and some things dont. Most textures look very high rez but some dont. So 
 some things are hit an miss but as for fun, good story, and innovative this game gets it absolutely 
 right.
  
  GrlGmr wrote: Waiting for more reviews to come in, but I looked at the user reviews for the 360 
 version, and the approximately 18% 'abysmal' rate doesn't exactly inspire my confidence.
  
  Thats because there are a lot of poo heads on gamespot that like to give abyssmals to just about 
 every game. I dont understand why but most games start at about a user review of 7.0 because of 
 this so I only read the written user reviews because if they went through the effort of writing 
 a real review then you know your getting a true opinion of the game.
  
  RevenMan wrote: I think the game is great and its a breath of fresh air from other shooters. I 
 haven't beaten it yet but i have played for like 3-4 hours and i think the single player part of 
 the game is awesome i still havent tried multiplayer tough. I think its a must buy. The problems 
 with the framerate are berely noticable the only thing i will agree is that the AI isnt that good, 
 but the great story, graphics and gameplay make up for it.
  
  To alleviate the AI issue play on hard. Its tough but as your powers grow it gets easier and the 
 ai is actually pretty good. Also I forgot to mention that the extra content on the ps3 version 
 rocks. Just about every top cow comic series is on the disk including witchblade and lots and lots 
 of videos. I cant wait to unlock them all. Just reading all these great comic series are going 
 to up the replay value of this a lot for me. And the MP is not a disappointment IMO. I think its 
 fun. I like to screw around in MP sometimes and this and motorstorm will be perfect for that and 
 then sc and cs 1.6 will still be my hardcore mp games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 26, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  This is my second FPS on the PS3 and it's a great one too. You are Jackie Estacado who is the best 
 hitman for your uncle paulie. The game starts that you're in a car and you're send out for a hit 
 for your uncle but everything goes wrong and you find out that your uncle paulie wants you dead 
 on your 21st birthday for being too ambitious. From there you pick up and start wasting dudes away. 
 You always have a girl friend named Jenny who you protect and hide the truth about what it is that 
 you really do. Gameplay in this game is what makes it so great. You have these darkness powers 
 that you get the more you kill in the dark make sense huh. Well you have these too long tentacles 
 arms that come from your back and eat what you kill. You can use them to get to hard to reach places 
 and also kill lights for you. You also have the berserker who can help you out with puzzles, doors, 
 and gates in the game. The graphics in this game are nothing out of this world but they still look 
 great. Especially the special effects in the dark with blur effect which looks cool. It makes you 
 want to kill all the lights just so you can see the special effects in the dark. The Sound in the 
 game is pretty cool. It has that hardcore demonic type of music which blends in great with the 
 game. Theres also online multiplayer with at least 8 -10 maps you play as a fake mobsters that 
 which back and forth from mobsters to darklings. If you're looking for another way of playing a 
 first person shooter this summer which fun gameplay then you should definitely go out and buy this 
 game. There is a lot of fun to be had in this one. It's made by the same people from Riddick so 
 this game can not go around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siferalmazy
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jun 25, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  This, at its core is a first person shooter that plays exactly like other shooters, except you 
 are the darkness. This game lets you be the horror, instead of facing it. You will strike fear 
 in hearts. Here is a few examples of the power you get. You recieve the ability to grow semi-tentacles 
 out of your back once you've been in shadow long enough. This ability allows you rip people apart 
 and eat them, take alot more damage than usual, makes you a little faster, makes you blend into 
 shadows more, you can send them through the shadows to go places you can't go and to spot for enemies. 
 You also get the ability to summon things called darklings. They help you beat puzzles and help 
 you to fight.
  
  There are a variety of darklings to choose from and vary the aspects a little bit. Later in the 
 game you recieve the power to create dark portals. This is a interesting power because it sucks 
 everybody into it. The shooting in the game is better than some but its equal to most. The AI in 
 this game is pretty sharp at some points and can get intense.
  
  In order to build up power to use your powers you must enter the shadows for a set amount of time. 
 Since shadows are all over the place, its not very hard to do. The game in total is about 10 hours, 
 plus the story is good enough to play it more than once. The online multiplayer is fun for a while 
 but gets old fast. In the online you play as a human who can turn into a darkling, but neither 
 is greatly interesting. If your looking for the next huge multiplayer game, this one is probably 
 not going to be it.
  
  The sound in the game is good, but not great enough to be considered next gen sound. The characters 
 in the game also love to use hand motions. Why? Who knows. This is not a big issue, but its kind 
 of wierd.
  
  The graphics in this game are great, but the lighting isn't as good as the 360 version. Everything 
 looks clean for the most part as far as the environments go. It also looks really great to tear 
 the enemies into bloody hunks with your powers. But hence the name the darkness you'll need to 
 be in shadow and in dark areas alot to charge your powers.
  
  Its not the hardest game, but the difficulty is pretty good and stays intense. The powers definetly 
 is the selling point for the game. Like i said before, this time you get to be the horror villian 
 which is a great aspect. This game has a open city and not linear plot. Alot of the city isn't 
 used as much as you would probably want though. There are also times where you don't go around 
 killing things constantly. Like a mission where you visit family.
  
  If your into FPS with a sci-fi kick to it, this could be your game. All of you online multiplayer 
 fans, probably won't be unbelievably thrilled with the multiplayer. So if thats why you want it, 
 you might want to avoid it. This game is absolutely worth a rental, but makes a great purchase. 
 All in all i give the darkness a 9.2 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
