-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Eye of Judgment
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/puzzle/theeyeofjudgment/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Unique use of PlayStation Eye creates an interesting mix of real card battling and onscreen action.
 Solid mechanics are easy to pick up but subtle enough to keep you coming back for more.
 Dramatic visuals and sound.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 If you don't have a buddy to sit down and play with, the hardware can be more trouble than it's worth.
 No single-player campaign.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 19, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.5
Critic Score: 7.6, 45 Review (s)
User Score: 8.2, 802 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: SCEA
Developer: SCEI
Genre: Card Battle
Date: Oct 24, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
If you like playing trading-card games with your friends, you'll appreciate Eye of Judgment's unique 
 take on the genre. 

  There's really nothing like Eye of Judgment: You set up a PlayStation Eye in a special stand, lay 
 out a cloth map underneath it, and use real cards to do battle under the watchful gaze of the camera. 
 The Eye senses the moves of both you and your opponent, and the ensuing action plays out in dramatic 
 splendor on your television screen. It's a gutsy design move that deserves props for doing something 
 legitimately different, and it's that streak of originality that appeals to the geeky card collector 
 in many of us. This kind of niche presentation isn't likely to spark a gaming revolution, but it 
 goes a long way toward keeping Eye of Judgment fresh.  

           Kudos to the guy in charge of naming the spells.      

  Take away all the hullabaloo, 
 and you're left with an unassuming package that features solid card mechanics. The game mat is 
 a grid that consists of nine squares, and your goal is to take over five of them. You begin each 
 game with five cards drawn randomly from your deck of 30, and at the beginning of every turn, you 
 are given two mana points to use, in addition to others you may have accumulated. Summoning cards 
 are the most common, and placing one beckons a monster or machine to the playing field. Some, such 
 as the giant axe dwarf, are fairly standard attack units. Others, such as se hollyn fortress, strengthen 
 surrounding allied cards. And yet others have even more complex functions, such as the ever-helpful 
 white cubic, which can be sacrificed and replaced by any creature in your hand.  

  There are spell cards as well, and their uses are often subtler but no less effective. Each square 
 on the board has an elemental affiliation, as does the underside of the square. Many of the best 
 spells, such as fissures of goghlie, change the active element by flipping the square. This can 
 have a devastating effect on the unit residing there, because units that share the same element 
 as their occupied square receive a health bonus. You can also spend mana points on already-placed 
 units by commanding them to attack or turning them 90 degrees. Like many collectible card games, 
 Eye of Judgment is easy to learn but tough to master, considering that there are a lot of subtle 
 elements at work. But if it looks initially intimidating, don't turn to the in-game tutorial for 
 guidance. It's awfully boring and completely hands-off, like the videos you have to watch on your 
 first day at a fast-food job.  

  Eye of Judgment is at its best when you can sit down with a buddy and geek out together, setting 
 up the hardware and staring one another down, one card at a time. Of course, you could do this 
 without all the hullabaloo of a PlayStation 3 and the accompanying accoutrements, but there's something 
 to be said for the added drama of watching summoned fantasy and steampunk creatures battle onscreen 
 with swords and cannons. Players are essentially what the terrific opening cutscene depicts: Powerful 
 wizards with the fate of the world in their hands, sending their minions into the heat of battle. 
 The experience can be pretty awesome thanks to the tactical nature of real card play, combined 
 with the impressive, vivid clashes that play out onscreen.  

  If you don't have a friend to join you, you can still play against the computer or online, but 
 this is where Eye of Judgment staggers. Once the game is taken out of the social element that makes 
 it shine, it becomes just another trading-card game. You can play on your own against the artificial 
 intelligence, and it manages to be fun for a while. However, you can only play one-off matches. 
 There's no single-player campaign of any kind, which not only would have helped round out the package, 
 but also could have provided a better introduction to the mechanics than the mundane tutorial. 
 In its place is the inexplicable judgment mode, which involves placing two cards on the mat to 
 see which is more powerful. You'd think that the judgment would be represented by a spectacular 
 onscreen battle, but the little piece of action you get to see just fizzles. It's an essentially 
 useless mode. And remember, you  have  to use the PlayStation Eye. If you feel like sitting back 
 with a beer in one hand and a controller in the other, it isn't going to happen. The game is fine 
 for your hardcore battle session, but not so great if you want to simply sit back and play without 
 dealing with the whole mat-and-camera rigmarole.  

  Online mode is even less conducive to a relaxed session of gaming. To avoid player cheating, the 
 computer randomly determines the cards you draw from your scanned deck, which forces you to search 
 through your physical deck every time you need to place a card down on the mat. It didn't have 
 to be a necessary evil, given that it could have been avoided by letting players use a registered 
 deck without requiring them to use the actual cards. It's worth noting that you can purchase additional 
 decks for $14.99 at retail outlets and online, and you can't use cards not included in the starter 
 deck unless they have been scanned beforehand. However, the Eye will often accept a high-quality 
 forgery, so it's quite possible you will find online opponents who are using cards they haven't 
 purchased. That isn't a big deal -- after all, you would find people who own those cards legitimately -- but 
 it's still a little unsettling. Apart from those inconveniences, the online mode is full-featured 
 in that it lets you easily invite a friend, create or join a custom match, or use matchmaking to 
 play a ranked game. When you first enter the online mode, you choose one of four fictional kingdoms 
 to represent, and the leaderboards rank players individually, as well as the kingdoms as a whole. 

  During our play-testing period, we had very few hardware-related issues. Even when the mat was 
 twisted or not perfectly lined up, the camera did a great job of reading the cards. Cards are read 
 relatively quickly, and it's easy to build a deck by placing the cards underneath the Eye. We did 
 encounter some problems when trying to register an online deck, but it was a small blip in an otherwise 
 seamless endeavor. The artwork on the cards is beautifully drawn, both onscreen and on the cards 
 themselves. Units are intricately detailed, and the cards give you all the unit information you 
 need without being unnecessarily cluttered with text.  

           The visual effects make quite a splash.      

  The sense of unfolding drama is one 
 of Eye of Judgment's greatest achievements, thanks to terrific visuals, both when you view the 
 gameplay grid proper and when you watch battles unfold. The game grid is presented with a beautiful 
 mix of clean lines, gorgeous backgrounds, and sparkling particle effects. However, battle animations 
 are the real treat, with imposing creature designs and weighty sound effects. Nevertheless, you 
 can turn off battle animations, which is a boon for players who want a quick match without dealing 
 with the visual drama. We're also big fans of how the avatar representing the Eye emerges from 
 the grid whenever a spell is cast. We're not such big fans of his voice, though. There isn't a 
 lot of voice acting, but what is there is uncomfortably overblown. The metal-heavy soundtrack sets 
 the right tone, though it can get a little grating after a while.  

  If you've got someone to play with, you'll find there is nothing quite like Eye of Judgment. Spreading 
 out your map, setting up your PlayStation Eye, and getting your cards ready is a cool addition 
 to the usual card-battle preparations, and in that context, the game is a real winner. The terrific 
 and subtle mechanics will keep you returning for more, and it's awesome to watch the battles unfold 
 as you play your cards. But that's the real problem: If you want to play on your own or online, 
 all that hardware may feel like more trouble than it's worth. Sure, the whole thing's a gimmick 
 that's aimed at a niche market. But at a retail price of $70, it's a real steal, considering the 
 package includes a PlayStation Eye camera. If you think that's a small price to pay for one of 
 the weirdest games ever made, then draw your cards.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (63 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: arthursiew
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 16, 2009 9:34 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard of Eye of Judgment, I knew that this game would rock. The way you play this 
 game sounded awesome and I knew I had to grab it. Luckily, I did. This game did not disappoint 
 at all, but I didn't find setting up the game enjoyable. The game itself is a nice exclusive to 
 the PS3 and I often find myself hearing my friends asking whether it is available on other consoles 
 and some of my friends purchased a PS3 for this game. I have to admit that this game would be a 
 must have PS3 game if you are willing to spend time setting it up. In general, I think the concept 
 of the game is better than Yu Gi Oh and I think that this game is the more 'unchildish' version 
 of Yu Gi Oh. I thought that the game was well thought out. It's kind of easy to start playing the 
 game, but if you have no clue of how to play... it can take 30 minutes to get familiar which isn't 
 that long. When you want to play, prepare to spend about 10 minutes (depending on the time you 
 haven't touched the game) setting it up. The game mat has to be flat or it can get troublesome. 
 The camera needs to be adjusted everytime before playing. I still think that the pros outweigh 
 the cons and I have to say that this game is innovative and it's a great way to start a PS3 collection. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepiesteve
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:09 am PT
Review:  This game is a far off exclusive for the ps3 lets put this straight you can get no game like this 
 for any other console, so brownie points to sony for this brilliant game. Basicly this game has 
 a setup of a camera, a camera stand, and mat and cards (no its not a game like yu-gi-oh and nothing 
 like it) You can play against a computer or a freind and the aim of the game is the first person 
 to put 5 cards down. The cards are card and look pritty good, basicly you put them on the designated 
 place on the board and the camera reconises it and puts in on the screen board. And i must say 
 the graphics are amazing (i am using a 1080i hd setup in my room)
  
  The only problem about this game is that you need good light (but a lamp sorts this out) and it 
 lacks a story mode, this means if you can only play it by yourself, then you have the choice to 
 play computers over and over again, or play real people online wich i am still yet to do.
  
  Overall this game is very cool and i suggest any card playing gameplayer out there to buy it.
 
  
  I picked this up brand new of ebay for 32 pounds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Qornut
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 19, 2008 12:28 pm PT
Review:  There's really nothing like Eye of Judgment: You set up a PlayStation Eye in a special stand, lay 
 out a cloth map underneath it, and use real cards to do battle under the watchful gaze of the camera. 
 The Eye senses the moves of both you and your opponent, and the ensuing action plays out in dramatic 
 splendor on your television screen. It's a gutsy design move that deserves props for doing something 
 legitimately different, and it's that streak of originality that appeals to the geeky card collector 
 in many of us. This kind of niche presentation isn't likely to spark a gaming revolution, but it 
 goes a long way toward keeping Eye of Judgment fresh. Take away all the hullabaloo, and you're 
 left with an unassuming package that features solid card mechanics. The game mat is a grid that 
 consists of nine squares, and your goal is to take over five of them. You begin each game with 
 five cards drawn randomly from your deck of 30, and at the beginning of every turn, you are given 
 two mana points to use, in addition to others you may have accumulated. Summoning cards are the 
 most common, and placing one beckons a monster or machine to the playing field. Some, such as the 
 giant axe dwarf, are fairly standard attack units. Others, such as se hollyn fortress, strengthen 
 surrounding allied cards. And yet others have even more complex functions, such as the ever-helpful 
 white cubic, which can be sacrificed and replaced by any creature in your hand. There are spell 
 cards as well, and their uses are often subtler but no less effective. Each square on the board 
 has an elemental affiliation, as does the underside of the square. Many of the best spells, such 
 as fissures of goghlie, change the active element by flipping the square. This can have a devastating 
 effect on the unit residing there, because units that share the same element as their occupied 
 square receive a health bonus. You can also spend mana points on already-placed units by commanding 
 them to attack or turning them 90 degrees. Like many collectible card games, Eye of Judgment is 
 easy to learn but tough to master, considering that there are a lot of subtle elements at work. 
 But if it looks initially intimidating, don't turn to the in-game tutorial for guidance. It's awfully 
 boring and completely hands-off, like the videos you have to watch on your first day at a fast-food 
 job. Eye of Judgment is at its best when you can sit down with a buddy and geek out together, setting 
 up the hardware and staring one another down, one card at a time. Of course, you could do this 
 without all the hullabaloo of a PlayStation 3 and the accompanying accoutrements, but there's something 
 to be said for the added drama of watching summoned fantasy and steampunk creatures battle onscreen 
 with swords and cannons. Players are essentially what the terrific opening cutscene depicts: Powerful 
 wizards with the fate of the world in their hands, sending their minions into the heat of battle. 
 The experience can be pretty awesome thanks to the tactical nature of real card play, combined 
 with the impressive, vivid clashes that play out onscreen. If you don't have a friend to join you, 
 you can still play against the computer or online, but this is where Eye of Judgment staggers. 
 Once the game is taken out of the social element that makes it shine, it becomes just another trading-card 
 game. You can play on your own against the artificial intelligence, and it manages to be fun for 
 a while. However, you can only play one-off matches. There's no single-player campaign of any kind, 
 which not only would have helped round out the package, but also could have provided a better introduction 
 to the mechanics than the mundane tutorial. In its place is the inexplicable judgment mode, which 
 involves placing two cards on the mat to see which is more powerful. You'd think that the judgment 
 would be represented by a spectacular onscreen battle, but the little piece of action you get to 
 see just fizzles. It's an essentially useless mode. And remember, you have to use the PlayStation 
 Eye. If you feel like sitting back with a beer in one hand and a controller in the other, it isn't 
 going to happen. The game is fine for your hardcore battle session, but not so great if you want 
 to simply sit back and play without dealing with the whole mat-and-camera rigmarole. Online mode 
 is even less conducive to a relaxed session of gaming. To avoid player cheating, the computer randomly 
 determines the cards you draw from your scanned deck, which forces you to search through your physical 
 deck every time you need to place a card down on the mat. It didn't have to be a necessary evil, 
 given that it could have been avoided by letting players use a registered deck without requiring 
 them to use the actual cards. It's worth noting that you can purchase additional decks for $14.99 
 at retail outlets and online, and you can't use cards not included in the starter deck unless they 
 have been scanned beforehand. However, the Eye will often accept a high-quality forgery, so it's 
 quite possible you will find online opponents who are using cards they haven't purchased. That 
 isn't a big deal -- after all, you would find people who own those cards legitimately -- but it's still 
 a little unsettling. Apart from those inconveniences, the online mode is full-featured in that 
 it lets you easily invite a friend, create or join a custom match, or use matchmaking to play a 
 ranked game. When you first enter the online mode, you choose one of four fictional kingdoms to 
 represent, and the leaderboards rank players individually, as well as the kingdoms as a whole. 
 During our play-testing period, we had very few hardware-related issues. Even when the mat was 
 twisted or not perfectly lined up, the camera did a great job of reading the cards. Cards are read 
 relatively quickly, and it's easy to build a deck by placing the cards underneath the Eye. We did 
 encounter some problems when trying to register an online deck, but it was a small blip in an otherwise 
 seamless endeavor. The artwork on the cards is beautifully drawn, both onscreen and on the cards 
 themselves. Units are intricately detailed, and the cards give you all the unit information you 
 need without being unnecessarily cluttered with text. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evilkarim2000
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 4:43 am PT
Review:  WOW!!! The Eye of Judgment is one of the best games I have ever seen, and is definitely worth buying!!! 
 When I first started playing it, it totally blew my mind. What an amazing improvement to the already 
 revolutionary eye toy!!! if you own a PlayStation 3, and want a refreshing change to the games 
 that you already play, then The Eye of Judgment is definitely the game for you!!! I think that 
 the only real problem with this game is the fact that eventually you will get bored of it, and 
 will need to buy the new expansion pack! However, if I was you, if go and buy this game right 
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
   
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 6:37 am PT
Review:  If you are a fan of turn based Collection Card games like Yu-Gi-Oh and Magic, then this is a must 
 have game. All your dreams come true in the fact that the monsters on your cards come to life on 
 your TV screen and actually battle it out.
  
  The Fighting sequenses are actually quite entertaining and it really just adds that little more 
 to the normal little card games you usually play. 
  
  I have an issue with the camera though in my house. If the lighting isn't 100% correct, you will 
 find yourself spending a good few minutes trying to get the cam to recognize the cards. This is 
 a little annoying, but there are ways around that. I found that adding a Desk lamp helps wonders. 
 
  
  At first you think that this game is going to be over in a second as the only thing you need to 
 do is to capture 5 squares, only to realize that it's not all that simple. There are a lot of restrictions 
 and rules that need to be followed and that adds another layer to this game that just makes it 
 more fun and challenging. 
  
  A fantastic new idea, pulled off really well. Fantastic Sound track and graphics makes for a number 
 one card game position in my books. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  Eye of Judgment is what some would think of as Yu-gi-oh! come to life. Cards are played on a mat, 
 and they show up on screen through the use of the Eye (camera) . Battles between the monsters are 
 also carried out on screen in great graphics. The technology behind the game is quite impressive, 
 though it can get picky about reading the cards, especially if the lighting conditions are too 
 dark or too bright.
  
  Gameplay 7- Playing with friends or online the game can be quite fun. Against the CPU though that's 
 another story, it always seems to somehow get the upper hand, even on the easier difficulties. 
 Other than card battling there really isn't much else to do, it would have been nice to at least 
 have some story behind it.
  
  Graphics 8- The visuals are the strongest point of the game and look really well with the PS3 to 
 back them up.
  
  Sound 7- Nice voice overs and music. The announcer can get a bit annoying after a time. 
  
 
  Fun Factor 7- This is one of those games that starts out really interesting, but it can quickly 
 lose its luster.
  
  Replay Value 6- Like any other collectible card game, its best to have other people to play with. 
 Another awkward point is that in order to use the 2nd set of cards, you have to 1. go purchase 
 them, and 2. purchase a content pack online that enables use of the 2nd set. This seems really 
 dumb since you are paying for the extra cards already. The card game itself can also be played 
 without the Eye and PS3 entirely, like a regular CCG. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjatim
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 20, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  Those people who say this game is just for card trader nuts are completely wrong. I've never traded 
 a card in my life, however i found myself watching the trailer thinking this could be a interesting 
 title. Reason being, there is a lack of at home multiplayers on the PS3 at present so when friends 
 come round, its usually a session on COD4 taking it in turns or playing the WII. YAWN. This game 
 has provided me with all the strategy of strategy game, an essense of chess, the competition of 
 friend vs friend in the same room whilst drinking a beer, and the splendour of the PS3's graphics 
 on my 46" LCD. I for one am glad i bought this game and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys 
 playing computer games with friends at home and also enjoys Violence, playability, originality 
 in their games. Geek??? No such Word in the PS3 world 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONSTON007
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 27, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  At first glance I thought I would really like this game because in the past I have looked playing 
 more interactive games (excluding the Wii) . Because of all the crap that comes with the bargain 
 packet for Eye of Judgment, I was frustrated when it became hard to position the camera in the 
 right place so that it could view the cards. The videos in the game are really cool though, but 
 you can see all of them on YOUTUBE. Finally, after all the setting up I had to do, I built it up 
 too much in my head that the game was ruined. Worst of all everyone I knew was mocking me for playing 
 this game AND THEY KNOW I AM A NERD!! All in all, it could have been way better if they had a single 
 player campaign, a little more story, and less expensive cards. By the way, it is extremely easy 
 to copy cards so that you can use them any time during the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HatchetKill
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:58 am PT
Review:  Just as I brought Warhawk for the headset, I brought Eye Of Judgement for the Playstation Eye. 
 But unlike Warhawk this game will sit on the shelf. I have had quite a few goes at playing this 
 mind buster, yet everytime I play it, it seems more confussing and a lot less enjoyable. I've tried 
 to get into this game but just dont get it. To be honest it seems to be the worst game I have come 
 across. I believe you will get more enjoyment out of playing cool boarders over and over again 
 for a year or so. I have never writen a bad reveiw on any game until now. I feel if someone is 
 willing to read this then they must be interested in the game, I suggest buying a buying a wet 
 fish and slapping yourself with it because it will be more fun. I will say I am sorry I ever brought 
 this game, they only good thing that comes out of it is the fact that it comes with the playstation 
 eye, but really i should have just brought the eye separately and save the lost time spent scratching 
 my head over this monster. When I brought Warhawk I didnt expect much from the game and it delievered 
 efverything I was looking for in a game, but this eye of judgement should have a boring warning 
 or something on the cover. HatchetKill 
::::::

::::::
UserName: logghie
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 22, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgement is a cool game with cards, that uses the new PlaystaitionEye Camera. I think 
 it works quite well, though sometime the card recognition system has it's flaws. Most of the time 
 you have to readjust the card just a bit and it works perfectly fine again. Sadly, there is no 
 Singleplayer mode is this game it doesn't has a storyline. The Online mode is quite hard to play. 
 First you have to register a Deck Online. You have to register every card of your deck with the 
 camera. You can't have a card in your deck you don't actually have. The Online mode and the rules 
 of the game takes some time to understand, but although you can get a bit angry from time to time ( 
 mostly in the beginning) . In my opinion this game is really nice. If you like card games or would 
 like to yu gi oh in nice graphics this game is what you need. The complete package contains: The 
 Eye of Judgement game, a Starter Deck consisting of 30 Monster an Spell Cards, The Playstation 
 Eye, a Boosterpack containing 8 Monster and/or Spell cards, 4 function cards, The Eye of Judgement 
 playing Deck (where you put your cards on) , a contraption where you can put the camera during gameplay. 
 That's about it. Decide yourself, but i for myself have decided, that i love this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokas1
Rating: 10
Date: May 10, 2008 3:53 am PT
Review:  From where should we begin? Well nowhere , as the game starts itself. Got the cards? Go and play? Like 
 to duel one same guy online? Duel him? Are you a pirate? Play it. Are you a multi-millionaire? Play 
 it. Are you a local fan boy in middle age of 15? Don't play it. As the game hasn't got any storyline 
 , good online play it has horrible cost of it. No-one should be suprised that people cheat with 
 codes. I mean it should be legal... Any way... What can we say? Like rock music? Good. Like nice Yu-Gi-Oh 
 animations? Very good? Do you have intelligence and can beat COM on hard mode? Good. You must asnwered 
 all questions possitive , because this game is only for you if you answered all of them ''yes''.
 
  !''NOTE''! - The game is rated 10 if you answered all questions yes. If one of them or few was 
 ''no'' , then -5 from 10. That's my thougt's. Oh and by the way , Iam true TCG fan , but don't know 
 why , but this game sucks... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  I waited a long time before deciding to finally purchase this game, The main reason is the cards 
 you have to purchase, and if you want to play with a friend A. theyll need a deck of their own 
 B. theyll need the game at home to entice them purchasing a deck.
  
  
  Graphics = Really good visuals, I was surprised by some of the animations and particle effects. 
 The battles are RPG standard though.
  
  Difficulty = Getting used to using the elements and the directions you face the cards is pretty 
 easy and during the day I never have an issue with the camera finding cards. However at night with 
 lamps and such, Ive had a few issues with the camera not finding cards.
  
  Fun Factor = Pretty high providing youve got someone to play with. There is no single player campaign 
 but you can go online which I dont recommend until youve got your deck sorted out to the way you 
 like.
  
  Learning Curve = Each games time really depends on the cards you draw so games can last from minutes 
 to an hour or more. Learning your deck might take several games to see what works best with your 
 play style.
  
  Replay Value = Buying new cards will surely change the game but, Its alot more fun with someone 
 sitting in front of you, instead of playing by yourself
  
  Value = The game with a camera is a great deal for such an innovative game, However paying $5 for 
 an 8 pack of cards which usually ends up in many unusable doubles is a rip off if you ask me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DuhQbnSiLo
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 2, 2008 7:29 pm PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgement is a virtual card game played with real cards and the Playstation Eye. The 
 Eye reads the cards and displays them on your screen. If you think about it, its a pretty cool 
 idea. The only problem is the actual gameplay which falls short of the plan. It looks a bit weak 
 when damage is displayed in 1-6. When your playing, you don't get the feeling your doing major 
 damage. The cards look great and the eye reads them prefectly, and the holigrams look so cool. 
 They even react to when you poke them, and look at your finger. Online, EoJ is solid and runs great 
 and is put together well. My only problem is the damage, they should at least used 10s instead 
 of 1s. If your a card game fan, this is a must play and you should try it, its great idea and i 
 hope more games use this tech. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Konkero
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Eye of judgment was a huge leap in gaming, using a camera (Playstations 3 eye) , to summon monsters 
 on your television is freaking awesome. But just like any other card games like Yugio and any others 
 known to date cost money to upgrade your deck. The whole set of TCG Eye of Judgment cost 70 dollars 
 and comes with the stand, Playstation 3 eye, game sheet, the game itself, and a beginner deck. 
 Now you can't say you can win with that deck given by the creators. You want to get stronger to 
 increase you rank on the gamer board. Now to do that, you should buy some booster deck to improve 
 your game plan. The booster decks cost 4 dollars and the theme decks are 15. Not so pricey; wanting 
 to buy more cards every single day is a bit too much. Plus you keep getting the same cards again 
 and again. Soon you will have 5 of the same cards and you have nothing to do with them since the 
 game requires only 3 of the same cards. That's a huge problem. Eye of judgment should fit that 
 reoccurring problem so new gamers won't have to waste their money on getting the same cards. Maybe 
 with Biolth rebellion would change how a buyer gets their cards. That is the only thing I have 
 to say to EOJ, either than that good graphics and a good game to play amongst friends. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:19 am PT
Review:  Card games are so popular these days and its no surprise that SCEE has done the right thing by 
 bringing the genre to consoles for the first time with Eye of Judgement. The major change from 
 card to console is that you actually see the monsters on the cards on your Tv screen. Everything 
 looks really nice and the creatures look amazing. You even have a real deck of cards to play with. 
 It has a fully functioning online mode too. The object of the game is to occupy 5 fields with 5 
 monsters. Not easy because creatures can attack or spells can be used. The only major flaws are 
 that it may be too complex for beginners. But thankfully it offers some guidance. But it can be 
 frustrating if you get the Eye in the wrong place. A solo mode would have been nice but this is 
 all about playing against other people which is when its most fun. If your a fan of card games 
 Eye of Judgement is a must but I still recommend it because it comes with the PS Eye free. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 22, 2008 12:42 pm PT
Review:  Eye of judgement is a great TCG that maked great use of the Playstation Eye. 
  
  Gameplay-
  The gameplay in The Eye of Judgement is great. It runs smoothly and the eye performs 
 greatly. It rarely messes up or misreads the cards. The booming voice that announces everything 
 just adds to the experience. Its really fun with a friend and partially fun facing the CPU which 
 has a lot less tricks or surprises which can make the game boring. Since there is an online mode 
 you rarely just play the CPU when you can plays someone anyways.
  
  Graphics-
  The Eye of Judgement has great graphics, there crisp and clean, pretty top notch. The frame rate 
 never gives up and is smooth throughout.
  
  Online-
  Online play is usually pretty quick to find a match and is fun and entertains the best of players.
 
  
  Overall this game is a great game for any TCG player or someone looking for a hobby. Its pretty 
 cheap, about 90 bucks for the game, starter deck, and playstation eye. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FlashCharge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 8:03 am PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgment is its best when played with a friend. The computer challenge has no mercy 
 and takes the fun out of the game. The game is an expense. 70 bucks to purchase game, one 30 card 
 deck, and the eye all included. But there are additional decks, 5 in all at 15 bucks each. Then 
 booster packs 8 cards each, at 4 bucks each. Then there are 2 new sets coming out soon, the first 
 set in March. This is one expense game but is it worthwhile and enjoyable? The graphics are excellent 
 and the eye works extremely well. But you need a good light source especially at night. The White 
 Cubic will bring a smile to your face. The game is challenging and the Eye of Judgment website 
 is very good in teaching you the basics. The only complaint I have is in collecting mana. Mana 
 is the ingredient to do all of the actions, summon new creatures, or to use spells. It takes time 
 to accumulate enough mana to allow for greater game play which would add to the fun. It is a game 
 that the whole family can play and would provide hours of entertainment. With the addition of new 
 cards sets coming out, the game changes it look but not its game play. All in all, my family and 
 friends have enjoyed this game, but remember the true value of Eye of Judgment is playing with 
 real gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xepheon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 19, 2008 11:05 am PT
Review:  When you're looking for a break from your everyday games, "The Eye of Judgment" delivers. Those 
 who are interested in the unique and innovative (and PS3 exclusive) will want to take a good look 
 at this game. This is the kind of thing you show off to your friends.
  
  First, it comes with the PS3 Eyetoy, which is a great quality cam! Keep in mind that the cam also 
 functions as a mic. If you're playing the game online, now you can chat (headset free) as well. 
 Note that the mic doesn't function automatically -- you have to enable it in the XMB.
  
  The game is as cool as it sounds. You have a deck of cards with quality artwork and impressive 
 characters and creatures. And when you play a card, the creature springs forth from the card and 
 comes to life on your screen. I play the game in 1080i and they didn't skimp one bit in the graphics 
 department. Visually, this game is a treat. It's gorgeous.
  
  Forget the notion that "Eye of Judgment" is a cheap card-game rip off; The game has its own unique 
 history and the characters are both imaginative and interesting and not generic. Yes, there are 
 trademark creatures like goblins, however, even the goblins are portrayed in a refreshing manner.
 
  
  In fact, one of the high points of this game that must be noted is how vivid the characters and 
 creatures are. Each one has its own unique personality and voice acting; the voice acting is superb. 
 When you put down a Sun God card, you hear a deep, scary, bellowing Sun God that sounds like he 
 is going to obliterate everything. Goblins sound mischevious and excited, and the giant Biolith 
 (machine) creatures sound like hi-tech monsters. The creatures have many different things to say 
 when they are taunting each other and winning or suffering defeat.
  
  The game is challenging and fun to play against the computer when you start off. I don't know anyone 
 else who plays yet, but of course you can play online as well. For now, I am practicing my technique. 
 There is a lot of strategy involved and cards can affect each other, such as providing bonuses 
 when played a certain way. For example, a Giant Axe Dwarf and the Flying Dwarf will receive a bonus 
 to attack and protection if their cards are on the field at the same time (they must be pals) . 
 You can put down a fortress which will give protection bonuses to all adjacent allies. Furthermore, 
 the cards can face any of 4 directions to either attack or defend against a specific enemy.
  
  You get a starter pack, which is a full deck, with the game, along with a booster pack of 8 
 cards. So, there are more cards to buy, but so far, I've been able to win with the ones I have. 
 How you build your deck of 30 cards is an important part of your strategy, and you can have eight 
 decks registered on the game. I'm going to buy new cards when I find out where they sell! Aside 
 from the fun of discovering new creatures, there's also the fun of seeing them come to life in 
 the game. 
  
  I actually would have given this game a 9.0, but I took .5 off for the music. The music isn't bad 
 by any means, but I would prefer that they provided other music styles aside from instrumental 
 rock. It's a fantasy game; it would have been really nice if they had put an epic fantasy score 
 in to accompany the epic fantasy battles. You can turn the music off, however.
  
  I gave "The Eye of Judgment" an 8.5 because it does what it intends to do extremely well. Of course, 
 you will have more fun with this game if you find friends or a community that also plays, but that 
 shouldn't impact the game's score. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MitsubishiGTO
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 4:03 pm PT
Review:  I am not a card game fan and find myself really hard to get into them. Although, this game takes 
 away your imagination and puts it on the your television set with superb quality. This game has 
 awesome graphics and is addicting to play even against the computer. The game keeps you excited 
 and hooked to the next fighting scene. The game is challenging and strategy is definitely needed 
 for this game. It is suggested to watch the tutorials before playing but it wont take long to get 
 the hang of it although the game can get very difficult at times since there is many variations 
 of attacks. There is no other game like this out there to compare to. There is no story line that 
 will keep you playing only difficulty levels and different game boards to fight on. This game is 
 an excellent game for parties and for friends to come play. Overall, this game is surprisingly 
 good and great for the holidays when family is around the house. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seamusb
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 9:01 am PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgment is a peripheral based game consisting of many components. Starting with the 
 Playstation Eye, the latest version of the EyeToy designed for the Playstation 3. You place the 
 "Eye" on top of a plastic stand, from here it overlooks a playing mat you place underneath it. 
 And finally you have the cards with which you actually play the game with. You get a starter deck 
 of 30 pre-selected cards and a booster pack containing 8 randomly selected cards, allowing you 
 the create your own unique deck from the word go. The Playstation Eye, the plastic stand, the playing 
 mat and the cards all come with the game, so there's a lot to sort through before you even turn 
 the power on. Unless you can assign a permanent spot for this it can become annoying have to assemble 
 it all ever time you want to play.
  
  "Judge not, lest ye be judged."
  Fortunately a calibration tool helps players to set up their camera and playing mat quickly and 
 easily. Playing the game itself however is anything but quick and easy. There are some, rather 
 boring, tutorial videos you can go through to learn some of the basics. However a number of things 
 are left out and aren't even in the manual, things such as special abilities, like what does reincarnate 
 do. This can make it tough going for the first while; eventually you do get a feel for it and that's 
 when the game really opens up.
  
  The goal of the game is to conquer 5 out of 9 fields. You do this with your deck of 30 cards. Monster 
 cards are your main force with which you play and each monster has its own strength, weakness and 
 special ability. You also have spell cards which can increase the power of your creatures or even 
 change the landscape of the 9 fields. Each field has one of 5 elements (Fire, Water, Wood, Earth 
 and Biolith) and these elements have a profound effect on your monsters. It can make them stronger, 
 weaker or even affect your creatures special abilities. Like many card games it's easy to learn 
 but difficult to master.
  
  That's how you play the game but what happens when you actually place a card in front of the "EYE"? 
 All manner of High-Def Technicolor that's what. The computer detects the card you play and summons 
 the creature in full 3D to the corresponding square. The creatures are highly detailed and when 
 positioned to attack initiates a battle animation that is also gorgeous to watch. Particle and 
 spell effects are also very nice to look at. The sound effects are also suitable for the game but 
 music is a bit heavy on the metal and can begin the grate after a while.
  
  "Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment."
  You're given a number 
 of modes to actually play the game with. Starting with Battle Arena; here you challenge the computer 
 or a friend to a single match. As you defeat the computer you unlock more cards for it to play 
 with, but you still have to pay for the real cards if you want to use them. Card Profiles is next, 
 a virtual encyclopaedia for the cards. By placing a card in front of the Playstation Eye the creature 
 appears in full 3D, which can thing be moved or tilted. You can also look up some fictional background 
 information on the creature and its origins in the game world. Deck Builder is self explanatory 
 and is simply used to create a deck that you either take online or have the computer use against 
 you in a match. Judgment mode is a near pointless game in which you place creatures down in a manner 
 similar to Card Profile and the creatures face off. But not in any fancy manner, they just jump 
 on their spot, followed by the winner waving its arms and the losers doing their defeat animations. 
 Some form of battle animations would have brought much more to this mode but as it is it's simply 
 useless and might as well have been left out. 
  
  Finally we come to Online mode, perhaps the most important and best feature of this game. Similar 
 to Battle Arena mode you and a friend/ stranger battle each other with your cards. But to ensure 
 neither player cheats a number of extra features are added. First both players must first use deck 
 builder to register their decks to prove they really have the cards they say they have. And then 
 during the match itself instead of drawing the cards from the top of your deck the computer randomly 
 selects the cards for you. Having to root through your deck for the cards can be annoying if you 
 haven't already laid the cards out in front of you. Thanks to the online mode though you will almost 
 always have someone to play against
  
  However this doesn't change the fact that there is no campaign. Single matches against a faceless 
 A. I. in Battle Arena mode leaves little incentive to fight against it for long. The lack of a 
 campaign is further heightened by the background information provided with the cards. Why provide 
 detailed background for the creatures and their world but have no campaign mode to tie it all together?
 
  
  This game is not likely to attract newcomers to the card game genre but for those that already 
 enjoy cards games like Yu-Gi-Oh this Next-Gen experience is just what you have been waiting for. 
 The various cards provide near endless strategies, you could spend hours just setting up your deck, 
 and with a ruthless A. I. and online mode this game has high replay-ability. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwolf1982
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 6, 2007 5:47 am PT
Review:  Just picked it up today and MAN is it a complex game to get grasp of (at first) !
  Once I got everything set up and mastered the basic rules TEoJ, it is quite a surprisingly good 
 game to play. Sure you've got the hassles of setting up every time, but you gotta admit this game 
 has a high degree of "Expandability" with the Boosters available. I rather like the strategic gameplay 
 (considering I enjoy my fare share of strategy games) , the trading card side of it gives TEoJ an 
 interesting spin.
  I'm still learning how to play, but I'm beginning to find this game quite addictive if you know 
 what I mean... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigC43
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:28 am PT
Review:  The Good: Unique consept combining a trading card game and a console based stratagy game, excellent 
 graphics, includes the Playstation Eye, a deck of cards and a mat, very detailed and well thought 
 out tutorial videos.
  
  The Bad: You must be in a perfectly lit room for card recognition to work perfectly, is a pretty 
 complicated game, matches will take quite a while.
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  As a new PS3 owner, I knew one of the first games I had to try out for my new system was The Eye 
 of Judgement, which is a unique spin on the classic card battle games. Instead of you typical card 
 battles and such, The Eye of Judgement actually uses the included Playstation Eye to animate you 
 battles, giving the game a more unique and realistic feel. 
  
  The package you buy in stores includes the game on a Blu-Ray disc, a starter deck of cards, a Playstation 
 Eye (the next gen version of the Eye-Toy) and a battle mat. All of these components are used to 
 give gamers a unique experience. I would highly suggest watching all of the fairly lengthy tutorial 
 videos before hopping into a game. It is a pretty complicated game, and those looking for something 
 to pick up and play will be highly dissapointed, but once you learn how to play, it can be a lot 
 of fun.
  
  Each player has a deck of 30 cards. You may have up to three of the same card in most instances, 
 but there are several cards that only allow one of that card. After you set up the battle mat, 
 connect the Eye to the Eye of Judgement stand and get your deck ready to go, it's battle time!
 
  
  Each player get's a turn, where they must preform a variety of actions in various stages. I'm not 
 going to try to explain the stages, because that is what tutorial videos are for, but the game 
 is very spacific on what you can and cannot do at certain stages. You always start out by drawing 
 a card, then you can place a creature on the board, or use a spell, or cause a creature already 
 in play to attack an opposing creature. Everything you do in the game requires Mana, which you 
 gain two points of before each turn. Save your mana and unleash tougher creatures and spells, but 
 you might loose it if your opponent conquers the board before you play a creature. Each section 
 of the board has an element attributed to it. If you place a creature onto a space with it's element, 
 it will recieve a bonus, while if you place it onto the opposite of it's element, you will loose 
 HP.
  
  The gameplay itself is a lot of fun. My brother and I played one match for two hours, and really 
 weren't paying attention to the time. It is very addicting and a ton of fun, but unless you have 
 a good chunk of time on your hands and a buddy with the same amount, you might not have quite as 
 much fun with this game. It requires a few hours per match, so make sure you have the time before 
 starting a match.
  
  There are a few negatives to this solid and unique consept. The card reading system only works 
 well in a room that it lit to a very spacific set of specifications. If it isn't lit well, you 
 might need to bring an additional light source, which can get annoying after a while. The graphics 
 are top notch for the cartoony style of the game, but the voice acting can get annoying after a 
 while. You also have to have a good amount of time on your hands to play, since there is no kind 
 of quick play option.
  
  Overall, The Eye of Judgement is a solid card battle game that can be a blast because of it's unique 
 consept and will hopefully be a stepping stone for many more games just like it.
  
  Gameplay: Card battles in 3-D, how cool is that?
  
  Graphics: It has a cartoony style, but 
 it works well for the game's consept.
  
  Sound: Generic rock music and fairly annoying voice acting get old after a while.
  
  Value: 
 You get the entire pack new for $80, which isn't too bad considering what you are getting.
  
  Final Thoughts: Wow, now I feel like Yu-Gi-Oh! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Peewee20507
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  Don't listen to the guy that says you can just wright the bar code with sharpie you cant it has 
 a CyberCode matrix code that is only special to the Playstation eye. This game is fun because you 
 can play with a friend or the computer or online that has stats that can be quite fun to track. 
 You can also add more cards by buying new booster packs that add even more cards to enjoy. There 
 are more than 100 cards to choose from and more on the way. this pack is only $70 to buy including 
 the Playstation eye, The game and 30 cards plus 5 random cards. This is also cool because it has 
 a video after every summon and has amazing sound effects. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mez777
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2007 4:54 pm PT
Review:  This game is very innovative I will not deny that. But with a some more work it could have been 
 a innovative game that is a also a great game. My first complaint is if the games best part is 
 to play with a friend why does it not start you off with enough cards to do so. Also there is no 
 story which I did not know till after I bought that disappointed me greatly. This game would have 
 a gotten at least a 9 if it had a story mode even if it was a crappy one.
  But on the good side the game play is extremely cool and it is really fun to play with friends. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: newown
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 1:13 am PT
Review:  I got this game on October 30th 2007 . It was kinda hard for me when I played it for the first 
 few times . Then everything has been very easy .
  There is so many great things you can do while you battle people on-line . you can send them text 
 messages and voice chat . I usually spend alot of hours while playing with my friends on-line .
 
  
  The goods :-
  Sending text messages . ( Able to disable/enable )
  Voice Chat . ( Able to disable/enable )
  
  
  The Bads :-
  Its take more than 30 mins for 
 a one battle . ( Long time )
  The connection error will ennoy you everytime its cut . ( you may lose after playing for minutes 
 ! )
  
  
  Final Score :7.5
::::::

::::::
UserName: chickener
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 3:33 pm PT
Review:  The eye of judgment sounds like a really cool game and seems like something you would get addicted 
 too and want to spend hours and hundreds of dollars on, but all it is is just another card game. 
 What seperates this card game from others, besides the function of the eye toy, is that it has 
 no substance. If you have no one to play with, you are kind of stuck with the 'scrimmage' mode 
 vs. the comp, or online. It really gets old after a while when playing the comp as its pretty much 
 the same thing over and over again. Also there is no mode of progression or anything, you just 
 jump into a battle with the computer and if you win... you win and if you lose... you lose, thats 
 that. After you get bored with the 'scrimmaging', which should be about an hour, you can try out 
 online. With online, theres about 2 or 3 people online at a time across the world, and it seems 
 like and only about 1 of them has a connection you can connect to. Also the card games loses its 
 touch of "going out and finding rares" as people can easily dupe/copy cards themselves, from online, 
 or just photo copy them. The only way the eye reads the card is from the black bars on top and 
 bottom of the card which can be coppied on a peice of paper with a sharpie easily. So it loses 
 the point in even going out and spending alot of money on cards so you can play people who are 
 "masters" but who really just copy cards. 
  This game might be cool if you have another player to play with but there really is a horrible 
 job of teaching you how to play it, as its just a cr@ppy video that looks like it was made a few 
 seconds and sounds like one of the videos i had to watch in science class back in high school. 
 If i were you, save your 70 bucks and buy one of the newer games that just came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plexuss
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 12, 2007 12:51 pm PT
Review:  First, if the cord to the camera is too short for you, use a USB extender. I did and it works fine. 
 Yes, the manual does not explain all the details of the game. That is unfortunate but it doesnt 
 take much intelligence to figure things out. The on-disc video instruction are worth watching because 
 there is more detail there. It didnt take me or my friends very long to be able to play it competently 
 and it still is going to provide us a lot of fun. Online is fun too.
  
  I cant realy add anything more than has already been captured in the other reviews of this game. 
 It gets my vote for being worth the money and unlike a lot of games that once you play it through, 
 you might as well sell it or trade it, i can see Eye of Judgement being a game I'll keep and play 
 over and over. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SteveO1966
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 2:38 am PT
Review:  Personally, I think this game is better then an 8! Graphics are great, game play is pretty cool 
 and you can collect those trading cards for even more charachters!
  
  I found this game kind of hard to play even on easy. The object of the game is to occupy 5 squares! 
 I really enjoyed playing, even though I lost most rounds! I have played about 15 games and only 
 have won 1. I really like to watch the cards come to life as they laid out on the board/cloth!
 
  
  My only drawback on this game is the use of the camera. Twice while I was playing, the camera could 
 not read the card, and it kept asking me to replace the card and/or cards at one time it was asking 
 me to replace 4 of my cards because it could not read the cards.. all this while the sudden death 
 time was still ticking down.. so I lost time because it could not read the cards. I have a feeling 
 though, it may have been a light issue, so make sure you are playing in alot of light. Also, I 
 had the camera at a different position from where I first played the game, and I even set up the 
 camera for the new position. Also, at first the placemat and camera position lined up correctly.. 
 then all of a sudden it change, I could never get it back to line up, so I don't know what the 
 problem was. I did an exchange and have yet to try the new one. So hopefully it'll work.
  
  All in all, I really think this is one of the best games available for the PS3! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlagamegirl
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 7:50 am PT
Review:  Lousy instructions. Vague..,
  
  The book says there are 5 creature attributes, the web site says there are 6 my cards show 7. Blue- 
 water, Red- fire, Green - wood, Brown - Earth,,, ok whats purple? Whats Pink?
  
  I was trying to find what ther board squares represent and all I could find is either picture of 
 a blank cloth playing board or video's of battles I cant tell either what is Earth, Fire, Water, 
 Wood, Bolith on the board.
  
  Way to close to my Big screen to play, my screen is bigger than the distance you sit from the TV.
 
  
  Says to memorize 1 through 9 but doesnt say what 1 through 9 represent??
  
  Hard to get into and plays at 480p for alot of people. Sony just cant make a full resolution game 
 I guess. All my 360 games are 1080 all my PS3 games downgrade to 480p.
  
  Very dissapointed!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 5.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  This could have been a perfect 10..
  
  First the drawbacks -
  
  1 -The cord is actually 5 ft but after hook up to stand your about 3ft 10 inces from the tv which 
 is dangerously close and has been known to cause serious damage from (EMF) which according to the 
 EPA can cause 'brain tumors, leukemia, birth defects, miscarriages, chronic fatigue, headaches, 
 cataracts, heart problems, stress. nausea, chest pain, forgetfulness, cancer and other health problems'. 
 I have heard a few report of siezures already.
  
  2 -For 1080 TV owners without the older 720p will result in a down grade to 480p
  
  3 - Cant 
 access instruction during play nothing in the booklet on how to play?
  
  4 - Hard to find where it explains the 5 elements of EARTH, WATER, BIOLETH, WOOD, FIRE, what do 
 they look like? Why does my deck show 7 elements? What do the elements on the cards mean if I have 
 7 and it ony says there are 5. Which elements mean what on the cards. ( I cant tell what the symbols 
 mean on the cards or an explination?
  
  5 - Booklet doest describe creature attributes or what color Icons means?
  
  6 - Doesnt explain 
 what the 5 element look like on the board. (all look almost the same)
  
  7 - Asks you to memorize 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9 sequence on the board but doesn explain why?
  
  
 8 - Doesnt explain what causes a "Summoning Lock", it just happens and cards cant be played?
  
  9 - Says you can reuse cards on the board but doesnt explain how or when?
  
  10 - Do the 
 fields on the board shuffle each game or do they stay the same?
  
  11 - Does each player have a deck of cards or is the play with 1 deck only split between two players 
 , couldnt find the answere?
  
  12 - No customer support, supplied phone number does nothing.
  
  Outside of that the game look 
 great and shows promise to be revolutionary! Im glad they took video games in another direction 
 but for right now it wont go too far due to the serious short cummings and irritation of trying 
 to learn and lack of support.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 6
Date: Nov 11, 2007 6:36 am PT
Review:  First the drawbacks -
  
  1 -The cord is actually 5 ft but after hook up to stand your about 3ft 10 inces from the tv which 
 is dangerously close and has been known to cause serious damage from (EMF) which according to the 
 EPA can cause 'brain tumors, leukemia, birth defects, miscarriages, chronic fatigue, headaches, 
 cataracts, heart problems, stress. nausea, chest pain, forgetfulness, cancer and other health problems'. 
 I have heard a few report of siezures already.
  
  2 -For 1080 TV owners without the older 720p will result in a down grade to 480p
  
  3 - Cant 
 access instruction during play nothing in the booklet on how to play?
  
  4 - Hard to find where it explains the 5 elements of EARTH, WATER, BIOLETH, WOOD, FIRE, what do 
 they look like? Why does my deck show 7 elements? What do the elements on the cards mean if I have 
 7 and it only says there are 5. Which elements mean what on the cards. ( I cant tell what the symbols 
 mean on the cards or find an explanation?
  
  5 - Booklet doest describe creature attributes or what color Icons means?
  
  6 - Doesnt explain 
 what the 5 element look like on the board. (all look almost the same)
  
  7 - Asks you to memorize 1-2-3-4-5-6-7-8-9 sequence on the board but doesn explain why?
  
  
 8 - Doesnt explain what causes a "Summoning Lock", it just happens and cards cant be played?
  
  9 - Says you can reuse cards on the board but doesnt explain how or when?
  
  10 - Do the 
 fields on the board shuffle each game or do they stay the same?
  
  11 - Does each player have a deck of cards or is the play with 1 deck only split between two players 
 , couldnt find the answere?
  
  12 - No customer support, supplied phone number does nothing.
  
  Outside of that the game look 
 great and shows promise to be revolutionary! Im glad they took video games in another direction 
 but for right now it wont go too far due to the serious short cummings and irritation of trying 
 to learn and lack of support.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bboston7
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:56 am PT
Review:  I do not know why they said that the computer isn't fun to play with. IT IS! The online sucks because 
 it forces you to pick certain cards. I think it is VERY FUN and I love just playing with the comp. 
 i i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i 
 i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii 
 i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i 
 i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i 
 i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i i i ii i i i i i i i 
 i i ii i i i i i i i i i i 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DMMMMMM
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 10, 2007 5:49 pm PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgement, what else is there to say. Well just in case, The Eye of Judgement (EOJ) 
 is the next big thing to hit the PS3 system. When you buy the starter set you get the Playstation 
 Eye, A Deck of 30 Cards, a Booster pack, and the 9 Fields Playmat. So now you ready to play, the 
 way 
  it works is there is a 'Cyber Code' at the top of the card that the Eye reads.
  After the Eye reads the code the monster or spell card is activated and shown on the screen. Simple 
 right? Well thats not all, you have to take control of 5 out of the 9 total fields to win. To do 
 this you summon creatures to fight and use spells to create all kinds of buffers like, 
  'Clairs Will Banner' gives the chosen creature +2 attack. If you are accustomed to CCG's you will 
 be able to pick this game up no problem, allot of the mechanics for other CCG's are used in EOJ 
 so it isnt as hard as you may think it is. For all new CCG players there is 3 guidance videos built 
 in that help you set up, and play you game (My advise even experienced CCGers might want to check 
 these videos out they help allot) .
  Overall this game is really good but not with out its flaws, sometimes the camera freaks out when 
 you try to play a card, but all thats needed is a quick trip to the options menu and reset the 
 camera light settings. The starter set is a bit pricey but it is definitely worth a try for anyone 
 who wants a different type of gaming experience.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: vincent380
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:56 am PT
Review:  I remember when this game was first shown at E3 i thought it was so cool to actually put a card 
 down an see it come to life on your t. v screen
  
  Well let me start off with the packaging it had to be one of the most annoying packaging ever to 
 open! Me not wanting to cut myself with the plastic it took forever to open
  
  Now on to the game
  
  Im very happy they put tutorial videos in the game and actually explained 
 every aspect of the game because that was one thing i was worried about that i wouldnt figure out 
 to play but it took me a good half hour or hour to fully understand the game Once you fully understand 
 the game its very fun and i also TOTALLY disagree with the gamespot reviewer saying in order to 
 enjoy this game you have to play with a friend or online because its boring playing solo ive been 
 playing this game by myself for a few days now and im not bored with it
  
  Out of all the games Sony release this year i believe this game has the most potential to be HUGE 
 and hopefully Sony uses the games potential to branch off other ideas for the game My only problem 
 with the game i have is that there is no campaign type mode but i can live without it it just would 
 of been a nice addition 
::::::

::::::
UserName: je_taime_RB_27
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 5, 2007 7:13 pm PT
Review:  The Eye Of Judgment
  When I was younger, I was a big fan of the Yu-Gi-Oh! franchise games and cards. But when I put 
 this game in my PS3 and that I've try it, I was remebering the fun I had a few years ago. Do you 
 imagine how woulf it be when you were a Yu-Gi-Oh! fan that you could see the monsters digitalizes 
 them selfs on your TV? Do ya? So in this game you'll have the feeling you wanted to know when you 
 wanted to be at the place of your favorite main characters. First of all, the graphics and the 
 visuals effects are incredible, also for the sounds and voices of the monsters.
  The gameplay is really cool, because there's the Eye Toy that without that you couldn't play. The 
 Eye Toy feeling is fun but some times annoying because you have to place your little carpet (the 
 thing that you put your cards on) and your cards. But forget the bads, the gameplay is fun.
  The game can be play single player and multiplayer. In the single player mode, you only have the 
 option to be against the computer, because there isn't a story mode. Of course you can choose the 
 difficulty level so you can be better and better. The multiplayer mode is fun because its in this 
 mode that you have the most fun. You play against friends and whats fun, its that you can have 
 your own card deck so its more fun, you can discover new cards and maybe you can trade some with 
 them.
  There is also a online mode that is quite the same as the multiplayer mode.
  The maps are really cool and the monsters, spells cards and other type of cards too.
  Finally 
 I just wanna say that I offer you to try the practice and (how to learn to play mode) cause you'll 
 need it.
  The game worth the play and rocks so go buy it if you're a big fan of card games and for those 
 who aren't, go rent it. Thanks for reading my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Champ
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 5, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  The eye of Judgement Is a Fantastic Game, But single player Campaing/Single Is Really Boring.
  
  EoJ is nice game, But has a Bad Story. It isnt very intrstting. The card Battle Is fun But only 
 with pals. The monsters Are WELL MADE. The card itself ar cool u can use only one if u like someone 
 really cool.
  
  There isnt much to describe if u havnt played it. The card duels ar cool. The judgment thing let 
 u too see which card is better which is very helpful. It becomes really cool when ur with a friend.
 
  
  Its a nice game but its kind of boring in offline mod. Its still a nice game and it worth ur 70 
 bucks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: king_olly
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 1:50 am PT
Review:  This game is AWESOME. It has just the exclusivity that PS3 owners need to differentiate themselves 
 from those other consoles. I spent a lot of time researching this slowly emerging game and it took 
 me a lot of digging to find the facts,- but it wasnt long before I was compulsed to drive 50 miles 
 &amp; grab a copy. The aim of the game is to set up the 9 grid board and capture any 5 squares 
 by summoning creatures and spells using your hand of cards which you place on the squares... Your 
 opponent also has the same aim so you have to be very strategical with which units you place and 
 when. Each unit can attack and defend from different directions so you play off your oppenent by 
 exploiting these. Not only this - but each square represents terrain and your placed units get 
 bonuses or penalties based on where you place them as well as each card having it's own abilities. 
 This all adds up to make some mind twistingly great strategy although there is a dash of luck as 
 well. Once you know how to play, you will be thinking very long and hard about your next move and 
 it's great seeing strategies pay off. What annoys me is: &gt; The marketing is pretty poor so you 
 could easily overlook this box in a store; It is a bluray case with a hefty &pound;70 price tag 
 and nowhere does it say it comes with the camera, but this is not the case as you get the eye toy 
 with it. &gt; The play matt is a lowsy piece of cloth which rucks up when you place the cards (improved 
 by ironing first) unless you are very careful. &gt; The tutorial is the most droning load of drivvle 
 and confused me more than anything so I just learnt how to play myself. &gt; The heavy metal soundtrack 
 becomes a touch repetitive. &gt; US version is half the price but i would still say &pound;60 is 
 well worth it. &gt; Manual only provides the basics so you'll probably find yourself on forums looking 
 to find answers for some of the advanced elements of the game. Now for the good points: &gt; There 
 is a massive amount to learn once you get to grips with this game which is what makes it so riveting. 
 Ive had it for a week now and im still learning different things about it which make you use a 
 different strategy. &gt; The way the camera reads the cards and puts a 3d character on the screen 
 is fantastic and so so innovative. &gt; You get a starter deck of 30 cards but you can buy random 
 booster packs to get you more units/spells (110 available) . Some theme packs are available which 
 give the same as booster packs but are biased towards certain ranges of units. BEWARE!- This can 
 get expensive if you become obsessive about collecting them all! &gt; Free online multiplayer (with 
 ranked option) so you and your friends can all discuss your next move. &gt; You can play a friend 
 or the computer which makes a nice change from vegging in front of the sofa. &gt; Millions of strategies 
 to use which make this a game for life. Ive never played card games before but Ive got to say this 
 is a fantastic innovation and will hopefully lead to all sorts of expansions. If you are a ps3 
 owner at a loose end who loves turn based strategy then this is definately for you. I couldnt recommend 
 it more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killersguns
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 3, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  Game when pick up would seen to be easy but as u go deeply involved in to the game such as playing 
 online that the whole point of the game and to play with friends. Game is easy to learn and has 
 very deep gameplay that could get you playing for hours on end. Must get for people who loves card 
 games. Sumtimes the doing certain actions could be hard but camera is awesome and picks up the 
 card u place down really fast. One of the best Card games I have seen and played for years. Dont 
 like the fact that its not for other card games stop you from buying this game. Hope they expand 
 their judgement on other series such as Yugioh
  Game will speak for itself on how attractiing it is. Pick one up near your loco store. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -D3MO-
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 2, 2007 11:49 pm PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgment (PS3) Review
  
  The concept of trading card games has always been imagination. Sure there are shows were monsters 
 pop out of cards, but up to now it was fantasy. Well Sony using the Eyetoy has given us just that. 
 A trading card game that makes the cards come to life.
  
  Pros:
  + Innovative, nothing like this has been done before
  + The playfield is simple but strategy 
 is the only way to win
  + Great monster animations
  + Easy to pick-up and play, but difficult to master
  + Variety, there are many different cards, 
 and also booster packs available
  
  Cons:
  - Long set-up time
  - When playing online, the game draws cards for you
  - Recognition w/ the eyetoy has to be just 
 right or the card won't pick up
  - Can get expensive, the game itself is $70, + booster packs $3.
  
  Overall the game is pretty 
 fun. Online is not too good, but if you have friends the game can be very enjoyable. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darkwater12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 1, 2007 9:08 am PT
Review:  I picked up this games the day after release, and I must say I have been more and impressed by 
 it.
  
  Graphically this game is amazing, the summoning and battle make you want to play the next card 
 to see what will happen.
  
  However the main draw of this game is the card game itself. Now I have played magic and several 
 other card games, and it is the overall mechanics of the game that keep you wanting to play. And 
 Eye of judgement get those mechanics right, this game is simple to pick up but has a very deep 
 strategy that will take a long time to master, and with expansion on the way that stragegy can 
 only get deeper. Add that to the ability to play online against other people and this game will 
 provide entertainment for a long time.
  
  So all in all, I would more and recommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Opalescent
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 12:08 pm PT
Review:  The fact was, that I didn't even set the bar very high for this game, and yet it still managed 
 to disappoint me. This is ironic because I was a computer science major back in my University days, 
 and we actually did a project that was very similar to this game. Basically, the bar codes on the 
 cards are known in comp sci circles as a fiducial: a reference point from which the Playstation 
 Eye can garner the type and orientation of the card. I remember how difficult it was to massage 
 our camera to recognize our fiducials, and ours were far larger than the ones on the cards. Having 
 done work in this field before, I can say that at least in terms of technology this game was not 
 disappointing at all. In fact it's nothing short of amazing.
  
  However, a game's bane is that it needs to impress in a lot more than just technical proficiency. 
 If this were a University project it'd get an A, but it's not. As a game, specifically as a collectible 
 card game, it falls disappointingly short.
  
  Firstly: the game, like all collectible card games, intends for its users to actually collect the 
 cards. For some, this will be a put-off, as they will expect to be able to play decently with the 
 cards they're given out of box. Being a long-time Magic: the Gathering player, I knew this to be 
 false, but I can see this to be a potential put-off for many players. It would have been better 
 to have handed the purchaser several random packs instead of a very mediocre starter deck, so that 
 the purchaser could have the visceral joy of constructing their own decks (as well as having the 
 joy of possibly being lucky enough to get an awesome card in a booster pack) .
  
  The gameplay has a much slower pace than Magic: the Gathering. Gone is the concept of mana coming 
 from cards, instead coming in at a steady rate of two-per-turn automatically. The problem is that 
 there are very few mana-accelerating cards in the game, meaning that high-mana cards tend to be 
 almost impossible to bring down. Magic the Gathering Timmy types will typically be very disappointed.
 
  
  Graphically, the game is impressive. Each card has a unique animation, which is very good at adding 
 character to each card. The sound can get a bit grating (especially the music) , but otherwise, 
 the gameplay seems solid if a bit staid.
  
  Frankly I can't see why the whole Playstation 3 angle needed to be brought into it. I could see 
 them doing this with Yu-Gi-Oh (since the Anime already established much of what the cards would 
 look like) , but the way they designed this game, it really feels like they tried very hard to make 
 the game look impressive on the PS3 without realizing that a huge chunk of what makes a good card 
 game is gameplay. For instance, the cloth game-map is a bit of a head-scratcher; does it want to 
 be a card game or a board game? They don't usually match very well, and in this case I think it 
 didn't really work.
  
  The game is certainly not a very good Playstation 3 game (if you like tactical combat like this, 
 wait for Final Fantasy) , and as a card game, it's not as deep or tactical as Magic: the Gathering, 
 Pokemon, or Yu-Gi-Oh. There are certain gimmicks that the user needs to understand that really 
 seem tacked-on so as to make it more obvious that the Playstation Eye is needed , such as the whole 
 idea of fields and card-types, but the whole game would have been much stronger, in my opinion, 
 if they had simply made a solid collectible card game, and just used the Eye to show the monsters 
 duking it out on-screen, the way the Anime for Yu-Gi-Oh represented that game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rainergamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:59 pm PT
Review:  I would equate the Eye more to chess than a TCG. It's got a bit more strategy involved than your 
 average, run-of-the-mill TCG, which is definitely a welcome change. If you've never played Magic, 
 this should be a definite buy. If you've played Magic, you may find a few faults with the presumed 
 simplicity of the game once you look at how the cards are set up; this all goes to the back of 
 your mind once you actually start playing the game, though. Basically, a simple enough card game, 
 with easy-to-follow rules, and heaps of strategic elements likened to chess, The Eye of Judgment 
 will not disappoint. Internet games are brutal, and players vary in skill levels. The computer.. you 
 cannot beat. I cheat while playing the computer, and it usually still manages to defeat me. That 
 alone adds monstrous amounts of replay value, but then you've also got 1v1 with your friends beside 
 you, and online... online is definitely done right.
  
  Japan Studio knows how to make great games. I'll be buying the expansion when it decides to release, 
 and until then I'll be buying a booster pack a week... at least. I've already purchased, like, 3 
 and I've only had the game 5 days. Addicted much? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: XFoogyX
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Eye of Judgement is a unique card based game for the PS3. I'd say it's a mix between Magic the 
 Gathering and the old Final Fantasy 8 card game (TetraMaster?)
  There's a 3x3 grid that you place your cards on, while a camera reads them, and activates short 
 animations on your tv screen. The cards in the first set are pretty simple, and you won't have 
 a real hard time figuring out which ones can defeat others. If you haven't played a CCG before, 
 you might be confused what an ability like Quickness does, but it won't take long to figure it 
 out. Avoid the tutorial for learning how to play. Just jump right in.
  
  My biggest complaints about Eye of Judgement are minor annoyances.
  
  1st- The camera that 
 reads the cards is very picky. You'll spend awhile figuring out exactly how to get the perfect 
 light source over your playing field. Without the proper lighting, you'll have to constantly replace 
 your cards/ flip the lights on and off/ adjust the playing mat/ etc. I've found the perfect lighting 
 is just natural daylight. If you put a lamp above your cards, the cards will have a reflection, 
 and you'll still have a problem. This makes it difficult to play this game at night.
  
  However, once you find the perfect lighting, the camera reads the cards very quickly and the game 
 goes along very smoothly. 2nd- The other thing that annoyed me about Eye of Judgement was the fact 
 that it was almost impossible to find. One Gamestop within a 60 mile radius had a copy, and none 
 of the Gamestops carried the cards for it. I've been told this problem is being fixed though, as 
 more stores are getting their shipments in now.
  
  Overall-
  In a time where us PS3 owners are tired of waiting for good games to be released, Eye of Judgement 
 fits the bill. It's a unique and fun experience, and will keep giving back however much effort 
 you put into it. The initial cost of the game is pretty pricey, and keeping up with a CCG is already 
 expensive enough, but all things considered this is probably a title you shouldn't miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mjhacker
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 29, 2007 7:06 am PT
Review:  A little background on me - I've been playing Magic: the Gathering for nearly 10 years, and I have 
 a deep love for strategy games of all kinds. I picked this game up at the store (with a theme deck) , 
 brought it home, and was immediately amazed.
  
  The game is simple to learn, yet offers a surprising amount of complexity. While the game is not 
 nearly as deep as Magic, it's challenging enough to keep even the most hardcore of TCG fans interested 
 and entertained. The next day, I bought 2 booster packs, and the day after that (with the urging 
 of my wife) I bought 6 more. Deck customization is a very fun, challenging process, especially 
 since you aren't limited to what element or type of creatures you can have.
  
  Playing with another person is the most enjoyable part of the game, but online play is very enjoyable 
 and worthwhile. There are always people online, so you'll never be without an opponent.
  
  I would have given this a 10 if the game would have had a story mode. The lack of a good single-player 
 campaign is the only downfall to this otherwise innovative and worth-while game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bearstation
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 29, 2007 6:58 am PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgment is a new video/card game amalgam developed in conjunction with Wizards of the 
 Coast, the acclaimed card creators that brought us the Star Wars: CCG and Magic: The Gathering. 
 The concept of the game focuses on a real card battle system augmented by the PlayStation Eye camera 
 which identifies played cards through embedded pattern recognition on the cards themselves, allowing 
 the video game portion of the title to bring the battle to vivid, animated life on your television 
 screen. While the idea is quite simple, it allows the player to experience the previously static 
 world of collectible card gaming in a whole new and completely original way that before this creation 
 was limited to the gamers imagination.
  The bread and butter of The Eye of Judgment is the card game itself, and with Wizards of the Coast 
 at the helm, does not disappoint. A full fledged CCG in its own right, the game does not stint 
 on complexity or strategic opportunity. At its most basic, the object of the game is to occupy 
 5 squares of a 3x3 board with your own summoned creatures before your opponent can do so. As you 
 lay down creatures, you gain the opportunity to attack creatures controlled by your opponent either 
 through your own creatures or through single use spells that often change the environment of the 
 board itself. Add elemental properties, proper positioning for attack and defense, counterattacks, 
 and a slew of other vagaries and you have the makings of an elaborate system that can give the 
 shrewdest gamer hours of enjoyment. The fact that Wizards of the Coast has already signed up for 
 multiple expansion packs through next year means that the game will continue to grow and change 
 as more and more strategies are realized and exploited.
  The Eye of Judgment is playable in three different waystwo players can face off against each other 
 in the comfort of their own home, a player can face off against the sometimes brutal computer, 
 or a player can take the game online to face a pool of potentially limitless opponents. Online 
 play has been tweaked to prevent casual cheatingplayers must register their decks before play, 
 and the computer will then choose the cards for them. Each mode of playing is completely viable 
 and challenging, especially when facing off against the clever computer AI.
  The video game aspect of The Eye of Judgment does its job efficiently for the most part. The PlayStation 
 Eye recognizes cards quickly and seamlessly if the player sets everything up properly, even in 
 somewhat dim lighting. The only caveat here is the board itselfmade of flimsy, creased fabric, 
 it can cause the cards to sit at a slight angle and thus throw off the detection process. In a 
 game like this, card detection must be as worry free and quick as possible, so when there are issues, 
 it effectively turns the game into an exercise in frustration. Thankfully, the majority of these 
 issues can be addressed by ironing out the cloth board. It still would have been nice if SCEA could 
 have provided a more solid boardmade of sturdy plastic or wood, perhaps.
  The creature and spell animations are impressive and delightful to behold, even after watching 
 the same old Biolith Bomber for the 20th time. If the player desires the game to play faster, however, 
 he can always turn off card animations. The same cant be said about most of the audio effects, 
 however. The referee voice is as dull and monotonous as Ben Stein on Valium, the creature voice 
 actors are about as sincere as a high school musical, and the music isthe music is frankly unforgivable. 
 Whoever thought death metal typifies the brutal and fierce world of collectible card gaming should 
 be shot repeatedly with a staple gunpreferably in the head. Thankfully the stabbing pain this 
 garbage endears can be assuaged by turning the music off on the options menu. In conclusion, the 
 Eye of Judgment is a creative, innovative product hidden behind the more popular but altogether 
 derivative blockbuster holiday titles. SCEA should be congratulated on their efforts to bring such 
 a unique and interesting experience to the light of day, so praise them the best way you cango 
 out and buy the game for yourself. Youll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atheno
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:07 pm PT
Review:  Eye of Judgement is a game that challenges the very hardware you play on. Not in means of how powerful 
 the PS3 is, for this game runs beautifully and looks wonderful. But in the way you look at it, 
 playing in a world where anything is possible. Lay down a card and watch it come to life. For any 
 fans of Japanese anime, welcome to Yu-Gi-Oh, but in a more adult, American way.
  
  This game is deep, tough, and not for people who can't handle card games like pokemon, or Yu-Gi-Oh. 
 Well the rules of the game are vast and different from any of the above mentioned, it still holds 
 some ties to such. But if you looking for a game that makes great use of the eye toy from Sony, 
 this is it. Sadly the game suffers from an easily cheatable card system. The eye uses the symbols 
 on the cards to read what it is, but it can be photocopied in a certain way to copy cards. Sadly, 
 online, you might run in and play with people who simply print off the best cards from the internet. 
 It would be best to play at someones house where you can see his cards, or play with a trusted 
 friend online. Not that copying cards will hurt pros at this game, but all in all it's just another 
 thing for cowards to take part in, and thats never any true fun for the loyal players.
  
  Many people say, that PS3 is lacking games but let me tell you this, from my experience with a 
 FEW of PS3 games including EoJ, id rather have a hand full of super games then a bucket of slop.
 
  
  Let's just finish this by saying It's a great game, if you believe in the heart of the cards and 
 have the will, to learn the skills so id recommend renting it first to see if you got what it takes. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Holyone01
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 28, 2007 9:59 am PT
Review:  Kinda hard to learn, You must sit through the whole tutorial to understand the game. Its a love 
 or hate game, I think, Ither you like card games.. or you dont. The backgorund music is cool. Wish 
 we could buy more cards... or if we win against the PC or something the company will send us some 
 kick ass cards through the mail, of course we would probly have to pay to have them but its still 
 be cool. anyways thats all I got to say the end anyways thats all I got to say the end anyways 
 thats all I got to say the end anyways thats all I got to say the end anyways thats all I got to 
 say the end anyways thats all I got to say the end anyways thats all I got to say the end anyways 
 thats all I got to say the end 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venomnight
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 4:14 am PT
Review:  This game is awesome nice cards and more packs come out about every 3 months or so online play 
 is nice and you can also chat with you oppent while playing the camera has a micphone built in 
 to the camera . Went out and spent about $85.00 in cards after i got the game another nice things 
 is when you play online it is impossible to cheat sony did there home work would and so did wizards 
 of the coast (a. ka. magic the gathering )
  hope to see magic the gathering on my ps3 the same way that would be sweet or even yu-gi-oh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GodOfFire12
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 12:57 pm PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgement Is the best. It has good graphics, gameplay, and the eye is sweet. People 
 who think its a bad game are critics. Plus everyone wanted it and stores ran out already. If i 
 bought another game they probably would have had it like ratchet and clank future tools of destruction. 
 Its a good game but people didnt buy it the day it cam out and there was alot of copies when i 
 went to go get my Eye of judgement. All and all the game rocks and its worth the wait. Best of 
 all you can buy cards anywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gegatso
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 11:16 am PT
Review:  They hit the nail right on the head with this. Just difficult enough to NOT make it a game for 
 kids, but not so hard that you'll get a headache over it. Yes, there is a bit of a learning curve 
 if you are unfamiliar with card games of this nature, but thanks to a very detailed video on the 
 disc, you'll know what you're doing in no time. Great strategy in that not only do you have to 
 make many decisions when playing the game itself, but building your own deck is just as important. 
 there are plenty of cards to work with and unlimited ways to organize and rearrange decks. The 
 camera and software work flawlessly and the game plays like a dream - very smooth and fast. Highly 
 recommend to anyone either familiar with or just starting turn-based card games like this. Not 
 for kids, though - it takes some thinking. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schlemer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:13 am PT
Review:  Back in the day I was an avid AD&amp; Der, then the next generation to it to the next level in 
 the form of Magic the gathering and Warhammer. These games did not hold interest for me. Then I 
 heard of this new game or the PS3 The Eye of Judgement. Well, after doing some research and watching 
 the videos I placed a pre-order and anxiously awaited for Gamestop to give me a call. Call comes 
 in, I pick up EOJ, get home, open package, set up hardware and popped in the disk. Graphically, 
 this game is stunning and the sound production is fantastic. I especially love the METAL score, 
 it pumps me up for the game. The tutorial is very good, especially for me since Ive never played 
 a card game before. I also like the fact that though easy to learn, it is difficult to master. 
 EOJ is a game not based on reflexes, but intellect and strategy. I have not been this excited since 
 I first seen Battle Chess on the Amiga (yes Im that old) .
  
  Though I am very fond of my Xbox 360, lately I have been turning on my PS3 more often and not so 
 much for the blue ray movies. Games like Ratchet &amp; Clank, Heavenly sword, Lair (yes, I like 
 this one) , Warhawk, RFOM, RR7 and MLB 07 have been keeping me away from my precious Halo 3 ; )
 
  
  If Sony keeps this up I can see them having a very strong future ahead of them with the PS3. The 
 Eye of Judgement is a real must for any fan of this genre as well as those who want something fresh. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottman2003
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 27, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  THIS GAME IS GREAT ,THE GRAPHICS AND THE BATTLES ARE AWSOME AND THEY HAVE TWO KINDS OF BOOSTER 
 PACKS, A SMALL ONE AND A 30 CARD ONE. AND THERE WILL BE NEW SERIES AND NEW BATTLES. SO HOW CAN YOU 
 GO WRONG WITH A GAME THAT CAN KEEP GROWING WITHOUT BUY A WHOLE NEW GAME. IT WILL JUST GROW IN NUMBERS 
 OF COOL SPELLS AND CHARACTORS AND A WHOLE NEW TYPE OF BATTLING GAME. IT LIKE MAGIC OR ANY OTHER 
 CARD GAME ON STEROIDS. AND WITH THIS GAME ONE DOESNT HAVE TO USE THEIR IMAGNATION, BECAUSE THE CARDS 
 COME TO LIFE RIGHT IN FRONT OF YOUR OWN EYES. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: The_Warhammer
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 27, 2007 7:47 am PT
Review:  The Playstation Eye camera was placed were the mat say it suppose to be.
  That and its a really sensative camera. (Not to dark, not to bright, must be placed on a table 
 etc...) When I try summoning the Ice Guard from the starter deck he wont pop up but the other cards 
 do. Other than that the rest is great, but the difficutly on it is a bit hard even on beginners 
 level of difficulty I got beaten. This game is challenging for people who love challenges and trading 
 card games. Online is great got no problem with that, negative about this is that there no store 
 exept EB games that sell these cards for now. Probably the best game for the PS3 so far. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zball75
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 27, 2007 2:02 am PT
Review:  IF you want something new and want a game you will still be playing a year or more from now get 
 this game. ItI am a gamer but i also play magic the gathering back in the day and this was better. 
 My friend and I played it all night and he said i am no longer a 360 fan boy. He loves this games 
 as much as i do. If you learn the rules and build a cool deck you will see what im talking about. 
 The game Still has some bugs in online play but i have never had so much fun playing a video game 
 before it's even better than Street fighter 2 and Goldneye my 2 other fun times. I cant what for 
 the next card edition to come out. Tip oh if your cards are not reading right blow dry or Iron 
 on light the mat flat I never had a problem after that. Tip 2 Dont give up on the game watch the 
 tutoral one time and play someone on practus its not an easy game to just pick up asap but if you 
 stick with it you will see that is a very good thing it makes the game complex but when you have 
 it down even my seven year old was kicking butt. In many ways it can be has hard or as easy as 
 you want it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: perfwb
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 28, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  First off all you have to do is look at what you get in the bundle. Holy crap is all i have to 
 say about that. Great Deal. As for the game. I was an avid MTG player in my yonger years and as 
 card games go this has alot of potential to be a great game, as long as they release ballenced 
 cards, and as long as we can get our hands on them. Still waiting for that. Anyways if you like 
 card games this game is awsome. And i also see alot of ppl who may have never played a CCG getting 
 into. Very inovative game. A must have for any PS3 game collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mclutter
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  I have to tell you being a non-player of card games that this game is unique and very innovative. 
 The graphics are sweet, the close up battles are exactly what I would expect, and the game play 
 makes you want more and more. Having the ability to purchase booster packs to create your own deck 
 to use is really nice and gives you infinite possibilities. You can tell much thought went into 
 creating this game. Thank you Sony for such an awesome game finally. I can not believe Gamespot 
 gave this only a 7.5 because it has no single player. It does have single player, it does not have 
 a campaign. Certainly not a good enough reason to score it as a 7.5. Buy this game you will not 
 be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clever_NYC
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 26, 2007 10:20 am PT
Review:  A little background is in order, i've never played card games such as this before and really never 
 had any interest in them. However when i saw vid clips i assoiciated with it more with the scene 
 in starwars when chewie is playing C3-PO with some holographic chess table. I thought it looked 
 cool but had the air of being gimicky. After playing a few hours with it i was completely suprized 
 how into it i was. The whole player vs comp is immersive. also i had a chance to play against a 
 friend who actually into magic card games and he seemed to enjoy despite lacking certain features 
 that u can do in magic games. I have yet to play online but thus far I can say it's worth it. After 
 this i plan to buy a few decks and booster cards to try it out even further. I know I know u can 
 make hi rez copies and cheat but i'm funny like that and i prefer going with the luck of the draw. 
 My only concern about the game is that sony will not invest in the game further and add feature 
 via download to expand the game and continue to make it worthwhile down the line. I think id they 
 do they may have a goldmine here IMO. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagnaFantasy
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  8 stores traveled to and 3 hours of driving time to find this game. Overall I give this game an 
 8.0 because the game itself is enjoyable but the field mat that the game comes with gave me issues. 
 I would play a card in the lower part of the mat and the eye would lose the cards at the top of 
 the mat. I ended up making my own mat out of heavy computer paper and drawing the lines out to 
 match the lines drawn on-screen by the Playstation Eye perfectly . Once I did this the cards read 
 faster and I had no issues. Like I said overall 8.0 but if mat would have worked for me I would 
 have given an 8.5-9.0. Great Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: schpenke
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:59 am PT
Review:  After hiring several heavy equipment contractors to help get the game out of its plastic housing 
 I spent about an hour admiring the artwork on the cards and in the instruction booklet before even 
 setting the camera up. The artwork, matting, gloss, and card stock are absolutely amazing. WotC, 
 Hasbro, and Sony have really gone out of their way to create a quality product for this game.
 
  
  The next course of action after my artwork and quality admiration was to set up the Playstation 
 Eye on the suspiciously flimsy looking camera base. To be honest, I was a bit worried about the 
 quality of the camera base simply because each bit of plastic individually feels like it will blow 
 away with the slightest breeze or simply topple over from the weight of the Playstation Eye (which, 
 to be fair, the Playstation Eye is lighter than I imagined it would be) . I was pleasantly pleased 
 to discover that the camera stand, once assembled, is a pretty sturdy little piece of engineering. 
 I placed the stand in several different places on my gaming table to see if there were cold spots 
 where I simply couldn't place it for game play. While I found that I certainly had preferences 
 to camera placement there was nowhere that the camera stand was placed that made me nervous or 
 caused me to worry about instability. Camera placement WILL have a drastic effect on actual game 
 play though but I'll get to that in a minute.
  
  After placing the camera stand and the gaming mat in a comfortable position my next course of action 
 was to fire up the PS3 and load the game. After the brief load time and mandatory kudos to the 
 various development teams I was greeted with one of the most impressive game introduction videos 
 that I have seen to date on any platform. From the start-up music, to the action animation, to 
 the animated depiction of actual card combat, everything looked and sounded amazing. I was actually 
 excited to start playing before the game had even started. After the game introduction you're walked 
 through a very, very easy to follow and illustrated camera and display setup. You're basically 
 shown how to calibrate the camera to your liking as well as how to setup the camera on the mat. 
 I was really pleased with this portion of the setup because for some reason I expected to be thrown 
 to the wolves and left to figure out my optimum setup without much input from the game.
  
  Next step was to register my starter deck. The game already knows what cards should already be 
 in the deck so your job is to simply find the cards that have duplicates and lay groups of the 
 same cards together to register them. Then do the same with the singles. Registration of 30 cards 
 took me about 5 minutes and while I did have some brief problems with the Eye reading multiple 
 cards it was quickly remedied by going back to the camera calibration settings and making sure 
 that my game mat was properly lined up.
  
  After deck registration you're off to either look at the tutorial, which I highly recommend, or 
 jump right in to a game. The tutorial is invaluable and it is exactly what it sounds like so I 
 won't waste any time describing it. You'd be well served to go through it at least once.
  
  Game play was absolutely wonderful. My first game was against the CPU so I could get a feel of 
 the game mechanics and actual flow prior to going online and getting a proper pounding from an 
 anonymous gamer in the nether. A game against the CPU can be set up and started in a matter of 
 minutes. You select the difficulty level of the CPU, the location of the combat which can be randomized 
 if you like, the time alloted for card placement, the deck that you wish the CPU to use, whether 
 you would like the first player to be manually selected or randomized, and whether you would like 
 battle animations on or off. Once you've made your selections it's off to battle.
  
  The PS3 provides you with a disembodied voice the entire time you're playing the game which guides 
 you as to when it's your turn, when to draw a card, what your opponent is doing, etc. There was 
 no point during the game that I was curious as to what I should be doing because not only is the 
 disembodied voice directing you but the screen also provides a brief line of text suggesting what 
 it expects you to be doing right now. Playing a card is nothing short of remarkable. You do just 
 that. You rotate the card in the direction that you wish your summoning or spell to assume and 
 you set the card on the mat. The Eye reads the cards (which you're absolutely certain it's doing 
 because it provides a small animation over the card confirming the read or, at worst, letting you 
 know that it's trying to read the card if there's an error) , the disembodied voice announces what 
 the card action is doing, and then an animation of the effect appears on the screen. The battle 
 animations are fluid and the texturing of what characters and animations I have seen so far are 
 brilliant. Very cartoon looking but aesthetically rounded in form and smoothly colored. No garish 
 graphics, choppy edgings, or hiccuping animations.
  
  The basic goal of the game is to maintain control of five territory squares which can be achieved 
 through a number of different tactics from what I have seen of the various card stats. Although 
 the game can be played very aggressively it really does reward patience and careful resource and 
 territory management. This was a really refreshing change for me because most CCGs that I've seen 
 to date have all been about the biggest and baddest card and how much damage it can do. And while 
 that is a slight concern with this game the requirements for summoning a juggernaut are rather 
 high and the penalties for maintaining said juggernaut are stiff. Very balanced game play to the 
 point where I don't feel that I need to go out and invest in ultra-rare cards just to stay competitive. 
 A cool head and the basic understanding of the cards that I do own seem to be enough to create 
 a challenge.
  
  The only complaint that I have to this point in my playing experience has been the card read errors 
 that pop up infrequently. While saying infrequently is a good thing it's still extremely frustrating 
 when it happens because odds are the card read error is focused on a particular area of the game 
 mat. This translates to you not being able to play a card there unless you spend some time tinkering 
 with camera and mat positioning. And while this doesn't sound like a huge deal out of context; 
 when you only have 5 minutes to play a card, you have your opponent checked, and the last square 
 that you need to occupy happens to be the one square that you can't play on, it's a HUGE deal. 
 I've found that combating this particular problem requires that you go through the mat/camera setup 
 religiously after setting the game mat up and prior to going online or playing with the CPU. It'll 
 add an extra 2-3 minutes to your overall setup time but it's well worth it.
  
  All in all, from someone who's never been a really huge fan of CCGs, I have had absolute blast 
 with this game. I'd highly recommend this to anyone who's interested in trying the CCG genre, or 
 to anyone who just enjoys playing a good strategy-based game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WildbucingBill
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:52 am PT
Review:  I picked up this game on release day with no expectations other than I thought it looked like something 
 different. I own a lot of FPS, sports games, etc, and had grown a little bored of the same old 
 stuff. This appealed to me, with the camera, the online play, and the head to head play. I have 
 never played one of the card games like yu-gi-oh, pokemon, Magic. I never really was interested. 
 My son is quite into these games, but I never saw the fun in them. Wow. Was I wrong. The strategy 
 involved in playing this game makes for lots of fun. It is never the same twice and very challenging. 
 Now for the review. The setup for this game is very easy and quick once you figure out how it works. 
 I had no problem with light, camera placement, etc. You can set this game up in about 5 minutes. 
 The only thing I do not like about the camera is it is not wireless. The supplied cable is pretty 
 short (5 feet?) and as most people have their systems on an entertainment center I had to move 
 a table close enough to play this. I quess I will have to buy a USB 2 extender. The graphics of 
 the battles are entertaining and well done. The gameplay is easy to learn but hard to master. This 
 game was not advertised like the big titles, but my opinion is this game is going to be one of 
 PS3's sleeper hits. Now if I could only get some booster packs... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lokeman
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 26, 2007 6:14 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty nice. This game is to TCGs what WOW is to MMOs. It's very simplified and visually 
 atractive. The game is really fun, my only complaint is that the computer is really hard to be 
 set on beginner. I am not even going to try it on any higher setting. On beginner the computer 
 pulls of sly moves where you kill yourself as part of it's combo and I could never see anyone but 
 the most hardcore player ever thinking up such stratagies.
  
  I do not like card games or the type of person that plays them, but this game caught my eye and 
 surprised me. I think I will be playing this one secretly for grip. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: footfoe2
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 25, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  If you dont know eye of judgment is a card game on the ps3. in stead of having all the cards in 
 the game you use real cards. The Playstation eye looks at the cards on the mat and summons them 
 on your tv Gaphicly its amazing the opening scene is beautiful all the battles are cool and the 
 monsters are very invintive
  
  Game play the its a simple game no need to read instructions just play aginst the computer on beginer 
 mode (the ai is good even on the lower levels ) yet it still is deep and gets complex, the objective 
 is to gain most of the squires on the game map. If you just need one more space then it says check 
 like chess. the only way to stop check is to kill an enemy,
  
  Sound are good too the whoke time you hear tecno metal rock whitch i like. when you cast a spell 
 a gaint head pops up and says it in a criptic voice.
  
  Pros: No instructions recruired, Unlimited game depth, great sounds and graphics, online
  Cons: 
 The eye dosent always see the cards ( this has cost me a few matches ) , no story, you need to redgister 
 your deck to play online and its annoying to do, it comes in one of those adult proof plastic cases, 
 its a card game the short story: its a good deal if you want the ps eye. plenty of fun hear expisely 
 if you have some friends to play with a eye of judgment torniment over the week end would be unbelivibly 
 fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dukeofterror
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 25, 2007 12:35 am PT
Review:  The Eye of Judgement is a cool card based game, that uses the new PlaystaitionEye Camera. I think 
 it works quite well, though sometime the card recognition system has it's flaws. Most of the time 
 you have to readjust the card just a bit and it works perfectly fine again. Sadly, there is no 
 Singleplayer Campaign. Although i can't really see how you want to add story to this clearly multiplayer 
 laid out game. The Online mode is quite hard to play. First you have to register a Deck Online. 
 Afterwards you have to register every card of your deck with the camera. That is like anti-cheating 
 measures. You can't have a card in your deck you don't actually have. The Online mode takes some 
 time to understand, but although you can get a bit angry from time to time, in the end you can 
 see that those are all things that have to be done to get a fair match on the way, and i think 
 that worked out pretty well. In my opinion this game is really nice. If you like card games or 
 would like to yu gi oh in nice graphics this game is what you need. If you aren't sure about it, 
 you should try to have a look elsewhere. Due to the high pricing of 99.99&amp;#8364;, you can't 
 go out and buy it based on your feeling. The complete package contains: The Eye of Judgement game, 
 a Starter Deck consiting of 30 Monster an Spell Cards, The Playstation Eye, a Boosterpack containing 
 8 Monster and/or Spell cards, The Eye of Judgement playing Deck (where you put your cards on) , a 
 contraption where you can put the camera during gameplay. That's about it. Decide yourself, but 
 i for myself have desided, that i love this game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
