-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/rpg/theelderscrollsivoblivion/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 A massive and gorgeous world to explore.
 an engaging story and dozens of hours' worth of intriguing and exciting side quests.
 core role-playing mechanics like combat and magic are as adaptable as they are enjoyable.
 excellent music and hours of good voice acting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Slightly annoying performance issues.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 23, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9.5
Critic Score: 9.3, 54 Review (s)
User Score: 9.1, 6,437 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bethesda Softworks
Developer: 4J Studios
Genre: Role-Playing
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an amazing role-playing game that should not be missed. 

  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an unequivocal role-playing masterpiece of epic proportions. 
 After strong showings on the PC and Xbox 360, Oblivion is now available for the PlayStation 3, 
 and it's still every bit a fantastic game. That said, if you've already played Oblivion, you won't 
 find much of anything new in this version. The graphics are slightly better, the load times are 
 shorter, and there is a bit of new content in the form of the Knights of the Nine add-on, which 
 is available as a separate purchase on other platforms. However, if you own a PlayStation 3 but 
 haven't played Oblivion yet, this is one game you won't want to miss.  

          It seems like you're always stumbling across a new dungeon to explore in the world of Tamriel. 
     

  Oblivion takes place in the massive fantasy world of Tamriel. It's an immersive world full of adventure 
 and intrigue that you can easily get lost in for hours at a time. You begin the game by selecting 
 a race and gender to create a character. After a short introductory sequence, you can choose a 
 class and birth sign to further customize your hero. The classes are typical role-playing standards, 
 such as warriors, wizards, and thieves. There are also several hybrid classes, so you're sure to 
 find a perfect class for your style of play. As flexible as the character-creation system is, you 
 can take it a step further by assigning skills and attributes as you see fit to create your own 
 class. You aren't limited by the class you choose though, because all of the skills and abilities 
 in the game are open to anyone. Designing your character is simply a matter of assigning proficiencies. 
 There are seemingly endless options for creating your character, which gives an early indication 
 of just how deep and customizable this game is.  

  Once you create a character, the world is yours to explore. The main quest involves closing a series 
 of gates to the hellish alternate dimension of Oblivion, which is spawning hordes of evil creatures 
 that are attacking the cities of Tamriel. You can stick closely to the main story quest, which 
 will take about 40 hours to complete, but the majority of the content in Oblivion is entirely ancillary. 
 This is one role-playing game that does a fantastic job of nailing that feeling of truly being 
 in control of your own destiny. Something as simple as picking herbs or hunting deer in a forest 
 can suddenly turn into a dashing adventure as you're attacked by bandits or stumble upon a secret 
 cavern that's just begging to be explored.  

  The world is full of hundreds of characters, each with unique names, personalities, and problems. 
 It pays to talk to these characters because you never know when one of them might send you on a 
 lengthy and rewarding side quest. You might have to spy on a suspicious person, assassinate someone, 
 collect rare plants to create a potion, expose a crooked merchant, and much more. There are also 
 guilds for each of the basic classes, and each guild has its own elaborate quest for you to complete. 
 If there's a problem with Oblivion, it's that there's so much to do in the world of Tamriel that 
 the scope of it all can feel daunting at times. Rather than trying to experience everything the 
 game has to offer, you might find yourself simply walking about the countryside taking in the beautiful 
 sights, which can be every bit as enjoyable as fighting for your life on the fiery planes of Oblivion. 

  Fighting is one of the more exciting aspects of Oblivion because the combat is fast and frantic. 
 The tension is also heightened by the game's default first-person perspective. Fighting is as simple 
 as pressing a button to swing a sword, shoot an arrow, or cast a spell, but the adaptability of 
 the combat and the solid artificial intelligence of the enemies ensure that no two battles will 
 ever feel quite the same. You can approach combat head-on, go for a stealth approach and stab an 
 enemy in the back, stay back in the shadows and fire arrows, cast spells to inflict damage or status 
 effects on your enemy, or even conjure up other monsters to do the dirty work for you. If you're 
 averse to confrontation, you can simply make yourself invisible and sneak past enemies, avoiding 
 combat altogether. No matter what strategy you choose, the combat is satisfying because it's quick, 
 dynamic, and challenging enough to make you feel as if you're really fighting for your life rather 
 than slogging through an endless stream of obligatory battles. You're rewarded for your efforts 
 with piles and piles of glorious loot.  

  As you play the game, you'll get stronger. You don't earn experience points as in a traditional 
 role-playing game. Instead, your skills become stronger as you use them. This means that if you 
 stick to using a sword, you'll get better with blade weapons. If you primarily use magic, you'll 
 become a stronger caster. It's an intuitive system that eliminates the need to go out of your way 
 to train and strengthen your character, which lets you focus on the more enjoyable aspects of the 
 game. No matter how strong you become, you'll never feel invincible because all of the enemies 
 that you fight in the game also level up with you. This does deflate the ego a bit because even 
 after putting hours into the game, on the default difficulty you'll often find a respectable challenge 
 fighting even the most common enemies. But there is a difficulty slider that you can adjust at 
 any time, just in case you find yourself having a hard time staying alive.  

  Not only is the world of Tamriel massive, but it's also a gorgeous, organic place full of spectacular 
 sights and experiences. There's plenty of variety to the landscape as well, and you can do everything 
 from scaling a snowy peak, to taking a horseback ride up a rugged mountain path, to going for a 
 swim in a crystal-clear lake, to searching an ancient tomb. The draw distance in the PlayStation 
 3 version of the game is a bit further than in the Xbox 360 version, which means that when you're 
 looking out across the world, you'll see huge castles, lakes, and mountains perfectly clearly in 
 the distance. When you're exploring the world, you will notice some objects and textures pop into 
 view a bit late, which looks a bit awkward but is certainly forgivable because the rest of the 
 game is so pretty. The cities are also thoughtfully designed and arranged as if each place you 
 visit is entirely unique. The claustrophobic dungeons are vast and deep, full of fearsome enemies 
 and abundant treasures. When you enter these cities or dungeons, you do have to look at a loading 
 screen, but on the PlayStation 3, the load times are thankfully brief and usually last only a few 
 seconds.  

          There are plenty of opportunities to create a little mayhem, but if you step out of line 
 you can expect to suffer the consequences.     

  The fantastic presentation also extends to the audio in Oblivion. The rousing orchestrated soundtrack 
 sounds great and enhances the grand feeling of adventure in the game. When you encounter an enemy, 
 the music will suddenly change to a more upbeat track that keeps you on your toes and often serves 
 as your only alert to nearby danger. There's a ton of voice work to listen to here as well. Every 
 single line of dialogue in the game is fully voiced. Some notable actors lend their voices, including 
 Patrick Stewart ( Star Trek: The Next Generation ,  X-Men ) and Sean Bean ( The Lord of the Rings: 
 Fellowship of the Ring ,  National Treasure ) . But for the most part, all of the residents of Tamriel 
 share the same few voices. The delivery is very good, but it's a bit off-putting to hear almost 
 every character in the game speak with exactly the same voice. The sheer amount of spoken dialogue 
 in the game is impressive nonetheless.  

  The PlayStation 3 version of The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is every bit as impressive as the Xbox 
 360 and PC versions. However, this isn't necessarily the best version of the game. This version 
 does come with the Knights of the Nine add-on, which will add about 10 hours of gameplay to the 
 already lengthy game, but it doesn't come with any of the other downloadable additions made available 
 on the Xbox 360. In terms of extras, the PC trumps both other versions because of a wealth of free 
 player-created content. Even with a relatively modest amount of added content, the PlayStation 
 3 version of Oblvion packs well over 100 hours of adventuring to keep you entertained for months 
 to come. Ultimately, the version you decide to purchase comes down to a matter of preference, but 
 one way or another, you should definitely play this game.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (402 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: wmchad8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 19, 2009 10:54 am PT
Review:  The Good: Oblivion was one of the first games I picked up for my Playstation 3 and it was probably 
 one of the best, too. The game delivers so much gameplay, with side quest and other things that 
 will blow your mind. One thing I just can't get over about the game is mainly the value of it. 
 I spent thirty dollars on this game, and to me I felt like I got a steal on this buy. Anyway's, 
 let's get to the basics. The gameplay is so unreal, as well as the graphics. If your doing the 
 main quest, you will notice the verbal dialog is just outstanding. The different monsters, weapons, 
 and spells will have your jaw dropping. The cool thing about this game, is it's not really repatative 
 either, you do a new objective every quest. 
  
  The Bad: Every game as a few flaws, but this game barely as any. The load times can get a bit long 
 and annoying at times, especially when you just want to play. Also, one major thing is that you 
 can just feel so overwhelmed with the gameplay. There's just so much things you can do. And last 
 but not least, be careful on how long your playing the game. I started it up once, and before I 
 knew it my mom was calling down saying, get off you've been on for three hours. So be weary with 
 your surroundings and don't get hooked to long. 
  
  Overall: This game is hands down a must play for the Playstation 3. Before this game, I didn't 
 really play any rpg's besides Zelda, for my Nintendo DS. But it delivers anything you could be 
 looking for in a game. From my interpretation, just get this game, you have nothing to lose because 
 it feels like your getting more money out of it, then what you actually spent, and that's what 
 I'm looking for in games these days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterbearer26
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:43 pm PT
Review:  
  
  Oblivion: The Elder Scrolls (PS3) :
  
  
  This game is highly detailed and the scenery is breath taking, the game play is relaxing but at 
 the same time nerve racking, cause you never know what enemy will jump out of no where. When, i 
 first played this game was at my best friend's house on her computer and i was blown away, the 
 game play, scenery, storyline, just everything is magnificent. After a few hours of playing i wasn't 
 able to pull myself away from the screen, it just pulled me in and something about it at the same 
 time highly intrigued me. The game itself is awesome in detail and Bethesda have outdone themselves 
 on this one. I really enjoy playing a game that doesn't lack in detail, depth, consistency, cause 
 we gamers know that those kind of those games don't really play much less sell. 
  
  
  This game is highly worth playing and it sells itself, i mean everyone has different opinions and 
 objections to certain things in life and if anyone can think of a way better role playing game 
 than this one.. then send me a message i would love to read it so i can laugh for a few minutes 
 and tell you that this is the game. This game deserves Game Of The Year, Best Role Playing Game 
 Of The Year. In my opinion it deserves it, i mean i can't think of any other role playing games 
 that get high honors as soon as its released.. maybe the reader's of this review can answer that 
 question. 
  
  Question: Name 10 Role Playing Games that deserve to get more recognized? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ripcurl530
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2009 2:29 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the successor to the elder scrolls 3: morrowind. It came out early in this generation 
 and exposed gamers to a radically new experience on xbox 360 and pc. A year later, it arrived on 
 PS3 where I experienced it a second time (I first played it on 360) . 
  
  First things first. Oblivion is HUGE. The world is so fully developed and beautiful that it is 
 easy to lose hours just wandering around the environment with no particular objective in mind. 
 From luscious green hills to the gates of Oblivion, the amount of detail in the environment is 
 astounding. There is no denying that the world of Tamriel in Oblivion is brilliantly realized. 
 The quality of the graphics and music facilitate the awesome locales and pull you into the adventure. 
 
  
  Oblivion is huge in another way too: content. There is the main quest which will probably take 
 you less than 20 hours to beat, but that is a small percentage of what Oblivion has to offer. You 
 join guilds such as the fighters guild, mages guild, dark brotherhood (my favorite) etc You receive 
 varied and interesting missions as you move up in the ranks of your guild. But the beauty of Oblivion 
 is the freedom. You can complete a quest any way you desire- actually you can play the whole game 
 any way that suits your style. You could spend a hundred hours just exploring the wilderness and 
 finding hidden items on your own or running around killing everyone (Great fun, but super hard! 
 You'll have the whole country's guards on you in short order) . 
  The combat in oblivion is first person (although there is the option to pull back to a 3rd person 
 view) . You block, strike with a variety of awesome weapons and use devastating or manipulative 
 magic to destroy your foes. The combat is a little rough sometimes, but overall, Oblivion did a 
 great job within the constraints of the first person view. 
  
  Oblivion has a few minor glitches as a result of it's ambition, but the good of the game definitely 
 outweighs the bad by a loooong shot.
  
  I would recommend oblivion to everyone. It's so easy to get into and there is so much content that 
 you may well be playing Oblivion long after the next generation of consoles arrives.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lalucar
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2009 11:54 am PT
Review:  The greatest RPG I've ever played, starting with you creating your perfect fantasy character by 
 giving you Wood Elves, Dark Elves, Lizard People (Argonians) , and of course regular people, and 
 each race has special abilities and attribute points only given to that paticular race, like Argonians 
 can breathe underwater, and Wood Elves have higher start out skill in Archery and Speed. Then you 
 select more bonus' to suit your perfered style of play, if you are into being a Magical type character, 
 you have higher skills in healing, conjuring demons, and making potions. If you'd rather be the 
 strong knight you can get skills in Swords and blunt objects, and defending yourself, and lastly 
 the third of the main "styles" the stealthy type character who can have bonus' like lockpicking, 
 and sneak. The possibilities are endless and you can pick so many thing that will change the gameplay 
 in dramatic ways. The world of Cyrodil is also great, its huge and has diverse areas, from the 
 sunny quiet shores of Anvil to the snowy rustic village of Bruma each one has the option to buy 
 a house and make it your permenant residence. There are SO many quest's in this game your eyes 
 will pop, I mean not only is there the usual main story, but there are five guilds you can join 
 to perfect your skills, gain fame, or infamy, and become wealthy in organizations like the Mage's 
 Guild, Fighters Guild, Arena Guild (Gladiator) , Theives Guild, and the Dark Brotherhood (Assassins) . 
 Each one also has its neat way to get into it too, like after you've been in jail once you can 
 take up the quest to join the thieves guild. Or if you'd rather go alone, just walk around talking 
 to people and your bound to find a quest, which brings me to Oblivion's "pedestrians" or NPC's... 
 Each one has a name, responsibility, job, and attitude specific to who you are and how you treat 
 them. And the game is all held together by the use of a journal which lets you equip some of the 
 many pieces of Armor, Clothing, or Weapons to your character, and view the map and current quests. 
 Oblivion should be bought by ANYONE because of its variety and choice keeping you entertained for 
 a long time to come. My only disappointment was the voice acting of the characters which wasn't 
 insync with the mouth's the voice came from, and many people had the same voice as others, but 
 also the loading times which when out in the wilderness were every 20 seconds or so it would slow 
 down a bit or freeze a second or two. Very minor flaws on the beautiful game Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superbucsfan24
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 7:09 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls 4 is a great game that you cant stop playing. You can really do anything you want. 
 Best freerome on ps3 right now. You will play this for hours and hours once you get hooked. One 
 of the five best ps3 games. This game is very long so its definetly worth the money. You can just 
 goof off if you get tired of following the main story. The best of the Elder Scrolls series by 
 far. There is a great wepon selection from daggers to stunning swords and axes. very good graphics. 
 The enemy's have great variety. You will fight wolves and warriors but then you will fight gouls 
 and monsters from Oblivion. Its a very hard and challenging game but you Will enjoy the challenge 
 and k trying over and over again until you beet it. You can fight in arenas or out in caves and 
 out in the wild. If not the best this is one of the best ps3 games I have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lampshade820
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 7, 2009 6:58 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the sequel to The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind, and, so far, 
 Oblivion is the best sandbox game I've ever played, because it literally is a world in and of itself, 
 where yo can do whatever you want, whenever you want, with over 200 hours of gameplay.
  You start out the game by completely customizing your character. You can choose whether your character 
 is male or female. You choose the race of your character, each race with its own advantages and 
 disadvantages, depending on how you want to play the game (i. e. : certain races have a bonus to 
 magicka, so, if you want to be a mage character, you should choose them) . You can also change your 
 character's appearance to your liking, which adds to the personalization of the game.
  The graphics and landscape are indescribable. As soon as you walk out of the beginning dungeon 
 level, you are shown this beautiful, vibrant landscape that, although pleasing to the eye, holds 
 some very great dangers. I remember when I was playing my first character, who was absolute crap, 
 and I simply wandered around and found a bandit camp that was somewhat close to the beginning, 
 I didn't know that it was a bandit camp, so I ran in and was immediately greeted by an arrow in 
 the chest and a warhammer to the face. To add to the complete and utter humiliation, I unknowingly 
 trod into the bandits' fire while fighting (Two against one! When is that ever fair?) , thus igniting 
 myself and causing further damage. Needless to say, I died very quickly. After this death, I decided 
 to make a different character, one who didn't suck. I also chose to use stealth, silence, and arrows 
 rather than barging right into a fight.
  Speaking of fighting, the combat in this game is rather good, although it could be better. There 
 are three types of weapons: Blunt, Blades, and Ranged, ranged being my personal favorite. These 
 are incorporated very well into the game, and, as a fun twist, the enemies can do almost everything 
 you can do, and, depending on the difficulty you have it set on, they have a similar amount of 
 health as you. However, the fighting itself can become rather repetitive, which is a shame.
  Overall, Oblivion is an awesome sandbox RPG, and, if you're looking for a good game to take up 
 your time while you're incredibly bored over the summer (as I was when I got it) , then you've come 
 to the right game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WanderleiSilva2
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2009 11:43 am PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying that you can always improve on something. There is no such thing as 
 a flawless game. However, this game is as close to perfection as any software developer can get. 
 Absolute masterpiece that is brilliant in every way from start to end (even though there is no 
 real ending) . There isnt much you can't do in this game.
  
  The Good -
  1. Graphics and visuals are outstanding, especially inside caves and houses. The attention to detail 
 in this game is crazy. 
  2. Atmosphere is tremendously rich and pure. You can almost feel the cool breeze blowing from the 
 trees!
  3. Weapons and armour types and styles are fitting for a mid-evil game. Enchanted weapons and the 
 ability to create your own potions adds a nice touch to the games arsenal.
  4. Gamplay is nice and smooth. You have the ability to play first or third person point of views, 
 which a lot of games don't offer. The physics engine is second to none.
  5. Characters and voices are great and soothing when they need to be. A variety of races and the 
 ability to create your own character makes this game even more addicting. Enemies are all intelligent 
 with advanced AI.
  6. Ability to barter, sell, and haggle prices is a cool and helpful aspect in the game.
  7. Lock 
 picking is challenging and fun and well.
  8. Hours upon hours of freedom to do what you want and when you want to. You choose what objectives 
 to complete and how to complete them. This game is like 5 games in 1, from doing missions to buying 
 houses or fighting in the arena as a gladiator, it can very easily occupy 150 hours of your time.
 
  9. Story is not lacking anything. Especially if you continue to interact with people around town. 
 You can also get information from books laying around in houses or stores.
  10. Soundtrack is bliss and keeps you wanted to continue playing just to hear the music. Some of 
 the music in the game will haunt your thoughts forever and leave you having to buy the soundtrack 
 album (by Jeremy Soule) off the official website.
  
  
  The Bad -
  1. Occasional glitches can be a nuisance, such as people running in place or walking into walls. 
 Doesnt happen often, but when it does you can definately notice it.
  2. Screen lagging and regenerating when you are running can be annoying, but forgiving when you 
 see the detail and dream like skies that follow.
  3. Load times between going indoors and outdoors is the worst part of the game, but at least they 
 play the soundtrack!
  
  
  This game is the very definition of a role playing classic. Bathesda Softworks played this hand 
 perfectly....... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: billcorex22
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 3, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  while i have only played a few rpg's i can say with confidence that this isthe best rpg made to 
 date. this game had me playing for almost 12 hours straight the first day i bought it. if anyone 
 tells you its boring (like one of my friends) its because they are boring. only boring people would 
 call this game boring. the enormous amount of quests really suck you in. the map is HUGE, it would 
 take years to explore the entire thing. there are so many quests and different ways you can play 
 this game like the wide range of classes and races to choose from. the leveling up system is rather 
 easy to grasp. it will keep you going back for more. the city's are so well designed and the graphics 
 are amazing for such a huge world. you feel like you are really in the game. i can't wait for elder 
 scrolls v it seems like bethesda softworks just keeps getting better at what they are doing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willpak
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 25, 2009 7:49 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a beautiful, amazing game thats takes place in the world Tamriel 
 in the country of Cyrodiil. In the beginning of the game, you are able to create or own hero (or 
 criminal, depending on how you want to lead your life) , with options ranging from race, to skills, 
 to eyebrows. 
  
  The game's motto is "live another life, in another world" and this goal is accomplished perfectly 
 in Oblivion. Full of heroism, crime, evil, and plot, this game delivers. Graphics are unbelievably 
 stunning, with no cave wall ever the same and no landscape the same as the last. You can hear the 
 sound of distant thunder, and you know that you are about to get rained upon. Grass blows amazingly 
 realistically in the wind, butterflys flutter past, and deer bound away in the forests. You may 
 be exploring aimlessly across the land and come upon a ruin full of treasures and mystery. Or you 
 can get a job at a guild and work your way steadily to the top and become the guild master. 
  
  There are many enemies that you must adjust accordingly to. For example, while you may be a 
 big bad warrior and can kill a bear with your fists, but you would be useless against a ghost. 
 Music is exceedingly important in Oblivion, for a change of music will warn you when an enemy spots 
 you. 
  
  This game cannot be finished, because every cave that you ransack will eventually regenerate new 
 thieves and creatures to kill. You can lead your life many different ways. You can follow the main 
 quest and play the hero of the world. You can hide in the shadows and become an infamous thief 
 and murderer. Or you can live your life "under the radar" and go "cave-bashing" and see what treasures 
 lie within. 
  
  One thing that really blew me away, however, was a sunset. Go to the top of a mountain and watch 
 the sun set, and only then will you truly appreciate this amazing game. 
  
  If you have a PS3 or Xbox 360, and do not own this game, then you are missing out on your system's 
 true potential. Please, if you do not have this game, get it. You will be astounded by this perfect 
 masterpiece. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DrumahBoy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2009 12:34 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was a perfect follow up for The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. I 
 mean it exactly as I said it, because this was a large step for Bethesda. They transferred from 
 the older generation to the new-gen platforms relatively very gracefully. Besides the sometimes 
 slow load times, and not so welcome crashes, it was a perfect transition between the two.
  
  I felt that the graphics totally added to the reality of the game. They produced outstanding 
 visuals to come along with the gameplay. It was a nice change from the very jagged-edged predecessor. 
 They really made my experience mesh into the surroundings. However, along with that, they had a 
 sort of "ragdoll" feature that whenever a creature would die, they would flop around like jelly. 
 This was kind of funny, but on a serious term, they could have done better with that.
  
  The sound and quality of the music was outstanding. I could really feel the mood of the game as 
 a Daedric Warrior charged me for the first time. (which kinda told me he wasn't on my side) This 
 brings up the last bad thing I have to say that I was disappointed with. The sounds that came about 
 when i swung at random objects (yes, i am easily amused) sounded the same. Everything was surprisingly 
 metallic.
  
  Other than all I mention above, this was an outstanding game that you must buy the next time you 
 see it. Great for RPG fans with time.
  
  *this is an update from my last review on my other account. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatkins1177
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 5:31 pm PT
Review:  As a life-long player of pen and paper RPG's, and a life-long fan of video game RPG's, I always 
 hoped for a merging of the two: a video game RPG that was immersive and engaging, leaving the player 
 free to do just about anything he or she wanted within the confines of the game world. Happily, 
 Bethesda created such a game in Oblivion.
  
  Now first let me say I have never played any of the other Elder Scrolls games, so I am speaking 
 from the perspective of someone new to the series. I must admit I was a little skeptical when I 
 first started playing. The tutorial was helpful, but wasn't exactly the free roaming, expansive 
 world I had read about in reviews. Thankfully I stuck with it and upon exiting the tutorial was 
 presented with a message telling me I could now go anywhere and do anything. I set forth into the 
 world of Tamriel and never looked back.
  
  The first step is character creation, and my only complaint here is that the game insufficiently 
 explains the leveling up system. In Oblivion, your character has 21 skills, 7 of these are major 
 skills, while 14 are minor. You gain a level if you raise your major skills by a total of 10 points. 
 Your character always has all 21 skills, and it's possible to raise your minor skills higher than 
 your major skills, essentially making your minor skills the ones you are best at. This allows you 
 to level up your minor skills without leveling up your character. Because the game levels up along 
 with you (that is, the levels of the enemies and NPC's you encounter are based on your own level) , 
 it seems like a good idea to make the skills you will use most often your minor skills so you don't 
 level up too quickly making the enemies you encounter more powerful than you are. It's a complicated 
 system, and in a lot of ways counterintuitive for those familiar with other RPGs, but it makes 
 sense for a sandbox style game like this. It just takes some getting used to.
  
  Oblivion is an amazing single player RPG that can keep players involved and engaged for dozens 
 of hours. There are sufficient side quests to complete, factions to join, and areas to explore 
 that the main quest can be completely ignored for days at a time. Join the Fighter's Guild and 
 collect rewards for your efforts. Join the Thieves' Guild and rob from the local merchants. Join 
 the Mage's Guild and gain entrance into the University, along with the ability to create your own 
 spells and magic items. And once all of that begins to bore you, you can always try your hand at 
 saving the world.
  
  There are very few negative aspects of Oblivion, and the replay value is incredible. With so many 
 different choices and paths, it's never the same game twice. I highly recommend it to anyone that 
 likes a good adventure, but especially to fans of tabletop RPG's. It's as close as a video game 
 has ever gotten. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: SeanDiff
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 22, 2009 11:30 am PT
Review:  This game allows you to immerse yourself in the world of Oblivion, and there is 100+ hours of gameplay 
 beyond the main storyline. From the four guilds in the game ( Fighters', Mages', Assassins', and 
 Thieves' guild's) , the Shivering Isles Expansion which adds another 10+ hours of gameplay on it's 
 own, the Knights of the Nine faction which allows you to fight a corrupt god, and all the other 
 quests, dungeons and exploring there is to do.
  
  So with all this freedom, it is somewhat ironic that the game starts you off in a jail. Your first 
 quest is to get out. The Emperor of Cyrodiil arrives in your cell and tells you that you were placed 
 in the cell by divine intervention, and tells you to follow him out.
  
  In the Dungeon you choose your class. There is of course the basic mage, warrior and rogue type 
 classes but there is also many more. "Spellsword" combines different magic types with blade skill 
 for a good offensive class. "Knight" Combines Melee skills, heavy armour and healing magic for 
 a character with great survivability.
  
  Once you leave the Dungeon, you step out to the beautiful world of Cyrodiil. Lakes, forests, and 
 many different cities which each have unique quests and people.
  
  The game has very good graphics. Standing on a high mountain you see amazing detail in the land 
 below you. From most parts of cyrodiil you can see the White Gold Tower: A huge tower in the Imperial 
 City built by elfs many years ago.
  
  So RPG fan or not, you will love oblivion. The game has over 200 hours of gameplay in it, and every 
 day you will see something new. 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cj_simmons
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 4:44 am PT
Review:  oblivion is an amazing rpg that everyone should play atleast once if only for a little while.
 
  
  graphics: 9
  
  the environmental graphics in oblivion are simply amazing. the stone walls, wooden doors, and your 
 weapons all look amazingly realistic.
  add that to the textures of the grass and trees and the way they move with the wind and you feel 
 like your actually in the game. but the one thing in oblivion that completely blew me away was 
 the sky. if you were to look up at the mourning sky in the game, then look out the window at the 
 sky outdoors you will notice that the sky in the game looks just as real as the sky out doors. 
 it is just truly amazing.
  
  even though the environmental graphics are truly outstanding, the character models, however, are 
 not. while there not horrible, they definitely need a lot of work. 
  
  
  sound: 9
  
  the sound effects in oblivion are just as amazing as the visuals. everything from the sound of 
 weapons clashing to the distant roar of thunder, and even the soft sounds of the blowing wind do 
 a great job of making you fell like your actually living in the game.
  however, once again there is a problem pertaining to the characters. all the character voices are 
 the same. with the exception of the king ( played by patrick stewert ) all the male characters 
 share one of 2 maybe 3 voices. and the same goes for the women. sometimes they will even be a mans 
 voice coming from a woman's character. also, everytime you walk past a character, that person will 
 say the same thing every time.
  
  
  story: 8
  
  the story of oblivion starts off with you being a prisoner in his/her cell just sitting in your 
 cell severing your time when all of a sudden the king and his guards enter your cell and open a 
 secret tunnel so the king can escape from assassins. you then follow the king as he tries to escape 
 while he tells you about his dream that you just so happen to be in. then right before he dies 
 tells you about the dragon fires. as long as the dragon fires are lit the realm of oblivion and 
 your would are kept apart. and then he explains how after he dies the dragon fires will go out 
 and creatures of oblivion will then be able to cross over. he then gives you a necklace and tells 
 you to go find his son and give it to him so he can light the dragon fires and take his place as 
 king. 
  
  they story of oblivion is pretty much objective base. it basically consist of go here, find this, 
 and do do this. while there is a good amount of dialog, it mostly just explains the reason why 
 you need to do this and find that. while the dialog will sometimes attempt to develop the plot 
 or give a little background of the characters, it never fully does either. apart from the main 
 story, there are the guild and side quest and each offers there on little story lines. but again, 
 it's pretty much objective based. they story does throw in a few plot twist here and there but 
 they are just to few and far between for such a long game.
  
  fully sets the story
  
  clearly defines objective so you know why your doing what your doing
  
  only partially develops 
 plot
  
  only partially develops characters
  
  
  
  gameplay : 8
  
  oblivion can be played in both first and third person view. however you will probably want to stick 
 with first person because third person can be extremely awkward. playing in third person basically 
 fills like your playing in first person except now your character appears on screen and literally 
 just floats around when you move the camera. so the game play in oblivion is basically the same 
 as first person shooters but instead of guns you fight with medieval weapons like shield and swords 
 or a bow and arrow.
  the game also suffers from lag when your traveling through the world and the next area start loading. 
 even if you fast travel to an area you've already been to the game will lag as it auto saves your 
 progress, which can be annoying as it takes a good 45-60 seconds to finish auto saving.
  
  
  entertainment : 8.5
  
  oblivion starts off slow, but once you close your first oblivion 
 gate it opens up and becomes a game that you can get lost in for hours at a time. and since completing 
 the main and side quests will take anywhere from 200-400 hours, you will spend a good chunk of 
 your life in this game. however the main quest of the game can fell a little repetitive at times. 
 most of the main quest will consist of traveling through the forest, exploring sewers and caves, 
 and of course the plains of oblivion. you will travel to these locations many many times, and even 
 though the objectives are technically different, each time you sometimes get the filling that you've 
 already done this. eventually you will get tired of exploring the same environments over and over. 
 however the side quests and guild quests can offer relief, they too can fill repetitive over time.
 
  
  the fact that the game lags when auto saving and loading also takes away from the entertainment 
 but only slightly.
  
  
  overall : 8.5
  
  oblivion is an amazing game that you will invest a huge amount of time into. as the sound, graphics 
 and gameplay bring you in and make you feel at home, you will have a hard time putting down the 
 controller and hours will pass by in what feels like seconds. there may be a few bugs here and 
 there but it is still a game that everyone should try atleast once. a must own for old school rpg 
 fans and highly recommended for everyone else.
  
  
  graphics ; 9
  sound : 9
  story: 8
  gameplay : 8
  entertainment : 8.5
  
  overall : 8.5 highly recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phortheman
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 9, 2009 6:41 pm PT
Review:  Ah, Oblivion. A great follow up from Morrowind. A jaw dropping experience. Highly recommended. 
 Sure it might be pushing it with you being a prisoner in the Imperial City... again. I hope that 
 in the coming Elder Scrolls V they will be a farmer, a merchants son/daughter, or even an lost 
 member of the Septim family and is due to be the new emperor (way cool) . How ever being a prisoner 
 is just one poor thing in the game, in fact it is nothing compared to the great fun and choices 
 to be made in this great game and it all starts with you helping the emperor escape from assassins. 
 You choose your race, your facial Structure, your birth sign and your specialty skills. A full 
 character modification. And when you leave from the sewers (hey, a prison break isn't clean ALL 
 the time) you are free to roam around. You can get a job at a Guild or fight in the arena and ever 
 be an assassin (not the ones after the emperor) and you can buy a house or two or seven! And you 
 can explore a land so big and beautifully created or a dark creepy cave filled with zombies. So 
 many choices so little time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: swazidoughman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 6, 2009 3:25 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion was a mixed bag for me.
  While I found the combat to be a huge improvement, and the addition of voice acting nice, the game 
 just didn't have the same great feel as Morrowind.
  
  One of the major things I disliked is how small Cyrodiil is.
  It seemed as if it was at most 
 1/5 of the size of Vvanderfell.
  I also disliked how there was less variety in gear, and location.
  And on top of that the absence 
 of actual role-playing hindered the experience.
  
  Gameplay:
  Actual gameplay was fine.
  Stealth elements are much better this time around than they where 
 in Morrowind.
  Combat is also much better because it uses a superior hit on contact system rather than chance.
 
  And the Quests where easy to follow, almost to the point where they where not much more fun than 
 exploring the tiny gameworld.
  
  Graphics: 
  The graphics are good for an open world game.
  The game uses all the shader effects you would 
 expect from a game nowadays.
  The one thing odd about the graphics where character faces.
  The lip syncing is good enough, but some of the character faces are just plain bad.
  You end 
 up seeing strange Box headed wood elves, or unnaturally round headed Imperials.
  
  If you where brave enough to read my horrible writing then you get to see the score of a good, 
 but not Great 7.5
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: jojobubba
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 7:54 pm PT
Review:  I had never heard of Elder Scrolls before I bought my PS3. I love action/adventure games set in 
 a medieval time, so when I saw the cover to the game I was intrigued, but too poor to purchase. 
 Then one day, I walk into a Best Buy and see this game on a table to $20. I didn't pass up the 
 opportunity, and I did not regret it in the slightest.
  
  The graphics are stellar. I found myself wandering the landscape for hours just to enjoy the changes 
 in weather and time of day. Watching the grass and plants move so realistically proved to be a 
 thrill as well. Sometimes I found myself practicing sneaking up on the deer just to have a close 
 look. I have yet to see a game that compares in the immense amount of freedom mixed with such a 
 marvelous display of artistic ability.
  
  In terms of gameplay, the controls are easy to use. My wife and I, who are not FPS players, found 
 the first-person mode quite easy to learn, mostly because we had found a game that was worth our 
 time. The hotkeys make changing spells/weapons simple. The menus are simply designed. The difficulty 
 is "just right", since a player can adjust it in mid-game. The quests are a little simple, though, 
 since most walk the player right through them.
  
  One downside to this game, which in my own view keeps it from being a ten, involves the glitches. 
 There are far too many. Of course, I come to understand that that should be expected in such an 
 immense game. However, I found it far too frustrating to have to restart my system during freezes 
 and seeing white lines in the borders of various chambers/caves. 
  
  The other negative factor that holds the PS3 version back is that it does not have all the DLC 
 that the XBox has. It left me feeling a little cheated, because if I had bought the other version, 
 there would be a little more reward. However, I can't help but hear the words of my brother-in-law 
 ringing in my head. When he saw the PS3 version, he said, "The graphics on this one are better 
 than mine." While there is a lack in DLC, there is a far superior visual display. 
  
  Whichever version you happen to purchase, you won't be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IMgiovanna
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:41 am PT
Review:  I've been playing Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion for maybe 3 years now. I have completed the game several 
 times, and continue to go back, create a new character and do things differently and on a higher 
 difficulty level (which you can change in the middle of the game too) .
  
  I absolutely love this game. The graphics are fantastic! The characters are customizable, with 
 a wide array of race choices. The player can acquire many new skills, amass vast amounts of wealth, 
 buy all the houses and take over abandoned ones or just move into homes who belong to now-dead 
 owners, seek out and find treasures, magical items, clothing, armor, weaponry, and other items 
 throughout the game. This truly is an open-ended game. One can prolong gameplay as long as desired 
 or choose to snap through it in a breeze.
  
  Enemies level up as the character does, so you are never totally outmatched, although there are 
 some really tough fights in the game, and of course, the higher you set your difficulty, the tougher 
 the challenges become.
  
  I have only rarely had a glitchy occurrence here and there, and have to re-start, and it's generally 
 at a very high level or when I have too many save blocks going on in the PS3. The game is smooth, 
 the character moves beautifully and easily. The story lines are great. The voice-overs are good 
 although slightly limited in number  but that's easily overlooked, even after playing multiple 
 times. Controls are simple and straightforward to learn and remember, even if months pass before 
 playing again.
  
  There are many side quests, one main quest and many faction quests. There is just so much to do 
 and so little time to do it! One warning, this game can be totally addictive, so make sure you 
 do the other things you need to do in your life or people will get upset with you! My husband and 
 children support my gaming, but really hate it when I play this one because it can be so immersive.
 
  
  There are a couple of bugs, but with the extensive OblivioWiki, a player can learn about these 
 beforehand and avoid them. My experience with the game is 99.9% positive.
  
  The PS3 GoTY version is out and so I will be playing that now as it has Shivering Isles and Knights 
 of the Nine expansion packs on it. So that will be a new experience for me and as soon as I know 
 what I've gotten myself into I will review that too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Diddies
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 5, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion cannot be described into one word. But if you had to, then I would say 
 massive. So huge it would take you hours to walk to the other side of the map. This game is an 
 RPG (Role-Playing Game) . You make your character from how he looks to what type of character he 
 is from just a sword fighting warrior to some type of "Harry Potter" guy who throws spells all 
 over the place. Or even both if you wish.
  
  Oblivion takes place in a massive world called Tamriel. Like I stated earlier, you can design your 
 character from different classes like warriors, wizards, thieves, anything. You can choose to like 
 like some type of dinosaur, reptile thing. Once you do step out the caves for the first time, I 
 promise you will say something off Wow!!! Especially if you have never played an RPG before. 
 
  
  Your job or main quest is for you to close the gates to the hells of Oblivion. Because treacherous 
 creatures come from them and haunt the massive world of Tamriel. You can do the main quest which 
 takes around 50 hours to complete, but what you hear about the 200+ hours is to the optional quests. 
 Their are numerous amounts. You probably won't find them all without a walkthrough. You can pick 
 of just about anything from the flowers on the ground to the deer that you see running across the 
 field. Then unluckily bandits come around and try to kill you, or ask for your money to give to 
 them. Of course you are not going to do that, so let them have it with the spells, swords, or anything 
 you have including the things that God gave you. Your fists. 
  
  Their are hundreds of people with names and if you kill them, then they are dead and will remain 
 forever there where you killed them. But you should talk to everyone you come across to maybe get 
 some side quests. They range from collecting ingredients to assassinating people. But you do have 
 the choice to be a good guy or the evil, bad guy. However, what ever you choose, the local town 
 members will react to you on what you are. For example, if you are a bad guy, then most likely 
 the town's people will say rude things to you. If you are a good guy, then the town's people will 
 say nice and good things to you. 
  
  Fighting in Oblivion is exciting and very fast paced. However their are downsides to fighting. 
 First the good. The AI is good and make sure no two battles will EVER feel the same. Some times 
 you will fight one thing or person or some times you will fight multiple. You can use a bow and 
 arrow, sword, or just use your spells. Like most RPGs once you kill someone, you get to loot the 
 body. That is what makes the RPGs fun by getting money and other things to just make yourself a 
 better character to hopefully reach the full level 50. The downside of the fighting is that sometimes 
 when you are fighting with your sword, you don't really feel like you are hitting the person. No 
 blood marks or anything, you just see that he is dying, so that is a bit odd, but; however, it 
 is a good game.
  
  How you get better is using that skill. For instance, if you want to be better at swords, then 
 use the sword and over time you gain skill points. And after so many points it says sleep and you 
 then get the add attribute points such as strength, luck, intelligence, etc. When you level up 
 so do the bad guys, so you never get that feeling of every fight being easy until at least you 
 have almost maxed out your character.
  
  Now onto the graphics which are amazing, especially on the Playstation 3 system. The graphics on 
 this console is better than the Xbox 360 and the PC. Also the Playstation Version contains the 
 expansion of Knights of the Nine which the Xbox 360 and the PC don't have. The game has another 
 expansion as well called the Shivering Isles. The Playstation 3's load times are tremendously shorter 
 as well. You can ride horses as well to get you places faster or you can auto-skip to places you 
 have already been to or found. You will see beautiful landscape ranging from high top mountain 
 peaks to just lushes, beautiful jungles. You can find ancient ruins everywhere to swimming in beautiful, 
 detailed water. There are numerous cities in this game that will all be loved but the biggest and 
 most beautiful is Imperial City.
  
  The soundtrack of Oblivion is one of those songs you might download on your MP3 player. They have 
 numerous voice dialogue. I mean their is a lot of dialogue but a lot of the voices are the same. 
 You will find this out fast just playing the game. I promise it is a downside to the game.
  
  Overall this is a good game and should not be missed. But some might not like lengthy games. 
 This game can take you months to complete it. So go get it. The great storyline to just trying 
 to be a power house character is a long journey. And once you max out your character, you can be 
 the big daddy on campus and walk around just owning everything in sight and will probably have 
 thousands of dollars to buy what you want. You can buy a house in every town, and some come in 
 ways you may not want them. I won't let out any spoilers but just go get it know.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: goyolap
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 30, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  This going to be my first review in long time. Maybe I am not sharp as I used to be but with practice 
 I will restored my previous glory. Elder scroll Oblivion is one of the best RPG ever created. Know 
 you may be thinking if he says that one of the best experiences ever made why he gives it that 
 score. Well Elder is not perfect it contains a numerous of complains on my behave that you will 
 read further in the review so let begin.
  Elder Scroll is one well know franchise, in this installment the developers outdid there self crafting 
 and excellent RPG far beyond of imagination. The problem of this game that contains numerous upset. 
 Such as the empty world you most journey in it may be beautiful and sharp in terms of graphics, 
 but you will notice the among of recycle environment throughout the game. Let talk about the towns 
 the all have different flavor that distinguished the one of a other, but the town people all look 
 very similar to other towns. But there is no problem in that because of the huge scale of the game. 
 Venturing inside of oblivion is breathtaking the first time you enter does unholy lands. It's so 
 gorgeous the great amount of detail that was implemented to every object inside the realm. But 
 the real problem is that game is so big but you fill is really empty I can compare this map to 
 the scale of world of warcraft but the difference that in wow there is something in every corner 
 to do. Now let's talk about the gameplay, this game is unique in this part by combing typical first 
 person shooter oriented style mixing It up with traditional rpg style. Such customization ,character 
 development etc. The great part from my point of view that may turn out some players is that the 
 monster you encounter in your journey level up as you level up to in other words they become more 
 powerful. That can be difficult because if you adjust yourself to certain skill such as lock pinking 
 for starters your character is going to be weak in terms of stamina and power it will be more difficult 
 to fight monster and worse dragons. The great thing of oblivion that you always have something 
 to do no matter what unless you spend proximally 1000 hours in play maybe then you have all. There 
 guilds that you will obtain mission and rare items you can participate in all of them my favorite 
 is the dark brotherhood because the stealth in killing measure you must use to obtain rare items. 
 The main story takes like approximately 30 hours or less. It is really deep and you will feel a 
 great hero when you reach the final moments and also accomplished that you waste your life got 
 fired of the job because of playing this game lol. Now the bad news not everything is astonishing 
 for an example closing gate is the most boring job ever in the quest help for bruma you will have 
 to close 12 gates to proceed in the main story it will be monotonous suggestion might sound awkward 
 but do a time challage see how fast you can close the gate it will help a lot. There several fetch 
 mission but you would not notice them in the abundant of quest and task you have to perform. Now 
 the armor and weapons there are large variety of both weapons and armor most of the have clever 
 design like glass sword that are pretty cool. But I am not going to spoil the fun. The music is 
 awesome to the great orchestral and epic feeling in every part of the game. Bottom line is oblivion 
 is great game indeed but it has share of flaws for an rpg fan as myself I felt deeply submerge 
 in the game for 100 of hours no matter what is you r liking big sword or dagger, light armor or 
 heavy oblivion will have something for you to like. But warning this game is not for person that 
 consider that halo is the best game ever created because is mindless shooting and nothing more 
 lol a comic relief for ps3 fans alike. See ya in my next reviews that will start publishing them 
 shortly.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2008 1:00 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion was always set to be an ambitious game, an expasive role playing game that is open world 
 with a huge selection of quests to complete was never going to be an easy feat, to create or play. 
 However Bethseda Softworks did it, and althought they missed a few glitches, in the process they 
 created one of the best rpg's out there that really distances itself from the others.
  
  The character creation system within Oblivion is truly robust, with a selection of 9 races to choose 
 from, and not all of them look like humans, it really gives you a wild variety to choose from. 
 Not only can you choose the race, but how your character looks, creating some rather unique looking 
 individuals.
  What strikes you when you open up oblivion is the first person perspective, a rarity in RPG's, 
 let alone in rpg's that use classic weapons such as swords and bows. It makes combat more exciting 
 and gives you a real feel for combat instead of making you just feel like you are button mashing.
 
  
  The vast world of Cyrodil truly is a sight to see, expansive, full of characters and imperial city 
 really feels like its full of life, it's large districts though feel slightly empty due to it being 
 such a large city and so few inhabitants in some areas. However you can see the underlying classes 
 within the city, from the rich imperials to the poor beggars, the corrupt officials and the unfair 
 taxing. 
  
  The gameplay within Oblivion is stellar, with so much to do, it's hard to fault, the conversations 
 with npc's offer a wide variety of choices, and the amount of side quests ensure that you will 
 be playing this game for hours at a time. The navigation through Oblivion is very well thought 
 out, you can fast travel, travel by horse, and the navigation system itself is faultless, every 
 objective is clearly marked on the map and the compass itself ensures you are never lost or have 
 to endure hours of wandering around looking for one clue.
  
  The graphics however, don't seem to accomplish all that they could, while indeed the enviroments 
 themselves are top notch, the character models, although wide and varying, seem a little rubber 
 faced, and look dead in the eyes. Although it's hard to create characters that seem real within 
 games and are convincing, with oblivion when compared to how good the rest of the game is, it's 
 hard not to feel a little let down by the game.
  
  The places you visit within cyrodil and beyond are fascinating, from the planes of oblivion, which 
 remind you of a gothic version of hell, to the small towns you also see which have their own charm 
 about them. 
  
  The factions that you find within Oblivion are also fun and different, there is the fighter guild, 
 mages guild, dark brotherhood, thieves guild, and the arena, where you participate in fights to 
 the death. Each faction offers different and challenging quests, sometimes requiring you to do 
 more than fight your way to the finish.
  
  The greatest idea behind oblivion is the levelling system, levels are hard to attain but worthwhile, 
 when you do finally level up, you must rest and you'll gain new strengths. Your character can also 
 level up individual skills which can lead to new items being unlocked and also new skills such 
 as the abliity to disarm opponents etc.
  
  However bethseda missed a few glitches when testing the game, and it's these glitches that stop 
 oblivion from attaining perfection. Sometimes the characters faces dissapear for no reason, leaving 
 just the eyes and the skull during a conversation. Sometimes you can get bounty for no reason, 
 and sometimes people are hostile towards you for no reason. some characters voices change completely 
 for no reason at all, which is odd to say the least.
  
  Oblivion truly sets the bar for RPG's everywhere, its huge expansive and believeable world and 
 vast array of characters and enemies make this one of the best rpg's out there. However a few glitches 
 and dodgy graphics in some areas prevent it from reaching its full potential. Yet Oblivion makes 
 up for this by giving you a lot for your money, weapons, armour and a variety of quests, and now 
 being priced so cheaply everywhere. makes this a must have for anyone, as it can be enjoyed by 
 all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 25, 2008 7:55 pm PT
Review:  Due to the fact that i do not own Fallout 3 (at least not yet) , I decided I shall review a game 
 that instantly became one of my all-time favorites since the very first time I played it, The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion.
  
  First of all, Oblivion defines what an open-ended Role Playing Game is. There is an amazing amount 
 of options to customize your character according to your style of playing, in other words, you 
 can pretty much make your character any way you can imagine. You can choose your character's Race 
 (Imperial, Orc, 3 kinds of Elf, among other 5 races) , Sex, Class (Archer, Assassin, Warrior, Mage, 
 Bard... and many others) , Birthsign (The Thief, The Warrior, The Mage, and some others) . But if 
 THAT is not enough, you can make your own custom class, choose our major attributes and skills 
 to suit your style. best thing is, to level up your character, you don't have to kill as many enemies 
 as youc an to gain experience... no, that's boring and repetitive, rather, you level up by using 
 your main skills, taht is, if one of your skills is Marksman (Bow & Arrow) , you must use it to 
 level up and gain experience, as well as with your other skills, and each time you level up, you 
 get to upgrade one of your main attributes, sucha s Strength, Willpower, etc.
  
  Now, there's a huge amount of weapons and armor you can choose from, would you go with light armor 
 and use a cuirass of Leather or Mithril? Or would you rather use an armor of Iron or Steel? Use 
 a silver dagger? Or a Daedric Mace? It's awesome, there are dagger, long swords, short swords, 
 claymores, maces, hammers, bows, arrows, staffs... well, you get the idea. AND, armor is divided 
 in boots, greaves, cuirass, gauntlets, helmets, and shields, so can make any combination you want, 
 even with some clothing rather than armor. Also, you can wear two rings and an amulet.
  
  Now let's talk about magic, there are tons of different spells to use, each of which belongs to 
 a certain school of magic, each of which is a different kill to choose from, asides from Alchemy. 
 And if there's no spell which suits your needs, why not create your own spell with the effects 
 you desire? Hell, you can make spells which damage and heal your enemies at the same time, or even 
 make them hurt yourself to increase the skill... which is a very sick way of doing so. Also, I 
 forgot to mention you can enchant your weapons with most of the magic effects, and of course you 
 can create your own potions with the alchemical ingredients you'll find across your many adventures. 
 And if you're not the kind of guy who likes to use magic, but there's an occasion in which you'll 
 need to make use of it, but you can't because your skill isn't high enough, you can always bring 
 an enchanted staff, which won't waste your magicka and won't need you to have a high skill, but 
 you'll need to recharge it later on.
  
  Melee combat is just as good as the magic system, the more you increase your skill in blades or 
 Blunt weapons, the more moves you'll be able to pull off to stun, stagger, or disarm your enemy, 
 same with the Marksman skill.
  
  The province of Cyrodiil is HUGE, not only that which you can see there's tons of dungeons, caves, 
 forts, and mines you can enter, explore, and loot for great treasures, ranging from gold, to weapons 
 and armor, to jewels, to just plain junk. Not to mention all the stuff your enemies drop when killed. 
 There are 9 main cities, including The Imperial City and Kvatch (My House, because you can buy 
 houses, is in Skingrad, but Cheydinhal is my favorite) . And there's also many, many little towns, 
 inns, and chapels all over the province. Cyrodiil is a huge, HUGE place to explore, full of quests....
 
  
  Yeah, Quests can vary from simple delivery errands to more complicated, intricate and laborious 
 quests. Of course there's the main quest, but you'll come across so many other quests along the 
 way that you'll often want to complete them first, adn THEN you'll come across Guild Quests, yeah 
 taht's right, each guild has its own Quests (The Mages Guild has the best Quest line, involving 
 an attack of Necromancers and the very king of Worms, Mannimarco... yes, worms) . The Guild involve 
 the Mages Guild, Fighters Guild, Thieves Guild, Dark Brotherhood (Assassins) , and the Arena, asides 
 from a few honorary titles, like The Blades, Knights of the Thorn, Order of the Virtuous Blood, 
 among others.
  
  Seriously, I only described like half of the game's features and many aspects that make the game 
 the ultimate RPG experience. But WAIT, the best aspect about the PS3 version of the game is that 
 it has The Knights of the Nine plug-in included, so that means another full quest line with plenty 
 of rewards and new items, the most notorious being the armor and weapons of The Divine Crusader, 
 and your own army of Knights, and of course, you being recognized as the one who recovered the 
 Relics of the Crusader and killed Umaril the Unfeathered in both the mortal and the spiritual plains.
 
  
  I've spent +140 hours on this game, and I've completed every single quest I could come across, 
 just imagine how immersive this game is, and just how freaking awesome it is. And then there's 
 the Shivering Isles expansion pack... however, I'll talk about it in it's own respective review, 
 but I'll just tell you it adds many, many more hours of gameplay.
  
  So finally, Overall, two years ago Oblivion was THE game, the definition of Awesomeness, and it 
 still is nowadays, and if you don't own it yet, what are you waiting for? Go buy it right now, 
 you won't regret it. But of course, there's Fallout 3 now... so just ask yourself this, what do 
 you prefer? Guns or Swords? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cleodman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 9:51 pm PT
Review:  It you want an RPG that is the epitome of realism and includes every factor possible in governing 
 the gameplay then Oblivion is the game for you. Hate linear gameplay? Well endless possibilities 
 await in this beautifully laid out adventure.
  
  Like most others I was completely enthralled with the game in my first week of playing it. The 
 graphics and attention to detail are amazing. Every door opened or character talked to introduces 
 a new mini-quest to your never ending list. I held off on the main quest for as long as I could. 
 
  
  However, the more I played Oblivion the less impressed I became. I'm not here to argue that Oblivion 
 is not a truly remarkable game, but that for my tastes it spends too much time on the outside extra 
 mini guests and way too little on the main quest itself. Too be honest after becoming arena champion, 
 fighter's guild champion and so on, I started losing interest. The same 4 voices for every character 
 really grows tiresome also. The best quest would have to be the Knights of the Nine... by far. Some 
 CG graphics at key points in the game would have been nice also.
  
  Overall I enjoyed messing around with Oblivion for the many hours that it provided entertainment, 
 but one day I just thought it was time to stop my endless wandering. I've never been a fan of the 
 online RPG's, and Oblivion basically has the format of an online RPG for one. It may be comparing 
 apples to oranges but I prefer an RPG that supplies a little more game (even if at the sacrifice 
 of realism) and a little less wandering... like any title from the Final Fantasy series. Just an 
 opinion.
  
  9/10
  
  I 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spherious
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Bethesda produced yet another superub rpg. I'd had played Morriwind but it does not even come close 
 to measureing up to Oblivion. So lets take a look into this awesome game.
  The Good: Pretty much limitless possibilities for creating your own charcter. You are allowed to 
 do whatever you want over the course of the game, I've played for 100 plus hours and have done 
 so little of the main quest. Nice combat system and great animations. The story and music is absolutly 
 epic! I don't think it is possible for this game to get old since there is so much to do. You can 
 go hunt some bandits or vampires or help a town of invisible people. Bored with the world of Cyrodill? 
 Then take a trip to the hellish and tougher enviorments of the plains of Oblivion. I would suggest 
 getting the GoTY edition so you also get to play Knights of the Nine and Shivering Isles both worthwhile 
 addons. You always have a challenge since the enemies level with you. While this does take away 
 from you feeling almighty some clever fighting can led to one shot kills. There are so many mini 
 stories within the game. The struggles in the guilds and whatnot. 
  The Bad: Some problems with the speaking animation.
  Overall Oblivion is a fantastic rpg that 
 should be missed by none. Can't wait to get my hands on Fallout 3 later this month. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheSnakeInCamo
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  Best Game i have EVER played! :D The Guards kept me intrested as i stole crap :D XD I ran into 
 a vampire den lol! I would play this for years! just i really dont see how rats are that agressive 
 or that big... BUT HELL YEA!!! The Graphics when the people spoke were a little bad though, since 
 they were still and theres lips moved. i love the magic though, not all the races were good either 
 though. I am sure most people will agree that the word 'Magicka' is awesome. the lvls were awesome 
 but i got a little spooked in the sewers, lol... i wished i had made the game, id more than likely 
 be rich. and im also just going off to get characters so i can finish this review  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curranh
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 27, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I personally enjoyed being able to create and design my own players status. How detailed you could 
 get each feature of the players face to fit your qualifications. I liked throughout the game that 
 there weren't to many videos about the story which added to the free world concept; you had to 
 figure it out with the information given to you. Which also meant that, in my case, that I had 
 forgotten some of the side guests or objectives. But in the settings there's a recording mechanism 
 that saves the objects, important quotes, and information the entire quest. 
  I enjoyed the variety of weapons that you you pick up from dead foes or steal or buy from a weapons 
 vendor. Which leads to being able to search dead bodies for expensive items to trade and sell. 
 I love the the fighters and mage's guilds in each castle that provide free weapons or spells and 
 apparel. Also how you can be sent on missions and quests by them. i have more to say but not enough 
 room. 
  -curranh 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shmiillee
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 11, 2008 1:49 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a maasive game, with few flaws. It is so giagantic in both its map and story mode that 
 you couldn't finish it until you had played for atleast 60hours (more if like me you have fun mucking 
 around and killing everyone) . But if you really want the best gaming experience out of this game 
 spend the extra few dollars and get the "Game of the Year Edition" which has an extra two massive 
 story lines.
  
  Here are the possitive aspects of the game:
  
  Story - This game not only has a massive main story mode, but there are so many story lines! Every 
 guild that you join has its own story to tell, and individual missions. The guilds are the; Assassins 
 guild, Theives guild; Mages guild; Warriors guild and I think I might be forgeting one.
  
  If you are a wise money spender, you will buy the "Game of the Year Edition" which comes packed 
 with more story lines! Which are "The Knights of the Nine" and "The Shivering Isles". These are 
 both big campaigns and will offer hours of extra entertainment.
  
  Map - The map, oh the map. This is the biggest map I have ever seen on any console game. To give 
 you a bit of an idea, if you walk from West to East it will take you up to an hour depending on 
 how many mountains are in your way. And I know what your thinking, with a map that big its just 
 going to get boring traveling around. Well your wrong.
  
  A feature which I found incredibly useful is the fast travel feature. This is like teleporting 
 except it just fast forwards several hours depending on how far you fast travel.
  
  Another feature that makes the map amazing is that if you go out wandering through the vast wilderness 
 ypu'd think it'd just be trees and grass and the odd beast that's hungry. Well, you're right. But 
 there's more than just that, when you go exploring you constantly stumble across ancient ruins 
 or canp sites or even the odd iscolated farm with a mission attatched. 
  
  Gameplay - You don't let the CPU players decide what the topic or nature of the descusion is, you 
 can choose the topic and the mood in which it is said (depends on whether you get along with the 
 person or not) . It's best to be good friends with as many people as possible, because the higher 
 the diposition (how much they like you) is, the more information they are willing to share with 
 you.
  
  However, this game is not with its minor flaws. When traveling by horse through the dense wilderness 
 you are subject to lag, but this is completely understandable since there is so much nfor the console 
 to load.
  
  Another let down was graphics, although they're not terrible they could have been alot better. 
 The game graphics did not quite meet my expectations of a next generation console. But keep in 
 mind that compared to all the possitives of the game these two flaws can be easily overlooked.
 
  
  All in all, this is definately a game I would recomend to any one who likes medi-eval games where 
 you can do whatever the hell you want.
  
  SIMILAR GAMES-
  Runescape
  Fallout3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:38 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV OBLIVION Review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  The Good:
  Nice Visuals 
  Awesome Game-play
  The Lifespan
  
  
  The Bad:
  Voice Acting
  Need 
 time to play
  Corny Animation
  
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV OBLIVION is a game that needs a lot of time spent on the game to really appreciate. 
 The game is massive and will take you a very long time to fully complete. Even if you play the 
 game for 10 hours on your first play through is nothing. Other game you feel like you've really 
 gotten far in 10 hours but for OBLIVION, your no were near the heart of the game. 10 hours to OBLIVION 
 is like 1 second of game-play, and that's a good thing if you're looking for a game that will take 
 you a very long time to finish. However I find the game being boring at time. You have to fight 
 a lot to level up your character. Now I've got nothing wrong with that. I like Final Fantasy and 
 RPG game but even with Final Fantasy, it just get boring after awhile. The graphics in OBLIVION 
 is good. The game-play is excellent that give you the choice to ether play the game in 1st person 
 view or 3rd person view. There is so many thing you can do I the game. Good sound effects, voice 
 acting, animation and face excretions can feel weak at times and ever though something is serious 
 you can't help but laugh. Anyway yes the game is very good but as I said, you need to put a lot 
 of time into the game. If you have the time, the game is for you. 
  
  Graphics  7/10
  Game-Play  9/10
  Sound Effects  6/10
  Presentation  7/10
  My Say  7/10
  
  OVERALL 
  7/10
  
  Better on the PC i think.
  
  Simon. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xboxgamer3
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 1, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  I don't know where to start, very fun quests, unlimited customization and different armors, weapons, 
 spells, magic, food, houses, friends, enemies, dungeons, and a gigantic map to explore! One of 
 my favorite things is the guild system, some guilds, such as a Magic Guild, or a Legal Fighters 
 Guild, are very direct and easy to join. But others such as The Dark Brotherhood (assassins guild) , 
 or the Thieves Guild are very indirect. It is hinted in loading screens, and people talking throughout 
 the streets, that it is a rumor that homeless people are the Thieves Guild's eyes and ears. So 
 I thought in my head, if homeless people are MAYBE the thieves Guild's eyes and ears, I should 
 talk to one. (homeless people are all around) So I did, and after I persuaded them, and they told 
 me all about how to join the guild. Another thing that I really enjoy about this game is they very 
 deep RPG element, yes it is an RPG game I know, but there are so many things to pick up after you 
 kill a strong enemy, also one time I was exploring off the road and I searched a cave (also everywhere) 
 and there were no rats, no anything, just an obstacle course type thing, and at the end of the 
 course, I found a VERY shiny crystal jewel worth about 10,000 Gold (which is a ton of money in 
 this game, especially in one big chunk) . Another instance of something like this, is one time I 
 went into a cave and there were like 4 vampires living in the cave, so I killed one in his sleep, 
 and I had a long battle with the rest eventually taking them out (owning with my magic as usual 
 :D) . Oh yes and I almost forgot... The ARENA! The arena is a very fun and action packed way to 
 earn money if you are a good fighter. I hope that I have helped you decide on getting this game, 
 I know that it has been out for a very long while, it is still a good game. Before I played CoD4 
 I was highly addicted to this game, but now that CoD4 is getting old, I am back addicted to this 
 Masterpiece :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS310
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 30, 2008 4:23 pm PT
Review:  O. K this was the only game I bought for the summer, but it was worth the money I spend on it. At 
 first one might think that this game is slow and maybe boring. At least I thought it was boring 
 when I started, but when you get to the outside and you get to see all the world that you can explore, 
 your opinion will totally change of this great piece of work.
  Lets talk about the good things first (well, me write, you read) . The game offers you the possibility 
 to be what ever character you want, seriously, the only real thing that you cant be is a mix of 
 races (which would be cool, can you imagina a combination of an Orc and a Breton? that would be 
 so bad ass) . You can combine your powers so that the game suits your playing style so that you 
 dont have to adapt to a forced style.
  The next positive aspect of Oblivion is the large diversity of enemies and locations that you will 
 find, its really hard to get bored playing this game, it doesnt matter if its either exploring 
 or following the main storyline, theres a huge diversity of things to do or kill.
  The last good thing I want to point out is the music and graphics of the game, they both are very 
 good. The music constantly changes giving a sense of peace when you walking through the woods, 
 changing to alertness and exciment when enemies have spotted you. The graphics also look good, 
 almost each NPC that you encounter (not counting the bandits) is different from one another, the 
 only that look alike are the Argonians and the Khajits, but even them have their differences, so 
 theres also a lot of variety.
  Now on to the bad aspects.
  This game has quite a few of glitches, the main one being that sometimes (very few times) the game 
 freezes when saving or entering somewhere. When this happens I have found no other solution other 
 than having to shut down the PS3 and turningpon again (fotunately it has only happened two or three 
 times to me) .
  The other time is that sometimes your character gets stuck in the direction your moving for a couple 
 of seconds, not necesseraly harmfull for your character, but its tiresome.
  The last aspect of this game I want to critic is the length of the main quest. While you can do 
 losts of things on this game and it will take you a long time to complete all the quests, the main 
 quest can be finished in one or two days. And its a great story that could have been extended a 
 little more to make it more appealing without making it boring.
  Thats it, that was my reveiw for the Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. Thanks. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matchpenalty11
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 24, 2008 1:46 pm PT
Review:  Setting:
  Oblivion takes place in the province of Cyrodril situated west of Morrowind. The start of the game 
 revolves around the death of the Emperor and the opening of several hellish portals called Oblivion 
 gates which leads to an alternate dimension. The main quest basically involves you trying to crown 
 a new emperor and close the Oblivion Gates.
  
  Gameplay: 
  Basically a first person rpg. Combat consists of ranged, magic, and melee attacks. Wide variety 
 of weapons and armor which can be enchanted with special properties. There are plenty of side quests 
 although they can sometimes get a little repetitive. 
  
  Graphics: Some of the better graphics on the PS3. 
  
  Story:
  There are about 5 different 
 plotlines in addition to the main storyline which adds plenty of depth to the game.
  
  Overall: One of the best games of 2006 will keep you entertained for a very long time. 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Snakeeyes190
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 22, 2008 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Hello lowly prison of the empire. You've just been given a new lease on life by way of the escape 
 of the Emperor himself having to flee for his life through your cell. As you follow the Emperor 
 to escape you will relearn lost skills and eventually escape after the death of Septim, who has 
 given you the job of finding the last son of his line. But with freedom do you have to find the 
 boy or do you return to the path that imprisoned you in the first place? The roads are now open 
 to you. 
  Well there you have the rough outline of the opening part of the game from your unfortunate waking 
 up in a prison cell (I like to think it was for grave robbing, you do enough of it in the game) 
 and escape freedom. While it may appear at the early points in the game that there is an infinite 
 level to what you can and cannot do, even if you do all the side quest in the game eventually you 
 will have to do the story quest (But doing all the side quest will help you build up skills and 
 get cool items to help in the woefully easy main quest) . This is not to say that there is not a 
 lot to do in game and trust me you will do a lot if you do every quest possible (don't plan on 
 a life with this game) . The main story is linear and while each part leaves you options on how 
 to reach your goal it always leads to the same ending no matter how good or bad you were in the 
 game.
  
  The game runs like a cross between a first person shooter and an RPG (kinda sounds like a bad idea 
 but really isn't) . The elements mesh well together with the real time combat and individual skill 
 growth instead of gaining experience. The character levels up when skills reach a certain point 
 at which point a person can choose to improve the stats. The one complaint I had about the gameplay 
 was that there isn't many creatures that out classed your character, most creatures were levelled 
 to the level of your character while a few were preset to a level higher then you. Combat Ai also 
 seemed to have two styles, the melee combatant who got in close swinging, and the shooter who attacked 
 from the distance. The styles became predictable and easily combated. Probably one of the cooler 
 features of the game is one you don't see as much but it is the simulation of life presented in 
 the towns, they move around, eat, talk, and sleep. This feature you don't so much see as become 
 immersed by it (and its great to hear them gossiping about your accomplishments as the quest are 
 completed) .
  Sound wise the game is just as well done with both the realistic sound of clothing movement as 
 your character walks and the serene sound of metal bashing metal in combat. The sound is exquisitely 
 done and sounds realistic (including the sound of magic) but the flaw that is noticed is in voice 
 work of the everyday players where the characters come off as flat and simple minded (Sean Bean, 
 Patrick Stewart, and Terence Stamp are not included in that group) and in some case's they voice 
 doesn't seem right or switch's between one style of voice and another, but some of the conversations 
 are openly funny (find the owner of one shop in Skingrad for a rather fun conversation on the law.) 
 
  Graphically the game is gorgeous with vast open stretches of wilderness, cities and towns that 
 look to belong in medieval Europe from regions such as England, Italy, Germany and others and the 
 realm of oblivion which is best describe as Hell (with out the devil to poke you with his pitch 
 fork.) . The different characters have a natural design and movement to them but can be repetitive 
 in design with the similar design of characters or the complete reusing of models. The interior's 
 of buildings are just as well done but are also repetitive with only a limited number of models 
 and textures are used and seen (but to be honest I played for over twenty hours before seeing this 
 thinking I went in the same dungeon again.) .
  
  Okay now the game is really good and while it does have a somewhat repetitive design in dungeons 
 and characters it is still a game worth playing.
  
  Now The expansion material: by this I mean the shivering island and Knights of the nine.
  
 
  The Knights of the Nine is more a quest pack which adds a relatively long quest to get what is 
 possibly the strongest weapon and armour set in the game. This does not add any new style environment's 
 or any new spells but does add a very good quest and is worth it as an add on.
  
  The shivering Island is a true expansion which adds a new world to explore and new creatures to 
 fight as you work for the Daedric lord of madness. The island match's up with the lord and is split 
 down the middle between a dark brooding and sad land and a bright and overly cheery almost artistic 
 realm. Now while this is a great environment and has a lot to explore the quest are simple find 
 an item and bring it back to the lord or some variant on this idea. Still if you want to expand 
 the game this is a worthy expansion.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamesmaster5
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 20, 2008 4:39 am PT
Review:  This game is definitely a step in the write direction for future console RPG's! The game itself 
 has had much time to develop over the many years its been modified. And when the finished product 
 came around everyone was absolutely delighted with the end result. This is the only game I've given 
 10/10. And do you know why? Freedom. This game allows you to take any path in your life at any 
 point in the game and alter the course of the worlds future!
  
  You can be a goody-too-shoes and complete all of the good missions by the good people and slay 
 all the mean monsters. Or... you can kill every person in the game! (with the exception of a few) 
 Ooooh... but don't think you're going to get away with it! The guards will constantly hound and 
 attack you until you succumb to them or go to jail. So it's best do this at a later stage in the 
 game for a bit of fun.
  
  As well as this, don't even get me started on the variety of armour, weaponry and magic available 
 to you! The inclusion of making your own spells and enchanted weaponry/armour is genius! And with 
 100's of miles of walking distance around the lush forestry that spreads over the map your hand 
 will be aching from holding the joystick forward for so long (though with the odd imp or bear to 
 fight) There must be at least 150 dungeons and caves dotted around the map to explore! Also with 
 tons of downloadable content even adding new cities!
  
  But anyway, that's my point! You can complete any mission in any order, purposely fail them or 
 rat out an evil mission. And the graphics! Woah... possibly the best I've ever seen!! With the inclusion 
 of 100's of missions, (none of which are relatively short) you'll be playing this game for a very, 
 very long time.
  
  Review submitted by : Gamesmaster5
  
  Thx for reading! Please give me your opinion on it 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elrrond
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 28, 2008 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is definitely one of the best games I have ever played. Its massive world, with hundreds 
 of things to do from the main quest to hundreds of other side quests, guilds, the arena, and just 
 exploring the world itself, for armor, potions, scrolls, magic, rare artifacts and other things 
 will definitely keep you playing for hours at a time. Also, you level up in all of your skills 
 and you can specialize in one skill from seven major skills to 14 minor skills, or you can just 
 be good at them all. overall-lots of stuff to do.
  The game starts in a jail cell and you eventually escape (I won't tell you the details to keep 
 from spoiling it) into the province of Cyrodiil (the game whole game world) . Once you get out you 
 get to pick your race and class and then customize your whole character and name them. And from 
 there on it's basically want you want to do. 
  The Graphics are spectacular, same with the sound, and physics. The People in the game are also 
 very realistic. They don't just walk around dumbly or walk into walls, but actually go to bed at 
 night open their stores at a certain time every morning, go to bars, stores, ect, and chat with 
 other people around them about things happening. You can chat with them too about different topics 
 to choose from which could also give you new quests to check out.
  Flaws- frame rate issues sometimes, lots of glitches, person looks dumb from third person view, 
 when fighting and jumping and swimming, but the game is mainly supposed to be played in first person. 
 
  overall, I would definitely recommend buying Oblivion, if your not so sure, check it out. Oblivion 
 is a great RPG that you will not want to miss out on. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mcnugget2256
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is my favorite game. It is hard to explain how good it is, so ill just bullets.
  
  -Create a character. Create an Argonian, an Orc, maybe a Dark elf, or just create yourself.
 
  
  -You be what you want to be. Do you want to use stealth to your advantage? Or be a weapon Knight. You 
 can also be a Mage and use Magic.
  
  -Graphics and Looks. That is one of the best things about the game. The  
 Caves look extremly good.
  
  -Weapons. The weapons tou get to choose from are amazing. You can choose from Blade, Blunt, Bow and 
 Arrow, and dagger. Blunt is basicly Axe, War Hammer, Club, Mace, ect.
  
  -Spells and Enchantments. The spells are amazing. They range from fire, frost, shock, light, soul trap, conjuration, and 
 others. You can also enchant your own armor, clothing, and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhgamer
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 13, 2008 7:11 pm PT
Review:  You want a game that makes you not want to put down the controller then get this one. It is the 
 best RPG ever and it is unmatched by any game out there (I'm writing this in October 2008, over 
 a year since it has come out) . If you like RPGs that are time consuming but give you the opportunity 
 to take a break at any time then this is the game for you. Its changeable difficulty allows you 
 to enjoy it no matter how much experience you have with these types of games. It is also very open 
 to newcomers to these kinds of games. You can easily spend over a hundred hours on this game without 
 getting bored thanks to its adapting surroundings. As you get stronger so will everything around 
 you. Have fun with this one. I beat you that you will enjoy it. It is very even when it comes to 
 what you can do. The main story is very good and enticing. There are also a huge amount of side 
 missions that will allow you to chose between being a nice guy, an evil dude or something in between. 
 Go out and get this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mramazing07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 10:51 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying i was one of the many people that HATED this game!! i picked it up when 
 i had a 360 and couldnt stand it... was expecting Something completely diff... Well after buying 
 a ps3... and since ps3 has no good rpgs up to date... i said you know what its been a year let 
 me try it again!... Once again i was ehh... but after about 4 hours... i can honestly say i see why 
 is deserves a 9.5... this game is one of the best rpgs ive played... ever. Game play is a little 
 wierd at first, after you get the hang of it and learn how to use all ur skills you begin lovin 
 this game!... Graphics are above average especially with the size of the game... you can explore 
 for days! 
  
  If you have not played or did not like it at one point... suck it up and try it out... it grows 
 on you... trust me! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 10, 2008 2:25 pm PT
Review:  There is so much that I could say about this game, so here goes. I have played all three versions 
 of TESO4 and all three are fantastic. The game is very solid and draws you in further and further 
 each time. The be who you want to be and play how you want to play style of gaming is great. Some 
 people may say that it is too linear and you have to do certain things, etc. Every game is like that 
 to a point, otherwise it would have no story.
  The game levels up the AI according to what level you are for the most part and makes you think 
 about what you need to upgrade more-so than other rpgs. Althought some enemies like Umbra are already 
 at a high level and require cunning to beat them. It also has a couple of add-ons for it such as 
 Knights of the Nine and Shivering Isles the two most popular versions. The PS3 version already comes 
 with KOTN add on so that helps alot.
  The sounds are done very well and the voice acting is top notch, Although the same actors do alot 
 of the vocies, but even so it is very good and the npc's in the game do a pretty good job at having 
 emotions and moving their mouths to talk.
  The other thing I liked more in TESO is the combat system. It is much improved from Morrowind and 
 most weapons do the correct amount of damage.
  The world is huge, the games characters are fantastic and the presentation is great too. This is 
 a must buy for any rpg fan and can be found at most stores for $29.99 for the regular version. Do 
 yourself a favor and buy this game, you may find yourself so immersed in it that you dont want to 
 go to work. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dulichild
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 7, 2008 4:33 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls Four: Oblivion is a great game that you will play for ever then you just stop playing. 
 Either from boredom or a power glitch that sent your saved data down the drain. This is why whenever 
 you play a game that doesn't limit your saves you keep at least a two alternating save game slot. 
 Anyway, this game comes with many quests by the game itself, but the PS3 version comes with the 
 Knights of the Nine add-on which gives you another quest along with weapons armor magic scrolls 
 and spells, and patches. The only downside to this game is Bethesda (creator) did their best to 
 stop this, but when you go on a killing spree some people who are active in a quest die. A message 
 should appear that you can't complete the quest anymore or the person just goes unconscious. Sometimes 
 none of these two work or even occur. My game is completely glitched, which means I used the duplication 
 glitch to much and something happened so certain points it get so laggy, game freeze, or locations 
 of monuments arean't on the map or are just not where they are supposed to be. So if you are going 
 to us the duplication cheat, do not use more than 99 scrolls. Back to the game. The quests are 
 great. The main quest is a great awesome adventure. SPOILER ALERT. The end of the quest where Martin 
 died saving the world was queit moving. The only downside to completing the main quest is the armor 
 you get is a certain level that is based of your light or heavy armor rating. So you complete The 
 Main Quest and you get the armor when you are level 23. Your armor is always going to be level 
 18. You are eventually going to upgrade to a better armor. Also the main quest once completion 
 is aquired there are no more oblivion gates which means no more daedric armor, weapons, and artifacts. 
 So don't compete the main quest fully if you want to stalk up on Daedric items first. The rest 
 of the game can be fun if you have a friend who also plays it so you can compare sub-quests completed, 
 areas and locations found, weapons and armor, and of course levels. Elder Scrolls Four: Oblivion-It 
 is worthy of getting a 10.0, but there are those glitches where you get stuck and such that makes 
 you angry. That's why I gave OBLIVION a 9.5 out of 10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cbofthecs
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 30, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  I like this game A LOT. I owned it once before but someone stole all my video games and controller 
 and movie and radio but not the actual PlayStation. But I might buy this game again. Its either 
 this or Uncharted: Drake's Fortune.
  
  I played this game many times over taking many differnt paths but I never got more then a few missions 
 into the main story. I was always to busy exploring caves and tombs while trying to progress in 
 guilds or helping people around the towns and villages.
  
  You can join secret guilds such as the assassins guild. Or you can try your luck in the arena or 
 join the fighters guild. Maybe you want to know all about the rich history of the world and go 
 in search for rare books.
  
  It is a very long game and if you get the game of the year edition then it opens up whole new worlds 
 for you to explore all over again.
  
  
  You will spend hours and still only scratch at the surface of this deep game.
  
  This game 
 is well worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Big-BossSnake
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 5:07 am PT
Review:  This game is one of my favorites!
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the best RPG that you'll ever probably see!
  The Elder Scrolls 
 IV is set in the medieval era in a fantasy universe.
  One unique thing about the Elder Scrolls series is that you can make your own character, you can 
 chose what race it is what gender what are its strong points and so on.
  The Elder Scrolls IV is no exception, i would rate this game 10 out of 10 if it wasen't for a few 
 glitches and visual mess ups, now for the review.
  
  STORY-You get involved in an assassination on the Emperor moments before his death he asks you 
 to find his secret son in the city of Kavatch, you go there to find the city in ruins attacked 
 by hellish creatures from the realm of Oblivion.
  The main story is interesting and involving but its really there just to get you started and moving.
 
  you'll probably get distracted from the main quest by the hundreds of side quests provided by 
 the hundreds of unique characters.
  You can find out much more about this world by reading in game books and talking to people.
  
 Everything about this including the story makes you feel like you'r really in the game!
  STORY=9.8
  
  PRESENTATION-The game looks very good exept for a few glitches.
  The frame rate 
 is usuely good but if you; r fighting many enemies at once the frame rate will go incredibly slow.
 
  PRESENTATION=8.5
  
  SOUND-The music is symply wonderfal, the soundtrack matches the situation and the music is unique, 
 but sound isn't just la la la music it is also voice acting and there aren't many voice acters 
 but the voice acting is really good exept for the beggers which switch voice and that doesn't sound 
 good.
  Sometimes when you hit something it doesn't sound right.
  But those aren't major isues.
  SOUND=9.5
  
  GAMEPLAY-As I said you can make your character 
 and choose its good points and as I also said there are hundreds of characters .
  The fighting is straight forward slash, slash, block, slash and so on.
  There are hundreds of 
 quests but because of glitches sometimes you can't complete the quest but this is rare.
  There are a few major cities all uniqe as the gameplay is.
  GAMEPLAY=8.1
  
  Altogether this 
 game is unique and even if you don't like RPG's or this theme this game is defenatly worth a lot 
 of time. OVERALL=9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stronghold8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  TES 4 Oblivion is a amazing big open role playing game. Even if you've never played others games 
 in the series you will definitely like this game. At the beginning of the game you start doing 
 the character creation which has pretty much endless possibilities. You can be a thief, warrior, mage 
 or anything in between. Once you have done the tutorial you are free to do whatever you want from 
 doing the main quest to joining a guild to just killing stuff. There is tons of replay value because 
 just doing all the quests would probably take 200+ hours. The load times are fairly short and you 
 won't find yourself getting angry waiting for the screen to load. The Graphics are breath taking 
 aside from a few small details. One thing I found interesting is the crime system. Murder, theft 
 and other crimes if caught a guard will try to arrest you giving you three options: pay a fine, go 
 to jail and resist arrest (all guards will try to kill you and you must kill them or try to escape) 
 
  
  The Shivering Isles Expansion is available on the PlayStation Store or for retail purchase it is 
 also including in the game of the year edition of the game. In it you find yourself in a strange 
 realm by entering through a door added after installation. You will find most of the characters 
 inside if not all are lunatics and the realm itself looks very strange.
  
  This is definitely a must have for all PS3 owners.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: CosmoKing7717
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:27 pm PT
Review:  This game is literally a recreation of those amazing forests and cities seen in fantasy books such 
 as Sword of Shinarra, Eragon and LOTR. The game takes place with the character starting off in 
 a prison, where it just happens there is a secret escape tunnel for the king to take to get out 
 of the city. The story soon starts becoming far more complex, with side-quests leading you left 
 and right and even to hell. 
  The game-play is amazing. At first, i was skeptical that a First Person RPG actually works, but 
 after playing 10 hours (aka getting out of the first section and advancing some) it becomes one 
 of the most enjoyable experiences ever. One can become a bowman, warrior, mage or even a hybrid 
 of the three depending on tastes, leading to varied gameplay experiences each time. 
  The game is beautiful as it gets. From the varied terrain of ice capped mountains to dark dungeons 
 with several types of monsters to defeat, the game will always have a point where you just have 
 to take it in. The draw distances adds to this, seeing water stretch on for miles with mountains 
 in the distance that sooner or later you will be doing a quest on. The music adds to this, with 
 a nice orchestral piece adding to the serene off the forests and creepiness of the dungeons.
  Overall, this game is literally the most one can get out of 60 (now 30) dollars. With easily 200+ 
 hours of gameplay with just ONE CHARACTER, this game could last someone a whole year and still 
 have more to do, especially with the Knights of the Nine expansion and Shivering Isles expansion, 
 adding around 50 hours. Easily deserves to be in anyone's collection for all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winecigarette
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 6, 2008 8:01 am PT
Review:  This game is just fun to play, it has really amazing graphics compared to other games. Graphics 
 are really beautiful (I don't use the word beautiful much but this game deserves to get this word.) 
 There are some minor problems in the game but the graphic of the game will let you forget about 
 this minor things. (loading time sometimes gets to you but nothing mayor that will interfere with 
 your gaming style) This game gets harder as you level up so it becomes challenging for any type 
 of gamer. Leveling can be a problem as you can level up pretty quickly compared to other games 
 but if you know how to take the advantage of such levelling methods used in the game you can enjoy 
 this beautiful game.
  (**tip: sneak skill can be raised easily by going to bruma "punch a guard and go to jail" in the 
 jail cell there is a corner with a candle, go to this corner and perform the sneak while looking 
 at the jail mate and keep walking backwards keep this up and you can reach master level really 
 quickly**) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robotb95
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 3, 2008 4:34 am PT
Review:  oblivion has got to be one of the best r. p. g game on the market at the moment. There is so much 
 to do in it once I got past the first mission I had no idea what I should do, I could have maybe 
 try to put my skills up or do a quest. The story is about the emperor has been assassinated along 
 with all the heirs so you have to find a heir to the throne, but at the same time you have to close 
 the gates of oblivion. The graphics are amazing, the game does not leave you bored as there is 
 always something to do.
  
  At the begging of the game you pick a race there's all sorts from humans to an elf. although this 
 game isn't the best game in the world all PS3 owners have to buy this game.
  
  there's a surprise around every corner I remember being chased buy a cat with a giant axe. Altogether 
 there are four guilds in total. you get three fight classes these are: archer, magician and melee. 
 melee is the art of wielding a sword and shield archer is the skill of using a bow and arrow and 
 final magician is the art of casting spells.
  
  you would be mad not to buy this game. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kuraime
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 7, 2008 2:07 am PT
Review:  As the third coming of Fallout is underway, I thought I'd take a look at Bethesda's previous game, 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. Undoubtedly, this game and Fallout will have things in common since 
 Oblivion has been hailed as one of the best RPGs ever made. Now, this game has been on the market 
 for quite some time now and was one of the first RPGs on PS3 (come to think of it, I think it's 
 still the only RPG on PS3) . Of course I have had the game for awhile now too, but for some reason 
 I haven't yet given my own opinion of it. Don't worry, I wont go all omg, omg, omg, narf about 
 it, like most reviews I see. I like to think, im a little above it (or at least I should try to 
 be) . So lets head to the world of Cyrodiil again and see what it has to offer.
  
  Graphics:
  When you first enter the game, you might think that the graphics are meh, but once 
 you get out of the tutorial dungeon and into the open world, you will see the brilliance. Lush 
 greenery and vast landscapes as far as the eye can see. In favor of the game, you should remain 
 still, because once you start to move the graphical glitches and twitches will drop you back to 
 reality. So for Pete's sake, get back in town or back in the dungeon, where the graphics seems 
 stable. You can't really progress like this however, so you'll end up back into the big beautiful 
 twitchy world at some point. The graphical issues are not unbearable, but they do break the immersion 
 somewhat. 
  
  Sound:
  It seems that most developers leave the sound recordings to a bunch of chimpanzees, but Bethesda 
 seems to have done a little better. That is, leaving it to retarded mongrels. Or so I'd like to 
 say, but they seem to have done a pretty good job at it. Every NPC you meet has voice-over dialogue 
 and at first they seem believable enough. However, once you play further, you will notice that 
 the voices are pretty much spoken by a handful of people. In long terms, it can get a little annoying. 
 There are a few NPCs that I could listen for hours, but those are rare and usually end up dead 
 (like the emperor in the beginning, played by Patrick Steward) . In a long run, you'll also notice 
 that the dialogue is not very convincing. I have a hard time accepting a quest, when the NPC constantly 
 rolls his eyes over, like he is making the whole thing up. Also, there are some dialogue that just 
 makes me ROFL, but every game has a few of those. Apart from the dialogue, the sound effects seem 
 very good and believable. The sound of rain, the casting of spells, the slash of a sword all seem 
 good enough. Nothing to report there. Same thing with music, nothing grand. I don't think I even 
 notice it half of the time. Definitely not worth getting the OST (if such a thing even exists) .
 
  
  Storyline:
  Now, where do I begin. The main storyline perhaps. When you start the game and witness the assassination 
 of Patrick Steward, you are sent to a world rescuing mission to shut down the gates of Oblivion. 
 And that's pretty much all I know, since my experience kinda focused on the side missions rather 
 then the actual quest-line. The side missions that are found pretty much everywhere are so intriguing 
 and various that I literally forgot about the main quest-line altogether. The world can wait, as 
 I like to say, when im tomb raiding some ancient ruins or collecting flowers to some lazy bastard. 
 Something that struck my mind was the quest-line involving some alleged vampire slayer that you 
 expose to be just a common thief, who has killed his comrade in his greed and told everyone he 
 was a vampire. I wish that would work in reality, so I could go a kill all morons I dislike and 
 claim they were vampires.
  
  Gameplay:
  This is the big one. The determining factor. The gameplay is the most important aspect of any game. 
 I'd like to split this chapter in to several segments since Oblivion has a lot of good points and 
 bad points that affect gameplay.
  
  - The World
  Yes, the world is yours for the taking. And it is huge. A little too huge in my opinion. Im one 
 of those gamers that has to explore all nooks and grannies (pun intended) before im willing to 
 continue. Leaving an item behind or an area unexplored will make me lose my sleep. Oblivion literally 
 kicked me in the balls because of my playstyle and I was forced to take another approach. The huge 
 open world would have been better, had there been difference in landscapes or linear paths to different 
 areas to help you navigate. Instead, you can just run straight to where you want to go. There may 
 be bumps on the way, but nothing you can't get through. This sort of world may be like the real 
 world, but some things from reality shouldn't be taken to games. Like bicycles - or gravity.
  
  - Controls
  That leads me to the next aspect of gameplay. The movement. When you play the 
 game in first person, like it's supposed to be played, everything seems perfect. But take a small 
 break from your fantasy FPS and switch to the third person view (pressing the R3 button in PS3) . 
 After awhile you may notice how awkward this feels. The sideways movement, the jumping (or should 
 I say, floating) and especially horse riding. This all seems irrelevant, because all you need to 
 do is to press R3 and all problems go away. But it's like sweeping the dust under the carpet. It 
 may be out of sight, but it's still there. And besides, some prefer playing in third person and 
 even thought im probably in the minority, I like to see my character in his awesome gear as I play.
 
  
  - Character Development
  Being an RPG, Oblivion obviously has some RPG elements (duh) , like character development. Oblivion 
 however, does things a little bit differently than most RPGs and I think this originality deserves 
 a medal. Not a gold medal of course, but something. Tin perhaps. Basically when creating your character, 
 you select your major skills from a range of skills varying from spellschools to weapon handling 
 and sneaking. By leveling these skills, you character gains levels, woohoo. Apart from those major 
 skills, your character can learn all other skills as well. They level up slower, but even if you 
 didn't take something you needed as you major skill, no worries, since you can learn almost everything 
 anyway. This skill based leveling system has one flaw. You have to pick skills that you will actually 
 use to level up. I took Alchemy to my first character (thinking it would have been similar to that 
 in World of Warcraft) and practically never used it. So my character development was slow a bit, 
 but that luckily didn't have any effect on the gameplay, since the enemies level as you do. Making 
 the purpose of leveling completely useless, yay.
  
  - Combat
  I'll be frank (Castle) with you. Im not really into first person melee combat. Thats just something 
 I haven't gotten into. The only game so far that has had a decent first person melee combat has 
 been Condemned 2. And that worked, because it was a horror game (basically) . If a first person 
 game offers melee weapons, I usually ignore it and go for the big guns. That is why I play this 
 game mostly in third person. However, the combat in third person sucks even more, so im constantly 
 switching between first and third person perspective, trying to decide which is best. And for that 
 reason I dislike the combat in Oblivion. Maybe it works better in PC with a mouse, I dunno.
  
  - Immersion
  I have to agree with most players that this game is very immersive. After playing 
 this game for several hours, I notice myself taking shelter from the rain or walking commonly among 
 the NPC in the long roads. You can buy yourself a home from nearly any city and practically live 
 in that city for a long while, before you fed up to the store clerk asking you to go fu** yourself. 
 Usually however, when slouching the long roads, they are very much empty and it may again be realistic, 
 but for some reason I feel lonely walking through the woods with a decapitated troll head. It feels 
 like this game is a single player MMORPG. Like it should have other players as well, but for some 
 reason doesn't. The NPCs aren't really that much fun to converse either, as most require you to 
 be an veteran player in the World of Speechcraft. And let me tell you, keeping everyone happy feels 
 almost like work. So it's just like World of Warcraft.
  
  Whoa, this review bloated out a little. I'll keep the final words short. Most likely at this point, 
 im on the Kill on Sight list of the fans of this game for NOT giving it a full 10. But this is 
 my opinion of it and if you have something CONSTRUCTIVE to say about it, feel free to leave a PM 
 (that I will most likely ignore) . All in all, Oblivion in many ways feels like a fantasy GTA. Lots 
 of things to do in a completely open world. So if you like GTA4 and RPGs, this is the game for 
 you. It may drive some people insane, but at least you get ice cream in the funny farm. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leoleez
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 29, 2008 10:22 am PT
Review:  I do not have Oblivion but my friend does, we both tried it out not knowing what to expect... The 
 thing we saw was an amazing world, huge opportunities for replayability and a immense world full 
 of detail and in a very realistic perspective. The best thing I think about the game is: NO SOLID 
 CLASS SYSTEM!!! you can be a warrior who tote the awesome powers of fire magic, and annihilate 
 your enemies with it.
  -As my character I chose the lizard guys (argonites or something)
  -the enchanted golem thingy (srry dont know the name)
  -and my own class with it's own attributes.
 
  
  all i can say is: holy **** this game is the **** cause it is and as being an RPG/Tactics game 
 person, and my friend a FPS person... this was a hard combo to satisfy. They did such a good job, 
 I want my friend to think about getting Fallout 3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BigBadMatty
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 25, 2008 6:40 pm PT
Review:  Few games will ever be able to reach the same level as Oblivion and I'm sure many people will understand 
 why this game is so immersive. You are thrown into the world of Cyrodiil where you must fitght 
 the Prince of Destruction and vanquish the evil creatures of Oblivion to restore peace to your 
 homeland. The game is everlasting, if you don't feel like doing the main quest you don't have to 
 you can hang around and take skooma or do side quests for various factions (Dark Brotherhood, Thieves 
 Guild, Fighters Guild, Mages Guild...) by listening to NPCs talk you can learn of other quests 
 and explore the huge world that is Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. There are thousands of quests for 
 you to do as the character, completely customizable to look like you and your play type. You choose 
 from different races, birthsigns and symbols that boost your attributes and skills. There are hundreds 
 of different locations other than the main cities in which you can find large sums of gold and 
 rare weapons. This game isn't a walk in the park though as you face off with different creatures 
 depending on the level of your character each more deadly than the last. Get out there and conquer 
 the world of Cyrodiil.
  
  YOU MUST BUY THIS!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KMifsud
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 21, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best there is on PS3 I suggest to buy it right away. The graphics, soundtrack 
 and gameplay are incredible.
  
  The movement has been improved since the previous third-person/first-person games which results 
 some classical gameplay.
  
  This game will surely suit all buyers thanks to the complete roaming feature which allows you to 
 do completly what your mind tells you to.
  If you like making busniss then you can do just that, If you like fighting for money and glory there 
 is the Arena and for those who like stealing and assasinating there are the special and rewarding 
 thieves guild and the dark brotherhood/the dark hand.
  +much much more (including the special Knights of the Nine mod which is available innocently in 
 the special PS3 version)
  
  Graphics 10/10
  
  soundtrack 10/10
  
  gameplay 10/10
  
  For more info contact me on monster. h@hotmail. co. uk
  or on my PS3 user britishcrusader2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: linker15
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 17, 2008 7:58 am PT
Review:  Ok let me start of by saying, if you're reading this review because you dont know if u should buy 
 it or not, heres youre bottom line anwser OMGWTFBBQ THIS GAME IS TOO AWESOME TO MISS. *clears throat* 
 ok if you have not yet played this game youre either still living in a cave that came with internet 
 access or youre just moving out of the cave and want to relize how awesome modern day is.
  
  This game is incredable... it gives you sooo many options you can be a mage in heavy armor or 
 a warrior that can cast spells or an assassin that can go aroung with a huge twohander... the point 
 is BUY it its amazing and you will have the time of youre life
  
  its worth at least a rent DO NOT MISS THIS GAME i give oblivion for the PS3 a 10/10 or any system 
 for that matter... its just too god to miss good luck in the world of OBLIVION 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterPoof
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2008 8:41 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is the best rpg game ever created, period. Bethesda get a great job with the game. The 
 Graphics are beautiful with amazing landscapes and detailed faces. The sound effects are also great 
 and the voice acting is excellent. You start the game out as a prisoner in the imperial prison, 
 a high security prison. By chance, The emperor and his bodyguards need to go through your cell 
 to escape out of the city. When they do, the emperor stops and tells you that he has seen you in 
 his dreams. After that, you can escape the prison and out into the world of Oblivion. The world 
 of Oblivion is both huge and beautiful. There are many things to do in Oblivion, such as complete 
 quests or run errands for people in the game. There is a Main quest where you must close shut the 
 jaws of Oblivion and in addition there are many side quests that add hours more game play. Also, 
 with the PS3 version has the Knights of the nine expansion pack there even more things to do. The 
 items in the game are very Unique such as the Armour and weapons. The characters in Oblivion are 
 just fantastic, they all are very realistic and have expressive voices and faces. Overall, Oblivion 
 is just a great game that you absolutely must get. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chewjacka
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 13, 2008 7:48 am PT
Review:  I've only had Oblivion for a few days now, and I am totally addicted to it. When I tried the tutorial 
 level at my mates house, I thought it looked rubbish, but then I said "oh, what the heck" and bought 
 it. I'm so glad I bought it, and anyone saying that this isn't Game Of The Year material, then 
 they are wrong. My favourite games have never been the "LEVEL 1" kind of games, but the games where 
 you have to do something, but you can explore the game before bringing yourself round to doing 
 it. Nice ideas, the way you can choose the views between first and third player, and you can pickpocket 
 and break into houses. I think a little improvement for future games would be to have less guards 
 around, and maybe the guards don't always react to you attacking someone in your own homes.
  
  Overall, what a game! I'd recommend this to anyone, and bring on the future Elder Scrolls! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Androvinus
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 12, 2008 9:04 am PT
Review:  This game is guaranteed to be one the most played games on your console. this game has soo many 
 features , so much content and it can appeal to anyone who plays it. those people who say the game 
 is boring , it is because you make it boring, this is a game where you can go anywhere, do anything 
 ,kill anything right from the start of the game. the game starts you off in a dungeon where you 
 create a character by customizing race (dark elf, wood elf, imperial, redguard etc) facial feature 
 skin tone and so on. then you select a class (warrior, mage, thief, battlemage, etc) or you can customize 
 or create your own class by selecting skills that would be major for that class. then when you 
 are in that dungeon the story unfolds and when you escape, the world is yours.
  you can chose to continue the main quest or you can go do some exploring of your own. you can roam 
 the land exploring hundreds of ruins, caves , towns, settlements, forts. or you travel to the realm 
 of oblivion (much like hell) and fight off monsters who are trying to invade your world. you can 
 talk to people whom go about their daily lives, going for walks , eating , sleeping , working, 
 socializing. From these people you can gain side quests that greatly add to the experience. The 
 side quests in this game arnt just to go kill 20 lions or 1000 goblins like some rpgs. the sidequests 
 all have a deep story and they all require you to do something unique. Example, reclaim someones 
 home, turn a town against each other, expose a vampire (I said it) , steal a ring from the countess 
 of the city. murder the head of the city guard, investigate a haunting, find a girl who has gone 
 missing in a town with very strange folk . Fulfill a prophecy for the end of the world to drive 
 a town mad ;and the game gives you choices of good and evil to chose the outcome of these quests. 
 This game is so deep and unpredictable, you dont do quests for money (you earn money, but thats 
 not the reason you came) , you do the quests for the fun of it, for the mystery , for the deep back 
 story. the game even has books in houses and book stores that tell amazing brilliant stories that 
 make you want to read. THIS GAME MAKES YOU WANT TO READ. I could go on and on all day talking about 
 this game and talking about the hundreds of quests and the hundreds of hours you will spend doing 
 them and exploring hundreds of places in the beautifully rendered landscape, but i will let you 
 experience it all for your self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikemears
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 4:46 am PT
Review:  This game is like playing GTA 4 but set in a medieval society and atmosphere. An enormous island 
 to explore with several different cities and enhanced graphics.
  
  Features:
  -loads of different armour and clothing to equip to yourself.
  -several different races to choose 
 from for your character e. g. dark elf, High elf or Nord.
  -Lots of demons, beasts and other enemies to encounter whithin or out of the portals to Oblivion.
 
  -Tone of voice and speech from society varies depending on their race and sex.
  -Underground dungeons, mines, caves etc are ready to be explored.
  -There are 3 different guilds 
 to earn money from and become a member in the fighters guild, mages guildand theives guild.
  -weather conditions, timing, night and day changes at the same time.
  
  Graphics and Design:
 
  Graphics and design of trees, monsters, buildings such as fortresses, people and spells are enhanced 
 and amazingly realistic, especially when you draw out a weapon like a sword, you can notice the 
 effects and damage on the weapon if you attacked a boulder a few times. Then you'll notice by looking 
 at your sword; showing you a few scrapes and scratches on the flat surfaces of the weapon.
  
  Date I Got It:
  I actually bought this game back in January 2008, since then I never had 
 an acount for Gamespot, until now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobertguy
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 2, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is the best RPG on the market right now. The graphics are outstanding, the armor is cool 
 (especially dwarven) and enemies are cool. Bethesda did a great job, I like how you can just roam 
 around and do anything you wont to. I also like the fact that there are guilds for every single 
 playing style. Mage, thief, assassin and warriors guild. The arena is fun to play in to. There 
 must be over 200 items in game witch is also cool. The realm of oblivion is relay gloomy and darkish. 
 The story line fits right into the game to. The caves are also very cool. It makes you feel like 
 you are in a real cave. The interaction with NPC's is amazing. the zombies look real, the wolfs 
 and the imps are very detailed. all together this makes a relay good game
  This is the best game in the world (other than halo 3 and call of duty 4) !! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AKayy_47
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 10, 2008 11:41 am PT
Review:  Genre: RPG
  
  The Elder Scrolls series has taken a huge leap forward in Oblivion. Never before has there been 
 such a great console RPG thats so adaptable, epic and enjoyable. 
  
  Oblivion takes place in a huge medieval world called Tamriel. The emperor is now dead, and its 
 up to you to close the four gates to Oblivion that threaten to take over the kingdom and see the 
 new heir to his throne. 
  
  When you start the game, you can choose and customize your character. You have a wide variety of 
 races to choose from, such as Dark Elf, Orc, Khajit (tiger-like) , and Mage. You choose your main 
 skills and class, and after a tutorial level through a dungeon you emerge and begin to explore. 
 There is the main quest to follow in the game, which has a decent length itself, but you'll constantly 
 be given and completing many different side quests as you progress. What makes this special is 
 that you have a choice about what to complete, it really gives you the feel of total control of 
 your own adventure. There are new dungeons and villages around every corner here. You'll be running 
 errands, joining guilds, tailing suspects, assisting in battle and son on. There are many ways 
 to travel as well. You can ride a horse or walk to gain more experience, or fast travel to get 
 to places instantly. 
  The government is a big part of this fantasy world, with many guards watching you around the cities 
 and roads. If you commit a crime (steal, murder, attack, trespass) you become wanted by the guards. 
 If you meet up with them, they'll try to arrest you. You can resist arrest and run away, or you 
 can go to jail. There are still many options, even in the slammer. You can pick the cell lock and 
 sneak out or serve your time, but lose experience. 
  All of this gives the game dozens and dozens of gameplay hours for you to play through. 
  
 
  This game looks great. The environments and landscapes are beautiful and seem to continue on into 
 the horizon forever. All of the different characters look good, and the solid and wide variety 
 of voice acting tops the game off nicely. A fine soundtrack adds more epicness and feel. There are 
 thousands of characters with their own problems and lives to meet, making them all different in 
 their own way, as well as tons of areas and cities.
  
  The classic RPG gameplay is intact and better than ever. Although, you play the game in the default 
 first-person view, so you use a target to aim and attack with. Combat isn't turn based, you can 
 swing your sword, block, shoot arrows, and cast spells at any time you choose during a battle. 
 Instead of choosing a target and waiting around until the character delivers a hit, you can press 
 a button and the action happens right there. Its very satisfying. Your enemies, like wolves, goblins, 
 bandits, trolls, and demons all have solid AI and make battles even more fast and fun. 
  There are tons of weapons and magics to use, as well as items such as herbs, food, tools, and armor. 
 Then we come to leveling up and getting stronger. If you continually use a sword, your Blade skill 
 will increase. If you prefer magic or arrows, those skills will go up as well if you use them enough. 
 Skills can get quite specific, including acrobatics, sneak, hand to hand, restoration, stealing, 
 etc. When you're ready to level up, you must sleep in a bed. Unlike in other RPGs though, leveling 
 up isn't quite as important as other things such as making use of your skills. 
  
  Oblivion isn't without its drawbacks though. But these are mostly just long loading times and lag/frame-rate 
 issues. Also, some might complain that the world is too large with a sense of emptiness. I can 
 somewhat see what they mean, but you probably won't feel this way at all. 
  
  The PS3 version of Oblivion exceeds expectations and delivers an amazing and immersive role-playing 
 experience that'll keep you hooked till the end. 
  
  Pros:
  -Huge organic world to explore
  -Tons of missions and side quests provide hundreds of hours of 
 gameplay
  -Fast-paced and solid combat system, using key roleplaying elements like swords and magic
  -Good 
 amount of character customization
  -Great amount of interaction
  -Lots of characters with their own lives and voice acting
  -Great looking environments and production 
 values
  
  Cons:
  -Lots of lag and frame-rate issues
  -Long loading times, and takes up a lot of memory on your system
  -Healing takes kind of a long 
 time 
  -A sense of emptiness in the huge environments
  
  Gameplay: 9.2
  Graphics: 9.3
  Sound: 9.0
  Replay Value: 9.8
  Concept: 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  I have tried really hard to find my place in this game. I created the sickest looking argonian 
 possible, and spent a few hours leveling up. A lot of hours leveling up. I never really got the 
 hang of it, so I actually did some quest and missions. Those were a lot of fun, but they eventually 
 became really hard and confusing, to the point where finding a dragon skull of whatever the hell 
 it was just wasnt worth the time.
  
  Despite my horrible curse of impatience, i STILL found ways to have fun. 
  I would save a game 
 in the city, attack a guard, and just keep on fighting until i die. I dont know why, but endless 
 combat and bounties on me received for doing the simplest thing, like maybe hitting a sleeping 
 women with a sledgehammer is just hilarious. And those guards..... they are FAST to respond. As 
 soon as I try something wrong, BAM the door flies open and the law is against me. Unbelieveable.
 
  Another way i have fun...... i like making my dude half naked and running through the forests stabbing 
 horses with absolutely furious guards chasing me. I even found a glitch when I was being chased 
 by one..... i jumped over a rock, and obviously the guard couldnt, so his programming screwed up 
 and him and his horse were shot like 100 feet across the map into the city wall. I went over and 
 looked at them, they were half trapped in the wall, and STILL that damn guard was screaming and 
 yelling for me. (P. S. NEVER sneak up and stab a guard in the back. They dont like that one bit)
 
  Haha and I also remember this one hot elfish girl that i saw, so I went up and talked to her, 
 then she got annoyed and attacked me. So the guards kicked her ass and left her to die. I took 
 of all her clothes, then swinged at her body, ACCIDENTALLY hit a guard, therefore starting another 
 epic chase that led from horses to mountains to all kinds of stuff.
  And that persuasion game that you can play with people....... I have no clue what it is or how you 
 play it, but I rule at it and it is f-ing HILARIOUS. 
  
  This game is insane. I never really played the game, I just became and criminal and KICKED EVERYONES 
 ASS. This game is extrememly adaptable. If you think you cant have a hella lot of fun, THINK AGAIN 
 I couldnt get enough of this game. Do what I do, now I have one sword account, one magician, and 
 one criminal.......... I love this game, this is a must have for all ps3 owners. Even if it was 
 released almost a year ago. It never gets old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oblivionfan10
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 8:41 pm PT
Review:  This is by far the best RPG on the market right now. The immersive storyline and the many ways 
 you can approach a quest. It is simply a big acheivment in the RPG world.
  
  Let's start out by talking graphics. This game boasts top notch graphics. The reflections of the 
 water and the way each character looks. The land looks different in each area. The draw distance 
 is also really great. You can see the Imperial City from a high point in Cheydinhal. And it looks 
 amazing
  
  Gameplay: This game is really easy to pick up and easy to keep on playng. The world really brings 
 the player into a land that has never been seen before. You can choose you you want to be in the 
 game. The sinister assassin or the noble hero. Or play both for a while.... there are NO limits 
 to who you can be. There are 1000s of NPCs to interact with and each has unique dialogue. 
  
  Sound: This game has a good sound quality. The only gripe about the sound is that each of the 
 races has the same voice no matter what. The only unique voices are Martin Septim: Sean Bean and 
 Emperor Uriel Septim: Patrick Stewart. But other than that, your sword strikes metal, it will sound 
 like it hit metal. Even the hitting of bodies have a sound of their own.
  
  
  Replay Value: Of course there is replay value. This game has so many options in it that this game 
 can be played several times. A different race, different lifestyle, different attitude. This can 
 be played over and over and over again. 
  
  Verdict: This game is one of the most intriguiung and fun games to play in the RPG world. The only 
 gripe about the game would be the voices but that is a small detail that isn't too annoying. This 
 game can be played for hours. Even maybe playing this game in a few years stil!!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sifer
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 26, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  this game is very good and fun but it can get really hard in some parts it is cool how you can 
 make your own charaters and play as them i like this game very much i would recamend this game 
 to any body that likes action and adventer games this game is cool how you can make like any type 
 of chartarter you would like this game gets hard in some parts where you have to go and do the 
 story for all the people and do the missions but over all this game is fun and very cool i like 
 how you can buy the two differnet maps for it i onlyu got the single game for 30 dollars but still 
 very  
 so if u like my review go out and buy it a very fun game u can get all different kinds of swords 
 and bow and arrows its cool and  
 a fun game later  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jono465
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 19, 2008 11:35 am PT
Review:  So many games nowadays leave something to be desired, even after you've beaten it. I had seen the 
 reviews and ravings for Oblivion myself, and thought it to be a game worth checking out. I have 
 to admit I have had no prior experience with the series, and American RPGs as a whole were not 
 really my taste. However, enough of myself rambling. Onto the review!
  
  Sound: 8/10 While certainly not a weak point in the game, the sound in Oblivion doesn't always 
 feel up to par with the rest of the game's content. The music, I felt, was uninspired to say the 
 least. While the music never really sticks out as being poor, it never stands out as being good. 
 If the music wasn't there, you probably wouldn't really notice or care. The sound effects are much 
 better, however. The swooshing of a blade and the explosion of a spell are all believable and well-done, 
 adding authenticity to a fantasy setting. The only possibly negative thing about the sound effects 
 are that because Oblivion is such a long game for most people, you'll be hearing these sounds a 
 lot, making them somewhat redundant given enough time. The last aspect of the sound is the voice-acting, 
 which is really terrific. There's a huge amount of voice work in this game; every NPC you speak 
 to has something to say (even if it is unnervingly similar to another NPC) . The quantity of the 
 voice acting by no means detracts from the quality. While some lines are delivered less-than believably, 
 for the most part, the actors do their jobs admirably. Of particular note is Sean Bean (The Lord 
 of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring, Silent Hill) , who does the voice acting for Martin, and 
 the voice actor for the character of Haskill. 
  
  Graphics: 9/10 All right. These graphics don't scream photo realistic or anything, but they certainly 
 are awesome for a video game. You'll notice the sheer amount of customization when making your 
 character; this customization is made important in that you can notice the subtle details of your 
 character and all the NPCs faces and clothing, etc. Lighting is generally superb, such as in the 
 opening dungeon (literally) or looking at the sun set over a body of water. Shadows leave a lot 
 to be desired and seem out of place in a third generation game, though. They tend to be choppy 
 and don't always appear where they should. Another thing preventing a 10/10 rating is the sum of 
 the graphics as a whole. While excellent to stare at abstractly and in detail, objects tend to 
 pop in when you get close enough, and things such as shadows and movement in inanimate objects 
 are noticeable enough to lower the score to 9/10. 
  
  Story: 8/10 I won't lie. I may have been spoiled by JRPGs, because Oblivions story wasn't the most 
 memorable. I won't go into great detail, because it still has enough turns and twists to make it 
 worth hearing, but it won't stick in your mind as being awesome. The Shivering Isles expansion 
 packs story was better than the original, and had a somewhat surprising twist near the end. The 
 plot never feels cliche, and yet, it never manages to feel new, refreshing, or exhilarating. A 
 saving grace for the story score is the depth to the game world. If you play through the game and 
 never do much exploring (which is practically a sin in a sandbox game such as this!) then you'll 
 never get to read all the books or listen to travelers tales on the history of Cyrodiil, etc. I 
 was rather shocked myself when I first realized just how deep a game this was.
  
  Gameplay: 9/10 Gameplay is incredibly important to any game, and here is no exception. Luckily 
 (or not, depending on how you see it) for Oblivion, this game has some of the most inventive gameplay 
 I've seen. The unique first person view alone makes this game feel different than any other, and 
 you'll notice this from the start. If you choose to be a cliche warrior who only uses weapons, 
 this game can easily degrade into a dull hack-and-slash. However, spell casting and bows combined 
 with some swordplay make for a game that seemingly never grows old. There's SO much to do in this 
 game, it's incredible. Alchemy, fighting, roleplaying, horse back riding, exploring, and a variety 
 of other things will add hours to your experience in this game. If the game is too hard or easy, 
 you can change the difficulty mid fights to an incredibly easy game where things should die in 
 almost one hit, to stupidly hard where if you survive, you know you play a bit too much.
  Replayability: 4/10 Closely tied in with the game play because the game itself has no unlockables 
 for second play throughs, Oblivion's replayability isn't the best. This is largely due to the fact 
 that chances are you've already seen most of the content on your original character. If not, you'll 
 soon realize most quests follow a typical go to person, convince them to talk to you, go to dungeon 
 and fight your way through, go back to person and get reward pattern. However, playing a different 
 character archetype (ie. Mage, Knight, Bowman) may help this issue.
  
  Overall: 9/10 Though the actual average of the rankings I've given would be less than 9, once you 
 start playing Oblivion, the sum of its parts add up to something more than is to seem. You can 
 lose yourself in this virtual world (which you shouldn't ever do in any video game, mind you) because 
 it's just that immersion and beautiful, rarely growing old in your first play through. Everyone 
 will find something to do in this game, and if you have the slightest enjoyment of action / RPG 
 games, this is a game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: simondengrymme
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 11:26 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion
  
  This is an awesome game that includes lot of RPG fun. The things i like most is that the game has 
 almost everything and the land is quiet huge. The enemies are cool but sometimes quiet lame .The 
 voices are pretty good but quiet repedetive that makes non of the characters interesting enough. 
 The story line is also good though sometimes it can be quiet frustrating if you dont know what 
 to do. The free roam is quiet good but if you seen it all, done it all, then your done.. The weapon 
 arsenal is quiet good though there isnt really any (mighty weapons) of course this would ruin the 
 gameplay :/. You can also create your own character from race to face ;) This game could probably 
 be as good as WoW if there would have been an online mode.. You will probably play this for a long 
 time and its like you never really want to quit when the excitment begins :)
  
  Overall i would say this game is a masterpiece when you start thinking of what you are capable 
 of in this game and how the graphic looks and the Enviroment. Though non online wich makes 5- 
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Atheos-Arkhaios
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 17, 2008 11:09 am PT
Review:  Having spent a bit of time getting acclimated to the world of Oblivion, I have to say that I'm 
 honestly blown away. I've been a big fan of RPG's all my life, but I never really realized how 
 scripted they all are until I got into this game. I realized how constrained I was in the other 
 games I've played. However, this isn't a fault of the other wonderful RPGs I've experience, it's 
 simply an enhancement of my experience with Oblivion. The fact that you can choose to follow the 
 main quest or not is in itself a breath of fresh air. You can spend hours doing all sorts of side 
 quests that have nothing to do with the story, yet still retain enough individuality to keep you 
 coming back for more. 
  
  The visuals speak for themselves really, but still photographs can't show you how beautiful this 
 game is in motion. The lighting effects bring everything to life, whether it be the reflection 
 off a pond, or torches barely lighting your way through a dungeon. The same goes for the sound 
 effects and music included. All are top notch and lend a hand to make this game a true epic. Although 
 I absolutely love this game, it is of course not perfect. Sometimes the open nature of the game 
 can lead you to feel more disconnected from the story than you'd like, but this is of course up 
 to you how quickly you progress through the game. Loading times can be a bit annoying, but they 
 aren't terrible. Finally, I found the leveling system a bit odd and not in my favor. As you level 
 up the enemies get stronger proportional to your level, so the game doesn't get too easy. However, 
 if you don't have the "efficient leveling" strategy down then you may get overwhelmed later on 
 (from what I've heard) . This can fixed by sliding the difficulty slider down, but this seems like 
 a cheap way out of a funky leveling system. All told, you can go through the whole game at level 
 1 if you'd like, since the enemies will stay proportionately difficult.
  
  Overall, this is a great experience and well worth the price of admission. If you let it, it will 
 open up a whole new world that needs exploring. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pingu33
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 17, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  (No spoilers) Finally, a classic style RPG for a console... it's been awhile. Oblivion is a masterpiece, 
 with a great feel for it. Truly one of the best RPG's I've ever played, if not the best one. Although 
 there was a lot right about this game, there was a lot to be desired.
  
  Story: The story itself is strong, believable and plausible. I like the fact that there were no 
 Sailor Moon style Japanese characters, or monsters. The classic feel for the game was a refreshing 
 change full of medieval style cities, characters and landscape all seemlessly integrated throughout 
 the story/ This really made you feel like you were in the game. Although there were PLENTY of side 
 quests and characters, the main story itself was simple and easy enough to follow, and it was a 
 really good one at that. Dark, ominous and dreary with a Lord of the Rings type feel to it. My 
 biggest problem was that it was too short. It was very open ended and non linear, however I would 
 have preferred more substance in the main quest if it meant sacrificing some of the side stuff. 
 The actual main story stuff could be completed in merely a few hours. 8/10
  
  Graphics: In a word, outfreakinstanding!!! Exceptional attention was paid to detail from the straw 
 on the roofs of cottages to the ripples made in water when you walk through it. The world itself 
 was without a doubt the nicest I've ever seen in a game. The stupendous graphics made walking around 
 a pleasure in itself as even walking never got boring. My personal favourite is the bright red 
 moon, and the horror filled towers of oblivion. The creatures were easily the best I've ever seen, 
 likewise for the equipment and weapons for your character. 10/10
  
  Sound: It was nice not hearing rock music, or a snappy orchestra when you were in cities or out 
 in the field. The sound efffects where bang on, from shutting a door to lighting a torch. The fighting 
 sound effects were a sheer pleasure to experience, The NPC's would eve have their own conversations 
 with each other which just added to the enjoyment of the game. In terms of the musical score, it 
 was a nice unobtrusive orchestral score which didn; t take away from the game, nor did it add to 
 much to it. Although I rarely notice music in the game. 8/10
  
  Gameplay: This is where the game goes horribly wrong. The loading time was unbearable. Every time 
 a door is openned, a shop is enterred or a variety of other events (that happen very frequently) 
 a loading screen pops up forcing you to wait. This got to be so bad that at times I wouldn; t go 
 where I wanted to go because I wasn; t in the mood to wait through all of these screens. By the 
 end, it truly did affect the enjoyment of the game as simple things like going to your house made 
 it a chore. It didn; t stop here though, there were some other shortcommings with the actual character 
 movement as well. There are horses available for the character to ride, but because the horse was 
 so unresponsive and going in the wrong direction, I eventually gave up and never rode one. Another 
 fault was with swimming. There's a really great feature that allows your character to swim which 
 is awesome, however, swimming under water seemed to make my character lose all control and sense 
 of direction, there were numerous times where my character died as a result of this. As if this 
 wasn't enough, there are plenty glitches within the game preventing you from completing certain 
 quests. One horrible glitch would have ruined the game for me if not for a previous save (it still 
 cost me about 6 hours.) Another annoying quirk involving gameplay was that some dungeons were way 
 too difficult to figure out where to go, especially some of the plains of oblivion. At times it 
 got frustrating. In addition to all of this, there are certain spots in the game where the character 
 simnply gets stuck and can't move. Aside from all these shortcommings, movement was relatively 
 easy and the controls were very responsive. 5/10
  
  Extras: There are some things about this game which made it impossible to stop playing... that is 
 aside from the story and graphics. Owning your own house is a nice touch. The fact that you can 
 see your character in their weapons and armor was also a welcome feature. Many RPG's have an arena 
 in them, however this one was the best one. Side quests and a seemingly infinate ammount of new 
 cabes, fortresses and dungeons provide the player with countless options previously unavailable 
 on console RPG's. 9/10
  
  Overall, one of the most enjoyable games I've ever played. The graphics, story and feel of the 
 game more than make up for it's shortcommings. If you're into RPG's, this one is a must have.. plain 
 and simple. The only worry I have now is that the games I play after this will pale in comparrison. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Drumahboi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 5, 2008 6:42 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was a perfect follow up for The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind. I 
 mean it exactly as I said it, because this was a large step for Bethesda. They transferred from 
 the older generation to the new-gen platforms relatively very gracefully. Besides the sometimes 
 slow load times, and not so welcome crashes, it was a perfect transition between the two.
  
  I felt that the graphics totally added to the reality of the game. They produced outstanding 
 visuals to come along with the gameplay. It was a nice change from the very jagged-edged predecessor. 
 They really made my experience mesh into the surroundings. However, along with that, they had a 
 sort of "ragdoll" feature that whenever a creature would die, they would flop around like jelly. 
 This was kind of funny, but on a serious term, they could have done better with that.
  
  The sound and quality of the music was outstanding. I could really feel the mood of the game as 
 a Daedric Warrior charged me for the first time. (which kinda told me he wasn't on my side) This 
 brings up the last bad thing I have to say that I was disappointed with. The sounds that came about 
 when i swung at random objects (yes, i am easily amused) sounded the same. Everything was surprisingly 
 metallic.
  
  Other than all I mention above, this was an outstanding game that you must buy the next time you 
 see it. Great for RPG fans with time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coasterdude33
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2008 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The reason for that I gave it such a high score is because of how i experienced the game. This 
 game is not for everyone, that is for sure. For me though, i wouldn't have changed much. I personally 
 love the way that i can do whatever i want when i want to. While this may be a huge turnoff for 
 some players, I found the structure of this game to be great and extremely rewarding. So much so 
 that i am still playing the game over a year later with 175 hours logged. I loved how the game 
 is so adaptable to my play style. 
  
  Sure, there are flaws. The leveling system is a little wacky ( you could easily beat the main quest 
 and most of the rest of the game without leveling up once.) Plus, all the dialog appears to come 
 from like 5 people but at least some of the stories that are driven by these dialogs are very engaging. 
 Some of the quests are just plain exciting. I never thought that i would see an NPC summon some 
 demon rats to kill an annoying neighbor, but I did. The main quest is a pretty decent length and 
 is definitely a fairly engaging story. Plus most of the side quests and the people involved relate 
 themselves to the the crisis in the kingdom. There is enough story through the main and side quests 
 to keep you not only busy, but interested. 
  
  If you looking for a game to get lost in, this is probably one of the best. You can get as lost 
 as you want in it. If you want to read all the books, and talk to the people, then you can and 
 you will get a very immersive experience. The pure fun and atmosphere of this game is worth checking 
 out. There is enough game here to get every penny of your money's worth 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmr684
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 2, 2008 10:28 am PT
Review:  So as a newcomer to the Elder Scrolls series I came in not quite knowing what to expect. As far 
 as personal gaming taste, I tend to hover around both FPS's and RPG's. If you are a fan of either 
 and enjoy the customization of your character, you should feel right at home. 
  
  If you have read the review, then chances are you already know all the great features included 
 in this game and what makes it so great so Im not going to spend to much time on that. The game 
 is huge, possibilities are endless, the mini games and subtle nuances are also very addictive and 
 after completing each one you feel a great sense of accomplishment. 
  
  With all of that said, Im going to focus on my gripes with the game "although very few and petty"
 
  
  First off, although you have a ridiculous amount of options to customize the appearance of your 
 character, the effects are still rather subtle and the means in which you adjust the characteristics 
 can be rather clumsy. I spent almost 45min on my character until I was actually happy enough with 
 him. They could have taken a few pages from the books of EA with this one seeing its one of the 
 few things they really did right. 
  
  Second, although the environments are huge and the textures are great, the graphics aren't as groundbreaking 
 as one might be led to believe "even for a launch title". This is not to say that they aren't great, 
 but they do suffer from a few annoying traits. Most noticeable would be a few items popping into 
 screen and some jitters in performance these actually aren't the ones I have a gripe with. With 
 such a powerful system and huge game you would think they could have been a little more creative 
 with the cursor in the middle of the screen. It is a definite eye sore. 
  On top of that, when in 3rd person, the characters motions in conjunction with the environment 
 is pretty bad. It quite simply looks like your character is floating and gliding on top of the 
 ground while making walking motions. For a next gen game this is rather embarrassing. 
  Knowing where you are getting hit from is also a very important which is also missing, so taking 
 damage might leave you spinning around trying to find the source.
  And lastly the game could have had a much more realistic feel if when in 1st person mode and walking 
 around, they added motion animation to the camera, like you are actually traversing the terrain. 
 Instead you smoothly scroll through the game. If they were able to accomplish this all the way 
 back to the days of Doom, they should be able to do it in todays games. 
  
  Those are my gripes. Yes they are small and petty, but thats what happens when the game as a whole 
 is sooo damn good. If you don't go for the goty edition then it is at least worth picking up the 
 original for $25 that its going for today. with over 200+ hours of game play you would be crazy 
 not to pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playstation4lyf
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 1, 2008 11:17 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is the sequel to the popular Elder Scrolls 3 Morrowind. in the beginning, 
 you start out by creating your character according to race, and then you can completely customize 
 their face, skin, hair, etc. The many different races all have their differences, and make a big 
 difference depending on how u want to play, and what part of the game you want to see. for example, 
 if you want to play with an all around character, then you'll see what the game generally has to 
 offer. or if u want to lean towards magic or combat or stealth, then the various guilds have much 
 to offer you. Oblivion is so extensive, you don't even have to touch the main quest to get an amazing 
 experience out of oblivion. i've played with every different race, and have looked at every different 
 choice of specialization, and still haven't seen all of this game. there are so many different 
 quests, and so many different things for u to do. Oblivion is definitely a game you have to have 
 if you are a PS3 owner, and it deserves a perfect score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RazerOfHellVII
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 30, 2008 8:05 pm PT
Review:  Lol well yea this game is GREATTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTT if you love RPG's. And the reason is.... you 
 can choose the outcomes of your CREATED character, adn also the cool thing is you can either be 
 good...... or evil!!! Lol i know i sound a little weird here, but im just speaking the truth. Ask 
 anyone whose ever played this game... i can say that its even better than the nerds who play Wow... World 
 Of Warcraft... No offense to anyone who plays it, but why don't you play something that has a little 
 bit more to choose from, but Oblivion doesn't have online sooo i guess you can say World Of Warcraft 
 is a weeee bit better than Oblivion. Ive only played it on the PS3, but supposdly it's xbox360's 
 version of oblivion is better because of all the add ons for the game, but i haven't seen any, 
 so if you see some let me know. But anyways this game is great for people who like to have a numerous 
 amount of speels, or alot of weapons, and side quests, heck you even get to have your own house, 
 in any and if wanted EVERY city. Well bottem line if you love rps's then Oblivion is certainly 
 the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GeoffZak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 14, 2008 7:28 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls Oblivion is truly amazing, there's so much to do. I've had it for about a year now, 
 I've beaten the main story, but there's still so much to do. With it's huge world you'll constantly 
 run into new places and new quests when exploring.
  
  What I love about this game is that you don't have to follow the story if you don't want to. You 
 can go off by yourself and do what you want. Join the fighters or mages guild. Become a thief and 
 join the thieve's guild, or an assassin and join the dark brotherhood. Or become a fighter in the 
 arena. Or you can just be a freelancer and roam the country looking for quests to do. The possibilities 
 are endless, there's so much more to do other than what I just mentioned.
  
  In Oblivion, people don't walk around aimlessly like they do in other games, they all have a purpose 
 in the game and you can talk to any of them. They all have their own name and personality and their 
 respect towards you will go up or down depending on what you say to them, or do. The building you 
 see in town aren't just there as a textured block. Another thing is that all building must have 
 an entrance somewhere, if it's locked, you can try picking the lock. But unlike other games, building 
 serve a purpose other than being an obstacle and you can go in all of them.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a huge game with endless possibilities, you can play it for hours without 
 getting bored.
  
  (I'm not sure how much time I've spent playing the game though) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablich
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  Ok, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an awesome game in every sense.
  The action in this game is off the roof, seriously you can slash and kill whoever you want and 
 whenever you want, combat is really great, it feels perfect but it still has some little flaws 
 that you'll overcome quickly.
  
  Graphically this game gets a 10 at least for me, it's incredible how amazing the graphics look 
 being it's such a huge game with a huge world and more than 150 hours of gameplay, I finished it 
 with 290 hours LOL! what a waste of my life that was.
  
  Voice acting is ok, you'll hear the same voices over and over again for every character but that's 
 expected from such a big game.
  
  The main quest is really great, it grabs you and suprises you all the time, but what the game really 
 is brilliant in are the sidequests, there's soooo many of them and they're all entertaining and 
 the majority of the rewards you get from doing them are really good.
  
  Well I'll end my review by saying that this is a game that shouldn't be missed wether you like 
 RPG's or not, like me I wasn't a fan of the genre but this game proved to me that RPG is a really 
 great genre with a lot of future.
  
  I hope my review helps you 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g4dgetpr0n
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 24, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantasy role-playing adventure game and one of the biggest open-ended/sandbox themes 
 of game-play ever conceived where you play the protagonist.
  
  Oblivion begins with very impressive character customization. Male or female you can customize 
 your facial features to just about any look imaginable. The race you can choose plays a huge role 
 in what skills you plan on focusing on later on in the game and can be easily passed up by a gamer 
 new to the series. Choosing a race is one of the most difficult parts of starting out Oblivions, 
 as you the figure you most appeal to and the skills that you will use the most throughout the game. 
 The races consist of Argonian, Breton, Dark Elf, High Elf, Imperial, Khajiit, Nord, Orc, Redguard, 
 and Wood Elf. All these races look very different along with different skills and advantages players 
 start with.
  
  Plot: 
  You start out as a prisoner in the Imperial City Prison in the Province of Cyrodiil. As you follow 
 the current emperor, Emperor Uriel Septim VII, and his guards through the city sewers, he is murdered. 
 You are the chosen one who's destiny is to restore peace to Tamriel. Uriel Septim grants the protagonist 
 the Amulet of Kings. This is a special amulet that can only be worn by members of the Septim bloodline. 
 After escaping the sewers, the protagonist begins his great journey. He is to deliver the amulet 
 to the last member of the Septim family. As the game progresses, the lack of an Emperor in Cryodiil 
 has allowed Daedric forms to reappear from Oblivion and begin to assault the realm. The only way 
 to stop the Daedric onslaught is to reclaim the throne with a member of the Septim bloodline and 
 re-light the Dragonfires in the Imperial City. The protagonist starts in search of Martin Septim, 
 the last member of the bloodline, in Kvatch. Upon arrival, the Daedra have already held siege on 
 the city and burned it. Martin is rescued and travels with you to the Cloud Ruler Temple. This 
 temple is the stronghold of the Blades, the secret guards of the Septim's. But before he arrives 
 at the Blades, the amulet of kings had been stolen by the Mythic Dawn Cult, who assassinated the 
 Emperor. When Martin Septim is in safety at Cloud Ruler Temple, he journeys to find the Amulet 
 of Kings stolen by the Mythic Dawn. After infiltrating the headquarters of the Mythic Dawn, the 
 protagonist stumbles upon the Shrine of Mehrunes Dagon, the Daedric Prince who runs the Mythic 
 Dawn and the Mythic Dawn Cult ruler. He escapes by using a book known as the Mysterium Xarxes series. 
 These books hold a code and can be used to find the Amulet of Kings. This is the part of the plot 
 where the protagonist must "collect the pieces" to solve the puzzle of opening the gate of Camoran's 
 paradise. They are "The blood of a divine", the blood of a Daedra Lord, and a Great Welkynd Stone. 
 Once the protagonist collects these items, Martin Septim says he needs one more item, a Great Sigil 
 Stone. In order to recover one of these stones, a gate to Oblivion must be opened, much like the 
 one that devastated Kvatch. A plan is devised to open such a gate, and the protagonist must venture 
 into the gate and obtain the Great Sigil Stone. Once the portal to paradise is opened, the protagonist 
 ventures through and must confront Camoran himself and slay him. Camoran is wearing the Amulet 
 of Kings and it must be taken from him after his death. When the amulet is removed, the Paradise 
 dissolves and the protagonist must return the Amulet to Martin. Martin and the blades intend to 
 re-light the Draonfires in the Imperial City but notice that the Daedra have run one last final 
 and desperate attempt to overrun the Imperial CIty itself. The protagonist, Martin, and the Blades 
 must fight through the Timple of the One in the Temple District to leading to the center of the 
 city. They find that a 200-ft tall beast is destroying the city from the inside out, and it is 
 Mehrunes Dagon himself. Here, Martin runes into the center temple of the city where the Dragonfires 
 lay. He shatters the Amulet of Kings and merges with the spirit of Akatosh, the Dragon-God of Time, 
 becoming his avatar. He defeats Mehrunes Dagon in the last confrontation, and he turns to stone. 
 Peace returns to Tamriel as all Oblivion gates are shut forever and the Mythic Dawn are dissolved. 
 The throne of the Empire still remains empty. Martin describes optimistically, in a final monologue 
 that the future of Tamriel is now in the fate of the protagonist's hands. Lord Chancellor Ocato 
 of the Elder Council crowns the protagonist as the Champion of Cyrodiil.
  
  Side Quests:
  Besides the satisfying main plot of this brilliant game, the player can find himself distracted 
 from the main quest for many hours in side-quests. These small quests offer, fame and great treasures 
 that can help you along.
  
  Environment:
  This part of the game is the most awe-inspiring portion. Players can find themselves on a cliff 
 or on a mountain during a mid-day pillage of a small camp and have a jaw-dropping reaction to the 
 view looking down. According the an article in Microsofts press release, "Oblivion's game world 
 is approximately 16 square miles in size, with everything to absolute scale. 
  The NPC interaction in this game is remarkable. Although they may be comical in their lack to respond 
 to eachother's questions, NPC's can have full conversations discussing anything from where to buy 
 things, where to sleep, recent news/rumors, and other people in the game. You too can have a conversation 
 such as this with any NPC in this game. Oblivion's landscape is so immense that they broke a world 
 record with the number of objects in their environment. While traveling through the 16 square mile 
 area, you will stumble upon 35,544 shrubs, 67,730 plants and mushrooms, 94,013 trees and logs, 
 and 395,696 rocks!!! Happy roaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SlayerX980
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 19, 2008 8:34 pm PT
Review:  The sequel to 2002's Morrowind is such a remarkable accomplishment, not even because of its vast 
 plains, seemingly endless amount of quests, and polished mechanics, but because it's equally accessible 
 to both hardcore and casual gamers. You don't have to devote your life to Oblivion to truly enjoy 
 it, and for those who don't want to pump in the hours, the main storyline can be completed in relatively 
 few hours. However, once you've created your character and exited the sewers, you likely won't 
 touch the main quest for quite some time.
  
  The story begins with your character, for reasons unknown, waking up behind bars. Soon after, you're 
 greeted by the Emperor himself (voiced by Patrick Stewart of Star Trek fame) who warns you of his 
 dire situation and uses a secret passage within your cell as an escape route. Eventually the Emperor 
 is ambushed by a group of marauders, leaving it up to you to restore the rightful ruler to the 
 throne and once again bring peace to Cyrodiil.
  
  Before you can even think of exploring Cyrodiil, you've got to create your character. Oblivion's 
 character creation system goes way beyond simply choosing a pre-made skin and class, as you can 
 tweak just about every aesthetic feature of your character model. You'll also have to choose your 
 race, with each of the 10 having its own strengths and weaknesses, and depending on how you plan 
 to play the game, one class might be better suited for you than the others. If you're going to 
 hack and slash your way through Cyrodiil, you might want to consider being a Redguard. On the other 
 hand, if you're a magic lover, the High Elf class might be just right.
  
  So, you've picked your race, spent the better portion of the day tweaking the look of your character, 
 now what? It's time to pick a class. In an interesting twist, the game actually recommends a class 
 for you based on the way you played the opening prologue, though oddly enough, the King's guard 
 recommended that I choose a magic class, despite the fact that I hadn't used a single ounce of 
 Magicka.
  
  Class selection is the single most important aspect of your character's creation as it not only 
 determines how the game is played, but how easy it is to level up. Like Morrowind, players have 
 to choose a set number of major skills and a set number of minor skills. Each skill increases in 
 power the more you use it, and while it's important to increase your minor skills, it's the major 
 skills that level up your character. You have a total of seven major skills to choose from, whether 
 it be Restoration (a definite must no matter what class) , Blade (equally important) or Mercantile 
 (not so vital) . For every ten points gained, spread across your seven major skills, your character 
 will level up. As you continue to use these skills, they'll level up as well, allowing you to cast 
 more powerful spells, strike more powerful blows and so forth. However, unlike Morrowind, when 
 your character levels up so do your enemies, with the exception of a few lower level creatures.
 
  
  Initially, when travelling through Cyrodiil's landscape, you'll be attacked by the occasional rat 
 or wolf, but as your level increases, more difficult enemies begin to appear. By the time you're 
 at level 20 you'll be fighting Ogres, Trolls, Spriggans, Will-O-The-Wisps and plenty of powerful 
 Necromancers. While I'm a classic RPG purist, and would usually love to be able to level up my 
 character to be able to kick some serious Daedric ass with a single blow from my Umbra sword, having 
 enemies level up with you actually makes a whole lot of sense. In Morrowind, if you ventured to 
 certain areas of the map too early on in your journey, you'd face some of the game's toughest denizens. 
 In Oblivion, you're encouraged to explore without having to fear the dreaded 'reload previous save' 
 screen over and over again after groups of Frost Atronachs, Dremora Lords, and Spider Daedra's 
 decide to ambush your level 3 character. The system works well, but it can also be a pain in the 
 royal behind for players who like to level up quite a bit before embarking on the main quest.
 
  
  I'll give you an example. Say you level up your character to 12 before entering the first Oblivion 
 gate at Kvatch. You decide to give that quest a shot, but as soon as you enter the gate you're 
 greeted by a group of the horribly annoying Clannfear (they seem to knock you back whether you 
 have 100 points of Agility or not) , followed by Flame Atronachs galore. If you haven't evenly levelled 
 up your character, especially if you've chosen a race or class with a natural affinity to magic, 
 you could be in for a serious walloping. In fact, whether you want to be strictly a fighter or 
 deal specifically in magic, it becomes apparent early on that no matter what class you are, your 
 character stats need to be somewhat evenly distributed otherwise the game can become painstakingly 
 hard. Thankfully Bethesda was kind enough to include a difficulty slider, so if you find yourself 
 in a jam, you can adjust the slider accordingly. Or, if you're still stuck, you could always move 
 on to the hundreds of other quests.
  
  The game map is enormous, roughly three times larger than that in Morrowind, and is home to dozens 
 of caves, landmarks, dungeons, cities, thousands of NPCs to interact with and four guilds to join 
 (six if you count the Blades and Arena) . For anyone who's played Morrowind, the game actually feels 
 a bit smaller in scale, partly due to your character's speed (your character moved like a snail 
 in Morrowind) , and the illusion that cities are closer than they seem thanks to the game's incredible 
 draw distance.
  
  In the cities you'll find the Mages Guild and Fighters Guild, while the Dark Brotherhood Guild 
 and Thieves Guild are unlocked via other means. The guilds each have their own story, completely 
 separate from the main quest and offer a variety of quests, ranging from fetching items to solving 
 full-fledged conspiracies. The PS3 game includes the Knights of the Nine expansion from the off, 
 adding even more hours of game play to an already massive game.
  
  Unlike the guild quests, side quests are triggered by speaking to NPCs in and around each city. 
 Once you've accepted the quest, it'll be added to your journal and updated as you make progress. 
 To make things a little easier for the casual player, Bethesda has completely remodelled the map 
 system, which now features a compass and markers. When a quest has been accepted, a red marker 
 appears on the map showing you exactly where to go. It even shows you the room in which the character 
 or item is located. Elder Scrolls vets might be a little turned off by this system but I don't 
 even want to imagine how long the game would take to complete without it. The lack of any real 
 direction was one of my biggest gripes with Morrowind, resulting in simple quests taking hours, 
 so the improvement in this area is much appreciated.
  
  Similarly, the way in which characters travel has been drastically altered. Whereas in Morrowind, 
 you could fast travel between each town, in Oblivion, you can fast travel to multiple locations 
 in each city, as well as any caves, landmarks, and shrines you've found along the way. It eliminates 
 hours of on-foot travel and makes the game more appealing to a general audience, and frankly I 
 don't see how you could play the game any other way - not that random gallivanting around the environment 
 isn't fun.
  
  Ultimately, the variety of these quests is what will keep you coming back for more. Even quests 
 that involve fetching an item in a nearby cave usually have multiple layers, while other quests 
 are so outrageous and inventive that you literally can't put your controller down until they're 
 completed. Case in point is the excellent quest that has you travel inside a painting, complete 
 with brush-stroked skies, trees and painted trolls to clash swords with. It's a perfect example 
 of how a 'find this missing person' quest can evolve into so much more. Another, equally interesting 
 quest has you delve into the mind of a mage and undergo a series of trials constructed by his subconscious. 
 When's the last time you've seen something like that in an RPG?
  
  Equally impressive are the number of items and spells you can acquire in the game. I'm not sure 
 what the exact numbers are but there must be well over a 1000 items that can be collected, equipped, 
 and stolen. Similarly, there are a seemingly endless amount of spells that can be cast, provided 
 you have the required amount of magicka and have reached the appropriate skill level.
  
  From a technical standpoint, Oblivion doesn't disappoint. Bethesda has done a remarkable job at 
 bringing Cyrodiil to life, and not just visually either. The Radiant A. I. delivers on all fronts, 
 as NPCs go about their daily activities - eating, sleeping, hunting, training and generally living 
 their lives the way people do. But every now and then the AI goes beyond its menial tasks and does 
 something extraordinary. I've seen NPCs fight over kills; I've seen rival goblin clans fight one 
 another to the death; I've seen the population of an entire city come to the aid of a downed comrade; 
 I've seen NPCs steal items I accidentally dropped and then sell them to the nearest merchant. Occasionally 
 they'll do something that is a little odd, but on the whole no other game features AI as impressively 
 lifelike.
  
  Cyrodiil is a massive province, filled with trees, grass that sways back and forth as you wade 
 through it, towering stone structures, and beautiful sunrises - make a trip over to Dive Rock at 
 around six in the morning and you'll see what I mean (watch out for the giant troll nearby though) . 
 Character models are well designed, although often quite ugly, and the lighting has also been well 
 implemented. On the PS3 distant hills and the like look a little more attractive than in the 360 
 game and the load times have also been notably reduced. It's not enough to drastically alter the 
 game, but it's good that Bethesda used the extra development time to improve the PS3 game.
  
  From an audio perspective, Oblivion succeeds, for the most part, with solid voice acting and 
 an impressively epic score, but also fails miserably at times, with NPCs engaging in some horribly 
 dry conversations. Furthermore, while the voice talent is top-notch, I swear there are only three 
 or four voice actors in the entire game. I ran into a group of NPCs and after speaking to all of 
 them, I realized they all had the same voice - a little strange if you ask me.
  
  I was disappointed like everyone else when Oblivion didn't make its release alongside the PS3, 
 but it was well worth the wait. Let's get one thing straight though: Oblivion will consume you. 
 It'll consume your life, your performance at work will suffer and you might not see friends in 
 weeks. With hundreds of hours of gameplay, and an unprecedented amount of quests to be completed, 
 I couldn't possibly recommend Oblivion enough. Great job Bethesda. Sorry social life.
  
  
  Gameplay: 10
  Graphics: 9
  Sound: 9
  Overall: 9
  
  
  The good:
  
  - Huge land 
 full of quests.
  - Stunning visuals.
  - Hundreds of hours of gameplay.
  
  
  The bad:
  
  - It's been on other systems for a while now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  I honestly do not understand all the hype for this game. Maybe its just me but i found it to be 
 somewhat boring. Sure graphics are amazing. I just felt like the story line was not very interesting. 
 This could be because I was expecting more when I got it because of the good reviews. Or it might 
 not be my kind of game. Combat seemed pretty tacky. I did enjoy the dialogue somewhat. It just 
 seemed like they gave more attention to graphics and scenery and did not focus on gameplay or story-line.
 
  This is a great game if you like to wander around and not stick to a specific mission or task. 
 I am guessing that this game is just not for me. For those of you who are FPS or action gamers, 
 I do not think you would find this game enjoyable. I would absolutely advise you to rent it and 
 avoid buying it. For all you others who enjoy this game, more power to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Funkelo
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 13, 2008 9:29 am PT
Review:  This game is by all means perfect. I played a lot of RPG's because i like that kind of games so 
 I know what I'm talking about. This game has all that you're looking for a RPG: wonderful story, 
 great gameplay, interesting characters, excellent use of magic powers and weapons and most important: 
 it's not short!!!! It can be shorter if you don't pay attention of side quests, but the side quests 
 are so interesting and very helpful if you want to upgrade your levels.
  The gameplay it's in first person, You arsenal weapon consists in swords, hammers, axes, crossbows. 
 It's so real the use of weapons that each time that you use it to kill your enemies they will begin 
 to decrease their powers so you will have to restore it with some special tools that you can find.
 
  The use of magics are great also. You have a lot of variety: conjuration, restoration, destruction, 
 alteration... and all of this you can upgrade depending of your current use of them.
  The enviroments are awesome. The world is huge and the cities looks perfect. It really feels like 
 you are in the medieval age. The dungeons and caves are great too. They look creepy and the music 
 is good as well.
  Please do you a favor and by this game. You will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is my first Elder Scrolls adventure, so I wasn't really sure what to expect. Having come 
 off one enormous RPG some months ago (Final Fantasy XII) , I wondered what's in store for me with 
 Oblivion. As soon as I started the game, and before I even got to the adventure, I realized what 
 the fuss was all about. The character creation process is absolutely astounding; it is without 
 a doubt the deepest process a videogame has ever seen. You can customize virtually every detail 
 of your character's face, which means that no two creations will look a like. I spent over an hour 
 just tweaking my character, I was absolutely floored by the depth. On top of that, you can be any 
 race you wish, so you're not limited to just human characters, pick a reptilian, elvan, ogre/orc, 
 and so forth. 
  In the end, Oblivion is one of those games that lives up to every bit of its hype. In case you 
 haven't played Oblivion yet, I highly recommend that you do. Between the Xbox 360 and the PS3, 
 the PS3 version is the superior one. While it doesn't feature some of the downloadable content 
 that's already available for the X360 version, Bethesda has assured us that it'll be coming shortly. 
 The PS3 version does feature additional content, such as the Knights of the Nine faction and more. 
 On top of that, visually, the PS3 port is the clear victor. In any case, Oblivion is one of those 
 RPGs games that you'll likely play for months and months, without end. The sheer scope is so immense, 
 that it feels as if the game has no end. Furthermore, the sense of freedom is arguably the best 
 an RPG game has ever seen. But most importantly, Oblivion's learning curve is what you make of 
 it. Meaning, it can be complicated or easily accessible - the choice is yours. Do not pass up Oblivion 
 if you're an avid RPG fan, you'd be a fool if you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExireHG
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 6:14 pm PT
Review:  With RPG fans, generally our most memorable, often first experiences with an RPG, is one which 
 originated to the east in Japan. More often than not, it's a Final Fantasy. That said, Japanese 
 RPG's are very different, and created differently, for a different audience than RPG's created 
 in Europe or the United States. That said, most RPG fans will appreciate the Japanese RPG's more, 
 since it is what they are used to. The RPG's like Oblivion, are much different. There are no cutesy 
 animals, themed kind of stereotypical characters, or english voice actors where you think you heard 
 them in a recent dubbed anime you just watched. Since with hardcore RPG fans, they are accustomed 
 to the eastern style much more, so RPG's like Elder Scrolls, may not be for you. 
  
  Now onto the actual game. You start off as a lowly prisoner, kept in a little dark, dank, wet cell, 
 all alone. But suddenly soldiers and the King of the country, Tamriel come through your cell! A 
 shocker definitely. Needless to say, you are put on a little tutorial of how things work as you 
 help to escort the King to safety. In any case, when all is said and done, you exit the sewer into 
 the fresh outdoors and are witness to the beautiful graphics Oblivion offers, in this case, on 
 the PS3. 
  
  When creating a new game, you start right off the bat creating your character. This can go into 
 extreme detail. First it is simple with name, gender and race. There are several different races, 
 a couple of them being variations of the same race. For example, with humans you can be an Imperial 
 or a Redguard, each race having special talents. Such as, a Redguard is a natural warrior, having 
 extra stats in certain skills, such as with swords or heavy armor. This is different from an elf 
 variation, which may be more accustomed to restoration magic or using a bow. Besides humans and 
 elves, there are also a lizard like race and orcs. After you choose those basics, it comes to messing 
 with the face of your character. This is where the immense detail comes into play. You can choose 
 how pale or tan your character's skin is, the length of their neck, how far apart their eyes are, 
 how wide the bridge of their nose should be, how pudgy or gaunt their face should look... it goes 
 on quite a bit. Needless to say, its practically impossible to make a duplicate face unless you 
 intend to. 
  
  The tutorial itself is done quite well. There isn't a man in a text box telling you how things 
 work, your prompted with things and are immediately engaged into the world around you. One of the 
 things this game does so well, is show you just how immense everything is. This is a rather general 
 statement, but everything in the world of Tamriel is big. You have an enormous plethora of weapons 
 you can choose, though the types are restricted. You have your axes, maces, swords, daggers, bows, 
 staff's and wands. Well, if you want to be a badass monk you can always just fight with your fists 
 too. 
  
  You also must choose what kind of armor you prefer, light or heavy. What that means goes without 
 saying, if you prefer to be quick on your feet, go for light. If you want to be the burly tank 
 warrior, put on that heavy armor. Your equipment choices are gauged by the decisions you make when 
 you first start your new game, having to choose what you want to be. There are the usual classes, 
 but it isn't too hard to be a jack of all trades either. Its entirely up to you what kind of a 
 character you want to make. However, the game does have you think smart. If you want to be a thief, 
 you can't very well sneak up behind a bad guy in clanking heavy armor. 
  
  With your character, it goes beyond just choosing your class and how to equip yourself. There are 
 a very sizable amount of skills given to you. I can go on, explaining how it all works, but that 
 can be saved for a guide or instruction manual. Needless to say, there are skills from your armor 
 type, choice of weapons, magic, and even a strange 'sneak' skill, which allows you to go into sneak 
 mode, sneaking up behind the enemy. If undetected, when you strike, you do extra damage, being 
 able to kill your enemy before they even see you, very ninja. 
  
  The skills level up the more you use them, so they get more powerful. Such as, with leveling up 
 heavy armor, it will encumber you less, so you can move faster. If your able to achieve a master 
 rank, its like your wearing light armor, except with a massive armor boost, very nice. This also 
 pertains to leveling up your character. There really is no such thing as experience in this game, 
 instead your skills level up the more you use them. Which means you level up when enough of your 
 skills have leveled. In order for your level to officially increase, you have to find somewhere 
 to sleep. Once you do, you achieve a new level and your stats increase. 
  
  This is where the game's difficulty level comes into play. To those Final Fantasy fans, this is 
 similar to Final Fantasy VIII. The enemies will level up with you. So more or less, the difficulty 
 with average enemies will remain the same. However, you are refrained from leveling up too fast, 
 since the stronger kind of enemies can defeat you more easily if you don't level up smart. Again, 
 best to look into a guide if your concerned. Basically, its a bad idea to get a level up by only 
 leveling up your sword skill. Your attack will be quite decent yes, but you'll be slaughtered thanks 
 to your poor armor skill. 
  
  The massiveness of the game is made clear quite early on. After awhile it will seem your in an 
 MMORPG instead of just playing a normal RPG. There are a lot of quests you can take up, which can 
 range in difficulty and what they have you do. It can be from running an errand, or going into 
 a cave to kill do some vampire killing. And yes, there are vampires. And if your bitten, you can 
 become one, brilliant, eh? 
  
  The fact is, you can play the game for hours and hours, never even touching the main story quests. 
 There are several main towns and in order to get there for the first time, you'll have to travel 
 there manually before using a fast travel feature. You'll notice when you do this, that many different 
 icons show up on your map. These can range from banit campsites, to forts, caves, mines and even 
 your occasional manor or castle. Within just about all of these places are fierce enemies. There 
 are literally hundreds of places for you to explore. Each cave or fort is translated as a dungeon, 
 though most of them are pretty small. In most of them however, there is a creepiness factor which 
 if you scare easily, can easily freak you out. 
  
  There also is a morality thing which is played in this game. Basically, you can choose to do whatever 
 you want. If you want to just want to dungeon crawl for no reason other than to make money, go 
 right ahead. You can do quests for people, or you can pickpocket from them. Hell, if you feel so 
 inclined, go on a murder spree and kill an entire village. Doing such things can increase your 
 fame or infamy. Its quite simple, do good things, increase your fame, do bad things like steal 
 or kill, increase your infamy. But stealing or killing someone has its consequences. There is a 
 constant town guard and they are VERY watchful. Even if they aren't around, if you steal something 
 and someone yells, a guard will come after you in a matter of seconds. You can't hide. This is 
 where you are given an option. You can go to jail, pay for your crime, give the money back as compensation 
 (yes you can buy your way out of murder if you have enough) , or fight and kill guards. 
  
  Fighting the guards is probably the worst choice you can make. They are heavily armored, very skilled, 
 and deadly. Not to mention, killing them increases the bounty on your head, everyone else is out 
 to get you, and they can bring friends. Going to jail is plausible but still not recommended since 
 you can lose skill levels by staying in jail. Giving up your money is the best, but the best of 
 it all is to just not do it. Or do it carefully so you don't get caught. 
  
  Even still, there is more to the game then dungeon crawling and killing... though not TOO much beyond 
 that. There are certain guilds you can join and take on guild quests. There are still several you 
 can join. There is the Thieves Guild, which goes without saying, the Fighter's Guild which basically 
 means your a hired mercenary. You can also fight in the Arena to gain money and fame, or the Dark 
 Brotherhood, where your an assassin who skulks and kills in the shadow of the night. Not to mention 
 their a cult. With completing the quests you are given in these guilds, you can increase in rank 
 for all you who need to have your ego stroked. 
  
  The gameplay is quite simple, but it can change based on what type of a character you play. If 
 your a sword wielding warrior, its a fast paced hack and slash. If your a mage, then its kind of 
 like an FPS except colorful orbs shoot out of your hands. Either way it is quite fast paced and 
 exciting. If your taken by surprise, especially by a vampire or zombie, it can be down right frightening. 
 In lamens terms, its an action RPG in the 1st person view. You don't see your character fighting, 
 so its like you fighting. 
  
  The PS3 should also be noted for its visuals, though the game itself should be lauded for its beauty 
 since it has gotten great marks on the 360 and PC for its graphics. You will find yourself running 
 around outside just for the heck of it, so you can find that wonderful view. The day goes by in 
 game time as well, generally one minute per second, so one day lasts 24 minutes. After playing 
 the game and exploring for awhile, you'll eventually find a part of the world and a portion of 
 the day you like the best. Personally I enjoy the southern coast at sunset the best. Everything 
 is rendered beautifully, most notably the background and foreground, but the characters and monsters 
 as well. The detail in everything is amazing, even to holding up your sword in the daylight to 
 see the metal glistening. Or the blood splattered on it. Their attention to detail is amazing and 
 is clearly one of the games highlights. 
  
  There is still so much more to possibly explain and go over, but most of it, especially the story, 
 is best left to be played. It is a beautiful game, and incredibly in depth. You can play for a 
 hundred hours and still not experience all there is to the game. However, personally after playing 
 it for around fifty hours and realizing I hadn't even finished a quarter of the game, I got a bit 
 disappointed and bored. The massiveness of it is not to be underestimated. However, to someone 
 who enjoys his stereotypical characters and cute chocobo's as I have for years, I find myself enjoying 
 a rollercoaster anime styled RPG more than the realistic Western ones. So, if you don't mind the 
 American/European themed things and overall feel of a game like this, definitely get it. But if 
 you prefer the anime/Final Fantasy styled kind of RPG's to your liking, you may want to just rent 
 this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Elegroth
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 27, 2008 6:50 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls Series is one of my favorite RPG Series of all time. This one proves to be the 
 best so far.
  
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is one of the best looking games of it's time and now with a lot 
 less bugs and glitches than the Xbox 360 and PC Version for the better or worse. Unfortunately, 
 you cannot get patches and modifications for the PS3 Version, only the PC Version, so you will 
 only have what the game comes with. Luckily, there will be enough things to keep you busy for the 
 next 200 - 300 hours, at least, and a heavy addiction will follow.
  
  Unlike The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind you can actually customize ever feature of your character 
 from their nose, to their mouth, down to their feet. You can even customize the color their skin 
 and make them look anywhere from 16 - 70+. 
  
  
  I highly recommend this game to any RPG player and any fan of The Elder Scrolls Series will love 
 this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Raven-Army
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 6:55 am PT
Review:  I bought this game after reading a few reviews online and watching game play videos on youtube 
 etc. 
  I was in the market for a Hands-on roleplaying game with plenty of action (i used to play FF and 
 was a massive Zelda fan from the beginning) though these days I find it hard to commit to endless 
 pages of text and menus and sometimes the very idea of starting the latest "epic quest" can seem 
 a little daunting.... having said that, the rumour with this game is "you need to experience it" 
 so taking that statement with a pinch of salt, I dove in. 
  
  As you maybe aware, Oblivion is a First person RPG with a strong dose of action and hands on attitude 
 in a Sandbox enviroment. As with most Sandbox games, the possibilities are seamingly endless. Starting 
 your game out has you run through what turns out to be a training mission / quest which serves 
 for the game to monitor how you play the game and suggest a possible character class, skills etc, 
 you also get the chance to choose from many different races and to tweak your appearance to fine 
 detail. 
  The game has a strong story line running through it with top class voice acting and thousands of 
 cause and effect choices to be made, there are also hundreds of side quests / stories to be taken 
 up, all of which supprised me in their variation, with some open ended games, the side quests can 
 seam somewhat tacked on, but not so with Oblivion and often you can spend days not even touching 
 the main quest, caught up deep in assasinations, alchemy, Theivery, Gladatorial combat, Hunting 
 Vampires, searching out ingredients, raiding tombs the list goes on. 
  The first person perspective is very effective and immersive (though you do have the option to 
 switch to a less effective third person mode if required) and the combat works suprisingly well 
 with more moves and greater mobility added as your characters skills increase. 
  A quick word on leveling up, most games of the RPG nature, traditionally use experience points 
 to reward your activity, where as in oblivion, repeatedly using a skill will eventually increase 
 your talent at this which realistically sees you character develop in the way you individually 
 play for example a frequent user of the bow will have his / her shots become more powerful and 
 will eventually be rewarded with a zoom in ability. 
  
  The monsters, the characters, the options and the story lines all highlight this game to be a labour 
 of love for Bethesda studios, i recommend you try this out if you havent already, and although 
 the magnitude of it all can at first be a little daunting, I would say give it a week and Oblivion 
 will be under your skin and in your thoughts. 
  
  Doc P - Raven Army
  
  10/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: west7899
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 10, 2008 5:29 am PT
Review:  THis is probably one of my Favorite PS3 games, and apparently, GS thinks its great as well. To 
 be honest, i thought having a first-person RPG would be a bit weird, cuz im really used to 3rd 
 person, and Knowing most of these "Great Graphics" games have some pretty creepy monsters, and 
 even if they werent supposed to be, the good graphics of the game would make it irresistible for 
 the developers to make even a dog look like EVIL. Well, The Graphics are Pretty good, but since 
 this was like one of the first games to come out on PS3, they are a tad bit worse than other games (but 
 theyre still awesome) . 
  In this game, you play as a Character of your choice, and pretty much run around, do quests, kill 
 things, screw around like most RPGs. But i think its a bit more fun doing them in THIS game.... probably 
 just cuz its 1st person, but then again, you never know. 1st person really makes Dungeon, Mine, 
 Tomb, Ruins pretty exhilarating to explore ("exhilarating" as in..... Creepy but at the same time, 
 stimulating... don't know how to describe it.... anxious maybe?) . i mean, you could just be walking, 
 and a zombie just suddenly pops out of God knows where, and you get pretty freaked out. However, 
 1st person does have its setbacks, like Combat, if your not used to it, its pretty weird. Like 
 me, i still suck at combat... even though i enjoy it so much. Also, 1st person makes you do a bit 
 more work... like aiming arrows or fireballs which can get you really pissed off if you miss too 
 many times, or worse, killed. the world of Tamriel is huge, and i havent even travelled everywhere 
 yet (mainly cuz im lazy and i dont wanna run into some camp filled with monsters that i will NOT 
 have a joy fighting... mostly cuz i dont like how the monsters look... most of them look like something 
 from..... a bad place lol... but i guess im a bit more sensitive about these things...) . No party 
 members exept in the rare occasion of a quest, and when you become the Arena Champion in the Bestuary, 
 this little guy (a midget?) named "Adoring fan" lol asks if he can follow you around... you can get 
 him to follow, stop following, and stay in one place..... also, if its dark, he'll get a torch. 
 he CAN get quite annoying in his sudden outbursts when you accidently turn around a face him, or 
 when you steal something he bursts outWHAT? WHAT? I DIDNT SEE ANYTHING" i mean, your just there 
 all stealthy and quiet and you steal all this stuff, and suddenly, "BLAH BLAH BLAH" it really scares 
 the hell outa you for an instant. speaking of theft, if you get caught by a more Honest person, 
 theyll report it to a guard who will come up to you and fine you, or make you go to jail. 
  Personally, i think the Guards are hillarious, they just run up to you and goSTOP YOU VIOLATED 
 THE LAW!!!!!  :O) and you can resist arrest, go to jail, or pay your fine. i enjoy resisting arrest 
 so i can kill him and take his armor... though thats just screwing around for me, and i just reload 
 to before i did the crime, cuz once you choose the "resist arrest" option, more guards come up, 
 and for every one you kill, your bounty goes up which means your pretty much Banned from any town 
 or certain inns. 
  this game should be quite familiar for any morrowind fan, and because of the graphics, gameplay, 
 and the voice acting (though they sometimes use the same voice for diffrent people.) , it'll probably 
 become a legend or be really popular in the future just like COD4. 
  Just one thing i REally dislike is the lack of a interactive environment : ( . i mean, wouldnt it 
 be fun if you coould just like... hurl a fireball and burn down a roof or something? .... welll, 
 i think thats a bit too much -___- .... ok, well, more like... if you hit a rock, the rock would 
 break a bit, or if you punched a glass urn, it would actually shatter? well, i think they shoulda 
 done that.
  but i guess this game is still fun despite that, and i really feel like sleeping cuz i havent had 
 any since forever, and that was about 2 hours. so hope you enjoyed this review, and i will try 
 to write more
  
  ... and about my Difficulty rating, it doesnt really apply to this game cuz you can change it.... but 
 it WAS just right for me. :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nintendoboy16
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 7, 2008 6:47 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an RPG that the player can choose their own path. The beginning 
 of the game starts as the player (after he/she created his/her character) wakes up in his/her prison 
 cell and sees that the prison guards and the Emperor (voiced over by Patrick Stewart) agree to 
 free you, but the only thing you need to do is help find a secret way out. As they nearly reach 
 the end, the emperor says to find his heir after he dies. His death came, but not in a good way, 
 he gets assassinated by a demonic creature (I can't remember which) . One of the emperors guards 
 tell the player on what they should do next now that the emperor is dead. If the player continues 
 to follow the story he asks a few priests on where to find the heir of the emperor, the heirs name 
 is Brother Martin (voiced by Sean Bean) . So the player goes to find brother Martin.
  
  What I liked about this game is that you can do what you want due to the high amounbt of content. 
 Stupendous graphics. Makes something up for RPG fans who were disapointed with Twilight Princess. 
 Great gameplay.
  
  The only thing in this game that ticked me off is that the graphics can somehow become PS3 graphics 
 to PS2 graphics.
  
  Overall, Oblivion is a real treat for RPG fans. For those who were disapointed with Twilight Princess 
 or who's just plain bored with TP, this will cheer you up heavily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakndaxter7223
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Okay, I'll be honest, I returned Oblivion when I first played it. In the beginning, you feel powerless 
 and overwhelmed. The world is ****ing huge, so I had no idea where to go, I didn't understand anything 
 about the mechanics, and I hated the people. I was lost. Yet I picked it up for the PS3 and my 
 God...310 hours later I am still hooked. This game is massive, amazing, innovative, and let's face 
 it... erotic. The beautifully crafted leveling system is hard to grasp at first, but once you realize 
 that the more you use each skill the better your character gets at it, you start to have loads 
 of fun. There are hundreds of quests in every city with their own moral choices and rewards, tons 
 of different factions for you to join ranging from the noble Fighter's Guild to the sneaky and 
 mysterious Dark Brotherhood, or assassin's guild. The characters are real and deep (save a few 
 random moments) and add immensely to the game. Every bit of dialogue is spoken so you will not 
 have to read for yourself. There are amazing details in all of the homes and caves and dungeons 
 that will boggle the mind. Truly this game is a masterpiece. The more you play Oblivion, the more 
 you will get out of it. And if you opt to purchase the expansion, The Shivering Isles, you will 
 get even more amazing gear and get to experience a totally different world. Best of all, its like 
 $30 so anyone should be able to buy it, and you won't have to play another game for months (except 
 until Metal Gear Solid 4 of course) All I can say is this game is amazing in every aspect and should 
 not be missed by any lover of RPGS.
  
  -Cheers 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vette68
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 6, 2008 3:24 pm PT
Review:  I have been a fan of The Elder Scrolls since the day the "Morrowind" came out i knew I had to get 
 Oblivion. I love the idea that you can create your own name and race in the game. First you start 
 out in a dungeon not knowing how you got their but the storyline of the game is to give the "amulet 
 of kings" to the emperor son who is next in line to rule over Cyrodiil. You can get into guilds 
 and help people throughout the game. In the game Oblivion, the player is free to do anything and 
 go anywhere inside the land of Cyrodiil at any time while playing the game and after completing 
 the main quest the game never ends. This game is my number one game out of all ps3 games so far. 
 This is the best game yet on ps3 and I do agree that this is a must buy game. I really hope they 
 make another one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashimgillani1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 18, 2008 11:57 am PT
Review:  The question that must be asked first and far most is, how many rpgs, are first person, have more 
 than a 100 hours of gameplay, open world and enough customization and options that are sure to 
 make you overwhelmed. Not many, in fact Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the only one. Released in 
 2006 on the 360 and PC, it released 6 months after on the PS3 with more content and just as epic. 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblvion size and beauty makes it a classic that will be remembered and compared 
 too for a long time. 
  
  GAMEPLAY: Where do I start? I mean the game is huge, bigger than anything preceding it, San Andreas, 
 Just Cause, Merceneries, Saints Row, Midnight Club 3, any open 
  world game. It starts off with you picking the appearance, characteristics, and attributes of your 
 character. This is the first sign you get on how much depth and detail this game holds for you 
 in the future. Usually an rpg or mmorpg gives you four or five categories in terms of race. Well 
 Oblivion offers around 15+. From there, you have to choose the star you are born under which will 
 mold your primary skills. Though you have primary skills, you have a choice to strengthen other 
 attributes when you level up. After you are done creating your character the game begins. It starts 
 off with you in a prison, in a medieval setting. You dont know why your in a prison, but as you 
 move around you hear someone talking. The guy in the cell across you is in fact insulting you, 
 but dont worry it gets what he deserves later on in the game... Suddenly, someone is coming down 
 the staircase, apparently its the king and 2 of his royal guards. The enter your cell and you learn 
 that the King had a dream where you are a hero who will save the world. Than you learn a great 
 evil is threatening the land and the King is in danger of being killed by an evil cult. The King 
 and guards than open a secret tunnel to the outside (too bad the prisoner didnt know before lol) . 
 So you have there either the choice of going through the castle to the outside or following the 
 King. You will probably follow the King, since its more exciting. After walking on 2 minutes the 
 cult attacks the King but you and the guards take them out. This is where you get a nice chance 
 at the combat system. R1 you swing the sword, holding it will result in poweful attacks. But if 
 you keep swining it, you will slowly drain your stamina. If depleted you will be vulnerable. Thats 
 why you use the sheild you have, blocking. I got the impression this is very similar to actual 
 sword and sheild combat, using almost the same elements and stragedy, footwork, dodging, patience, 
 wearing out the opponent. Though later into the game, if you have more of a warrior, sword combat 
 approach, you slowly begin to feel a sense of clumsiness to the attacks, but if you put more variation 
 into your combat with magic and summons and loads of weapons, that feeling is non existent. Furthermore, 
 after you defeat the cult you further go into the passage, only to be attacked again with a bigger 
 force. The guards tell you to protect the King with your life as the fight of the cult. While you 
 are near the King he again tells you your the one from his dreams, explains the evil behind the 
 kingdom, and gives you your first quest. Handing over an amulet which you must give to Jafer in 
 Winon Priory. But before you can say Jack the guards are overhwelmed as one of them falls, and 
 the King is attacked and dies. Followed by you and the guard taking the remaining cult out. From 
 there you set off on to your quest, before leaving the tunnel you are given one more chance to 
 adjust your characteristics because this is the last chance you will get. And than you are out. 
 The first thing you notice about the world just by one scenery is the size, in a scale around 20 
 km away is mountains, spearated from you with a lake. And so you begin, from there you have many 
 choices. You can follow the main storyline, or you can set off on your own way. Following the main 
 story line will be an investment of around 50 hours minimum, without ever touching upon side quests. 
 But if you indulge yourself in the beautiful world, your gonna be in this world for a long long 
 time. According to the GS review around 100 hours. But side quests are just as exciting as the 
 main storyline, personally even more exciting. Its not like you have to go meet that guy and he 
 gives you a quest and you do it, comeback and get your reward. Certainly it uses the same foundation 
 and formula. But you have to join a Guild. There are many guilds throughout the world in which 
 you can join, including the Mage Guild, the Fighters Guild, the Theifs Guild and my favourite, 
 The Dark Brotherhood also known as the Assassin's Guild. To start of any of these guilds you have 
 to prove yourself. For example for the Dark Brotherhood you have to kill some hold guy who is resting 
 at a hotel. But the ways its been presented is beautiful, you want to rest at an inn and you pay 
 your gold and fall asleep, picking when to wake up, around 7 am. But around 2 am, you wake up, 
 the air is colder and you feel a dark presence with you. The next thing you know a man dressed 
 in black, the torch hes holding making his face look scary and the mission he gives making you 
 ever more enthusiastic. You too coverse. Similar to many open world games, you have two or three 
 answers resulting in different outcomes. After your mission is a sucess you go back and given entry 
 to the headquarters from there on forward you will get your missions from there including the assassination 
 of the guy who insulted you in prison. You will also advance in rank and acquire rare and magical 
 weapons and items that you arent about to get in local shops. In the example of the Dark Brotherhood, 
 during your 10th mission you acquire a black stallion that runs faster than any other horse. Also 
 at a point in time you become the leader of the guild after you have completed all the missions. 
 Than there are the shops, all over the world they are located. You can enter a shop and talk to 
 the merchant, either you can buy or sell. But when your inside any building, anywhere, there are 
 items laying around, plates, or books, if you go to a weapon shop there are weapons laying around 
 and you have the option of picking them up. Once you pick up any item, the people around you get 
 alerted and start attacking you, apparently your a theif. There are only two ways to get out, the 
 first if you have a good personilaty meaning points in your personality attribute, they will probably 
 stop once you tell them too. Otherwise, you run. Heres where things get messy, you run out of the 
 shop only to come to face to face with a guard, he'll give you three choices, Pay for the Crime 
 you have done, and if you have killed someone its atleast 1000 coins, otherwise 200 or 300 coins. 
 Second choice is to go to Jail, all your equipment is confiscated from you, you go to your cell. 
 In your cell you have a small mattress, if you approach it and press the action button you start 
 serving your sentence, couple of months. For example, I spent 150 days in Oblivion time (30 hours) , 
 25 of them playing the game, 125 of them serving sentences. The final choice you get is Resist 
 Arrest. That means you face off aganist the guard. Probably two or three. They may be easy if your 
 pretty strong but they dont stop coming. If you manage to escape, run to the barn, steal a horse 
 and you off but once you reach any town, any city the guards will be alerted and you'll still be 
 running. So eventually you do have to pay or serve your sentence. If you are in the theifs guild 
 you can go to Theif Guild coordinator and pay them half the coins you pay the guards and your free. 
 Also, throughout the game, gates to Oblvion start popping up, these have to do with the actual 
 story. These are portals to a hellish world filled with demons and towers and your job is to close 
 them. You get your first taste during the intial missions of the story. The only flaw to this game 
 is once you get attached to a certain guild you dont want to come back to the main story. This 
 makes you lose interest in the story cause something like the Brotherhood is definitley more interesting 
 and thrilling than being a delivery boy. 
  
  
  GRAPHICS/VISUAL PRESENTATION: The game is beautiful. Textures are great, framerate is smooth, backgrounds 
 are detailed, cities are lively, characters are colorful. Everything in terms of visuals is beautiful 
 about this game. Though at times, your riding your horse along the road, and 100 m from a certain 
 spot you see a boulder, than as you approach it a tree and a bush pops up. This isnt really a rare 
 occurence but certainly not a nuisance. The camera angle can be adjusted to 3rd person or 1st person 
 however the game is meant to be played in first person. Though during horseback third person is 
 favorable. 
  
  FINAL COMMENTS: All in all Oblivion is a glorious game that has set new standards in the RPG criteria. 
 The game features depth of the likes which has never been seen before whether it be guild missions, 
 customization or conversations, its all your choice and these options shape your character and 
 your future. It is sure to keep you busy for months, and even after your done the story there is 
 always something to do in the world of Oblivion. The game does not get a perfect score because 
 though its story is solid and great, you start put priority of one of the guilds to the story, 
 making you lose interest. Its not much of a problem because by the time you lose interest you have 
 around 50 hours into the game. I recommend this gamers who have some sort of patience, and with 
 it they will start to understand the depth and beauty of Elder Scrolls IV. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stijnf
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 18, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  It was a while since i played my last RPG, must have been one of the Final Fantasy releases on 
 PS I. When i read about The Elder Scrolls IV, i must admit i hadn't even heard of the earlier versions 
 of that game. Anyway, i decided to give it a try. I immediately was hooked and played for hours. 
 Very satisfying to be able to build out your caracther, to roam the enormous map, visit cities, 
 encounter a long list of different caracthers and solve the very different tasks. The story line 
 has been highly invested in and makes this a very immersive game.
  
  Still, after a while you get frustrated because each time you're able to strengthen your caracthers, 
 so do your opponents. This makes the game very difficult and after a while.... i just gave up. 
 
  
  Too bad. Anyway. This game definitely re-newed my appetite for RPG's and I will keep my eye on 
 new releases in the future. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Amir29
Rating: 9
Date: May 16, 2008 11:30 am PT
Review:  Initially I wasn't going to get this game. But, after reading a review here on Gamespot I decided 
 to give the only 9.5 rated game (at the time) a shot. Man was I impressed. There's lots of content 
 here, and even today I have yet to beat the Shivering Isles expansion pack. My gaming hours are 
 somewhere around 70 hours, and I expect at least 30 more before I run out of things to do here. 
 
  
  Everything here is free form for the most part. You feel like you can truly do what you wish in 
 this large world. I started out my game as a thief and repeatedly watched when store owners would 
 leave their businesses so I can rob them of their loot. Two of my other friends began completely 
 different. One wait straight for the story line missions, and another went out of the city immediately 
 to begin exploring outside dungeons. The end result? Three completely different experiences leaving 
 us with much to talk about when we would hang out. 
  
  The fighting mechanics are great considering this is in a First Person perspective. The fighting 
 is not turn based. You are in complete control of the battle. See a goblin about to swing his dagger 
 at you? Bring your shield up or parry his strike with your own. See an enemy around the corner? 
 Sneak from behind the wall and shoot him with an arrow to the head.
  
  Tons of weapons and depth here too. Using a weapon will cause it to wear and eventually break. 
 That's ok though. Just go to someone to repair it or learn to repair them yourself. Learn magic 
 from a school there. Join a guild for more missions. Listen to townsfolk discuss news in town about 
 a mission you completed, or a problem a friend is having that may be able to help with. Man... 
 I can type forever when it comes to what you CAN do... Let's talk about my gripes then...
  
  Many character voices are the same which takes you out of the convincing environment and leaving 
 you feeling once again that this is just another game. Also, there are very few character models 
 in comparison to a city's population. THat means many of the same looking and same sounding characters. 
 Now, at first that doesn't seem like a big deal, and it's very easy to overlook, but now that I've 
 been playing this game for sooo many hours... The game gets a bit bland and you kind of just want 
 to rush through the missions cause they lose their sense of urgency and do not succeed in exciting 
 you with much motive. BUt, keep in mind, this will not bother until you have already completed 
 most of your quests and put in at least 40 hours.
  
  Another gripe for me (and it may not be a gripe for everyone) is the ability to change the difficulty 
 on the fly. That means if you're about to die, just pause move the slider to the easiest setting 
 and kill your opponents in one hit. Now this may not be an issue for those with self discipline, 
 but man... it's really hard to resist when you feel like you're about ot die :P
  
  Overall, if you're a lover of role playing games and are looking for depth and full control of 
 your character when it comes to fighting. This IS the game to get for PS3. You don't have to even 
 think twice. Go to the store and get it.... NOW!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: reign_six6six
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 8, 2008 8:32 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game. The map is huge you can pretty much go anywhere you want to. You can 
 just about do anything to your character that you want also at the beginning of the game you get 
 to set up your character there are tones of things you can pick from. The story is pretty creative 
 and involving. It is pretty easy to get side tracked so when you play make sure you keep and eye 
 on the main goal so you don't get lost. It's not as complicated as it sounds lol. The graphics 
 are wonderful everything has so much detail to it. Its almost hard to imagine all of that stuff 
 fits on to a disk. The game play is done pretty well you can switch between 3rd and first person 
 views they both come in handy in certain situation. This is one of the best RPGs I've played I 
 don't like turn based combat and luckily Oblivion isn't like that you're free to fight however 
 you want to. If you like Role Playing Games and want a good game then this is definitely a good 
 choice :-) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jagsman
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 5, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion will genuinely spoil you. Quite simply put, this game will cast all others in the shade, 
 and whenver you find yourself trying any other game you will ask yourself "why couldn't they do 
 more with this?"
  
  It's straightforward - Oblivion is a masterpiece. This isn't one of those games that'll be good 
 for a few years 'till something better comes along, this is something that millions will play for 
 an extremely long time. Quite right, too.
  
  I could go into every little detail - but I wouldn't have the space. Suffice to say this game let's 
 you tell your own brilliant story. You will live another life, and it's brilliant fun. You can 
 buy houses, become an assassin, rob people, explore the (vast) world, invest in merchants, rise 
 to the top of several organisations or simply go around helping people out for little rewards.
 
  
  This game is deep, and I MEAN deep. Prepare for your life to be shelved for at least a few weeks, 
 probably more.
  
  The only drawback can really think of is in fact that it may just be too much for some. If you 
 don't really get stuck right into games and enjoy a bit of micromanaging, then you'll struggle 
 to keep your head above the water here. There's a lot to be done, and not doing it well can ruin 
 the experience.
  
  I guess it's a necessary price to pay for such an immersive game to exist, and the fact that the 
 above is its only true flaw speaks volumes.
  
  Get it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: curtum
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 30, 2008 5:23 pm PT
Review:  This game is truly amazing! it's such a big world that you could probably play this game forever. 
 you can do so much in this game, steal from a random house, assassinate someone, join the mages 
 guild, go fight as a gladiator . all of this asside from the main quest.
  you could easilly spend 100's of hours on this game there is so much to do.
  The graphics are 
 nice but don't expect them to be at the same level as assassins creed.
  loading times can be anoying but it's really not so bad . (and they are shorter than the 360 too 
 :) this game is a must own!
  buy this game you won't regret it!
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 1, 2009 10:49 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the latest game in the series and now it's also available for 
 the PS3. The game is just amazing from beginning to the end. You will have to create your own character 
 at the beginning of the game, you can choose races, hair styles, colors and many more things regarding 
 your physical appearance. Besides this you will also have to choose other facts which will determine 
 how you character will develop in the game. It is just like in the previous game in the series but 
 it's just more complex and looks a lot better. Using some weapons or carrying a type of armor will 
 increase your skill at this object and eventually you will be able to get your character a level 
 upgrade. This is one of the most beautiful things about this game, it just feels so real. The game 
 features a main story and very many side missions. The completion of the game will take almost 300 
 hours by doing almost everything to do in this game. The main story is very well done and very interesting. It's 
 just one of those games in which you actually care about the story and the characters in it. You 
 can do almost anything in this game: you can be an assassin, a thief, a vampire and many more things 
 It is an open-ended game. Just as you head out of the sewers and walk into the kingdom you will 
 be amazed by the incredible graphics. The game runs smoothly and has no frame rate problems at all. 
 The sound is also superb, the game melody changes depending on what you are doing: when you're just 
 walking around it will be slow and relaxing but when enemies approach you will feel a change of 
 rhyhtm in the music. The voice acting is very good especially for the individual characters, as for 
 the citizens of the cities there is the same voice for everyone from the same class. One of the 
 not so brilliant thing is the fighting which just seems to be too simple and with nothing special, but 
 this is only because everything else is. This is must have game and deserves a good mark. BUY THIS 
 GAME!!!
  
  My Score 9.6 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sparda_13
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  I am not going to talk about the obvious things that people usually talk about in their reviews.... 
 no I'm going to talk about the little, hardly noticable things that still make this game more realistic... 
 for example the fact that you can hear all your footsteps and every action that you do even better 
 at night since there are less people around. the fact that not only do you have your own life but 
 other people aswell. People are not always found in their houses especially during the day. they 
 could be found chilling somewhere and when you do find them in their house, they are not always 
 standing up senslessly, no they are sometimes sleeping or sitting down. The guards are not always 
 on duty and if you notice the names of the guards, you will sometimes see them walking around with 
 casual clothes. the stores open at 8am and close at 8pm. People have about 4 things to talk about 
 everytime that you talk to them and they don't always say the same thing about everything. To make 
 them even more lifely, if you are searching for a certain person or place during a quest, you can 
 ask the town people. Stealth is easier to pull off if you have soft shoes or no shoes at all. Even 
 the screen makes it as if you are the character and not just controlling him. When you talk to 
 people about personal stuff, they would refuse to open up to you but if you talk to them further 
 and let them get to know you, they would tell you... I am sure that there are lots more stuff that 
 make this game more realistic but I can't seem to remember them all. Did this help anyone who was 
 questioning the interactivity of Cyrodiil? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cag40oz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 26, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best role playing games I have played to date. WIth Oblivion: The Elder Scrolls 
 IV you will easly become sucked in, and find it hard to walk away from the screen. The storyline 
 is solid and doesn't end prematurely like many role playing games. This is the kind of game that 
 will have you day dreaming at work about the gameplay. There are many side missions that you can 
 take on once you have completed the main story or if you get tired of the main storyline. One of 
 the best qualities of this game is the ability to make your own potions. WIth all of the options, 
 you will most likely spend some time personalizing your kits. As you earn cash you will be able 
 to viist stores to buy clothing, housing, furniture, food, potions, weapons and armor. The map 
 is huge and you will be surprised how much there is to do. The replay rate of this game is very 
 high. This game is rate #1 amond the PS3 for all types of games ALL TIME on gamespot. CHECK IT 
 OUT. This is definitely a "Must Have" for your collection! WELL WORTH THE TIME AND CASH SPENT! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 25, 2008 9:12 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is without a doubt one of the deepest, longest and most rewarding games ever made. That 
 said, Oblivion also suffers from some major flaws which hold it back from being truly elite.
  
  To start, the story in Oblivion is completely dull. Its so cliche its almost distracting. Basically, 
 the world is about to end and its your job to stop it. The game is played from either a first or 
 third person perspective and the game is easy to control. Basically, one button is jump, one is 
 attack, one is magic, one is block and one opens your journal. Pretty standard stuff. Combat basically 
 falls into the mundane category. You attack, block and repeat until your enemy is dead. Archers 
 or mages merely walk backwards while firing until the enemy is dead. This is still an improvement 
 over Morrowind, but other action RPG's have proved that combat can be a lot more fun than this. 
 The combat though isn't really the point of Oblivion. The game is all about leveling and becoming 
 the most powerful person in the empire. Through the course of the game you can become the leader 
 of four different guilds, save the world and become arena champion, as well as completely dozens 
 of things to do What's truly amazing is how you can play this game in so many different ways. You 
 can focus on stealth, magic or combat, but even these can be separated into various subcategories. 
 On top of that, you can spend 200 hours with the game and still not see something that someone 
 else who has spent 20 hours with the game has. That's how truly incredible this game is. Its deep 
 and expansive. You can literally spend hundreds of hours in this game and still not be done.
  
  The main flaws of Oblivion are technical. First off, the framerate is terrible. This is the 
 next generation folks, developers have to be able to stabilize framerates. Also the loading times 
 when riding or running through the open areas are a real pain. Its terribly upsetting when you 
 are in the middle of an epic battle only to be interrupted by a load screen. When riding a horse 
 the load screens are so constant that you spend almost as much time loading as you do playing. 
 Very annoying. Pop-in is also a real distraction. I truly hate when a tree appears two feet in 
 front of me. That just wrecks the realism for me. Also the backgrounds look horrible. On a brighter 
 note, the artistic style is great, and the alteration of the sky around oblivion gates is really 
 neat. Also the interior of the gates are very eye catching. The game looks much better in high 
 definition.
  
  Voice acting in the game is effective and the music is epic if not that memorable. After hearing 
 the work that the composer did with Guild Wars it is pretty upsetting to hear the second rate music 
 in Oblivion.
  
  Overall this is a long and deep game which will keep you immersed for hours. Truly an impressive 
 achievement, Oblivion is only held back by some serious bugs. The game freezes during some loads, 
 enemies can get stuck on the environment, and I have even witnessed a player glitching out of a 
 level. These are rare and minor things but the poor technical performance really hinders the gameplay 
 experience buy this game and you kiss my feet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Anti-Nerd_Gamer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 24, 2008 7:57 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game. It's enviroment is positively stunning. The first thing i said when i first 
 started was holy crap. The characters the enviroment the cities, they all look great. Another plus 
 side is the hours u can get out of it. You could pretty much have the game 4 years and not do everything, 
 its such a vast world. In the beginning the quest were really cool and creative, but after doing 
 all the main ones, you start 2 notice a pattern of the same rhythm of direction and completion. 
 It seemes as if the designers follow the same blueprints of tastks, but just put different characters, 
 locations, and items. Also on the downside is the lagginess, after you play the game 4 a few weeks, 
 it gets really laggy. Im not sure y cuz ur not even online or nything. My hunch is that too much 
 information is being stored. But other than those two bad things everything is absolutely phenomenal 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stowik
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2009 8:48 pm PT
Review:  First of all, the Elder Scrolls series is amazing! Gamers everywhere owe Bethesda a debt of gratitude 
 for making such killer games. 
  
  Secondly, there is a grizzled part of the RPG community who see Morrowind as a compromise from 
 the "hardcore" feel of Daggerfall, or -- more common -- see Oblivion as a crime against humanity because 
 it lacks SOMETHING from Morrowind... what that something is may be hard to define, but there is 
 no shortage of people opining about it. 
  
  Let's agree that the series AS A WHOLE is excellent and that each game offers something different, 
 as opposed to one being so much better than the other. 
  
  Enough of that... now onto Oblivion. 
  
  The first thing that struck me about Oblivion is that 
 the production values are through the roof. The voice acting, music (!) , artwork and graphics are 
 breathtaking. It's got so much polish for the amount of content there is that it's hard to believe 
 anyone could make a game this long AND "shiny". 
  
  Although I was expecting no less than perfection in this department (considering Bethesda's record) , 
 I am still impressed by the HUGE amount of backstory/side quests that there are in Oblivion. Not 
 just any stupid side quests that you would find in an MMO, but these generally are very well thought 
 out, compelling and have you traveling all over the gameworld. It's like you get a hundred great 
 stories wrapped up in one game. 
  
  I think a major improvement over Morrowind is the FAST TRAVEL of Oblivion. It saves a ton of time 
 and keeps your environment varied and enjoyable. 
  
  Another great feature of Oblivion is the lockpicking and persuasion minigames. They are fun, have 
 purpose and fit in really well -- they don't distract or feel out of place at all. 
  
  Combat is good... a mix of magic, stealth and melee. Possibly on the easy side at default, but then 
 again that is why the game has a difficulty slider. 
  
  The main quest is pretty good. I would say it's not as compelling as Morrowind's, HOWEVER, I think 
 the side quests in Oblivion are better than those in Morrowind... and, as mentioned, there are a 
 TON of side quests -- not to mention the two expansions -- so it evens out. 
  
  Gameplay... production values... content... what's not to like about Oblivion? Well, there is one 
 thing that personally bothers me... and people who haven't played Morrowind won't notice it.... but 
 here it is:
  
  The loot you can get is tied to your character level. Feel like dungeon crawling for an hour for 
 fun at a lower level? You will be rewarded with perhaps a few gold pieces, some generally crappy 
  This really takes some of the incentive out of exploring and raiding 
 random places and I think it SUCKS. 
  
  That's all I got. Oblivion is the type of game, like Morrowind and Daggerfall (in it's day) , why 
 we have "10s" on the rating scale. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheReaper45
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 5:01 pm PT
Review:  When I first picked up this game I didn't really know what to expect, because I hadn't really played 
 any rpg's before. This was my first experience. And this experience is the best gaming one I have 
 ever had.
  
  As soon as I got out of the sewers (tutorial) I just realised the sheer size of this behemoth game. 
 Never had I encountered such a massive game or had seen such lush graphics and detail.
  
  When you first start the game it is fairly straightforward, pointing you where to go to continue 
 the storyline. But, as you get more experienced, you encounter some mini-quests. They range from 
 helping a citizen in need, raiding a dungeon and obtaining an item, or even murdering someone. 
 Another great thing about these mini-quests, is that there is so many you could never finish them 
 all. You can also join guilds that are Thieves Guild, Mages Guild, Fighters Guild and The Dark 
 Brotherhood, adding even more quests to the game.
  
  Oblivion is an unfinishable game. Even if you are the highest level in every skill and overall, 
 finished all the quests and explored every cave, dungeon, fort and ayleid ruins, you will still 
 encounter something new.
  
  Oblivion has the potential to make any type of character you want. Ranging from assassin, master 
 thief, mage, warrior, merchant or just a normal citizen. This is what makes the game so addictive 
 and people always coming back for more.
  
  This game does not come without faults however. There are numerous glitches and tweaks in the game 
 that can get very frustrating. Also, the new leveling system. As you level, the creatures and people 
 around you level with you. And, for example, if you are level 1 and obtain a ring that has fortify 
 blade 2 points, and a level 20 gets the ring, it would say something like fortify blade 10 points. 
 Which can get annoying. Although some people might love this system, it is not to my liking.
  
  Another is that if you are a very high level, the game can get very difficult, as there are 
 no easy monsters because you are the highest level, and you only fight the strongest monsters in 
 the game.
  
  Overall Oblivion in my opinion is the best game in the world and anyone owning a ps3, xbox 360 
 or pc should pick this game up immediately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzonemaniac
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:47 am PT
Review:  One of the best games ever made. Theres nothing erally wrong with this game. Only but a couple 
 of **** in the game but is all good. The faction quest are amazing with the  
 and thieves guild. You can do anething you wnat to do on the game.
  Make a theif, wizard, warior, saint, pickpotet, ay class you want you can do. And the main quest 
 opens so many portals in the game to Oblivion and any else you can imagian. The nights of the nine 
 was fun its like a side faction you can make and be the leader of. And the arena is fun to get 
 your level up and to get alot of money. And bying a house on the game is fun to do as well and 
 doing whatever quest you fell like doing. Exploring caves killing animals goblins, ghosts, mineotaurs, whatever 
 you can find. Oh and alchemy is fun do do to when you get into the plains of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithsmith07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 9:48 am PT
Review:  Its hard to talk about oblivion without wanting to jump out of my seat for joy. After playing morrowind 
 for hundreds of hours, all i wanted to enhance that game was tighter graphics and a better fighting 
 system. Well obvlion did just that and even more. There are so many side quests, dungeons, and 
 epic quests that you will be enthralled for hours upon hours. I will play this game even after 
 the new Elder Scrolls game comes out. Its just that good. You should definetally pick up the GOTY 
 edition. With the shivering isles (which is an extremely cool alternate universe to Tamriel) and 
 other additional side quests and items, its certainly worth the extra 30 bucks. I cant say enough 
 about Oblivion that hasnt allready been said, so just take my word for it and check it out yourself. 
 My recommendation, become a vampire. You cant go out during the daytime and your weak to fire, 
 but the powers that you get are really cool and they help out a lot during the game. Oblivion rocks! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: crusher97
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 14, 2008 10:24 pm PT
Review:  JUST WHEN YOU THOUGHT YOU FOUND THE BEST GAME EVER A GAME LIKE THIS COMES OUT WITH ABSOLUTELY NO 
 FLAWS COMES OUT.
  
  1000/10 FOR GRAPHICS
  
  1000/10 FOR SOUND
  
  1000/10 FOR GAMEPLAY
  
  1000/10 FOR TILT
  
  100000000000000000000000/10 FOR VALUE
  
 
  SO WHEN IT COMES DOWN TO IT TO ME AND TO EVERYBODY THIS IS ONE OF THE MOST MEMORABLE GAMES EVER 
 MADE AND I HAVE GOT EVERY EXPANSION KNOWN TO MAN ON THIS GAME AND THERE COOL TOO. so everybody 
 my final opinion is that THIS IS THE BEST GAME EVER MADE AND GAMESPOT BETTER MAKE HIGHER RATINGS 
 BECAUSE THIS GAME HAS GOT A
  
  OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION 
 OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION 
 OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION 
 OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION OBLIVION
  
  A 999999999999999999999/10 thanks for listning to my review for oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rs0411
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2008 3:55 am PT
Review:  I really can not explain anouth how fantastic this game is, it is something which you have to see 
 for yourself.
  
  You start of choseing what race you want to be (Orc, Elf etc) and then you wait in a cell with 
 anouther prisoner oppisit taunting you. You then find yourself crawling threw the sewers to get 
 to your freedom. At this point you get a glimps of what the combat is like in the game. 
  
  However eventually, once you escape the sewers, you immediantly glance over a truely beutifal magical 
 world. If you want to continue with the story then go to where the map tells you, however you do 
 not have to do this if you dont want, you can go off and explore the various citys and forests 
 and get into your own adventures.
  
  The World: The world itself is filled with encharted forests and cold winter like mountains. It 
 has several towns and citys aswell with various people to interact with.
  
  Also the game plays out on how you act in the world. for example if you break into houses and loot 
 or if you steal horses with out paying for them, then local criminals with start to get into contact 
 with you and try to recruit youl. Howver if you are good and help people, then people will respect 
 you.
  
  The main story itself is thrilling anouth aswell as the various other side quests which you can 
 find yourself doing as time goes along
  
  Dont hesitate, BUY THIS GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandadude01
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 12:28 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is set in the fictional world of Tamriel. Like most RPG's, there are a number of classes 
 and races you can choose from which dictate your stats at the beginning of the game. These options 
 are chosen at the beginning of the game, and then it's straight off into the action. 
  
  The initial sequence acts as a tutorial to the game's mechanics. It teaches you how to select and 
 pick up weapons, how to interact with NPC's and how to use magic among many other things. Unlike 
 most game's introductory stages, Oblivion makes it fun and intriguing. The story is immediately 
 engaging, meaning that after the first 60 minutes of tutorials is finished, and you are left wondering 
 how to solve the impending dilemma.
  
  After the introduction, you are prompted to continue with the main quest, but you are in no way 
 forced to do so. The world of Tamriel is open for exploration. As soon as you catch your first 
 glimpse of the outside world, you realise just how magnificent it is. The Sun can be seen glinting 
 in the lake, the trees can be seen on the hills in the distance and old ruins can be seen on island 
 refuges. You instinctively wonder how much of what you can see you can actually explore. Thankfully, 
 almost 100% of it can be walked about and inspected for hidden caverns or ruins.
  
  The main quest is interesting enough and will probably take around 30-40 hours to complete. It 
 involves defending Tamriel from evil foes from another dimension that enter Tamriel from mysterious 
 gates. Of course it becomes more complex than this, and there are some great moments. One of the 
 most interesting things is that many of the seemingly important NPC's who fight alongside you are 
 prone to dying. Refreshingly however, this usually does not result in you failing the quest. Instead 
 they are dead forever in the game. Some may find this annoying if they do not realise this before 
 they save a game, but to others it might be a welcome change from the norm, whereby a main character 
 dying results in failure.
  
  In Oblivion, there are literally hundreds of other characters to talk to. Most can be found in 
 one of the main cities, but others may be located in the depths of a forest, no where near the 
 rest of civilisation. When you find these characters, often by chance, it makes the world you are 
 playing in seem even more real. There is a good chance you could never have found them, but you 
 did stumble across them, much like you might in real life. What's more, most characters have a 
 quest attached to them, so it does make seeking out other characters worthwhile.
  
  There are many side quests to complete in Oblivion. You could easily spend at least another 100 
 hours on top of the main quest just completing all the other side quests. Whilst most of them are 
 just one quest for one person, there are some organisations within Oblivion which issue you quests 
 (such as the Fighters' Guild or the Mages' Guild) . As you complete quests for these organisations, 
 you rise in rank, eventually leading them.
  
  Combat is also different in Oblivion to most RPG's. Combat takes place in a first person view. 
 This is an original idea, and really makes the combat seem quite up close and personal. The controls 
 can feel a bit slow at times and not as fluid as a good first person shooter, but they are more 
 than adequate for sword fighting with enemies or attacking wild bears. There are hundreds of different 
 weapons you can wield too. There are a whole range of swords, maces, bow and arrows', staffs, shields 
 and daggers, just to name a few. Whilst the more common items will be easy to come by, some of 
 the more powerful weapons will be quite hard to get as there is usually only one of them hidden 
 somewhere and guarded by a strong enemy.
  
  The sound is also excellent in Oblivion. The background music almost always feels to be just right 
 given your environment. Furthermore, when you are fighting with a group of allies, you can hear 
 them shouting to intimidate enemies, crying out when they get hurt, or even yelling in pain as 
 they finally take one too many hits and die. It really adds atmosphere to the game. Perhaps this 
 is accomplished via some top notch voice acting talent, which includes Patrick Stewart or Star 
 Trek and X Men fame and Sean Bean (you know, bad guy in the James Bond film GoldenEye) . Having 
 such talented voice actors really makes the game of a superb quality.
  
  There really are too many possibilities in the world of Tamriel. You can go through the game how 
 you want to; you are not influenced in any particular way. You could choose to be a villainous 
 type only out for profit, or you could be a heroic warrior who saves the poor. It really is up 
 to you. In some ways the best moments in the game are the small things. All games have their set 
 pieces, but Oblivion creates its own random ones. For example you might stumble across a cave, 
 wander inside and discover a group of warriors fighting each other. Granted these events are not 
 comprised of huge explosions or destruction (well, some are) , but because they are not scripted, 
 they are somehow more special. The knowledge that something didn't have to happen the way it did 
 is quite amazing, and it compels you to play the game more in search of another random event. The 
 fact that this great gameplay can last for well over 100 hours means that you are most definitely 
 getting value for money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wotchadec
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 4, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  TES4 is an RPG in which you make your own character and build him up in the way you want. Starting 
 off, you make your own character and learn the controls, after which you distribute some abilities. 
 The controls are easy to use, and you can get into the swing of things well within 1 hour.
  The gameplay itself pits you against creatures and, if you feel like it, people although in this 
 area they have chosen tough baddies and not many of them rather than lots of easy enemies to butcher. 
 Having said that as you advance through a level scheme, you fight more bad guys depending on how 
 highly levelled your hero is.
  The graphics themselves are stunning, and can give some really great scenes. But the best thing 
 is, if you see a mountain in the distance, you can actually carry on running until you get there. 
 The skies and water look very realistic, although the graphics are perhaps let down by the way 
 trees and grass can sometimes suddenly appear in jerky motion.
  The sound is good, each race and gender seems to have 1 voice which, while sometimes feeling like 
 a letdown, also gives a unique sound to each race. The background music is good, although occasionally 
 it can get in the way if you're trying to listen to a character whisper - Nothing that the audio 
 menu can't change, though. The background music features an array of tunes while you're journeying 
 which fit in very nicely to each theme.
  Lastly, there is the depth which Oblivion has. I have never encountered so much detail put into 
 a game before. Firstly, there are thousands of books which you can pick up and read. These can 
 tell you lots of valuable information about treasures or storylines, or even helping to increase 
 your skills. Besides that, there is the amount of rumours that change as you play the game. You 
 can ask any random person for rumours, which can lead you to a new quest or treasure, perhaps even 
 discussing a hero who helped rid a place of evil (That's you ;) ) . On top of all this, there are 
 an endless amount of caves and lands to explore, a selection of guilds as well as an enthralling 
 storyline, which I won't ruin for you. There are also many wepons, bows and arrows of different 
 standards and qualities. And hell to learning magic spells - in this game you can make them. Yes, 
 I said make them. There is even more depth in oblivion, giving this game an endless lifetime.
 
  
  Overall, Oblivion features a great amount of depth with a good mixture of graphics, sound and gameplay. 
 Although if there was one improvement they could make, make more mindless, easy-to-kill enemies, 
 and make lots of them attack you at once!!
  
  Gameplay - 38/50
  Graphics - 14/15
  Sound - 9/10
  Depth - 25/25
  
  OVERALL - 86% 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2008 8:52 am PT
Review:  This is the best RPG game on the PS3 so far!! It's true ,this is a port but it's amazing and it 
 outdoes the original in every possible way!! It looks better and it loads faster, this is the best 
 port ever!!!
  
  Graphics are fantastic, thought its a first person view, this game is still very fantastic and very 
 fun. Story is amazing ,the camera doesnt get in way
  
  This is a must-buy for sure for all PS3 owners and even those who don't have a PS3, this game lasts 
 for hundreds of hours but before you buy it you must be certain that you'll like the game, watch 
 videos and look at screenshots before purchasing, theyre totaly amazing, so you will have more proof 
 too buy this amazing game
  
  
  1 of the greatest must buy RPG first-person game on PS3, belive it !you wont be disappointed with 
 this game, Oblivion elder scrolls is wat the the best RPG games stands for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Detroit421
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 10:08 am PT
Review:  This game is highly addictive. I became a pale vampire from staying inside so long playing this. 
 There may be a few glitches in this game but they are not bad enough to take any of the enjoyment 
 out of it. Also when you are out of first person mode and jump you look like an idiot. But overall 
 the action is intense and the story is very deep. Voice acting is good and you become attached 
 to the characters. The difficulty level is just right and the play control is excellent also. The 
 amount of freedom you have is amazing. You can go around killing things, complete side quests, 
 steal things what ever you want. I look forward to playing the expansion packs as well. Don't buy 
 this game if you want a social life in the next few weeks. Any one that likes to sit on there butt 
 and get really involved in a game this one is perfect!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xXxArchSagexXx
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:59 am PT
Review:  Ok so i bought Oblivion from a store and expected it to be somewhat similar in graphics or something 
 to Morrowind because i heard that this was 200 hours + of gameplay.... boy i was wrong. When i first 
 started it up... i got hooked instantly at the intro. This game is one of those games that shows 
 what the PS3 is capable of and wow it's capable of ALOT! The graphics were stunning! The addition 
 of the Knights of the Nine as a race was awesome. Everything about this game was really stunning. 
 You might be thinking, "200 hours... ha... i'll beat in less than 100..." , but that ain't going 
 to happen because i was really shocked to see that this game really had 200 hours of gameplay... So 
 why didn't i give a full-on 10? Well i encountered a FEW bugs with saving/loading, but luckily 
 i had backup saves, so nothing big plus the save/load bug only happened like three times.
  Other than that.... this game is one of a kind. Stunning graphics, amazing story, customization 
 of your character is really good (you get to change your eyes, nose, nose width, age everything....) , 
 controls aren't hard... put them all together and what do you have? Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion for 
 PS3 of course!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: amplifystryder
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 25, 2008 6:45 am PT
Review:  This game revolutionizes the RPG world. I am a fan of the FF series, so this is quite a twist in 
 the right direction for RPG games. If Final Fantasy were to try to be a little more like this (It 
 would be difficult, but they would manage... Unless they waste too much more time with Kingdom Hearts 
 3, they better freaking hurry it up with that game.) 
  This was the second game I got for the PS3, but the first one really worth anything. The graphics 
 are mind blowing and the gameplay is amazing. The number of things you can do in this game is astounding, 
 I love it, actually even if you were to plan it. You couldn't accomplish everything in one game, 
 because some quests are effected by results of other quests.
  So many 
  It does have a 
 few negatives though. First and formost, the main character has the most crappy jump I have seen 
 in almost every game I've ever played. The magic that you cast could be a little more, um, intimidating 
 too. Plus when you swing a weapon, you follow the same two to three patterns with every swing, 
 but that isn't as bad as some other things.
  Being a large step up the ladder of next-gen games, and considering it came out right at the start 
 of the next-gen war, they didn't check every nook and cranny, leaving room for many glitches. Such 
 as a person in the capital city who will give you infinite money if you paralyze him.
  The expansion packs allow for even more fun and adventures, especially the very bizarre Shivering 
 Isles! I actually wish I had the game for PC, for the sole purpose of using MODS. It would increase 
 the fun of the game ten fold with some of the MODS you can use. You can look those up on youtube 
 though, I'm not going to explain them, trust me, one word... cool!
  So all-in-all, this game easily reaches my top ten favorite videogames of all time. Ten out of 
 ten for sure, and I highly recommend for anyone with a PS3, 360, or decent PC. Be sure to get the 
 expansion pack editions too! 
  P. S. The range of difficulty is inhumanly various, and can be set by the player, making it perfect 
 for either newbie's or veterans.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: tagger343
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 24, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  Simply oblivion is a great game but only if you like rpg's if you dont then you will not like oblivion 
 it lags the loading screens are long the main story is rubbish the only good bit was the dark brotherhood 
 it was really dissapoiting to me after i was told it was such a good game and it probabbly is just 
 only if you like role- playing-games. Otherwise its just plain boring i went of it after 5 days 
 and the character creation is rubbish cos all the classes are rubbish morriwind was 10000000000000000 
 times better. I would reccomernd not buying this if you dont like games such as diablo or runescape 
 and medieval games. But the worst bit about the game is combat in real life 1 swipe of any sword 
 and your cut up it can take up to ten swipes to kill someone and the gameplay is realatively too 
 easy the can just kill people easily. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jimmyjit
Rating: 4
Date: Mar 23, 2008 8:39 pm PT
Review:  This is the second time I tried an RPG in my life and I will never try one again. This game gave 
 me nothing but a bad headache, some grey hair, warm hands and cold feet. It started off ok, but 
 the AI kept on trying to kill me for stealing a potato in Burma Mountains. So I started all over 
 again utill I got to the bookstore to get the third volume from an elf, who I basically said "hand 
 it over". The bookstore owner was a J e r k o f f, So I pushed him around a bit but with no weapons. 
 Then the whole town came after me with swords, that was it... I gave up again on RPG's. I don't 
 care how great the graphics look, or how long I can breathe under water, or how it reminds me of 
 how Gandolf was holding my hand when I was dreaming last night. This game is for RPG fans only. 
 If you are not into RPG's don't start with this one. I'm sorry but it was not worth the $26 bucks 
 I paid for it. Lots of folks will give this one a 10. or a 9.5 but I'm not feeling it. Again if 
 you like RPG's and you are into that thing by all means get it , play it for 200 hours, but if 
 you are not into looking for the dragons tooth, or the draekan cultist mirror and wizard's crown 
 stay away. I was really angry playing this. I really tried to understand the RPG genre but it just 
 made me angry and I screamed curses while playing. RPG gamers are fellow gamers, I must respect 
 them, just remind us non RPG players not to mess around with your genere ---it's your's to keep.
 
  
  Oh yeah, if you want to give me a thumbs down the game has more lag than someone playing Socom 
 online with Netzero as the ISP. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MakoNinja
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 22, 2008 8:30 am PT
Review:  When I first got this game a couple of months ago, I was expecting an experience similar to Morrowind, 
 A great game but slightly bland. Boy was I wrong! The Intro video showed the graphic upgrade and 
 as soon as I started the game I saw how many was you could create a character. Instead of the old 
 set of hair, colors, and faces there was skin tone, nose width, eye color, and even age! Hearing 
 people talking without you talking to them and interactive conversations. Plus the Dark Brotherhood, 
 you can join the Dark Brotherhood! OMG that quest line is freaking AWESOME! Go around assassinating 
 people. To bad the glitch that gave you god-like stats in Morrowind is gone but oh well, game is 
 good enough anyway. So until next time, I'm the world's favorite ninja MakoNinja.
  
  LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
 LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GtKiNg29
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 20, 2008 9:32 am PT
Review:  I don't think i can say anything bad about oblivion. so why didn't i give it a 10? The storyline 
 sticks for 200 freakin hours (no, seriously) and the gameplay is insanely awesome!! and the free 
 Knights of the Nine faction is an awesome additon. There is a problem I have a problem with gamesaves. 
 Three times i had to start over because i'll die and the autosave is messed up and there was no 
 saves. i was so mad when i was 73 hours in, then i died and didn't have a backup save. Which was 
 odd because believe me, i saved about every 10 minutes, but for some reason, i couldn't load any 
 of them up. That may be just me, and if it is, please let me know.
  
  Oblivion, for $30, is absolutely a game you must get. If you are careful with gamesaves, this is 
 one game you will be playing for a long time, or until an "Oblivion Killer" comes out (Fallout 
 3) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darth_Plate
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 9:24 am PT
Review:  After assassinating a hapless citizen who got on the wrong side of my silver longsword, I ran outside 
 as his wife dashed for the guards who stormed the house and realised the assassinater wasn't there. 
 After coming back out they caught sight of me and immediantly sprinted towards me with swords drawn. 
 Some archer guards fired arrow after arrow at me, nailing the wooden walls beside me with a chilling 
 PLUNK. I reached the gate and ran outside, seeing the stables and sprinting towards them. Jumping 
 on a horse, I gallaped away from the town buzzing with guards, leaving the dead man slumped against 
 his bloodstained wall, sightless...
  
  Oblivion has countless moments like these, even though it sounds just like Assassin's Creed, it's 
 not and it is. Oblivion is an awesome game, even though sometimes it can get boring when you don't 
 know what to do... This game is a must have for role playing fanics and elder scrolls droolers 
 alike... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 18, 2008 8:02 am PT
Review:  THE BEST RPG EXPERINCE AS AND TILL YET.... A VAST SURROUNDING WITH LOADS OF THINGS TO EXPLORE... THE 
 BEST THING ABOUT THE GAME IS THE FREE ROAMING.... IT'S JUST IMPOSSIBLE TO EXPLORE EACH AND EVERY 
 POINT IN THE GAME.... THE CHARACTERS ARE SPECTACULARLY REALISTIC AND REALLY HELPFUL... THE SCENERY 
 IS JUST BSPECTACULAR... U CAN JUST LOOK AT IT FOR HOURS AT A STRECH ... BUT THE BEST THING I LIKE 
 ABOUT THE GAME IS THE GAMEPlAY... U CAN CONTROL THE CHARACTER IN THE GAME WITH EASE.... THE ATTACKING 
 STYLES AND MOVEMENTS ARE ALSO OUT OF THIS WORLD ALTHOUGH THE ENEMIES DO SOME TIMES LOOK A LITTLE 
 STRANGE... CAUSE THATS THE ONLY FLAW I COULD FIND IN THE GAME.. LOLZ.......
  
  
  GAMEPLAY-
  10
  
  SOUND-
  10
  
  INTERFACE-
  10
  
  STORY-
  10
  
  GRAPHICS 
 -
  10
  
  
  RPG FAN... AND U DON'T HAVE THIS GAME.... WELL THEN U HAVE TO BE STUPID TO NOT BUT THIS MASTERPIECE 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ragdollsrock012
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 17, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The title says it all. Oblivion is a non-miss title. This game kicks serious butt. Whether its 
 the amazing combat system or the unsurprisingly long story, Oblivion is one title you have to get. 
 
  
  One of the big pros of Oblivion is that there is near total freedom. You can do quests whenever 
 you want to. It seems like the fun never ends! Which, to me, it doesn't. To beat all the quests 
 took me about 200 hours. Then when I found out that Shivering Isles was released for the Playstation 
 3, I went on Playstation store and bought it and haven't beaten everything yet. Also, the graphics 
 are stellar, the water moves and ripples as you do, and trees sway in Real-Time along with bushes, 
 grass, etc. Then, the use of Havok's physics engine was great because there's things such as movable 
 items in realistic ways, RAGDOLLS! Who doesn't like ragdolls? Come on, look at my username!
  
  As everyone knows, every game has cons. Oblivion is not an exception. My number one problem 
 was the VERY long load times. It took about 30 seconds to move into the next room at times! I may 
 sound like a whiner, but if you're in the middle of some great combat, it really pisses you off. 
 The other con is that Oblivion has a unsteady framerate. 
  
  So, with all that said, The Elder Scrolls 4: Oblivion is a first buy for RPG lovers. I'm definitely 
 not an RPG person, but Oblivion is still one of my top 10 games.
  -Andrew 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YetiMonster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 16, 2008 9:30 am PT
Review:  By now, we all know how great Oblivion is. It's immersive, beautiful, addictive, and more. Few 
 disagree with this, though Oblivion does have its problems -- the encounter scaling isn't in the 
 taste of some people, including me, and it can get extremely laggy on the 360 and PC.
  
  As I'm reviewing the PS3 version, I'd like to explain why I feel this version is best. I've had 
 minor luck at best getting the PC version to work fully. On the average computer, you can't regularily 
 experience the amazing graphics fully. Each mod you download means more chances for the already 
 large amount of bugs on the PC. The 360 version isn't much better, and I find loading times are 
 the same as on my PC, and it gets laggy during battle, when moving around the wilderness, or when 
 viewing huge, beautiful scenes. The colors are also highly saturated to a degree that burns the 
 eyes, with everything from faces to walls to small objects glowing bright colors. Some may like 
 the look, but I hate it. It ruins immersion, is just silly, and is ugly -- looking through the Guide 
 book shows this well, as often dull colors, the "shadows", contrast against shining colors.
  
  The PS3 version, while lacking the ability to modify it or get achievements, is really in my 
 opinion better. Not only is the disk hard enough so that slinging it at unsuspecting passersby 
 may cause brain damage, but the graphics are far more realistic and run beautifully on a 1080i 
 HDMI TV. They're realistic, and you can actually see the textures. I've had almost no lag whatsoever, 
 loading times are shorter, and it doesn't have the game breaking bug that the PC and 360 version 
 have with Shivering Isles.
  
  All in all, the game is wonderful whatever you play it on, but for those who don't care about modding 
 or achievements and just want to play an amazing game, I suggest the PS3 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tythewarrior
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 15, 2008 3:28 pm PT
Review:  There are few games that are as detailed and well thought-out as The Elder Scrolls series. In fact, 
 only the Final Fantasy series and Mass Effect have come anywhere close to matching such detail 
 as seen in this series. This game sets a challenge for all other RPGs to come this generation though. 
 It's unlikely we'll get such a detailed game within the next few years, and that's including Mass 
 Effect 2 and Final Fantasy XIII. There is hundreds of hours worth of gameplay in here, plus even 
 more if you throw in the Knights Of The Nine and Shivering Isle expansion packs. There are tons 
 of quests to go through, hundreds of people to talk to, many places to explore and alot of things 
 to do in general. But first, let me go through the basic plot with you, without ruining any spoilers. 
 You start off in the Imperial Prison, located within Imperial City. It's here where you create 
 your character. Everything from their gender, race, age, skin colour and hair. You even customise 
 your character's height and facial features to the slightest detail. However, once you've created 
 your character, you have one last chance to change them if you're unhappy with it. After creating 
 your character, the Emperor Uriel Septim comes into your prison cell and tells you that he's seen 
 you in his dreams, stating that you must journey with him and his bodyguards The Blades through 
 the corridors underneath the prison. After doing so, he is mysteriously assassinated by some cloaked 
 assassin's, leaving the world of Tamriel without an Emperor. It is now up to you to find the heir 
 to the throne, and close shut the gateways to the demonic world of Oblivion.
  
  Now, onto the gameplay elements of the game. It's pretty straight-forward really, just think of 
 it as a First Person Shooter with swords, sheilds and magic. The leveling up system can be a bit 
 tedious, since it takes hours (usually literally) to level up. Also, the swimming is frustrating 
 and the third person mode is awkward. So yeah, it's hugely reccommended to play this game in first 
 person instead of third person. It's easy enough to get used to equpping weapons and armour, since 
 it's basically just like it is in most other Role Playing Games. The graphics are pretty decent, 
 although the water is nowhere near as brilliant as in other games such as BioShock or Uncharted: 
 Drake's Fortune. The music is brilliant, however, the voice acting ranges from great to downright 
 awful. Female Orcs sound like average, everyday American females, which kind of takes you out of 
 the feel of being in this big fantasy world, but it's nothing major. Oblivion is, simply put, a 
 fantastic game, although it can be boring at times (especially at the very beginning) , and it has 
 it's one or two framerate flaws, as well as some pretty bad gameplay. None of this however should 
 put you off buying it for it's hundreds of hours worth of gameplay. Great stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: merrill25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 9:03 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion defined next gen RPG's which no one has been able to follow up to. You can do just about 
 anything, steal, brake open houses, pick pocket people, become a town hero, forge weapons and my 
 favorite thing to do, explore. You can walk forever in this game, (that was the first thing I did) 
 without running into imaginary walls, (you might run into a steep cliff you have to go around though) . 
 
  
  Graphics: I was amazed on how gorgeous the graphics constantly are with all the content they stuffed 
 into the game. The graphics are truly next gen and it never gets old looking at the beautiful world.
 
  
  Gameplay: Real time combat makes every confrontation in the game interesting. The controls are 
 responsive.
  
  Value: You will play this game until you die. You can become a guild master for five guilds that 
 have tons of quests for you to do, you can explore and clear every cave, mine and forest of any 
 evil creatures, you can seal oblivion gates, master new skills, buy a house, become a champion 
 gladiator, there is also the main quest to do too.
  
  This is a must own for anyone with a PS3 because it is an amazing experience that won't let anyone 
 down, even if you aren't a RPG fan you will fall in love with Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: supa_badman
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 13, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  this is the best game i have ever played. and im not just saying that.
  the province that is cryodiil is UBER HUGE. and theres tons of caverns ruins, oblivion gates and 
 quests to prove that.
  
  the combat is a refreshing take on an rpg rather than the kind like the dragon quest series or 
 something. you can run, jump, cast spells and slash and snipe to help you kill your enemy. and 
 the 1st person view is cool too.
  
  the envrioment is nothing like i have ever seen. of course its not the best looking game you'll 
 find on the ps3 (uncharted: drakes fortune) . but it still looks nice.
  
  the story line is a little cliche but its still a rather well put together and had some thought 
 put into it. and theres tons of other quests that are basically a whole other game on its own. guild 
 quests or helping random people in town, theres lots to do. the knights of the nine quest is a 
 nice addition as well. 
  
  theres something called the fame/infamy point system but it doesnt really affect the game in any 
 significant way so you dont really have to pay much attention to it. unless your a goodie goodie 
 and stay clean. or you're an evil villan and kill everyone in your sight gta style. the people 
 dont respwan either so be careful on who or what you kill during your time in tamriel.
  
  i have played hours and hours on end with this game. it sucks you in. proceed in to the super awesome 
 game with caution. it might be a long time before you come out of it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamyvabam123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 11, 2008 8:00 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is an amazing game that will impress you in almost everyway. Whether 
 if its the graphics, reallistic physics, and content. This game starts with a character that you 
 create and is jailed while the emperor tells you that you are an important person. I really don't 
 want to spoil this game for you so thats all i can tell you about the story. But i can say that 
 this game has a great story, whether it's the main quest or sides quests, you will easilly get 
 in to it and will want to play untill it all ends. This game has a main quest that is around 30 
 hours long depending on how long you play, and 200+ hours if you are interested in leveling up 
 and just simply doing side quests. The new level up system is quite different than those other 
 rpg games, and there more advantages for you. This game has Amazing graphics but the framerate 
 sometimes drops depending on how much action is going on, and the backround objects pop up as you 
 travel. This game has a great draw distance and everything you see, you are able to go. And the 
 map is huge too. This game is like one of those games that when you are tired of real life, you 
 play this game for hours, there are contents such as you can buy a house, own a horse, and much 
 more. So this game overall is a fantastic that will keep you in your place for hours and hours 
 untill someone spanks you.
  
  This game is rated by the following:
  
  Graphics: 9.5 / 10 - Beautiful, everything is polished and looks touchable.
  Sound: 10 / 10 - 
 Beautifull music and game sound that will amaze you.
  Value: 10 / 10 - There are enormous amount of content, lets just leave it that way.
  Gameplay: 
 8.5 / 10 - Great gameplay but it could have been better.
  
  Total: 9.5 / 10 - Superb! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persia316
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Do you remember watchin Lamb Chop & singing "This is the song that doesn't end" well that is how 
 Oblivion is. I've spent about 50 hours & still haven't finished, I dont even have the expantion 
 pack. I didn't like Eler Scrolls 3 for xbox or PC but Elder Scrolls IV is un beleavable. The world 
 is alive & you get so into this game that it feels like an alternate world to visit. The combat 
 is better this time cause you feel you're sword bounce off an enemy's sheld of the impact on you're 
 steal blade across an enemy's fleash. So many thinga to do that you will spend hours doing side 
 quests be for you realized OMG I forgot my main quest. If RPG is you're thing then I know you have 
 Oblivion but if not hurry cause you can't rally find this game that easy. Best RPG I've played 
 since all the Shin Megami Tense like Nocturne & Persona. Oblivion a must have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: killzone_gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 9, 2008 4:16 am PT
Review:  Where on Earth should i start with this incredible game?
  Or should that be where on Cyrodill?
  This is the biggest, longest game i've ever played.
  
 
  Ok, so lets start with the Story. That should fill up some space...
  You start out in a prison, in Imperial City, the largest city in the game. The Emporer of Cyrodill 
 (Emporer Tiber Septim) enters your cell and says that he has seen you in his dream. You then follow 
 him and his guards into some underground caves, at which point, sadly, the Emporer dies. 
  You are entrusted with his Amulet, and the game begins proper. It's only when you exit the dark, 
 dank sewers that you can really appreciate the level of graphical detail Bethesda have achieved, 
 as the bright view of the outside world really takes you by suprise. 
  The main quest is then in your inventory, and off you go. The sheer amount of quests is hard to 
 coprehend. Go up to any one of the people that you find dotted around Cyrodill and you will almost 
 certainly find that they have an intresting story of hardship to help out with.
  Then there are Guilds. Guilds are places that you can go to train, be taugh about certain things, 
 and gain a higher rank in that guild. 
  Some of them pay out, and one of the most intresting is the Dark Brotherhood. This is basically 
 a place you go if you need someone knocked off. And guess who knocks them off? You start out a 
 lowly "Murderer" but as you climb the ranks, an incredible and gripping twist unravvels...
  There is not enough space in the review box to talk about everything that this game has to offer, 
 the only thing left for me to say is that it is the most complete, overwhelming game i have ever, 
 and possible will ever play.
  Do'nt even think about not buying it. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: codalloo
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 29, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is awesome to say the least, the lush environments excellent character animations and 
 exciting gameplay overall makes Oblivion a game that shouldn't be missed by any fans of free-roaming 
 RPG's. In the beginning you are offered a variety of classes with a multitude of different abilities 
 unique to the specific class and race, on the first mission you are given the chance to experiment 
 with your character, and if you don't like it then you can change it. Creating your character is 
 a fun experience with a plethora of options, and the possibilities are truly endless. The combat 
 is fun and engaging and isn't too hard to get used to, and even if you find the game too hard, 
 you can change the difficulty in-game with the difficulty slider. Casting spells is especially 
 fun and the level system is brilliantly executed. This game offers an amazing experience, you can 
 play the main quest at your own pace, play through a slew of intriguing side quests or just go 
 for a relaxing stroll through the game's many forests and hunt. Oblivion is an jaw-dropping game, 
 from the great story, to the even better gameplay, Oblivion is a game that should not be missed. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xepheon
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:24 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has been around for a while now. Chances are that you've played it, and if you haven't, 
 the bottom line is that you should because it's an experience unparalelled by any other game out 
 there.
  
  Oblivion's main story centers around an emperor whose heritage is unique in that he shares the 
 blood of ancient dragons. While this notion sounds exciting, the only thing the emperor has to 
 show for his special heritage is a big, juicy red amulet imbued with special powers (and the voice 
 of Captain Picard) . Put simply, the amulet causes magical dragonfires to ignite. The dragonfires 
 act as a sort of perpetual bug repellant against the denizens of an evil realm (known as the Daedra) , 
 who cannot enter your world as long as the dragonfires are burning. However, only those of the 
 emperor's bloodline can activate the amulet. That's unfortunate, because a Daedra worshipping cult 
 decides they want to the Daedra to enter the world and hang out with them... so they promptly murder 
 the emperor and his sons. Well, they murder his legitimate sons, anyway. You end up with the amulet 
 and the knowledge of the emperor's last, secret son, and you're on your way.
  
  Perhaps the biggest gripe I have about this game is that the main quest is extremely dull compared 
 to the side quest. The Daedra invade the world, but the effect is largely unnoticable save for 
 a few instances, such as a kingdom that gets destroyed by the evil creatures. The presence of the 
 Daedra is otherwise signified by fiery portals that appear throughout the land. You can enter these 
 portals, infiltrate their "base", and shut down each portal. This is exciting at first, as the 
 Daedric realm is a vivid, freaky, burning place full of merciless atrocities. However, you soon 
 discover that each portal is just a slightly different version of the last, and that your entire 
 battle against the Daedra consists of going in one portal after another. There are no bosses or 
 mini-bosses, no big surprises, just the same enemies over and over. This can get repetitive quickly 
 and is a large disappointment, although the game picks up at the end and gets a lot more interesting. 
 Fortunately, that's only the main quest.
  
  The real substance of Oblivion comes from the side quests, some of which are actually somewhat 
 epic. In Oblivion, you are free to do as you please, and what's more, there is something big in 
 store for every kind of character, whether you're a lawful crusader or a psychotic killer. It's 
 a shame that the most thrilling content is divulged far from the main quest (and there are some 
 things you'll never forget, such as the Dark Brotherhood) , but it's great that the game encourages 
 you to explore in this way.
  
  As deep as the game can get sometimes, much of the human interaction has an unremarkable sensation. 
 This is mostly due to the bland nature of the people you meet. Their voice acting is done by only 
 a few actors, so many of the people have a common, generic personality. What's worse is that everyone 
 in the game has a very narrow range of emotional expression. This might hinder you from caring 
 about these people or feeling a sense of urgency to help them. The Daedric warriors and sorcerors 
 seem to be the most passionate, most alive characters in the game, as they truly sound outraged 
 at your presence ("burst, bloodsack!") and definitely look angry. Everyone else is largely forgettable. 
 If the developers had created a more tangible world of emotion, such as that found in Half-Life 
 2, Oblivion would be almost twice as great.
  
  All that aside, Oblivion can provide adventure and excitement for an unlimited amount of hours. 
 Aside from the fact that you can keep playing after you beat the game, there world is so vast and 
 so full of places to discover, achievements to make, and things to try, it could easily keep you 
 occupied over the course of years. I have owned Oblivion on PC for a few years and I have yet to 
 try becoming a vampire. I got the PS3 version because it's guaranteed to run smoothly, looks way 
 better than on my PC, and the PS3 itself costs less than the graphics card I would need to run 
 Oblivion well on my PC.
  
  The world of Oblivion ranges from snow capped mountains to thick forests and rivers and islands. 
 And then there's ancient ruins, dungeons, caves, mines, sunken ships, and fortresses, to name a 
 few. All of this is presented with refreshing geographical realism, so a cave is no longer just 
 a standard size tunnel with a few textures applied, but a dipping, weaving, rocky, stalagmite filled, 
 unpredictable, photorealistic cave with fissures and various depths. Forests are deep and deer 
 can be found running through. If you climb to the top of a mountain and watch the sunset, you might 
 actually want to take a picture of it and put it on your wall. Due to the realism, it tends to 
 make delving into ruins and caves a very spooky (even scary) experience.
  
  Battles in Oblivion are equally impressive, and you'll really feel like you're there. Swords clash, 
 weapons thunk heavily against raised shields, blood flies and smears on your weapon, and different 
 weapons produce different results, such as the way a two handed axe seems to crush when it hits, 
 sending up a thick spray of blood. Magic effects are well done, though not particularly special. 
 Enemy deaths aren't as impressive, aside from the blows that send them flying through the air; 
 when anything dies, its body acts like a floppy ragdoll, which takes away from the realism. In 
 any case, the battles are intense and could even be described as exasperating sometimes.
  
  Of course, you can also choose to play a stealthy character, and your battles might be less drawn 
 out and more a matter of assaulting your enemy with a few critical damage arrows. Or you might 
 sneak past your enemies entirely.
  
  Which brings us to another high point in Oblivion: character customization. This is some of the 
 most in depth customization in any game. You can tweak your character's face in areas that you 
 didn't even know the word for. As a result, no matter what ethnicity you are, you can probably 
 make a character that looks just like you. My first character looked like a CGI version of me, 
 which added a lot of value to the game.
  
  You can also choose from a large variety of classes, or make your own. Also, there are no experience 
 points for killing things. You get better at a thing simply by doing it. You want to run faster? 
 Then go running, or swimming, to build your athletics skill. Sneak behind anyone to improve sneaking. 
 Use a sword to improve your blade skill.
  
  In conclusion, Oblivion is a game that should be experienced by all gamers, and while not without 
 its flaws, has a tremendous amount to offer. And lots of replay value!
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: -shmelo-
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 17, 2008 2:19 pm PT
Review:  Under the assumption that whoever reads this is a fan of role-playing and probably has delved into 
 an MMO, I'm going to be brutal. Oblivion is not online, and that sort of hurts the game in a strange 
 unintended way.
  
  The emperor is dead and evil is entering the world through magical gates. You must secure the heirs 
 place on the thrown and close the gates, of Oblivion. Thats the main quests story, theres all kinds 
 of other quests to do.
  
  There is so much customization and things to do in the game, yet some of things seem incomplete 
 and the problem is, as cool as your hero gets, no one can compliment how cool he/she is. You could 
 have all the houses, but there isn't much to do in them, and you can't invite friends over.
  
  However I must say, the sheer size of the game along with the fantastic visuals gives no excuse 
 to any crappy looking game. This game is stunning, amazing textures and fast loading times, the 
 forests and buildings all look seamless and gorgeous.
  
  As good as the visuals are, animation could use some touching up. Very stiff movements, and when 
 you jump he has this single jump stance that when in 3rd person looks retarded.
  
  Combat is fun, swinging weapons shooting arrows and spells is pretty cool, blood effects and explosive 
 magical effects are great too.
  
  You'll want to fight in 1st person all the time, sometimes when walking around go into 3rd person 
 and I really like that feature. The thing about all your freedom is, they could've thought some 
 things over a little more. When stealing and committing murder, it doesn't matter if you get caught 
 they always know you did it. Heres what I mean, you can sneak into someones house and kill them 
 in their sleep, no guard was there, no one at all saw what you did. But as soon as a guard sees 
 you after the crime, he knows you did it. You always are going to be punished, and it takes pretty 
 much all the fun away with a justice system that good, yet they can't close a gate by themselves.
 
  
  You are the only person with half a brain, able to close gates. I do like how sometimes guards 
 come in with you to help, adds more realism to the game.
  
  The music is good, very well produced but there is something strange about the voice acting. Its 
 the same voice actor for every person in Cyrodil. They all sound alike, they got one male and one 
 female voice actor to do everyone.
  
  The towns all have a different look in architecture, but generally the same purpose as each other.
 
  
  Another strange thing is, there are no children. Now they wouldn't be important I understand but 
 what about the aesthetics of the virtual world?
  
  Of course I'm reviewing this game, and I prefer to analyze games when reviewing and not just get 
 all googley over them. I still love walking around slashing things and exploring dungeons which 
 are fun. The only thing is if you do look into the game with a more deep analytical view, you'll 
 notice the aesthetic obscurities. Lots to do and explore, I was able to pick up the game used for 
 30 bucks, of course theres the game of the year edition out now with the expansion, but I don't 
 think you'll get through all the content in the original. You'd get too bored after a while.
  
  This is one of the finer games ever made from top to bottom the development team has put a 
 lot of effort into the game, I recommend anyone who can play it, get it.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarletlvswayne
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 14, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls 3 Morrowind for the XBOX, was the first game of the Elder Scrolls series that 
 I played. I fell in love with it, so when I saw that there was another one out on the PS3 I was 
 totally thrilled! As soon as I started playing the game, I was completely taken by the vast scenery 
 that this game has to offer. You can be a number of characters, man or woman, and be good or evil. 
 I mean, the possibilities are totally endless here. The game play is really cool because you can 
 chose your difficulty setting from really easy, to really really hard... during the game even! Of 
 course, I personally love a good challenge, so I kept it a little above the middle. This game is 
 a time consuming game because of all the side quests along with the main quest. So, it's really 
 easy to get side tracked when you have a woman running screaming at you to help her try and find 
 her lost husband! The combat is pretty good but nothing exceptional. There are several forms of 
 combat here including magic and blunt weapons like maces and war hammers. All in all, it's a really 
 fun game if your an RPG fan! There is just so much you can do in this game, there isn't enough 
 space here to tell it all! Great game~ Scarlett
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jon_Sly
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 11, 2008 9:33 am PT
Review:  Oblivion for the PS3
  
  Gameplay- 9/10 x3
  Graphics- 9/10 x2
  Sound- 10/10 x2
  Storyline- 10/10 x2
  Extra's and Replay Value- 10/10 x2
  
  This game is just insane and huge! 
 You start the game by picking a race and almost anything on there face is your choice sadly no 
 body measurements lmao just joking but that would be funny. Anyway after you pick a race and gender 
 and blah blah blah you are in prision for who knows why and honest you never do find out why!?!?! 
 The game tosses you in a huge world to explore and adds so many quest to point a finger at. The 
 world is wonderful and voices are amazing. The gameplay is simple yet complex at the same time 
 making you choose on which way you wanna go from a mage to a knight its your choice all in the 
 end. If you are even thinking of getting this game just watch the video review for all the answers 
 and at the end you know you will want to try it out! 
  
  Overall- 95/100 Gamespot 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fightgar
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 10, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  the world is so big i usually get side tracked from the missions and just wander around..... ive 
 had the game for about a year and have only done a hand full of missions...... walking out into 
 the forest to explore is so much fun
  
  the one thing that surprised me was a few hours into the game i pissed off some guard and he started 
 chasing me on his horse..... a few days later and a bunch of hours more into the game i was wandering 
 around just walking down one of the roads and that same freakin guard was still lookin for  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 6, 2008 7:33 am PT
Review:  My friend got this game on 360 and although I really liked the story and the game play, I kept 
 getting annoyed with the loading everywhere you go. I understood that the world was huge, but it 
 just bugged me. We the PS3 version came out, thank god they fixed that. The PS3 version is significantly 
 better, with sharper graphics, and a longer site distance. I have to say the soundtrack is perfect 
 for this game. it is so peaceful that I turn it up so I can just listen to it. It can get extremely 
 scary at times, especially when you are in a cave and these creatures are coming at you. My favorite 
 part of this game is just the fact that you can do anything you want. You can choose to be a good 
 guy are a bad guy, you can pick you skills and attributes. I like to just explore myself and go 
 anywhere I want. If you are in to RPG's, this is probably the best one I can think of. Go get it, 
 it's amazing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:41 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantasy-based role-playing adventure game and an example open-ender or sandbox gameplay. 
 The main quest may be delayed or completely ignored as the player explores the expansive game world, 
 following side quests, interacting with NPCs, and developing a character according to their taste. 
 The player is free to go anywhere inside the land of Cyrodiil at any time while playing the game, 
 and even after completing the main quest storyline the game never ends, allowing the player to 
 build their character in whatever way they want, with no restrictions on skills or equipment. The 
 game contains many enemies for the player to fight, including monsters and animals. Many enemies, 
 quests, and treasures are "leveled", or become increasingly difficult, as the player gains levels. 
 The player, however, has the option of adjusting the difficulty level. The fact of you can go anywhere, 
 join guilds, level your self up, practice and your own skills and although I didnt play the rest 
 of the sequel, I wouldn't say that you wouldnt understand this game, but it will help a little if 
 you did play the other Elder Scrolls gam, I think... By The way, BUY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RPGCal
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 29, 2008 6:12 am PT
Review:  This game, I just cant even begin to say how well it was made. You can play however, whenever, 
 and wherever you want. You know how gaming companies are always saying that they have "Open World 
 Gameplay" and they really don't, well that is NOT what Oblivion is. It has forts, caves, cities, 
 and much more just for you to explore. You can join into guilds and just complete the main quest, 
 there is so many possibilities. The name Oblivion comes from the hell-like world in the game. You 
 will have to close portals all around Cirodiil to gain your fame. The graphics are amazing along 
 with how much gameplay there is. I have played around 250 hours and im still playing AND enjoying 
 it. This is, by far, the best role-playing game around. You just cant beat it. The only thing that 
 I do not like about this game is that sometimes the loading times are a bit long. You can find 
 out about people's lives and maybe there is something they are having a problem with. 
  
  As i said this is the most AMAZING game out there and you definently should buy it! :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JB2114ATHOL
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:02 pm PT
Review:  Have you ever felt the urge to hurl fireballs? Swing a hefty claymore? Get into fist fights with 
 random passer by's? Go bear hunting with a bow? Or take on, and affect, the course of history in 
 profound ways? The cure for your affliction is simple - TES4: Oblivion and your PS3. Oblivion is 
 set in the fantasy kingdom of Cyrodiil where a sinister plot is underway to kill the Emperor Uriel 
 Septim and his descendants in order to plunge the world into total darkness by opening gates into 
 the demonic realm of oblivion. 
  Not that you have to do it, though, because oblivion has enough side quests to keep you busy for 
 as long as you feel like it. Speaking of long,
  oblivion can easily keep you playing for hundreds of hours with one of the most expansive and open 
 ended environments you will likely traverse in a game. If this sounds too repetitive that's because 
 the game is simply too large of scope to be summarized into a few paragraphs and regardless of 
 any negative comments you may have heard this is the pinnacle of fantasy action adventure games 
 and should not be missed by anyone who likes good games 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raftel
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 28, 2008 2:02 am PT
Review:  i used to have a friend who stopped going to the university for a couple of weeks to play the game 
 on his computer. i used to make fun of him, thinking "whoa, he really is a nerd!"
  that still may be, but the fact is that now i understand him. i really do!
  
  the game opens 
 on a short tutorial (probably is the weakest part of the game in all ways you see it: tutorial 
 too short, and... well, the king has to go inside a cell, and entrust a commun someone that was 
 there, i'd like to know why, with the future of the entire kingdom. and when the guards come and 
 see you with the royal ring and the body of the killed king at your feet, the buy your version, 
 trusting your word. maybe it's a little too much, but the intro is the only 'weak spot' in the 
 game.) .
  whe you break free from the prison, there the real new life starts
  
  you can virtually do everything, and make any kind of character (i like wizards, but there are 
 loads of races and of classes, so you can feel free to pick your own one) , and you can model your 
 character as you wish. it' simply sweet.
  
  the graphic is amazing, slightly better than the pc and with shorter loadings.
  i could only 
 find a bug: sometimes, in the open, some animal 'skip' some frame. just imagine a black bear in 
 front of you: next moment is behind you. 
  
  voices are all well done, but there is a bug. sometimes voices don't come off. how can i say: you 
 read what they are saying, but there is no voice. 
  i can't say for sure if it is because the ps3 after a while has some problem, or because of the 
 game, but i'm for the latter.
  
  you can virtually make any kind of character, even a orc -arcane wizard. it isn't that smart, but 
 you can do it, if you wish.
  every race is really different one from the other.
  
  the leveling system is great: you have major and minor ability: the majors will grow faster, and 
 will make you level up, the minors are just good to have. when you level, you get stronger twice: 
 once because of the level, and the second time because you trained, for instance, sword. really 
 sweet!
  
  there is another bug, in a mission of two girls. check on internet or avoid that mission or else 
 you'll get stuck!
  
  there are no major bugs, and it is an experience of life.
  also it is a great game to test your new ps3s on.
  have fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-PS3-fan89
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2008 3:33 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was an amazing game and continues to be, even after I beat the game 
 multiple times with multiple characters. In brief this game was graphically appealing, engaging 
 and satisfying. I found myself in a world of adventure that continued to be exhilarating and never 
 got boring. 
  
  Graphics 9.5/10: The world of Oblivion takes place in the Province of Cyradel, a stunning world 
 full of monsters from the gates of Oblivion, another world full of bloodthirsty monsters. However, 
 there are better graphics then the graphics that Oblivion provided. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The gameplay was engaging behind a first person view point. I found the third person 
 option less appealing. I also found the game interface complicated at times as it took time to 
 get used to.
  
  Storyline 8/10: If there was one thing that Oblivion lacked was a storyline. Nonetheless, it did 
 have an attractive story but there were few cut scenes, possibly one major cut scene. Basically 
 the story revolved around closing the gates of Oblivion. However, there were numerous side quests 
 (over 100 quests) that probably take over 300 hours to complete. 
  
  Overall 9/10: This game was a massive RPG that continues to entertain you, even after you beat 
 the game. The world is stunning and is one of the best aspects of the game. Oblivion 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamfaqs2gamfaqs
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 3:42 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion was an amazing game and continues to be, even after I beat the game 
 multiple times with multiple characters. In brief this game was graphically appealing, engaging 
 and satisfying. I found myself in a world of adventure that continued to be exhilarating and never 
 got boring. 
  
  Graphics 9.5/10: The world of Oblivion takes place in the Province of Cyradel, a stunning world 
 full of monsters from the gates of Oblivion, another world full of bloodthirsty monsters. However, 
 there are better graphics then the graphics that Oblivion provided. 
  
  Gameplay 9/10: The gameplay was engaging behind a first person view point. I found the third person 
 option less appealing. I also found the game interface complicated at times as it took time to 
 get used to.
  
  Storyline 8/10: If there was one thing that Oblivion lacked was a storyline. Nonetheless, it did 
 have an attractive story but there were few cut scenes, possibly one major cut scene. Basically 
 the story revolved around closing the gates of Oblivion. However, there were numerous side quests 
 (over 100 quests) that probably take over 300 hours to complete. 
  
  Overall 9/10: This game was a massive RPG that continues to entertain you, even after you beat 
 the game. The world is stunning and is one of the best aspects of the game. Oblivion also provides 
 many hours of gameplay that never gets boring. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: insomnia37
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:33 am PT
Review:  An rpg with a large world to explore, lots of things to do and people to talk to. What more can 
 an RPG fan ask for!
  
  Visually this game is just stunning. There were lots of times where I would be exploring and find 
 myself just looking around the game world admiring the graphics and detail of this game. This game 
 has lots and lots of content for you to explore. I loved that fact in this game what ever equipment 
 you put on your character it appears on him or her. 
  I love that fact the dev team made sure there was lots of customization such as your character, 
 spells, potions and enchantments. 
  
  With all the detail that was put in the game I feel there were some very important features that 
 were left out.
  
  1. Stealth: You can do stealth kills but no stealth kill animation is seen to make all the sneaking 
 rewarding. Instead you just text at the top of the screen indicating 6x damage. Theres nothing 
 wrong with that bonus damage but if the attack was strong enough to kill the enemy instantly we 
 should have been rewarded with a stealth kill animation ie TENCHU.
  
  2. Magic: The magic especially the destruction spells were lame in appearance. Regardless of the 
 strength of the spell they all looked the same!!
  
  3. Crime and punishment: What to get away with murder? Well not in cyradill!! I have killed people 
 in the middle of the night behind a building and every guard in the world knew it was me!!! 
  
  4. Leveling up: The max level is 100. Personally after reaching level 20 and getting all the 
 best armor and weapons, I felt there was no reason for me to spend hours leveling up. To me it 
 didn't feel rewarding b/c in reality after level 20 all that happens is that some numbers in your 
 profile go up. Previous RPG's that I played I would spend hours trying to level up so I could gain 
 a new amazing attack and/or spell. That was not the case here.
  
  It seems I had lots to complain about this game, but overall I found myself playing this game for 
 hours. My biggest disappointment would be in the unrewarding leveling up. But since playing this 
 game I have been a fan of the dev company and I am looking forward to Fallout 3 & hopefully ES: V 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowLaguna
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 22, 2008 1:04 am PT
Review:  Introduction
  After originally released for the PC and 360, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion sucks PS3 gamers into 
 what they call Oblivion. It's an RPG made in America and is probably the best Non-Japanese RPG 
 i've played in a long time. Being a previous fan of Diablo, Oblivion does bring back some classic 
 moments from it. Although I shouldn't really be comparing it to Diablo as it is a hell of a lot 
 different than that. I may not be a Japanese RPG, but that doesn't really matter. Oblivion is still 
 a wonderful, huge adventure that many need to explore. This is a spoiler-free review so anyone 
 who hasn't even heard of this game can read this.
  
  THE GOOD
  Highy realistic, A huge adventure, A lot of choice, A beautiful looking game, PS3 version contains 
 Knights of the Nine.
  
  THE BAD
  Not so easy to find your way through main quests.
  
  Graphics
  The graphics are really good, but to be quite honest I really don't think it's fully 
 PS3 Quality. They are really good though. I understand that some people find the graphics perfect, 
 but I find them a bit overrated. Sure, for PC they're quite alright but I think they could've put 
 a bit more effort into the console versions. Although I ain't one for graphics, so I guess you 
 could say i'm all good with them.
  
  Sound
  It has it's ups and downs, whether it's music or voices. Good thing about voices is that every 
 single character in Oblivion has a voice (talk about effort) , not the best but still nicely done. 
 The music I find repetitive sorta but again, it's still pretty good otherwise. Sound effects are 
 good, very realistic and again, nicely done.
  
  Gameplay
  Oblivion is rather different to many previous RPGs in the past. For those of you who aren't familiar 
 with the Elder Scrolls series such as myself, it's a First-Person Action RPG. Meaning that you 
 run around killing things and doing quests in this huge fantasy world in first-person. However, 
 there is and option to change it into Third-Person, but I do not recommend it as it looks pretty 
 bad. At the beginning of the game, you need to describe the details of your character that you'll 
 be playing through a big adventure with. You can change the details of their hair, face... even 
 age. You also select their race and their Class. Cool thing is, you can make your own class which 
 I recommend. Of course you can Level up by training your more important stats plus you can train 
 other stats as well like Athletics and Acrobatics. There are a lot of quests in Oblivion, some 
 of them require crawling through a load of dungeons and taking some special item to an important 
 emperor of some sort. I might as well talk about the realism of the game. Oblvion is very realistic. 
 I have a good example. Don't try and rob peoples' houses, you have been warned. The guards will 
 come after you and you can't get rid of them very easily unfortunately. I've learnt my lesson. 
 Another example being "Over-Encumbered". If you have too many items in your pack and get this state, 
 get rid of unwanted items. You won't be able to move otherwise. There are also a lot of different 
 items in the game including weapons, armour and random items that remain useless and you just don't 
 pick up. Oblivion also has that Medieval look to it so you'll most likely enjoy that. Overall, 
 the gameplay in Oblivion is very well done and it's very, very long.
  
  Storyline
  Although it is set after the previous Elder Scrolls games chronologically, the game is not a direct 
 sequel to The Elder Scrolls III: Morrowind or any other game. Oblivion begins with the arrival 
 of Emperor Uriel Septim VII, accompanied by a troupe of Blades bodyguards, at the Imperial City 
 prison, seeking to flee from a group of assassins-later revealed to be members of the Mythic Dawn-through 
 a secret underground exit in the city sewers. By chance, the exit is located in the cell occupied 
 by the protagonist. The Emperor frees the player as he believes that he saw the character in his 
 dreams, and sets off into the catacombs as the protagonist follows. At the end of the catacombs, 
 the group is ambushed, and quickly overwhelmed by assassins, which results in the protagonist taking 
 on the task of guarding the Emperor while the surviving bodyguards engage the enemy. While awaiting 
 the result, Uriel entrusts the protagonist with the Amulet of Kings, a special amulet that can 
 only be worn by those of the Septim bloodline, and orders the player to take it to a man named 
 Jauffre. Immediately afterwards, an assassin ambushes and kills the emperor before he is, in turn, 
 defeated. The sole surviving guard, Baurus, questions the protagonist, and explains that Jauffre 
 is the Grandmaster of the Blades, and can be found at Weynon Priory. I've heard better stories 
 in RPGs but Oblivion's has a whole load of quests anyway so never mind.
  
  Overall
  Even if you have never touched an Elder Scrolls game before, Oblivion is pure brilliance! It is 
 simply addictive and amazing! It's a big game too! Even if you don't like Non-Japanese RPGs, this 
 is well worth it! Welcome to Oblivion!!
  9.5/10
  
  MUST BUY!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KS_Oblivion
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  Considering this was one of the first big games on PS3 it was very well made, you could play 50+ 
 hours without getting into the main storyline! If they made an Elder Scrolls V I'd be one of the 
 first people in line to purchase it. The graphics are beutiful especially on 1080p for the PS3, 
 the controls are simple to catch on to, and the difficulty can be so precise to match how hard 
 you want the game to be. The customization is almost limitless in the armor, race, and the attributes 
 (which are the most customizable) , even the weapons are able to be customed to your suiting with 
 special power ups that you can aquire from closing a Oblivion Gate.
  Which leads to another thing, there are two very different realms in Elder Scrolls IV, there is 
 the "human" like world, similar to mideval earth, then there are gates that teleport you to a world 
 almost opposite. Oblivion, a dimension that is main in the game, where you can find most of the 
 challenging monsters and some of the best treasures. Overall I am very happy with how this game 
 has turned out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GravutyBomber
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 20, 2008 4:01 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: This game has only few glitches and will keep you interested for 200+ hours guaranteed! 
 with plenty of quests, NPCs, and Fights + etc. to keep you interested. You could quite possibly 
 become obsessed, miss work, and stay at home and play until it destroys your life, but its okay 
 because you'll have Oblivion to play! This game is sure to Bring life back to single player Off-line 
 RPGs.
  
  Graphics: The Graphics are tremendous especially on ps3, although the pc version is better depending 
 on what card + specs you have. HD components, are needed if you want the full graphical experiences 
 otherwise it will look like a lovely looking ps2 game.
  
  Controls: acts like a PS first person shooter game basically , Standard R1 to attack, Triangle 
 to jump, and etc.
  
  
  Package: I love that its comes with Knight of the Nines expansion built into the game (even though 
 it took awhile to figure out lol) and it gives a good description on everything needed to know 
 in the instruction manual.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mythicfiredark
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 16, 2008 4:05 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls 4 Oblivion is hands down best PS3 game of the year and it's so addictive. I just 
 can't get enough of the Daedric Shrine quests, Dark Brotherhood and Fighters guild quests. The 
 combat system is good and so are the skills so here is my favourite lot of major skills blade, 
 alchemy, destruction, light armour, security, mercntile, speechcraft and armourer.
  The quests are good, I like exploring caves and the ideas are great. The graphics are cool and 
 should be repeatted by stuff like runescape. The sounds are awsome and the game is faultess. Now 
 lets talk about the tutorial you stuck in the prison and the emperor and his blades come. You get 
 let out but the emperoer gives the amulet of kings and then gets killed. The glitches rock and 
 you should look at glitches before you start playing.
  Gameplay: 10/10
  Grapcis:10/10
  Sound:10/10
  Value: 10/10
  Tilt: 101/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: weddlecm
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 14, 2008 3:39 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion. I have never played such a game that has endless fun filled gameplay that will have you 
 entertained for hours... and when I mean hours I mean a long time. This game has a fantastic storyline 
 and unbelieveable custom things you can do. Creat your own guy, ride horses, fight, it's pretty 
 much endless. You can choose from a wide verity of weapons and potions you will be satified. Anyways, 
 this game is also so good because of the graphics. Probably one of the best you will see on the 
 Ps3. Not nesserly the characters, but the scenic view is eye candy that you will adore for as long 
 as you play the game. The only reason I didn't rate this game a ten because if has some bugs, but 
 not much. If your looking for a game that will keep you accupied for hours using swords and potions, 
 you should get this game. Forget that, just GET the game, haha. Anyways, I would reccamend this 
 game for a higher audience and those seeking adventure. Thanks Oblivion for such a game worth money. 
 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pepper_Brooks
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Eventually exploring a huge expansive world, hunting deer and sneaking up on orks to kill with 
 a bow and arrow silently with the deft of an expert, reaping great rewards (mostly selfish to be 
 honest :D) .
  
  Before buying the game I had many reservations, mostly will it really be as good as everyone says?! 
 My initial thoughts would be of running around hack and slash and no real story line in between. 
 After playing, however, this is most certainly not the case. Maybe the Game of the Year edition 
 adds too all the greatness, no idea, but never the less a game of depth.
  
  Because Im not much of a fantasy RPG player (despite loving FF series from VII onwards and Zelda 
 on Nintendo) my age has drawn me away from these type of games onto more realistic shoot in the 
 face! tactics gameplay (some sarcasm involved) . This has a lot to do with the fact I don't want 
 to spend 5 hours perfecting my character to be the best it can, I just want to get out there and 
 kick a demon in the eye. Therefore the levelling system of this game is great and rewards you no 
 matter what style of game you play especially if you make the right choices to begin with (which 
 can be changed before leaving the sewers/underground tunnel, whatever it is) .
  
  I haven't got too far through the game but there are so many side missions as well as the main 
 course of the story, you are unlikely to get bored. Ive solved murder mysteries as well as dispatching 
 unwanted orcs. 
  
  Please I beg you, if you have any interest in this game, buy/borrow/rent this excellent experience. 
 Worth every penny. 
  
  p. s. for the game of the year edition, having not played the original no idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2008 3:05 pm PT
Review:  Its like, there is just so much to do!! realy, there is like soo much!!!
  
  Right, for those who belive RPG's are dull and boring and are only for nerds with ginger afrows 
 and ware By-Fokle glasses... your wrong! Im not a huge RPG fan myself, buy Oblivion, its just amazing!!!...
 
  
  You begin the game by creating your character. This involves chosing your race. races range from 
 wood and dark elves, orks, argonians (lizzard things) imperials (the closest thing to humans) and 
 nords (not quite sure what these guys do again) . Once your race is chosen, you can edit away at 
 your characters facial features and hair style.
  
  Once your done with that, you start off in a jail cell with a minit' or so to get used to the controls. 
 Then the so calle emperor of Cyrodiil (the land in which you live) come up to you with his guards 
 and relise you through a secret passage in the cell.
  Then you get a nice lenghth tutorial explaining how it all works. Once your done with the tutorial, 
 its ENTIRLY up to you what to do next, realy, it is!
  
  There are no set guidelines on when your ment to do stuff. If you wanted, you could just wonder 
 around for hours on end.
  Obviously, there are little markers on the map to show you where to go if you want to do some missions 
 but even then, they arn't like "MISSION 1. GO HEAR AND DO THIS!" its more like, right, your hear 
 now, i would like you to go hear in your own time and try and do this".
  
  The main story missions are optional, they will always be there untill you feel you want a crack 
 at em but if you would just rather do your own thing, that totaly fine!
  A second option with missions is, find you own!
  For example, there are guilds and "cult" like 
 groups like the theves guild and the dark brotherhood as 2 out of many examples.
  With these, eather you go to a guild (say the fighters guild) and sign up and begin yet more optional 
 missions and side quests.
  
  A third option is descovering places such as abandoned mines, caves and stuff liek that filled 
 with goblins, gremlins and hidden treasure... WoOoOoO!!!
  A forth and final option is talknig tp local villagers and towns folk and quiz them about what 
 the have herds going down... in da town!
  
  Anyway, i could go on for hours about this but im goig to stop hear, im just gonig to say that 
 you NEED this game!
  Its not to hard thanks to a system that gradualy eases you in depending on how experiensed you 
 are and if you only get 1 PS3 game this year, make sure its OBLIVION!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vendetta58
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 14, 2008 1:02 pm PT
Review:  I never give 10's. This game however in my humble opinion is the best game I have ever played. 
 The graphics are great, the action unbeleivable, and the movements and physics of the game are 
 not supposed to be this good in a video game, like when you slash a bandit and knock his shield 
 and it goes rolling down the hill on it's end like an off-centered hubcap that fell off a wheel 
 of a car.
  
  As for the storyline itself, there is always something to do in this game it seems. I have put 
 in well over 100 hours and I don't think I am even halfway done! I also just added the Shivering 
 Isles add-on so If you haven't bought this game yet, get the Game of the year edition. It's even 
 fun to make new characters and have them learn different styles of weaponry, be it a sword, a mace, 
 bow and arrow, or even your bare hands!
  
  This is the first game I have played of the Elder Scrolls series. The game makes me wonder how 
 Bethesda is going to top this game when they make a fifth installment on this series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: riku222
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 8, 2008 5:13 pm PT
Review:  This game lives on long after you finish it. If you think you've finished it after the main story, 
 you are VERY wrong. This revolutionary rpg game is jam-packed with side quests and much, MUCH more. 
 Another option to lengthen this already long lasting game would be to join brotherhoods, clubs, 
 and clans, whichever you prefer to refer it as, either way, it sure adds to this masterpiece. 
 
  Along with a long extent in game play, character custimization is extremely exellent. Pick whether 
 to be female or male. Chose a race, from human, to elf, to ork. Control every curve of skin, every 
 wrinkle, every hair. It doesn't stop there either. Would you rather be a warrior or a sorceror, 
 an assassin or a barbarian? It's all you're choice. After that, pick you're weapon: a hammer, a 
 short sword, a long sword perhaps? Choose from a supply of endless lists of weapons and even spells 
 for sorcerers. Soon after, pick that perfect piece of armor that either attracts your eye, or repels 
 your enemies.
  You can control your very own being in this amazing world around you, with beautuiful landscapes 
 and tall kingdoms with veried characteristics depending on citizens living there, or simply the 
 area's conditions. Choose whether to be a thief, an assassin, a villian, a crook, or to be the 
 hero, the legend, the savior, the guardian of peace. Or... you can be both. Be in the Dark Brotherhood 
 of skilled, cold hearted assassins and the Fighter's Guild of honest, helping, saviors of the people 
 at the same time. In this mass world of perpetual fantasy and everlasting gameplay, you find yourself 
 lost in this masterpiece without the slightest bit of boredom or lackluster moments. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PrincessSamus
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 31, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion = Time Consuming. If you value your life and loved ones ... please do not buy this game. 
 You will spend much less time with them then you already do. There is too much to do in this game. 
 if you are looking for a game that will last you endless, sleepless nights then check this game 
 out. if you dont like games that last you a long time .. then i have no idea what is wrong with 
 you. please please buy this game asap, it's also a good money saver if you are in a tight money 
 situation. as x-play would say ... a five ... out of five. as gamespot says. a perfect 10.0!!!! 
 GOOD JOB BETHESDA!! I CAN'T WAIT TILL PART 5!!! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eleementalfire
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 28, 2007 9:09 am PT
Review:  its got loads of good points to it like lets say its got lots of quest, beutiful graphics, free 
 roam and you can choose what fhiting style you want. Exept for guns you have blunt which is the 
 big guys weapon sword for the knight tipe player bow and arrows and magic of course. and the magick 
 is not just for killing you can make lights go invisible and even summen creatures.
  Thats all very nice but the fhiting style is quite primitive there just strong and slow attack 
 weak and fast and block. they have pubs which make it great but there no affect when you drink 
 and half the stuff in the game are just props. when i go in to a black smiths for instance its 
 like being in a movie.
  when it all comes to it i love this game and has lots of real life situations and lots of mythical 
 situations to if you were to play and old tipe of game sack rune scape play this exxelent game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mar_The_Great
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 27, 2007 2:43 pm PT
Review:  starting off in oblivion is a little boring, however after about 2-3 hours, the game really picks 
 up, and the further you get into the game, the more exciting it gets. 
  
  There is a massive create a character system, which after playing through the game a little, gives 
 you the option to change your character completely.
  
  As for game-play, Oblivion is unparalleled in options, as you can wield a variety of materials 
 and shapes of swords, axes, maces, daggers, bows, and shields, as well as cast a variety of spells 
 that can create armor and weapons, cast destructive fire, frost, or lighting magic or drain and 
 kill your enemies.
  
  You can also choose whether to be good or evil, aggressive or stealthily, and magical or business-like, 
 or any or all of each.
  
  The immersive quests take hours of fun, while also offering side-quests and guild missions, all 
 of which are very enjoyable.
  with infinite fun and variety, Oblivion is easily my favourite game of the year.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hengif
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 20, 2007 6:33 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an excellent game that is very pretensous.
  A scew it, this game is freaking awsome it is what i would really want in an RPG That allows you 
 to enter a second life where you can steal and murder and commit or justify any act on your behafe. 
 I always enjoyed becoming a theif and sneaking around to take what i need and escaping the guards 
 grasp undetected though the story line isn't something you'd reall ywant to follow you will get 
 much more caught up in other activities such as various guild and such. Also this game is simple 
 to play with just much of a simple point and click if your on a PC of course. If not i'd say it 
 would be a thumb and press any way the many town will catch you up like a hunter in halo. Also 
 another enjoyable aspect is when you can become a vampire or part of the Assassin's guild are also 
 othewr exciting parts and if you don't beleive me try it yourseld.
  
  From a fellow gamer
  Hengif/ Hengf 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tarugista
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:32 pm PT
Review:  After finishing Resistance fall of man and COD4, I have to buy another ps3 game because both have 
 no replay value (felt cheated actually) . Here comes Oblivion, reading the reviews as game of the 
 year and 150+ hours of game play and above average user reviews, I have to get this game to at 
 least use my expensive ps3 that is already covered with dust.
  
  Oblivion has huge map..... and thats it. Ride your horse ang gallop from countryside to countryside, 
 talk to people, do favors to get gold, kill people, talk again to another, and so on....
  
  The problem with this RPG is that you will never get emotionally involved in the game. Unlike FPS, 
 RPG games are like movies, because they have a longer gameplay, they have to inspire and touch 
 the hearts of the gamers.
  
  Remember Final Fantasy 7, when Sephiroth dropped from the clouds and killed Aeris? during that 
 cutscene, I nearly dropped my controller because of the emotional feel that struck me. I mean, 
 in Final Fantasy Series, you really feel a bond with the characters, a thing that Oblivion does 
 not have.
  
  I know that one RPG game is diffrent from another, a reviewer might say that in Oblivion you can 
 do whatever you want... really? Like what? Make custom magics? Choose race? Develop skills? Ride 
 a horse and travel around? Do side quests? Boooooorrrrinnngggg!!
  
  Dissappointed with ps3, I guess we have to wait for GTA4 and MGS4... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rstankos
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:50 pm PT
Review:  Love it! Tons of depth, gameplay, and replayability. They claim over 200 hours (should last me 
 a lot longer.) Knights of the Nine included.
  
  Always new and interesting characters, quests, and sub-quests to keep you busy. One of the harder 
 aspects of the game is deciding on race, birthsign, etc., but it won\\\\\\\'t really interfere 
 with your play. If you save at the end of the 1st pass through the dungeon (right before you leave 
 the \\\\\\\ tunnel) \\\\\\\ , you can easily create any character you find is better for your style. 
 Don\\\\\\\'t worry, it will prompt you to do so.
  
  The visuals are first-rate, as is the soundtrack and voice acting. (Patrick Stewart must be the 
 hottest voice in the biz!)
  
  If you have a PS3, you must have Oblivion! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: persiankurosh
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 13, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the best (its better say best) RPG game that comes in these years. It satisfied 
 all RPG gamers. With its awesome graphic it observed all gamers and critics. With its story it 
 engaged all players sitting in front of computer for 10 or more hours every day and its great world 
 that no one can discover it all.
  Let's start from the beginning. In most RPG games you have a few choices for your appearance but 
 Oblivion solve this problem and give the player a variety of changes to make what him/her want, 
 to make a handsome hero, an ugly monster, a fearsome orc and etc. after that you have to choose 
 your race. There are many races in oblivion that all of them have their ability and it make the 
 selection very hard.
  Now we come to the story. You are in a prison. The emperor come and get in your cell. He wants 
 to escape from your cell. There is a hidden way in the cell. He looks at you and says that he saw 
 you in his dream that you will save Cyrodil. It's better not to waste your time. At the end emperor 
 give you a necklace that you should give it too his son. Then he will die. After that you get out 
 and from there the story begin. There are two kinds of story in the game, Main story and side story. 
 Main story is about emperor and side story is about the tasks that people give you. I think assassin's 
 guild is the best side story. Oh I forgot. There are some abilities that you should choose for 
 your character and you should choose your sign of birth. It is very important what you choose because 
 they will become your main ability and you can not change them anymore. Don't be worry, you can 
 improve in other abilities.
  Graphic in oblivion is at the end. If you have 1G RAM, Geforce 7500 and a two core CPU, you will 
 see an incredible world. Unfortunately my system is 512 RAM, Geforce 5500 and Intel Celeron D 2/4 
 CPU. I can't imagine how I finished it.
  Its gameplay is very good. You have a map that allow you to fast travel to other places if there 
 is no enemy near you and you have been there before. The journal is at the best form. It has all 
 things. You have a short brief of all stories. You can choose which to follow and always know what 
 you are going to do.
  I have just described a small part of oblivion. It is much bigger, much greater. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A-l-g-r-e-n
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 12, 2007 9:41 am PT
Review:  When I first started playing Oblivion, I was like: HOLY SH*T!!! THIS IS THE GAME I'VE ALWAYS WANTED!!!! 
 You know. You're a guy who escapes from prison, you can actually BUILD tyour character in anyway 
 you want to, BUILD your own class, it's actually an awesome game. Then I go travelling through 
 the vast land of Cyrodiil, fighting elven bandits (I chose to be a human) , destroying trolls, ogres 
 and orcs, and stuff. Ad then I thought: Lemme join a guild.
  
  When I actually found a town, I asked a citizen: "Where are the Guilds?" and they said: "Yadda 
 yadda yadda.". Ok, great! Lemme do some good for Cyrodiil.
  Then I entered the fighter's guild. Completed all of the fighter's guild quests. That took me bout 
 10 hours. On that, I had killed assassins, elfs, and all the stuff and I had the coolest armor 
 imaginable. Then I knew I was already a strong guy, which let me down. To me, 10 hours would be 
 enough to get enough money to build a campsite and buy a wooden bow to hunt deers. That's what 
 I expected. But nothing's like what I wanted. You can't build a campsite, you can't ride carruages, 
 only horses, you can't have a buddy to go with you on your journey, you can't eat on a restaurant, 
 you can only eat food from your inventory, you can't take care of your health (eating right. Ex: 
 eat 50000000 boar meats at once and you will still have your perfect bodyshape) ... If you could 
 do all of that stuff, it would beat any game I had ever played... Also WHERE'S SPLITSCREEN? Has 
 anyone thought of the idea to go on this awesome RPG with a buddy????
  
  You can't attack on your horse, there's no wars, you can't protect your Cyrodiil from invaders 
 with an army... That woulda been the best thing... Actually, no. The game is WAAAAAY missing a 
 lot of things that it could offer if Bethesda took better care of it. The only vast things you 
 can do are quests. Go on a quest, kill this, kill that, done.
  
  Overall, it's a pretty good game, but there is A LOT of things missing. PC version must be better, 
 since you can download mods and stuff, but meh. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:32 am PT
Review:  This should easily make game of the year by many editors. Although this game might not be for everyone. 
 Ive been playing for around 150 game hours now and am nowhere near the end of the storyline. There 
 is just so much to do. Map is freaking HUGE, if you start on one end and walk to the other end, 
 itd take you at least an hour or 2 to just walk it, the world is 100 percent open. Ive never seen 
 a game this complex before. Although the hand to hand combat get pretty button mashy at times, 
 the magic and abilities make up for it. Probably the longest game ever made, and theres an expansion! 
 Lots of fun LOTS. I have never rated a game a 10 before, but this one is a freakin 10+. UPDATE: 
 Tooke me about 300 game hours to beat most all of the quests in the game and about 50 hours to 
 beat the shivering isles, but i didnt do EVERY quest in the isles, but i did beat knights of the 
 nine, which was really cool, but im glad i didnt pay extra money for it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oxymandias
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 11, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  A true classic doesn't come along very often.. but Elder Scroll's is certainly that.. I've clocked 
 up +300 hours of game play and I've still yet to get the Shivering Isles expansion.
  
  Immersive doesn't really describe this game there are so many sub quests thats its very easy to 
 forget about the main quest and get embroiled in guild politics or just a local errand for a farmer 
 or perhaps a minor deity might need a helping hand.
  
  Whilst the quests can be described as intelligently thought through there are a few glitches but 
 nothing that spoils the game play. Whilst Oblivion has flaws and glitches it is still a brilliant 
 game.
  
  If you enjoy RPG's and you've not yet played Oblivion Elder Scrolls than do so now its simply amazing. 
 However be prepared to say goodbye to a few hundred hours and plenty of sleep (Just doing one last 
 quest!!) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmmskater09
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 4, 2007 1:19 pm PT
Review:  this game i swear is the most addictive game. it's really fun, and it seems like it's never ending. 
 it's worth however much it costs. after you do one thing, it seems like you have to do the next 
 thing before you stop playing and it goes on all day. this game is so in depth, i doubt i'll ever 
 beat it in my life. it just gives you so much choice in everything you do, and you can get really 
 caught up in the longggg sidequests. definately worth it, you should get it.
  
  p. s.- if you have a 360 and ps3, the ps3 version had better graphics and is better. this ones better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazelnutman
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 4, 2007 3:39 pm PT
Review:  ***NOTE: this is now my new rating system. I find it to be much more informative and detailed than 
 my older and less organized ones***
  
  
  
  
  There are just not enough games like Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion these days. If you play this game 
 for just one hour, then you will be amazed at the detail and complexity of the experience. This 
 is one of those "effort games" where it seems that the developers spent thousands of hours and 
 tons of energy into making it. Effort is one thing, but does it directly relate to how fun it will 
 be? In this case, it's a positive "yes"
  
  Graphics - 8/10:
  For an early game for the 2 next-gen consoles and the PC, Oblivion is an eye appealing game. They 
 don't cover up things or supposedly create an illusion of good graphics by putting grey and brown 
 everywhere. They instead aren't afraid to show color. The mouth synching is inconsistent, either 
 being really good, or just flat out unnatural. It's not how good each object looks in the game, 
 but how the object seems so natural in the equally vibrant environment.
  
  Gameplay - 9/10:
  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a single player first-person RPG. You use R1 
 to swing your sword or use your main weapon, just like a First-Person Shooter using it to fire 
 a gun. You also use your L1 to block, corresponding to your respective hands in the game. The controls 
 are easy to pick up, but hard to master, as you'll have to quickly learn to hot-key items and spells, 
 use magic, and get to know your environment, as well as yourself.
  You start the game selecting your character's class (although you can master all the classes later 
 on) and appearance/race (as in dark elf, human, etc) . There is no way your character is going to 
 look good, as it seems that these character models are cursed to be ugly. You go through the game 
 doing either the main-story quest, or doing the smaller side-quests in between. Following RPG tradition, 
 this game requires lots of grinding and patience. But what sets this RPG apart, is the amount of 
 sheer detail in the environment. Not talking graphics, but you can virtually pick up any object 
 in the game. See a little bowl on the desk? You can pick it up and put it in your inventory if 
 you want, although it may be considered stealing. That's another thing. This game has strict laws, 
 so it may be considered a free-roaming RPG, but you can't go on a killing spree without encountering 
 nearly invincible guards, and paying a harsh fine. This takes away some fun, but it adds this realistic 
 tone into the game, and balances it nicely. Another thing you will notice is just how big the world 
 is. I'm guessing it will take you 6 real life hours to walk around the land. Luckily, there's a 
 fast-forward walking system for fast transportation. 
  I'm going to go straight to the point with the AI... They're merely just programed to do certain 
 things at certain conditions, and are completely predictable.
  With such a large game, you're going to run into some pacing problems, which every large RPG game 
 seems to have trouble in, and this game is no exception. You will occasionally run into some bumps 
 along the road which could force you to get stronger from the optional quests. But if you're not 
 a hardcore RPG veteran like me, then you'll be discouraged for sure. Some times you may not get 
 enough of Oblivion, and sometimes, you may not even touch the game for months at a time. They do 
 attempt to keep things moving with many quests and exploration, but if you're stuck, there's not 
 much to push you forward to keep trying.
  
  Sound - 8/10:
  The sound is appropriate for the game's setting of medieval times. Although I would have liked 
 to see more variety, the sound effects shine in this game. Everything makes a sound. From the little 
 pots/pans to weapons, and even the wind during some gusty days. The sound isn't the game's strongest 
 points, especially if you're into faster tunes rather than a little harp playing a little tune 
 (heavy metal fans aren't going to be happy with the soundtrack) . Another neat thing is how every 
 bit of dialogue uses actual voice acting. There won't be any boxes of text you have to read, with 
 some cutscenes with voice. There is always voice for dialogue, and it's consistently good.
  
  Value - 10/10:
  I'm putting two things into account here. One, this game will take you at 
 least a hundred hours if you do the side quests, making it a great bargain. Two, it's only $30 
 now for the PS3. How can you beat that? I'm trying to think of a reason for docking marks for it's 
 value, but I have no reason to not give it a perfect ten.
  
  Story - "borrows story from others":
  You wake up in a prison/dungeon. Soon, you tag along with 
 with the king (who let's you go) so you can defend him with his guards against assassins. Eventually, 
 they catch up to the king and assassinate the old bugger. As you may have predicted already, you 
 must find a lost heir to the throne (how original) . Along with it, you have to find the Amulet 
 of Kings which proves the heir's right to the throne and all that kingly business. Also, to make 
 matters worse, there are demons coming from another dimension called Oblivion, sending you on even 
 more quests to close all of the portals. The story doesn't really feel all that epic or original, 
 but it's a decent story. But it's only my opinion, and some people I know love the story.
  
  CONCLUSION:
  If you don't usually play RPGs, this game is definitely still worth a buy, especially 
 since it's only $30, but RPG fans will get a huge kick out of this as it takes everything right 
 about an RPG, and adds even more to it. With a taste for a huge adventure and attention to detail, 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is for you.
  
  Graphics - 8/10
  Gameplay - 9/10
  Sound - 8/10
  Value - 10/10
  Story - "borrows story from others"
  OVERALL - 9/10 (not an 
 average) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: onionking108
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 3, 2007 6:49 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a game (for me) that came out of nowhere, probably because the Elder Scrolls series 
 was exclusive to PC until Oblivion. After reading the review on Gamespot, however, I had to check 
 this game out, and I'm so glad I did. The environments are massive and absolutely gorgeous, the 
 seemingly endless amount of quests give anyone the right amount of gameplay. You can complete the 
 primary story in about 40-50 hours if you so choose, or you can try and accomplish everything, 
 taking pretty close to 200 hours. The freedom in the game is astounding, and it really gives you 
 a sense of adventure and open-endedness where a lot of other games just don't deliver. All in all, 
 you owe it to yourself to get into this game, if you're remotely interested in RPG's or even adventure 
 games. 
  
  PS) GAMESPOT! I just recently bought the Shivering Isles expansion pack for PS3 at Gamestop. It 
 came out on November 20th. You guys have it listed as December, which can't be true because I own 
 it, haha. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doherty883
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 2, 2007 7:37 am PT
Review:  Elder scrolls: oblivion is one of those speacial gems that come along once in while that just sucks 
 you in and does not let go untill it has consumed 200+ hours of your life.
  
  As soon as you start oblivion you will be asked to create a character, you pick your race, birthsign 
 even such detail as bone structure, this will also play a big part in the way your character will 
 level up and progress through out the game.
  Imagine a game like balders gate or chapions of norath.. only 3d and 10 times more customizable, this 
 game really is that good.
  After you have chose your race your adventure begins and after a short tutoruial section of the 
 game you are free to go where and do pritty much anything you want. The main aspect of the game 
 is to talk to people, find stuff out, explore and hack and slash your way through dungeons and cripts 
 alike. You can't help but admire the grand scale of the game to point that it take about 2 hours 
 just to walk across the map screen. You can chose to uphold the law or break it but beware steal, muder 
 or pilage and the local town gaurd will be hot on your heels.
  
  All rpg fans should love this game and even if your new to the genre i urge you to try it out... it 
 really is one of the best game's i have ever played!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TAMFFVII
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 1, 2007 10:21 am PT
Review:  This is the biggest game I have ever played and is definately one of the best! I normally wait 
 for games to come down in price before buying them but in this case i didn't. It definately was 
 worth the wait and the 40 i spent on it and if I could have bought it in america for $40 I would 
 love it even more! The sheer size of the game is enough to satisfy me but the gameplay, graphics, 
 and total variety to the game makes this the game of the year, and probably, the decade in my books.
 
  
  You start off making your character, which can be a lengthy process if your fussy, but worth it. 
 Then you go through the tutorial and end up outside in the big wide world. (And when I say big 
 i mean big) From here you can then pretty much do anything you can imagine. You can go terrorize 
 the local towns, join one of the many guilds, such as the fighters guild, where you complete jobs 
 involving mainly melee combat, the dark brotherhood, where you are hired to assassinate people 
 who tend to be an annoyance to the brotherhood, or even join the arena, where you take part in 
 battles fighting your way through the opposing team to become the worlds best, and more. You can 
 also complete jobs for people, which can be surprisingly dangerous for a random task given to you 
 by a shop merchant or wine seller, or if you really feel like it you can actually do the main quest 
 and the whole point of the game. You can create your own potions, customise your weapons with magical 
 abilities, or just go hunt a deer with you trusty bow and arrow, the choice is yours.
  
  But of course all good things must have their bad aswell. 
  The leveling up system is great but 
 it does have its problems. You may be playing perfectly fine for a while killing everything that 
 gets in your way, but there's a part of the leveling up system I hate. You may set it to a medium 
 difficulty at the start thinking that you may get some challenge but eventually be able to do it, 
 but that isn't how it works. It all seems fine to begin with but as you start to level up the enemies 
 start to level up aswell, and eventually you'll be fighting double the amount of enemies at double 
 the strength. They literally become impossible to beat sometimes and the hoards of monsters devour 
 their way through you like your the only chocolate cake at a single pass buffet! Ok, so you're 
 level 24 fighting a level 19 ogre but you might not have gotten to level 24 by leveling up your 
 combat skills. You may have chosen to level up your alchemy, merchantile, sneak, and other similar 
 skills, which don't involve confrontation and general fighting, as your major skills, which in 
 turn levels the AI monsters up. This is a pain cause when you go, as a level 24 character, to fight 
 a level 19 ogre you will get demolished because your blade, smash and other combat skills are still 
 at level 1, and your cookery and chatting skills are not gonna help you here. In the end the only 
 way to fix this problem so you can move on is to change the difficulty making the level 19 ogre 
 fight like a level 1 rat so you can fight as if you've just started the game. It may just be me 
 and I could be a terrible player but it is a problem I have run into. The leveling up system is 
 a hard system to explain and you may need to buy the game to understand what i'm talking about, 
 but to be fair this problem isn't worth crying about since it can be easily solved by changing 
 the difficulty.
  There are also a few minor glitches in the game which are hardly worth mentioning because i just 
 love it so much.
  
  Overall the game is fantastic and that big it is as close to impossible as you can get to being 
 able to complete the game 100% making the game worth every penny.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: hazahaxa
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 26, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is THE best game I have ever played. There is so much to do in the game. 
 I have been playing it for nearly two hundred hours now, and have barely even started the main 
 quest. You start off choosing which character to be, and depending on what you choose you can get 
 different abilities. There is an annoyingly long tutorial at the start, but you quickly forget 
 about about that when you step outside. Your playing area is massive, and there is so much to explore. 
 There are a many forests to go in, castles, dungeons, sewers, and old ancient ruins for you to 
 explore. You can also join guilds, such as the mages guild, where you can become an expert wizard, 
 or the Black Hand, where you become an assassin, and work your way up the ranks. There are many 
 creatures out there for you to fight, which can vary from little crabs, to giant trolls! The missions 
 can be immense fun to do, on that sticks to mind is one in which you have to enter someones dream, 
 and do a series of challenges to get them to wake up again. Unfortunatly, due to the large amount 
 of things that can be going on, you can get a bit of lag, which gets a liitle annoying sometimes. 
 All in all though, a brilliant game, with next to no flaws. Get it. NOW! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Supertcarlo17
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:48 am PT
Review:  The elder scrolls IV: Oblivion is surely one of the top 5 games currently of the PS3 Hardware. It 
 has so many quests, so many people to talk to and so many items. the first time i started playing 
 it i was totally amazed what a very huge difference was between this game and its predecessor: 
 Morrowind.
  
  Basically u start being locked up in the imperial city dungeons and the emperor's sons were murdered 
 and he need to escape from the imperial city through the dungeons (from your cell there is a secret 
 passage) . as the emperor sees you he says that you must be the one to save Cyrodil and bunch of 
 crappy thins as you think but in face, that is what will happen.
  
  After you follow the emperor he is murdered and before that he gave you the amulet of kings and 
 you must take ti to the bother jauffre who is located near the city of chorrol. i dont want to 
 spoil the fun so just continue the main storyline for yourselves :-) .
  
  there are tonnes of sidequests in this game, you can either join the fighters guild to earn money 
 and kill the bad people, you can join the mages guild, join the dark brotherhood to assassinate 
 some people, join the theives guild and much more.
  
  Every NPC in the game actually talks, unlike morrowind. even though the persons speaking sound 
 like the same after a while its still awesome since you will have to listen to hundreds of different 
 sentences and that is great.
  
  The ps3 version comes packed with the expansion named : the Knights of the Nine which is basically 
 a group of priests are murdered in the chapel in anvil and a prophet will be preaching outside 
 about some end of the world or something like that.....
  
  the graphics in the game is awesome, people actually move their mouth while talking, the physics 
 is great and the sound is as good as the graphics.
  
  it took me about 25 hours to complete the main storyline and about 10 weeks to pass the whole game 
 100% with all sidequests done and knighst of the nine done.
  
  my friend owns an xbox 360 and has the xbox 360 wersion and i saw that the xbox 360 version is 
 slightly inferior in the graphics, draw distance and loading times. well this is obvious since 
 the xbox 360 version came out on the market a year before the ps3 version.
  
  This is a MUST game, if you have either a good pc, an xbox 360 or a ps3.
  Buy it because its 
 price is lower than the valur of the game, 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freebird8877
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:28 am PT
Review:  Oblivon is my first real RPG, and honestly, I think it's amazing. So far I have spent over 90 hours 
 on it. The graphics are amazing, the missions are fun, the story is immersive, and their are many 
 many, and i mean MANY things to do. This is a good game for when you just want to relax and take 
 a brake from all the shooters out there. It offers alot of value, and great customizations for 
 your character, The world just seems to come to life, and you never know what you may run into 
 while traveling the hills of Cyrodiil. Whether it be creatures, townsfolk, or shrine worshiping 
 lunatics, you will never be bored. The AI is really cool, how each (over 1000!) NPCs have their 
 own schedule. It's really cool to see the guards beating down someone for stealing and whatnot. 
 The coolest thing i have seen was when i was walking through the forest when I noticed a woodland 
 guard battling minotaur. I've also seen people hunting the deer, too. As for the cons, their can 
 be alot of texture pop-ins, the NPCs don't really show emotions correctly when they are talking, 
 and sometimes I kind of feel lonely at times in such a big, open world (multi-player, anyone?) 
 If I had to recommend One game for the PS3, this would be the one. Enjoy :D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: courtdeze
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 18, 2008 11:50 am PT
Review:  This game has gotten some incredible reviews and appears to have great longevity, so perhaps I 
 just needed to give Elder Scrolls more time. Unfortunately, I found myself getting increasingly 
 disinterested with this game as it went on. The graphics were very good, and it has a very open 
 and vast world for you to explore. As a big fan of RPG's ever since FF7, it seems this game should 
 have grabbed me from the start, but it didnt. 
  
  For starters, the menu system within the game was very complex, and even after more than 20+ hours 
 of playing, I still found myself speding more time navigating the various menus and organizing 
 my inventory as much as I was playing the game. The combat system was mediocre at best, and just 
 feels really akward. Die-hard fans of this game will disagree, Im sure, and with time and practice 
 Im sure these things will become like second nature........ but for a beginner such as myself, these 
 elements are crucial to keeping my interest.
  
  Secondly, I had a veryhard time getting into the story and never felt any real sense of excitement 
 and/or accomplishment with anything I was doing. 
  With Its amazingly huge, beautiful world and open ended, free style of play it seems like this 
 game would be much better suited as an mmorpg, where you could interact with other people in and 
 get help, explore and fight together, y.......... Instead I was sitting alone in my room, wishing 
 I could interact with someone, ANYONE, besides an NPC and the boring and mundane 2-4 minute conversations 
 I was forced to sit through.
  
  So I was forced to learn everything on my own, and everywhere I went I ended up picking up all 
 these side quests, and combine that with learning alchemy and lockpicking and improving conversation 
 skills and trading and upgrading my character, and gladiator training and weapon and armor upgrade 
 and repair and so on.......... I soon realised I had neither the time or patience to spend on this 
 game. 
  
  After about 20+ hours of gameplay I realized that I had barely scratched the surface of Elder Scrolls, 
 I was lost in the story and had about 10 different places to visit to do 20 different things in 
 and between. This isnt necessarily a bad thing if youre still stuck in that mid- 1980's mentality 
 and havent joined the rest of the gaming community online. If not, then you may welcome the 60+ 
 hours you will spend all by yourself beating this game.
  
  If you have the time and patience, this game will reward you with its beauty and longevity. You 
 will create a very customizeable character you will become attached to and enjoy the freedom you 
 are given to explore this beautiful world......... Personally, I would rather beat FF7 for the 4th 
 time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jordakai
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 14, 2007 1:02 pm PT
Review:  It all starts off by making a character with a choice of ten different races, the face options 
 is unbelievable, morphing forehead to chin, it will take awhile just to make a perfect character. 
 Anyway you start off in a prison, then all of a sudden gaurds and the emperor comes ''URIAL SEPTIM'' 
 they walk into your cell and the gaurds complain that this was off limits. So this giant secret 
 passage opens up and urial thinks your the chosen one, the one to stop this danger from happening, 
 so he tells you to come with him anyway. They are mainly trying to get the emperor out because 
 the Daedric are trying to assasinate him, though pretty much the emperor knows hes going to die. 
 He soon gets assasinated and gives you the amulet of kings to give it to his only son Jauffre. 
 Whoah Whoah Whoah one sec I forgot something before this. Ok so basically you get a tutorial and 
 your able to choose a birthsign and class, through the tutorial your split up and you go another 
 then meet up. So back to the part when he dies, ok so you then get out of the passage then enter 
 the sewers, and you see light, yes light, and their on your able to do WHAT EVER YOU WANT!!!!!! 
 from robbing picklocking hunting questing talking buying things and even getting deseases! But 
 overall the story and introduction was good. This a game you definetly pick
  up for the PS3 XBOX360 PC. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_LONESPARTAN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:56 pm PT
Review:  The elder scrools IV: oblivion is almost the best RPG game i've played so far, all the things you 
 can do like free roam and join a mages guild or a fighters guild and the storyline is a little 
 above average, i also like all the abilities you can do, like magic, blade, shield, blunt, hand 
 to hand, and many more, and my favorite thing in this game is the oblivion gates, which i go in 
 there and kill every thing i see in there like the spiders, deadra, the dinosaurs beast, and the 
 dark theme/ fire theme it has in the gate.: twisted: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingKnightGamer
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 13, 2007 7:27 am PT
Review:  This was an awesome game. With real-like graphics and neverending variety of weapons this game 
 stands above the rest. Plus, the variety of armour, enemies, missions, and places to explore is 
 neverending. You can choose your player and characterize your character down to the tiniest detail. 
 The story is about when the Gates to Oblivion open and it's up to you to find the heir to the Septem 
 Throne and close the gates before it's too late. I recommend you get this game. It comes out for 
 the PS3 and the Xbox 360, so get it! I have to admit the story does get boring after awhile, with 
 nothing to do but explore caves and such, and fighting zombies and skeletons get kinda boring. 
 You can choose wehat kind of person you want to be, from a wizard, to a knight, and more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 16, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  Yep, the review deck said it all.
  Today I played this game for 3 hours. I could have played it more. But I love to see my family.
 
  The game is very well created... i spent like an hour just creating my guy, and getting out of 
 the sewers so that i could roam the world.
  You can choose from like 10 different races.... I chose Argonian.. and you can do like everything.
 
  Just a while ago I was attacked by a wolf, so I needed more health and got on a rock with my bow 
 and arrow, and shot a deer. I went up to the deer after about 2-3 shots, got all of my arrows back, 
 and took some of the deer meat and healed me. Thats one thing you can do with the game. 
  I also went into a house why a lady was sleeping and stole everything so i can sell it later. Then 
 I killed her.
  Next, I went to this small area with a couple bandits, killed them, stole their clothes and weapons 
 so i can go sell it later.
  
  People, I can sit here all day and explain what I did on Oblivion. I dont believe there is an end 
 to the game. This is definitely the best game that I have ever encountered. And i am a strict gamer. 
 
  
  Buy it now. If you are wondering if it is a good game, it is one of the best you will find. This 
 game defines the power and beauty of the ps3. It shows it power and memory with graphics that made 
 me laugh they were so amazing. I got to play it some more. Right now. Im gonna go play it some 
 more. 
  BUY IT i dont know how else to say it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fuzzy_hippo
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 11, 2007 1:43 pm PT
Review:  this is an amazing game that will have you hooked from the beginning. the main quest focuses on 
 your character finding an heir to the throne of cyrodill (this is the world the game takes place 
 in) . the main quests are among the few of Oblivions many quests. These can range from guild quests 
 to quests you get just from talking to some bum on the streets. If you are a fan of RPG games you 
 will love this game with its many different spells, weapons and skills you can buy or get better 
 at while playing this game. I recomend this game to anybody who owns a PS3, go and buy this game 
 now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slainta
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 6, 2007 8:56 am PT
Review:  Well, this is my first review. I actually like this game, the graphics is immense, you really travel 
 in another world which you can observe from a very far distance. The fights are good, the leveling 
 system is right, there are plenty of quests and people to talk with. But I miss many things. It 
 is not clear what the story is about, you must read a review to understand it. No cut FMV scenes 
 to understand it and enjoy the true power of PS3, the graphics sometime gets slow, not moving continuously 
 (7 cpu cells for that?) , the music is almost the time always the same. I must talk a lot and somehow, 
 but not necessarily, even listen to all gossips. For example a similar game, at least in terms 
 of environment like the Shadow of the Colossus is much more fluid and smoother, with no loading 
 times and that's made for PS2. Talking about RPGs, I miss all the typical things of games like 
 FFXII. When I level up I like to smash weaker opponents. I like to have a clear story to follow, 
 and ancillary quests to play. I like to be introduced in the story, and to understand what the 
 story is about. I like Special Effects and I like well studied, not repetitive music. Still, this 
 game is great, an absolute must buy. Just do not expect a typical Fantasy RPG. It looks much more 
 like a Medieval GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saranis
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  In todays games there aren't many great go anymore, do anything RPGs. There are a lot of action 
 games that use this thanks to Grand Theft Auto popularizing it but RPGs have been a bit slow in 
 following the trend. In the past Elder Scrolls Games you were able to go onlt to places where Monsters 
 woulnt destroy you in 1 or 2 hits. Being able to go anywhere and do whatever you want in the is 
 rather refreshing. The monster scaling is something that players will either love or hate. Dungeons 
 scale along with you so the Bandits wearing basic leather armor at level 1 and 2, will be wearing 
 glass armor at lvl 30 or so. Some people complain this ruins the sense of accomplishment, to me 
 it keeps the game from becoming stale and too easy.
  
  The class system seams to be useless except that you start with +10 to the attributes and Skills 
 that you choose. These skills are how you level up, so choose them wisely. The more important aspects 
 of character creation are Birthsign and Race. Birthsigns allow you to select a sign that you were 
 born under that offers extra abilities or statistical bonuses. Races offered are the usual Orcs, 
 Humans, and Elves and each has unique abilites and attributes.
  
  Weapons have taken a bit of a step backwards since Morrowind. There are many less options for you 
 to choose from. Knives, Staves, Swords, Axes, Maces, and Bows are about the limit to the options. 
 You can also play the role of Monk and go Barefisted. Many people complain the lack of a single 
 skill in the game (levitation) that was removed due to the cities being diferrent instances than 
 the rest of the world. Other than that there are magic spells for almost everything else you might 
 want to do. The only complaints I have with the PS3 version is that it could have included those 
 Add-ons that were released for the PC and 360 however it did not. It includes the Mini-expansions 
 'Knights of the Nine' which is nice for do-gooder characters but for evil ones it is very literally 
 useless. Even releasing these Add-ons for the PSN would have been alright, however they are completly 
 missing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 19, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  I've had my PS3 since December and i'm glad to say that for the most part i've made the right choices 
 in game selection. Oblivion is a very well known role playing game that in my opinion, almost has 
 too many roles to play.
  
  The game has one linear story line that has to do with the king being killed and you have to seal 
 the gates of oblivion that are opened when he dies. There are many gates scattered throughout the 
 16 squaremile landscape and at anytime you can choose to close one up by going in it and destroying 
 it from the inside. Aside from the main quest, there are literally thousands of things you can 
 do. You can by a horse and just explore, or buy and sell goods, or kill people for pay, or fight 
 in the arena (my personal favorite thing about the game) . There are so many things to choose from 
 though you almost loose your will to play the game because there are so many things its almost 
 too much to think about. but if you aren't afraid to get caught up in a game, this is an easy way 
 to kill 200 hours of your life.
  
  The graphics honestly are not that great, although when you look at the scale of the game, it would 
 be hard to make them much better technically. The environments are extremely varied, from snow 
 mountains to dense swamps, its very fun to explore every part at least once. The character models 
 look fabulous though.
  
  The sound is decent though nothings special. The same 3 or 4 songs repeat throught the whole game 
 and you can tell they only had about 6 people do all the voices. But don't let this scare you. 
 This game by FAR as the most voiced lines in a game i have ever heard. There are so many things 
 you will hear many people throughout all your conversations. And you can direct which way your 
 conversations go by choosing what you say.
  
  After getting 2 shooters, a boxer, and 2 racers, I needed a adventure game so I went with this. 
 I got about 50 hours into it, and I haven't really played it since, but if this is your true favorite 
 genre of games, you will have a blast playing this. I recomend getting the game of the year edition 
 since it was just released. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xMeHRuNeSDaGoNx
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 31, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  This game has ruined my life with its addictive grasp. The ONLY time you will ever put the down 
 the controller is when you HAVE to sleep. Even when you eat you will want to keep playing this 
 game. You might even skip a few days of school or even a week! Too bad i bought this game during 
 the school week. Probably the most spectacular visuals ever created on a game. The Biggest World 
 you could ever explore in! The most addictive gameplay every created on a game. Even before you 
 start the game, there is so much detail to be put into your character. You will probably spend 
 more time creating your character than it took you to beat Heavenly Sword. The vast arsenal of 
 weapons, armor, and spells will keep you satisfied. You can even create your own spells when you 
 complete a certain area of the game. I cant WAIT till they come out with part 5! I'll be sure to 
 buy it when im not in school or else it will probably ruin me again. CURSE you Oblivion for ruining 
 my life. But Thank You Oblivion for showing me a truly Flawless game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dmish82
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 6:41 am PT
Review:  I originally played Oblivion for the 360 when it first came out and chalked up over 100 hrs of 
 playtime on it. My only complaints about the game were that it froze up often, had terribly long 
 load times, and the redraw rate was rough. The PS3 version fixes all of that. The average load 
 time is only 5-10 secs, the framerate and redraw are smooth, and I have yet for the game to freeze 
 up on me.
  
  Oblivion sets you in the vast world of Tamriel where you play as the race and class of your choice. 
 You play an intro to the story/game level where you must escape from prison and based on how you 
 play this area, the game will recommend what type of character you should play as. As a character 
 you can focus on fighting skills, magic, ranged-attacks, sneaking, etc. Each race will also get 
 a different added bonus.
  
  One of the most incredible parts of Oblivion is how open-ended it really is. You can choose to 
 complete the main quest or you can do what most will, which is get sidetracked easily and go on 
 a bunch of side quests and explore. This game is also very hard to put down as it is so immersive. 
 Almost all of the side quests have a great story to them or involve a twist of some sort. This 
 keeps them all interesting and makes you want to keep completing more of them.
  
  Oblivion is a must-own game for anyone that owns a PS3. The graphics look great, the recorded dialogue 
 is very good and is expansive, the non-linear format is incredible, and the massive size of the 
 open world is truly amazing. If you have not played Oblivion, I highly recommend you go out and 
 purchase it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: r_win
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 3:16 am PT
Review:  If you've never played an RPG before the mere scope of the gameworld might get a bit overwhelming, 
 but then on the other hand gameplayers are, since GTA III, aquainted with a free roaming world.
 
  This game has absolutely everything to offer one could wish for: beautifull graphics, user-friendly 
 controls, gradually increasing difficulty, fleshed out storyline and tons of side quests.
  If u ever wanted to have an excuse to disconnect yourself from the rest of the world for a week 
 or two: buy this game, I promise you: it'll be worth it!
  
  I found that it was interesting to start the game and just walk around, experiment with the controls, 
 find out the way everything works, test for a few hours...
  Then when you are comfortable with the way it goes and you have an understanding of what skills 
 there are just start all over from the beginning. And start for good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 19, 2007 10:18 pm PT
Review:  THIS is the best game ever. Everything is perfect exept the frame rate... thats it i love it. It's 
 like the Single payer WOW and 10x better it is so amazing. the graphics are near perfect the world 
 is huge and i can't get enough of it and it's the best version yet. The load times are faster the 
 graphics are better and the draw distance is farther. I can't name all the things in my head because 
 there is to many it is just to amazing. It is my fav game and doesn't get much better and so far 
 i have not been proven wrong yet. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Siavash_ps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 18, 2007 8:40 am PT
Review:  Have you ever become tired from your recent life? Surely every one answers yes! So I say why don't 
 you go and taste a new life? You can become everything you like: a warrior, a mage, a wizard, a 
 thief or anything that you love to be. All these facilities are presented in OBLIVION best game 
 of the year . you will make your own character and continue the way that you yourself want to choose. 
 If you continue the storyline it will not take more than 8 hours to spend and after that there 
 will be a world to live and fights to do and persons to make relationship with. Best game of the 
 year is not a title that gives to any game. try to do this game before you die!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_dangelo
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 17, 2007 12:00 pm PT
Review:  i have played all three versions on the pc, 360 nad ps3, i own the pc and ps3 versions. i have 
 to say the ps3 version seems to loo kthe best but it isnt that noticable, there really aint much 
 to say, if you havent played it yet then play it, but otherwise it is prettymuch the same thing, 
 and the game of the year edition will be coming out this holiday so you should buy that this way 
 you get all the expansions to it. Now the game looks great, still has the same great gmaeplay, 
 and it does have faster laoding times then its counterparts, but the laod times are still drawn 
 out fo ra while, and there are still some glitches between characters and some conflicting quests 
 that bethesda has seemed to jsut ignore or give up on. the game has great replay value even when 
 you beatthe main quest there are literaly hundreds of side quests that you can do 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostnut
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 3:14 pm PT
Review:  Good graphics, great story, nice gameplay and many characters to choose from........ what else do 
 you want? This game is one of the best I ever played. So many side quests to choose from....... I 
 played like 100 hours up to this day and I'm not done yet. You just keep progressing and leveling 
 up your character, getting new armors and weapons and developping new magics. And the map is so freaking 
 big you almost get lost. The only bad thing I can say is that it's not an online game...... that 
 would have been so cool. But overall, Oblivion is amazing and I recommend it to everyone..... except 
 for people who don't like role-playing games of course. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kaeick
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 14, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has to be one of the best games available on the Ps3 platform. Not 
 only is it a an awesome role-playing game but it's just a well rounded play all around. Right away 
 I was enchanted by the beautiful graphics and the wonderful story line. Me and all of my friends 
 just can not get enough of this game! It has a good length to it and I love all of the side quests 
 that you have the option of taking up or just forgetting about them all together. Also being in 
 so much control of how your character will live really is a bonus. This is an obvious buy for all 
 Ps3 owners. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVaderOWNS
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 13, 2007 9:16 pm PT
Review:  GAMEPLAY
  This game is the most addictive game ever. With such a big world to explore, this game will never 
 leave you get you bored. There are so many quests and so many things to do: The Mages Guild, The 
 Thieves Guild, The Fighters Guild, The Knights of the Nine, Side Quests, The Arena, and lets not 
 forget about the MAIN STORY! This game is just stacked with so many things to do, you will honestly 
 never get bored.
  
  GRAPHICS
  Oblivion looks spectacular. The detail in the water, the grass, the clouds, the walkways, everything 
 just looks great.
  
  STORY
  This games story is great, not perfect but great. The story is that the emperor gets murderd and 
 Mehrunes Dagon, the prince of destruction is opening up portals in the world of oblivionto pretty 
 much take over the world. You must close these gates by finding the true heir to the throne and 
 letting him light the dragonfires in the temple of the one.
  
  So what I'm trying to say is, GET THIS GOD DAMN GAME! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: caseypayne69
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 9, 2007 7:50 pm PT
Review:  The Good: Extreamly long and full of content. Rich and colorful environments. Faster load times 
 and longer draw distances then the 360 version. Tons of voice acting. Very good menu for keeping 
 track of quests and switching back and forth between them, simply perfect. The Bad: Can get boring 
 at times. Difficulty meter went from to easy to way to hard. Fights never fully felt balanced. 
 Lots of back tracking if you like selling the gear of the dead you kill.
  
  This is simply a one of a kind game, till Fallout arrives. For those who like long medievil stories 
 look no further then Elder Scrolls. Its got everything from magic, sword fighting, summoning, Ratings 
 based on 10/9/2007
  Graphics 8
  Gameplay 8
  Music 9
  Replay 10
  Worth Owning 7 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jazza100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  This is such an imense game, the graphics are absolutely astounding especialy using an HDMI cable. 
 I have never played a game with such a vast land, it truly is a whole world to be explored. You 
 can walk for several hours before you reach a boundary in any direction, travelling through misty 
 mountain passes, deep dark forrests, cross guarded rope bridges over waterfalls and chasms. The 
 only fault i can find with this game is the fact that i simply cannot find enough time to play 
 it and my days seem to disapear
  when i do get a chance to if anything the game is a little too huge! I think the factor which truly 
 makes this game so impressive is the amount of side missions and objectives available to you alongside 
 the main story line, become the grand champion of the gladitorial arena, the top guy (listener) 
 of a dark brotherhood of assasins, the list goes on and on. If you dont mind losing whole days 
 at a time getting truly immersed in a world so real you feel genuine emotions and excitment buy 
 this game, honestly its worth every penny! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS_4lyf
Rating: 6.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This Game i haven't played allot but i have watch my brother play it a fair bit and i don't really 
 like it because it is a complete different game pair to what im in to.
  
  Also i found out you have to be in the right mood to play it.
  
  I can't last 10 mins off playing 
 it i just get to bored off it, So if your thinking off buying this game make sure your into those 
 types of games that the gameplay goes on and on and that you slowly build up and become better 
 and better.
  
  But the most think i like about the game is how advanced it is for example.
  
  At the start 
 off the game if i still a wepon the ending will be diffrent then how it would of been if you paid 
 for it.
  
  Also the enemies don't get better by em selfs you have to become stronger for the enemies to become 
 more stronger.
  
  This is why i have ranked it 6.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 319ni
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 28, 2007 3:03 pm PT
Review:  lets make no bones, oblivion is a great game. if your a rpg guy you will love it, im even tempted 
 to say that any sandbox game fan will enjoy this
  
  the game starts with you in a cell and the king busting out around you, prior to this you choose 
 your class and various skillsets and such. once out your free to do all the bits and pieces, concentrate 
 on the main game or deviate from there. the main story will have a rpg average gamer 20 ish hours, 
 my advice would be deviate, serioulsy deviate from the main story and join a guild or 2. mages 
 guild is a good starter and helps the rest of the ga, me huuuuugely. then go wild.
  
  ive never played a eldar scroll game but if the rest were half as good as this then ive serioulsy 
 missed out and so have you.
  
  the ps3 aint got a flood of good games at the mo so this is a total must 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bohemoths2000
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  Yes the graphic are outstanding, and the world is huge beyond huge. This game has no heart though. 
 I hate this sliding scale of difficulty thing. If I spend hours leveling up my guy I want it to 
 mean something. Thing game just does nothing for me. Generally my first choice in games is a first-person 
 shooter or a good rpg but this thing sucks. What really surprises me, is this games ultra high 
 rating. If this game is going to be what I should expect from a 9.5 on the PS3 I wish I'd never 
 have spent the money on this stupid system. This game is a 7 on a very good day, and I love games 
 lke this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sasruko
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 10:33 am PT
Review:  One obvious strategy for anyone stuck for something to say is to provide a brief summary of the 
 game, in case prospective PS3 owners have somehow managed to steer clear of anything about the 
 Xbox 360 or PC version. So here goes: Oblivion is an utterly open-ended, first- or third-person 
 RPG that is set in a game world that consists of about 16 square miles filled with over a thousand 
 NPCs, each one benefiting from a sophisticated AI system that provides a daily schedule of interactions. 
 It features a star-studded voice cast including the likes of Patrick Stewart, Sean Bean, Terrance 
 Stamp, and Lynda Carter, and an epic plot triggered by a chance encounter between the player and 
 the Emperor Uriel Septim VII, who is fleeing for his life from assassins of the Mythic Dawn. But 
 while the game's main quest sees players restoring the heir to the Septim throne, the great strength 
 of Oblivion is that the main quest can be absolutely ignored. Should you so choose, you're entirely 
 free to join a guild instead, or participate in the gladiator arena, or dabble with alchemy, or 
 just develop your umpteen attributes in any direction you'd care to imagine, and generally just 
 explore the almost limitless potential of what is basically the dictionary definition of a living, 
 breathing game world. One obvious strategy for anyone stuck for something to say is to provide 
 a brief summary of the game, in case prospective PS3 owners have somehow managed to steer clear 
 of anything about the Xbox 360 or PC version. So here goes: Oblivion is an utterly open-ended, 
 first- or third-person RPG that is set in a game world that consists of about 16 square miles filled 
 with over a thousand NPCs, each one benefiting from a sophisticated AI system that provides a daily 
 schedule of interactions. It features a star-studded voice cast including the likes of Patrick 
 Stewart, Sean Bean, Terrance Stamp, and Lynda Carter, and an epic plot triggered by a chance encounter 
 between the player and the Emperor Uriel Septim VII, who is fleeing for his life from assassins 
 of the Mythic Dawn. But while the game's main quest sees players restoring the heir to the Septim 
 throne, the great strength of Oblivion is that the main quest can be absolutely ignored. Should 
 you so choose, you're entirely free to join a guild instead, or participate in the gladiator arena, 
 or dabble with alchemy, or just develop your umpteen attributes in any direction you'd care to 
 imagine, and generally just explore the almost limitless potential of what is basically the dictionary 
 definition of a living, breathing game world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: silly_sylvain
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 15, 2007 5:41 am PT
Review:  This is definitely on my top 5 list of games. Great Gameplay, Story, Graphics, Audio what more 
 can you ask for? A Definite Buy for any platform you own. Long Story so you'll definitely not be 
 putting it down in an afternoon, even after you're done with the game, you still have hundreds 
 of quests to keep you occupied until Shivering Ilse comes out for the PS3. Great Profession choices, 
 whether you want to be a Warrior, Archer, Mage you're going to have a great time playing this. 
 Whether you're into First Person Shooters or Fantasy games or whatever you're gonna have a great 
 time playing this epic game. 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zeiko123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 7:54 pm PT
Review:  This game was quite a surprise hit for me. I played Morrowind and didn't like it all that much! 
 But i think that is due to Being more of a Final Fantasy RPG player. I thought I'd give this one 
 ago because it has some great reviews and looked good!
  
  Anyway I'm about 16 hours into it and am loving it. I haven't sat down for ages and played a game 
 with out getting bored. Theres just so much to do, so many side quests and its got great game play 
 and its interesting and fun! the graphics are pretty good too and it looks great, when day turns 
 to night and seasons change. The Era of the game is awesome, with knights and magic and the sort.
 
  
  Quite a Surprise as i Said and defiantly recommended, at least rent first to see what you think. 
 Well worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 5
Date: Sep 9, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  if your an RPG fan then your probably going to want to try this game out, the over all story of 
 it is fairly good and the graphics are extremly nice especially the feilds and such. But the gameplay 
 is very tedious. If they had uped the action a little bit where it's more chance of using your 
 sword and arrows more then it would have been better. Also if they'd made the map a little more 
 straight forward like The Lord Of The Rings The Third Age but kept the sandbox feel of the game 
 then it would definatley have been massivly improved. But it's not the worst nor the best game 
 I have played. It is however one of the best graphical achevments I have ever seen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tom_phat246
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 8, 2007 6:28 pm PT
Review:  I didnt know what to expect when I first put Oblivion in my PS3. But straight away i could tell 
 it would be awesome. With the levling up system it makes it really fun to set goals. The other 
 good thing about the game is that you can do a quest then another one and you won't have to worry 
 about taking your time to do it because to finish the game (which i think is impossible) you have 
 to play for about 200 hours. The graphics are also unbelievable, but just a warning for all you 
 guys/girls out there, when you start Oblivion, its hard to stop. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolguy681
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion by bethesda is the fourth installment in the long running bethesda series, 
 and Oblivion is by far the best game in the series. Already released for the PC and X360 last march 
 this game showed a great RPG game. Now Bethesda brought the game to the PS3. Not only does it have 
 everything that was included in the X360 game. It also has the additional downloadable content 
 of the Questline the Knights of the Nine. First let me compare the PS3 version with the X360 version. 
 The PS3 version is downright better. With loading times faster, crisper graphics and draw distances 
 farther. The PS3 version of the game is the one to have if you have a PS3. Well anyways, Oblivion 
 is a very long game. The main questline in 35-40 hrs. You are in a jail for committing a crime, 
 Emperor Uriel Septim comes through your cell to escape from his fateful death. He sees you and 
 recognizes you from his dreams. He tells the guards to free you and you go through the special 
 passage which leads out of the prison and into the sewers. After the emperor dies you choose your 
 character major skills, and his sign. After you leave the prison you are on your own. You can continue 
 the main questline, or go exploring on your own into the mountains, fields and numerous caves of 
 Oblivion. Let me tell you one thing when I first left the sewers I was amazed of the landscape. 
 Its gorgeous and is probably one of the best looking games to hit the PS3. Other than the main 
 storyline you can do other side quests involving factions like the Theives Guild or the Mages Guild, 
 or just by helping people out with their own problems. This game has over 200 hrs of gameplay and 
 even by finishing all of the side quests you still arent completely finished. You can raise your 
 skill points up each to master if you arent satisfied. This game doesnt end until you want it to 
 end. If you wanted to you can start a rampage by just killing innocent people in the imperial city. 
 And then the guards start attacking you and you can fight back using your powerful weapons, armor 
 and spells and show them who is boss. The audio is beautiful and works perfectly when you are walking 
 through the lands of cyrodill. Every word spoken by dialogue is also sounded. Even if sometimes 
 peoples talking voices are overlapped with other peoples. Its still great to see that Bethesda 
 worked hard on every aspect of this game. The gameplay is very simple and its too bad Bethesda 
 doesnt change it at all during the whole game. You have your attack button, and your block button. 
 If you hold the block button, you block. If you press the attack button you do a quick slash. But 
 if you hold the block button you do a power attack. This mentality stays as the throughout the 
 whole game of Oblivion. Even this its a delight to use it because there is nothing really wrong 
 with it. Its just so basic and overused.
  If you are looking for a great RPG game or a just great overall action game for your newly purchased 
 PS3 you really cant go wrong with Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion. This game should not be missed by 
 anyone who appreciates games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OblivionRising
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 9:35 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion has finally made its Playstation 3 debut. Although this game a sight 
 to behold, it's still pretty far from perfect. There are many improvements since Morrowind, there 
 are still some things that the developers shouldn't have removed from the series. Nevertheless, 
 Oblivion will literally take a chunk out of your life from the countless hours you'll spend assassinating 
 citizens of Cyrodill for the Dark Brotherhood, or finding the holy Relics of the Crusader and resurrecting 
 a long-gone band of knights known only as The Knights of the Nine.
  
  STORY (Nothing REALLY important.)
  At the very beginning of the game, you'll find yourself locked 
 in a cell in the Imperial Prison. The one and only Emperor Uriel Septim, the emperor of Tamriel, 
 comes through your the cell with his very small group of bodyguards, the Blades. He says that he 
 knows all his sons are dead. He tells you that he's seen you in his dreams and that you'll be remembered 
 for something great.
  
  You're in luck: you get to follow the emperor straight to his death not ten minutes into the game. 
 He gives you his Amulet of Kings and tells you to go to a prior named Jauffre. Why? Because Jauffre 
 knows where to find Uriel's illegitimate son, Martin, the last heir to the throne. Later on, the 
 Amulet of Kings gets stolen by a man named Mankar Camoran, and you'll have to get it back by working 
 with Martin, doing various quests.
  
  GAMEPLAY (The cream of the crop, if you will. This is where Bethesda messed up on a few things, 
 as well as improved others.)
  
  |-General-|
  The physics is one thing that won't go unnoticed in this game. Kill an enemy on a slanting slope, 
 and watch them roll down, their bodies flailing limply around. This is great, and adds realism. 
 But, sometimes, when you brush up against a surface that has movable objects on it, they'll just 
 fly through the air suddenly and uncontrollably. This actually happens pretty often and gets really 
 annoying. The PS3 controls we all know and love fit perfectly and comfortably for this game, making 
 some things easier for those who are more adjusted and used to it.
  
  |-Combat-|
  This hardly changed at all since Morrowind. The combat is pretty dull. To fight an enemy, you just 
 have to do a basic attack-block-attack combo nonstop until it's dead. As your weapon skills (Blade, 
 Blunt, Hand to Hand, Marksman) improve, you gain the ability to use new power attacks done by holding 
 the attack button and moving in a certain direction while attacking. To me, this sucks. As your 
 Acrobatics skill improves, you'll be able to do dodge rolls, adding minimum excitement to the combat. 
 Although the combat is boring, it does the job. The magic system helps out a lot, too.
  
  |-Magic-|
  Hit the R2 button to cast magic. This actually does add excitement to battles. The 
 great variety of spells help the combat out immensely, but there is a downside: not every type 
 of character you might have will be able to use magic. If your character is a warrior, you'll have 
 to stick to the same old dull combat. In Morrowind, there were spells that you could exploit very 
 easily. For example, you could create a levitate spell that lasted for 500 seconds. You'll just 
 levitate out of reach of your enemies, and just pound them with arrows or attack spells. For Oblivion, 
 spells that could be exploited were removed. Kudos to Bethesda for this.
  
  |-Stealth/Sneaking-|
  Probably the funnest part of the gameplay. Sneaking has many benefits. 
 The higher your Sneak skill, the more often you'll get whatever you want. A good stealth character 
 can breeze through the Thieves Guild and the Dark Brotherhood quests with ease. You'll be able 
 to pickpocket easily and, of course, pick locks without sweat. You'll be able to get past almost 
 any obstacle without trouble. There's no cons here.
  
  GRAPHICS (A HUGE improvement since Morrowind.)
  Take a look at a screenshot of Morrowind and 
 then take a look at one of Oblivion. Of course you see a huge difference. I'd say something about 
 the difference in graphics between the PS3 and the Xbox 360, but I'm playing in HD. Besides, I 
 don't want to get attacked by fanboys. Anyways, the game just looks incredible. The lighting is 
 perfect, but the thing that bugs me the most is that if you're in a house downstairs and there's 
 someone upstairs, you'll be able to see their shadow through the ceiling. This is just annoying.
 
  
  SOUND (Get ready. This is a short one.)
  The voice acting is superb, especially the voice of Martin Septim. There are even a few celebrity 
 voices taking over in Oblivion. The music is brilliant and fits perfectly for different situations.
 
  
  END
  |-Pros-|
  +A huge world with endless possibilities
  +Non-linear gameplay
  +An extremely long adventure that will take you hundreds of hours (Maybe I just don't have a life. 
 :D)
  +Create your character to be whatever you want him/her to be
  +The graphics just look beautiful, especially in 720p
  
  |-Cons-|
  -Physics sometimes backfires
 
  -Melee combat is dull
  
  |-Final Score-|
  9.5/10 - Although far from perfect, Oblivion exceeds all expectations of an RPG and of a video 
 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulioRed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:13 pm PT
Review:  Ok this is the game that has made me feel guilty. Reading the save screen it says 113 hours game 
 time, and this isn't my first save. The problem with feeling guilty? I enjoyed every minute of 
 it, from the long horse back rides, to the wide variety of colourful and interesting characters. 
 I bought this game the same day i bought my PS3 knowing i had acquired a gem due to the rave reviews 
 the 360 version had received. When i got home and slotted it in the disc tray, i was not disappointed. 
 I started off by making my first ever character (a long hair blond Breton) The variety of customisation 
 choices were amazing, choosing everything from nose shape and size, to hair colour and style and 
 even skin tone, which is much much better than other games. I then started the first part of the 
 game, which i wont go into detail with because i don't want to spoil it for anyone, but lets just 
 say after a brief menu screen the world really opens up.
  The ai in the game is also very good and i encountered very few glitches, which is surprising considering 
 how ambitious the game is. There were a few voice issues though like a female using a male's voice 
 etc, but these were a rarity and on the whole the voice acting is very good. Also the sound in 
 the game is amazing, always setting the right tone getting the player into the atmosphere of the 
 game. Sound 10.
  The graphics in the game are very good bordering on amazing, but there are a few screen loads while 
 your running, especially in the forest, although there is much much less of that than on the 360 
 version. Water effects are especially impressive. Graphics 9.0.
  The gameplay is fluid and very easy to get used to, its as simple as L1 to block with your shield 
 or whatever weapon you have equipped, R1 to attack with your weapon and R2 to use magical attacks. 
 The only problems are that combat could of been made more fun and the enemies don't seem to be 
 very intelligent. But the quests and storyline easily make up for this small problems. Finally 
 the value is very good. &pound;40-&pound;50 for 100+ hours of gameplay plus an huge expansion that 
 360 users have to pay for? Yes please. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JimmYSkeeZ
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 23, 2007 7:18 pm PT
Review:  The fourth chapter in the Elder Scrolls series takes the game to new levels with gameplay and graphical 
 enhancements, and features over 200 hours of play time. The PS3 version includes an additional 
 race, the Knights of the Nine... Oblivion is a game that you can play anytime you're bored and 
 it'll be fun for hours. If you get tired of it you can just wait a day or two and you'll be ready 
 to play it again. There is tons of stuff to do on Oblivion such as joining guilds and advancing 
 your rank to the guildmaster. You can become a thief and the missions will get harder and harder 
 and eventually you'll be the king of all thiefs, and all the other thief's will love you. If you 
 don't have time to play the game for 200 hours you can just do the main quest which only takes 
 about 20 hours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vikingsfan2772
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 31, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  great characters are all across this game. The storyline has never been better with tons of stuff 
 to do. Whether its sneaking around and murdering or practicing magic, carrying out contracts for 
 regular citizens, stealing things, plus all the side quests it is just great fun. You can get lost 
 in this game for countless hours before you need to advance in the storyline. It is non-stop fun 
 and I wouldn't reccomend this game for people that have a busy schedule because it will eat up 
 your time. Overall this is a great game and anyone who gets it will love it no matter what you 
 want to do in the game it can be done. AMAZING. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SP3AR101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  its very good game with endless hours of game play, its strongest feature by far
  
  it also has a very in depth story line which takes a while to complete along with hundreds of other 
 missions from random people around the game world
  
  building on you characters attributes can take time to with so many things to improve on such as 
 blade (sword skills etc) , stealth, stamina, agility, destuction (magic) and many more. As well 
 as that you can get many different weapons ranging from swords to hammers and bows and lots of 
 armour.
  
  the game difficulty develops around you depending on your character skill with enemies getting 
 harder and harder as you get better with better armour and weopons ang bigger monsters!
  
  however you can also change the difficulty from medium ( i like ) 2 stupidly easy (for people who 
 r not so gd at the game.... (1 hit kills) ) and very hard ( for people who are amazingly good at 
 the game and everything in between
  
  SP3AR
  
  online id:
  
  SP3AR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: teewii
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 31, 2007 9:40 am PT
Review:  The first thing you will notice about this game is its awesome graphics. the environments look 
 really good, but the character models could have been better. but that doesnt matter. this game 
 is soo impressing in a lot of ways. the first thing i thought about was the huge world u can explore, 
 and all the different characters, which looks different, and every single dialogue is voiced.
 
  
  The storyline is also good, and gives some deptto the game. but when u have completed the main 
 quest, u feel like this game doesnt make so much sense anymore, and u stop playing. it would also 
 be better if it could offer some more weapons and armors. and it does get on my nerves when i have 
 to go into oblivion all the time...
  
  but this is a game that will keep you busy for hours, and is one of the best games i've ever played. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enerbee
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 26, 2007 1:31 pm PT
Review:  oblivion
  i've never played an elder scrolls game before, but after playing oblivion i don't plan on missing 
 any future installments. this game delivers, plain and simple
  
  gameplay-near perfect. the combat can be a little clumsy on rare occasions, but for the most part 
 its spot on. the controls are laid out very nicely and easy to use. the menus are arranged neatly 
 giving you easy access to all of your items, maps, quests, etc. graphics-one of the most beautiful 
 looking games i've ever seen. even with its huge scale, this is one of the most detailed worlds 
 in any game. they don't cut back with the characters either. if i had to complain about something, 
 i would say that the facial expressions could use a little work on some of the characters but that's 
 really nitpicking
  
  sound-the game shines here too. the music is top notch. it's never overpowering, as it is often 
 playing second fiddle (in a good way) to the very natural sound effects, which use good use of 
 surround channels. the voice acting here is as good as any game, but here there is so much of it. 
 every character speaks and most of them have there own unique things to say
  
  value-this game is now over 16 months old (at least on the 360) and still $60, but if there's one 
 game that's worth it, it's this one. there is just so much to do in this that it will last you 
 at least 2 or 3 times longer than most other (lengthy) games out there. combine that with top production 
 value and it's an easy 10
  
  tilt-this game lives up to the hype. it is quite possibly the best game of the new generation. 
 maybe it's not for everyone, but if you like role playing or open ended games pick this game up. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ExtremeMagnion2
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  at first when i heard there was an Oblivion for PS3, i was kinda sceptical, not in a bad way, but 
 i already own the PC version, and i thought that the PS3 version wouldnt be as good as the PC because 
 it's pretty much the same game without the Cheats, or the ability to Mod, but i was wrong, i bought 
 the game and i was instantly absorbed into the great graphics, soundtrack and very very long gameplay. 
 even after completing the main story i was still playing it to get as much stat upgrades as possible 
 and doing as many quests as i could find. This game is truley one of the very first games worthy 
 to be called A NEXT GEN title and an RPG title. You don't even have to be an RPG fan to enjoy this, 
 you just have to be a gamer.
  Although i sometimes find that the PC version has alot of extra things to do the the console version, 
 i still prefer the console version because of the lack of lags and the fact that i can play it 
 on a big screen.
  for all the RPG lovers and the Gamers out there, i absolutely reccommend this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: venom3161994316
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 2, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  good pretty much everything
  
  bad i dont like it as much as dmc3
  
  all i can say is holy $4it!!!! i cant belive that an rpg game can be this superb!!!! so far the 
 2nd best ps3 game and my 3rd fav game. great sound and graphics. awsome creatures and intense and 
 fun battles. 9.5??? i think not this game is truly remarkable and derves a 10/10. but dont be mistaken 
 i still like dmc3 and ninjqa gaiden sigma better. so many cool levels. it had a great story with 
 a nice long campaign and great multiplayer!!!!!! any one with a ps3 or is getting one put oblivion 
 on ur list. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2007 5:08 am PT
Review:  Drawbacks; Not in 1080 format, old Generation 720p so the 360 wins there, although much smoother 
 gameplay than the 360. Less lag than the 360 with shorter load times. Comes with expansion pak 
 for added hours over the 360 version. Looks very good in 720p but diffinately alot more 'liny' 
 in 480p and is quite a bit more obvious and makes you wonder why they dont just release all games 
 in all formats like X360 does. I can play Virtua Fighter Ps3 or any ps2 games in 1080 format but 
 not Oblivion or Resistance, etc. A difinate must own for the PS3 and is about all there is too 
 own at this point. I waited till the price went down instead of bying it right away because I dont 
 support a partial format system. This is a great game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ignoman
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 17, 2007 3:11 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls games have always been right up my alley. My love for games of this type started 
 back when I got the demo of an obscure abandonware title called Amulets and Armor. The first-person 
 exploration, huge dungeons and tons of items really made it something special (even if it was butt 
 ugly.) Fast foreward almost a decade, and I've discovered Morrowind, which is this game's immediate 
 predecessor. I've played it on Xbox and PC, and I love it to death. A huge world with too much 
 to do, so much to see, and so much to steal, loot and kill. I went back in the meantime and played 
 Arena and Daggerfall, both great games in their own right.
  
  The question is: does Oblivion live up to its legacy? The short answer is yes.
  
  Oblivion 
 takes some of the issues that Morrowind had and scorches them with the light of next-gen beauty. 
 Oblivion is a gorgeous game. The sights, the sounds, the characters and the monsters are all well-detailed 
 and wonderfully animated. There's still quests to be done and tombs to be explored everywhere. 
 The world feels almost alive... everything can be moved, taken or fought if you are so inclined. 
 It's the sort of open-ended game that RPG players dream about. Avoid the main plotline and you 
 could easily clock 100 or more hours in side quests, errands and dungeons. First-person combat 
 is as nuts as ever... greatly improved with new animations and better graphics.
  
  So, Oblivion took the great game that was Morrowind, with a new story and a great improvement over 
 the rather drab scenery and animations and made an absolutely stellar game, right? Well... yes... 
 kinda...
  
  As absorbing and wonderful as Oblivion is, very soon the glaring issues of her underlying gameplay 
 mechanics will become apparent. You see, Oblivion has committed what I consider to be the cardinal 
 sin of level-based RPG gaming: scaled encounters. What does this mean? Well, it means that whenever 
 you encounter another person or creature in the game, that creature's level is set relative to 
 your own. When you step out of the door at level 1, your opponents will be weak and sporting basic 
 gear. The guard inside the town gate will be a real challenge to take down, as he is much better 
 trained than you. Come and visit these same places at level 30, and all of a sudden those bandits 
 will be sporting massive demonic armor, imps and rats will be replaced by ferocious demons, and 
 that guard will STILL be much better trained than you. The same thing goes for shops and treasure 
 chests. Loot a dungeon chest at level 1, get two gold pieces. Loot it later, find the sword of 
 demon-busting majesty. Every shop in town will have the most powerful magic weapons, when before 
 they could barely keep daggers and clubs in stock.
  
  No doubt this tactic was implemented because of Oblivion's world design. Oblivion seems a much 
 smaller world than Morrowind. Though Morrowind also scaled encounters somewhat, it wasn't nearly 
 as severe. The world was huge, so they protected players by keeping the biggest threats far away 
 from where you started. Oblivion is smaller and has fast travel... any place is accessible at the 
 touch of a button. It's nice when you're in a hurry to finish quests, but it necessitated a change 
 that brings the game to its knees.
  
  So, that doesn't sound so bad you're thinking. Well, its not, but it definitely impacts how you 
 play the game. You see, you level up by increasing your selected skills. You increase your skills 
 by actually practicing them in the game... fight things and your blade and armor skills will rise. 
 Cast spells and your magic skills will rise. However, as you level up, so do the monsters. If you 
 do not plan ahead, level up too quickly, or do not level up your hit points and combat skills, 
 the game will get harder. Enemies will begin to outclass you. Ironically, this can actually penalize 
 you for picking skills you plan on using... you'll level up too fast! As the game wears on, things 
 will start to get rediculous. Bandits will still feel the need to mug you, even though they're 
 wearing gear totaling 50,000 gold in value. Shops will altogether cease to carry basic items. As 
 your character grows, so does the world. It kindof deflates the joy of leveling up and growing 
 a powerful character. Some people say that the game is actually EASIER to beat when you are level 
 1 than level 40.
  
  In the end, I didn't let it ruin the game for me. It's still a wonderfully absorbing and complex 
 game, and I could definitely recommend to almost anyone. It has a wonderful story and exciting 
 fantasy gameplay, all wrapped in an extremely beautiful and detailed world.
  
  The Verdict:
  
  This game is almost required playing for RPG fans, but I would recommend this 
 game to anyone... it's simply one of the best next-gen experiences to be had right now.
  
  If you have a PC capable of running it, I would suggest buying Oblivion for PC instead. There have 
 been several mods and patches released that correct some of the game's underlying mechanics. I 
 played the PS3 choice, which is probably the best of the console versions, due to shorter load 
 times and the Knights of Nine expansion content.
  
  You might also consider waiting for the Game of the Year edition to come out, as it will be the 
 same price but include even more content.
  
  +Amazingly deep world, so much to interact with
  +Good story
  +Beautiful graphics and decent 
 sound effects
  +Nearly endless supply of things to do/explore
  -Game world is smaller than previous iterations
  -Game mechanics are simplified slightly from 
 Morrowind
  -Scaled encounters/treasure ruin the incentive to level up
  -Scaled encounters/treasure destroys consistency
  -Slightly less freedom than in previous games 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: worm658
Rating: 6.4
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:43 pm PT
Review:  This game was both amazing and boring at the same time. Oblivion is highly addicting and I found 
 myself playing many hours at a time doing random side quests. On the other hand, although it was 
 highly addicting and some of the quests were fun, the world of Oblivion seemed overly-big, monotonous 
 and filled with a whole bunch of .well nothing. Often I would be running through great big areas 
 of just scenery with no enemies to be found. Sure the scenery was nice to look at, for a while, 
 but after you played it for over 3 hours it becomes really friggin boring. This is mainly because 
 the scenery hardly ever changes! Most of it was just forest and then there were some mountainous 
 and swampy areas. Some people like the overly huge area filled with nothing, but its not for me. 
 Oblivion is a nice addition to the Playstation 3, but if youre into classic RPGs with a thick 
 story line, I would look else where. To me Oblivions storyline felt really short, hollow and slow 
 paced. Not to mention, every friggin side quest involved running through a cave, which werent 
 much more exciting then the rest of the world, slashing away at the same 3 types of enemies. To 
 make things even more exciting, I would return to finish the quest just to get a new quest which 
 consisted of the exact same thing. To make things worst, the quests didnt have any rewards, or 
 well at least very few of them did. Even when they did have rewards you feel like turning off the 
 game because theyre so incredibly useless. But hey just because this game wasnt for me I cant 
 say dont consider purchasing Oblivion because apparently a lot of people like this game. But personally 
 I wish I could have turned back time, saved myself $80 and rent the game first. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wavemastermlt
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 14, 2007 11:26 am PT
Review:  I use a mage argonian current ly lvl 10 and i have 70 hrs of play i cant get enough of it with 
 the arena the plains of oblivion or just plain exploring the world this game is too addictive and 
 if you wanna get a game and finish quick dont get the elder scrolls. I am currently exploring and 
 hunting horses and minataurs and my summon lvl is to its max i love my lord dremora summon and 
 he is my trusty companion.
  
  i also do thief work sometimes but i love the mages guild i really dont like the knights of the 
 nine stuff and im currently getiin my destruction magic up. but i may go into battle axes just 
 to haveanother skill but im gonna keep goin with pure mage. im also hunting new dungeon and im 
 treasure hunting for more potions and alchemy ingrediants. and also i have a good alteration skill 
 and a fast horse i used a swrd once for one mission and almost died. and the plains of oblivion 
 arnt all fun its quite serious because the difficulty is so much harder there i hate it. and my 
 argonian has great resistansce because of my robe and shoes. I love this game and cant stop playing. 
 the best game i ever played so far and cant get enough. Get this game AND U WONT REGRET IT ITS 
 WORTH the money its about 55 $$ but its wort h 10000$$
  
  i paid for and im still playing with my argonian and im not gonna stop. Mages are so much more 
 trusty than anytihing to me my bro made a melee person and can kill minitaurs easier but i still 
 think mages are better. right now im trying to kill at least 50 of those things i love killing 
 minotaurs!!!!! and hunting giant rats is great for new people at this game. but i do prefer minotaurs, 
 they can be found on the road to places but you gotta search hard. you should also search for new 
 enimies its almost endless possibilities for enimies so search like crazy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dino213
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 12, 2007 1:56 pm PT
Review:  Elder scrolls Oblivion is an game that is to be remembered for years to come. There are so many 
 aspects to this game it's unbelievable. You can go anywhere in the magical land of Tamriel from 
 deep dark caves to lush woodlands. There are lots of towns and cities all with intriguing people 
 and places. Firstly, there are many quests in this huge game that can be found almost anywhere. 
 Sometimes there are guild quests from the fighters guild, thieves guild, mages guild and the dark 
 brotherhood not to mention quests from countless other factions or you can simply go around talking 
 to people and stumble across an adventure. The course you take with this game isn't set and apart 
 from the tutorial like section at the start of the game you can do anything. You can be sinister 
 assasin to a nimble thief. There is a main quest of course. The Emperor of Tamriel gives you a 
 task before he is murdered. You must close the Gates of Oblivion, the gateway to an alternate dimension 
 filled with terrifying beasts and dangers. You can also buy, steal or scavenge weapons, armor and 
 other things on your way. You can enchant them to enhance them. There are so many more things I 
 could talk about but then you'd be here reading forever . Anyway, you must get this game . Its 
 definately worth your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NewPatriot
Rating: 8.1
Date: Aug 10, 2007 10:41 am PT
Review:  The Good
  Some quests are interesting without fighting (swinging your sword like a monkey and eventually 
 blocking) .
  
  The Bad
  This is like a soulless version of Zelda, with a monotonous character, huge world, many quests, 
 many items, many hours watching the menu screen when really all you wanna do is play. Too much 
 of everything, but does too much mean fun? i guess not...
  
  Summary
  They were extremely focused on the small details and on making a huge game, that they forgot to 
 put some fun in it. A more agile character and less menu protagonism would improve the game greatly. 
 After choosing items and making potions you are ready for a fight, however, they do not deliver, 
 they are short and repetitive, they should be more fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: da_illest101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 14, 2007 8:26 pm PT
Review:  The elder scroll 4: oblivion is a rare game that absorb ur life like this game does. I'm not very 
 far in the game but so far this game as been nothing other then intriguing and magical
  
  gameplay: the fights in that game are quite interesting. That u decide to use swords, axes, bow 
 and arrow or magic, the fighting is always fun. I play my game on easy because fights can't get 
 ridiculusly longs at higher difficulties. The level of details of that game is outstanding. The 
 fact that most items are movable is incredible. graphics: drop dead gorgeous, the level that next 
 gen console can achieve is incredible.
  
  This games is not a rental it's a must buy . if you don't have it go buy it right now 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rallymonkeez
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 5, 2007 8:34 pm PT
Review:  Let me explain that this is not the first time I have played Oblivion. In 2006, my friend let me 
 borrow the PC version, and I honestly did not get very into it. Now that I have a PS3, I had to 
 give it another try. This game is completely immersive in every way possible. I purchased the game 
 three days ago, and have already played 10+ hours. To be honest, I was skeptical of this game, 
 possibly because it's such a daunting task to uptake. The game is massive, and I'm sure this is 
 the millionth time you've heard that. However, the Knights of Nine add on was incredibly fun, and 
 I just completed it. It's a wonderful quest to get acquainted with the game, and how much there 
 is to do. Graphically wise, the PS3 version is right up there if not ahead of the PC version no 
 matter what graphics card you have. They are GORGEOUS
  
  Gameplay is absolutely wonderful. If you want to go kill things, you go kill things. If you want 
 to explore, well you have a damn lot of exploring to do. The other great thing is if you want to 
 fast travel and get quests done instead of taking the high road, you can do just that. If you want 
 the game to hold your hand, you can tell it how firm or loose a grip you want. The music is phenomenal. 
 The soundtrack is inspiring, and HD sound is wonderful.
  
  I really don't even need to describe detail, you know how immersive it is.
  
  If you don't 
 have a game for your PS3 yet, get this game, I kid you not. You will have countless hours of fun. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shock-nick1991
Rating: 9.6
Date: Aug 1, 2007 10:10 am PT
Review:  with the new knights of nine quest added in this already great game with touched up graphics the 
 actual story mode will take you 70 hours to complete with the added side missions it should take 
 you around 140 hours and thats a whole lot of value in this game and replay value is great also 
 because you get to choose your abilities before you go out to do missions 7 main abilities that 
 you can try out each time you replay the game. the graphics are amazing for one of the biggest 
 maps in a game a definate must have for your ps3 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Misfit1119
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:18 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls series has been a constant, but overlooked, face on the PC market. While the 
 games were incredibly innovative in their approach to RPGs they mostly seemed to appeal to a niche 
 group. Not everyone was interested in, or even capable of, playing a game as open world as these 
 games. When I was around 16 I found myself totally lost playing Daggerfall. It took a long time 
 for me to really appreciate what these games have to offer. Thanks to Morrowind and now Oblivion 
 these games have fully entered the mainstream of video games.
  
  Much like the other games in the series, Oblivion focuses on one continent in the Elder Scrolls 
 world and the dangers that are befalling it. Oblivion tells the story of the mainland, Cyrodil, 
 and the assassination of the Emperor, Uriel Septim. With his death, and the death of his heirs, 
 the nation is thrown into turmoil while the forces of Oblivion, the realm of chaos, threaten the 
 entirety of the land. You start the game as a prisoner in the Imperial City and are quickly pulled 
 into the situation, eventually having to shoulder the burden of saving the world (arent we always?) .
 
  
  From this point you are thrown into a world typical of the Elder Scrolls; a giant free form and 
 open world where you can do pretty much whatever you want, whenever you want. You can be a hero 
 and go around completing quests to save people or you can be a villain, going around and murdering 
 people and stealing their stuff. It really is up to you how you wish to proceed and both ways have 
 rewards as well as consequences. More or less the entire game is open to you from the get go, so 
 you are never limited in what you want to do.
  
  One change made to this game from previous entries in the series is the scaled difficulty and item 
 acquisitions. If you are a level one character then going into a dungeon means you will fight level 
 one enemies and acquire weak equipment. Should you instead do that dungeon later on (or return 
 later in the game as many dungeons restock on enemies and treasure) you will fight harder enemies 
 and get better treasure. Certain items are consistent in that no matter when you go to get them, 
 they are simply set. While this makes it so that you are very rarely in over your head when you 
 adventure into a dungeon it is also kind of unrealistic. For a game that really lets you do whatever 
 you want, this level of hokey unrealism just kind of ruins the experience. I wont say that I enjoyed 
 getting my behind handed to me by super hard enemies, early on in Morrowind or Daggerfall, but 
 it was realistic. Its far more believable that, when exploring strange dungeons and ruins, you 
 might end up over your head.
  
  To coincide with this, the game has made a bunch of changes to all of its systems but the most 
 notable changes are to the combat system. Rather than standing there and hacking at each other, 
 missing at point blank range, this game has a pretty cool combat system. Running back and forth, 
 sniping enemies with arrows, using your shield to block attacks and then hacking them apart this 
 game is a lot of fun to kill enemies in.
  
  The biggest change to this game from the previous ones is the inclusion of skill benefits. When 
 your skills get to certain ranks you will gain a benefit from it. So when your weapon skill gets 
 up to 51 out of 100, you will gain the ability to make a special attack, while getting a 100 in 
 the Athletics skill allows you to do crazy things like jump on water to stay afloat. These benefits 
 dont really change anything but they do make dealing with certain situations a lot easier.
  
  When you hear people raving about the beautiful graphics in this game, they are most certainly 
 not kidding around. This game looks incredible and standing on a cliff and looking down on a mountain 
 valley is fairly breathtaking. The assorted greenery, lakes and even waterfalls all look absolutely 
 wonderful. While I wont say that the enemies are beautiful, quite hideous in fact, they look great, 
 showcasing the power of the next gen systems and attention to detail that Bethesda put into this 
 game. The finale of this game pretty much is one of the high points of my gaming life with how 
 wonderful it looked. If this section, or the scenery in this game doesnt impress you, you must 
 not have a pulse.
  
  The sound is just as incredible as the graphics. Pretty much every single person in this game is 
 voice acted; there is no times where you are simply reading text. Even if it is something as simple 
 as the NPCs that you come across in town they are voice. Now, admittedly, there are only about 
 four to six different voices for all the townspeople but its still nice to not have to be reading 
 text and dealing with flat conversation. The NPCs will even have conversations amongst each other. 
 These are a bit stilted and their pre-generated responses dont always match up perfectly but its 
 a step in the right direction.
  While it is mostly praiseworthy the AI in this game is a bit silly at times. Basically the bad 
 guys will tend to go after you or any other NPC labeled as a good guy by the game and the good 
 guys will do the same, except going after bad guys. So if you are walking around and a bandit sees 
 you, the bandit will attack you. But you might come across that same bandit going after a member 
 of the Imperial Guard due to him running across the bandit in the wilderness.
  
  This sounds great but some really silly situations come up. While standing in town I was attacked 
 by an enemy. When the guards came to help me they fired their bows and accidentally hit each other 
 with their bows. So once the enemy was dead, a huge fight in the middle of the town broke out with 
 town guard fighting town guard. By the time it was over there were about ten dead guards, whom 
 I promptly ravaged for their equipment and sold it to make a small fortune. It worked out well 
 for me and it was funny as hell but it was incredibly retarded.
  
  Oblivion is a good game but it isnt really what I would have expected of it. Basically they traded 
 in a bunch of the depth and mechanics from the previous games for ease of use and accessibility. 
 While it is nice to see the game do so well some of these changes, frankly, suck. Those who come 
 into this game expecting to use certain skills, such as Enchant, will find them frustratingly gone. 
 As a long-standing fan of the series it was hard to see some of these things being absent. However 
 I cannot deny that, standing on its own, this is an incredible game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bradley7777
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 15, 2007 4:59 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls: Oblivion is a wicked game. It will keep you going and going and going for ages. 
 The 'live your own life' motto is what attracted me to the game. It was alright at first, but when 
 you get outside into the 16 squared world the first sight it is breathtaking (I have to admit it 
 is a much better feeling if it is day, if its night, wait until the late am times) This is when 
 you can p*** off and do what you like. There are so many choices you can do, thats the best feature. 
 You could be a calm, passive citizen who does as his told, or a thief who can make a mint out pickpocketing 
 or breaking into people's houses, but if you get caught you can kiss that dream goodbye, or you 
 can lead a much bloodier life fighting in the arena or join the fighters guild. For those prats 
 out there who prefer thought before blade, they can join the Mages guild, or you could just do 
 the main quests. Also scattered throughout the land are gates to Oblivion. If you're posh use this 
 world but normal people, use the word Hell, because this is what it basically is. Oblivion is the 
 most dangerous realm ruled over by 16 Daedra princes, so be prepared when you enetr these gates. 
 Overall summary, a no.1 for RPG fans and if you do buy this game, don't expect yourself to clock 
 it easily 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SebastianBlaise
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  Now I can go on and on about what makes this game amazing. Lets be honest here the PS3 has the 
 best oblivion; next to a supreme computer respectfully. I've played all; I hope all... not sure..., 
 of the elder scroll games (even the mini-game types) and found that this was the greatest of them 
 all (well I hope they get better than worse - what an already know that answer) . Well anyhoot, 
 uhm I'm heading to bed since humans need sleep (dang-narbit) so yeah, just felt like giving the 
 public a little of my view of oblivion.
  
  
  From my experience I must say that it was a game made to be superior. I most of all enjoyed the 
 transition to the ps3 (better graph's, etc.) , for the elder scrolls series is one of my favorites! 
 You'll enjoy this game and it never ending to shock and awe, with its unlimited customization. 
 Now get out there and find me a unicorn! =)
  
  Ps: don't forget about the amazing soundtrack ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smoke-demon
Rating: 7.9
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion allows the RPGer to dive into the world and then shape it as they see fit. The main quest 
 was great but the side quest made the game for me. There are several diffrent guilds along with 
 several diffrent attack/ playstyles. I found the dark brotherhood to be the most interesting. Sneaking 
 around killing various people for money. I also found another aspect very kool. You can become 
 a vampire in the game which allowes the role player to develop his feal of the world to a greater 
 extent. I would take shelter during the day and then at night if need be i would feed on a begger. 
 Not the greatest of meals but it would allow me to walk in the light once more. You have to be 
 carefull about who you kill in the game tho you may need them later then again its your world and 
 the game will not allow you to kill key players in the story line. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snwboardn08
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 27, 2007 10:43 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is most likely the greatest RPG on earth as of now.
  You start off in a prison for some odd reason (like the other
  elder scroll games) where you 
 will slowly progress and customize your character. The main plot is an amazing one which will keep 
 you playing
  for hours on end. The mystical story will make you think and fight through the massive quest. Not 
 only is the main
  quest an amazing one and worth the 60 dollars at that, but
  the side quest add on so much more play time. The replay value is probably the greatest i have 
 seen besides halo of
  course. Oblivion is a must own one of a kind masterpiece that should
  not be missed. You will receive an amazing amount of game play time. Ive already waisted about 
 2 days of my life playing the
  game (48 hours) and still I have not even reached the tip of
  the iceberg on this one of a kind 
 Role Playing Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: evklinken
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 27, 2007 9:21 am PT
Review:  Writing a review about The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is hard. Because you have so many options: 
 telling about the stunning graphics? Writing about the success on both the PC and 360? No, I would 
 start with this: on the PS3 it is all better. Alright, there is no horse armor (but who cares anyway, 
 Shadowmare -the horse you get after a certain quest in the Dark Brotherhood- can't even die) but 
 that is not a problem. Let's talk about the details in the game:
  
  Gameplay: Just brilliant. The controls are great, casting spells is easy, fighting is easy but 
 fun, levelling works well (finally no experience points! Because if you jump your way through the 
 game you will get high Athletics and Acrobatics) and it is just fun to play.
  
  Graphics: Wonderful. Alright, games like The Darkness are absolutely better looking games, but 
 still it looks amazing. It is a free-roaming game, and most of the time those games don't look 
 so good (GTA, Crackdown) .
  
  Sound: Great too. It is very impressive that every word in the game is well voiced. There aren't 
 so much different actors, but still. And the sound of actions, like swinging a sword, is well done.
 
  
  Value: Extremely high. This game offers 200+ hours of gameplay, and it is a classic already.
 
  
  Tilt: After you've played this game, you will think that it is boring that you can't breathe underwater 
 or cast spells on others. It is probably the best game ever unleashed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: himankz
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 25, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  This game is totally outstanding everything about it, the graphics the special features. Wow what 
 a outstanding game and it even has won a reward in gamespot. Before you buy any other game and 
 if you dont have this for the ps3 your just stupid, this game is prob the best game in all the 
 consoles. Truley outstanding.
  
  Graphics: I love all the graphics, very intense graphics and you sort of feel like you're in the 
 game, the character looks truley amazing and it's sort of like another unseen amazing world.
  
  Gameplay: Another beauty, everything about the game play is GREAT! 100/100 for game play.
 
  
  Sound: One of the things that makes good games bad and bad games good, and in this case it's made 
 a good game better. The graphics are amazin. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sephiroth2007
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 24, 2007 10:07 am PT
Review:  This game is awsome, the map is huge there are alot of towns and guilds to join. every house can 
 be broken into execpt ones u need the key for, all most all the NPCs can be killed and wiped from 
 existence. Certain NPCs cannot be killed because they are quest ppl, u can kill these later on. 
 some NPCs will respawn. I have to warn u don't go on a murderous rampage at the beginning because 
 u can end up killing someone needed for a future quest, it happened to me and it costs my house 
 furniture. Yes, indeed u can have ur own house and furnish. unlike its pc and 360 predecessers 
 there are now patches yet, but shivering isles is indeed coming to PSN. u should buy this game 
 if u like GTA like games and med evil games. this game is really long and it will get tiring when 
 that happens try the main quest or the knights of the nine quest. the is not the best sometimes 
 u see there lips moving and captions but no voice. and if to much stuff happens like alot of ppl 
 fighting the game will lag. the game will also lag if to much stuff is dropped on the ground. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shroom76
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 21, 2007 9:13 pm PT
Review:  First of all, let me say, the fps view really got on my nerves most of the time. there i said it.
 
  
  that being said, oblivion rules and you should play A version of it. there is lots to do and it 
 can keep you occupied for a very long time, but the main quest is pretty lame with a non-compelling 
 story which drove me away form it several time to become guildmaster in every faction.
  
  there arent really any boss fights. i hated that, and it was very anti climactic to have you go 
 through an hour and a half long cave to just get what you came for without fighting a big baddie.
 
  
  the ending is very stupid and predictable
  i found more drama in math class-_-
  
  but besides the main story you can have a lot a lot of fun in this game, and you will probably 
 end up going through it 2 or 3 times because playing melee, archer, and mage are all completely 
 different. the faction quests are fun and attempting to kill every character in the game is fun 
 too, except you cant, but it was fun to try.
  
  dont let the bad rule out the good, i love oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_grist
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a great game which has little bugs, with the exeption of the duplication 
 glitch and money glitch.
  
  Using the glitches to an advantage will ruin the game as it defeats the point in earning money.
 
  
  Its a long and great game which is well worth playing.
  
  Also easy to learn the controls but as you progress through the game you get to learn different 
 types of controls and advantages of using them.
  
  If you own a Playstation 3 then this game is a Must Buy and should be explored in every way possible 
 to learn the ways of Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobz101
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 20, 2007 2:27 pm PT
Review:  Now this is what I'm talking about a first person freeroaming Role Playing Game where you can create 
 your own character and do absolutley what ever you want to do, whether that is the storyline, sub 
 missions or roam around and kill animals and monsters.
  
  This game has got some of the easiest controls ever and you can make the game easier or harder 
 whenever you want in the options menu.
  
  The storyline itself is quite long and then add on the sub missions and the free roaming and you 
 have yourself a good 150 hours or more and then you can just try it with different powers and different 
 creatures. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Boy_Man07
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jul 20, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  I had never played an Elder Scrolls game. This was the first. I bought it because of the reviews. 
 When i first played, i got all excited. Amazing, superb soundtrack and sound! Great graphics and 
 gameplay. I think i took one hour to create my character (so many choices) , and then, the party 
 began. I can't even explain the feeling here, in this review, when i looked to the sky and saw 
 the stars, the mountains, the sky, the clouds, the river, the grass... everything so beautiful! 
 And the soundtrack helps too... it delivers the sensation you feel when you are fighting, stealing, 
 sneaking or just walking, looking at the amazing world. The loadings are short and quick. The only 
 problems are the loading area , because you're walking and then, suddenly, a loading area appears 
 on the screen and everything slows down (but that's very quickly) , and, for example, you steal a 
 horse, go to another town and leave the horse somewhere safe, when you come back to the horse, 
 if you choose to ride it, people will call you a thief and they'll want to kill you (even your friends 
 and people who saw you arriving on the horse) ... i mean, how come they know it's a stolen horse??! 
 But that's O. K. The world is gorgeous and big, very big. You can do whatever you want, whenever 
 you want. You can follow the story or/and buy a house, do nothing but ride horses, steal things, 
 do some side quests, ... it's up to you. You're free. There are lots of weapons, shields, clothes, 
 spells, and other things. And the options... almost unlimited.
  
  Graphics: everything's so beautiful here... gorgeous!
  Sound: excelent, amazing, astonishing!
 
  Gameplay: could not be better... it's great! The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a great game that 
 features an amazing worl, where you can do whatever you want. It's up to you. One of the best RPG! 
 I was very surprised when i played this game... reading a review is one thing, playing the game 
 is another completely different! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benny_Blakk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 19, 2007 6:24 pm PT
Review:  Prior to The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion I had never played a PC-styled RPG. Well if there were 
 a title to convince me that they are worth a try, Oblivion is an excellent selling point.
  
  The main element of gameplay that one will notice right out the gate that differentiates Oblivion 
 from your standard RPG is the default camera. Its set to first person which looking back at it 
 sent a message saying prepare to immerse yourself in this world! Using your sword, shield, or magic 
 is as easy as the push of a button. You can set a group of weapons and magic to your D-pad to make 
 switching weapons and magic during the course of battle quicker. The only gripes I had with control 
 throughout the course of the game was certain enemies being able to dodge very quickly and move 
 outside of your line of view. This only happened much later in the game as the enemies in the game 
 level up as you do and become faster, so its actually a detail that makes sense.
  
  From the outset, the story engulfs you and gives you a sense of urgency. The voice acting is solid, 
 to further solidify the plot. EVERY character in the games has at least a comment to say to you, 
 although many share the same voice. Thats a bad that I gladly took along with good because I've 
 been longing for an adventure/RPG to use this approach. Many adventure games include irrelevant 
 details into the main plot just for the sake of longevity . Oblivion completely sides-steps this 
 common blunder and sticks to the point. There are many cinematic and sentimental moments in the 
 game that serve as an icing on the cake. One might think thats its a bit excessive, but its so 
 well executed that you can't help but appreciate it all.
  
  The graphics of this gem are going to be mentioned for a long time. This game is just simply gorgeous! 
 From the sequence of character's mouths while speaking, to the sunset, to how objects off in the 
 distance come into focus ( although there is some pop-up , it is minimal) . One time while playing, 
 I decided to stroll the mountains at nightfall in 3rd person view and stumbled an abandoned camp. 
 The sight of the moons in the sky was great alone, but I felt the need to play with the camera 
 and at a certain angle, you can see a nearby city below. I couldn't believe that a game could look 
 so great prior to that moment. All in all, this is a great title to enjoy from start to finish. 
 Its more of an adventure than a straight up RPG, but that helps widen the game's appeal to those 
 who are not too fond of traditional role-playing game. You must play this game if you like a good 
 story and good graphics. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigc072005
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 18, 2007 10:19 am PT
Review:  its a great game.... but the lag in it is real bad at times.... when i say better on 360 its because 
 on the oblivion gates on the ps3... its lagss ALOT! and its **** annoying but the 360 does to just 
 not as bad. It is a real good game tho even though i hate **** RPG's like gay WoW and all that... but 
 the one thing i hate about oblivion is the freakin... lock picking and all that but it is.... again 
 a great game got some bugs still but what game doesnt....9 for me! OBLIVION FOR 360 IS BETTER THEN 
 THE PS3 VERSION GET OVER IT@!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlueAtlas
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jul 18, 2007 12:25 am PT
Review:  I could easily see why this game was named game of the year. This game is huge and you can easily 
 log in 100+ or maybe even 200+ hours if you wanted to. What I like most about this game is that 
 it takes a chapter out of the GTA series. Once you start the game you have total freedom on what 
 you want to do. It doesn't matter what level you're on the game adjusts the level of the creatures 
 or enemies you encounter will always have a fair advantage against you. Some people may argue this 
 is a bad thing because what is the point of leveling up and obtaining new weapons when the enemies 
 will still be as strong as you. I can sympathize with some of those people, but I like the idea 
 that there is a challenge throughout the story. The graphics and draw distance in the game is really 
 well done. However, the game will start to get boring after a while when you notice the things 
 you are doing for each quest gets repetitive. Pretty much all you're doing for almost every quest 
 is going to some distant cave and retrieving something or killing someone in the cave. It does 
 get dull for a while which is why I put down the game. I didn't really get any more satisfaction 
 when I finished a quest, because I felt like I've done it already. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knicknut17
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 17, 2007 11:29 pm PT
Review:  The direction that Bethesda Softworks took when it created Oblivion is bold and ambitious. Overall, 
 the developers have done an overwhelmingly good job at recreating a living, breathing world for 
 players to explore. I have spent a good 50 hours with the game and I have yet to scratch the surface 
 of the main quest. I have instead devoted my time to advancing the in the Thieves Guild. The cool 
 thing about this game is that you can do anything you want to do. You can be good or bad. You can 
 fight with weapons, magic, or guile. You can pick locks, pick pocket people, combine herbs and 
 chemicals to make potions and poisons, you can do just about anything you can imagine. That is 
 what is cool about Oblivion. I'm sure one day I'll get around to completing the main quest, but 
 the point I'm trying to get across is that Oblivion is a game that plays the player. You get what 
 you put in. Yes this game has its flaws, but it is so ambitious and gets so many things right that 
 its flaws are somewhat irrelevant. Great game that is totally worth checking out. Runs much better 
 than my Xbox 360 copy. Game no longer freezes at random places... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iMacBot
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:46 pm PT
Review:  This game went from PC to XBOX 360 and has finally landed on the PS3 (soon on PSP) . This version 
 is very similar to the other versions and deserves as much of a good rating as the others. The 
 gameplay is awesome and immersive. The graphics are absolutely beautiful but gettin a little outdated. 
 The sound is good, especially on a 5.1 system. The story is what I consider to be the best one 
 of the 4 titles so far in the series. Your options are limitless and you are free to do whatever 
 you desire, as long as you don't get killed in the process. This game has a lot of replay value, 
 never will you play the game twice the same. Just be warned... the game is very time consuming 
 if you want to play it the right way. Have fun! This game is definately worth its price! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gladmoring
Rating: 9.2
Date: Jul 16, 2007 8:28 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a wide, free open world game that offers much too do. Since the PS3 version has the 
 Knights of the Nine expansion built in, you will play this game, become addicted and never see 
 your family again. Oblivion has great graphics for it's type of game, and a well done combat system. 
 You can spend so much time doing side quests that you don't have to do the main quest for many 
 hours. You will spend much of your time designing you character but there is so much to do you 
 can get confused. You will get used to the controls but to learn everything might take you time. 
 My biggest complaint is there is TOO MUCH VARIETY! This may seem obsurd but some player will agree 
 also the combat sytem will feel simplistic at times but great game.
  
  Overall- The best RPG I played, Superb game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DebitMann
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 16, 2007 2:39 pm PT
Review:  I would have to say that the depth and utter endlessness of this game blew my mind. There were 
 no glitches that i found and being able to see ones equipment was aesthetically pleasing. Visuals, 
 no words need to be spoken, the extreme attention to detail down to every plant has not been seen 
 to date. The depth was endless, once again, and i could not have hoped for a better game to play.
 
  
  There was one thing i didn't like though, and that was i was a custom warrior redgaurd and i had 
 a sucky healing spell. The thing that was booty was that i couldn't buy a better one because of 
 my magic, but i suppose that was poor planning when i chose my class. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetombradyhate
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jul 14, 2007 4:16 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is simply put an epic RPG that should be owned by anyone with the mildest interest in 
 RPG's. As far as RPG's go Oblivion is virtually flawless in terms of game play. In addition to 
 the that the graphics and sound are also top notch. Of course all RPG fans should own this game 
 but thats a given. If you have never played an RPG before this is a good place to start. But if 
 you are not previously a fan of this game give it some time to grow on you before you throw it 
 aside. I know that one of my friends and my brother gave up on this game and went back to a shooting 
 game. If you let yourself play it for a while you will become immersed in and addicted to the world 
 of Oblivion. My advice to all PS3 owners: get this game if you have yet to play it on PC or 360 
 unless you hate RPG's. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katarn95
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 13, 2007 12:38 pm PT
Review:  I am very selective in the RPGs that I play, This one is quite possible the best, maybe though 
 it really good. Worth the money for I have been playing this game so far for approximately 60 hours 
 and I am not close to being done. The graphics are at times jaw dropping. Nothing like standing 
 atop of the Jerall Mountains on your trusty steed, in your armor that you quested for, looking 
 over Cryodiil. So much quests and interesting characters with their own story to tell. Oodles of 
 items that are beautifully crafted. Great music that creates an epic feel. The large environments 
 that are free to explore along with the story help create that as well. At the very least a must 
 play for all gamers to see if you like it. Best game of 2006. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Link_tha_Gamer
Rating: 8.7
Date: Jul 8, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  I played this game on the pc a year ago and it always felt to me like i should be playing this 
 game on a console so i quit after playing 70 hours: P. Now a year later i started playing oblivion 
 all over again. I played it first just on a standard tv and does look great. It was a 15 inch tv 
 btw. I bought a 23 inch hdtv a month ago and damn it still looks great for over a year old game. 
 My older brother hardly plays games on the ps3, but this is one of the games he is playing and 
 that says something, at least for me. Lets head on to the game it self shall we?
  I don't need to tell you how it all starts and what the storyline is because by now you know it. 
 This game is all about putting YOU in Tamriel. Be what you want to be, kill mud crabs for a living, 
 help people or just kill beggars. I just love the do what i like feeling, i am a lvl 6 battlemage 
 btw, i was lvl 3 a couple of game hours ago ( i have spend more then 50 hours in my character) 
 and damn it just got a lot harder when i got from 3=&gt;6. That is what i like on the game, your 
 enemies get harder to. But there is one thing that is stupid, how does a regular bandit get glass 
 armor?? I know i am still lvl 6 atm, but i was lvl 22 on the pc.
  So besides the armor issue the game has it is a must buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: punkhead66
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jul 7, 2007 10:02 pm PT
Review:  this game is a rpg but in first person. its about you have to find the kings heir and close the 
 gates of oblivion.
  
  this game is awsome a big rpg game you can just to main game but you can also do the side quests 
 which can take hours to do. you have an upgared skills sytem by battling things and people.
  
  the graphics is awsome on the ps3 for this game it looks great and its great to be on the ps3.
 
  
  what you can do in this game is massive there is so much you can do in this game like you can watch 
 people and steal from other people. there are lots of weapons you can get, you can also have magic 
 likke fire, blizzard etc. the main mission is fun to but hard and has a great story and you can 
 have lots of fun with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: insectus
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jul 5, 2007 7:51 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I have ever got my hands on...
  
  Technically, it's brilliant. It's graphics are stunningly beautifull and make even just strolling 
 around a very pleasant while, sound is good all around but has some moments of brilliance here 
 and there.
  
  While the game has a solid story of traditional  
 there are dozens of sidestories that lead to sidequests that make us spend dozens of hours playing 
 the game just trying to do everything the game has in it to be done.
  The game's map is enourmous and well conceived, sporting dozens (hundreds?) of places to explore, 
 some quest related, others just for exploration, and we are absolutely free to roam the map as 
 we see fit.
  
  And there are just so many things a person can do! What can I say when in the same game I can be 
 a gladiator, a thief or harvest plants to create potions?
  
  Combat is very intuitive and visually effective, just as much as magic is straightforward unlike 
 some RPGs where the use of magic is quite complicated.
  
  Finally, the game doens't ever end, even when we conplete the main quest we are stil free to continue 
 exploring the world untill we are absolutely sure there isn't anything more to do or discover (and 
 that sure takes a looooooooong time!) .
  
  On the down side, only one thing really bothers me. Despite there being more than a thousand characters 
 in the game, most of them have exactly the same voice and do little more than tell us about random 
 rumours, in some occasions becoming excessively silly... And while it's fun to see NPCs engaging 
 in conversation and greeting each other, sometimes they do it in completely innapropriate situations.
 
  
  But this doesn't at all spoil what is in every aspect an excellent game worthy of any ps3 owner's 
 collection. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MattUK07
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 4, 2007 11:55 am PT
Review:  Oblivion has everything a great game should have. A great story with loads of side quests and faction 
 quests including Fighters guild, Mages guild and many more including knights of the nine on the 
 PS3 version plus downloadable content. The graphics are fantastic the fighting is proper and you 
 can make your character to whatever suits you plus get your skills and levels up so you can slaghter 
 your enemy. The landscape is probably the biggest ever made even bigger than Grand Theft Auto. 
 There are loads of different weapons, armours and spells too. You battle your way through all sorts 
 of people and creatures trying to stop you in your path. Its amazing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Droidekadroids
Rating: 9.3
Date: Aug 2, 2007 9:26 am PT
Review:  After being convinced over and over that this game is the best and is outstanding I finally picked 
 this up last week and let me tell you was I missing out on one of the greatest gaming experiences 
 for all these months. This game is fantastic, simply suberb, one of the best ps3 has to offer. 
 I never knew a game could be this massive, this long, this exciting. Simply a must have for all 
 ps3 owners along with Resistance.
  
  Gameplay- This is massive with a huge World to explore, over 150 quests, and many guilds and factions 
 to join with their own stories and quests. The level up system is similar to that online game called 
 runescape I used to play where you have to level up to 100 to max out your skills and to do that 
 you use your skills more such as blade you attack with a blade weapon, destruction you use fire 
 spells, restoration you use heal spells, etc. Once you level up 10 of your main skills you level 
 up your actual guy where you can increase overall attributes such as strength, agility, endurance, 
 etc. The combat, range, and mage system are pretty easy to use but may take a while to get used 
 to. The AI is pretty smart and the environment interaction is also a cool feature. You also get 
 to say whatever you want to people to choose how the quest will turn out. The only problem I had 
 is that the game froze a bit of times (about 7-`0 times since I got it last month and a half) which 
 is because the game is pretty big but still a patch should be made for this problem as it really 
 is annoying and bad, also sometimes a weird screeching sound may be present before it freezes so 
 dont think it is your ps3 or disc being the problem it is just a vey bad bug the developers failed 
 to fix Graphics- I really wanted to give this a 10 but some parts the graphics and framerate looked 
 a little scratchy but still it is very nice and most things look very clean and nice. They are 
 one of ps3's best games graphically. -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Sound- Great voice acting, great music, and great sounds
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Value- Once you start playing there is so much to do and so much to find you will be playing this 
 for hours non stop. The quests and story have at least 25+ hours of gameplay plus getting all your 
 levels maxed make this game seem to last weeks to fully complete. --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  Aside from the random freezing and screeching, this game is one of the best and offers so much 
 to do and see it is really unbelieveable and should not be passed up. Its not all that bad even 
 and is more so a T rated than M if that worries you, in fact it was originally meant to be rated 
 T. Still you will be amazed once you get to learn the extent of the game like me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Red_devil_666
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 9:44 pm PT
Review:  This game is virtually flawless (some minor control issues aside) - any AD&amp; D geek's dream-come-true. 
 The length of game-play and the number of quests is enough to ensure that even fewer gamers find 
 girlfriends or boyfriends (mostly the former) . Many other gamers have reviewed this game so I won't 
 waste your time with my delusions of leading the masses to The Promised Land... my point is simply 
 this... The PS3 version is visually stunning, but the six-axis controller feels too flimsy and delicate 
 to fully compliment this machine and game-play experience suffers as a result. To take a piece 
 from one of my favourite authors - it's like a well-endowed eunuch. Sony puts out the biggest and 
 baddest game console around and hands you something out of a Kinder Surprise to control it with. 
 It's just an example of the Japanese aesthetic gone amok. They need to release a good, weighty, 
 sturdy dual-shock to complete the experience and leave the arm-waving to Nintendo who decided not 
 to do it half -assed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: syarko
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jul 3, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? Lets start with the storyline. When you play Oblivion, you feel like you are watching 
 a movie, except you control what the main character does and who does he interact with. If the 
 Main Quest is not for you, or you want to go back to it after you build up your character (like 
 I did) , there are many other things you can do in the world of Oblivion. You can join a faction 
 (guild) like the Mages, Fighters, Thieves Guilds, not to mention the Arena and the Dark Brotherhood. 
 After you have completed the Guilds of your choice, you can always do Daedric Quests, the Master 
 Trainer Quests, and the Miscellaneous Quests. But the Main Quest is fun too and the only way you 
 can find and close the Oblivion Gates is by doing the Main Quest. You can easily customize your 
 character any way you want. At the beginning of the game, you choose your characters race (One 
 of ten, Argonian, Breton, Dark Elf, High Elf, Imperial, Khajiit, Nord, Orc, Redguard, and Wood 
 Elf.) . Then you choose your abilities, skills, and birthsign. You can be anyone from a Combat-Stealth 
 Warrior-Ambusher to a Pure Combat Warrior with Magic Support. The combinations are endless. The 
 number of accessories you are able to buy or make your self in Oblivion is very great. Apart from 
 all of those weapons and clothes you can buy from NPC characters, you can make your own accessory 
 special by enchanting it with magic. This gives the item special abilities, like additional damage 
 to a specific skill. There is also a large amount of actual weapons that you are able to buy from 
 NPC characters, from a silver bow, to a glass war hammer. The weapons are awesome, but you need 
 to repair your accessories regularly to keep them in their best form, for this you can try to repair 
 your armor and weapons yourself, or you can just go to an armory and pay for an NPC to repair your 
 stuff. Stealth is a major part of Oblivion. Maybe one of your quests includes a locked chest where 
 your precious quest item lies, and you cant get it because you dont have any lock-picks or your 
 security level is low. Or you need to get past an imperial guard without him noticing. For this 
 you need to go into Sneak Mode and try to go unnoticed. The higher your sneak skill, the more unnoticed 
 you will become. Picking pockets is another part of Stealth in Oblivion. Maybe an NPC has a key 
 with him at all times, and you need to get it. What do you do? You go into sneak and activate the 
 NPC when he is not looking, and depending on your sneak skill, you maybe able to get away with 
 the theft, and the NPC will never notice his key is gone. Persuasion is the art of making someone 
 like you more. Persuasion is measured by a characters Disposition. If the characters Disposition 
 is high, then he likes you, if the characters Disposition is low, he does not think much of you. 
 To increase a characters Disposition, you need to play a little mini-game to increase Disposition 
 of an NPC. If you dont like to play the mini-game and you have a lot of cash, you can always bribe 
 the character for a Disposition increase. Magic is one of the biggest parts of Oblivion. The ability 
 to open a lock, conjure a shield or a low level character to protect you is one of the upsides 
 to having a high Magic Level. You can increase your level by practicing low level spells and joining 
 the Mages Guild. Magic can do things that would usually take you much longer to accomplish. I have 
 just scraped the surface of the world of Oblivion in this review. I hope you will try this game, 
 because it really is worth its price. Please comment on my review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halolegend35
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 30, 2007 3:15 am PT
Review:  i think this game is superb whilst i dont have a ps3 its definatly as good as the 360 version and 
 is clearly the best game released so far for the console. the level of detail and scale of the 
 map is excepptional and the gameplay is still fast and has minimal lag . compared to the 360 version 
 the free download content and slightly longer sight range and improved graphics give it an extra 
 something. whilst the 360 seems to be more brighter and colourful i believe the 9.5 review was 
 incorrect and it diserves a 9.7 mainly because of the free download content which pc and 360 gamers 
 have to pay for 
::::::

::::::
UserName: enjoy679
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 30, 2007 2:49 am PT
Review:  nice world, great graphics, but the graphics could be better. the music is nice for playing late 
 at night. the further you get in the game, the harder the monsters get. thats a thing i noticed. 
 i prefer being a stealth fighter. melee second, mage third. the graphics are a bit better on the 
 PS3, than on the xbox 360. loading times are shorter, the draw distance is clearer. lol the funny 
 thing is, i dont even own a PS3. i just no all this stuff because ive played it on the xbox 360. 
 this game is awsome, poeple owning a PS3 must ge this game, considering ther isent much PS3 games 
 out there... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zak_ps3
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 29, 2007 10:59 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a game I thoroughly enjoyed playing, and I would recommend it 
 to anyone looking for hours upon hours of gameplay which honestly never gets boring.
  
  When I first heard of this 'magnicifent' game off my friends I thought a typical response - not 
 my thing. Although after an hour playing the game at my mates house, I had completely changed my 
 mind and had become immersed in the world of Cyrodill.
  
  Oblivion offers a tremendous amount of gameplaying time over 100 hours by my recollection and throughout 
 this time, you become perplexed with a series of quests, which never lose their desire to complete. 
 You could literally pass a day by on this work of genius by Ubisoft.
  
  Each quest intrigues you to complete and at some stages you become torn about which quest to do 
 - they are all excellent fun. Every quest can be done in third or first person, which is a superb 
 feature for the different functions you do eg. 3rd person for freely roaming the city and 1st person 
 for close combat.
  
  This game plays really well. You can't beat the sense of victory after becoming the arena grand 
 champion and this new gameplay emerges you into the game making feel as if you are a part of it. 
 It gives you and your character some kind of emotional bond.
  
  Altogether, I would say Oblivion is an excellent game and should not be disregarded by anyone like 
 I was going to originally. You should really buy this game, because I would think the masterpiece 
 that is Oblivion will be flying off all the shelves. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: man007_s
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 29, 2007 6:40 pm PT
Review:  first off, i'm not a big fan of RPG but this game has changed my mind It's:
  - quite
  - graphically attractive
  - a lot of items out there plus a convincing number of
  armors and 
 blades etc.
  - doesn't have alot of action and that's why i call it (a quite RPG)
  -it keeps loading the area around you while you're moving on grasses and that may annoy you.
 
  - It has a lot of paths you can follow, so you might get a different ending than your friend.
 
  - takes you away from your social life, otherwise, you won't finish it less than one month.
  - the sound will easily grip you ... solid sound tracks, interactive music so that it changes when 
 an enemy gets close to you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: erikvk
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 28, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is the best game ever made, be sure of that. The little issues are annoying, but don't 
 ruin the game at all. The world is as big as a province in the Netherlands, and I was incredible 
 happy to hear that Oblivion came to the PS3. After the start in 2000 (yes, the time of the PS1) 
 Oblivion is developed to be a next-gen title, as it shows. More good news for PS3 fans is that 
 Oblivion doesn't even pushes the console to its limits, what was the case on the 360 and PC.
  
  In the beginning of the game you can make your own character, and choose between these races: 
 Argonian (water breathing) , Orc (good with weapons) , Redguard (talented warriors) , and a lot of 
 Elves. It all looks amazing, and the little issues don't ruin this graphics.
  
  The story is good too. I'm not going to tell anything about it, (because everybody knows it already) 
 but it's great. I thank the developers of Oblivion for making the best game ever made. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Yankee_In_TX
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 5:58 pm PT
Review:  I guess I'll stick to the review format I started with my first review....
  
  
  Control: To be honest, it's not the best. Thankfully, not much of the game requires skillful movement. 
 You may have to jump over a pit, but you're given a wide berth. No platform to platform.
  
  Combat could be better. Mostly (I have a warrior) take a hit on your shield, swing your weapon. 
 Could be better if you could place your hits - head, torso, etc. But combat is fun nonetheless. 
 I'm being picky.
  
  
  Gameplay/Fun factor: Might have the largest learning curve of any game I have played. This is, 
 of course, because this is possibly the largest and most intricate game I have ever played. Sure, 
 you are tutored on how to swing your weapon, block, etc. But to truly gain a feel for the world, 
 the quests, how to play through the game, it may take hours or even days.
  
  The game doesn't REQUIRE a game guide. It helps with some of the more complicated details. However, 
 the game was designed VERY well. Your quest log contains EVERY quest that is active. A few clicks, 
 and the next place you need to visit is marked on your map and zoomed in.
  
  This is CRUCIAL with such nonlinear gameplay and such a large world. I may just find a quest is 
 boring, play 10 more quests, start another 20, but I'm only a few clicks away from being right 
 back into that first quest, map, hints, and all.
  
  
  Graphics: Decent, well, good. But I have a feeling the next installment, hopefully NextGen only, 
 will be GREAT. The detail is extraordinary in this game - plants, wall surfaces, etc. My only gripe 
 is that combat is kinda' graphically lame. Again, I'm just beign picky.
  
  
  Sounds: I think the sound is great. The background music, sounds of nature, storms, your armor 
 when you walk...
  
  ANNOYING POINT: There are only a handful of voices in the game. One of the female voices (happens 
 to be Umbra's as well) is annyoing and grating on the ears.
  
  Overall: Time eater. You'll sit down to play for an hour at noon and stop when you realize it is 
 one A. M. This game is immense, and even the short lame quests are ok due to the excitement of getting 
 launched into a major fight or scoring some killer loot. BUY THIS GAME :-)
  
  Bethesda: let's see some PS3 expansion packs! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:28 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a fantastic game. You are given an epic story of long lost kings, Demon rulers and 
 Prophecies. You first create a character and believe me its not easy. There are so many choices 
 this alone could take up to an hour to decide. Once you've made a character the story starts to 
 move forward. You have beautifully rendered landscapes and sweet and short loading times. The voice 
 acting is top notch. The first voice you will recognize is that of Patrick Stewart (for X-Men and 
 Star Trek fame) Running about the countryside you can find various little adventure to build your 
 character before tackling the harder main story. The sound is amazing. Background noise seems very 
 authentic. The music adds to the experience. Normally I don't care for music much but this time 
 i was willing to let it play. The value of this game is great. I know most reviewers will say that 
 the game is 40 to 100 hours of game play. I've never understood that that means. If you work and 
 are only able to play this game on weekends and a couple of hours after work or school. The this 
 game could be a 6 month adventure. Now you may need the help of a guide cause this game is huge 
 and its very easy to get lost. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Faiylen
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:48 am PT
Review:  There seems to be two types of role playing games. Those that are fun to play, and those that are 
 simply boring. The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, is in a category of it's own - absolutely stunning!
 
  
  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the fourth game in Bethesda's remarkable The Elder Scrolls franchise. 
 This version takes you to the Imperial legion of Cyrodill, located in the centre of Tamriel. As 
 a prisoner in the Imperial Prison, you come across Uriel Septim, the Emperor of Tamriel. He tells 
 you that you are the one from his dreams, and with that, you set off on the journey of a lifetime. 
 When the Emperor is killed by a mysterious cult called the Mythic Dawn, you must set across Cyrodill 
 to the outskirts of the city of Chorrol, to find a man called Jauffre. He tells you that the only 
 living heir to the Septim throne serves as a priest in the city of Kvatch. You are sent on a quest 
 to locate the only surviving heir, and restore him to the throne.
  
  Along the way, you'll encounter hundreds of side quests to do, things to learn, and treasure to 
 discover. You can be anyone you want in the world of Oblivion, from the heroic knight to the sinister 
 assassin. In this game, you choose exactly how you want to play. You can even find yourself getting 
 paid to assassinate people, and possibly even become a vampire.
  
  The moment you start playing Oblivion, you'll be instantly gripped into it's massive, stunning 
 world, and you'll find yourself playing for hours and hours. The cities feel alive, with citizens 
 and guards walking the streets and willing for a conversation. Many of these people offer a quest 
 for you to embark on, and there will often be some sort of reward for your work. Or, if you're 
 not a hero, you can just kill them on the streets and loot their bodies for money and other useful 
 items, such as weapons and armour.
  
  The graphics in Oblivion are some of the best the PlayStation 3 has seen yet. Every single person, 
 building and even tree is stunning to look at, and you can sometimes even find yourself standing 
 in awe looking over at the view of the Imperial City from the mountainsides. It's truly a stunning 
 experience, and one certainly not to be missed.
  
  Oblivion is loaded with thousands of stunning sound effects and music, as well as perfect voice-overs 
 and ambient sounds. Stand close enough to the water and you'll hear it slowly running down the 
 river. You'll hear the birds singing in the trees throughout the day, and you'll simply never get 
 tired of any of the sounds the game as to offer.
  
  There are a number of ways to fight in Oblivion. You can be a worthy knight, who fights with his 
 strong, elven sword, or a powerful mage, who uses his magical abilities to fight. You don't even 
 need a weapon - fight with your fists if that makes you happy! Or, if you're not happy with the 
 range of classes the game has to offer (but trust me, you will be) , you can even go on to create 
 your very own class, allowing you to choose a range of skills and abilities to create the character 
 of your dreams!
  
  Oblivion is one of the most immersive role-playing games ever made. The most immersive, in fact. 
 There's so much to do in Oblivion, so you won't get bored with it at least until the release of 
 Bethesda's next addition to the series. And with the PlayStation 3 version, you get the first expansion 
 pack, Knights of the Nine, edited in to the original game. And that just adds even more for you 
 to be getting on with! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nyc_hunter
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 27, 2007 8:37 am PT
Review:  OK, I've logged in over 100 hours on Oblivion and I'm still having fun and finding new things, 
 so this is a great game. The strong point is the twists and turns in every little quest, reinvigorating 
 the whole concept of a dungeon crwler type of game.
  
  So great, in fact, I want more stuff... more improvements! I want to keep playing, but there a 
 couple things I would dearly like to see BETHESDA add. 1) The question of PC Mods. If you look 
 around you will see all kinds of great mods that users have created for the PC version. And once 
 you see them, you want 'em bad. There are new quests, new areas, hot-looking elfs (elves?) , exquisite 
 weapons, armor, and even detailed jewelry. Mods for better inventory and maps. More monsters. Different 
 combat. More spells. If you imagined it, someone probably made it.
  
  We need a system of allowing sanctioned MODS to be added (or sold by Bethesda) like a MOD PACK. 
 Hopefully a set of MODS that has been tested enough to be bug free. This is even needed in the 
 PC side of things, but with the XBOX and PS3 a way of gathering together the best mods and packaging 
 them is desperately needed.
  
  2) The next step... EPIC SCALE COMBAT?
  What the modders can't bring - Bethesda has to. And thats the next step, which I would say is some 
 BIG foes to take down here and there. Like, say, I dunno, a DRAGON maybe? This will require some 
 rehabilitation of the combat system and some other game mechanics if its down right. I guess in 
 a nutshell it would be like FFXII type monsters encompassed within the ELDER SCROLLS universe. 
 But with an enhanced version of the real time sword play/combat of Oblivion. I would really like 
 to see more fluid movement (new jump animation for example) . I do like to switch to 3rd person 
 once in a while and I'd love to see that bumped up a notch.
  
  3) Co-op ... OK Bethesda, you said you want to focus on making a great single player experience... 
 blah, blah, blah, but with all the sales and rave reviews, no more excuses. Add co-op. Hey, split 
 screen offline and online.. yup BOTH. Not sure how, but jsut do it!
  
  OK so that is it. Great game... but I want MODS, and I want a sequel that will blow the genre out 
 of the water!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mabbo1982
Rating: 9.9
Date: Jun 26, 2007 5:50 am PT
Review:  Consider this the definitive version of the Elder Scrolls series. It's not a continuation, it's 
 an evolution. Perhaps even a revolution. It's an all-new adventure with new characters and a new 
 storyline. Prior knowledge of the series is not important. You can jump right in, create your own 
 character and be up and running in moments. You are given total freedom with your character. You 
 can choose to be good or evil, or perhaps a mix of both. There is so much to see and do in this 
 game that you could wind up playing it for months - and it's not as dry as most lengthy RPGs. This 
 game is loaded with action and adventure. Even if you've never played an RPG before this one won't 
 bog you down unless you choose to read all of the books that give you a back history to the story. 
 There's a natural flow to the gameplay that makes it seem like real life, infact in my case it 
 is my life! You have three main powers at your disposal: Stealth; magic, and combat. You can employ 
 ranged weapons such as the bow and arrow as well as magic-generated projectiles to kill the enemies. 
 Melee weapons such as a club or even your bare hands can also be employed to defend yourself. If 
 you prefer, you can run or sneak past the enemies using your stealth skills. There is plenty of 
 combat in the game and while you can choose to sneak or run past the enemy, there are times when 
 you're just going to have to get physical. Using your weapons is relatively easy. It's a matter 
 of judging perspectives and pressing the action button at the right time. You can dish out light 
 and powerful attacks by tapping or pressing on the action button while at the same time using your 
 shield to block blows from the enemy. The AI is excellent and puts up a good fight. They get cocky 
 when they are gaining the upper hand and will often slink away if they are getting a bad beating. 
 Your magic powers give you a lot of flexibility. You can use it to launch fiery projectiles or 
 enchant the enemy into giving up their weapons and making them totally vulnerable to the simplest 
 of attacks. These magic powers will even allow you to summon powerful demons.
  
  In a fantasyland of elves, orcs, monsters, myths and magic, you become aware of a plot to overthrow 
 the present emperor when he recognizes you from a dream and entrusts you with the search for his 
 illegitimate child. The kingdom is overrun by monsters from The planes of Oblivion (A place like 
 Hell) which are being transported to your dimension through Oblivion Gates. To learn the secrets 
 of closing the gates you must first flee the Imperial City, being careful not to come under attack 
 by these loathsome creatures. On the various paths that lead from the main cities to the various 
 villages you will encounter many different gameplay opportunities including dungeons that require 
 exploring, enemies that you must outwit or overpower and characters that require your assistance 
 which results in numerous side-quests. You are not required to travel these paths by foot if you 
 don't feel like it. The towns and villages are loaded with non-playable, but interactive, characters. 
 There are hundreds of them and all are fully voiced. They will give you clues and offer you side-quests. 
 These characters display great animated facial features that are incredibly expressive. Their reactions 
 to you will depend on the personality that you've cultivated. The graphics are nothing short of 
 incredible. All of the environments, whether they be woodlands, cities or a version of Hell, are 
 highly imaginative and distinct. I didn't detect any reuse of textures. Everything appears to have 
 been created fresh, from scratch. This kind of visual depth would be impossible on the PS2 considering 
 how massive this world is. Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion sets a new standard in RPGs. There is so 
 much to do in this game and the interactivity of the AI makes it seem like a massive online multi-player 
 experience. Expect months of fun and adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xvuxboix
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:51 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is possibly the best game I have ever played. If you want to see details (at least some 
 of them) , read on. Otherwise, I've just summarized this review.
  
  So you're reading on? Okay, here we go. Oblivion is a fantastic fantasy role playing game that 
 is out for the PS3, Xbox 360, and PC. It has very expansive story with many quests to do. You start 
 as a peasant in a brig, but as you play on, you customize your character many different ways, and 
 of course, you fight beasts in the wild.
  
  The graphics are absolutely wonderful to look at. There are many different textures and characters 
 are well detailed. Everything from the mountains to the smallest utensil on a table. This is probably 
 the best looking world I've seen.
  
  The gameplay is simple and addictive. You can be an assassin in the Brotherhood Of Darkness, or 
 perhaps join the arena to fight other people for some cash, or take part in the warriors, mages, 
 or thieves guild. Any of these ways you take, it'll be fantastic.
  
  The sound is also great. The slashes of a sword are realistic, with some ambient sounds, with some 
 fantastic dialog thrown in there.
  
  All in all, this will be the best game you have ever played. I rate this a 10 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aloox2
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 25, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  Absolutely love this game the graphics are amazing and game play is varied just enough to keep 
 you playing for hours on end. Main Quest is riveting and all the side missions and guild quest 
 you can do provide variation which is needed in such a largely scaled game. If a new one were to 
 be released Id quite like to see it be more like World of Warcraft or Guild Wars for the multiplayer 
 components that could be integrated. As I said above I have it on PS3 with HDMI enabled and the 
 graphics are unbelievably good especially the peoples faces and fire in the game very sharp and 
 looks very real.
  Would recommend it to anyone who has a 360 or PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BestKeptScrt24
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 25, 2007 12:52 am PT
Review:  WOW!!! never seen anything like in a role playing game. Everything stands out even if you just 
 decide to look at a portion of the wall or one of the NPC'S faces. Probably the most innovative 
 world i've ever quested or feasted my eyes on. This one is a must have for either the 360 or PS3. 
 Might wanna get it for the 360 that way you can get some cool achievement points. The gameplay 
 is good and the storyline is ground breaking. You'll get addicted and sucked in right away so make 
 sure that you have lots of spare time to spare because your gonna need it or you'll wind up sleeping 
 on the couch.... or worse hahahaha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bow_hammer17
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 24, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  If you got a PS3 then Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a must get. It has every thing that you would 
 want in a RPG. The Graphic is sweet and stunning. If youre a women youll go Thats beautiful 
 and if youre a dude youll go Damn this is some sweet a$$ graphics. The game play is really 
 really good, I just love how you can go from Third-Person to First-Person and that the game has 
 lots of things to do, I mean lots. You wont beat this game in just 1 day or so, youll probably 
 play and play till you get divorced, Laugh Out Loud, sorry if you do. This game is just amazing. 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a must get, hands down. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: delol
Rating: 9.1
Date: Jun 22, 2007 5:09 am PT
Review:  I have played Elder Scrolls : Oblivion in the X360 and i was enchanted then as i am enchanted now 
 playing it in the PS3 IMO this is the best game of 2006 . Whit a huge world (my good it seem endless) 
 and a magic script the game altought not an easy one conquer the gamer since the very start
  
  Gameplay - Is totally immersive .In this PS3 version i saw some glitches but generally is very 
 similar to X360 version
  
  Graphics- Great animations amazing physics yet whit some framerate problems Sound- wow it is simply 
 majestic (no words to describe it)
  
  Value- You must have it mainly if you haven&acute; t play the PC or X360 versions .Long hours of 
 pure delight will make your money worth while 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gnps3
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 3:42 pm PT
Review:  Are you a fan of RPG games? Do you have a PS3? If both answers are yes, you must have this game.
 
  It's A W E S O M E.
  Worth the wait for the PS3. I don't know why gamespot gave this game 9.5 and 9.6 for the 360. I'm 
 no fanboy, but the Playstation 3 version of this game is a lot better than the 360. I played this 
 game on my friend's 360 and it was great, but when I bought it for my PS3, I got shooked.... It's 
 the best game available now (06/19/2007) for the PS3... no doubt about it.
  
  Gameplay: it's very good, but fighting some times get difficult.
  
  Graphics: Perfect.
  
 
  Sound: Great voice acting, birds sing on the trees, it's like you're in a real forest.
  
  Value: 10
  
  Tilt: 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: camh91
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 19, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Ive never quite expirinced a game quite like this. It is absolutley amaxing innovative in every 
 aspect of gaming details. THis game defiintely opens up another world to you. You can do just about 
 anything that you could ever imagine in this game. It is extremly huge. It has a very fun main 
 storyline, but other than that there are like hundreds of other little stroylines throughout the 
 game. However even so, you can still roam fre during this game and do absolutely anything at all! 
 I loved this game and the graphics are awesome. If you don't already own this ghaem you should 
 get uyp from wherever it is that you are sitting, get in your car, and BUY BUYY BUY! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matnaami
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 18, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  JUST AWSOME.... havent played something this good in a while.... the game has interesting story 
 line along with amazing graphics that look spectacular on a 55 SONY HDTV. ITS JUST PERFECT. Although 
 you might like this game if you are not into the Diablo/Dungeons and Dragons style games, but if 
 you are you are going to love it. Its like crack, once you get your first hit you keep getting 
 more till you O. D. (o. d. ing in this case would be you get so fat you can't leave the room) . If 
 only i could fit its description in a one hundread word minimum description. XBOX 360's version 
 is the worst out. If only this game was an MMORPG then it would kick ass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ravine1
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 17, 2007 8:47 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is one of the best games I have ever seen. It is easy to get over 100 hours in game play 
 and you still want to come back for more. In the beginning the player creation is very detailed. 
 The race you pick also affects gameplay which is great. It starts off slow and then at the right 
 moment puts you in an immersive world with hundred's of quests, many locations to visit, and many 
 options to do whatever you wish. It hardly ever gets to challenging. It will taylor to your choices 
 and there are always new places to go. Your opponents get tougher and there is always a tough battle 
 ahead of you. If it is to hard you can do something else and it is always fun. You will never stop 
 loving or playing this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stammalamma
Rating: 9.8
Date: Jun 15, 2007 2:19 pm PT
Review:  This game is simply unbelievable. It is just . . . wow. It's soooo good. The possibilities are 
 just endless. There is so much to do and the game is so in-depth and the graphics and gameplay 
 and story and . . . wow. I'm sorry for rambling but it's just such an amazing game. Without a doubt 
 on my top 5 games ever played list. You really just need to play it for yourself to know what I'm 
 talking. You can easily spend over 100 or more hours doing the millions of incredible side quests 
 without even touching the main quest. Spend the $60 to find out what I continue to ramble about. 
 It's so much fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: martinriggs77
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 11, 2008 9:23 pm PT
Review:  I'm not a big RPG fan, but thanks to this game consuming my life for the past several months, I 
 am now. I just don't know how I'll ever find another RPG that can compare to this one. With all 
 the open-endedness that you'll ever need, and quests to keep you busy up to 160 hours plus, this 
 is one game that should not be passed up by any PS3 owner. What amazes me is the game's ability 
 to have such a vast and diverse world with so many different people, creatures, plants, items and 
 locations that it just draws you out of our world and into theirs. "Live In Your World and Play 
 In Ours" truly is the right saying for this game.
  
  It's amazing how you can get drawn into the world and everything that you do can affect you in 
 such a personal way. Like if your horse dies, you feel bad! And if a certain NPC gets killed because 
 of something you did, you actually feel guilty! Best game ever! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Recondite505
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 12, 2007 9:02 am PT
Review:  This is one of the best games I've played. The graphics were amazing and the side missions really 
 added to the overall value. My complaints are the main storyline is too short and anti-climatic 
 and by anti-climatic I mean there is no big boss at the end of the game that you face. I also find 
 myself hoping for and wondering about the Shivering Isles expansion which seems to be available 
 on every platform excep the PS3. Despite these two drawbacks this game gets to be very addictive 
 very quickly and I would highly recommend it to any one that is even remotely interested in games 
 that fall under this genre. Hopefully whoever is responsible for putting this out on the PS3 will 
 step up to the plate and get the Shivering Isles expansion out as soon as possible as I would really 
 like to be able to play that as well and don't want to have to buy the whole thing on PC just so 
 I can play the Shivering Isles expansion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skojic
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2007 7:08 am PT
Review:  Wow, I just got the game yesterday and literally couldn't find time to write this review because 
 of the massive amount of time I spent playing Oblivion on my Playstation 3. I can honestly say 
 this is the most valuable game for the PS3 that's out right now. For all those other questions 
 you might have, I will provide the answers...
  
  To Newcomers:
  
  What kind of a game is it?
  
  Oblivion is an RPG (Role-playing game) that immerses you in the 
 fictional province of Cyrodiil, a land filled with great cities, lushy forests and steep mountains... 
 What is the game about/ when is it set?
  
  This game is fictional so no actuall year is made clear during the game, however one might say 
 that the whole theme is very medieval. The actual plot is about the murder of Emperor Septim and 
 its consequences on the Imperials and creatures alike, when several Oblivion Gates are opened and 
 an unspeakable evil threatenes to cleanse the land...
  
  What is Oblivion?
  
  As far as I've come to understand, it is Hell. Not long after you begin your quest will you enter 
 through the gates of Oblivion and face your first time there. Is this a non-linear game?
  
  In a word, yes. You can do whatever you like (well, almost) . You don't have to follow the main 
 story, you can simply fight in the Arena, join guilds, perform various tasks, or enjoy wandering 
 the land itself. However, one SHOULD play out the main story since it is epic. To hardcore fans:
 
  
  What's the difference between the PS3 and the PC version?
  
  You might go look for official news on that, but there's a noticeable change in graphics, then 
 there's an added faction (Knights of the Nine) ...
  
  Are the controlls balanced?
  
  Yes, perfectly. I must say I thought it would be kinda weird swinging my sword around and aiming 
 with a bow with SIXAXIS but I was wrong. Trust me, the controlls are great.
  
  I have a PS3 and don't know if I should get this since I already beat the game. What do you suggest?
 
  
  If you beat it once, get it. If you finished it a numerous amount of times than you would probably 
 want to keep your money (just don't go spending it on rubbish games)
  
  Closing sentence:
  
  Oblivion still counts for a remarkable and revolutionary game in general, 
 and definately for the PS3. It's the first game that I bought with no regrets over the price. Trust 
 me, it's... (check the title) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevesurdaddy12
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 11, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  This game was amazing, however, Xbox had it, and it was just too long. If you're looking for a 
 100 hour game, this is it, but i like to spend no more than about 60 hours at max on my games... 
 so for me personally, not a 10, but not a 7 either. The gameplay and graphics were great, on the 
 ps3 some parts got a little choppy, but no complaints. It's honestly a good game, just too long 
 for my liking, however i can't argue that this game is great! Defidently buy this for either the 
 360 or PS3... defidently worth trying and i will have no doubt you'll like it, maybe not love it 
 like me, but its defidently worth the buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RoyalBladePT
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 9, 2007 6:55 am PT
Review:  Honestly , i have no words to describe Oblivion. But I wll try.. First , you are probably thinking 
 bla bla i hate Rpgs.. This is no normal Rpg.. It&acute; s an adventure and exploring , fantasy game! And 
 It&acute; s just so big.... It has a Huge Main story and lot's of Guilds , Side Quests , Dungeons 
 , Caves, Temples , Secrets and MANY more. Besides , there are lot's of Races , Classes and Birthsigns 
 so you can play the game with different kinds of Characters .Another great thing about Oblivion 
 is .. Graphics! Everything looks so real in oblivion..
  The best way to describe Oblivion is an Offline MMORPG (at least thats what i think) . So .. Buy oblivion 
 at ALL COSTS! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  Well, the vast world of Oblivion let's you do all te stuff you want. You can make your own character, 
 pick your class, race and all that other stuffs. I played Morrowind and i must say, the combat 
 has improved quite a huge bit. You can block when you mean to, picking spells is easier, as is 
 casting them. Honestly, i wasnt too very impressed with the graphics, although the lighting was 
 quite good... the music gets repetitve and annoting, kind of. It would be much nicer to have more 
 wepons, and armor too. But i have to say, this game has some pretty cool, addicting quests and 
 guilds, which give you quests. Some cool quests are the dream, painting, and paradise one, so look 
 out for those if you get this game. And this game has SO MANY extras!! Random dungeons, caves, 
 and forts to explore. Overall, i must say this is a good RPG (as i said before) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 4:29 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Graphics: Overall graphics are good. The character detail, object detail and scenery are all 
 well done. Lighting effects (especially the sky!) are great. Overall, not the best on PS3, but 
 very good.
  
  - Gameplay Depth: Enormous world to explore, tons of weapons, objects, and people to interact with, 
 many quests to complete and tons of magic/spells. Quests vary from quick 5 minute tasks, to 2-3 
 hours - nice variation. I also like that you can choose from many different quests at one time, 
 no need to follow a strict order of events. This makes the game very open ended.
  
  - Character Creation: At the beginning, you create your character and can choose many attributes, 
 races, etc. This adds a lot of depth and is very easy to use.
  
  - Sound: Great use of Dolby Digital surround sound. Voices move around the speakers corresponding 
 to player location. Overall sound is nicely done.
  
  - Simple menus: easy to find/equip weapons, magic spells, etc. Player stats and character development 
 progress well displayed in easy to read graphs. Fairly easy to use maps and quest descriptions.
 
  
  - Quick load times (for PS3 anyways) .
  
  THE BAD:
  - Some graphics draw problems - objects/buildings pop up on the horizon. This takes away from the 
 game's overall refinement, and the realism of the environment.
  
  - Some annoying cut scenes, dialogue, but I expect this in a role playing game.
  
  - No game 
 percent complete - big mistake in my book. How do I know how close I am to beating this game?
 
  
  - Map is a little difficult to navigate, no zoom feature. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LAboy06
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 8, 2007 3:55 pm PT
Review:  I was on the fence whether to buy this game or not, since I am not a fan of RPGs. However, I enjoy 
 action RPGs so I decided to buy this game, and I have to tell you, WOW! The story is epic, the 
 environments are lush in detail, the sword fighting is fun, casting spells are easy, and the map 
 is huge! The main quest will take you a little while to complete, but when you are done with that, 
 you still have plenty of hours of more gameplay with a bunch of other side quests, and guilds you 
 can join. This is easily the best action RPG, and quite possibly one of the best games for the 
 PS3 so far! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: madbis
Rating: 9.4
Date: Jun 8, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is the best game, until now, for PS3.
  The gameplay is very longer... More than 100 hours of play.
  But a lot of people will no like 
 it. Sometimes the game becomes very repeated, but this doenst sound annoying, because soon will 
 pass. The straight line of the game is very quicly to complete. The side missions are giants! A 
 Very long way wait for you in the side missions. The graphics are excelent! Much better than the 
 360's one. But the sound is a little boring. The sound effects are amazin.
  It's an excelente choose to buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mgray187
Rating: 9.7
Date: Jun 7, 2007 5:32 pm PT
Review:  Alright I'm going to start by saying this. I'm not rating this game by my personal opinion. I'm reviewing 
 it based on what it actually deserves. This game has some of the greatest visuals I have ever seen. I 
 was completely taken in by it. The graphics on this game are top notch. I love the first person shooter 
 view for an RPG. This was the first time I have played this kind of RPG. But I really like both camera 
 views. Both work very well for the game. The gameplay is actually pretty good. The game does have 
 a little bit of frame rate problems but for the most part it did not bother me all that much. I 
 think that many people who play this game will not even care about the frame rate issues. In all 
 honesty the fact that you can go almost everywhere in the game or do anything you want is pretty 
 cool. What the game really lacks is fighting. You can travel across the land and not even have to 
 use your sword once. If you can handle hours of exploring with little to none action than this game 
 is perfect for you. If not I suggest that you rent it first. In my opinion its an amazing game. But 
 its not that fun unless you have alot of patience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigpymp
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 5, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  Bethesda spared no expense in providing an incredibly detailed, huge, beautiful sandbox to explore. 
 This game literally has hundreds of quests and side quests for you to play, many varying in complexity 
 and style. They did a great job of immersing you into the game by blending top-notch graphics with 
 superior sound. Whats unique about this game is you can truly do whatever you want, whenever you 
 want. It is by far the most open ended game I have ever played. This can be a problem for those 
 with short attention spans. I have over 130 hours played, and I still have tons of things to do 
 for at least 100 more hours.
  
  Although Oblivion is the best looking game on the PS3 so far, it does suffer from some frame rate 
 issues, usually when you are fighting against multiple foes, and after a while some of the quest 
 lines can become rather repetitive, sending you on one dungeon crawl after another, which can feel 
 like tedious busy work. Oh, and unlike in the Final Fantasy games, you constantly have to manage 
 how much wieght your character is carrying, which can be frustrating at times-well, all the time. 
 All in all, this game is the only game so far that I felt looked like a next gen game, played like 
 a next gen game, and was worth the next gen price tag for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9.6
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:30 pm PT
Review:  Well this game how should i put it, is the best in his series in MMORPG, but not like Final fantasy 
 i was a fan of it a lot earlier, so sorry. But this game is good i never saw anything like it, that 
 for example people here are so realistic, not just the graphics but the things they do, like a bum 
 that i put for him on a table an apple and he takes it and eats it or what ever he wants to do. but 
 the coolest thing that if i poison the apple he pukes and dies... pretty cool ha?
  Also on the game you can change the image of the gameplay you can see your character in 3rd person 
 or FPS, and the weapons are very good looking if you have a HD TV then you will see the full potential 
 of the game, like the weapon that you were holding will shine very much its beautiful. Now about 
 a bow the arch thAt you will shoot for example into someones head if the enemy dies from one shot 
 the arch stays in his head, but if he doesnt die from one shot, then the arch will be stuck in his 
 neck, very good thing they did the creators of the had very much work, and they almost made it, the 
 ultimate, but it isnt like your character never talks and the people there also dont talk, that is 
 very painful for me and all others, i guess.... well See ya in oblivion! :wink 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirtkart
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  why would you like this game it a free open-wide world with hundreds to do.
  the Graphics outstanding the best graphic i have seen. Gameplay is simple and fun .Sound well sound 
 is great with anoying music like other games i have . this game is worth the pirce with over 100 
 hours of game play its fun. now i never play or own a Elder Scrolls game before so i don't know 
 want they like. i frist played this at my friends house and tourght it was the best game i have 
 seen . and never liked games like this before but this game has maked me like they and i can't 
 wait for the next Elder Scrolls game to come out. Ilike how all the people in game go to sleep 
 , have food and work. i have never seen a game this big good ever. it's the best ps3 game in town 
 . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lisanoele
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 1, 2007 8:13 pm PT
Review:  This is the ultimate in RPG games. I saw the opening movie and just said... whoa... It's easy to 
 pick up and quite addictive. I find myself playing it with every available moment in my day. I 
 bought it in March and have yet to finish it!! I'm doing ever single possible quest, and I have 
 joined ever single guild there is. My character has about 8 different titles, and I still havent 
 touch the main quest!! If you are looking for a game with many MANY hours of game play, a number 
 of races to choose from, this is it. I haven't even started magic yet, but that's for my next character. 
 Well worth the $60! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deadlift700
Rating: 7
Date: May 31, 2007 8:33 pm PT
Review:  The controls on this PS3 version are not nearly as good as my good old mouse and keyboard from 
 my Obvliion PC experience. In the PC version, I played the thief archer... killing everything from 
 range with the sneak bow shots... On the PS3 version I initially tried out the same character and 
 found the controls very over-sensitive with the SixAxis. Trying to aim with the bow lost most of 
 it's required precision. I tried a mage and had the same issues since aiming is again integral. 
 I have been forced by the controls to be a melee warrior, something that has never really kept 
 my attention in any RPG/MMORPG, so I lost interest.
  
  To sum it up... If you have never played the PC version, I say go for this all the way, If you 
 have the PC version, dont ecxpect any change in the graphics (unless of course your PC is old and 
 you had to tone it down) or content, but I'd pass on this version after being spoiled by my keyboard/mouse 
 combo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khellendros1
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 30, 2007 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I can't explain my surprise at finding out how much I loved this game. I've been playing Japanese 
 RPGs (JRPG) for 17 years and it's my favorite genre. I didn't think that there was anyway this 
 game would match up that style but it's amazing. What you have is a world that is open ended and 
 evolves around your playing style. The central story is linear but how you choose to tackle the 
 story is up to you. You can put 25 hrs in the game and not touch the main story. There is a cost 
 to this though. The game adjusts itself to how developed your character has become. The more powerful 
 you are , the more powerful the enemies are. When developing your character you have very hands 
 feel to the outcome of your character, not just clicking a button menu and watching like in a JRPG. 
 Everything is real time. There no turns to wait. The music and sound effects are excellent. You 
 find yourself unable to play without them. The voice acting is done very well and it's fun to just 
 sit and there and listen to the other characters talk for a few minutes.
  The beautiful world combined with a fun and satisfying combat system makes this game a joy to play. 
 When I heard the amount of hours spent on this game I thought there was no way but 50 hrs in this 
 game comes fast and you don't realize it. It just sucks you in. Even if you don't like this type 
 of game rent it and give it a try. It's worth it. If you like RPGs of any kind, YOU MUST BUY THIS 
 GAME!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 30, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion for the PS3, even a year after its release date its still an amazing game, to bad for 
 me I never bought the PC or Xbox 360 version of the game, and now I saw it comming out for the 
 PS3, and I said 'Heck, why not!'
  
  Oblivion is a open-end RPG with a massive world, lots of items, characters, quests and its just 
 incredibly fun to play, you don't have to play missions like in GTA, you can just do stuff you 
 like, like doing lots of sidequests, or just jump on you're horse, and slay everything that crosses 
 you're path.
  
  Gameplay:
  Incredible, you can get a whole arsenal of armour, weapons and you can do loads of quests, sidequests, 
 become part one of many guilds that are spreaded over the land of Oblivion, theres a huge variety 
 of monsters to slay and faces to meet, everything runs extremely smooth with barely any loadtimes 
 (and if I do get a loadtime, from getting in a dungeon or such, it only takes a fraction of a second) .
 
  
  The gameplay is just unlimited, just like by GTA, I don't know how long I'll be playing this game, 
 theres so much stuff you can do.. do gladiator style arena battles, use magic.. everything is possible.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Outstanding, everything feels so organic, grass moving everywhere, seeing little clouds of smoke 
 coming out of chimney's when you ride you're horse at sunset, and take a peek at one of the many 
 villages that are spreaded in the game, in firstperson the shields, swords.. everything looks so 
 shiny and looks great..
  
  Story:
  You make you're own race of warrior, give him facial features, a name and such and you begin in 
 a dungeon, just like other Elder Scroll games, after you find you're way out you'll find yourself 
 in a huge world, with lots of stuff to explore.
  
  AI:
  Hard, just like in Dark Messiah, opponents will oftenly use their strongest attacks, warriors with 
 shields and blades play just like you, they play save and just don't hack away on you.
  
  Is it a good RPG:
  Yes, the best I've ever played really, if you haven't played it yet and own 
 a PC, Xbox360 or PS3, buy it now, it'll be totally worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rooster2991
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 30, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  Oblivion is a great game wit an enourmous world with tons of stuff to do. Unfortunately from my 
 eyes, its not my kind of game and some areas are flawed. Most ppl will probably love it, so give 
 it a shot. I liked it, but i didnt thin kit was so amazing like everyone else, although it truly 
 was a next gen expierence. It has a steep learning curve in my opinion as well.
  
  Gameplay: 8/10
  It just doesnt feel right. Im not really a fan of it. I dont know. I found it 
 difficult to bring enemies down.
  
  Graphics: 8/10
  Would get a 10, but there is so many glitches and loading screens, and its not the smoothest frame 
 rate. What saves it is that the world is so huge, and everything is detailed and beautiful. I once 
 saw a guy on his horse flying, stuck in mid air though. Also facial expressions of people never 
 change.
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Everything is amazing about the sound, from the tunes in the background to the incredible voice 
 over
  
  Value: 10/10
  SO much to do, so little time. You could be stuck in this game for months
  
  Tilt: 8/10
  
 Not my kind of game, but capitilzes and is really great for those who love a western rpg liek this. 
 Not to say i didnt enjoy it, but i didnt LOVE IT like most people did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Saint_Kaiser
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2007 11:19 pm PT
Review:  One day I was watching the Spike TV VGA's and I saw Elder Scrolls Oblivion out beat every other 
 game for the Game of the Year. I knew that the Spike VGAs were all popularity, but when I saw 
 the rating on Gamespot, I was surprised. Not many games scored this high, and when I heard it was 
 being released on PS3, I was ecstatic. I was never much a fan of RPG games, but this one got me 
 hooked.
  
  The gameplay was phenomenal. It was very well pieced, and the freedom of what you want your character 
 to be like is great. What caught my eye was that you could make the game however you wanted it. 
 You have the freedom to establish your own circumstances and do things how you like them and when 
 you want to. Whether it is a slash n smash character, an assassin, or a mage, youll find that 
 the gameplay and the buttons are quite appropriate to fit all of the above.
  
  The graphics were nicely done for the PS3. The developers said they tweaked it a bit, so I found 
 it great. There were small quirks here and there, but overall, it was very solid and very consistent 
 throughout the whole game.
  
  The sound was a lot better than some other games I had played so far. They could have improved 
 a lot on the sound, but I liked it as a whole. I just had a slight problem with the suspense. If 
 something spotted you, then the suspenseful music would play before they attack, so its just a 
 little problem I had with the game. The music was great, though. The voiceovers were very solid, 
 but it seemed like they ran out of room at some parts because some characters had different voices.
 
  
  There is a lot of replay value in this game, and thats what many games nowadays are missing. If 
 you finished the game quickly, you could start over with a different path to take, or build your 
 character differently. The one thing that I wished was available was the chance to replay with 
 your original character with the same stats and equipment (or not) . It might be a bit unfair, but 
 its just a lot of effort to build up another character. Hopefully in the next Elder Scrolls, this 
 feature is available.
  
  Overall, my experience with the game was an excellent one. Its just great with the nearly unlimited 
 amount of freedom this game has, and Bethesda really took it to the max. If you decide to pick 
 up this game, beware, for your social life will be at a suspension. Haha. Really, though, this 
 game is the best RPG Ive ever played, and it is an excellent first experience for me. Although 
 it is a year old, in another year I might find myself picking up this game again and playing it. 
 Bravo. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SirBob3
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 29, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is awesome! It has all of those things that make it feel real! You could be free from 
 the storyline! Not with side quests, but actually free! Rob stuff, kill people (careful, they don't 
 come back!) , and alter yourself to do this stuff. It is actually fun leveling up! It's incredibly 
 strategetic (it's important who you be relating to this) . If you read gamespots guide, you'll get 
 an explanation to that. It can be hard or easy. The only bad part is the glitches and autosave. 
 It autosaves when there is a glitch, when you make a wrong turn &amp; defeat someone in the mages 
 guild &amp; get booted out. There is also an annoying reccomendation system to join the mages guild. 
 In the end it's worth getting if you like sword slashing games with magic to change your stats 
 &amp; stuff like that. If you aren't into that kind of thing, but your friend reccomends it to 
 you or something, rent it. Otherwise buy it and enjoy it.
  
  (This is my first review. I don't think it's as bad as some reviews here.) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: microwavedapple
Rating: 8.7
Date: May 29, 2007 6:17 pm PT
Review:  You climb a hill at sunset to watch the sun sink between two lush, green mountains. The trees around 
 you shed their leaves, and you momentarily divert your attention to watch as a delicate flutter 
 of leaves weave their way down, and rest on the ground. It is now dark. With the moon in full view, 
 you make your way home. On your journey, you see some deer prance between the rocks and glide over 
 the hills in the distance. You arrive in town. You make your way over to your neighbours house. 
 Pulling out your lock picks you look for anyone looking your way. Out of view, you break in to 
 the house. You sneak your way upstairs and you pause as you see a figure in bed. He rolls over. 
 You bite your lip as you creep past him. Sweat drips down your forehead as you reach in to his 
 bedside drawers and steal his earnings. Trying to be as quiet as possible, you make your way home 
 feeling pleased.
  
  This is just an average evening in Oblivion, and you'll be experiencing many of them in this open-ended 
 RPG by Bethesda. The whole object of the game is to do what you want, when you want, and Bethesda 
 has tried hard to implement this into Oblivion. They succeeded.
  
  Oblivion is all about freedom. You are no longer forced to watch cut scenes or trek through long-winded 
 dungeons just to get to the good stuff. For example; if your task is to kill someone, why just 
 whack them with your sword when you can slip poisoned apples into their food-cabinets or stick 
 an arrow in their head when they least expect it? And you're not limited in the games world either. 
 There are hundreds of kilometres of unexplored habitat, and you can go anywhere.
  
  The game world consists of towns, farms, mountains and rivers. It is littered with dungeons, caves 
 and wildlife and all are different from one-another. But the freedom doesn't stop at exploration. 
 Your character could be anything you want it to be. It could be of any race and any color. It could 
 be a thief, a knight, a mage... See my point yet? The possibilities are endless.
  
  On your travels you'll be fighting many-a-monster. You'll need to be properly equipped with your 
 weapon of choice to defeat it. Thankfully, the combat is smooth and reliable. All you need to do 
 is press square to bring out our weapon and press R1 to use it, and if needed, L1 is used to block. 
 There aren't random battles and turn-based combat either.
  
  Despite the huge world, the graphics are amazing. The environments are very detailed and full of 
 gorgeous scenery, everything looks crisp and sharp, and the frame rate rarely lags. The characters 
 do look similar, but they make up for it with a great variety of depth and detail.
  
  Mostly the sound is great with birds singing when your in the wilderness, grunts of trolls when 
 in battle and the conversations of people when lurking in a settlement. But with around 10 different 
 voice actors, it starts to go down-hill. When talking with someone, their voice actors actually 
 change mid-sentence which can lead to some confusion.
  
  The A. I is normally pretty good. Enemies will set off nearby traps when you stand in their path, 
 they'll go undetected and sneak around you, and they will block and attack when appropriate. However 
 the friendly A. I isn't as good. Constantly running into walls, running in front of your weapon 
 when your are trying to attack and enemy and not even following you when they are supposed to can 
 lead to frustration.
  
  The main quest can last up to 60 hours or more, but there are hundreds of side-missions which can 
 take hundreds of hours if you want to do everything. That's why the game play is fun and addictive. 
 The quests can range from joining a certain guild, like 'Ther Fighters Guild' which may pay you 
 to take care of certain monsters. Other guilds may require you to steal or even murder people. 
 Random strangers may ask for your help to defend their farm, or question a possible thief. All 
 quests are different and range in variety. But what if you need to get to the other side of the 
 map in a hurry? There is a 'quick travel' feature that can instantly teleport you to cities, or 
 anywhere you've previously visited instead of trekking kilometres for a petty quest.
  
  Overall, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an amazing game, full with gorgeous graphics and addicting 
 game play, but it is bought down by it's sound quirks and A. I madness to make every second of Oblivion 
 enjoyable. It constantly crashes, and some glitches can stop you from finishing quests. Despite 
 these flaws, Oblivion is still worth a purchase and will keep you occupied for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bholmes16
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 29, 2007 2:59 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion takes you to places that seem so real and tangible that it becomes difficult to realize 
 that you're just playing a character in this fantasy world. You can explore for endless hours to 
 complete quests and build up your character. Exploring Oblivion will envelop your mind and interest 
 like few other games. It is excitement that can be described through fighting, puzzle solving, 
 clue reading, and quest completing. There is nothing in the game that feels extraneous or without 
 place.
  In short, Oblivion should be played by anyone with a remote interest in good solid adventure and 
 a game with an engrossing storyline. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daphatcat
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2007 7:42 pm PT
Review:  I never thought I could get into RPG's... believe me, I've tried but to no avail. Oblivion changed 
 all that. Finally graphics, game play, storyline and a buffet of flexibility come together to make 
 a world you can immerse yourself in. Anything goes and thus you can't get frustrated about missing 
 out on minute details or secrets. As a hyper-analytical thinker, I often get discouraged thinking 
 what did I miss? Oblivions' endless opportunity to create your own path erases needless concern 
 for scrutinizing every detail. Less time wasted on perfection mean more time invested in pure enjoyment.
 
  
  This game reaffirms why purchasing the ps3 was the right move! Only being out for a short period 
 and having a title like this makes me anxious to see what will follow.
  
  A must play for any gamer!
  
  D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Deveo123
Rating: 10
Date: May 28, 2007 10:55 am PT
Review:  If your a game expert you probely already know this but this game is one of the most graphics and 
 interesting games on earth. as soon as you see someone play this game you say i want to play . 
 When you get in to this game you wont be able to stop. whats even better is that as soon as you 
 have the game beat you will want to spend even more time on the game. so many choices. there are 
 hundreds of quests. You can also be in tons of guilds and be lots of people. for example you can 
 be the grand champion but you have to earn it. just to let you know go out there and have fun with 
 this game because i sure am now!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3RULE
Rating: 4.8
Date: May 28, 2007 8:01 am PT
Review:  After reading many reviews, which I always do now before spending $60 on game, I could not wait 
 to get Oblivion. I riped it open and popped the game into my PS3. It ook me an hour just to choose 
 a character (race, abilities, etc) . The customization you can do on your character is OVERWHELMING 
 and way unnecessary, consider you do not even see yourself since it a 1st person game.
  
  After finally getting my character created, the game starts and the first mission is a tutorial, 
 which is helpful, but not helpful enough. Since most of the reviewers have cover just about every 
 aspect of this game, I am just going to hit on some keys points that make this game disappointing 
 to me and my wife.
  
  The Player controls are WAY to cumbersome!
  I bought the game for my wife, who loves RPG games and mysteries with limited action (fighting) . 
 She is not the most coordinated person on the planet. There is SO much stuff to control it is ridiculous. 
 It took me about 2 hours to get use to using the controls. My wife on the other hand is still trying 
 to learn and she is VERY frustrated. It's just to darn hard to move, look, change weapons and attach 
 ALL at the same time. You cannot wield more than one weapon and one magic power at a time, so in 
 the middle of a fight if you run out of power on magic or need to switch weapons, even using the 
 hotkeys is just a pain; too much to control. With so much to control it just takes the FUN OUT 
 of the game.
  
  As for the world... I love how big it is, but I have to agree with other reviewers that it is SO 
 BIG and does not have much stuff in it and it takes FOREVER to find anything or get anywhere especially 
 on foot. On horse back it is not so bad. However....
  
  On horse back, all you can do is ride, you cannot fight or wield any weapons while riding, which 
 is totally DUMB! In the old days that's the way they fought, from horse back; this is a total oversight 
 by game developers.
  
  The other problem with riding a horse across the open world is that you run in to wolves and other 
 foe quite often and you have dismount the horse to fight them, the remount to continue on your 
 journey, what a PAIN.
  
  The dialogue is slow and boring. The fight is annoying and hard to control, some foes are very 
 easy to kill other a nearly impossible (for me) ... there is no good medium.
  
  There also needs to be an auto game save mode, so I do not have to stop and save every few minutes.
 
  
  Over all I am disappointed with this purchase. True RPGers will love the game, 1st person shooter 
 types might not like it so much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: longhorn7
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 28, 2007 3:00 am PT
Review:  Very immersive. Very fun. The combat system is updated in a very good way, and it makes the fights 
 feel more like a fight than just clicking randomly like in Morrowind. The only problem- not open 
 ended enough, and not enough quests. Morrowind makes this game look like a toddler's RPG in the 
 content department, and I wish that this was not true. Oblivion brings TES into the mainstream 
 in a good way but it could have been done better. Worth the buy and is extremely fun- especially 
 to newcomers to the series. The ps3 version is a nice upgrade from the pc and 360 versions due 
 to the updated textures for things such as the craggyness of boulders, greater draw distance, and 
 shorter load times, but the difference is not really huge. The added Knights of the Nine adds to 
 the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-og
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 26, 2007 9:39 am PT
Review:  this game is amazing. posssibly one of the best games ever made. Theres just so many things you 
 can do. like sidequests and all.. IT will take you like 100 hours to beat the whole entire game 
 because it just so long. the graphics are very very good. The sound is good also, and the gameplay 
 is superb. i bought this game for $60 and i am totally happy with that price because it is deffinitely 
 worth it! The only bad thing i could say is it has NO online play. If it did it would be even more 
 amazing. like i said im not even halfway finished with this game but i know already that it is 
 a awesome game. So if you interested in this game you should go and rent it or even buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Benji100
Rating: 10
Date: May 26, 2007 5:01 am PT
Review:  Super Amazing Draw Distance. Crisp and High Definition Textures. Light Effects. This game has it 
 all visually.
  Sparkling textures, and the time of day light effect very slightly changes to make every minute 
 of the day brighter or darker from the next as you head into the evening.
  The sound quality in this game is just perfect - I would say a over a good 100 hours of voice acting 
 put into this to make it sound just right, I swear Sean bean is Martin :D. The Game play itself 
 is almost infinite. I have clocked up about 60 hours, and haven't scratched the surface of the 
 main story, meaning I've only done about 3 of the main quest missions. There's thousands of side 
 quests to earn some money or items. Also the guilds offer good rewards and experience, especially 
 once you start doing their more important quests, The Thieves Guild, in my opinion offers the best 
 reward for their final mission, as i haven't finished any of the other guilds yet, i could be mistaken 
 but I'm not going to spoil it for you, find out yourself :D. In my few hours, I haven't noticed 
 any sort of bugs.... at all. Others say there are bugs, possibly with audio, but I haven't come 
 across any yet. However, when you first play, the visuals may cause a headache. The frame rate 
 seems to be a little low, either that or motion blur. But it's not noticeable enough to get really 
 angry with it, and it shouldn't affect your game play.
  You will get used to it soon enough, when you see the moon shine on a snow-covered rock. Then you 
 will drool. Also, as a fair warning, I must tell you that this game is highly addictive. Once you 
 Start, you will not want to stop, You can really lose yourself in this game, from deep oceans to 
 vast enchanted forests filled with wildlife, such as deers wolves and other mythical creatures, 
 from vast mountain peaks such as Dive Rock to the Red Fire Enriched sky's of The planes of Oblivion, 
 you will feel right at home playing this.
  
  You will find some funny easter eggs aswell in this game, such as the Giant Mud crabs or Slaughterfishes, 
 and i guarantee when you beat the Imperial City Arena and start having the Adoring Fan following 
 you around, you will want to kill him &gt;: D 
::::::

::::::
UserName: a-tek
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 25, 2007 10:24 pm PT
Review:  Visuals. Textures. Light Effects. This game has it all visually. Good polygon count on everything, 
 luscious, shiny textures, and the time of day light effect very slightly changes to make every 
 minute of the day brighter or darker from the next. The sound is great too - there must be days 
 of voice acting put into it. Gameplay is almost infinite. I have about 20 hours, and haven't scratched 
 the surface of the main story, so my friends tell me. There's thousands of side quests to earn 
 some money or items. Also the guilds offer good rewards and experience. In my 20 hours, I haven't 
 noticed any sort of bugs.... at all. Others say there are bugs, possibly with audio, but I haven't 
 come across any yet. However, when you first play, the visuals may cause a headache. The framerate 
 seems to be a little low, either that or motion blur. You will get used to it soon enough, when 
 you see the moon shine on a snow-covered rock. Then you will drool. Also, as a fair warning, I 
 must tell you that this game is highly addictive. Most of you have already played this, so you 
 must know what I mean. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer1800
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 24, 2007 8:08 am PT
Review:  This is not a game to be missed. It is the best game i own on ps3 and if you do not have your own 
 copy by now you should be ashamed of yourself. The amount of freedom and things to do in this game 
 are absolutely phenomanal. The gameplay doesnt get old because there is so much to do!!! The graphics 
 on this game are incredible, absolutely positively AMAZING, SUPERIOR, ASTONISHING, the list goes 
 on... The only nag I have at this game is the stupidest thing they could possibly leave out. WHERE 
 THE HECK IS ONLINE PLAY!!!! this is the only nag i have and if the game had online compatiblilty, 
 I would give it a pure 10 for sure. =)
  
  As GS have said this is definitely not a game to be missed. I feel it is going to be talked about 
 for a long time as sony starts to catch up with microsoft and nintendo...
  
  BEST GAME EVER! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 23, 2007 2:39 am PT
Review:  if you want to know why Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is currently the best game for the ps3, here's 
 why: beautiful graphics and physics, a great script, excellent music and voice acting, a large, living, beautiful 
 and dangerous world to explore, hundreds of hours of questing, an engaging storyline, lots of things 
 to do, lots of NPCs, many items and monsters, fun battles and many more. but although there are some 
 framerate problems, no downloadable content, not enough new content and not being the best version 
 of Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion, this game is still the best ps3 game as of now. but only buy this game 
 if you have not yet played the other versions. if you didn't play them yet, and if it doesn't matter 
 to you if a game has downloadable content, buy Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ayion
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 21, 2007 6:06 am PT
Review:  This also the first RPG I enjoy playing on PS3, I give it a 9.9, the 0.1 point is I am not good 
 at any historic outside asia. But somehow I enjoy this game even I am a classic baseturn RPG lover. 
 Beside, this game worth even more of the price, I paid 69 bucks for such a great game, and I never 
 regret buying this game.
  
  Lastly, I would like everyone to know this game is complicated, but enjoyable with the Real World 
 judge such as stealing or illegally hitting people will be put in jail ( which I think it is great 
 ) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamikaze_dimmer
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 21, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  Oblivion... what can i say. The graphics are impressive, and if you got the right pc u can get 
 experience never to forget. You can spend hours of just walking around exploring the huge landscape, 
 looking at the enviroments and enjoy the grahpics. There may be one minus at the game. Its lvl 
 based, means the world changes depending what lvl you are. Like if you are lvl 1, all the npc's 
 is wearing junk armor and weapons. But if you are lvl 30, they wear deadric weapons n stuff. Which 
 i think is annoying. The music is nice and calm all the way, and changes to somefthing more exiteting 
 while in battle. The huge minus with oblivion is the main quest. And i only got one word for that 
 quest: BOORING!! dont get exiteted about it, cuz its nothing compared to morrowinds. In the end, 
 oblivion is a worthy follower of morrowind. But in the end, morrowind will still remain my favorite. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eyal8
Rating: 8
Date: May 5, 2008 6:00 am PT
Review:  OBLIVION has some high qualities in many ways, it's definitely a game that you shouldn't miss, 
 I haven't seen a gameplay so intense ever before.
  
  Graphics are perfect if you consider that there is so much to discover, the world is massive and 
 there are lots of little ditales which has never looked as good as they are in OBLIVION, even the 
 environments won't let you down....
  
  Graphics might be repetitive in some environments but overall the game has so much more details 
 which you'll unlikely find in any other games, however the voice acting in OBLIVION might be repetitive 
 more then once though it wouldn't change the intense and most realistic gaming experience.
  while the graphics do their job perfectly you'll find out that the gameplay will be very amusing.
 
  
  When you'll fight your enemies with a sword, axe, bow......... and more many weapons you'll get 
 to feel like you're really holding them in your own hands.
  OBLIVION features both first person and third person, storyline is pretty good but I really hate 
 when it comes to the OBLIVION gates, believe me, you really don't want to get into one of these.
 
  
  when a game has all these graphical and gameplay achievements it deserves to be the game of the 
 year, unfortunately the game does not features an online play or an offline multiplayer.
  the visuals are just something special the river and all the cities and woods will never look as 
 good as they are in other games in a million years.
  
  you can experience OBLIVION with many ways from riding on horses down the river to stealing somebody's 
 else stuff and resisting arrest it's just a shame that you cannot enjoy the sixaxis's motion sensor 
 capabilities !
  
  although you cannot play online or play with your partner right close to you OBLIVION is very enjoyable 
 and fun and you will be able to spent with it at least 20-40 hours, there are many weapons as there 
 are many cloths and shields.
  
  I have only question for you: do you know what the hell is O. I. T. G. F. E ? I guess you don't, do 
 you ?
  it means: OBLIVION Is The Game For Everyone
  
  P. S. Hope you liked the review, get the game while you can ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: woody_0609
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 18, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  I have beat the game. I have become the best rank in the mage's guild, thieve's guild, the fighters 
 guild, and the dark brotherhood. So it gets kind of boring after you beat all this, but it still 
 takes a long time to beat all of this anyways. I like that you can be many classes from orc's, 
 kahjit's, nord's, elve's, and many more. You can also make your character look how you wan't them 
 to look. This is game is just an all around fun game, so i suggest you buy it. It is worth your 
 time, unless your too busy to play this great game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alex1889
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 18, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  There is alot to say about this game, You should be pleased to know its alot of good if not fantastic 
 information. You will start of in a jail, similiar to the last game except youll be on land.
  Your freed when your cell turns out to be a secret passage for the king which is used to escape 
 from his assasins. Sadly they catch up and kill him and you get left with the amulet of kings which 
 you must deliver to the rightful heir.
  
  So thats the introduction and after a quick tutorial introduceing you to combat and quests youll 
 be let loose in one of the massive worlds the elder scrolls series is famous for. And its not just 
 poorley detailed jungles either. Theyre are plenty of citys and both differant and interesting 
 caves for you to raid. The people or monsters youll be encountering in the cave aren't stupid either, 
 infact the AI in this game is unbelieveably good. Charecters will sleep at night, close shops, 
 use food to survive, be superb in combat and they all sound realistic thanks to some brilliant 
 voice acting
  .
  Now the thing you probably notice first in a game is the graphics, for some games thats a bad thing 
 as the graphics aren't up to scratch but oblivions are beautiful. What good would beautiful graphics 
 be if they were never showed theyre true power, well the answer to this question doesn't matter 
 because they are constantly being pushed in all the hundreds of quests and the effects are breathtaking.
 
  
  So if you can't afford to many games for your system then buy this game, it will entertain you 
 for hundreds of hours and remind you why you love gameing so much. Now all we need is a morrowind 
 remake and i can live infront of my screen forever :D. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kameoxylon
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 14, 2007 7:30 pm PT
Review:  Well its an awesome game , especially for those who like rpg games or mmorpg's like me . But im 
 only dissapointed in one thing that it dosent have an online , multiplayer , LAN feature it would 
 make it one of the most amazing games ever to be created . Maybe even better than WoW ! But once 
 you get the hang of it , it gets pretty cool , you can buy a house , horse be a mage , archer , 
 warrior or maybe even all of them ( like me ) . It never gets boring , the game sound is pretty 
 relaxing but when some enemy is near by the music gets pretty anoying , there are quite a few Guilds 
 you can join that will feat your need . I keep telliing my friend to buy it but he wants project 
 8 and spiderman 3 I guess you cant change a persons will . Well oblivion wont let you down when 
 you buy it , the begining might be lame but when your out of prision its a new life ! I am right 
 now lv 10 and still going I have a house ( a big one ) horses and alot of items , the only reason 
 i got here is by using the duplicate items cheat ( i got to admit im a cheater ) . But without 
 this cheat the game is still as fun as always ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Oekelion
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 14, 2007 4:44 pm PT
Review:  This adventure RPG is very good and it is no wonder that there is so much blood. I wonder why it 
 is rated M ? It doesn't seem to be like that until you can go further in the game. You start off 
 by choosing your race. You can be an ogre, an elf, and even a tiger. I still don't get the downloadable 
 horse armor like in the other games. But the storyline is good. The emperor wishes to die after 
 being free from the prison. No, not that dramatic. I mean, some guy kills the emperor.
  Note how you can also be part of a group, such as a thief or a crusader. But the only problem is, 
 how come it's rated M for mature. Probably because of the killing. And LOZ: Twilight Princess is 
 rated T. And don't get me wrong, you spend over 200 total hours playing this game. That's over 
 the numbers of hours in a week! Which is good, though. As I was saying, this is the best PS3 game 
 played, and one of the best adventure games of all time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shacks210
Rating: 9.6
Date: May 13, 2007 6:39 pm PT
Review:  Let me start by saying I have not beat this game, although I am very far into it and find I have 
 played enough to write a review.
  
  The best part of the PS3 version of this game is having the Knights Of The Nine quest already tacked 
 on. Although, the quest itself is not very long and for the most part quite easy. Having it added 
 on to the game already is fine, but as for buying it seperate I found that it would not really 
 be worth it.
  
  The game starts with you creating a character of your own. The options are almost endless. The 
 first thing you do is deside your race and gender, then after a introduction you can choose a class 
 and birth sign to customize your hero even more. The best part is choosing a number of attributes 
 and skills and creating your very own class of any name you chose. So if you like being a wizard, 
 but do not want to be weak in weapons, you can make your character strong in both. This is a very 
 nice feature to bring to an RPG.
  
  Once you have your character you are out and on the road to anywhere in the huge world of Tamriel. 
 With many cities across the land full of people that need your help. There is so many quests in 
 this game it is easy to get lost in all the action and adventure. Although to finish all the quest 
 this game has would take a very long time. I would not believe the hype of how long things like 
 the Main Quest might take. The one reason I bought this game is because I was told the main quest 
 alone was about 20 hours worth of game play, yet what I have heard from anyone that has finished 
 it, it is quite short of that. If you deside to start the Main Quest right away you will have alot 
 of Oblivion gates to go through if you do not play the main quest from start to finish. I restarted 
 my character because of this. I found having to side track myself in a middle of a mission, because 
 I ran across a Oblivion gate. They are not hard, but can become very annoying have to take about 
 thirty minutes to close one and having them come along almost every five feet it seems. Now if 
 you do nothing with the main quest until you do all of the other quest, you will not have any worries 
 of running across these gates. The only other drawback to this game is it can get quite boring 
 at times and repetative. Not enough to keep you away for long though.
  
  You'll get stronger, as you play the game. You don't earn experience points as in a traditional 
 role-playing game. Instead, your skills become stronger as you use them. This can be easy to level 
 up or nopt so easy, depending on how you have created your character and what skills you have chosen. 
 Example, if you are a wizard and chose things like Blade or Blunt and main skills, well then you 
 should know you do not do much hand to hand fighting as a wizard. So skills like that will not 
 go up fast or often, so leveling will take along time.
  
  Graphicly this game is amazing! Everything looks so clear and beautiful and luckly with the PS3 
 the loading while walking, running or riding a horse is very smooth. The draw distance in the PlayStation 
 3 version of the game is a bit further than in the Xbox 360 version. Which means you can see further 
 and more things while looking out across a the land. You do have load screens when going into or 
 out of a city or dungeon with the PS3, but it is very fast and hardly noticable. The realisum of 
 the game while crawling around caves and dungeons is very creepy. Mist and eerie sounds and the 
 sound of far off voices make you feel you are actually there. The sound is great, very clear and 
 sharp. The sound of the game really pull you in.
  
  In all, I have to say this has to be the best RPG I have played. I have a hard time pulling myself 
 away from it at the end of the day. I can not imagine the next game of this series out doing this, 
 but I believe it will happen. This game is a must have for anyone that loves RPG's or just loves 
 to hack and slash creatures. Oblivion has everything for everyone. YOu can steal and kill everyone 
 you want, or be the big hero. Either way you will be able to sleep at night happy about your on 
 going adventure. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: archangellestat
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2007 9:06 am PT
Review:  It is actually a masterpiece ! ! ! have no idea what more someone could ask for ! ! !
  
  able to bet on fights . . become the ultimate gladiator . . buy . . sell . . improve through training 
 . . ride horses . . and sooooo much more ! ! ! The world is immense ! ! ! buy it and take ur time 
 with it ! ! ! u can always forget about a task u are unable to complete and move on to another 
 one . . i personally guarantee that they will be always enough quests in ur way ! ! as i like sayin 
 when i buy a new game and get addicted to it: BeSt gAmE eVeR bLeD ! ! ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raze35
Rating: 10
Date: May 13, 2007 2:10 am PT
Review:  Elderscrolls IV Oblivion on The Playstation 3 is similar to what PC and Xbox 360 gamers got last 
 year however there is few differences...
  
  Firstly the game is excellent its an easy to play easy to enjoy massive RPG that throughs you into 
 a wide open living and breathing fantasy world that offers limitless playability...
  
  the PS3 version offers KOTN (Knights Of The Nine) which was a downloadable content that could be 
 bought on Xbox Live, Downloaded of www. elderscrolls. com/store, or you Could buy the Retail Package 
 (PC only)
  
  KOTN boosts the gameplay hours from easily 10 - 20 hours depending on how far you walk of the beaten 
 path and how long it takes you, some skill may be involved...
  
  Comparisons: Xbox 360 has a good advantage that it offers great content that the Playstation Store 
 will not have for the later part of this year..., it really does need the 20 Gb or 120 Gb hard 
 disk that X360 either comes with or bought, PC gamers have the pleasure of Making and Downloading 
 Custom Content done thru the elderscrolls construction set which is availiable at the official 
 site... but you will fork out an arm and a leg to afford a PC to run it equivalent to X360 or Close 
 to PS3... Period!
  PS3 is by far the easiest to enjoy, it offers slightly superior draw distance to X360, far better 
 frame rates in certain instances, better load times and better land appearance rate, however no 
 content yet available and it does eat 5 out of 60 GB's of your Sony PS3 Hard drive for caching 
 which as far as i know is NOT optional you must do it, but the load times are tons better than 
 X360...
  
  the game is great and is definately my favourite PS3 title so far, looking forward to Shivering 
 Isles on PS3 to Boost up my Gameplay Hours...
  Worth buying for shure, even if you already passed Oblivion on other consoles it is a sheer thrill 
 to replay the game most circumstances! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ackad
Rating: 10
Date: May 22, 2007 4:09 pm PT
Review:  Wow when can I start!? Today I rented one Playstation Three game called Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. 
 Many of my friends had told me this game is very good in the 360 version. when I heard that it 
 was coming out for the Playstation Three, I started saving money to get this game. I usually checked 
 at Gamespot when will it come out, but when I saw it, it said that it was an RPG! I am like omg 
 this sucks!! But still, I waited patiently because I wanted to test this game out. Finally since 
 it came out already for the Playstation Three, I rented this game immediatly just to this game 
 out. After hearing about the Incident Tamriel and the Emperors death and playing then beggining, 
 I fell in love with this game!! If your a Playstation Three Owner THIS IS A MUST BUY!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_Boy
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 11, 2007 12:17 pm PT
Review:  Wow i had it on 360 but this was just much better 4 me graphics better controls better and the 
 knights of the nine mad it alot better always wanted that add on but never had Live and on the 
 360 it always froze on me PS3 one never has so far so i give this a superb ratein better than i 
 gave the 360 one and it deserves it and i hope there will be another elder scrolls soon and a good 
 story to it like this one and if the graphics can get any better i hope there can lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chris-Parker
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 11, 2007 8:35 am PT
Review:  A simply outstanding game, which will keep you busy for weeks! Hundreds of varying quests ranging 
 from rescuing a chaps house from a horde of ogres to travelling the vast expanse of cyrodill in 
 search of a cure for vampirism!! EXCELLENT FUN, which bottom line is all we are looking for in 
 a game! My only negative point would be that the main plots a bit on the thin side but the side 
 quest more than make up for it. Anyone reading this thinking about buying the game, please ignore 
 all reviews rating this game less than 8 out of 10, I know this section is about opinion but 4.4 
 I mean come on get real, some people are down right fussy!!!!! Go back to playing Pac-man! Just 
 buy it you wont regret it!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KnowSkillz
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 10, 2007 6:41 pm PT
Review:  From the beginning of the game you go through a dungeon, walk out a door into daylight of the largest 
 map I've ever seen. You literally have hundreds of hours worth of quests, faction quests, side 
 quests, freeform quest, and other misc. stuff to do. The game is so innovative that you can do 
 anything your mind can conceive. You can choose your disposition 'from a good guy or villain or 
 somewhere in between. You can create your own magic spells or you can make a big tank fighter that 
 steam rolls through massive amounts of leveled (meaning the game gets harder as you get stronger) 
 enemies. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: shazaila
Rating: 8.3
Date: May 13, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  Given the lack of PS3 games at the moment, I decided to give the elder scrolls IV: Oblivion a shot. 
 Through frustrating times, and the long learning curve of the game, I had some how been able to 
 muster some enjoyment from the game. Oblivion is a great game, stellar for some, but as a person 
 who has heard the this is the game that everyone will enjoy, and this is worth buying a next generation 
 console for, or upgrading your computer to the max to play. I beg to differ.
  
  The core gameplay in oblivion differs depending on the race that you have chosen. While a mage 
 can use a sword, and a warrior can use magic, you'd do good to stick to what you excel at. As a 
 Dark Elf I hack and slash through enemies, and I use the occasional magic attack. The bow and arrow 
 gets some use, but not as much as the sword and shield. While this is fun for a while, it does 
 get redundant at times. However, there's a good variety of quests that should keep the gameplay 
 nice and fresh. There's plenty to do in the game. While I doubt I'll pour 200 hundred hours into 
 the game, I think if I work at it, I can get a good 80 hours or so. There are plenty of side quests 
 to give you a break from the main quest. Some are nice and easy and you can breeze by, however, 
 some take a little more time than others. The create mode for you character is good, but not enough. 
 There are plenty of races to keep you guessing which one should you pour so much time and effort 
 into, and it's doubtful for one to make more than on character and put the same effort into one 
 of them, as much as the other.
  
  The visuals in Oblivion look nice, Key word, nice, nothing too special. While it does pass the 
 next gen look (on HD TV) , there's still much to be desired. The character models are good, but 
 get repetitive. The Frame rate hitches every now and then, but nothing too big to get you talking 
 too much about. The environments looks great, especially on an HD TV. Your weapons, armor, and 
 just about everything in Oblivion look great, it's just that I would expect more from a next generation 
 game. Furthermore, the game only runs in 720P, which was a disappointment.
  
  The sound in Oblivion is actually pretty good, but it's over used. The women and men have the same 
 voices, on different faces. But it's not as bad as it sounds. The music in the game is good, but 
 it does get a little depressing. A little up beat music never hurt anyone. The swords, the shields, 
 arrows, magic, they sound nice, and give you a nice feeling, whether it being crushing someone's 
 skull, or healing your wounds.
  
  The Eder scrolls IV: Oblivion is a satisfying role playing game; however, with all the hype the 
 game generated, I was expecting to see something that'll truly warrant the price of my PS3. While 
 a good game lies in here, you must be patient to see the good stuff. Anyone looking for a good 
 game for their PS3, go for it, but dont go in expecting too much, a great game? Defiantly, Game 
 of the year? Not for me. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trasherhead
Rating: 7.2
Date: May 10, 2007 8:58 am PT
Review:  What could I posibly say to offend this game? Oh there is alot: D
  
  Lets start with graphics.
  
  Sure it looks beautiful at first glance. Buuut as so many before 
 it fails to deliver.
  What am I talking about? Well, what about the rain and snow? The fact that its just a filter so 
 that it isn't realy in the game world, but rather somethign that is put onto the camera. This results 
 in the fact that it snows and rains when your under a roof. It rains staright through. Also the 
 NPC's have no posible way to interact with the snow/rain. The HDR lighting. It just makes everything 
 look like plastic. Sure it does look good in the horizon and gives a realy nice lighting to the 
 world. But they have, as so many others, over used it. By making everything shine. When in the 
 deepest pitts of hell did grass start to shine like that? sure if it had just rained (but since 
 the rain is just a filter, it can't pose any physical difference onto the enviorment) it would 
 shine a bit.
  As for snow, pouder snow does NOT shine either.
  
  Then we got the charracter movment in 3rd person. again, no physics. It doesn't interact with the 
 world on a higher level then colision with things.
  When your standing still and your turning around its legs just stands still.
  
  The water, 
 looks realy nice on the surface. But when you get into it it realy realy sucks. You can barly see 
 more then 3 meters infront of you, which would have been solved easly with haveing a blure filter 
 on like they have in WOW and have longer view disstance.
  Then when your swiming on the surface you can't see throgth the water at all.
  
  One pluss 
 is that the world is dynamic in the way that things do move. Leaves shiver etc.
  
  There should also be physics on the world. atm there is only light items that you can pic ut that 
 has any for of physics.
  
  This are just at the top of my head right now. But we are in the High Def gen now, and I for one 
 expect alot more from games now then what I did back when I was playing my PSX. These sort of things 
 should realy not be happening and when MGS2, a 5 year old game is able to have rain that interacts 
 with the gameworld I expect a game that is only 1 year old to do the same.
  
  Now, the game in general looks good, not great, but good. All the charracter models look like crap 
 though, ugly and retarded.
  
  The gameplay on the other hand is quite good actualy. which weights up of alot of the shortcommings 
 of the game.
  The sword, bow and magic fighting works realy well imo. Nothing more to realy say about that. Traveling 
 isn't realy a hassle either with the quick travel option.
  The general enviorment is good too, with the buildings and trees not looking to akwardly placed.
 
  
  Voice acting. Well, it doesn't suck too much. But few more voices would have been nice. Im sure 
 there isn't more then 4 or 6 different voices.
  So that part gets boring and it doesn't get me to rallyed up.
  
  The leveling system. I like 
 the learning by doing system, BUT they should have an Exp system for leveling your charracter and 
 making it stronger.
  
  THen you have the social aspect of the game, there isn't any. There is no point in buying the houses 
 you can buy and no real need for money in general other then to create your own spells, enchants 
 and to repair your weapons in the beginning of the game.
  
  In closing, this game HAD alot of potential, but failed to deliver. As so many many other games 
 now a days. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: medhopeful
Rating: 9.3
Date: May 10, 2007 10:40 am PT
Review:  Oblivion serves as a reminder of what next-generation game should be. I looked forward to this 
 game for nearly 2 1/2 years (cpu could not play it) , and I was still astonished at just how good 
 of a game it was. After getting through the sewers (a rather tedious beginning) and entering the 
 overworld I was actually stunned at how gorgeous the environment was. Reading about this game does 
 not do it justice. Take every aspect of Morrowind and multiply it by 100 and that is about what 
 Oblivion would be. The graphics for Oblivion challenge the gameplay for being the most memorable 
 part of the game. I have never experienced views so breathtaking in a video game. After playing 
 for many, many (throw a few more many's in there) I will still stop occassionaly just to look around 
 at the overworld. Unfortunately, there are times where the framerate slows down to near painstaking 
 levels. Were the graphics not so stunning, this would not seem like such a bad thing since it does 
 not happen all that much, but the graphics are stunning so it sticks out like a sore thumb when 
 it does happen. Another slight problem is that sometimes when people are talking their mouths will 
 stop moving long before they are done talking. This is not nearly as bad as the framerate, at least 
 for me, because you can skip through speech alot of the time.
  
  Also, the graphics could have been improved in regard to environment interaction between both the 
 NPC's and your character. You walk through grass and nothing moves, and you can even walk right 
 through large bushes. Another minor thing, but I figured that would be fixed from Elder Scrolls 
 3. Similarly, it would be nice to see precipitation affect all the characters in terms of their 
 appearance (like making them look wet) .
  
  I am not going to discuss the pros of gameplay here very much because there is a good chance you 
 have heard about it a million times already. You truly can do and be anything that you desire. 
 There is an unbelievable amount of depth to this game. I have played for at least 30 hours and 
 I have only done about 90 minutes worth of the main quest (it should be noted that I do not fast 
 travel much because I like to walk around) . If you get tired of doing the endless amount of quests 
 then there are ruins and caves dotting the landscape that you can raid. Combat is vastly improved 
 from Elder Scrolls 3, and to further enhance it Bethesda implemented a system where the enemies 
 level up with you to keep fighting interesting. However, it can get frustrating sometimes because 
 it can begin to feel like you are getting nowhere in terms of fighting experience, but it does 
 keep the game challenging. I tend to only feel this way when I am tired from playing for long periods 
 of time though. The main gripe I have with fighting, and maybe this is just me, is that I have 
 an extremely hard time with goblins. It irritates me because it just seems like goblins should 
 be one of the easier things to kill. Another gripe I have with this game is that the quests can 
 get tedious at times. You can only go through caves so many times in a row before you get tired 
 of it. A prime example of this is in the fighter's guild missions. It seems like you have 4 or 
 5 missions in a row that involve going through caves and clearing out all the monsters. To make 
 it worse, half of these involved killing essentially nothing but trolls. However, this is the only 
 time I really had this problem worth mentioning. It has happened other times, but it never got 
 nearly as bad as with the Fighter's Guild.
  
  In addition, it would be nice to see the NPC's be more reactive to their social environment. This 
 is evident in two aspects of gameplay: criminal acts and Oblivion Gates. While I like being able 
 to commit numerous crimes without ever really having any major implications, it would be more realistic 
 if it had a lasting impact on your image with the people. You can kill someone, have it be noticed 
 by the guards, pay your fine, and then it will be like you never killed the person. The other problem, 
 and this bothers me alot, is that Oblivion Gates can open up basically right next to a town or 
 settlement, and no one even mentions it. I am not saying the people should run in fear because 
 obviously that could potentially diminish the overall gameplay, but they should at least talk about 
 it and be scared. Less people in the streets, more guards, anything! These Gates are supposed to 
 be frightening things, but that point is not readily made when no one acts like they are scared. 
 It is like the city of Kvatch was not burnt down. That just really bothers me.
  
  One last problem I have with the gameplay, and this is really being nitpicky, is the relatively 
 low amount of money the merchants have to barter with. Only a few have 1200 gold, assuming you 
 are not a master of mercantile with the ability to invest in stores, yet there are many items worth 
 more than this. Not really a problem at all, just something I think could have been handled better. 
 It is better than Elder Scrolls 3, though, because the merchants never lose money.
  
  The sound, like the graphics, is very impressive and clear. It is Implemented in such a way to 
 really add to the mood of what is giong around you. I have found two problems with the sound (nothing 
 is perfect) . The first is trivial and merely a personal choice: I liked the soundtrack to Elder 
 Scrolls 3 a little bit more. Not even the whole soundtrack actually, just the overworld music really 
 stood out to me. Nothing in Oblivion, in my mind, compares with that track. The second problem 
 is sometimes you will hear background conversations and they will just stop even though they are 
 clearly not done speaking. Not something that really affects the game, but it detracts from the 
 realism that Bethesda was going for.
  
  Oblivion is probably a little more difficult than most games are for the average gamer because 
 of the breadth of the game. If you are not used to games like this it can be tough to get started 
 and select a character that will not only be enjoyable for you but will also perform well in the 
 game. Once doing this you are faced with the task of getting acclimated to how huge Oblivion is. 
 There are so many things to do that one can easily get lost in the game. It takes awhile to figure 
 out exactly what your role in Oblivion will be. On the same note, it is difficult to figure out 
 what you can get away with in terms of stealing and fighting. You can not go around unnoticed and/or 
 picking fights with anyone at will without adequate training, but you sort of need to do this at 
 first in order to find out what your limits are so that you do not constantly get yourself killed 
 or arrested. I reccommend saving often at first while you are experimenting with these sorts of 
 things.
  
  Reading my review might make you think there are a number of things wrong with this game, but everything 
 that I discussed barely detract from the game, if at all. I pointed these minor problems out to 
 stress how great this game is. Major problems really do not exist in this game. To wrap up this 
 lengthy review (a big review for a big game!) , good luck with Oblivion and do not get discouraged 
 at first! You will be very pleased once things get going. So fear not, it is huge at the beginning 
 but there will be plenty to keep you busy from start to finish. And if you do happen to get bored, 
 just do what I do - go for a walk and check out the scenery! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: slim-pagey
Rating: 9.2
Date: May 8, 2007 10:06 am PT
Review:  oblivion, is a great game to play, the stroy line is cool, and plus there are lots of extra quests 
 to do aswell as the mian storyline one. The ability to change from 1rst person to 3rd person is 
 a lso a great thing about it. The map is huge and has loads of places to explore. obliviion lets 
 you live anouther life. This game is great for players who love exporing and being able to use 
 mele, magic and range. The weapons are cool aswell along with the magic that you can cast.
  
  Overall, this game should not be missed because you can do lots of things that can keep you 
 occupied for agezzz. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Coahtemoc
Rating: 4.4
Date: May 7, 2007 2:55 pm PT
Review:  You can walk for an hour and only see a deer that scampers off, what's the point? And what's with 
 the names? Wursh-go-Grabak? What kind of name is that? Japanese RPs are way better. It's disappointing, 
 its a huge world, with no substance, pathetic. And leveled enimies are dumb too, why keep things 
 controlled? The point of being a high level is to slaughter some things, and get owned by the others, 
 there's no challenge in the game, it says it's an open world, but it's not, you're more like in 
 a glass tunnel, looking out at all the stuff they said you could do. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ross102
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 7, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  This is the most immersive and finest techincal achivement for a game to date. I have spent upwards 
 of 60 hours playing this and i havnt even started the main quest yet. If you own a ps3 this is 
 an essential title. Only downside is a stuttery framerate which prevents it from a perfect 10 and 
 it can be a daunting prospect to play such a hugh game as your left to your own devices but even 
 this dosent take away the fact that this is the best title of any system to date!
  
  Pros:
  
  Hugely Immersive World
  Beautiful Graphics
  Stunning Soundtrack
  Intelligent 
 A. I
  100+ Hours Of Gameplay
  
  Cons:
  
  Stuttery Framerate
  Can be a daunting prospect at first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jaz12
Rating: 9.9
Date: May 7, 2007 2:53 am PT
Review:  This game is already a classic, with great graphics, exciting gameplay, excellent voice overs, 
 amazing AI and its just plain fun. You will be playing this game for hours and hours and still 
 love the game. Even if you stop playing for a while you can start playing it again and you will 
 be instantly addicted to the game again.
  
  You can customized your characters appearance, skills and their life to the max.
  With the choice 
 of being good or evil you can play the game the way you want to play it.
  
  If you don't have the game already what the heck are you waiting go buy it now!!! thrust me you 
 will not regret it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vidplayer8
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 5, 2007 9:45 pm PT
Review:  This game has got to be one of my top favorites right now. The graphics were completely fantastic, 
 the gameplay was immersive, great voice acting, and the choice to follow the main quest or the 
 numerous side quests was perfect. At first the massive area you can travel in looks intimidating, 
 but once you start playing you'll swear it will have only been an hour. The scenery was wonderful. 
 I've spent time just looking around at the scenery. Trust me, it doesn't disappoint.
  
  When making your character, the game offers many ways to change them in many possibilities.
  
 One thing I loved about this game, was the custom things you can make. You can enchant armor and 
 weapons, make potions, and even make spells among other things. And this game also comes with the 
 Knight of the Nine expansion.
  
  As for the difficulty, the game offers a great tutorial when you first start, and as you come upon 
 new things, it gives you others to help you along. It make take 30 to 60 minutes to start getting 
 into the gameplay, and learning how to do everything, but it will go by quick.
  I have not played the 360 version, nor the PC one so I could not tell you a difference. But when 
 all is said and done, Elder Scrolls IV Oblivion is a great game for any PS3 owner. So go on, get 
 to the store, you won't want to miss it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Xuljester
Rating: 5.5
Date: May 5, 2007 5:05 pm PT
Review:  So, I don't usually write reviews for games, but seeing all of the positive reviews here, I figured 
 what the hell . Here's my not-so-grand review of a not-so-grand game.
  
  *Note: This review is much longer than I intended it to be, as such, if you want the gist of it, 
 simply skip down to the final few paragraphs to get an idea of what I'm babbling about. And for 
 those of you who are truly lazy, just read the final line.
  
  Let's start out with the positive... Character creation! I've had quite a bit of fun with the face 
 generator. Who wouldn't? You can make your hero a deformed half-wit with brutish strength, a cool 
 cat who's light on his feet, or a jack of all trades who looks suspiciously like you. Of course, 
 you can really only customize his facial features so extensively. When it comes to hair, it really 
 isn't so great, and the body... Where the hell did this option go?? All-in-all though, I suppose 
 it's good enough for me. Mind you, my expectations of all games is sub-par. I would ike to point 
 out though that I've a save at the point right before you leave your first dungeon, the point at 
 which you can make any changes you wish to your character before actually setting out in to the 
 world.
  
  Staying with the whole customization deal, let's move on to progressive customization. This includes 
 clothing, armor, weapons, spells, and extra character customizations. So, clothing... Nothing too 
 grand really. You've got a decent range of clothing that you can wear, steal, buy, sell, loot, 
 etc. None of it really looks spectacular though. I mean in the setting of the game's world, of 
 course. The nobles look like middle-class townsfolk, the commoners look like they're a bit poor, 
 and the beggars... Well, they've got the choice of rags or birthday suit, so nothing more to be 
 said about them. Basically, I think they could have put a bit more work in to clothing, but then 
 again, who wears clothes when you're fighting off 40-foot demon-gods from a hellish plane of existence 
 come to retake your world? Actually... I kind of did that.
  
  Let's take a look at armor now... So you've got your light armor and you've got your heavy armor. 
 That's pretty much it for armor categories, and that's actually pretty much it for armor too. Your 
 light armor consists of fur, leather, then chainmail, mithril, elven, then... glass. Yeah, that's 
 right, glass is armor! It sounds a bit ridiculous, but I suppose it makes sense in an insane kind 
 of way. Mind you, I do realize that the Elder Scrolls games aren't the first to employ this radical 
 type of armor, but it still bugs me. Anyhow, now for heavy armor. So, heavy armor is pretty much 
 just iron, steel, orcish, dwarven, ebony, and daedric. Again, none of these look really spectacular, 
 but they'll do. And sure, it looks like there's quite a bit of armor, but really there isn't. Aside 
 from the standard armor, there really isn't anything that looks unique, and in a fantasy game like 
 Oblivion, you'd expect to see some more unique looking armor, not just unique in stats. What truly 
 bothered me about the armor though is the fact that it's entirely dependant on your level. You 
 won't see any of the higher gear until you actually reach a preset level and then you'll start 
 finding it, almost as if the world suddenly was swarmed by it. Honestly, it just sounds, looks, 
 and feels riduculous to me.
  
  Okay, now for weapons! Oh goodie... The first thing I want to point out is the fact that, for some 
 reason unknown to me, I can't seem to dual wield anything. You'd think you'd be able to run around 
 with daggers held akimbo, at the very least, but alas, if you want something to be held in your 
 other hand, you'll have to make due with a shield, or your balls. So, anyhow, I'm fairly impressed 
 with the weapons, although there seems to be just as many types of weapons as armor, if you take 
 in to account the different pieces of armor and set it side by side with the different classes 
 of weapons. For bladed weapons you have your daggers, short swords, long swords, and two-handed 
 swords. Oh, you've also got katanas, but they seem to only be produced by some low-income designer 
 company known as the Akiviri. Anyhow, then for blunt weapons you have clubs, maces, war axes, battle 
 axes, and warhammers. Now, I didn't fiddle with blunt weapons so much because they just didn't 
 get the job done for me. So, let's just move on to bows... Which is pretty much the only type of 
 bow there is. You don't have longbows or shortbows or crossbows. All you have is bows. And then 
 for staves, they're all enchanted and are basically magic cannons that splurge spells when you 
 point them. Think wooden pole-guns . Anyhow, for all of these, save for the katanas, staves, and 
 the cutlass which I forgot to mention, they rank up similar to armor. As a matter of fact, they 
 are so similar they even have the same name. That's right, you'll get daedric shortswords, elven 
 bows, dwarven warhammers, glass daggers, etc. And again, they all appear according to your level. 
 It seems there are a few unique --by Oblivion's standards, meaning unique by stats, not by looks -- weapons. 
 Honestly though, there is no more than the unique armor, so don't expect to find a grand load of 
 truly Oblivionique (meaning Oblivion-unique) weapons.
  
  Okay, now that we've run through clothing, armor, and weapons, let's get to the customizing of 
 such. In Oblivion you can customize, or enchant rather, anything and everything you can wear or 
 wield, that isn't already customized, of course. You can pretty much enchant anything you want 
 on to your gear, so long as you can provide the proper materials and know the right spells. Oh, 
 and for some reason, you have to pay money to enchant, even though it seems that all enchanting 
 pedestals are free-to-use. What really gets me going though is the fact that you have to pass a 
 long series of trials by obtaining recommendations from every mage's guild in order to access these 
 pedestals. It wouldn't be so bad if the enchanting was more worth the trouble, but as it is, unless 
 you plan to create some cheat items, like the chameleon set (100% chameleon) , basically turning 
 you in to Mr. Invisible, or a some sort of super-feather set to boost the amount of weight you 
 can carry, rather than making the item lighter which would make a lot more sense, it's really quite 
 pointless. Of course, you also get access to spellmaking, which can be a bit more useful, but still 
 not worth the trouble as most spells can be bought. They may not be as precise or as effective 
 as a custom made spell, but they got the job done, and don't cost you as much time acquiring them.
 
  
  Moving on to the extra character customizations. There really is only one thing you can do to customize 
 your character beyond initial customization and, of course, clothing/armor/weapons/etc. What is 
 it? Why, you can become a vampire! Awesome, right? Wrong. You get a lot of bonuses, but you end 
 up taking damage from the sun if you don't feed, and when you take damage from the sun you can't 
 fast-travel, or rest, or wait. That isn't the part that made me not want to be a nightwalker. I 
 didn't have a problem dealing with my new weaknesses, it was my new facial appearance instead. 
 That's right, as a vampire, you have the appearance of an old man! Even being fully fed, you still 
 look like you wear depends diapers and your pants should sit higher than they do. When you don't 
 feed you start looking older and worse for wear, but oddly enough, you eventually get once-a-day 
 spells that are very nice, or would be if they weren't once-a-day. The real kicker is the charm 
 spell you get, but looking like you do, you can't help but wonder how a spell would help an old 
 man like yourself woo the women. I wouldn't mind if I could look younger, yet more vicious, the 
 longer I went without feeding, or something like that, but the wrinkles just bothered me to the 
 point where I just had to get myself cured. But as with many great sounding offers, it's easier 
 to turn vampire than it is to go back. So, getting cured will take another hour or two, real time 
 mind you. All in all, going vampire isn't worth it, and being the only extra , you can't help but 
 wonder what the hell happened .
  
  Let's take a look at quests now. Starting from the moment you step out of the sewers -- after being 
 sprung, by the king, from your cell, which has a secret passage leading out, that you somehow didn't 
 find yourself -- you're on your own... Sort of. You're pretty much told then that you can go anywhere 
 and do anything, or you can go and do the main quest, it's up to you. For some reason though I 
 felt like Bethesda was there holding my hand for the entirety of the game. At first I felt a bit 
 free, and overwhelmed, so I decided to set out and get accustomed to the world. The first thing 
 I came across was a guard on horse back, so I thought to myself oooh, a horsie, and a guard, and 
 no one else is around , and thus began my life of crime, or so I thought. Little did I know that, 
 even though I wasn't being watched by anyone but the man I was murdering, I would still be accused 
 of the murder and theft of his horse. Unfortunately, I didn't find this out until I stumbled across 
 another guard as I was strolling along on horseback along a lonely road on a lonely night, who 
 promptly accused me and charged me with my freshly committed crimes. So, naturally, I beat his 
 face in, stole his gear, and teabagged his corpse. I guess word travels really fast, because a 
 day's ride away, at a town on the brink of this country, two more guards accused and accosted me 
 with murder and theft. So now I knew I would not be able to step foot near a city or travel the 
 roads without having a finger pointed in my face and being called a murderer, or scum. So I did 
 my time, got my goods back, including the stuff I looted off of the corpses of those guards. Err, 
 okay, back to the quests... Now that I know that I can't do whatever I want, whenever I want, without 
 being called a criminal (so much for being the bad guy) , I figured I may as well do some quests. 
 The moment I began the quest dialogue I felt as if I were playing one of those tradmill MMORPGs, 
 and I then felt Bethesda squeeze my hand a little tighter and begin to pull me along. I didn't 
 know at the time that the quest I was doing, and every quest I would do in this world, would include 
 crawling through some bloody dungeon, killing it's inhabitants, and looting everything I saw. At 
 this point I felt like an MMORPG would have actually been a better investment, as atleast then 
 I'd have the comfort of social interraction to keep me company through the long, dark, and dank 
 caves. The few quests which took place outside of a cavern was a nice breath of fresh air, but 
 they were so far and few between that they really don't even feel that great at all, and seem far 
 too short. I'd like to point out that I found myself turning back to my life of crime whenever 
 I had the chance, usually in between quests. Unfortunately, I found that stealing anything from 
 containers or tables or even the floor in an owned building would label that item as stolen. Why? 
 How? Who's tagging everyone's goods!? Apparently waving to guards will give them the opportunity 
 to sift through your pack, or wherever you keep everything, and find those stolen goods, at which 
 point they'll charge you with theft, give you three options, and either confiscate your stuff, 
 or get their face pounded in. It was at this point that I felt Bethesda reach for my balls... And 
 I'd never felt so confined, even being in a sandbox like Oblivion.
  
  So often I found myself wishing I could be on the other side of the conflict. Like when I was sent 
 to kill necromancers... I was so willing to give up everything and be bad. But no, that wasn't 
 going to happen. Why? Because I'm the hero of this story, and God forbid that I be my bad little 
 self in a fantasy world where I'm told I can do anything I want. That's the little tid-bit Bethesda 
 forgets to tell you; you can do anything you want, so long as it is what we have planned for you 
 to do and has been pre-approved by us, and has a quest to go along with it! In sane-speak it means 
 Shut up, sit down, and let us hold your hand while we read you a story and show you some pictures 
 that you can touch, poke, and feel, but can't have. What more is there to do at this point than 
 to continue on with the main story's quest? Why bother with any more of these side quests? So, 
 I went and did the main story. Guess what I found? A very short, very lacking, and very uninteresting 
 series of quests that took me to a world I wish I could actually live in, explore, and become a 
 part of. But being Oblivion, which is actually what this other plane of existence is called, I 
 found that the only purpose of these areas was to provide for me more dungeons in which I could 
 do my questing. In effect, the planes of Oblivion became a dungeon with a red sky as a roof.
  
  The last subject I want to touch on before I get on with my life is the fact that whatever 
 I do, unless I was meant to do it -- which, sometimes, would still mean nothing to the world around 
 me -- would have very little effect on the world. Even if I were to go on a killing spree, murdering 
 guards, townsfolk, and livestock -- and by livestock I mean the countless horses and occassional 
 sheep -- you would not see my actions reflected in the newsletters and you wouldn't see the townspeople 
 cower in my presence. Not only that, when confronted by guards, I still had the option to pay my 
 fines! And if I were to go to prison? I'd simply do some time, lose some stats, and come out as 
 if nothing had happened. What the hell kind of sandbox am I playing in? Bethesda has given me my 
 Tonka Trucks and Army Men, but the sand I move and sift aside simply resets itself as if it hadn't 
 moved at all.
  
  After spending some 40+ hours in this game, and completing countless quests, and enduring the tiresome 
 storyline, I've finally called it quits. I've no reason to go back and replay the game. I've no 
 reason to pull it back off my shelf. Actually, the only thing left for me to do is mess with that 
 game save, the one right before I exit the first dungeon, where I get to make any final changes 
 I want to my race, class, or facial features. Oblivion does not have the right to boast it's countless 
 hours of game play, because it isn't play , it's grinding. I estimate that there is atleast another 
 good 40+ hours of grinding in that game left for me to do, of which, I'll do none of because it's 
 so unbelievably pointless and mind-numbingly boring.
  
  Let go of my hand Bethesda, and stop trying to fondle my balls. You can tell me what you'd like, 
 but I still won't love you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PointlessFool
Rating: 7
Date: May 4, 2007 10:15 pm PT
Review:  The Xbox 360 and PC versions of this game were amazing when they came out, and this is coming from 
 a jaded shooter fan. The problem with this game is that it is a full year to late.
  
  The graphics are barely better than the 360 version, and not worth the inevitably higher price 
 tag at all. Sound is exactly the same.
  
  The gameplay in Oblivion will please anyone at first, but tapers off for some people. This hasn't 
 changed at all on the PS3. Some of you will love it, others not so much.
  
  The biggest problem with this port is that all of the DLC on the 360 and PC is unavailable. I loved 
 the Wizard's tower, and quite frankly, not having it is disappointing.
  
  All in all, Oblivion rocks, but it's not worth the wait for PS3 at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ff10andff12
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 4, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  Oblivion compared the Marrowind is just uncomparable. Oblivion is by far the best elderscrolls 
 game to date. The world is absolutely beautiful. The draw distance is much much better than the 
 360's. The Ps3 version suffers from a few frame rate problems but nothing that sticks out like 
 a sore eye. I think the sound coulve been better for the effecs but the sound track is very heart 
 warming and enjoyable to listen to. The game is almost fully customizable concerning your character, 
 from setting your attribute and achieving skill points for the skills you most desire or becoming 
 a certain class that you want due to your actions. A lot of real world exploring is fun and exploring 
 multiple cloustrophobic dungeons is axhilerating and heart pumping. The story line is pretty involving 
 compared to marrowind. It is a lot more in dephth and detailed in my opinion. You will get lost 
 from time to time exploring the mountain side or wandering through dungeons killing goblins and 
 vampires, but it all worth it finding new and most powerful weapons. With all that said I hope 
 you find my words of good use :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Weitojour
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2007 8:09 am PT
Review:  a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa a a a a a 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a aa aa 
 a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a 
 a a aa a 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tomcat1234
Rating: 9.4
Date: May 3, 2007 6:05 am PT
Review:  After three weeks of (almost) daily play I'm just getting the hang of this game. I was overwhelmed 
 at first since I have little experience with computer role-playing games but this game has turned 
 out to be VERY entertaining. The maps and/or compass are a little hard to figure out at first but 
 I have finally mastered their use and it has improved my quality of play. I wasn't prepared for 
 all the thievery and constant lock-picking required but it has turned out to be a fun aspect of 
 the game. One gripe I would have is that gold is hard to come by (at least in the early stage) 
 and any worthwhile item is going to be EXPENSIVE! I would recommend saving for a house early in 
 the game (you will find saving gold to be quite difficult since there are so many items to buy) 
 but you will have to leave many items behind as you go out hunting for more through the various 
 caves, dungeons, and ruins. Otherwise you will be over-encumbered and unable to move. The cheapest 
 house is 2,000 gold! And that's for a hovel in the slums of the waterfront district of Imperial 
 City! All in all it has been a great game and I've barely scratched the surface of the available 
 quests. If you like incredibly detailed role-playing games you can't go wrong with this one! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LukasN82
Rating: 9.8
Date: May 1, 2007 5:54 am PT
Review:  This game says it all, no matter which platforms it lands to its appeal does not leave out in the 
 cold. I have the honor of playing the game on both the ps3 and 360, and wow, Bethesda surely did 
 an amazing job porting this masterpiece over the ps3, from visuals to sound to gameplay, this game 
 will have you hook for months and months, so be warned lol. The ps3 version did get some improvements, 
 faster loading times (don't be scared of exiting that door to see that loading screen) , sound derpartment 
 is well done as well except some minor problems that leaves you reaching for ear plugs due to some 
 bug that occurs during fighting scenes. HD really put a great label on this game. it makes you 
 wanna stare and paint the screen, its breathtaking, and the music is at its best. As I said before, 
 be warned for it will put you into your own little world for awhile, cause the gameplay is almost 
 endless. As for my closing comments, gets this game and with no regrets, enjoy, for i have and 
 still do! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SIG45
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 9:32 pm PT
Review:  This game is the greatest RPG I have every played (the exception being Star Wars: Knights of the 
 Old Republic) . A smooth and creamy mix of first-person gameplay mechanics, expansive sandbox exploration, 
 and amazing stories that would take far beyond 100 hours to experience make this latest installment 
 in the Elder Scrolls series the best yet.
  
  Of course, the graphics, sound, and brilliantly mapped controls also contribute to the well roundedness 
 of this video game, but the primary value comes from the freedom one has when playing. From the 
 very beginning, with the customization of your title character, everything is completely and uniquely 
 yours. A sense of absolute possession is a great feeling to have after slamming down $60 for this 
 Blu-ray magic.
  
  The only complaint I have is the bugginess of the game at times. The load times may be quick, but 
 I don't want to suddenly have my character fall into oblivion (pun intended) , as has happened more 
 than a few times. Some PC-like patching is in order for this game through the Playstation Network, 
 no doubt.
  
  The greatness of a game is measured by the individual, and no game other than this integrates the 
 player more perfectly or beautifully. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hotsauceyguy
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 30, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  An unbeleivable game. The graphics are unbeleivable. And the sheer size of Tamriel is unfathomable. 
 The story is deep and intriguing. Gameplay is revolutionary for a RPG. It plays almost like a first 
 person shooter. And the level of custimazation for your character is better than Sims. Every aspect 
 of your character is completely custimizable. There is countless weapons and armor. And you never 
 get bored. Even if you hate the main quest there is hours upon hours of side quests. Whether becoming 
 head of the Mgaes Guild or helping a women find her lost hunband. This game is an absolute must 
 buy for any gamer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rothman713
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 30, 2007 7:36 am PT
Review:  Gameplay = 10. What can I say that hasn't already been said? It's awesome. The ability to roam 
 wherever you want. The ability to fight in real time. The ability to actually use some strategy 
 and your environment in a fight. Having an eclectic variety of other options in the game: stealing, 
 sneaking, selling, enchanting, spellcrafting, etc... etc... Quite possibly the most diverse and 
 unique game I've ever played.
  
  Graphics = 9. Despite the less than perfect score that I've awarded this section, the graphics 
 are really quite breathtaking. I think emerging from the sewers and seeing the sunny environment 
 was when I really got the notion that the next generation of gaming had arrived. My only qualms 
 with the graphics are the occasional framerate hitch and the loading times. Obviously, at this 
 stage, we are still unable to do away with those things. But I can imagine the wondrous day when 
 we'll be able to play a game as massive and as immersive as Oblivion without reaching a loading 
 screen every time we hit a door or cave.
  
  Sound = 7. Again, I'm not a big fan of sound. I find it to always be in the back of my mind when 
 I'm playing a game. That being said, I will rate this higher than the usual sound grades I hand 
 out. The sound does contribute a fair bit to gameplay. I'll admit to being spooked out by some 
 of the background noise especially when entering a dark cave or the sinister Dark Brotherhood sanctuary. 
 (The place warms up incredibly when I run it though and after purifying the former members there 
 ;) )
  
  Value = 10. I'm still on my first playthrough and I've already put in more than a 100+ hours. The 
 massive number of sidequests and factions to join all add up to a wonderful (albeit time consuming 
 :D) gaming experience. Not to mention that there are probably hundreds of character builds and 
 after I play this game to completion and take some time off, I'll probably be hankering to create 
 a new character and replay this again. Excellent value.
  
  Tilt = 10. The tilt factor here is its availability on the PS3. Prior to this game, even I would 
 admit the game library was a bit shoddy. And I was getting tired of waiting. For any other PS3 
 fan who felt the same, this game was a godsend. I put the game in the disc slot and my time has 
 been consumed ever since. I'm fairly confident this game could eat up all my spare time from now 
 until Fall 2007 when the 1st slate of big games are about to hit. I also appreciated the hard work 
 done by Bethesda to create a more graphically appealing (and reduced load times to boot!) port 
 for the PS3. There is no question in my mind that console-wise, we have the best version. Something 
 to smile about in the face of constant PS3 criticism. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Magwel
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:53 pm PT
Review:  PS3 version is the best out there right now it takes up a lot but the 60 gig hardrive wil be more 
 than enough to hold it. Obliviom definetly is the best game for the PS3. The graphics are definetly 
 better than XBOX 360 and PC. The blueray really does make a difference and it looks spectacular. 
 I keep playin it and playin it and it dosnt get boring the slightist bit since there in pretty 
 much unlimited things to do. In oblivion i have beaten every sinngle guild and have full deadric 
 armor and weapons. I give Oblvion 2 thumbs way up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 28, 2007 6:07 am PT
Review:  Now being a gamer almost all of my life (started when i was 3) never have i come across a game 
 so emersing so enjoyable and just so damn long. The day the game came out and i got it, it gave 
 me 10 strait hours of gameplay, nonstop, might i add (well maybe a 5 minute break here and there) . 
 it is said that The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an 'endless' game so no matter how many people 
 you do jobs for or even if you finnish the main story there will allways be a person or quest some 
 where waiting to be solved/done not to mention there are dungeons to plunder everywere with there 
 own undead or bandit inhabitants so no matter how far you think you are in the game you will almost 
 ceartainly not be as far as you think you are, sounds strange, but its true its just a tiny example 
 of how massive Oblivion is, annother example is i have been playing for atleast 20 hours and have 
 only done 2 story missions (all the rest i have done are side quests) Correct me if i'm wrong but 
 these days you would struggle to find a game with over 13 hours of actual gameplay and a huge emersive 
 storyline (FF and all obvious ones excluded ofcorse) . Now the game tells you that you can do what 
 you want but how free are you i hear you ask? well you are extreemly free if someone is annoying 
 the hell out of you you can take a sword to their heads regardless of weather they are a main carachter 
 or not or if you want to go around completly ignore the main quest and raid temples or hunt things 
 or even rob people you can. Now if thats not freedom i dont know what is. if you have played GTA 
 SA (dont stop reading cos of the GTA reference) you would have noticed that if you wanted to rob 
 a house only some houses would be open to you. Robing a house in Oblivion is alot of fun and any 
 house or shop is open to a robbery there are no unopenable doors anywear. My only real gripe with 
 Oblivion and it is a very minor gripe is the non player carachters (NPCs) all have the same voices 
 as there are only around 5 voice actors but it isnt that noticable because everyone has a unique 
 look no two NPCs look the same because of the indepth carachter creation system. Now if your like 
 me and you own a PS3 and you want graphics so beutifull it almost brings a tear to your eye, then 
 you need Oblivion, ok picture this you climb a huge mountain all the way to the top to watch a 
 beautifull sunset you get to the top and look out over the land, you see the imperial city with 
 its massive spire, vast streaches of forests, water that sparkles in the distance and white temple 
 ruins litering the landscape and as the sun sets a lush orange colour fills the sky and stains 
 the earth with an orange/red glow this is the end of a day in the life of a person in The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion. If you play one game this year make it Oblivion afterall its GOTY 2006 for 
 a reason. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freelancer1
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 26, 2007 5:58 am PT
Review:  Now this is one game that everyone should play... even those who are not in the RPG fan type class...: D
 
  This game has everything... Idea ... Originality ... Graphics ... Sounds ... Game Play ... and 
 a lot of FUN.
  Ok , so what I like most ... well (THE GAME) I like the story-line... it is very captivating. If 
 u like a good novel , you will like the story this game has. Another thing that Bethesda have exceeded 
 with is the Big World you will have to explore, Fascinating and well designed. This game is a must 
 have, must play, must finish (if u have patience of course) :D.
  End of review. :D oh yeah... by the way If you like this part of The Elder Scrolls... play them all, 
 you will not regret it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Flame_Blade88
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:56 pm PT
Review:  First off, this was the first game in the Elder Scrolls series that I ever played. Second, I really 
 am not a fan of Western RPGs, I only like Japanese made RPGs. But this game just broke everything 
 for being a Western RPG. Oblivion has become one of my top 5 favorite RPGs of all time. I can see 
 why it won the 2006 Game of the Year and Most Addicting awards on the VGAs. A few pros before I 
 begin; Expansive world, full of jaw-dropping visuals, a solid main quest, entertaining characters 
 and a huge array of side quests. Not to mention extremely addicting.
  
  And few cons of this game;
  
  Although almost flawless in everyway, there are only about 5 
 or 6 voice actors for the 1000+ characters in the game. One notably being Patrick Stewart (X-Men, 
 Star Trek, etc) as the voice of Uriel Septim VII, Emperor of Tamriel. And most of the time you 
 could have two different characters standing right next to each other and have the same voice and 
 say the same thing. It does get a little annoying after awhile. Also, the game is very boring if 
 played in the third person view.
  
  Otherwise, the game is excellent, you travel anywhere from cities, to villages, caves, mines, abandoned 
 forts, and ruins. A big area of the main quest are Oblivion Gates, portals to Tamriel's version 
 of Hell. It is home to the powerful Daedra. Most of the main quest consists of you destroying these 
 gates and stop the Daedric invasion from destroying your world.
  
  Graphics - Awesome, good textures, plantlife and vegetation flows in the breeze, really almost 
 makes you feel like you are in the game, expecially when you are playing in first person view (which 
 I hope you are) . Every single weapon is extremely detailed.
  
  Gameplay - Should be played in first person, which it is meant to play in anyways. Difficulty varies, 
 actually there is a difficulty bar in the Options menu, so you can choose how much of a challenge 
 you would want. It pretty much is somewhat of a hack 'n slash system when fighting, but with magic 
 and the need to block sometimes adds depth.
  
  Sound - Very good soundtrack, I was very impressed, the music always fit in with the mood of where 
 you were. I have no complaints with the soundtrack. Battle sounds aren't bad, enemies soung lifelike 
 and realistic. Value - If someone said that Oblivion has no value, they should get shot in the 
 foot. This game gives you so many choices on what you want to do. Do you want to do the main quest 
 first? Or hold off and do other quests or join some factions such as the Fighter's Guild, Mage's 
 Guild, Dark Brotherhood, Arena, and Theives Guild etc.
  
  Overall, so far this is the best game I played for 2007 so far. Everything is perfect for someone 
 who can get into this game, or has the time. As of right now I am over 88 hours into the game. 
 It is also, the best single player experience on the Playstation 3 as of right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: acviper123
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 24, 2007 3:29 pm PT
Review:  I have never liked this genre. I have never liked games like this... But with the reviews this 
 one received, I couldn't pass up the opportunity to play this one. This game is fantastic. So much 
 to do, so many quests, so many options. I have yet to stop playing this game sense I received it 
 some two weeks ago. Just the vastness of the game is unbelievable. Other than the size though, 
 you also have the graphics. The graphics are fantastic, and slightly more polished than the PC 
 and 360 versions of the games. Also, the load times are slightly improved. As I mentioned earlier, 
 the best part of the game is how much there is to do. I am just floored by how big this game is. 
 I have docked 75 hrs. into the game and am nowhere near the end of the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EwellJ
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 24, 2007 8:31 am PT
Review:  Very good game. I am a fan of all the games in the Morrowind series. This game is the first I did 
 not purchase for the pc. There is not much I can add in the way of reviewing this game other than 
 my advice on playing it. If you're interested in efficient leveling, do not select one of the pre-made 
 classes when you're given the option. Instead make your own after reading the character building 
 guide on the hints &amp; cheats page. This will help you in leveling a powerful character and making 
 sure you achieve your full stat bonuses per level. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix8387
Rating: 9.8
Date: Apr 21, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  In what was last years greatest release is this years first must have for PS3. The Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion on PS3 doesn't fail to impress.
  
  -- Gameplay --
  What can you say about the gameplay that hasn't already been said? The game itself is so open-ended 
 that its replayability is almost infinite. Like magic, use magic. Like melee, go melee. Like both, 
 use a combination. Don't want to fight much at all? Then you don't have to! It's your game, play 
 it the way you want to with very little restrictions.
  
  -- Graphics --
  The renderings of trees, the sky, clouds, grass, water, etc. are rendered beautifully. Watch the 
 sunset over the water, climb to the highest peak and look down at the breathtaking view. The only 
 complaint I have about the graphics are when you get close to characters and talk with them. The 
 character skins aren't the most beautiful things you've likely ever seen.
  
  -- Sound --
  Sound isn't a huge thing to me, but having footsteps synced with the movement the magnitude and 
 the surface can really help the experience. Some of the battle sounds came to annoy me over a long 
 period of battling, but what repetitive sounds don't? However, the character voices are very impressive. 
 All dialog is spoken and spoken naturally I might add.
  
  If you're looking for a must have for this year then Oblivion is it. I can't personally attest 
 to how it compares to the 360 version, but the PS3 easily emulates a high end PC running the game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thegoodness4
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 21, 2007 11:35 am PT
Review:  Elder Scrolls has always been a great game for the PC and when it came out for he Xbox i was really 
 excited. Then they came out with Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion and it truly blew my mind away. I never 
 believed it would be as great as it was but unlike the other Elder Scrolls games it was hard to 
 put down the controller. I would have to give Oblivion a 100 out of 10 if it was possible. I recommened 
 this game to any RPG gamer that has time on their hands to sit down for hours to do nothing but 
 play this!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 9.1
Date: May 20, 2007 10:14 am PT
Review:  It's still fantastic. I didn't think it would be, but it is. Despite the fact that I played the 
 PC and 360 versions over a year ago - for nearly 200 hours and counting, incidentally - and despite 
 the fact that I should be completely fed up with this game by now, the PS3 version of The Elder 
 Scrolls IV: Oblivion has sucked me in all over again. But that's okay, because after massive fantasy 
 role-player, pretty much every non-MMO game on the planet seems small, hollow, and a little bit 
 stupid.
  
  Oblivion's major strength is something that should be a total weakness: it's almost completely 
 aimless. Oh, sure: there's a story, for sure. It's about saving the world from invading demons, 
 which keep popping in from another dimension through flaming portals strewn about the countryside. 
 But you don't actually have to follow it unless you want to.
  
  In the meantime, you can go do your own thing: work your way up through the Fighters', Mages', 
 Thieves', or Assassins' Guilds if you like. That last one has many of the game's greatest quests, 
 by the way, filled with dark motives, surprising twists and at least one brilliant, conversation-based 
 puzzle. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Motorsnake12367
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 20, 2007 7:35 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion has everything a gamer can want. It has awsome graphics, gameplay, sound, and everything. 
 It will take a while to beat all the normal quests and side quests. But you will have lots of fun 
 doing them. There is also lots of other things to do like join guilds and level up. Its also fun 
 to break out of jail but thats a whole different story. The graphics are crystal clear and the 
 sound is great. The difficulty is not to hard but not to easy. You can chose a variety of races 
 to choose from and you get to be a vampire. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bobby-jonh
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 17, 2007 12:36 pm PT
Review:  This is the most amazing RPG game ever made. It is so that words can barely describe it. The graphics 
 are really really awesome so is the sound and gameplay. The main quest and stroyline is so immersive 
 wich will have you playing for hours and hours. But if you get bored doing what everyone tells 
 you (very doubtful) there are a ton of things to do: there are guilds to join, infinte caves and 
 ruins to explore and bandits to bust. The battles are not like most RPG's ther not countless battles 
 you have to go throught no each battle is amazing you really feel like you are figthing for you're 
 life.
  
  It is pretty hard ill have to admit i steal like a 2coin worth potato then a guard jumps outta 
 nowhere and his like PAY WITH YOUR BLOOD MUAHAHAHA then like 49 other guards pop outta nowhere 
 so you have like 50 guys everywhere. The only to escape, i think, is to swim in their heavy armour 
 the guards drown or just don't follow but if you are a fugitive you can't do much.
  
  If you want real thrill's oin the brotherhood of the black hand, they are assasins that give missions 
 to fufill. It just gives you a real adrenaline boost once the crime is done and you rush out. For 
 example there is this one where you must sneak in the sewers, pass the guards who are posted at 
 every corner get into jail picklock a prison door and kill a man and then run out. It's really 
 hard since you are in a tight prison with gards everywhere.
  
  Thought to join them you must to some things here they are: (if you want to figure it out yourself 
 then stop reading right now) you must kill a person or two any civilian and then go sleep in a 
 safe place when you wake up a man will be there. He says: you must kill rufio in the ill omen inn 
 once you have done that he reveals how to get to the base and then you get your first contracts.
 
  
  The thieves guild is somewhat dissapointing you have to get arrested after stealing something then 
 get a note and pass a test and then all the guy says is the members of the guild work alone so 
 theres really no point and then he says sell stolen the things you stole to whoever but doesn't 
 tell you were he is.
  
  Gladiator now that is really worth it go to the arena in the imperial city then in the bloodworks 
 you sign up and start learning the ropes starting at pitdog.
  
  If you have alot of time to kill and money go buy this game you will not regret it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: siddogman
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 17, 2007 7:28 am PT
Review:  This game is pretty awesome, it looks great and once you get into the story it can have you going 
 for hours. I however took a little longer to get into this game then most. I had never been into 
 role playing games in the past and I was use to instant action as oppose to riding across hills 
 and valleys to get to the next level. With that said I began to understand the game a little more, 
 I changed from a warrior to a mage and then the game became alot better so anyone out there who 
 is new to these games and are unsure if they want this game, GET IT! It is a difficult start but 
 after the graphics make your jaw drop and the game begins to make little more sense you will have 
 no doubt of the game
  
  Bark Bark
  Siddogman 
::::::

::::::
UserName: knnth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2007 10:29 pm PT
Review:  It somehow took me a few days to realize how much I love Oblivion. I picked it up mostly due to 
 glowing reviews and the absolutely huge online community that has grown up around itit's always 
 a good sign when you look something up and read a tidbit about it which is entirely unfamiliar, 
 like a whole class of items, a specific sub-plot or a technique that you've never seen mentioned.
 
  
  I played it for a few days, trying to decide how I felt about it. It was a slow start, because 
 I didn't fully understand the pointI couldn't see the forest for the trees. As I started collecting 
 and completing quests I realized that the richness that I was seeing was real, not just a lack 
 of understanding about the nature of the game itself, and it just keeps getting deeper. The world 
 is absolutely huge, and there are hundreds of locations to explore.
  
  Now on to specifics. The graphics are pretty fantastic, ranging from looking down at the cobblestone 
 beneath you to looking up at the sun and watching the colors in the surrounding countryside bleach 
 out. On the graphics front, the characters are the real weak part, but only in some ways. It's 
 impressive that the lip-sync is so rich, but the characters themselves are strangely stiff, and 
 stretched in strange ways. I think it's a good example of our having crossed the boundary between 
 obviously-artificial characters and creepy-looking characters that are realistic in some ways and 
 not realistic in others. Also on the graphics front, the frame rate seems to lag a bit, but not 
 nearly as much as some of the other PS3 titles available now. It's not nearly consistent or frequent 
 enough to outweigh all of the pros.
  
  The audio is fantastic, with nice, rich surround fields that are deeply layered with sounds that 
 really come across as having differing distances and intensities. I even seem to hear different 
 species of birds on different days when I pay attention. Sometimes it seems that every item that 
 I'm carrying makes a different noise. The score is fantastic, but the one gripe there is actually 
 a boon to gameplaysometimes you react and prepare for a fight simply because the score switches 
 to combat mode before you can even see your enemy. Seriously, that's it.
  
  After a few weeks of playing almost every day, I'm still intensely interested in the tangled web 
 of plot arcs, obscure references and multi-part quests. As an interactive developer, I can't help 
 thinking about how many people were involved in crafting such a huge adventure, how much organization 
 was involved in managing it, and how much talent was involved in each aspect of its growth.
  
  I'm not one for replaying games. I love the experience of picking something up, learning it 
 and understanding it, and moving on. Oblivion has put a pause to that, and I can see going back 
 to it again and again, even after I've had my fill with the first completion , which at this rate 
 will take me literally hundreds of hours. If you're interested in open-ended gameplay, in a fantasy/RPG 
 context, you simply have no better option. This is by far the best value for a game that I've ever 
 encountered, even at the next-gen price of $60, and I cannot recommend it enough. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Orgando
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 15, 2007 6:34 am PT
Review:  Have you ever wanted to escape your life and just be someone or something else. Well now for the 
 first time in a long time, a game delivers on this level with unprecedented quality in all aspects. 
 Oblivion sets new ground for action-rpg fans and really pushes all consoles to the limit as it 
 is bulging at the seams with; quests, explorable areas, new weapons and tons of little goodies 
 along the way. The graphics in this game are gorgeous and if it is a sunny day and you are on one 
 of the tallest mountains, you can see for miles and miles (it is a huge game) . I would have scored 
 it a ten in graphics but because of some frame-rate hitches and some annoying graphical bugs I 
 gave it a nine. The sound in this game will blow your mind, especially the music. The music says 
 one thing, epic! It makes you feel like your taking part in some huge Peter Jackson epic movie 
 scene. Not to mention the incredible voice work. Every single snippet of dialog is voiced and not 
 only that but some incredible voice actors were involved to (Patrick Stewart anyone?) . The game-play 
 is a nice mix of first-person combat and magic skills and RPG elements, all of which work flawlessly 
 with one another. Anyway you slice it, the final result is that you must buy Oblivion. PC, PS3 
 or Xbox 360 you have to own this game!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RobertST
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 14, 2007 1:29 pm PT
Review:  So we should all be fairly familiar with Oblivion by now as its been on the 360 and PC for over 
 a year, and yet this version is what the first versions SHOULD have been like.
  
  the story goes, that you are a prisoner of the empire when all of a sudden the emperors sons have 
 been killed and hes next. Fate leads him to your prison cell were you follow him through a secret 
 passage until he dies. His last wish is for you to find his illegitimate son.
  
  Its all up to you now. Go straight for the story or explore to your hearts content.
  
  Graphics: 
 The visuals in this version are top notch. They are not just a tad better, they are noticeably 
 better. The textures are much thicker and sharper, and the lighting is just superb. The 360 version 
 was too dark on default settings were this version is perfect
  
  For those who have played Oblivion before the Great forest is a site to behold. The Great Forrest 
 looks just as good and realistic as ever. The only odd thing about the PS3 version is the color. 
 It would seem that the color saturation is greater on the 360 than the PS3. The PS3 doesn't look 
 washed out and actually a lot of people have complained about the 360s colors being over saturated, 
 but I have to say that I like the 360s colors a bit better. And color wise the great forest and 
 vegetation look a lot greener and fresher on the 360.
  
  The shadows cast better, and the water seems to have better reflections than the 360 version as 
 well as weather affects are better PS3 wise too.. Draw distance is a bit farther. Overall everything 
 just has a cleaner, thicker look and feel to it than on the 360. The only version graphically better 
 would be the PC but your PC must be uber.... dual or quad SLI gpu's to get mid/high to full potential 
 out of this system hog.
  
  Note: I tested Component and HDMI and the PS3 still beats the 360 Graphically hands down whether 
 its component or HDMI.
  
  Gameplay. It seems the controls shine on the consoles for this game, and for me the PS3 analog 
 sticks actually feel better than the 360's and I usually prefer the 360 pad, go figure. No matter 
 what any fan boys says the frames per second are not better but more stable. Its still a 30 FPS 
 game, but it actually stays there more on the PS3 and doesn't dip so often like it does on the 
 360. On the 360 when out in the wilderness you can expect frame stuttering every 20-30 seconds, 
 maybe even more depending on how hot the 360 is, while on the PS3 the only times I notice slowdown 
 are during auto saves and the occasional dip when exploring the Great Forrest. Still they are not 
 half as bad as the 360 or low to mid-end PC.
  
  Most bugs and glitches were fixed with patches on the 360, but as some of us 360 owners know Oblivions 
 biggest flaw is random freezing especially after long hours of play, I tested the PS3 version and 
 played 24 hours straight, even when the PS3 was at its hottest there was never a freeze, flashing 
 polygon, glitch, or crash of any kind. To further my point the 360 patch came pout today to improve 
 loading times etc. 5 minutes in it froze, and the new patch was suppose to fix these things, go 
 figure.
  
  The combat, spells, story, and everything else gameplay wise is identical to the other version, 
 exception being that the PS3 owners get the Knight of the Nine faction from the start and don't 
 have to download it or pay for it separately and that is always a plus. 10 more hours of gameplay 
 never hurt anyone.
  
  Sound: Sound is better on the PS3 version as well. Its not as muffled and the clashing of swords 
 and shields, as well as the sizzling of magic all sound crisper especially when using HDMI. Perfection.
 
  
  Value: If you own the a 360 and PS3 Id get the PS3 version, if you own the 360 version sell it, 
 and get the PS3 version, of course unless you have or are planning on dumping money on the DL content 
 for the 360.
  
  This game is just huge and Knights of the nine being free is a huge plus. AND DON'T COUNT OUT DL 
 CONTENT FOR THE PS3 EITHER!
  
  Bethesda already said once they learn more about the PSN and the PS3 version has a big fan base 
 they will release all of the DL content. Memory bottlenecks are pure rumor and Bethesda dispelled 
 those already. They also stated other than Knights of the Nine, the rest of the content wouldn't 
 make sense to have from the begging which it wouldn't it doesn't fit with a new game so well. Just 
 wanted to clear that up for every one.
  
  Back to value, this game has well into 200 hours or more of game play. What more do we want? JRPG 
 fans beware though, just because you like RPGs or Final Fantasy doesn't mean you will like this 
 game. Its not turned base or Asian based in any way. So JRPG fans I suggest a rent other wise this 
 is a must have game for people looking to live in another world and do almost what ever they want. 
 Its simply HUGE and improves greatly on an already proven game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucio1007
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 13, 2007 1:50 pm PT
Review:  i bought oblivion a week ago ( first game of elder scrolls series ive bought ) i think its worth 
 the money but u need lots of time to play it. its okay. but not that great. if you are going to 
 buy a play station 3 game this one the best till now. i have played it for a while and theres still 
 lots of things you can do in the game although it might seem eternal at some times . theres lots 
 of great content in this game and when you play this game it seems time flys .
  
  pros- lots of things to do in game. great graphics. i think its the best game for ps3 that out 
 till now.
  cons- you need lots of time and some time it becomes exhausting to play because it becomes at some 
 points repetitive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 12, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  To begin things off with ES Oblivion you get to create your own character from scratch . The story 
 is about this demonic realm called oblivion trying to invade this beautiful land and of course 
 its up to you to stop it. Basic hero story line The game witoll have you journing all around the 
 lands to different villages and meeting tons of characters, some nice and some not so nice. GOOD 
 THINGS: the game has great graphics the landscapes are great and so are the monsters. The liting 
 in the game is good also. The game has simple controls once you get use to them, I didnt find a 
 problem with them at all. the game is quite fun and addictive. The game play itself is a lot of 
 running around completeing quest, basic RPG stuff. Mostly the traveling becomes a big part of the 
 game. There are tons of side quest that you can do once you get finished with the main story line. 
 So the replay value is high. BAD THINGS: the game slows down ever once in a while during combat, 
 not a big deal , but still worth mentioning after spending $700 on a system and $60 more on a game. 
 It would have been good if they would have threw in a few twist and turn into your travels. OVERALL: 
 It all comes down to if you enjoy playing RPG's, if so then this is a good game. not great, but 
 good. You do have replay value because of the side quest so that's a plus. HINT&gt; watch what 
 you eat, or youll turn into a vampireish monster and totally ruin the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacintos09
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 11, 2007 10:37 am PT
Review:  I've never really played RPGs. I never had anything against them, but none of the games really 
 caught my eye. I've always liked games that had stories intertwined, but I've never gone for a 
 full-on RPG. Anyways, last year I happened to be watching G4 and saw a spot about Elder Scrolls 
 IV: Oblivion. When I saw how amazingly expansive it was, I was quite intrigued. Alas, I only had 
 a PS2 then so I couldn't play.
  
  When I heard it was coming out for PS3, I got excited again. I had just gotten a PS3 and i was 
 definitely in need of another game. This game did not disappoint. It's overwhelming in a good way. 
 You can go anywhere, do anything, talk to anybody, for as long as you want. The game really doesn't 
 have to end. If you need a game that will give you hours upon hours of gameplay, this is def. the 
 one for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoopeymaster
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 11, 2007 7:45 am PT
Review:  ok this game is sooooooooooooooooooooooooo amzing and addicting.
  All the things that needed fix are the sometimes VERY VERY annoying and stupid AI. Like u have 
 3 guys to clear out this cave of goblins, they come half way and they STOP!!! WTF!!!. This is a 
 three persons job not one, so u had to kill all those goblins myself.......
  
  the grphics are horribly AMAZING, they are soooo good. The game game wiht first-person is sooooo 
 fun, but the third-erson SUCKES, that needs fixing!
  
  for a game that says u can do A LOT, it doesnt even explain the things u can do!!!! WTF???? So 
 basically u cant do a lot, or ur jsut never ganna find out unless u pay extra 15 bucks for the 
 guide!!! but the guide doesnt even help that much, but i dont know i dont have it, thats jsut what 
 i heard. Ok now this game has to be the greatest game ever, im jsut not talking abut the good things 
 about it. All they needed to do is fix up the AI, explain things better, and fic some minor bugs 
 and there u would have it, the BEST GAME EVER!!!!!! but to ba dits not! Also, the game si VERY 
 HARD sometimes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: taladrox
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:44 pm PT
Review:  I played the xbox 360 game and i was amazed but now i own a ps3 and i have been blown away by this 
 perfect game.
  
  You'll enjoy every second of the game even if you played at the xbox 360 before.
  
  I was a 
 little concern aboot the poor ps3 games on the market, but now with oblivion out there everything 
 is under control for all the people who spent a great amount of money on PS3 and expected the best.
 
  
  One thing that would make the game greater is the online capability. Can you imagine oblivion online? 
 what a great world to explore with your friends.
  
  I hope BETHESDA can make something about it and continues to surprise us with this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NacresErut
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 10, 2007 5:01 pm PT
Review:  Graphics wise, it is one of the best games utilizing lighting effects and water effects to the 
 max, the first person mode makes you jump right in there but the game does have some flaws. First 
 of all my friend just joined the fighters guild and went to the arena and got the best armor at 
 level1... this is due to the fact that enemies are based on your level, also they scatter many 
 forts around the world but after you go into a couple of them you realize they are all very similiar, 
 just things to take up time and hack n slash. If you have alot of time on your hands get this, 
 but for some reason this reminds me of a more advanced WoW except singleplyer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EtherTwilight
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2007 1:51 pm PT
Review:  To even try and encapsulate everything about Oblivion in a consolidated review is almost as dauntingly 
 epic as the source material itself. In terms of sheer replayability, flexibility, fun, ingenuity, 
 creativity, and just downright quality is concerned, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is certainly 
 one of the best games out there.
  
  Oblivion begins with your nameless character in a jail cell, with the Emperor making a hasty escape 
 with his Blades - the Emperor's body guard - through a secret tunnel that just happens to be inside 
 your cell. The guards bid you not to follow, but really, who are they kidding? After choosing your 
 character's race from the ten available races, choosing your gender, designing your character's 
 face with a fairly robust and interesting face development kit, and finally deciding on a name 
 for your hapless adventurer to be, it's off into the tunnels.
  
  Right from the get go, Oblivion offers you a sizable chunk of what you'll be doing and you'll go 
 about doing it. The opening portion of the game as you navigate through the tunnels and experience 
 the beginnings of the game's story keeps tracks of actions that you undertake, and offers up a 
 variety of items to use at your disposal. You'll get a chance to use blade or blunt weapons, to 
 rely on bow and arrow, or merely sit back and fling fire spells at your opponents. You can suit 
 up with light armor and sneak up to unsuspecting foes, or don a suit of heavy armor and rush in 
 with a blood vengeance. You'll get a chance to try your hand at making some potions, to open chests 
 by picking the locks or relying on spells. In terms of the obligatory training session in gaming, 
 Oblivion succeeds not only because of how varied the game is right from the start, but in that 
 it offers up to you a play style based on your actions taken thus far.
  
  At a point near the beginning, you'll also choose an astrological sign with its own benefits or 
 caveats to your stats or abilities, and later be asked if you are a certain class, which again, 
 is determined by how you've played so far. While you certainly don't have to pick that class, and 
 can instead opt to select from one of the twenty-one available classes yourself. And if none of 
 those still looks good to you, then you'll be able to select a class of your own, complete with 
 naming your class, selecting from either combat, stealth, or magic specialization, which will help 
 level up skills associated with those types. You will also need to select the seven major skills 
 in your class, as these will be what you'll be using to level up your character.
  
  Certainly by that point, you'll have gained levels in an assortment of the game's twenty-one different 
 skills, such as Athletics, Acrobatics, Blade, or Restoration. Each one of the specializations - 
 Combat, Magic, and Stealth - has seven skills associated with it; meaning you can either become 
 a highly focused devotee to one particular skill set, or more likely, a hybrid of any of the three 
 sets of skills available. Since leveling up in Oblivion is done in a more organic way, in that 
 you must increase your seven major skills in order to move towards a new experience level, not 
 all the emphasis is on combat. If your character is a Bard, with Mercantile as a major skill, bartering 
 items and haggling prices will help you to your upcoming level. If you're a Monk with Athletics 
 as a major skill, then merely walking around and swimming through the world will suffice. If you're 
 an Assassin, making potions will help to further increase your level.
  
  Skills also have an associated attribute, and you'll choose two as your character's focus from 
 strength, endurance, personality, intelligence, speed, willpower, and luck - which has at least 
 a marginal effect on most everything in the game, but governs no skills. As opposed to choosing 
 your focus in skill sets, choosing a stat holds no bearing on the rate of skill increase, but rather 
 merely boost that stat.
  
  This creates a customizable and rich way that you'll level your character. Most players are likely 
 to find themselves with skills from the three sets, although it's just as acceptable to choose 
 or make a class which specializes in just one of the three skill sets. That's what the truly great 
 thing about Oblivion is, however - There's no real right or wrong way to go about your adventure.
 
  
  Upon completion of the first area, you'll be flung into Cyrodiil, in the world of Tamriel. The 
 game gives you a prompt from the developers that you can choose to continue the main quest right 
 from the get go, or you can merely go about in your own adventures. Either way, there's plenty 
 to be offered, and you'll most likely find yourself doing a lot of side tracking.
  
  The first thing that strikes you about the world of Oblivion as you step outside of the dank cave 
 is how beautiful the in game world is. The draw distance is fairly phenomenal, and although there 
 are some minor issues with loading textures at certain distances, it's excusable for how lavish 
 the environments are. The world truly feels organic, and the amount of peculiar random encounters 
 has been reduced and tweaked from previous installments to feel much more real. You can wander 
 around picking plants, which you can eat for their effects, or use as alchemical ingredients for 
 making potions. You'll find wildlife, such as bears and wolves which will attack you; deer that 
 will run away upon detecting your presence; bandits, vampires, or other devilish denizens who have 
 claimed certain camps or far away caves as their own.
  
  And you're certain to come across many of these far away locales inhabited by less than amicable 
 residents. Even dungeon crawling in random and seemingly pointless places can be a fun and exciting 
 venture. Though you may not necessarily revamp all of your gear, occasionally gaining a new piece 
 of equipment, a useful scroll, a new alchemical tool, or an item for a new quest is enough reason 
 to draw you away from your current goal and into the fallen fortress or cavern you just stumbled 
 across.
  
  Aside from the excitement of looting these places, there's also some visceral combat to be offered. 
 Melee combat is much more engaging than in previous installments, requiring that you manually block 
 attacks, follow up with attacks of your own, which the defending creature can in turn block or 
 counterattack. Moving away from the previous hack and slash makes for a much more robust combat 
 system, and makes differing tactics much more beneficial, especially considering that the game's 
 default difficulty makes running blindly into combat and whacking away mindlessly a surefire way 
 to get yourself killed.
  
  You can stand from afar, lobbing spells or loosing arrows at your foes until they fall. Conversely, 
 you can run in boldly with a two-handed battle-axe and a warrior's determination. You can poison 
 your short sword, sneak up on an unsuspecting foe, and deal increased damage and poison them at 
 the same time, swaying the tide of battle immediately more in your favor. No matter your choice, 
 combat stays exciting throughout the course of the game, and if you find yourself either having 
 too much difficulty with the game's baddies, or conversely, not enough, then you merely increase 
 or decrease the game's difficulty slider at any point in the game to make adjustments accordingly.
 
  
  Combat holds up fairly well as far as game play is concerned, and while the game typically throws 
 very small numbers of enemies at you at once, occasionally you'll have to fight five or more enemies. 
 Not only can this make a fight fairly difficult, but with that much happening on the screen at 
 once, the frame rate can drop a little bit. Despite the fact that it's a mild irritation, it's 
 not too terribly often, although there are still occasional frame rate issues while even not in 
 the heat of battle.
  
  Aside from merely using the best equipment readily available to your character, Oblivion implements 
 skill bonuses at every twenty-five levels in a skill, up to level one hundred. You can gain new 
 power attacks for your melee weapons, the ability to paralyze opponents with your arrows, be able 
 to dodge away from attacks, have access to higher level tiers of spells, and even increased effectiveness 
 and decreased weight of armor. Each of the twenty-one skills has a special bonus for achieving 
 these levels of Apprentice, Journeyman, Expert, and Master proficiency, with varying new effects 
 and bonuses to your character.
  
  While not spelunking in caverns, one can also join a number of the guilds available. There's a 
 Fighter's Guild, a Thieves' Guild, a Mage's Guild, and a guild of assassins known as the Dark Brotherhood. 
 You can also enlist as a combatant in the Arena and work your way through the ranks - or die trying. 
 The Playstation 3 version also comes with the Knights of the Nine quest, a lengthy addition to 
 an already incredibly lengthy adventure. There are also a few other factions that you can join, 
 although these offer no actual stories or further quests. Furthermore, you do not have to be pigeonholed 
 in any one single faction. It's just as acceptable to climb to the top of every faction, and each 
 comes with its own benefits and rewards.
  
  Outside of factions and the main quests, there are nigh two hundred other quests ready for completion. 
 Quests are fairly varied, and while some are menial tasks of helping someone find an item, others 
 are more clever or exciting than mere fetch quests. You could find yourself in an alternate universe 
 within a painting. You'll get to track people, break into homes and steal items, hunt down and 
 kill evil-doers, retrieve important relics from bandits, and a number of other quests. Though many 
 begin by actively talking to the NPCs strewn throughout the world, many characters may come to 
 you for help. These peoples can vary between helpless victims just hoping someone will listen, 
 or seemingly crazy citizens.
  
  Although quests are fairly varied, there are quite a number of very similar quests. That's not 
 surprising considering that there are almost two hundred quests in total, and while some are down 
 right brilliant in what you must do to complete the quest, many are typical affairs that may or 
 may not hold your interest for an extended period of time. Of course, merely having a quest activated 
 is by no means a contract to complete the quest, and you can simply ignore it.
  
  To further improve the game's immersion, every single NPC in the game is voice acted. Most of the 
 voice acting is relatively strong, although there are a few poorly delivered lines in the game. 
 This is hardly a major factor, as voice acting in videogames isn't typically known for its Oscar 
 worthy level of quality, but for the most part it's good enough to remain engaging. In certain 
 cases of strong voice acting and character, the NPCs can be fantastic to listen to, whether they're 
 talking down to you or pleading for your help. Unfortunately, not every single line in the game 
 is character specific, and instead there are some stock lines delivered in one set voice which 
 can be a little off putting. Though it doesn't actually detract from game play, it's noticeable 
 and breaks a little bit of Oblivion's magic.
  
  NPCs will also have open discourse with one another as you walk around towns. This is a very novel 
 feature, and in certain cases will open new topics to discuss with the townsfolk, which can lead 
 to new quests. It's a very neat idea, and works well in Oblivion. Not only that, but it helps the 
 game world by being able to see townsfolk interacting with one another and discussing the current 
 goings on of the world or current area. You'll see them go open up their shops in the morning, 
 and walk home to go to bed at night, or go about any of their other tasks.
  
  The game's music, although pleasing and typically fairly ambient in nature, isn't too terribly 
 enthralling. There aren't really any major or epic pieces, although the music does create a nice 
 backdrop to the world.
  
  While exploring that world, you'll be able to utilize the game's quick travel feature, which allows 
 you to merely select a location while outside, and find yourself instantly there, assuming it's 
 a location you've already found, that is. It's a handy feature, and helps to alleviate some of 
 the frustration that was present in Morrowind, what with having to get a teleport at the mage's 
 guild, then take a Strider two towns over, and hop on a boat for a little bit in order to arrive 
 at your final destination.
  
  Another helpful new addition to travel is the ability to buy horses in Oblivion. There are varying 
 kinds of horses that are available, with differing prices, although really it doesn't help much 
 to the game play. Controlling the horses is rather clunky, and while traveling by horse is faster 
 than traveling by foot, it's hard to justify using the horse outside of going to a location that 
 you can't fast travel to yet. Thankfully, your horse will be with where you go at the town's stables, 
 if applicable, so you don't have to try and keep track of wherever you left your horse last.
  
  You'll also be able to purchase various houses in differing cities, each with a price point 
 and level of quality to it, quality namely being how nice it looks on the inside, and how large 
 it is. After purchasing a house, you'll also be able to pick up different furnishings for it, such 
 as more aesthetic features such as wall hangings or furniture, to more practical things like places 
 to store the droves of items you'll want to keep handy. No matter whether you actually purchase 
 these furnishings or not, your home always has a bed, giving you a place to rest and, more importantly, 
 level up, as you can no longer merely rest at will in the wilds or caves. You can rest in these 
 locations if you find a camp or area in the woods or a fallen fort with a bed within, but there 
 are many locations where beds are simply unavailable, such as in the plane of Oblivion.
  
  This helps to make your home actually feel like your home. It will give you a little customization, 
 although not much, but more importantly becomes your personal warehouse and level up spot. Since 
 storage furnishings are more than just one thing in which to place items, you'll even be able to 
 keep your valuables categorized in separate vessels, if you so wish. You can even just leave items 
 haphazardly strewn about your house, and they will stay there - as will pretty much everything 
 else just dropped out in the world of Oblivion. Items placed in barrels or crates, however, will 
 disappear eventually, as the contents of these are often renewed throughout the game.
  
  Performance wise, load times are kept fairly minimal, thanks in part to Oblivion doing a nigh five 
 gigabyte system install on your Playstation 3 hard drive. The game will almost seamlessly load 
 outdoor areas as you traverse them, and loading times between entering new zones are fairly brief, 
 and don't detract much from the game play experience.
  
  Oblivion does have a few other performance issues, namely that the game will occasionally freeze, 
 or you may find yourself with a strange bug or clipping issue. My game only froze twice in the 
 hundred hours I've put into it so far, and holding down the system's power button for five seconds 
 restarted the system without a problem, so I didn't have to do a hard shutdown. This can be inconvenient 
 and aggravating, particularly if you haven't saved your game in a while, but only twice in a hundred 
 hours isn't too big of a problem, but it does warrant being mentioned. Items may at times fall 
 through the walls or floor, but these is extremely infrequent, and I have only experienced this 
 twice, with weapons dropped by enemies I had just killed, and didn't plan on picking up anyway.
 
  
  All in all, The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is a fantastic adventure that's certain to see at least 
 a hundred hours worth of play at least one time through. There's also the option of simply restarting 
 the game from scratch to adopt a new play style, which is still equally engaging, and offers a 
 new set of skills and items to shoot for, not to mention possibly changing the face of battle for 
 you. With its numerous quests to complete, factions to climb to the top of, ruins to best and a 
 lengthy main adventure to complete, Oblivion definitely brings more than its fair share to the 
 table, and is certain to be the oblivion of your free time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rd1858
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 8, 2007 10:37 pm PT
Review:  This is the first game I have actually reviewed although I have rated about 15 other games. I've 
 played the game for about 10-12 hours so far and it is incredible. There is just so much stuff 
 to do it's ridiculous. I know a lot of other people have reviewed this game so I'm not going to 
 go in depth, but this is a must buy for any PS3 owner who doesn't have it on XBOX or PC. The graphics 
 are great and the battle system is amazing. There is just too much stuff to talk about this game 
 in good ways but buy it if you don't have it... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stfolife
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 21, 2007 7:28 pm PT
Review:  oblivion is an amazing game and the landscapes are amazing but it isnt flawless there are allot 
 of glitches and for a game this big there should be a little more to do but of course it is great 
 that the ps3 version includes the knights of nine content so you wont have to pay extra. The difficulty 
 of the game would be hard because unless you have some sort of an enchanted weapon you will find 
 yourself fighting the same person for around 3-4 minutes but overall oblivion is probably one of 
 the best games I have ever played and i highly recommend it for everyone even if you do not like 
 RPG'S 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tigerfan1993
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 4:18 pm PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls is one of the most popular and influential RPG series of all time. In my opinion, 
 Oblivion is one of the top 5 Rpg games of all time, hell, top 5 game OF ALL TIME. But, i had this 
 game of PC before i had it for PS3, and for some reason, it seemed more addicting and fun on the 
 PC. Maybe it is because when i had it for PC, it was all new to me. I purchased the PS3 version 
 the day it came out. While the PS3 version had much lower lag times and more crisp and sharp graphics 
 than i had experienced on the PC, it still didnt feel completly right to me. Now no one else may 
 agree with me on this, and this may start some arguements, but it is just how i feel. This game 
 can be very easy or very hard, depending on which path you take (or which difficulty level you 
 put it on) . The gamepley is still very fun and open, but i did experience a few lag moments when 
 doing the Siege on Kvatch. The graphics are...... oblivion. I did however, find a few sound glitches 
 within the game, for instance, i attack a guard in the Imperial City, i resist arrest, and all 
 hell breaks loose. But when about 5 citizens are attacking me at once, the sound goes from Pay 
 with your blood to  . But this only happened once. All-in-all, 
 this is a must own game for a PS3 owner WHO HAS NEVER PLAYED OBLIVION BEFORE. If you have played 
 oblivion before, i would just miss on this, maybe rent it if you want to experience the Knights 
 of the Nine content, which is to me the most fun quest in the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingX
Rating: 9.2
Date: Apr 7, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  When Oblivion arrived I had a hard time to get out of my living room to take a look at the real 
 life.
  
  The world in Oblivion is nothing more than awsome! The open lanscapes, the cold moisty dungeons... 
 it has everything a good RPG should have!
  On top of that it has a cool story and tons, I reapeat, tons of side quets to have the most hardcore 
 RPG player satisfied for weeks. Nearly anyone you speak with in this game has something that needs 
 your attention (if you want) and whats even more fun that is many quests has more than one way 
 of solving them.
  
  Graphics wise it looks stunning, you can see almost as long as your own eyes let you and its just 
 filled with nice colours and textures, the sound is another thing that is really nice and all this 
 is having beaautiful orchestral music playing in the background.
  
  Is there anything bad about this game? well not really.. but it has a few minor bugs here and there, 
 but I guess in a game that is this massive its impossible to make it run 100%. Sometimes it can 
 drop in framrates but its really minor and should not bother you at all and it tend to lack a litte 
 bit on the batle area.. its more or less just to push the attack button to attack and the block 
 button to block.. though you can learn a few new moves during the game. But don't let that scare 
 you away, despite that this game needs your attention! This is surly the strongest release on the 
 ps3 so far and even people that normally don't even like RPGs should give this one a look. Its 
 that massive and fun. The world in Oblivion is alot more fun to run around in than our world, I 
 can say that much! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pepto13
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:50 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is probably the best RPG someone will ever play! I have beat the PC version and now im 
 going at it again on my ps3.
  Pros: THe game takes place in a vast country called Tamriel, equiped with wolves, deer, bears, 
 cougars, goblins, rats, ecct... There are somany people and quests that it would take months of 
 nonstop playing to complete them all. The ps3 version not only looks better than the 360, it also 
 is less laggy. Berthsedia was right to bring oblivion to the Ps3.
  
  Cons: lags a little sometimes. there is only like 6 different voices in the whole game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yuinode
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2007 12:29 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is next-gen period! The game has the most terrific graphics I have ever seen. For instance 
 I could hike to the peak of the mountains and look at the country below for hours on end. Its so 
 gorgeous in fact sometimes while playing I find my eyes wandering from my sword to the brilliant 
 sunset. The gameplay is solid. Come on people around 300 HOURS OF GAMEPLAY! What more could you 
 want? Not to mention that you can basically do whatever you want such as, kill anyone (not important 
 to the story) , steal anything, hunt, harvest plants, cast magics, purchase a home, etc. The sound 
 is just brilliant. The music is a perfect fit with soothing songs as you travel the vast lands 
 and also tense music as you engage in battle! The sound is great as well if you are near someone 
 screaming it will be louder the closer you are. Not to mention that people will have their own 
 conversations on the street!!! The only problem I will ever accuse this game of is the fact of 
 the dungeons being so big you easily get lost in them, and that this game will cut into your social 
 life horribly... really you will not stop playing this game.... At the end of the day this is a must 
 have game period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilikegodalot
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 7, 2007 3:34 am PT
Review:  Oblivion, another one for the PS3 games collection...
  I rented this game twice to make sure it wouldn't be one of those games that got boring, but hell, 
 with all the options and different things you can do in this game I've gone through 80+ hours and 
 have no intentions of slowing down... so I bought it :D
  
  Anyways, Oblivion has great graphics, relatively quick loading times, good game-play (that yes, 
 can get boring at the worst and I mean worst of times.) , and a wonderful fighting system.
  
  Oblivion is one of those games that just clicks with me, its an RPG where I actually feel like 
 I am the character I am playing, not fully based on leveling on super todd swimmers for hours on 
 end. You level when you want to, you eat, make potions, sleep, fight, live the life you want to 
 live and how you want to live it, being a thief, murderer, warrior... ANYTHING.
  
  If you want a real RPG then this is the game for you, there are many things you can do and there 
 is no end to the options you have as in... should I kill this guy? or save his life? Oh I could 
 run away too! Its just a game that fulfills my every desire (well, not every, you know what I mean) 
 and is not far from being one of the greatest games I have every played to date.
  
  -Local Rambler -FrEaK 
::::::

::::::
UserName: elguino3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:09 pm PT
Review:  How is it possible for the XBox version of this game could be any better than the Ps3 version if 
 they just took the xbox one then made it better its not like they could make it like a worse game 
 thats impossible......... but this game whether on ps3 xbox or pc it still makes you feel like you 
 are an assassin or something and the dark brotherhood is a really fun part of the game. There are 
 a lot of different quests that you can do some of them are easy and take like 5 min. but some actually 
 require you to think. The diffuculty is just right so you only have to try things once or twice. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NY_Yankees_Fan
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 3, 2007 7:48 pm PT
Review:  Let me start off by saying this, Oblivion is the first game that gives you total freedom!. The game 
 is very, very big, there are many things to do and accomplish in Oblivion, you can be anybody you 
 want to be and do what ever you choose to do. The graphics are great, the gameplay is fantastic, although 
 it could have been much better if you can aim your weapons (swords, bows) because the game does get 
 a bit frustrating when you are trying to kill an enemy or enemies and they just keep moving around 
 like crazy, another thing that could have been done better are the maps, there are many places were 
 you can get lost and confused totally, but other than that everything is or is nearly perfect!. So 
 in conclusion Obivion for the Playstation 3 is a game every Playstation 3 owner NEEDS TO PLAY!, it 
 is very fun and addicting but be prepared!, you can totally have a life one day and the next day 
 you can totally have NO LIFE AT ALL!, considering Oblivion has +200 hours of gameplay and don't 
 forget about the additional Knights Of The Nine content which is a great addition as well!. One 
 of the negatives about this version of Oblivion is that it doesn't offer as much content as the 
 PC and Xbox 360 versions do, that's why it got a lower score than the Xbox 360 version but got a 
 higher score than the PC version for having better graphics than both the PC and Xbox 360 version, but 
 knowing Sony, they will later add more additional Oblivion content to the PSN network! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Swift18
Rating: 9.7
Date: Apr 3, 2007 10:31 am PT
Review:  This game is great as for the choppy frame rates that people are complaining about well it appears 
 that not every one has this problem it may be a issue with the first line of ps3s since not every 
 one has this problem. Or it could be as simple as it wasn't ported as nicely as it should have. 
 So that could be fixed with a patch. But it looks amazing it's got a great feel i just which they 
 could have used tilt in it which could be a hint to them not taking as much time as they should 
 have. But all in all it's a great game and as far as any problems if their are enough complaints 
 I'm sure they will make a patch so is a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LouieV13
Rating: 8.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 12:43 am PT
Review:  I have played all of the ES4 versions and I have to say (no mods for PC count) that the PS3 is 
 better than the 360 and PC in ways but not in all. The PS3 Supposadly looks better that the 360 
 but I do not agree they look the same its just the PS3 ver douse not run as well. At times on the 
 PS3 the games framerate can just start dropping to new console lows exspecially in the Oblivion 
 Realms. The PC overall is just better if your PC can handle it but if not go with the 360... but 
 if you dont have a PC/360 then this game is amazing! PS3 pros / cons +Nights of the Nine!
  +All of the 360 DL content!
  +Good graphics!
  -Framerate bombs at times
  -No shivering isle?! 
 wtf!
  
  In short If you have the PC/360 get that if not then get the PS3 version its still really good!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: docnovak
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 7:02 pm PT
Review:  Ok, so the story isn't all that new. Pretty standard RPG story line of young adventurer must stop 
 the evil demons from taking over the otherwise peaceful country side. So what makes this the best 
 RPG ever? Well, besides the souped up graphics and physics that make it the most real world anyone 
 has ever played in, the story is what really steals the show.
  
  + Graphics: ok, the graphics on the PC and XBox look great, and you have the same graphics for 
 a port, right? Not exactly. While the close up detail is the same as on other system, the farther 
 away detail was brought into greater detail for the PS3. When I first read this back about two 
 months ago, I thought big whoop then I saw it with my own eyes. I hooked up the Xbox 360 and PS3 
 to the same TV and got to as close to the same spot in the game as possible. Then I flipped back 
 and forth from the two inputs and looked for myself. You could definitely see a difference. Is 
 it worth it to buy the game again if you already own it on PC or Xbox? No, I really didn't think 
 so. The graphics in the game on all systems are amazing compared to last gen games though, and 
 make the whole game play experience seem that much more real.
  
  + Controls: Trying to play an RPG where you might be juggling a dozen or more spells and weapons 
 has never been easy on a game system with limited buttons. Bethesda managed to do an excellent 
 job of it on Oblivion though. The quick slot buttons give you the ability to flip back and forth 
 between 8 pre-assigned items while in the middle of combat fairly easily. This is especially important 
 when facing multiple combatants in real time and having to jump from magic, to range weapons, to 
 melee weapons, to health fixes, and back again.
  
  + Movement: Moving throughout the world in Oblivion is made easy by the choice of fast travel (jumping 
 from one known location to another without any knowledge of what you passed along the way) and 
 actually moving on your own. While running across the world you notice only slight lags as new 
 areas are loaded. When entering a doorway into a new area the load times are not at all excessive. 
 Moving through the menu screens is also easy and after only a few minutes with them they seam completely 
 natural.
  
  + Story: I am not going to go into great detail about the story. I just want to say how great I 
 thought the diversity of the different missions was. The fact that you can choose what order you 
 tackle different missions in and that you can change your mind and move onto a different mission 
 in the middle of a mission is great. I have always hated being told what to do and when. In Oblivion 
 if you want to spend a weeks worth of game time running around picking flowers, no one cares. There 
 is a mission for everyone. You arent restricted from any of the missions either, a warrior can 
 complete the mages guild mission and even pick up some extra skills along the way.
  
  + Overall: If you are an RPG fan and dont have this one on any other system, get it. If you are 
 a huge RPG fan and have this one on another system, get it again. If you arent an RPG fan, get 
 it anyway. This game will make you enjoy the RPG. I am usually a FPS player, but had to put down 
 R: FOM and my other games to play this one, and now I am going back to play more of the side quests. 
 Definitely worth the money to play. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RASECUL
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 8:55 am PT
Review:  Everything that is said in a positive an constructive way about Elder Scroll IV: Oblivion is true. 
 The only negatives are the frame-rate, but it's very occasional and there are some pop-ups here 
 and there, which sounds annoying or rather disappointing since we would not expect this from a 
 nex-gen masterpiece but then again, the environment is sooo detailed and unspeakably gorgeous that 
 it's forgivable... This is one MASSIVE game, it will take you everywhere you don't expect to go. 
 There are so many weapons, spells, classes that it is overwhelming. There are countless ways to 
 play through this game, I haven't played so much yet, but I had to give up on so many things already 
 that I know I'm gonna have to play it again. You actually have to make decisions that truly affects 
 the gameplay. I cannot say why they gave it a lower rating for it on PS3, like they did for Fight 
 Night and some others. I'm guessing because they got too busy comparing graphics and frame-rate 
 since they played it before... But I tell you, RPG fan or not you should run and buy this game 
 because it will make your wait a WHOLE lot smoother. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: beynolds
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 11:25 pm PT
Review:  First off I'd like to say I purchased this game on its release date and it hasn't left my PS3 since. 
 **Its extremely addictive!
  Its the most immersive, lengthy, and involving game I've seen for a while. Virtually everything 
 in the world of Oblivion is tangible, making it complex in so many ways. Your character is shaped 
 by you, down to their own personality. Gameplay is action oriented something I like, its tactical 
 hack n' slash. Not just melee weapons, you must be able to utilize your defense and magic effectively 
 to whoop-up on enemies.
  The side quests aren't small either, I've been so into the Knights of Nine mission to find the 
 holy armor that I totally forgot about the main story! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MichaelSoft
Rating: 9.6
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:52 pm PT
Review:  Ever since this game launched on the Xbox 360 and soon afterwards the PC, I couldn't help but feel 
 jealous that Sony didn't have what may be the best RPG ever made. I was down and depressed, that 
 is until I heard The Elder Scrolls: Obvlivion was coming to the Ps3. Oblivion is just what the 
 Ps3 needed, and what Sony fanboys have been craving for, now after a years wait we can finally 
 lay hands on the most splendid RPG we have ever laid eyes on. With Immersive and huge dungeons 
 and cities, detailed graphics, and a highly deep customization system, this game excels to the 
 top of all games. Every spell you cast will have you sparkling with awe, every jab you take at 
 an enemy will have you smirking with joy, and every quest you accomplish will make you ever more 
 so addicted to this game called Oblivion.
  
  The story is deep for this type of game, and although I do not want to spoil it for others I'll 
 say this; it does have some twist in the plot, even in the side quest there are many surprises 
 that abound. The story launches off with an tinroductory CG stating that it was the last hours 
 of the King's lives and that the jaws of Oblivion of opened, there you adventure into chaos, enthrilled 
 in an epic like adventure.
  
  The world is immersive and huge, it gives you the feel of excitement and freedom like no other 
 game has, not even KOTOR. Not only that but everything is detailed, right down to the wood of the 
 barrels and the markings on the doors. Everything is shaded right and highly realistic. If you 
 hit an apple on a table, it will fall off and smash, then stay there for the duration of the game. 
 The lighting and textures of the games are absolutely stunning, luckily for Ps3 owners, this version 
 of Oblivion has tweaked graphics, making it a hair better then the original Xbox 360 title. You 
 have a big, grand world that's both immersive and gorgeous, but unlike most other games, there's 
 no cons to this. You can get through it by foot or map travel and best of all the load times are 
 less then 10 to 20 seconds each. And once again, for lucky Ps3 owners the load and save times are 
 much faster then the original Xbox 360 version.
  
  As for the combat, it's highly addictive. If you prefer first person perspective where you can 
 feel like you're actually there, you have the option of picking that. If you prefer thrid person, 
 in which you can see everything around you, then that option is there as well. Either way it'll 
 feel like you're really in the game. The combat is is a mix between hack n' slash and dynasty warriors 
 like. Though it has it's fair pace the battles are heart stopping, as you Hack your way out of 
 a trio of trolls while healing yourself and casting spells, you'll feel the intense rush of the 
 immersive battle engine. What helps combat ever more so is the cutsomization. With tons of classes 
 and races, armors, weapons, and spells, you really have alot of choices on your hands, and although 
 it't confusing at first, you'll get used to it. The audio is nice, and although some VO's are uses 
 over and over again, it is top qaulity once again, though not as great as KOTOR it gives you a 
 smiliar feel. The music, as always, is greatly orchestrated and gives you a nice sense of the atmosphere. 
 The clashing of iron and casting of spells is greatly done, and the screams and battlecries of 
 enemies sends a shriek through your heart. In other words, it's spendid.
  
  The only problem I had with this game is some roots of the navigational menus and how the cutsomization 
 (major and minor skills) were somewhat weirdly presented. Best you read some online guides before 
 playing this game. Other then that this is a better version of the game everybody remembers, the 
 only thing it's doesn't have advantage in is the downloadable content, though not to worry Ps3 
 owners, downloadable content is coming soon. Ps3 owners also get the expansion for free, a good 
 thumbs up, and tweaked graphics and load times.
  
  If you've already played this game on either PC or Xbox 360, there's nothing for you to see, but 
 if you haven't, go pick it up. I could well be the best game you have ever and will ever play. 
 Are you ready? Ready to enter a world of chaos, of betrayal and of Dark brotherhoods? Are you ready 
 to enter an immersive world of humans and orcs, of magic and the sword? Then enter Oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goodridd
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 31, 2007 4:04 pm PT
Review:  Beautiful graphics, awesome gameplay, 100+ hours of content. What more can you ask fo? This is 
 a must have game. It never really gets dull. There are so many classes, races, etc. to choose from. 
 It is definately a solid game. If this is the experience were getting at 4 months into the console, 
 I can't wait to see what the future holds. My only beef doesn't really apply to the game itself 
 but to the PS3 controller. Sometimes the controller loses connection and you character won't respond. 
 It gets annoying, but it's a PS3 issue and not an Oblivion issue.
  
  I don't understand how the PS3 version scored lower than the 360 version. It's improved in every 
 area and has more content. I give the PS3 version a 9.7 and the 360 version 9.2. And yes, I own 
 both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yaba
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 31, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  I have played both the PC version and the PS3 version and I have to say that I actually prefer 
 the PS3 version. When you play the PC version you have to worry about system requirements but not 
 with the PS3. Even with a system that exceeds the recommended requiments you cant expect to play 
 oblivion in it's full glory. But with the PS3 you can play oblivion like it was meant to be played. 
 The Oblivion really plays well on the PS3 but it isn't without the flaws. The draw distance stretches 
 far off into the distance. Detail slowly appears as you get closer to objects. As you walk you 
 can see things pop up before you. Mostly it is just foliage that does this but every once in a 
 while you see buildings pop up into view only a few dozen feet in front of you.
  
  The story isn't extremely deep. It is not the standard American RPG story but the story isn't the 
 main focus here. The game offers so many sub-stories that you can wonder off the main story for 
 hours at a time. You exist in a large world that you can get lost in for a long time, and crawl 
 through caves, explore small towns, wonder through the woods, and explore the mountains.
  
  The game play takes place in a first/third person perspective. You fight with swords axes, bows, 
 and magic. The gameplay isn't very hard to master. After the first few fights you basically know 
 what you need to know from the start.
  
  The good:
  Graphics, vast open world, acceptable storyline lots of 100 hours of gameplay, lots of voice acting 
 for every charcter
  
  the bad:
  graphics are a little glitchy, fighting simple, spent too much time playing this game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VeSupreme
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 6:02 pm PT
Review:  Pros- Great Graphics, Awsome sound, decreased load times, KOTN.
  
  Cons- There could have been more twiks with the extra time they had.
  
  Oblivion is now on 
 the PS3 and stay's what it is and has shown nothing can make this game fail. Oblivion on the Xbox 
 360 was beyond all others expectations with the amazing detail to the greatly immersive map. With 
 the port to the PS3 all can enjoy the glory of the Elder Scrolls game without any regret on which 
 system you buy for. In this version of Oblivion their were minor twiks to the game that sometimes 
 got frustrating on the 360 if you didn't have Xbox live. It has made the load times noticeably 
 faster with a very slight enchance on far away perspectives. Then with the included Knights of 
 the Nine expansion already in the game it makes it worth the extra $10 if you already have the 
 PS3. Otherwise what ever system you have pick this game up now I dont care if your in your mother's 
 basement online at 2:00 in the moring go somewhere and buy this game trust me you will thank me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: plastic1980
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 30, 2007 1:25 pm PT
Review:  GRAPHICS
  The graphics in this game are amazing. From lush forests to tall mountain peaks, this game has 
 it all. All of your weapons are shiny and pretty to look at and I just love to mess it up by smearing 
 the blood of my enemies all over my sword. The physics are very good and the lipsyncing is practically 
 lifelike. And the human faces do look pretty much like a real human which is definantly a step 
 up from morrowind. And you wont just find the graphics at its prime in cities. Out in the wilderness 
 there are tall trees, bright flowers, and flowing grass. Not to mention the occasional ruin. Compared 
 to the 360 version though, the graphics made a slight improvement but nothing really to go crazy 
 over. GAMEPLAY
  Well this is pretty much the only place where the game is slightly below perfect. I just am not 
 fond of the whole enemies level up with you thing. I know it is just to keep the game interesting 
 but still it just makes it seem like your not gaining anything from playing the game hours on end. 
 Everything else is good though. Sneaking is now useful with the strategic critical damage system, 
 and the unautomatic blocking again makes the game more strategic then just a polished up point 
 and click. But what really gives the game its extreme awsomeness is how you can live the agme however 
 you want. You actually have the ability to kill ANYBODY. But that doesnt mean you will just go 
 slahing anybody you see. There are consiquences to every illegal action you do. Well that is if 
 you are caught.
  
  SOUND
  This game really brings the section SOUND to a whole new level. There are litterally hundreds of 
 hours of text read to you by half descent voice actors. And I dont just mean they say a few things 
 and then you read the rest. Everything you see in words is read by an actual voice actor. Thats 
 is not something you come across very often. And the music is nothing less than perfect. It really 
 fits the medieval theme. It can go from peacful music while your walking in the forest to tense 
 rugged music when you are fighting a tough enemy. And how can we forget the sound of metal clinging 
 on metal or a helpless animals organs getting splatered eith a warhammer. It is all just realistic 
 beyond belief. Sometimes you wonder what they had to do to get the realistic noises of death.
 
  
  AI
  Its great. Your opponent wont just randomly hit you, step back, hit you, athen step back again. 
 They ready there sheild when its obviouse your about to do an attack, dont hit you when you blatently 
 have your sheild up, and even use healing spells when their about to die. And the weaker people 
 that your pick a fight with wont just stay there and die. If they know theyll get killed they will 
 run away and go off to tell a guard. And even your animal enemies know what level you are and will 
 stay away if they know theyll get slaughtered. Overall I was very impressed with the AI.
  
  SHOULD I BUY THIS GAME
  Oh god yes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: battleblade04
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 29, 2007 11:02 pm PT
Review:  Im addicted to this game, once you first start playing you dont wanna put it down everything about 
 it is amazing the gameplay, graphics, how long it is, and anything else. this is one of the only rpg 
 games that people cant miss. everyone should have this game bc it owns anything thrown at it. ive 
 played it like 5 hours a day since i got it, i just wish it had the duplication glitch still, but 
 i can deal without it well i love it and i bet everyone that plays it does too. o o o o o o o o 
 o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o 
 o o o yeah 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed_brannon
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 28, 2007 9:01 pm PT
Review:  Listen i have looked forwardv to this game i have not played this game on anything else. So i was 
 suprised when i got it. First the game is massive the world if huge. Plus it looks great all the 
 sceanery is beautiful. The enemys are smart and there are a number of different ones. Shivering 
 Iles is set to be relesed for it this summer. OK now that thgat is out of the way lets jump in 
 to it. First off creating a charecter is crazy customizable. Thewre are many races signs and classes 
 plus you can create your own classes. The look of the player is also madly customizable you can 
 change everything you could spend hours just developing a charecter. The battle system is decent 
 i like it it is pretty much the same kind that is on the PC version it is pretty easy to control 
 and catch on. The game play is also good i like it, it is easy to control and the charecters are 
 also very different in the game. The music is very good it matches the settings well. And the real 
 time enviroment is great the litghting is done well. Over all it is great . I reccomend for all 
 rpgers and anyone who would like an adveture and a long story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Flesh
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 19, 2007 6:54 pm PT
Review:  I think the game kicks ass. Beautiful graphics and sound. The game is extremely long and has nuances 
 that you can play around with exactly what I like in an RPG. The sand box style gameplay ala GTA 
 has become my new preferred feature in an RPG. However I can't give this thing an 8.5 let alone 
 anything higher for one very specific reason. Bugs.... and lots of them. Voice bugs, lip synching 
 bugs, voice effect bugs, items dropping through the floor, clipping bugs, AI bugs..... I once came 
 into a section of forest where two impereal foresters were shooting at each other and a deer and 
 a bandit attacked my horse...... the survivors left the combat area completely ignoring the fact 
 I was pumping arrows into them. There are other bugs as well freezing, graphical lagging when I'm 
 stationary, anti aliasing quality varying. At first I thought my PS3 was broke cause I was playing 
 the game for 40 hours straight but then I popped in Resistance Fall of Man and it had no issues 
 so it's got to be the game. Anyway...... I excuse bugs on PCs because with all the different hardware 
 combinations it's practicaly impossible to ship without some bug or another creeping up.... but 
 the PS3 Oblivion should have zero bugs. First the game is a year old so any engine problems should 
 more than be taken care of, second it's standardized hardware so there should be zero hardware 
 compatibilty issues. So I give it an 8 due to the half assed port if all the downloadable content 
 was made available on the PS3 version I would have given it a 9. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: STABW0UND
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2007 12:54 am PT
Review:  this is an awesome game but the ps3 version didnt really fit with me i think i was so used to the 
 360 version that when you go from that to this its just not.... the same.. its defiantly a long 
 game that will keep you playing for hours and hours especially if you have never played it before. 
 its the next best thing since morrowwind and if you played that you will know how good this game 
 will be. great sound amazing visuals relitivaly easy to get a hang of . can get boring at parts 
 if your not into the story line but if you are you wont even realize you have been playing for 
 hours and hours on end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taylor9124
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 7:05 pm PT
Review:  Wow, this game is simply amazing. to get to the point, if you have a ps3 buy this. To begin with, 
 i have never played any of the elder scrolls game prior to this, so i didnt know what i was in 
 for. I actually got the hang of the game quite soon, about 30-40 minutes. The world you can explore 
 is HUGE, simply HUGE. There are so many quests to do you can find yourself wondering which one 
 you want to do next, since you will be spending 100+ hours on this game. The graphics are amazing, 
 can have very minor glitches, but nothing that will distract you from the amazing details and lighting 
 effects. Also, the customization is awesome, you can change what you look like in an instant. I 
 will warn you, this game can get boring, but trust me, it will turn around. When i say get boring, 
 i mean the point in the game where you are stuck and dont know what to do, but once you find out 
 what to do you will be hooked again. All in all, if you are looking for a long, in depth game with 
 good graphics, a huge roaming world, deep customization, and tons of different quests, then this 
 is the game for you. for you people, like me, who had never played an elder scrolls game before 
 this, you need to try this game. ive had it for 3 days and have played it over 30 hours. YES, it 
 is that good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snakeeyesrp
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 27, 2007 4:11 pm PT
Review:  Best game on ps3 hands down if you have a ps3 you should own this. Still wondering why it got a 
 lower rating on ps3 than 360 when even on thier own review they said it looked and played better 
 on ps3 makes you wonder hmmm.. This game will get you trapped in the story and gameplay get ready 
 to spend hrs playing this game. From the start you break out of prison and help the king escape 
 you will be lost from then on. I havent begun to crack the game but from what I see your will be 
 hooked from start to end. The ps3 verison plays and looks better than both 360 and PC this game 
 is just straight eye candy for your ps3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdkingsht
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 12:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok... so... i wanted to spend some time with this game before reviewing it. I'm talking a few multi-hour 
 sessions taking it through the rounds. With a game this size in terms of content, options and sheer 
 depth i didn't want to rate it on anything less than 10 hours. First let me say that the hype this 
 game has gotten is well deserved. If you are an RPG fan (or truthfully even if you're not and just 
 like great games) then you need to play this game. Period. The gameplay is simple at its roots 
 and intuitive with fighting and blocking and moving being very 2nd nature for just about any gamer. 
 Movement is also familiar for anyone that has played any FPS. Each weapon type has a different 
 feel to it so you can see which suits your play style best. Combat is not too easy but also not 
 impossibly difficult. It's a good balance that makes you feel like you're actually fighting these 
 things as opposed to just killing random hordes of goblins and animals. If anything holds it back 
 from being perfect in terms of gameplay it's that the menus in your journal (main menu for weapons, 
 magic, items, etc) is not user friendly. It can be a bit bothersome and awkward to navigate at 
 first with a number of small symbols and sub menus. The music is incredible! Setting the mood for 
 you every step of the way and it doesn't miss a beat. From confrontations to sneaking around dungeons 
 to walking or riding along open fields and dirt roads. The sound effects and voiceovers are also 
 very well done. The coolest part of about Elder Scrolls IV is that the way you play determines 
 your path and who/what you are. There are so many ways to play this game. With a ridiculous amount 
 of sidequests or factions to join, decisions to make, missions to take, multiple races and masteries 
 to try the replay value of this game is unmatched. If you are the type to confront any and all 
 that cross your path your warrior skills will be legendary. if you're more the sneak and evade 
 type you can be a theif or assassin. The options and ways to play this game are limitless. The 
 graphics are great and some of the backgrounds and environments are just incredible to behold in 
 detail and in size. Overall this is one game that no one with a PS3 should miss, RPG fan, action 
 adventure fan, gamer period. This is what gaming experiences should aim to be. If you pick this 
 one up plan to spend a lot of time testing out that shiny new PS3 of yours. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andy8vien
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 10:24 am PT
Review:  For a non solo RPG fan this game has caught my attention big time, I'm more of an online/MMORPG 
 player . The environment in this game is breath taking ang the gamplay is really smooth the story 
 line right of the bat gets your attention and makes you want to find out what's next... kind of 
 a bit of a downside of the game which takes a bit away from leveling which is really up to you 
 and how much time you have to play the game because it will consume so much time just going from 
 one place to another. It would have been nice if it was online where you can interact with other 
 players but overall it's impressive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amourkiss
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:11 am PT
Review:  This game is simply stunning, from the way it looks and how it plays, all gives you a reason to 
 dedicated your time into this masterpeice game.
  Start from the graphic, the developer really did improve the texture of this game, and now you 
 are not only see more clear, and you also see further in the game, if you've played the 360 version, 
 you will notice the draw distance is greatly improved. The lighting effect works well, and the 
 graphic overall looks shaper than 360 version.
  Sound, for my experienced, I didn't notice any different from the previous ones. as for the gameplay, 
 I do feel like the pace is kinda faster, I mean when you are walking, feels like you moving a bit 
 faster, or maybe that can be just my imaginations.
  for now, there are no downloadable content offer available, but I do think they will put something 
 up in the PSN soon in the future.
  this open-ended RPG should make everyone give it a try, I already in, how about you ? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Schlermie
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:21 pm PT
Review:  I actually owned the PS3 for about 2 weeks before purchasing a game. This was the first game I 
 purchased, and I was not disappointed in the least. It's extremely addictive and well made. It's 
 like participating in major motion picture production. I never want it to stop, because I can't 
 wait to see what's going to happen next. I just hope I have enough free time in the week to finish 
 it. The game is enormous in breadth and depth. You could easily spend hundreds of hours on this 
 game. Although the graphics look great and the textures are well done, there could be more variation 
 of objects in the rooms, so I didn't give it a full 10, but it's darn close. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wurz1515
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 26, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  After spending mindless hours and just about killing myself with energy drinks and frozen pizzas 
 playing; I've played enough to give a review for Oblivion.
  
  This game is a now a must buy for any PS3 owner who does not have Oblivion for PC or X-Box 360; 
 not just because of it's hours of massive gameplay through exciting and diverse side quests, but 
 to finally witness the unleashing of the power of the Playstation 3. This game has an amazing diverse 
 set of character creation techniques as well as ability to show how your players actions effect 
 those around you. From the start of the game, you gain complete control over your character and 
 will be able to pick a style that is best for you whether it is Melee, Archery, or Magic or combinations 
 of the three (though power will differ) . There is never a dull moment due to the add-on of fast 
 travel which allows you to travel anywhere in a flash which is huge due to it takes at least 30 
 minutes to travel across most of the map on horseback and a lot longer on foot.
  
  There are quite a few advances compared to the 360 with the add-on expansion that will have to 
 be downloaded instead of just on it. Graphics and loading times are also improved and are well 
 welcomed despite the long amount of time having to wait. Controller layout might also be more to 
 a person used to Playstation format.
  
  Oblivion is not without it's flaws; however, as at times can produce lag with various surroundings 
 and character jumping into the screen at the last minute. The third person style is nice for looking 
 at your character and riding a horse, but not useful in combat due to the strange walking habits 
 of your character and medium camera control. First person RPGs are not very common but for most 
 it's a great welcome to diverse playing.
  
  The game is not as perfect as could have been, but with the current amount of games available for 
 the PS3, this is definitely on the must have. Though there are flaws with the Playstation 3 version, 
 it is one of the best games for the console and gives players hope of games to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mez777
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 6:13 pm PT
Review:  This game is the closest thing to perfect anybody could ever get. This is the best game i have 
 ever played and even though im getting 2 new ps3 games a ps2 game and a psp game next week i dont 
 think ill play those games for a while because ill be busy playing Oblivion. It's that freakin 
 good i have never been more excited about a game in your life. If there is anything worth buying 
 a Ps3 for this is it. the load times are so much faster on the PS3 version and you can do just 
 about anything you want. It's pretty much fells like you are on a diffrent world and its really 
 and u could be anything you want rom a good guy to a thief or even murderer and you can join a 
 guild according to what you are doing. Over all this is the best game ive ever played and as soon 
 as i finish writing this its time for more oblivion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: coverman
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  Games like this remind me of why I love playing video games. Oblivion is simply an amazing work! 
 The beautiful and immersive world pulls you in and then keeps you there. From the very start, the 
 story draws you into the game. Of course there are some stereotypical plots and character issues 
 taking place that are common in the fantasy genre, but they are done in way that fits. There is 
 certainly an epic feel to the game and you can easily get lost in the world.
  
  I have found a few times, when roaming the countryside, the frame rate will drop a little, but 
 its certainly a minor issue. Small details like the way the wind blows in the trees or the way 
 stars twinkle in the sky to just add to the overall graphical beauty.
  
  Minus the slight performance glitches now and thenits a definite 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jwwofford
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  This is not the game you want if have a relationship that needs to be maintained or if you must 
 remain gainfully employed. Elder Scrolls is so absorbing and distracting that normal activities 
 like sleeping and eating maybe forgotten at times. I throughly enjoyed the game play as well as 
 learning the game system. The game is as close to having an entire world on a DVD. The role playing 
 game genre seemed to die a slow death in the 90's despite multiple iterations of Final Fantasy 
 and Wizardry. The plethora of sports games and first person shooters did not help the situation 
 at all either. Now with the Elder Scrolls, hard core RPG players will no longer have to bow their 
 heads in shame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gfactor
Rating: 9.9
Date: Mar 26, 2007 12:03 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a first person RPG that takes the player on a quest to seal the Oblivion Gates and 
 bar the vile creatures that are pouring from it.
  
  Now with that said let me get on with this review. This game rocks! Plain and simple. Why? Well 
 all the hype behind the non-linear path this game takes the player on is much deserved. The world 
 is huge and there is much to do here. If there is one thing I will say thats awful about this 
 game is that theres too much to do and the world is too large. Now Ive just been blessed with 
 a baby boy so it was probably a huge mistake getting this game. Its involving and pulls you into 
 it and I find myself begging the missus to take an extra shift with our son. I can honestly say 
 at some points I can care less about my overall quest, I just want to live in this place and join 
 as many guilds and groups as I can. Im no expert in specks or anything of that nature, all I can 
 say is the game is damn pretty and runs smoothly with only the smallest of hiccups when new areas 
 load. You can expect a little wait when leaving or entering cities or dungeons but its not all 
 that bad. There isnt too much I can say about this game honestly. Is there a lot to do? Yes! Is 
 it fun? Yes! Graphics? Top notch! Just try it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjoe
Rating: 6.4
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:23 am PT
Review:  One of the biggest games around has come to the playstation 3 and about time it did and its called 
 Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion .
  
  First off what sets this version differently from the xbox 360 is that it comes with the bonus 
 content like that was released for the pc then later came out on a xbox magazine cd so you could 
 install.
  
  The graphics will honestly blow you away , and bring the player more into the game . The detail 
 you will see is just so freaking cool . The graphics seen in the playstation 3 version really do 
 stand out . They also look decent on most regular tv's and of course if your hooked up to a hdtv 
 it will look alot better.
  
  The audio for everything in this game is really well done . I have my ps3 hooked up to a sony theater 
 system and sounds really well and brings the game more to life . I have also tested on a normal 
 setup no theater and sounds really well for tv speakers .
  
  The controls might take a little time to learn for most player's but some might be able to pickup 
 a little faster .
  
  The fun factor can come in many different way's but will touch base on two of the biggest that 
 most might like is that being able to design your own toon , and the replay value .
  
  Being able to design your own toon is a good key feature to any game ! The reason is the player 
 gets to see his or hers creation level up and become alot more powerful in whatever class path 
 they select. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamer443
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 25, 2007 7:16 pm PT
Review:  This game so awesome that i almost stayed up 5 hours after midnight but thankfully it was an weekend. 
 The strong piont of this game is basicly everything. I mean what game that doesnt make go FP Sword 
 play action do. This game includes the KoTN which is pretty cool trying to the Crusaders armor 
 wich is awesome looking. Also faster loading times than the 360 version. The bad thing about this 
 game is that some times you can see a couple framerate problems which is hardly noticable. This 
 game will take almost the whole year well maybe not but it will save you time for waiting for that 
 certain type of game to come out maybe MGS4 or Final Fantasy 13 or maybe that very one game that 
 will make you piss your pants off and i am not talking about Gears of War 2 or Halo 3. Overall 
 this game is great and this is a must have for any PS3 owners out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: drim_vells
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 9:30 pm PT
Review:  You will not escape this game. I have owned it on the PC since day one and put a lot into it. The 
 thing is I always liked Morrowind better on Xbox rather than PC so I wanted to try Oblivion on 
 a console but I didn't want to get a 360 for it. I must say the graphics are very nice though they 
 can't beat the PC version + a few mods. But other that this game is great. Love the gameplay and 
 the value is endless. There's just so much to do. If you own a PS3 you must buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sycros
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:21 pm PT
Review:  Oblivion is a very enjoyable rpg. Great graphics and play is very smooth. I'm sure I'll be logging 
 many hours in the near future. What I really like about this game is you can really do what you 
 want. If saving the day and following the main story line is your thing, than great. But what makes 
 oblivivon awesome is you can do or shape the game to your liking. Very fun without any restrictions. 
 Guess if I was to make a recommendation it would be to make an online version as well. Mind you 
 I quite happy to play the single player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nichol4s
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 24, 2007 3:47 pm PT
Review:  Not going to say much more than Gamespot's review. This is my first Elder's scroll game... and 
 actually my first western RPG. I did try some western RPGs in the past... but I usually can't get 
 past the first hour. Oblivion changes my view on western RPGs.
  
  Gameplay: 10/10
  I used to find western RPGs boring and long winded but Oblivion actually surprised me with how 
 interesting a western RPG can be. I was actually skeptical about getting this game for my PS3 but 
 with reviews everywhere with an average of 9.5/10, I know I can't go wrong with this game.
  
  The game world is very believable and actually makes you feel like you are part of the living 
 world of Oblivion. There's a wide variety of classes to choose from, so you can actually choose 
 who you want to be, this is a big difference from JRPGs.
  
  Graphics: 9/10
  Beautiful and stunning. The only reason why I gave it a 9/10 instead of perfect is because there 
 are some problems which can be seen even at the introduction of the game. Yep.. jerky framerates. 
 Although I read that the PS3 version is much smoother, I feel that the developers can still do 
 a better job making sure there are no slowdowns. It'll be perfect if they are able to fix that.
 
  
  Sound: 10/10
  Music and sound in this game are perfect. Everyone actually has a voiceover unlike other RPGs so 
 it is much better than reading it yourself which usually bores the crap out of me in western RPGs.
 
  
  Value: 10/10
  Every forum I go to, people say you can clock 100 hrs of gameplay. Not sure if it's exaggerating 
 but with what you pay for, it's certainly worth it. It also includes Knights of the Nine which 
 is free for PS3 owners.
  
  Bottom line is Oblivion is the most in depth and beautiful RPG game available... across all platforms. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DominicanAG
Rating: 9.2
Date: Mar 24, 2007 2:20 pm PT
Review:  I don't know what made me wait this long for this game maybe I wasn't to sure about it after it 
 was released a year ago. I've heard about all the glitches and problems it had on the Xbox360 version 
 and that made me not want to spend $60 bucks on it back then. I guess waiting a full year for this 
 game paid off because now it's on the PS3 and it comes with the expansion pack that was available 
 on the PC and Xbox360 version for $10 but on the PS3 it's already included once you purchase which 
 is cool. If you've played this game for the 360 and PC it's the same actual game with shaper graphics. 
 You still get the occasional hiccups that you get on the Xbox360 and PC version when you explore 
 parts of the world in the game. You have two options from how to view the game in first person 
 or third person. This game is meant to be played in first person you feel more involved playing 
 it in first person. One of the things that I like about this game is the free-roaming. This is 
 one of the main reason why I bought this game. You have the freedom to do whatever you like. You 
 can do the main quest which is up to 100+ hours or you can do whatever you like in the game and 
 not even touch the main quest it is up to you how you do things. If you haven't already picked 
 up this game for the other version I would recommend this game to anybody that missed out on the 
 other version. I'm a fan of RPG games as it is but I've never played one like this before as far 
 as first person view. I like that fact that you can save at any moment and you can pick up exactly 
 were you left off. So if you like RPGs and Open World games than you should definitely check this 
 game out for the PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: yojimy
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 24, 2007 1:54 am PT
Review:  this game is a must have for ps3 owners
  the graphics are way better than the xbox 360 version and the audio is also better than the 360
 
  this game made me love my ps3 even more because it shows the real power of the ps3 and it gave 
 gamers a new reason why to buy ps3
  gamespot gave it 9 for graphics but I think it should be 10
  the audio also should be 10
  I 
 played the 360 version and loved it, but when I heard it was coming for ps3, I stopped where I 
 was (60 hours in the game) and waited for the ps3 version to come out. I was so glad when I played 
 on the ps3 since it looks better than the 360 version (fact, not opinion) , it loads faster (which 
 was I good pro on my view since the 360 version load times were not so enjoyable) , and it has the 
 extra content of Knights of the Nine, and soon it's going to have Shivering Isles. If you played 
 this for 360 or PC in the past but didn't fully play the **** out of it, it's a must buy for you 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jb2011
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 7:23 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting over three months for this game. When it released I went straight to the store. 
 I played, and I was not disappointed. Oblivion met every one of my expectations. The variety of 
 things you can do is breathtaking and it packs over 100 hours of gameplay into one game. Your character 
 is completely customizable, being able to change every aspect of their faces, skills, and attributes. 
 I don't think I could ever get bored of this game. This game comes with the expansion Knights of 
 the Nine, which retails for 20$ on computer at Wal-Mart. This game is worth the 60$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biggamerhk
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 26, 2007 9:20 am PT
Review:  The Elder Scrolls IV: Oblivion is an extraordinary game without a single doubt, and is clearly 
 the best game on the PS3 up to date. I cannot describe how immense this game is -- over 100 hours 
 of gameplay, and a gigantic world to explore. This is probably the longest game you will ever play. 
 I am far from finishing the game. But, from what I've played, I can tell you one thing -- this game 
 is worth getting. Period. Gameplay: 9 Gameplay works very well overall, but can be rather tedious 
 at times. (but, don't worry -- the graphics, sound, and everything else make up for this little flaw) . 
 Graphics: 10 One of the best-looking games on the PS3. Beautiful world to explore, full of cities, 
 forests, and much more. Graphics make the huge world feel very real. Spectacular. Sound: 10 Great 
 Voice Acting, great sound effects -- couldn't be any better. Value: 10 This is easily a 10. With 
 more than 100 hours of gameplay time, c'mon! What more could you possibly ask for? Reviewer's Tilt: 
 10. Oblivion lives up to its hype on the PS3, and is easily one of the best games on the system 
 so far. This game is an absolute must-get. No exceptions!
  
  P. S. GameSpot is extremely biased for giving the PS3 version of Oblivion lower rating than the 
 360 one. I mean, really!!! Enhanced graphics, shorter loading times, and the Knights of Nine exspansion 
 They could have at least given it the same score as the 360 one. Something is definitely wrong 
 with GameSpot. It just makes me so angry! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkingbobxxx
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 6:42 am PT
Review:  This is a great rpg. It has many weponds and is nery fun to do mini games like the arena. The game 
 actully nevr ends because you can keep exploring the HUGE map and keep getting your stats up. This 
 game is good for anyone and ignor the rated M rating the blood is minor. I have never seen any 
 sexual themes and the use of alchol is just u can pick up some ale and drink it. LOL it should 
 be rated teen other wise this is a long great game wait wat am i saying this is the BEST GAME EVER 
 MADE!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RabbidDawg
Rating: 9.7
Date: May 27, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  So we should all be fairly familiar with Oblivion by now as its been on the 360 and PC for over 
 a year, and yet this version is what the first versions SHOULD have been like.
  
  the story goes, that you are a prisoner of the empire when all of a sudden the emperors sons have 
 been killed and hes next. Fate leads him to your prison cell were you follow him through a secret 
 passage until he dies. His last wish is for you to find his illegitimate son.
  
  Its all up to you now. Go straight for the story or explore to your hearts content.
  
  Graphics: 
 The visuals in this version are top notch. They are not just a tad better, they are noticeably 
 better. The textures are much thicker and sharper, and the lighting is just superb. The 360 version 
 was too dark on default settings were this version is perfect
  
  For those who have played Oblivion before the Great forest is a site to behold. The Great Forrest 
 looks just as good and realistic as ever. The only odd thing about the PS3 version is the color. 
 It would seem that the color saturation is greater on the 360 than the PS3. The PS3 doesn't look 
 washed out and actually a lot of people have complained about the 360s colors being over saturated, 
 but I have to say that I like the 360s colors a bit better. And color wise the great forest and 
 vegetation look a lot greener and fresher on the 360.
  
  The shadows cast better, and the water seems to have better reflections than the 360 version as 
 well as weather affects are better PS3 wise too.. Draw distance is a bit farther. Overall everything 
 just has a cleaner, thicker look and feel to it than on the 360. The only version graphically better 
 would be the PC but your PC must be uber.... dual or quad SLI gpu's to get mid/high to full potential 
 out of this system hog.
  
  Note: I tested Component and HDMI and the PS3 still beats the 360 Graphically hands down whether 
 its component or HDMI.
  
  Gameplay. It seems the controls shine on the consoles for this game, and for me the PS3 analog 
 sticks actually feel better than the 360's and I usually prefer the 360 pad, go figure. No matter 
 what any fan boys says the frames per second are not better but more stable. Its still a 30 FPS 
 game, but it actually stays there more on the PS3 and doesn't dip so often like it does on the 
 360. On the 360 when out in the wilderness you can expect frame stuttering every 20-30 seconds, 
 maybe even more depending on how hot the 360 is, while on the PS3 the only times I notice slowdown 
 are during auto saves and the occasional dip when exploring the Great Forrest. Still they are not 
 half as bad as the 360 or low to mid-end PC.
  
  Most bugs and glitches were fixed with patches on the 360, but as some of us 360 owners know Oblivions 
 biggest flaw is random freezing especially after long hours of play, I tested the PS3 version and 
 played 24 hours straight, even when the PS3 was at its hottest there was never a freeze, flashing 
 polygon, glitch, or crash of any kind. To further my point the 360 patch came pout today to improve 
 loading times etc. 5 minutes in it froze, and the new patch was suppose to fix these things, go 
 figure.
  
  The combat, spells, story, and everything else gameplay wise is identical to the other version, 
 exception being that the PS3 owners get the Knight of the Nine faction from the start and don't 
 have to download it or pay for it separately and that is always a plus. 10 more hours of gameplay 
 never hurt anyone.
  
  Sound: Sound is better on the PS3 version as well. Its not as muffled and the clashing of swords 
 and shields, as well as the sizzling of magic all sound crisper especially when using HDMI. Perfection.
 
  
  Value: If you own the a 360 and PS3 Id get the PS3 version, if you own the 360 version sell it, 
 and get the PS3 version, of course unless you have or are planning on dumping money on the DL content 
 for the 360.
  
  This game is just huge and Knights of the nine being free is a huge plus. AND DON'T COUNT OUT DL 
 CONTENT FOR THE PS3 EITHER!
  
  Bethesda already said once they learn more about the PSN and the PS3 version has a big fan base 
 they will release all of the DL content. Memory bottlenecks are pure rumor and Bethesda dispelled 
 those already. They also stated other than Knights of the Nine, the rest of the content wouldn't 
 make sense to have from the begging which it wouldn't it doesn't fit with a new game so well. Just 
 wanted to clear that up for every one.
  
  Back to value, this game has well into 200 hours or more of game play. What more do we want? JRPG 
 fans beware though, just because you like RPGs or Final Fantasy doesn't mean you will like this 
 game. Its not turned base or Asian based in any way. So JRPG fans I suggest a rent other wise this 
 is a must have game for people looking to live in another world and do almost what ever they want. 
 Its simply HUGE and improves greatly on an already proven game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kg7310
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 23, 2007 12:03 am PT
Review:  Great Game!!! I recommend it to every ps3 player, a must have ps3 game, by far the best ps3 game 
 today :] I give it a 10 .... a perfect game to buy these days...:] and with knights of the nine 
 included it deserves a 11 but they only have it to 10 : / hahahah i would have give it a 11 but 
 whatever I can't U_U Go OBLIVION !!! Perfect Score! ammm what else can i put ? : / Oh yeah great 
 gameplay and faster loading times than the xbox 360 version... ps3 version is way cooler absolutely 
 awesome game for the ps3 no way to give it a 9 thats way too bad ... people !! give it a ten plz! 
 it really deserves it amm its my frist review so i dont know what to put so let me see if this 
 is a hundred words... well yeah elder scrolls iv oblivion rocks !!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: iwtrent59
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 8:16 pm PT
Review:  with 400 total hours spent on the xbox 360 version, switching over to the ps3 version is a substancail 
 difference in all aspects of the game (except the negatives of course!) . The new quest is without 
 a doubt the best quest I have ever done. The new armour is pretty sweet too. I wish everyone who 
 sees this game fells the same way I do. I mean, how could questing across Cyrodil for bits of lost 
 god armour then recruiting people along the way. Later leading them into battle against a foe that 
 will destroy Tamerial with the fate of the entire world at stake into an epic battle possibly be 
 boring? The difficulty is set so high because Bethesda wanted to make the game challenging, so 
 players don't just slide right on by. I mean isn't a game supposed to hard at times? Exactly, thats 
 what I thought. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriangleHard
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 5:20 pm PT
Review:  I have not played PC version of Oblivion nor have I played Xbox 360 version. So this review won't 
 contain comparisons between those 2 versions. Also that means I'll review this game as a game that 
 has just been released, not a year old game. Let's start from the graphic. The tech part of Oblivion 
 is quite stunning. The texture, seamless world, great character model and building model, and more. 
 They are all great and just amazing to look at, however does this game look better than other games? 
 The answer is no. The difference is while the tech side of the graphic is amazing, the design aspect 
 is not so great. The cities and buildings are incredibly well designed, but the rest of the design 
 is not as impressive. Beyond the Oblivion gate lies way too typical. The reddish color pattern, 
 pointy tower, fleshy looking walls, and death traps with spears. They are well designed but certainly 
 far from being unique. And then there is characters. The characters themselevs looks great. The 
 clothing, armors, weapons, are all far from being unique but they are well designed (except for 
 the hair, ew) . The problem lies within the animation. Your character animation looks way too stiff, 
 especially when they jump. Then the horse ride animation is there to make things look even worse. 
 Well I guess it is understandable that 3rd person view animation lacks because the game is meant 
 to be played in first person, but as a person who really dislike first person perspective in games, 
 that 3rd person perspective animation is not very pleasing to look at. Even in first person mode, 
 too often the animation lacks during story sequence. Just looking at characters face and talking 
 is effective way of telling the story, but it utterly fails to give the player to become emotional 
 with the story. It is understandable due to sheer size of the game, but that doesn't make me enjoy 
 the game more just because I understand the reason why it lacks dramatic scenes.
  
  Also there is frame rate issue. Again the amount of this problem occuring is small compared to 
 the size of the game, and it doesn't really effect the gameplay either, but it is annoying in my 
 eyes. Amazing accomplishment with size, but annoying is annoying and drop in frame rate is always 
 annoying. While the graphic is amazing and not many games can match Oblivion on tech side, but 
 that doesn't mean this game looks better than other games. Visually, Valkyrie Profile 2 is more 
 pleasing to look at. Not saying Bethesda did poor job visually, but objectively it isn't the best 
 thing I've seen due to the lack of good animations and artistic design. Sound is where this games 
 do great job to amaze people. The voice acting is near top quality. They do sound very natural 
 but they lack emotion at times and many NPCs share voices. Well, to know every NPC has voice and 
 you can talk to any of them adds quite a bit of positives in your experiances with the game. Also 
 there is great music in the game, although music isn't there all the time. Gameplay is where this 
 game really shines. There is plenty to explore in this game, the world is huge. You can literally 
 run for miles and see something new each step you take. That also means huge number of dungeons 
 to explore, and cities and NPCs to talk to. This is big plus for RPG game. Then there is freedom 
 this game gives you. You can explore anything at anytime, you can be good or bad, steal or buy, 
 choose how your story will unfold. The freedom can be overwhelming but if you can get used to it, 
 it becomes one of the greatest gaming experiance. However, the action is less impressive. The way 
 you fight in this game is similar to playing half life with a crowbar. The battle is pretty much 
 not a great first person shooter game. either Aim and shoot (magic or arrows) or slash your swords 
 and block. Compared to many exciting first person shooters that's out there, it is subpar. However, 
 it does have very interesting stealth aspect to it which makes it quite interesting when you explore 
 hostile area. Well it functions pretty good so it is good enough. After all this is role playing 
 game and role playing aspect of Oblivion is rock solid. The weakest link of Oblivion would be the 
 story. This is one of the most difficult game to be critical with the story, due to many interesting 
 side stories and multiple paths you can take with all the stories, but as for main story goes it 
 isn't very interesting. You can say it does taste like typical medivel fantasy story. Also many 
 character reactions doesn't seem believable, especially considering Oblivion story seems to follow 
 the idea of realistic reaction in unrealistic setting. I won'd ruin the story for anyone, but to 
 simply put, I've seen better story.
  
  Overall, the game does have the feel of MMO. This isn't really good thing because anyone who played 
 MMO would say the game itself isn't that great but the joy comes from meeting people and interacting 
 with them. Very often playing this game does make you feel little lonely. So this really isn't 
 a game for everyone. Someone who is looking for fun games you can just pick up and go, then this 
 certainly isn't the game for you. Anyone looking for action packed game, this also isn't the game 
 for you. And if you are the type of person who would like this kind of game, you've already got 
 it. If you aren't sure if you could be the type of person who can enjoy this game, then ask yourself. 
 Can you spend hours just walking around the town and listening to NPC? Could you enjoy playing 
 RPG without all the beautiful cut scenes seen in Final Fantasy series? Could you play first person 
 shooter if the control feels unresponsive? Do you enjoy reading books? Do you mind thinking with 
 numbers? Do you mind being alone? Do you mind stories that isn't all about character and their 
 mind (like many Final Fantasy stories since 7, if you complained about Final Fantasy XII story 
 don't bother with this game) If you don't mind all these things, give it a try. If not, try something 
 else because the game would either overwhelm you or just bore you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: halosniper52
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 2:46 pm PT
Review:  This is a great game to get if you have a ps3 get this game some good about it. It has improved 
 since. The 360 version faster load times better graphics and you can see longer into the distance 
 witch is not that big of a deal but its nice i would say if you have not got this game. Yet and 
 you have a 360 and ps3 get the ps3 version the story is a great one value this game will take you 
 a long time to beat since its a rpg and the ps3 version. Comes with the the Knights of the Nine. 
 So evan more quest than the 360 version and the combat is great you can play the game in 1st person 
 witch is awesome or you can play 3rd person witch is great to. sometimes tho the game will freeze 
 or lag on you it does that on all versions but the ps3 one is less so it does not get in your way 
 that much but it does bring down the gameplay. So overall this game is just a great game take you 
 along. Time to beat so if you have a ps3 and like rpg's this is your chance get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: malafe99
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2007 11:40 am PT
Review:  oblivion delivers in every aspect you find your self in a huge world full of adventures .The graphics 
 looks stunning and loading times have been fixed
  noticeable. I'm glad a buy this game this the best ps3 game out there its deserve a perfect score 
 I played last year for the 360 and now is even better
  This game will keep me busy for a long time if you haven't played before this is
  the perfect 
 time to go and buy it. I never though that this game will be so fun
  and addictive this is the most amazing role-playing game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: celtic_flav
Rating: 9.3
Date: Mar 22, 2007 10:59 am PT
Review:  this game is so great. It has upgraded graphics and a more in depth storyline. The best part is 
 that it is now on the PS3 which is a superb console. I'm a little dissapointed that gamespot didn't 
 do a review on this version to help out the PS3 in the console war. There is so much to see and 
 do in this game, that it really is the new wave in multi teared gaming entertainment. The selection 
 in races, the selection in storyline, and the selection in character class is amazing. From there 
 you shape your character's abilities and follow whatever storyline you would like. I was blown 
 away by the facial graphics and the voice acting of this game. It's a real home run. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Rogerwaterz
Rating: 8.4
Date: Mar 21, 2007 8:03 pm PT
Review:  First off, Let me say that I'm a hug Elder Scrolls fan, and thats probably the reason i own the 
 game for two systems. I love Oblivion. Ive clocked about 400 hours playing the game, which is ridiculous 
 and unhealthy, but its just so awesome. This game is not for the FPS shy, but isnt really an FPS. 
 Its an RPG at heart, although its been made more accessable to non-RPG players than its progenitor, 
 Morrowind. In Oblivion, you can actually hit stuff, for example. I love the game, and Im glad to 
 see so many people play it. Howevr, I do have problems on both versions with inconstant frame rate 
 and long load times, problems that aren't crippling, but annoying to say the least. Also, if you 
 dont like the controller of a particular system, you shouldnt play tis game on that system, because 
 you're going to invitably be spending lots of time on the controls. I hate the PS3 controllers 
 (and love the 360s, but i bought the game for 1080p support and the knights of the nine expansion 
 which is included with the PS3 version of the game) and I think the PS3 controllrs are very uncomfortable. 
 This is probably a problem because i'm probably going to be spending lots of time using it. My 
 advice, buy it for your favourite system. Its basically the same game either way. In any event., 
 th game is a cut above all other RPGs, save for my beloved Might and Magic, which is pretty hardcore. 
 This is definitly acessable enoigh for casual players, and deep enough and long enough for the 
 hardcore like me. Sorry for the mile long review, happy hunting. Theivery awaits......!!!!!
  
  -Waters 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NooBAFIED
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  First off this game is very long keeps going but its fun exploring and having fun, so get this 
 game theres no reason not to. The most Adventurnous-Action game is finaly on the PS3, it reminds 
 me a bit of zelda. The Graphics are Stunning and sound is amazing! So many things to choose in 
 the game gets so hard not knowing what you want, love the magic and sword fighting really fun. 
 It gets pretty trippy and i love it, i dont think its possible to get tired from this game. There 
 is no online play and i dont see why there should be.
  Get this game and good luck beating it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codethought
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:43 pm PT
Review:  I have both the XBox 360 and PS3 versions of Oblivion. And as great as the Xbox 360 version is, 
 the PS3 version takes that to another level. Graphics are smoother and far more crisp. The scenery 
 is cleaner and more crisp than in the 360 (and I didn't even think that possible) . Game play doesn't 
 have the occasional pauses that the 360 version has as different areas load. There are no drops 
 in framerate. There's a new best version of Oblivion and the PS3 version is it.
  
  If you have put off buying a PS3 because you were waiting for the killer app for it, I'd say you 
 no longer have to wait. Oblivion - even if it is a port - definitely makes outstanding use of the 
 PS3's abilities. So much so that it easily qualifies as a killer app in that it takes the game 
 above and beyond where it was in previous versions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sicilian4391
Rating: 9.7
Date: Mar 21, 2007 6:06 pm PT
Review:  An amazing game. Better graphics then the xbox version. There is so much so do in such a huge world 
 to do it it. A++++++. Finally a game that makes you feel good about spending 600.00 on the playstation 
 3. It is the best game for the playstation 3 yet (even though there is not much to chose from) . 
 If you own this system then you must have the game. Graphics are amazing. Gameplay is great. Music 
 is great. Everyting about this game is good. Plus there is 200+ hours of gameplay. What more can 
 you ask for. I haven't notice anything bad about the game except for i do not really like the third 
 person view. But since it not suppose to be played in third person i doesnt bother meto much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:08 am PT
Review:  Its is a amazing game. Graphics are amazing, area is the biggest ive ever seen. This game is kinda 
 hard, too hard..... Im still at the beggining because i keep dieing against the evil goblins, I 
 HATE THE FIRE! Story isent very long, even tho i havent beat it yet. You can do everying in this 
 game! I havent foudn somthing i couldent do yet. This game is a must buy for PS3 and its a game 
 that should never be forgotten. There are soo many thigns to do that will keep u going for hours. 
 I doubt that i can ever finish a game like this. The one thign that makes me angry is how usless 
 3rd person is. Im excited to get furthher in this game and get a horse!
  
  Edit- Now that ive played thisg ame for over 30 hours i can add to my review. There isent as many 
 things in this game as i expected, but it still lasts long and hasent given me anytime to use Folding@Home, 
 afraid my PS3 might explode on me.
  
  I rate the cover of this game, a 7/10. The cover is detailed but plain. It says OBLIVION and has 
 some ripped fabric, still looks good tho, but not great. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: socoms_greatest
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 2:37 pm PT
Review:  This game is absoulutely stunning. I can now understand why people were so hyped up about this 
 game. It's simply amazing. From the large landscapes to the 100% freedom the creators of this game 
 TRULY do allow you to do ANYTHING you wish. I was stunned that i could pick up literally anything 
 I put the cursor on and drag it about the screen, pick it up, eat it, or stock it and sell it later. 
 To people that are considering buying this game the answer is YES all the way! Its well worth the 
 money and plays wonderfully. Graphics are amazing as well as the sound and the gameplay. Learning 
 curve is not as bad as you might think. It took me roughly 5 min. or so to get familiar with the 
 contols and after that I was on my way to endless possibilities... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xSukox
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  This game tops any other RPG game I have played. The PS3 controller is really well suited for this 
 game, considering I have played it on the PC and x-box. When I first heard the release of this 
 game for the PS3, my mind quickly shifted from buying a 360, to buying a PS3, since I'm more of 
 a SONY fan. The game's controls are really simple and some quests are challenging to the point 
 where you are about to just give up, but because it is so addicting, you just can't. I would be 
 playing right now instead of writing this review, but I have to let others know how much this game 
 rules. If you don't have it, GET IT! Get the #1 PS3 game out (and yes, I love this game better 
 than Resistance) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGSgamer1324
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  Coming from a guy that played the Xbox version for a good 100 hours, Id have to say its just as 
 good. Sadly I have seen a couple of flaws in this port. It pains me to say it, but there are some 
 noticeable glitches. First off there have been times when I was having a sword fight and it would 
 freeze up maybe a second. As for the load times they arent any better than the Xbox. The graphics 
 are a little better but its not noticeable. All in all this game is well done with a free expansion 
 pack. Well worth the money, but if your debating which system to get it for, its completly up to 
 preference. The PS3 has some lags but it fixed most of the Xbox glitches. If I had to choose again 
 I would get the Xbox version, but the free expansion pack caught my interest that and Im a sony 
 fanboy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kingoffheg
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2007 10:54 am PT
Review:  This is the best game on the PS3 so far!! It's true this is a port but it's amazing and it outdoes 
 the original in every possible way!! It looks better and it loads faster, this is the best port 
 ever!!!
  This is a must-buy for sure for all PS3 owners and even those who don't have a PS3, this game lasts 
 for hundreds of hours but before you buy it you must be certain that you'll like the game, watch 
 videos and look at screenshots before purchasing!
  Oh I forgot, this includes the Nine Knights expansion which is good and it's been said that the 
 new expansion is coming out for the PS3 later this year!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Limited2chaos
Rating: 9.8
Date: Mar 21, 2007 12:06 am PT
Review:  The game is one-of-a-kind, there is no other game out on the market right now that can even come 
 close to this. Minor gaps here and there (could have more types of enemies, items that are useful, 
 armor, weapons, ect...) , the storyline could be a little deeper, but the freedom that it offers, 
 in my opinion, takes the game above all that. Once you start doing certain quests, you think of 
 doing something else, and keep progressing on tangents until hours of your life have melted away 
 (not saying thats a good thing) . With the massive amounts of customization that you can do to you 
 characters appearance, class, skills, weapons, armor, ect, it gives the player the ability break 
 out of the habit of seeing the same old Rpg style and characters, and explore the what if factor 
 so many hardcore Rpg'ers have been craving. Short of a few loose screws here and there, this game 
 could best game of the year on any platform for years to come. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KdR_Hayabusa
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 4:47 pm PT
Review:  its just what i expected or even better
  the graphics looks great so pretty ... *drools*
  i dont know how the 360 or pc is like cuzz i dont have a 360 and my comp is weak
  but for a ps3 
 its just great ,the game play is great, also the controls great , the lighting is really nice
 
  when your creating the character its kinda laggy when ur scrolling really fast ans stuff kinda 
 werid
  to bad its not 1080p its only 720p but still looks almost better than 1080p bethesda made a great 
 job on the graphics. soo real.
  buts its fantastic i been waiting its well worth it!
  thanks Bethesda Softworks for making a ps3 version 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamefan
Rating: 9.6
Date: Mar 20, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  I'm playing the ps3 version right now and it looks improved since the PC and 360 version. If you 
 didn't play it too much for 360 or PC..... get it for ps3. There's some things you'll see a difference 
 in, for example: Loading times are really cut down and graphics are enhanced. I loved this game 
 for 360, I played it first as a Nord warrior, but when I heard this was coming for the ps3, I traded 
 the 360 version in and waited for this one to come. Now that it's here with Knights of the nine 
 added along with more extras.... I'm one happy gamer. :) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: henry4th
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2007 9:58 am PT
Review:  All the praises that could be said have already been said, all the glories that could be given 
 have already been showered upon it.
  
  So, I'm going to give warnings to PS3 brothers and sisters, who may actually not like the game.
 
  
  I for one, admire the production value, the beautiful game worlds in the game, but its crappy 3rd 
 person annimation, boring 1st person view (since you can't see your own equipment in first person 
 view, then why even play an RPG?) , slow combat, open-ended nature really put me off of the game.
 
  
  So yes, the game is great for some poeple, but for others like me, who thinks first person view 
 is lame for an RPG, and doesn't care much about open ended games, may not like it that much. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
