-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Golden Compass
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/thegoldencompass/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to play as a giant polar bear.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Lousy timed button-pressing sequences make up the bulk of gameplay.
 Tedious busywork.
 Terrible platforming elements are capped by a bad camera and loose controls.
 Inferior production values.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 11, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 4.2, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 4.4, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Shiny
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Dec 4, 2007
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Golden Compass is just another family-friendly film cash-in with few redeeming qualities.

  The Golden Compass for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 owes a lot to 2005's The Chronicles of Narnia. 
 Like Narnia, it is a game based on a film based on a fantasy novel, and it even goes so far as 
 to summarily lift hunks of gameplay directly from the earlier title. Yet for some reason, the designers 
 picked all of the bad stuff while leaving behind the good. The result is a muddled mishmash of 
 gameplay ideas that lacks focus and certainly lacks any sense of fun.  

           When playing, be sure to don a warm sweater.      

  If you aren't familiar with the 
 accompanying film, or the Philip Pullman novel on which it's based, you will probably be rather 
 confused by the game. As Lyra Belacqua, you seek to save your friend Roger from the grasp of evil 
 folkloric kidnappers known as Gobblers. Lyra is accompanied by her daemon Pantalaimon (or Pan, 
 for short) , who is the physical embodiment of Lyra's soul, and she is occasionally joined by a 
 hulking armored polar bear named Iorek. Lyra also possesses an instrument called an alethiometer -- the 
 golden compass of the title -- which can answer any question that she asks it. You'll figure out 
 what's going on in bits and pieces and with the help of short clips from the Golden Compass film. 
 Yet you'll likely never care about Lyra or her companions, and important chunks of exposition are 
 completely glossed over, leaving you wondering what's going on or why you should care.  

  Gameplay is a mess. There are a lot of ideas at work here, but none of them pan out all that well. 
 First up: exploration. You spend a lot of time roaming about doing busywork, particularly in an 
 insanely long and boring sequence on the Gyptian vessel. The highlight during this level is -- get 
 ready for it -- mopping the deck. In other levels, these tasks may have you hiding under furniture 
 or throwing snowballs, but none of them are interesting, and they are generally sliced up by cutscenes 
 and other gameplay mechanics.  

  Platforming ushers in more mediocrity. Granted, there are some nice ideas here. Lyra can use Pan 
 as a grappling hook and latch on to poles for simplified Prince of Persia-inspired swinging, and 
 the duo can glide for short distances. There are also beams to keep your balance on as you cross, 
 though these moments seem to take forever, since Lyra walks across them so slowly. The controls 
 are super-loose, which is deadly on the dock level -- one of the dumbest platforming sequences ever 
 dreamed up. Not only do the slippery controls make Lyra a pain to maneuver, but you can't manually 
 control the camera, which makes it impossible to judge distance. Even worse, the camera has a tendency 
 to move on its own in the middle of jumps and balancing acts. Expect to reload this level countless 
 times, while cursing the designer who created it.  

  The Golden Compass relies heavily on timed button sequences, already one of the most overused mechanics 
 in modern-day games. Attacked by a giant bee? Press some buttons in the right order. Need to push 
 over an ice bridge? Press some more. Even some boss fights are won in this manner. There is some 
 action buried in here, though it's found mostly in the game's first and final levels. Playing as 
 Iorek, you'll paw through three types of enemies: witches, Tartars, and wolves. Once you build 
 up enough rage by using standard melee attacks, you can pound the ground to do extra damage. You 
 can also hold two buttons down to grab an enemy and fling it around, but for the most part, you 
 can defeat this tiny assortment of foes by mashing a single button. Some levels are capped by boss 
 fights, which aren't hard, but thanks to the lack of player camera control and the shoddy hit detection, 
 they're plenty annoying.  

  There are still more elements at play. Sometimes Lyra will try to deceive other characters, which 
 requires you to perform a set of minigames. Some of these games function properly, at least, such 
 as one where you push the left analog stick in a whack-a-mole variant. Others are simply terrible 
 and are so poorly explained that you may have no clue how the minigames even work the first few 
 times they appear. There's also the matter of the golden compass itself. Lyra can ask it questions, 
 and the accompanying minigame consists of keeping a reticle centered on the compass with the left 
 analog stick while executing (you guessed it!) another timed button-pressing sequence.  

           Every exercise the game throws at you is pointless.      

  Even the visuals can't 
 capture the fantasy magic of the film or novels. Animations and environments are crude, textures 
 are muddy, and there is absolutely no imagination to be found in the bland art design. There are 
 also some weird graphical bugs, such as blinking polygons and pixelated seams. Sound fares no better. 
 The musical score is fine, if unmemorable, but most sound effects are either embarrassingly clunky 
 or missing entirely. The voice acting is serviceable, but there are times when the same character 
 will talk over his or her own dialogue.  

  Initially, the wide variety of gameplay elements make it seem like there's going to be a lot to 
 do in The Golden Compass. Unfortunately, most of these facets are too repetitive, too frustrating, 
 or too boring to keep anyone's interest, young or old. So, perhaps unsurprisingly, the game is 
 just the latest in a string of movie tie-ins that sacrifice good gameplay for the sake of a quick 
 buck.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (2 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Frantii
Rating: 2
Date: Mar 5, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  I got this game with my PS3 Bundle (there was a choice of either this or Ratatouille so, you know 
 lol) , anyway, im just glad I got UNCHARTED aswell. The Golden Compass.
  What can I say? Bad graphics, especially for a PS3 and bad Gameplay.
  Basicly, your just going 
 around doing these repetative Minigames. Like, move the green ball and dodge the red balls.
  Try to catch the Red Balls etc. Very boring.
  
  And the "moving around? gameplay? BOOOOORRIIIIIINNNGGGGGG.
 
  Honestly, if they really thought using the Ferrit to attack things, and to grab hold of it to 
 glide, was really a good idea then boy we're they wrong!
  
  So, yeah.
  Don't get this.
  PLEASE, save your money for something better lol.
  
  Gameplay: 1.0/10
  Sound: 3.0/10
  Graphics: 
 0.1/10
  Controlls: 5/10
  
  So, yeah. Don't get it. You can buy alot better than The Golden Compass. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 4
Date: Dec 29, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  First it was called Northen Lights then when they were making the film they changed the name to 
 The Golden Compass.
  If you have read the book you'll know most of the charcters like Lyra, Pan, Roger or Iorek. If 
 seen the movie you'll find this game really broken with bad control quality and dead graphics like 
 The Chronicles of Narina which was anathor broken game that load people brought and found out that 
 it was awful to them.
  Gameplay really stright foward when you playing as Lyra and Pan. Pan can change to other animals 
 like Hawk, or Sloth or WildCat to get to high places or climbing, also there are also itmes to 
 collect to evade or deceive enemies where there a few mini games while your talking to a person 
 in oirder to move on or get somting rare. There is also compass work where you have to find what 
 everyone esle is upto kinda like reading peoples minds but The Alethiometer is a tool to solve 
 puzzles and reconniseing symbols where ever you go to look for clues, depending if its easy or 
 hard. The goal is to focus the circle of light is you either get the symbols right or wrong. Play 
 Irorex is very easy to get the hang og your mostly defending from enemies if you get hit and slashing 
 enemies with your bare hands.
  The graphics look abit dull specially from SEGA wich have once again messed up anathor game like 
 Sonic the Hedeghog on 360 or PS3. Sounding your mostly hearing the same music and same speeches 
 from the charcters which is annoying if your playing it. I only read the book and found this game 
 really bad games based on movies were always this bad on games, I wouldn't recommend getting this 
 game. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
