-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Godfather: The Don's Edition
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/thegodfather/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The game makes great use of the film license.
 plenty of challenging, multitiered missions to keep you busy.
 fun combat and interrogation system.
 you can explore an expansive map of 1940s New York, with no load times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Graphics leave a bit to be desired.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Mar 20, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7.6
Critic Score: 7.2, 33 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 781 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Historic Action Adventure
Date: Mar 20, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Don's Edition works a smattering of new content into The Godfather with good results, but it's 
 not quite worth another look if you've played previous versions. 

   The Godfather  is widely regarded as one of the greatest films of all time. So when Electronic 
 Arts announced that it was making a game based on the license, though it made sense as a business 
 venture, it also seemed risky to adapt such a beloved and well-known story to a video game. That 
 risk paid off with the PlayStation 2, PC, Xbox, and Xbox 360 versions of the game, and now the 
 game has been released for the PlayStation 3 in the form of The Godfather: The Don's Edition. There 
 are several minor but noticeable enhancements and gameplay tweaks in the PS3 version of the game, 
 but for the most part, this is the same game that was released a year earlier on other platforms. 
 That said, The Godfather: The Don's Edition is still a satisfying, lengthy action adventure game, 
 and more importantly, it remains faithful to the classic film while also creating a compelling 
 story of its own.  

          Intimidating people is as fun as ever in The Don's Edition.     

  The Godfather: The 
 Don's Edition is the same game that previously came out on the Xbox 360 albeit with a few slight 
 changes. There are a handful of new missions, a few new locations, and many modified interiors. 
 The PlayStation 3 game also makes very limited use of the Sixaxis' motion-control feature. Aside 
 from those few minor differences, The Don's Edition provides the same gameplay that previous versions 
 of the game provided.  

  The Godfather puts you in the role of a peripheral character that didn't appear in the film but 
 nevertheless played a critical role in the story. While the character is by no means an official 
 write-in from Mario Puzo or Francis Ford Coppola, he meshes well with the rest of the story, a 
 large part of which is taken directly from the film. You begin the game by watching your father 
 get gunned down in the streets by rival mobsters. Then you flash forward a few years to the wedding 
 scene from the opening of the film, where your mother is asking the Don to take you under his wing 
 and offer you work. So the Don sends the imposing Luca Brasi to look after you and teach you how 
 to be a mobster.  

  You start off as an unofficial enforcer for the Corleone family, which means your job is to muscle 
 merchants into paying you protection money. You do this by walking into a store and talking to 
 the owner. Usually the owners won't simply give in, but you can intimidate them by smashing up 
 their stores (or their faces) until they start to see things your way. Sometimes the business owners 
 will ask you to do a favor for them in exchange for a cut of the business. You might have to off 
 a drug dealer who is scaring customers away from a bakery or take out a troublemaker who refuses 
 to leave a hotel. These favor missions bring some welcome variety to the extortion game, but they're 
 so simple and easy that they'll hardly have any effect on the way you play the game. Once you take 
 over a business, you get a payout each week, and there are dozens of shops you can shake down all 
 throughout the five boroughs of New York. Some stores are fronts for illegal rackets, such as brothels, 
 gambling dens, and illegitimate importing operations, and you can buy out these rackets to further 
 increase your weekly income.  

          Eventually you'll become a made man, but the game doesn't end there.     

  But extorting 
 businesses and taking over rackets isn't all there is to do. There are plenty of story missions 
 that you'll pick up as you play. Some missions are taken directly from the movie. Most of these 
 scenes are very faithfully re-created for the game, and it's great to be able to take part in some 
 of the most memorable moments from the film, such as Sonny's ambush at the toll plaza and the assassinations 
 of the dons intercut with scenes from the baptism of Michael Corleone's niece. In fact, the best 
 part of The Godfather is that it handles the source material respectfully and offers enough new 
 content to make it feel like more than just a by-the-numbers adaptation of the movie.  

  In addition to the characters, the city of New York has been rendered in detail, and you can spot 
 specific scenes from the film as you travel the streets of Little Italy, Brooklyn, Midtown, Hell's 
 Kitchen, and New Jersey. For the PlayStation 3 version of the game, the city was reworked to make 
 getting around town much easier. You still need to use the map quite often, but you'll run into 
 fewer dead-end streets this time around. There are a lot of indoor areas in the game as well, which 
 you can freely enter without any load times. The PS3 version features improved interiors that are 
 more varied than in previous versions of the game. So while you'll still see the same bakery or 
 hotel lobby throughout the city, you'll also see some unique interiors that will help alleviate 
 that sense of dj vu.     

  The Godfather borrows heavily from the Grand Theft Auto series of games, so you can expect the 
 same senseless violence and absurd mayhem for which those games are known. You can steal cars, 
 run down pedestrians, shoot people at random, and evade the police. As you commit crimes, your 
 heat gauge increases, and anywhere from one to five badge icons will appear on the screen to indicate 
 how badly the cops want to take you down. If you're caught, you're simply killed, which isn't such 
 a big deal because you can be revived at the nearest hospital for a small fee. It's easy to avoid 
 the police, and you can bribe them if you don't feel up for a chase. In fact, in the PS3 version 
 of the game, you can pay the police to fight alongside you.  

          The fire and explosion effects look good on the PlayStation 3.     

  Some missions 
 are quite difficult because you may have to face dozens of mobsters all by yourself. However, you 
 can recruit lower-ranking mobsters to be part of your crew. These men will follow you around and 
 provide backup in gunfights or act as triggermen while you drive. As you ascend in rank within 
 the Corleone family, you'll be able to recruit better and better men to fill out your crew. New 
 to the Wii and PlayStation 3 versions of the game is the hit squad. Once you become an associate, 
 you can call in a hit squad of four guys to follow you around and lend some muscle to your cause. 
 The hit squad can get expensive, but you'll usually have cash to burn so cost rarely becomes an 
 issue when it comes to hiring henchmen. The artificial intelligence of your allies is relatively 
 good, and you'll definitely notice a difference having a crew around. It still doesn't take much 
 to get your crew -- or yourself -- killed. You can find health tonics from time to time, but you'll 
 need to take cover and plan your attack wisely if you want to live.  

  The gunplay in The Godfather is simple but fun. You can lock on to enemies with the press of a 
 button, and you can duck or back up against a wall for cover. The guns in the game range from a 
 .38 special revolver to a tommy gun and a snub-nosed shotgun. There's also a variety of other weapons, 
 including Molotov cocktails, sticks of dynamite, garrote wires, and lead pipes. All of the guns 
 can be upgraded at back-alley arms dealers. You can also carry all of these weapons at the same 
 time, effectively turning yourself into a one-mobster army. There are more than 40 scripted execution 
 moves as well, and you're rewarded for your brutality in the form of respect.  

  If you prefer to get your hands dirty, you can simply beat the life out of anyone you encounter. 
 You lock on with the L1 button and then throw punches with the right analog stick. The game also 
 uses the Sixaxis motion-sensing features to let you slam opponents into walls or even head-butt 
 them by quickly moving the controller away from or toward yourself, respectively.  

  As you indiscriminately waste people, extort businesses, and complete missions, you'll earn respect 
 points. When you earn enough respect, you level up, so to speak. You can also distribute skill 
 points to learn new abilities and improve your stats. The character-development system has been 
 completely redone for this version of the game, and it allows for much more flexibility in how 
 you strengthen your character. As you level up your character in various parameters, you earn bonuses 
 and you can also unlock new skills. You can learn useful tricks, such as how to set a car bomb, 
 or you can just increase your health or make it cheaper to bribe police. These bonuses, along with 
 the upgraded weapons, help tremendously later in the game when the missions become more difficult. 

  The PlayStation 3 version of The Godfather is not one of the better looking PlayStation 3 games 
 in high definition, and it's more underwhelming in standard definition. There are some special 
 lighting effects and shinier surfaces in The Don's Edition but not enough to make them stand out 
 next to other PlayStation 3 games. There are also some nice fire and explosion effects. Although 
 the city of New York looks and feels alive with activity, you'll still see blurry surfaces, jerky 
 animations, and clipping. The frame rate keeps pace fairly well and never drops to critical levels. 
 Overall, the game isn't a complete eyesore, but it's not too pretty either. It still works mostly 
 because of the way it authentically re-creates the look and feel of the film, but there are very 
 few technically impressive moments in the game.  

          There are plenty of missions to keep you busy, but sometimes you just want to cause a little 
 mayhem.     

  With the sheer number of businesses to extort and missions to complete, you can easily spend 20 
 hours working your way up through the ranks and eliminating other families before finally becoming 
 the Don of New York City. Beyond that, there are also some Corleone Challenges, which are one-off 
 missions taken from the game that you can complete as quickly as possible, and then you can upload 
 your time to an online leaderboard.  

  If you're a fan of the film, you'll appreciate the way The Godfather: The Don's Edition pays tribute 
 to the movie. Even if you've never seen the film, the satisfying combat and challenging missions 
 make this game worth playing. However, if you've already played other versions of The Godfather, 
 there's no compelling reason to pay full price for what is essentially the exact same game. The 
 slightly tweaked controls and added content are nice, but those things alone aren't enough to make 
 this game worth another look. If you haven't played the game before and are looking for an action 
 adventure game for the PlayStation 3, The Godfather: The Don's Edition certainly fits the bill. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: LondonCasual
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 2, 2008 4:09 am PT
Review:  Anyone who says the PS3 version is no different to the PS2 version is completely wrong. Graphically 
 it is far superior and looks fantastic on a large high def screen. The dynamic weather effects 
 look great, the buildings, character models, vehicles and insides of buildings look lovely (ok 
 not up to the same standard as COD4 or Uncharted but much much better than the PS2, which I think 
 is what most people who are fans of the PS2 version want to know. Is it worth upgrading if you 
 have already played the PS2 version? definitely. The combat animations and explosions are absolutely 
 stunning. The audio has been improved big time as well (both music and surround effects) . The game 
 is bigger than the original and a tougher challenge. I play this game a lot and like the fact that 
 there are two strategies you can follow e. g. all out combat using the enforcer style or by blackmail 
 and subterfuge using the operator path. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hanslacher54
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 1, 2008 1:47 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather is a great game but without some of the flaws it could have been even better. You 
 would think that you would take control of Michael Corleone but instead you create your own mobster. 
 It doesn't follow the story that much. It has parts from the movie like Sonny being shot to death, 
 the restaurant scene, and the killing of all the other Dons, but most of it is a separate story. 
 So like I said, you create your own mobster and move your way up in the family. The graphics for 
 the most part are not that good, but the faces of the actors from the film and the landmark buildings 
 of New York look incredible. The voice acting is also very good. It sounds like the actors from 
 the film. But the there are two things that stand out about The Godfather: the escorting and the 
 RPG system. You escort businesses to earn money. You get your share of the money every week. The 
 bigger you are in the family the more money you get. The RPG system is amazing. You have a respect 
 meter. Every time it fills up all the way to the right you can choose a stat to level up. These 
 range from speed, health, aim, power, escorting, taking less heat, and many more. Also there are 
 two categories: street smarts and the beating-the-crap-out-of-people one. You will get perks for 
 raising your stats in these. Some of these perks are unlimited ammo and pistol whip. That about 
 wraps it up for this review. The Godfather may not be as good as GTA 4, but has some new interesting 
 ideas make it stand out from other GTA clones. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: femami13
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 21, 2008 11:32 am PT
Review:  When i first got this game i knew that i was gonna like it and i was right, this game is perfect 
 for me first of all its a mafia game sort of like all the GTA games , its based in the 1940, s , 
 you can rob cars extort busineses, dress your guy up like you want and eventualy become a mafia 
 Don. The graphics are good and the game-play is awesome and the way you shoot is allot like Grand 
 Theft Auto. The Godfather the Dons edition will keep you busy for hours theirs allot of missions 
 and allot of rackets and busineses to extort you will be glued to your t. v for 
 
  
  I Give this game a ten because i feel that their is no game like it i recomend
  this game to people who like the GTA games , The Godfather and shooting  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nicholai69
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jul 13, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather, seen by most as the perfect movie, the penultimate of Crime Drama's and while i 
 see it too being very much a fantastic movie I myself prefer Goodfella's to be honest lol :P.
 
  But enough about the movie.... well its a lil hard to stray too far since The Godfather game is 
 a retelling of the first movie except from a different point view.
  You play as your own character (though canonly called Aldo Trapani) through the appearance and 
 dress sense though the dialoque and voice is always the same no matter how grotesque or with how 
 big a nose you make him have sadly. A simple but promising opening leads you to become part of 
 the Corleone Family Mafia as initially an Enforcer but as the story goes one you will rise through 
 the ranks for more bonuses.
  The story as i said before is the same as the one from the first movie though seen from your perspective 
 and can lead to explain certain situations and even reveal to you just who did that and who did 
 this... and of course all the hidden goings in the movie was executed by you, which really helps 
 expand the overall story and indeed make it much easier to understand.
  Like the movie it starts from Don Vito's daughters wedding straight to Michael Corleone's daughters 
 christining. The story itself though is surprisingly short though on its own will still last you 
 longer than the two and a half hours or so the movie was.
  The storys missions are all very varied and most of the time can find key story characters tagging 
 along to help out and really gives you the feeling that there really at your side. So overall the 
 missions are very fun and the story counts on if you enjoyed the movie or more or less if your 
 totally ret@rded or not cause if you didn't enjoy the Godfather you seriously deserve to have your 
 eyes and ears dipped in acid... nuff said :P.
  
  The gameplay is similiar to most sandbox games these days, you can do what you want, kill who you 
 want, steal whatever car you want ect. Though The Godfather manages to give you much more freedom 
 and power than say the GTA series. A keen example is the ability to bribe the cops to stay of your 
 tail and look the other way when you decide to make things a little messy, even if you happen to 
 be in conflict with a rival mafia family they may even join the fight to help. Though without the 
 bribes losing your 'heat' is still similiar to other sandbox games, the best way though is to at 
 least hide out at one of your many purchasable safehouses let the heat die down to a low minimum 
 then bribe a patrol. If however it gets too much and you find yourself dieing or being busted that 
 too isn't much of a problem, being a Corleone mobster really does have benefits afterall and you 
 will find yourself spawning back at a family owned hospital or General Hospital with all your weapons 
 right were u left em though a small fee being taken for their troubles but still only a small fee. 
 Getting arrested while a little clunky and hard to predict fortunantly won't happen all that often 
 and also leaves you with your weapons equipped.
  
  Though besides the short story there is a massive amount of content available to try out, the main 
 focus is taking over business and rackets which so far after about 40 of them hasn't got old. It's 
 simple enough, you search for a rival family owned business walk inside or maybe shoot your way 
 in to find the manager and try to 'persuade' him to pay the Corleones some tribute. How you 'persuade' 
 him/her is surprisingly varied and most of the different managers have there own weak spot to really 
 letting them know you mean some serious business. Be it just beating him/her up, beating up some 
 of their customers, trashing the place, aiming a firearm directly at there forehead or if your 
 lucky enough maybe a small favor.
  Still besides that theirs still favors to complete for the family, rival family Capo's to assassinate, 
 trucks to hijack for drug money, factorys to take over and rival mafia compounds to blow up.
  Now i know i seem to be referencing the 'rival mafia familys' alot but thats because they are an 
 important part of the gameplay. Theres 5 families in total including the Corleones each wiith there 
 own turf and distincitive coloured uniforms. Initially they all seem peaceful to each other, but 
 of course deep down each family is all after the same thing, complete control of 1950s New York. 
 So rampage through enough of their factorys or take over so many business' they'll eventually have 
 enough and a mob war will begin between you and the family who you've most disrupted.
  The mob wars last a total of 40 minutes and of course set the gang your against to hostile and 
 can expect to find them hunting you down with drive bys and blowing up your business'. You too 
 can do the same with blowing up one of their business' securing victory on your behalf, but sometimes 
 you may want to let it last a little longer just to have serious fun between the Corleone's raging 
 with whoever.
  How all of this impressivly varied content plays though is like your standard 3rd person shooter. 
 You can run/sprint and move while crouching to use a stealthier approach, take cover behinds objects 
 and of course have the choice between an auto aim or free aim, so nothing new there. Though the 
 melee is incredibly fun with a pretty deep set-up, you use the analog stick to swing your punchs 
 in whatever direction, such as maybe holding back then pushing up will release a charge punch. 
 The sixaxis comes into play aswell with say pushing someone to there knee's or throwing them over 
 the ledge so all n all the melee is one of the best yet to appear in a sandbox game. The vehicles 
 though only consist of cars, which is understandable considering the times, but New York is really 
 rather big and can be pretty annoying to do so much driving, espeically with no radio stations 
 to listen to. There is a driver system you can call from any phone in your business' but he will 
 only take you to your safehouses. Maybe a bus mechanic much like GTA4s taxi system would of really 
 helped the game have a more faster pace for getting around.
  You may also eventually start recruiting other Corleone gang members to tag along to help with 
 whatever be it with the business or maybe to perform a bank heist. You'll also need them for any 
 of your drive by's since you have no way to shoot out of your car on your own.
  
  Another impressive addition is the respect meter, which is essentially your way of leveling up 
 and gaining new skills be it cheaper bribes for the cops to stronger melee attacks. With more respect 
 though comes more power around the city, you have the ability to talk to 'everyone' in New York 
 and while at first they all seem pretty disgusted at you after a few promotions later and respect 
 earned they won't stop with the complements and apologise for maybe walking into you and such. 
 Another handy perk with the respect is with taking over business' with so much respect the managers 
 won't even put up a fight and just accept there fate and simply agree to paying a sum to the Corleone's.
 
  
  The sound is rather good with exceptional voice acting from all and mood setting deppresion era 
 soundtrack to listen to throughout.
  
  The main faults with me in the game is the lack of weapons (a nice amount of upgrades for each of 
 your firearms does soften it) and also from the graphics.... which I've admitted before graphics 
 don't bother me all that much but for a ps3 game it is seriously lacking.
  
  Still that doesn't match the brilliant customisation options for your character or the sheer amount 
 of side missions available.
  Though admittedly this is the first alteration of the Godfather game I have played so I can't judge 
 whether or not 7.6 is a fair score but if you haven't played any so far this is indeed a very fun 
 game that does begin to grow on you as you play much like a funguss.
  Final Score:8.9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: codemaster44
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 23, 2008 5:53 pm PT
Review:  This was actually the first game i purchased for the ps3, i had rented several others but this 
 was the first that i actually enjoyed enough to purchase. Everything in the dons edition has been 
 improved from the graphics to extorting money from business owners. There is so much to do in this 
 game, robbing banks, robbing trucks, extorting businesses, taking over rackets, following the very 
 enjoyable storyline or participating in one of the many many side missions that are throughout 
 this game. The are plenty of weapons in this game to find and upgrade although the upgrades are 
 expensive and each upgrade costs quiet a bit. The map in this game is extremely useful, the map 
 shows everything in this game and the streets and way points are vary easy to follow. The city 
 of New York seems alive and everyone seems like they are trying to get somewhere, the city is massive 
 and broken in several parts which each rival family controlling a part of the city. The family 
 you are part of the corleone family is headquartered in little Italy and throughout the game you 
 will move up the ranks of the corleone family eventually becoming the don of New York. By the time 
 you become the don you have pretty much extorted all the businesses and done everything in the 
 game that there is to do.
  
  This was a great game and very closely follows the original story in the The godfather. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonygamerchick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 30, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I had this for the PS2 as well... and like an idiot I thought for sure here would be some improvement 
 graphics wise. Slightly (explosions look a helluva lot better, that's for sure) but the characters 
 seem about the same, maybe smoothed out more.
  
  Aside from that The Godfather is a fun game that gets you involved with one of my favorite movies/books 
 of all time and one of the best created families of all time, The Corleone's. 
  
  I love everything Mafia and this game was right up my alley. The controls are fluid, even the use 
 of the sixaxis controllers brings an element of "hey, I just tossed that guy in front of the bus" 
 reality.
  
  There's plenty to see and do on the map, though it all does seem a bit repetitive after subsequent 
 hours of game play. They do have little side missions to complete, but again, it's all the same. 
 That's why I list it as a guilty pleasure. I just want to see how much money I can gather.
  
  As a chick player, I love the fact that we get to actually create our character, from moles 
 to scars to outfits, it's our choice... and we can switch it up later... but of course, what you 
 wear affects certain areas of how the NPCs react to you.
  
  The game is plenty of fun, I just wish there was some extra missions after you become Don of NYC. 
 More control over your crew or something. Because once it's beat... it's beat.
  
  Definitely a guilty pleasure, not sure it's a must have for the PS3. But a fun game none-the-less. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:07 pm PT
Review:  This game is based on the famous movie The Godfather. You play a young man whose father is killed 
 by a rival mob boss. You join the Corleone family and you work your way up the ranks. You build 
 up and your character as you do missions and various tasks. You play through out the city even 
 take some trips to Brooklyn and Jersey. There are business that you take over to increase the money 
 you make. All the while increasing your respect so that you can build up your character. The one 
 thing you will notice about this game is that you will die.. a lot. There are times where the enemies 
 will basically over power you and kill you. A new feature to this game is the ability to call in 
 a four man team to help you out with the more difficult missions. They end up killing everybody 
 so be careful because sometimes you need to speak to people. The graphics on this game are not 
 much better then on the other systems. I really think that this game is a lot of fun. Running around 
 doing missions and shooting people in a video game can be fun like GTA. Part of the problem with 
 this game is that there is nothing new here. Its the same game done over with a slight tweak on 
 the graphics. The music here is nothing special and the driving can be a pain. There is not give 
 here so unless you have enough space you will be crashing and spinning around and such. Fighting 
 is interesting in this game in that you can beat guys up easily sometimes and then sometimes you 
 cannot. Shooting is simple with the usual press the button on the enemy and firing. The game tends 
 to have you run out of ammo at the best times as well as reloading when you are in the middle of 
 a fire fight. Wonderful I know. Guys that rated the godfather good or below are crazy. It is easily 
 one of the top 5 five games ever. Those of you who like the films will love this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gameman45
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 5:09 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather Don's Edition once again puts you in the shoes of a 1940's mobster struggling with 
 his destiny in the Corleone Family. After the exciting opening scene and the semi-detailed character 
 creation your on your way to a 40 hour+ Unforgettable experience. After being saved from a sure 
 death from Luca Brasi he shows you the ropes on Extorting, shooting, fighting and basically doing 
 the Don's dirty work. After that your on your way. 
  
  The City is huge with the major parts of New York including Midtown, Hell's Kitchen, LITTLE ITALY, 
 Brooklyn and even New Jersey. each part is controlled by a family from the original motion picture. 
 You eventually start taking over businesses and back room casino's and brothels to make the family 
 and YOU profit. But watch out! Killing other family's men may gain you respect but also heat and 
 vendetta levels with the rival family's. 
  
  Gameplay- One of the best movie games to date. When you go to watch the movie again you almost 
 find yourself looking for your character because he was so well implemented into the story that 
 you feel he was always there. Work your way up through the ranks to eventually become Don! However 
 there are two words you ask yourself after u become Don "Now what?" Yep you guest it, its one of 
 those games. After you become Don theres really nothing left to do. You have no sense of responsibility 
 even though you should after all your in charge of NYC.
  
  Sound- Amazing!!! Absolutely Amazing. Almost all the original cast does the voices like James Caan 
 (Sonny) Robert Duvall (Tom) and some of Marlon Brando as he was dieing. However his voice was so 
 garbled from Lung cancer and emphysema that they had to use someone else for some parts.
  
  Graphics- A let down. One of the games weaker points is its graphics. I always think graphics determine 
 a game and its realism. The game was originally supposed to have much better graphics but they 
 toned them down for some strange reason. It doesn't show off the PS3's or 360's power at all and 
 therefore decreases the value. But they weren't pathetic. It has the best fire effects I've seen 
 to date and alot of other good visuals.
  
  Overall a must have title especially if you love the Godfather. I am really excited for Mafia 2 
 and hopefully it will finally nab the feeling of the mob as the Godfather didn't.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-don123
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Guys that rated the godfather good or below are crazy. It is easilt one of the top 5 five games 
 ever. About five of my friends have played and think the same and 4 of them have now bought it. 
 i dont know how you can live if you think it is not very good. it is much better than all of the 
 grand theft autos and i garuante that it will be better than the new grand theft auto. In the godfather 
 there is so much more you can do but i am not going to say them because if i did i would be here 
 till the 30th century. the gta (grand theft auto) company seriously need to make improvements on 
 the new gta if they want to beat the godfather. i had the godfather on the ps2 and the xbox 360 
 but i have sold both consoles and am now saving up to get the godfather on the ps3. (i completed 
 it on both ps3 and the 360) .
  And also just to let you know i am not usually this into games so that just shows good it is. gamespot 
 cant rate games to save there lives and im sure many will agree. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: afq2846
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 5:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is baed on the famous movie The Godfather. You play a young man whose father is killed 
 by a rival mob boss. You join the corleone family and you work your way up the ranks. You build 
 up and your character as you do missons and various tasks. You play through out the city even take 
 some trips to brooklyn and jersety. There are business that you take over to increase the money 
 you make. All the while increasing your respect so that you can build up your character. The one 
 thing you will notice about this game is that you will die.. a lot. There are times where the enemies 
 will basically over power you and kill you. A new feature to this game is the ability to call in 
 a four man team to help you out with the more difficult missions. They end up killing everybody 
 so be careful because sometimes you need to speak to people. The graphics on this game are not 
 much better then on the other systems. I really think that this game is a lot of fun. Running around 
 doing missions and shooting people in a video game can be fun like GTA. Part of the problem with 
 this game is that there is nothing new here. Its the same game done over with a slight tweak on 
 the graphics. The music here is nothing special and the driving can be a pain. There is not give 
 here so unless you have enough space you will be crashing and spinning around and such. Fighting 
 is interesting in this game in that you can beat guys up easily sometimes and then sometimes you 
 cannot. Shooting is simple with the usual press the button on the enemy and firing. The game tends 
 to have you run out of ammo at the best times as well as reloading when you are in the middle of 
 a fire fight. Wonderful I know. No new missions nothing really new here so I suggest skipping this 
 one unless you have not played this game on any other system. Even so its still a lot of fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bridfi
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 9:50 pm PT
Review:  Although I have never played any of the others, this game is a blast! Mission after mission of 
 intense action, always something around the corner. Move up the ranks in the family, make friends, 
 bribe police, mob wars, killing, what more could you ask for? This game reminds me of Driver 2, 
 a bit more advanced, but not as advanced as the GTA series.
  
  In my opinion, this game is the best game out so far, i have played, for the PS3. This is a must-have, 
 especially if you enjoyed any of the GTA or Driver series games.
  
  PROS:
  
  Intense gameplay, Interrogation system is a blast, Massive map, Plenty of sound effects and music, 
 Create your player, just how you want, Take over and earn income from many business strewn across 
 the map, Good selection of weapons, Hire men to work under you
  
  CONS:
  
  At first, the controls can seem a bit confusing if your used to GTA-style controls. Graphics could 
 be a bit better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: judasblk01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 2, 2008 4:09 pm PT
Review:  All sandbox games can learn a thing or two from the Corleone Family. This game is as addictive 
 as any GTA game out there. The story is just as good as the movie version, if not the same. Trust 
 me, you will die many times before you get it right. Most of the improvements that we are drooling 
 over for GTA IV, were already in this game. You take cover just as well as any shooter out there. 
 The aiming sensitivity is just right and just like Crackdown, you can aim at certain body parts 
 [the groin being the most entertaining] . It's M rating is not as over the top as I would have expected, 
 but the thrill you get from surprising a rival family member {with your upgradable weapons} and 
 watching him splatter off the wall is something you have to witness first hand. The graphics aren't 
 mind blowing, but what sandbox game is? By far the biggest complaint would be the numerous loading 
 screens. I would love to see this game get another chapter added to it, just like the movie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vishakhenzo2005
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 1, 2008 12:15 am PT
Review:  it's better than u think..... i mean the visuals does not meet the required ps3 effects and all... but 
 overall the game rockz.... u have to it play to believe it!! the sixaxis effect is the best.... motion 
 sensing is really good... thats what makes the game meant to be played.... it's a total value for 
 money game thats all i would like to say...
  
  about the visuals-
  good
  gameplay-
  great really superb
  
  value-
  9 out of 10 fr sure
  
  better than previous godfather 
 editions?
  i would say ofcourse yes..... it has a better location.... better animation and gameplay... and ofcourse 
 the sixaxis effect makes it uncomparable with any other role-playing game... so ofcourse it's the 
 best of the series and makes the ps3 owners lucky...
  
  overall-
  well u know no game can be perfect... so i kinda think this ones most nearly perfect... well it's 
 the same godfather story but for people who hasn't experinced the godfather story yet... this is 
 one game they don't want to miss for sure.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hotjim129
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:24 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: The Don's Edition for ps3 is a very good game. It lets you live out some fantasies 
 that you have wanted to do since the movies came out!! However this is the only one I HAVE PLAYED...
 
  
  
  Graphics: Tsk, Tsk. I have to say that it's not bad but I should have expected better for a high-definition 
 ps3 game. But still, it's pretty good graphics. 
  For graphics alone I'd give it a 6.5!
  
  Gameplay: Not bad. I like it actually have to say that I'm impressed. You can do so much in 
 this. AND! You can own up to 5 mansions and have an army of 5 at the most following you. I really 
 like that. Towards the end though it gets pretty boring... I have to say that it kinda depressed 
 me towards the end because I can't do anything more but drive around...
  
  Overall: 8.5 Because of the Graphics, and the fact that towards the end the gameplay isn't that 
 great. But throughout it, it is some of the best gameplay I have ever seen!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 21, 2008 1:40 pm PT
Review:  Of course evryone knows abut the Godfather, from all the movies, the books and now the games. Once 
 again you get to step into the mafia world with the help of the Don's Edition. 
  In cases you have just arrived on planet earth, it feels you in on the story of the first fim and 
 also creates its own story. You will find yourself watching your favorite movie scenes as cut scenes. 
 They still have the amazing voice actors from the movies. Every bit of the intensiety and excitement 
 of the movies are put into this game really good. 
  Good things; It has great shoot outs with tactical, lots of faces you know and remember. Good weapons 
 and also good side missions that will keep you playing. There are also new add ons to spice it 
 up, which is good . They also added some wireless controler moves. Which is cool. You can also 
 add on more from the playstation store. all of which can be bought for 7 bucks. You work your way 
 up tru the ranks of the "family" and become a made man. You can take over area business is just 
 plain fun but also earns you more money, and respect. You can use the money to purchase new clothes, 
 weapon upgrades, homes and etc. 
  Bad Things: 
  the graphics still look like they did on the PS2 version, no big difference in thr graphics department. 
 Can't really understand the whole ideal ofit being online sinse you cant really play with other 
 people or against them, just comparing your scores. No big deal there. No co=op. 
  Over all; if you own a PS3 and you are a fan of the Godfather, why not have this game. Its priced 
 good , around 30-40 bucks. If you are given two choices, sleep with the fishes or buy the game, 
 you want be sorry you bought it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ilovedbzsomuch2
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:07 pm PT
Review:  The best game in series and also one of the best games i've ever played. I just got my ps3 and 
 this was one of the two games I got for it and I started playing it and it was awsome. I have the 
 original and trust me it's way better worth taking another look. I've stayed up all night since 
 playing it. 7.6 sucks it deserves at least a 9.0. So buy this and write more reviews. This is definetly 
 better on ps3 than xbox or wii. So lets go off and shoot some gangsters fellow corleones. Also 
 good luck to all new gamers to this title and to all veterans and merry Christmas. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NukesRUs
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 23, 2007 1:30 pm PT
Review:  ok first off... if youve played the godfather on ps2/xbox then its the exact same thing same storyline 
 only thing is theyve added some new things like the hitmen and so on... nothin really special or 
 impressive and nothin that'll really make you want to play the same story all over again..... the 
 gfx..... exactly the same no better i think they just decided to be lazy and keep the game exactly 
 the same just add a few new bits n pieces and hope nobody notices.... but hey i dont no EA might 
 have had there reasons I have to say though I think they really should add a online multiplayer 
 aspect to this gameit might help. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scottcoates93
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 24, 2007 1:00 pm PT
Review:  You all remember the classic film, The Godfather. It wasn't going to be too long before they brought 
 out a game. They eventually did on PS2 and a few other consoles. But to be honest, it really sucked. 
 The animation was crap and the graphics were the same as a nice looking PS1 game. But when the 
 whole game is transfered onto the PS3 and then been given extra content, the game becomes very 
 enjoyable. The graphics arn't brilliant but they are better. The animation has improved vastly 
 too. But what does it is the effect of the SIXAXIS. You can pull off various executions using the 
 motion sense controller, making your kills more professional. But really, this game will never 
 stand anywhere near to Crackdown on the Xbox 360, so it stands small under Grand Theft Auto. Still, 
 worth buying to pass the time before GTA is released. (This game has really sexy woman in it. Just 
 beuatiful...) Not as good as it should be though.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zouhou
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 30, 2007 3:18 am PT
Review:  god father good movie one of the best movies ever now last month wen my dad picked this game up 
 i wasnt to exited cause its a movie game come on we all no they suck but i was wrong this game 
 is addicting u use the anolgs sticks to throw punch sixaxsis controls to throw head but and elbow 
 and throw pepole off cliffs. the game stays true to the movie and u can customize ur chracters 
 face and clothes and the wepons r great. bad somtimes hard to follow the gang techniquies. and 
 its hard to pay down vendatta gang heat but still if u like god father get this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Alex_grist
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jul 22, 2007 7:59 am PT
Review:  The Godfather is a long game which isn't repetitive neither bad, I believe that because the new 
 GTA was coming out later 2007 this was the GTA of PS3 for its time.
  
  If your into Games like GTA then you'll love this!
  
  Gang wars, car theft and just plain fist 
 fighting.
  
  I've personally completed this game 2 times and you always notice something different.
  
  The 
 graphics aren't great but the gameplay makes up for that and a well thought story line too.
  
  If you like a game which has a point to it then this is a great game to have before the release 
 of GTA IV but that doesn't mean to say that there wont be another Godfather sequel.
  
  Fast paced game with a good range of weapons and a good range of team work.
  
  The opportunity 
 of taking over businesses is great as this allows you to earn your way to be an ultimate gang member! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darcwake
Rating: 7.6
Date: Jul 3, 2007 3:44 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: Don's Edition is a pretty good game actually. Don't let GameSpot's screenshots fool 
 you.
  
  One of the best parts of the game is that you can travel through a great 1940's New York. WITHOUT 
 ANY LOADTIMES! Travelling through New York without any loadtimes, by foot or by car, is loads of 
 fun! No pun intended.
  
  Many of the missions in the game are loads of fun too. One of the best features of the game is 
 extorting shop owners. The dialogue is kinda corney but that's the 40s for you.
  
  It is also really fun how you can travel to different sections of New York also (Brooklyn, New 
 Jersey, etc.) In these sections there are family leaders that you can beat in these huge warhouses. 
 These missions are very fun and entertaining but kind of on the hard side.
  
  This game is just like the Playstation 2 version.. bit by bit.
  The only difference I think is 
 the SIXAXIS controls. Which I don't think improved the game that much. It was kind of hard to use 
 the first half of the game, but you get used to it. This game is good for anyone who loves any 
 of the Grand Theft Auto games. I would recommend that you rent it first, before you buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Stupidity101
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 25, 2007 7:52 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather does nothing more than keep you at the edge of your seat. Whether it be taking over 
 a rival families warehouse or compound to assassinating a don. This is obviously been the best 
 game ive ever played, and better yet.... IT LASTS. My personal favorites are simply taking over 
 all of the cities and of course the feeling of winning a mob war. But the game itself has great 
 graphics and a hell of a lot of detail, and on a 1 to 10 scale I give this game a 43.... its great, 
 suspenseful, empowering, riveting, pulsating, exquisite, and all around perfecto. BUY IT NOW 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nerkle01
Rating: 8.9
Date: Jun 25, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  This game is one of the best games out for ps3. This game is pretty long if you can do everything 
 it takes to become The Don Of N. Y. C. There are alot of things to do such as extort or take over 
 businesses and warehouses. You can also take over and own compounds. There are 5 compounds; 1 for 
 each family; and to own and take over them you have to kill some enemy family members and make 
 your way inside of the compound and then blow up both buildings. There are many rackets to take 
 over. All the firearms in the game can be upgraded 3 times. there are weapons such as wooden bats 
 , tommyguns , lead pipes , shotguns , 3 different types of pistols , dynamite , moltov cocktails 
 , bombs, a garrote wire , and of course your fists. You can hire mobsters to fight on your side 
 or hire a hit crew. Mobsters can ride in your car but the hit crews you hire can't. The map is 
 pretty big. You can explore some parts of New Jersey, Brooklyn, N. Y. C. and Manhattan. You can also 
 drive cars and trucks. Nothing else. This game is awesome. TRY IT!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: romad64
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 22, 2007 1:04 am PT
Review:  This game is absolutely pure fun. It is definately a game to get. EA does a great job at capturing 
 the godfather universe and this is a game they should consider making sequals to.
  
  Gameplay- The gameplay is exactly like gta but is able to make itself standout. The story is the 
 biggest part of the game. EA does do a good job at capturing those godfather moments and they do 
 a great job at making sure your created character fits into the story. Another big part of the 
 game is the sixaxis controlle for the PS3 version. EA does a great job at utilizing the sixaxis 
 controls. For example, u grab a guy and u want to throw him around? Just swing the controler left 
 or right. U wan't to push him off the ledge? Just thrust the controler forward and let go of the 
 R1 and L1 buttons.
  
  Graphics- The graphics are definately not what u would expect from the PS3, but the gritty graphics 
 do help to capture that classic 1920's-1930's look. The only spectacular visuals in this game are 
 the explosions.
  
  Sound- The sound is pretty standard. I have never encountered any problems with the sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mixu14
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 21, 2007 2:52 am PT
Review:  I hate it, when gamemakers tells us that they are going to optimize the old game exploiting new 
 console powers. Often it's only talk. The Godfather is actually made to Playstation 2, and that's 
 why the problems are so clear in game mechanic and in the graphics. Main characters
  are beautiful, but game's graphic doesn't resist closer look. PS3-version however is the best version 
 of game. EA is excelled in the most important area; that is game mechanic. In PS3-version, there 
 is more missions, driving model is better and in the streets, there is more life. Choosing guns 
 have a new menu, and you can see little amendments here and there. Packet is allround better mass. 
 Smoother screen updating and great draw distance makes playing more comfortable.
  
  Godfather brings more good ideas to GTA-type. Character becomes New York's mafia king, and that 
 player also feel, when you take city to your hands. It's funnier, because you have backup teams, 
 Corleone family. It's easier take mafia houses to your command.
  
  The game doesn't seem take any effects from the movie. Player's road crosses to the first The Godfather. 
 To play Godfather is fun, but events
  tieding to the movie is difficult. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: allenionredline
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 18, 2007 6:45 pm PT
Review:  The game was fun and exciting to play. It gives you a little bit of everything you would expect 
 from an action game. In this game you get to play as beat-em-up, shoot-em-up, go in guns blazing, 
 fists, bats, pipes, bottles, and everything else flying. In my opinion, one of the best games I 
 have ever played and I have played more games than I really care to remember. This game offers 
 a wide spectrum of options as far as weapons, character customization, and outfits. I have found 
 myself playing this game over and over. I am on my third time playing this game from the start 
 to the end. I have only told some of my friends about th game and they are begging me to loan them 
 my copy of the game but there are some games that you just can't let go of, and this is one of 
 those games. I think this could be a money making opportunity. (ha ha ha) All in all, this is old 
 school GTA. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soadfreek409
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 12, 2007 10:35 am PT
Review:  This edition is definitely the best over 360 and WII versions. I've played all three and I was 
 instantly hooked to Don's Edition. The difficulty is perfect. It is easy at times and then very 
 difficult in other times. Obviously bombing a rival gangs compound would be much more difficult 
 than taking over a rival business. This game has the best difficulty I've seen in a while. The 
 graphics are smooth and very eye catching. The content in the game is incredible. Bomb rival businesses 
 and compounds, start mob wars, bribe cops, plant car bombs, many different execution styles, move 
 up in rank from outsider to don and much more. You can literally be any kind of mobster you'd like. 
 Absolutely great game, must buy! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gforce216
Rating: 9.3
Date: Jun 3, 2007 3:20 pm PT
Review:  Hours and hours can be spent extorting businesses. Great game for any PS3 gamer! The fires are 
 very realistic and stunning. Graphics are what are expected for a free roaming game. The ability 
 to do practically anything you want is also amazing. You can go from extorting business to getting 
 hit contracts to following the storyline from the movie. Great voice jobs by all of the characters 
 and probably one of the best put together PS3 games available as of right now. The freedom in this 
 game is incredible and the size of the area is huge. You can go from Brooklyn to New Jersey and 
 it actually takes a long time to get there! This is my most favorite game out of all of my PS3 
 games currently. Everything about this game is excellent and there are no glitches that are even 
 noticeable. If you like GTA or The Godfather series, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biller88
Rating: 8
Date: May 17, 2007 12:23 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: The Don's Edition is the final iteration of the Godfather game that has already 
 been out for a while for the PS2, the PC and the xBox
  Graphically, the game is a far cry from using the full potenital of the PS3. In fact, it seems 
 like a mediocore PS2 game. The explosions seem to have been touched up a bit, but that's about 
 it...
  The Sixaxis controller is also difficult to use, as you may find yourself throwing people off buildings 
 when all you really wanted to do was smack 'em around a bit.
  As far as gameplay, there are so many things to do that it may be a bit difficult to sort through 
 them all, but once you do, you'll find yourself playing for a long long time. The game has so many 
 different options that is stays fun for a long time.
  The recreated character creation allows players the ability to fully customize their gangster, 
 choosing from 3 different types of gangster. This allows a bit more replayability, as you can be 
 Luca Brasci one time around and then take a bit more cautious and creative take the second time.
 
  Overall, Godfather: The Don's Edition barely eclipses the 8.0 level, coming in at 8.0. The game 
 has lots of gameplay, but the graphical parity and the difficulty of using the Sixaxis controller 
 keeps this game from getting any better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snoodthebubble
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 28, 2007 1:04 pm PT
Review:  I was somewhat dubious when I put this on my rental list. After all, isn't this just a rip-off 
 of Grand Theft Auto and, as it's a film port, surely it will be lacking gaming quality.
  
  I mean, how much must it cost to buy the licence and then you're constrained to the plotline from 
 the film, trying desperately to force gamers into following a predetermined path in order to justify 
 the movie experience .
  
  Add to this the fact that this was designed for lesser systems and appears to have been a mere 
 afterthought for the ps3 (which has yet to see any decent quality software released) .
  
  Well, I expected a turkey and, when I received it through the post, thought twice about even trying 
 it.
  
  I'm glad I did!
  
  Firstly, the film tie-in works wonders. I always felt with GTA (apologies, I will reference this 
 against the benchmark over and over and over) that it was trying to be too cinematic. The story 
 lines were so stereotypical that they became farcical (some would say funny) .
  
  At least with this game, the story was justified and, from the opening music playing, you suddenly 
 feel as though you should treat this game with a little more respect. I must admit that this has 
 little to do with the game itself and more to do with the movie!
  
  I started by messing with my character, producing what I thought would be the meanest gangster 
 wannabe to ever climb the mafia pyramid. Strange that the character suddenly bore a startling resemblance 
 to my own mediterranean looks. . . oh well, all part of being in the game!
  
  The graphics aren't great. . . they don't add anything to the game and at no point do you look 
 at them and think 'oh my'. They don't detract from the game either, though. I would say that they've 
 been tarted up enough to ensure that they can't be accused of being pig ugly.
  
  Game play is great. It does everything that GTA does but with a bit more control. Fighting is a 
 lot more realistic, gunplay is far more tactical, frenetic and effective than the loose cannon 
 GTA and I personally feel as though this is either an easier game or better designed (obviously, 
 I prefer the latter) .
  
  Storylines are inkeeping with the film but, outside of the linnear progression, although you have 
 ultimate freedom, it feels as though you have several true sub-missions throughout the game.
  
  By this, I don't mean that there are sub-games like racing, gambling et al on GTA (although 
 these exist) . I mean there are truly other goals that can be pursued such as taking over rackets 
 and creating a true name for yourself in the mafia underworld.
  
  Due to this, I foresee it will take me a while longer to get bored as, once I've had enough of 
 the standard plot, I can get a real sense of achievement through progressing on the other strands 
 .
  
  To sum up, does nothing exceptionally well but replaces GTA's haphazard, over liberal, unorganised 
 world with a concise, directed and yet still wideranging world. A world that actually rewards you 
 for progressing and one that you feel part of. . . not something to please the ordinary, uncultured 
 gamer but to satisfy the discerning, seen it all before and got bored of it gamer.
  
  Well worth at least a play. . . oh yeah, you can use the sixaxis controller to throw the goons 
 around aswell. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Killocity
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 27, 2007 10:30 am PT
Review:  PREFACE AND NOTES FROM THE AUTHOR: This is getting really old. You know, I like the Xbox 360 as 
 much as the next guy, but how many games are game review sites going to edge a .3 or .5 point advantage 
 towards 360 just to appease a larger audience? It's misleading, it's incorrect, and it's irresponsible 
 as a game reviewer to allow your console preference to come in the way of your reviews. I am fortunate 
 enough to own all 3 consoles of the new generation, and let me tell you, if you are expecting the 
 Xbox 360 version of this game to top the PS3 version, you are going to be sorely disappointed. 
 Another issue that I have to bring up is the horrible scores being handed out by so-called reviewers 
 in our own community that slam every game on PS3 because the graphics didn't make them wet themselves. 
 Graphics aren't everything. They help, but if your gameplay sucks, what difference does it make? 
 Don't believe me? Ask Over-G Fighters on 360. Beautiful looks, absolute garbage game. Play a game 
 for the total package, not just a little flash and shine. Anyway, that was my aside. Now, on to 
 the review.
  
  GAME REVIEW:
  
  When I first thought about getting The Godfather on PS3, I was a little hesitant. Open-world environments 
 are appealing to me, but most movie to game products suck horribly. That said, I was a little bit 
 more enthused once I learned that they actually took the time to get the original voice actors. 
 Usually, that means spending some money. And the only way that is going to happen is if the company 
 making the game thinks they will see a good return on that investment. So, I went ahead and picked 
 up the game. Was it a GTA killer? Did it accomplish what it set out to and prove to be a great 
 open-world game? Or was it another movie knockoff destined for the bargain bin? Well, here's my 
 Game Breakdown on The Godfather.
  
  Graphics: This is where the game scored lowest according to many people. To those people, I say 
 this: What do you want? Should every game look like CGI in order for you to show it some respect? 
 I thought the games graphics were pretty darn good, on par with Saint's Row for those looking to 
 compare. Character models were particularly nice, and the environments appeared to be very accurate 
 represenations of their locales. That said, theres not much here you haven't seen before. Except 
 for the fire effects. This game has some of the best looking flames I have ever seen in a video 
 game, period. When driving at high speed on some of the roads, you can expect to see slight breaks 
 in the graphics at times.
  
  Sound: Absolutely perfect. The voice overs are done so well, you really feel like you might be 
 watching the movie and not playing a game. The gun sounds are well done, particularly the boom 
 of the shotgun in this game. Very nice stuff. Even the cars don't sound that bad when you are driving 
 them. The musical score is incredible and I don't believe it could have been done any better.
 
  
  Control: The ONLY thing that took some getting used to in this game. I don't like some of the things 
 they did, such as mapping up on the d-pad as the button to draw your weapon as well as reload it. 
 I've had to hit down multiple times to conceal my weapon on a few occasions. Also, the camera is 
 not always your friend, particularly when you are moving around inside buildings or when you reverse 
 a car and then try to drive forward. Pressing and holding the L1 button will give you a lock on 
 any potential targets. However, the targeting system is not threat based, meaning you may find 
 yourself targeting an innocent bystander instead of the gangster with the tommy gun two feet away. 
 Bottom line, this could have used more work and served as a large reason why the game did not score 
 higher.
  
  Gameplay: You start out creating your mobster. At first, the options are fairly limited, but as 
 you play, you earn money to spend on clothes, shoes, etc. to upgrade your appearance. It's a nice 
 driving force for the game, as you will always find yourself wanting that one additional item for 
 your character. Taking down mob members has never been more satisfying, as the death animations 
 in this game are ridiculously cool. Also, if you manage to drop an enemy to his knees and get close 
 enough, you can press R1 to perform a special execution move, which basically is a finisher. Very 
 cool. The blood in this game adds a very nice touch. If you shoot someone in front of a wall, you'll 
 see the blood splatter onto the wall behind them. It doesn't feel over done at all, and really 
 adds the feeling that your shots mean something. A downside to the gameplay is that some of the 
 missions are quite hard. Expect to trial-and-error a few of them until you get it. If you are like 
 me, that is not something you want to hear. But I assure you, there is always a way to get through 
 the mission without launching the Sixaxis out the window. Speaking of, the game does try to use 
 motion sensing at some parts, such as throwing someone or slamming them against a wall. However, 
 I was only frustrated by trying to use those features, and usually just found another way to do 
 what I was supposed to.
  
  All in all, The Godfather is a very solid game. The campaign is quite long, and with the shortage 
 of PS3 titles right now, that is welcome news to us all. Electronic Arts really put some effort 
 into this one, and even if you aren't a fan of their work, I suggest at least renting it and seeing 
 what they have to offer. As a rental, I can easily recommend this game. As a purchase, it also 
 is recommended, especially if you are on the fence about getting a game like Full Auto 2 or some 
 other $60 filler title. Give it a shot, you'll be glad you did. Oh, and welcome... to the family. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xxxkingbobxxx
Rating: 8.7
Date: Apr 22, 2007 12:39 pm PT
Review:  THis game is an instant classic that never gets old. You can do watever you want. The only problem 
 is the graphics which are bad. The standard definiton ghraphics look like ps2 but the hd ones look 
 decent. There is so many weponds and killing styles it nver gets old, especially when using a club 
 or knocking people off roofs or into beer bottles or thought a sky window.. This game is very good 
 and the graphics dont get in ur way to much. Play for about an hour and youll be sucked in and 
 you wont even notice the graphics!
  
  Also the tilt fuciality makes it very fun and enjoyable to ply! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KurupSoldr
Rating: 8.2
Date: Apr 15, 2007 4:35 pm PT
Review:  I have only played the PS3 version, and i must say it is a great game with lots of fun things to 
 do. The combat system is pretty well put together and it also uses the sixaxis in some fun sort 
 of ways when roughing up people. its got its grand theft auto appeal, with a twist. Big open world 
 with plenty to keep you busy, exstoting money is lots of fun, but beating people up is by far the 
 most fun. Driving seems good so far. Aiming system seems pretty spot on to me have not had any 
 problems yet. Follows the movie pretty well, if your even thinking of checking this game out then 
 you should do so. Lots of intersting things you can do that set apart from games in the same genre. 
 Just rent it and give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sir_pickle
Rating: 9.9
Date: Apr 7, 2007 7:22 pm PT
Review:  This game was worth the money! Better than the other Godfather games I think you would agree. I 
 like the fact that you can create your own character in the game. The fact that your character 
 can be Don of NYC was great in the game. I like shooting the other families in the game. Having 
 mob wars and fighting cops. At first I thought the cars would be slow because they were slow but 
 they are really fast!! The story was great but they could have put more movie parts in the game 
 like to show how Don Vito died in the game. I saw all three movies and they were great. The game 
 was worth playing. Better than the Gran Theft Auto serious! I also like the fact that you can taking 
 control of companies by beating up the people that owns it. Too funny!! The weapons are great and 
 so is the upgrades in the game!! The game is worth dying for!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: surviver101play
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2007 4:50 pm PT
Review:  Godfather is a very fun game. The motion countrols work very well. I don't know why everyone is 
 saying the graphics suck because they are very good. The acting in this game is very good. The 
 sound is also ver good. The value of this game worth every penny. This game is one of those longer 
 games. To learn the controls might take you a little bit to learn if you have never played godfather 
 before. I highly recomend this game if you are a fan of the godfather movies are you played another 
 versoin of godfather. This is the best godfather game in the series. BUY IT VERY FUN GAME. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 4, 2007 3:54 pm PT
Review:  I as many iwas curious to see how EA would utilize the awsome power of the PS3. With this said 
 I have mixed reactions on it's turn out.
  
  Graphics: EA did improve on the original quite a bit, but I feel they didnt do it enough. Don't 
 get me wrong the graphics are pretty good. they are clear and greatly sharper then the original. 
 I just feel with the power and the graphics engine in the PS3 was't even close to being used to 
 it's potential. I will give them the kudos on animation and special effects as in safe blowing's 
 and car bombings as-well as building exsplosions are awsome. A new touch that was missed in the 
 PS2 version was the effects of the bullets and blood spray from the victims. this version allows 
 for the bullets to show actual damge as realalisticly as possible as-well as blood splatter from 
 the victoms. holes in the wall and cars look like it really happened.
  
  Sound: There is no real difference from this version verses the original one. i did hear more realilistic 
 gunfire ans the bomb exsplosions seemed more real. the music still is very repeative and after 
 a while the god father theme gets old. seeing this is in the forties radio would be out of place 
 so i quess it is tolerable.
  
  Storyline: This is where some major changes where done. they increased it by 25% by adding 5 new 
 missions and 6 more assasinations and finally but not least added 4 more family warehouses and 
 ships.
  
  Gameplay: This is where they did the best additions to the game in my opion. First they increased 
 the AI in this version they are much more difficult as-well as more they increased the number of 
 them. they changed the layouts of the storefronts and rackets. If you recall the original version 
 made them very linear dupilcation was the norm. in this version they changed lay outs added more 
 rooms and added obsticles to imped your your progress in the game. they also added a few new kinks 
 by using a ship and a train track as transpotaion hubs increasing the difficulty tremendously. 
 kudos thus making the killing spree more enjoyable yet if not careful deadly for yourself. by changing 
 the combat system to allow you the use of the sixaxis controller really allows the player to get 
 involved in the game at times it feels like you are really shaking a person or tossing them into 
 the fire or over a bridge. the new attribute system adds and allows a person to be the all out 
 shooter or the negotiator either way it allows you to want to play it more then ounce to see what 
 skills you can use and what effects they have. the online score card is ok but i would have prefered 
 an added feature of playing as differant families and you can take over RIVAL FAMILIES, RACKETS, 
 STORE FRONTS AND COMPOUNDS but instead just a scorecard kinda lame.
  
  Value: the question is is this game worth 60 bucks. with the added content and by the increased 
 difficulty it took my 10 hours longer to complete this version then the first one. the many differant 
 ways you can and probally will play this game does increase replay value. so i will say it is worth 
 the bucks for teh fan or for players that havnt played the first version. so for those that did 
 play the first one i recommend they wait till the price drop.
  
  Over all the game is well made just wish they took maybe a month or two to greatly improve on the 
 graphics and made some form of online play. then this genre would have been the bomb. i did give 
 it a 8 so the improvements that did happen impressed me enough to increase my original reviews 
 score up a couple notches.. good gaming all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soundthealarm
Rating: 8.6
Date: Mar 31, 2007 11:37 pm PT
Review:  I enjoyed this game throughly... given I didn't play the ps2 version but this was awesome! they 
 only thing was the graphics could of been improved. but it almost doesn't matter cause the actual 
 game is so fun. completing the story and taking over all the store shops in town take up alot of 
 time and don't seem to get boring. took me about 29 hours to do all of that. and then there are 
 bonus missions such as collecting things strewn about the world you are in. all in all I would 
 recommend it to anyone thats a fan of grand theft auto, the godfather movie, or both. two thumbs 
 up! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: alpriego76
Rating: 3.7
Date: Mar 27, 2007 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game at launch and I'm thinking about trading it in already. This game looks like 
 a grand theft auto rip off, with much worse graphics. Seriously: the graphics on this game are 
 not worth spending $60 bucks on! I have GTA Vice city and the graphics are much better! I you'r 
 e a fan of the Godfather series, then save yourself the money and buy the PS2 version. you wont 
 see much of a difference. It''s not a terrible game to play, but it's just not my cup of joe. This 
 is just another proof that not everything that shiones is gold&lt; and certainly not every next 
 gen game is worth buying 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danjoe
Rating: 8.1
Date: Mar 26, 2007 2:32 am PT
Review:  The actors voices and format of the game make you feel like you are in the movie. The streets and 
 buildings look good. You can wander around town but not all buildings are accessible. Unfortunately, 
 the template for a business is the same exact one for each business (You've seen one bakery, you've 
 seen them all) .
  
  Driving through the cities is fun but gets more and more tedious when you find yourself commuting 
 throughout the town of NYC. You can drive any car in the simulation (parked cars, cars driven by 
 poor unsuspecting bystanders) . Each car has it's own handling characteristics. The sports car is 
 fun to drive but fragile and the truck is very durable when outrunning the cops (I outran the cops 
 with 6 badges warranted for my arrest - I get into another 'burrough' and the cops are gone) .
 
  
  All of the characters from the movie are the same except for Michael Corleone. The game is very 
 graphic when it comes to shooting and the kill moves are brutal (ie standing on the chest and firing 
 a Tommy Gun into some's face is ghastly) .
  
  You go through the story with assignments or tasks by the Corleones but you also have side tasks 
 of 'providing security' for business owners (ie extortion) or getting contracts for 'hits'. Some 
 'hits' are creative - must use a baseball bat, must throw person into crematory, throw person off 
 of building, etc. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kenny_2469
Rating: 7.9
Date: Mar 23, 2007 9:37 pm PT
Review:  The Godfather: The Don's Edition for PS3 is a decent game. The game follows the Godfather movie. 
 You do missions that follow what happens in the movie. Some good points about this game are: +There 
 is a good character customization set up that continues throughout the entire game +The explosions 
 in this game are also very realistic looking
  
  +Game follows Godfather movie well and adds side missions (protecting businesses from other families...
 
  
  +Its a decent game for the PS3, as many know there arent too many great games out right now.
 
  
  +Uses the sixaxis controller during combat well
  
  Some of the negatives about this game are:
  
  - Graphics are a little flat and bland at times, 
 reminds me of PS2 style graphics
  
  -some of the missions are repetitive
  
  Overall this game is a good game to pick up. It is in a way similar to GTA style gameplay, being 
 open ended and free roaming. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
