-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Godfather II
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/adventure/thegodfatherii/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 You get to see some cool movie moments from a different perspective.
 Impressive and upgradable arsenal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Nothing about the game feels finished.
 Uninspired and repetitive gameplay.
 Crew members are unbelievably stupid.
 Poorly designed multiplayer modes and maps.
 Dated visuals.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr  7, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 4.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 7.6, 360 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Adventure
Date: Apr 7, 2009
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Even if it were finished, this movie-inspired action game wouldn't be deserving of its prestigious 
 license. 

  If  The Godfather II  had been a mediocre, mindless action flick, the game of the same name could 
 at least be considered faithful to its source material. As it is, though, Coppola's Mafia-themed 
 masterpiece has been reduced to an uninspired, repetitive open-world action game with out-of-context 
 movie quotes and a handful of recognizable characters sprinkled throughout its forgettable story. 
 To make matters worse, The Godfather II has clearly been released in an unfinished state and is 
 riddled with performance issues and bugs like they've been fired from a Tommy gun.  

  You play as Dominic, an important member of the Corleone family who somehow managed 
 to make it through the epic movie trilogy without ever wandering into camera shot despite apparently 
 being involved in a number of key scenes. As one of Michael Corleone's most trusted men, you've 
 been groomed to head up your own family, and after a brief introductory sequence set in Cuba, the 
 game proper gets under way in a diminutive New York where you're instructed to set about making 
 a name for yourself. From this point on, much of your time is spent seizing and attempting to retain 
 control of businesses run by rival families in order to make money and, ultimately, force said 
 families to retreat into their compounds where you can eliminate them entirely. Unfortunately, 
 killing rival mafiosi and intimidating business owners gets repetitive quickly and isn't much fun 
 to begin with.  

  That's largely because the gunplay in The Godfather II is neither challenging nor satisfying. You 
 have an impressive arsenal at your disposal, and weapons like the Magnum and the shotgun really 
 feel like they pack a punch, but the enemies you're using them against rarely seem too interested 
 in self-preservation. Too many of them simply stand their ground or charge at you and, if they 
 somehow manage to get close before you put a couple of bullets in their heads, can easily be grabbed, 
 punched, strangled, or head-butted into the afterlife. With that said, the made men working for 
 rival families are geniuses compared to the clowns you get to recruit into your own family. They 
 have their uses, but even having them do something as simple as walk through a doorway ahead of 
 you or climb into one of the game's many slow but slippery cars with you can take some work. Predictably, 
 things don't get any better when they're put into combat situations or are asked to perform the 
 very specific tasks that they supposedly each specialize in, which include cracking safes, committing 
 arson, and kicking down doors.  

           There are some memorable movie scenes in the game, but few are as faithful to the originals 
 as this one.      

  The problem isn't that they're unable to perform those tasks; it's that walking from A to B is 
 rarely straightforward for them. When they're not failing to get into cars with you or running 
 rings around one another at superhuman speeds, your guys can often be observed wandering off in 
 the wrong direction or just remaining stationary while appearing to ponder their next step. Doorways 
 are especially problematic, regardless of whether you're leading the way or are trying to send 
 your guys in ahead of you to soak up some enemy fire. When you're in front, it's not uncommon to 
 open a door, step into a room, and encounter the guys that were right behind you already standing 
 around waiting for you in there. Other times they prefer to enter through different doors while 
 running backward, or perhaps crash through a window for an entrance that really gets them noticed. 
 If you turn your back on them, though, they'll be warped instantly to your side, sometimes.  

 
  Initially you get to recruit only one of these laughable soldiers for your family, and you get 
 to choose between a demolitions expert and a medic. The former can create shortcuts through walls 
 and blow up buildings, but like most of the crew abilities, these can be used in only very specific 
 locations. The latter is arguably the most useful guy you'll ever meet, because if you or any other 
 crew member gets killed, he can bring you back to life with full health just by sticking a needle 
 in you. Ultimately, you can recruit up to seven made men for your family, and as they prove their 
 worth, you can spend money on attribute upgrades and better weapons for them and even promote them 
 so that they can specialize in more than one field. It behooves you to take the maximum allowed 
 three crew members with you on every mission that you accept and to every business that you make 
 a move on, because location layouts are generally so contrived and architecturally improbable that, 
 for example, the only way into a building with seemingly easily accessible doors might be to blow 
 a hole in a wall or to have your engineer cut a hole in a fence. Annoyingly, there's no consistent 
 rule set in the world of The Godfather II, so while some fences can be cut through in specific 
 locations, other, identical-looking fences, are impenetrable. Doors are another example; some can 
 be kicked down, some can be lock-picked, and others can't be opened even with dynamite. You can't 
 even predict which waist-high walls you'll be able to vault over until you get close enough to 
 try, which is incredibly frustrating if you're fleeing from the cops on foot.  

           The front door was locked.      

  Businesses that you control after successfully negotiating 
 all of the aforementioned problems don't just earn you money; they can also unlock special perks 
 for you if you claim every business within a crime ring. Controlling both of New York's prostitution 
 rackets will get you brass knuckles, while three diamond smuggling operations in Florida will earn 
 you and your crew bulletproof vests, for example. These crime-ring bonuses add some small degree 
 of strategy to the proceedings when it comes to planning your next move, not least because rival 
 families can benefit from the same bonuses that you can, but none of the bonuses significantly 
 impact the difficulty of subsequent actions -- regardless of who has them. Rivals will often attempt 
 to reclaim or bomb businesses that you control, denying you your bonuses if they succeed, so it's 
 important to hire guards to protect them. The guards aren't always up to the job if a rival family 
 decides to send soldiers and capos along, but at the very least they'll buy you some time until 
 you can send members of your own crew there via the "Don's View" map screen or go and join the 
 fight yourself.     

   

  Rival families can be eliminated only when they've lost control of all businesses and have retreated 
 to their fortress-like compounds. At this point, the compounds become unlocked so that you can 
 get into them and fight your way to wherever it is that you need to place a bomb. In theory, you 
 shouldn't attempt this kind of operation until you've weakened a family by assassinating a number 
 of its made men, but in practice, the only real difference between those guys and the regular guards 
 is that it takes more bullets to put them down. Interestingly, the only way to permanently kill 
 a made man other than to bomb his family's compound is to do so in a way that sends a specific 
 message to his family, and you can find out which message needs to be sent only by doing favors 
 for people you meet on the street. Remember how Vito Corleone was unable to turn down any request 
 from a friend on his daughter's wedding day in the first  Godfather  movie? Well, this is nothing 
 like that. Rather, you approach complete strangers and tell them they look like they need help, 
 at which point they tell you who or which building they want attacked. Do them the favor, and they'll 
 tell you where one of your enemies can be found and that he can only be killed with a Molotov, 
 with a shot between the eyes, with a fall from a great height, by being run over with a car, or 
 something similar. Not only is soliciting murder advice from random pedestrians totally absurd, 
 carrying out these contrived actions is more trouble than it's worth, so you'll probably end up 
 just bombing the compound every time.  

           There's at least one guy who can only be killed with a Molotov, but there are plenty to 
 go around.      

  Once you take down all five families, you're about done with the single-player portion of The Godfather 
 II. Multiplayer modes designed for up to 16 players include Team Deathmatch, Demolition Assault, 
 FireStarter, and Safecracker. You play as one of the members of your crew from the single-player 
 game, and as you earn honor points online, you can use them to upgrade your guys' weapon licenses 
 so that they're able to use more-powerful guns both online and off. Your choice of crew member 
 will likely be dictated by the game type that you're playing because, in case you hadn't guessed, 
 those last three modes favor players with demolition, arson, and safecracker skills, respectively. 
 Unfortunately, The Godfather II's multiplayer isn't much fun. Targeting enemies without the lock-on 
 feature feels too imprecise on consoles, completing objectives on the non-deathmatch modes doesn't 
 earn you as many points as just killing people, and most of the maps are too big for just 16 players. 

  One of the more interesting multiplayer features, regardless of the fact that it's functional rather 
 than fun, is the option for one player on each team to play as the don. As the don, you don't play 
 as a guy on the ground at all, but as a disembodied camera flying high above the map and able to 
 relay information to teammates about enemy locations and the like both with voice chat and by dropping 
 waypoint beacons. When your team captures strategic locations on the map, you can also reward them 
 with bulletproof vests and other perks, which is great for them but as boring as it sounds for 
 you. Worse still, you can only fly around freely at a fixed altitude, so although you have the 
 option to jump between players and key locations with a couple of button presses, your movement 
 still feels oddly restricted. It's possible to make money as the don by betting on the outcome 
 of games, but money's unlikely to be an issue once you near the end of the single-player game, 
 so it's hardly compelling.  

           See if you can guess what happens next.      

  Questionable design choices aside, the problem with almost every aspect of The Godfather II is 
 simply that it feels unfinished. Dated visuals, voiced lines of dialogue that seemingly play at 
 random and often inappropriate times, dead bodies falling through scenery, a car hovering in the 
 air about half a mile off the Cuban coast, being able to snipe enemies through walls and doors 
 that haven't popped into view yet, guards who fail to recognize you as a threat when you walk into 
 a federal building and crack a safe, cars and pedestrians that appear and disappear long before 
 they leave your range of vision, getting stuck in an animation somewhere between a regular walk 
 and a crouch after vaulting through a window -- these are just some of the problems we encountered 
 in the 13 hours or so that it took to play from start to finish. Even looking past these anomalies, 
 all you're going to find is repetitive, unsatisfying gameplay in an illogical, inconsistent world. 
 The Godfather II should have been an offer impossible to refuse, but like Michael's brother Fredo, 
 this one will break your heart.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (20 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Speedsta69
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 18, 2009 6:10 pm PT
Review:  Since Dec 08 I had been waiting for the Feb 09 release, and after 3 delays, this so was not worth 
 the wait.
  
  With what games can accomplish now days, GF2 really felt like a Sony PS1 game. As defined by GAMESPOT, 
 this really did feel unfinished.
  
  The graphics haven't improved from the last GF1, the story line is trying to follow the movie plot 
 but of on its own tangent, and the multiplayer is like every other basic multiplayer (you login 
 and then you shot and try to accrue status points) . Like any other basic game where they spent 
 so much money on actors/licence and so on, not enough creativeity was spent on the gameplay. It's 
 repetitive and not really challenging.
  
  You'd think with the delays, they would of but more effort into fixing the bugs and quality of 
 the game.
  
  Overall, if you want something that is a try hard attempt at GTA4 but with a narrow plot line and 
 restrictive play, then this might be the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mcgaff88
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 16, 2009 3:47 pm PT
Review:  I rented Godfather 2 hoping for a game as good as or better than the first. The first had decent 
 graphics, somewhat dated, but the gameplay was good and engaging. The Godfather 2 is boring, everything 
 is the same, the graphics are terrible for a PS3 game and after playing for 3 hours, you havent 
 gotten anywhere. Your player is asked to do the same things over and over, without much reward. 
 The controls are bad and the police and health systems are buggy and do not live up to the first 
 game. Driving in the game is like driving a square. When you crash, the car damages in the same 
 place everytime and gets stuck very easily. The driving physics need work and the weapons are terribly 
 unrealistic and it takes many shots to down an enemy with a basic pistol. Overall this game is 
 frustating, really easy, boring, bad graphics and doesnt live up to its name 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevin75
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 11:14 am PT
Review:  EA you brilliant bastards you've done it. Awhile ago I imagined what would be the ultimate crime 
 game ala GTA style. What I imagined was an open world with different cities in the general vicinity 
 of each other and you start out small and build up from there. Though my idea was larger in scope 
 than Godfather 2 it is awesome to see someone has picked up on my idea. Well parts of my idea anyway. 
 That is not to say I gave them the idea, which I didn't but that someone has started along the 
 road which will ultimately lead to what I had envisioned all that time ago. Thus it is pretty obvious 
 from here where my review is going to go.
  
  Godfather 2 begins on the new years party in 1958 at Hyman Roth's Party where he announces his 
 retirement and how the turf will be split up and then the Revolution begins. Viva La Revolution. 
 This is where it begins. You play as Dominic and you are soon made don. Yippy no crap getting to 
 the power and then not wielding it. You have power from the start. Now the graphics aren't as good 
 as GTA 4 but that doesn't matter as we are not art critics but gamers. The graphics are good and 
 comes close to GTA but there are small things that GTA 4 didn't do that this game does. I made 
 a list in fact (I am forgetful and I wanted to remember the what they were for this review) .
  
  Now for the Graphics aspect smaller things. First Cars have persistent damage, which is not 
 a first, but what it does which is awesome is that when I hit someone blood splattered on the car 
 and it stayed there. In fact Blood spatter is way better than it was in GTA 4. I think at this 
 point for the parents out there wondering what the game is about and are reading my review I must 
 say do not buy this game for your kid. It is a mature game with mature concepts. There are **** 
 in the game. Not once but aways. Females are not wearing tops (awesome for us adults not for the 
 kids) . Plus I don't want to have to come across another rude punk like I have who think they are 
 all big and bad. Now for the rest of us who are generally interested in the game. The blood spatter 
 is larger and better and more realistic than GTA 4. It is there and you can easily spot it vs the 
 tiny amount you get in GTA 4. Not GTA 4 bashing here just pointing it out. It goes on the walls, 
 floors, ext. Another good point is the bullet holes on the bodies. These are not persistent but 
 they are awesome none the less. Parents hint hint not for kids.
  
  Now for why games are played game play. A key new feature is the Don's View. It is a 3d map where 
 you can buy guards, send your made men to defend or capture places, see where things are which 
 include police stations and the hospitals. Which make it easy for you to find things. The Don's 
 View is where you can view your made men and upgrade them. Made men come in three levels. Soldier 
 4, Capo 2, and Underboss 1. Underboss being the strongest. The upgrade system could have been deeper 
 but it is nice to have. You can upgrade your character as well. Ah I forgot when you first start 
 out you make your character the way you want. There are restrictions but as someone put it once 
 it is nice to have a character that is part of the story like Dominic is. Thus there will be many 
 different Dominic's throughout the world and you can choose the skin color, but they are all the 
 same name and voice and they talk. Speaking of talking that is what your guys will do as you can 
 form a crew and bring them with you. They each have skills and you will need to have the skills 
 to use to get through places, obtain things, and basically kill people. It is a great system as 
 you need to have certain skills at certain points. Skills I found the most useful were the medic, 
 demo, and safe cracking skill. As you move them up in rank they get one new skill. There are some 
 characters you can find that have two skills to begin with which are useful. Upgrading them is 
 about the only thing you will use money for. Now comes for a unique part. You use your made men 
 to fight online and their honors are persistent and needed to get a better weapons licence which 
 allow them to use better weapons. This is pretty awesome and their skills are used online in different 
 modes. Like Arson and demo have specific game modes for their abilities. Now the game play is about 
 taking over rackets. The X-box magazine whines about this because god forbid a game use its main 
 concepts. I had to put that in there as I did not like the review that it gave. To me it screamed 
 "we wish we could give it a worse score but our credibility will be shot if we do". You should 
 see what they said about the expansion to GTA 4 but that is not why you are here but I feel it 
 is important to say that they are wrong the game is fun. Awe Fun the main reason we play games. 
 Heck if it isn't fun why play it. There really is no point if it isn't somehow fun and Godfather 
 2 achieves this and then some. To point out how well it does this let me say this. I am not a huge 
 fan of traveling over large distances. I like it but sometimes it does wear thin and gets annoying. 
 This was not the case for godfather 2 (and yes there is a point to this hold your horses lol) . 
 There are three cities (New York, Florida, and Cuba) . New York is a nice starter city being small 
 but not too small and lets you have a good time and get places quick. Florida is more huge. It 
 is pretty decent in size and you can drive around a lot. Florida is the largest city and has the 
 most Rackets and businesses. And finally you have Cuba. When you first arrive you will only be 
 able to take certain places but not all will be unlocked till a plot point is reached. I will keep 
 it a secret as you probably don't want it spoiled and if you do to bad. LOL. Then that is where 
 the final family is located but before going on with that I have to point out something else. It 
 is small like New York sized, but it is action packed to the point of annoyance. You can't start 
 nothing without Rebels or the Police getting on your case. Which is good because the police are 
 more lenient then in the other cities thus keeping the fun factor going. Taking down the other 
 families is your key goal here plus getting more power, places, ext. But families taking down is 
 what you will do. You do favors which are basic missions to ether kill, bust a place up, or ruff 
 a person up. Other favors which don't net you kill conditions but money or huge favors from corrupt 
 officials, are blow a place up (even if you own it but to quote "hey it's only business") and I 
 think that is it. Kill conditions are needed because if you just kill regularly the enemy made 
 man will only be taken out. (one time I held him and cops were shooting and he got arrested when 
 he died. Speaking of which cops won't pull you from cars. This is extremely funner than getting 
 ripped from a car in other games to be arrested. You are only arrested if you die by being killed 
 by a cop) . They ultimately come back and can lead assaults on your businesses. You kill them a 
 specific way and they are dead for good. It has been pointed out that it is easier to just kill 
 them all at the compound at the end of the stage which I did near the end of the game at a certain 
 point after killing enough of them but it is fun to hunt these people down and kill them a special 
 way. Well most of the time they are. A couple can be frustrating but most are fun to do.
  
  Executions are back and simple and simpler to obtain and there are many unique for each weapon 
 and there are two types. Standing and and kneeling ones. The game uses its rich whatcha call it 
 from its movies. Good for fans, not really important for those don't know the movies. It doesn't 
 screw you over if you haven't seen the movie but if you have and I haven't it enriches the experience. 
 Though some scenes I knew from other places which I don't remember from where but it made the game 
 good. You are the key to certain parts of the movie. The Senator's dead hooker, you. The game has 
 many things going for it and to just some it up game play is good.
  
  In closing the game was fun to play and I recommend it. Only though if you are mature enough to 
 handle it. Parents use discretion with this purchase mature themes abound and this may not be appropriate 
 for all ages. Great game can't wait for the sequel well I can because this is going to be the sweetest 
 year in gaming I have ever scene. Enjoy it if you get it and remember people it's only business.
 
  
  For more Reviews, game news, ext check out my blog at http://kevin7557. blogspot. com/ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CPT_Crunch007
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 13, 2009 1:24 am PT
Review:  Brilliant sequel to a amazing game. Every moment was spent in bliss. I found some people not enjoying 
 the graphics and saying there aged. But that is the style of this classic along with the one before 
 it. It was refreshing having elements of the first game within the second. But it also has allot 
 more to offer than the first. With the new ways of travel and more in depth approaches to attacking 
 fronts or crime rings. The bonuses given for holding a crime ring was a nice touch as well.
  
  The Don's view was by far the best way to manage large cities with a few vital decisions.
 
  
  In my opinion, the Godfather 2 will become a timeless classic along side the first Godfather. Just 
 as you can re-watch the Godfathers 3 part movie you can play this second one just as much.
  
  The godfather 2 is it its own league and will always remain there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CameronMcF
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 12, 2009 8:14 am PT
Review:  The Godfather II immerses you into the world of the godfather for a second time and yet still manages 
 to addict you to the action packed style of it. You start off as an Underboss but as the story 
 quickly heats up you become the Don of NYC and have the task of extorting, eliminating and just 
 plain old causing a riot.
  
  There are a few bugs in the game but nothing I have seen has taken away from the great gameplay 
 and structure from it. With the new control scheme of "The Dons View" which lets you have a whole 
 new world of control to being able to start your family recruiting soldiers and promoting them 
 to capo then eventually to underboss.
  
  The game has many twists and turns in it and will leave you loving it for hours, though if I was 
 criticising the game I would have to say about how the game is quite small and after you have finished 
 the main storyline there isn't much to do except going online but while the main story is in full 
 swing I guarantee you will love it if you are a fan of games like this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: liampardoe
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:44 am PT
Review:  I have made my game purchases based on the reviews on this site for years and have to say i agree 
 with almost every one. But the review of the godfather 2 is actually a joke!!!!!!!! 4.5!!!!!! Hence 
 my first player review!! I can think if alot worse games than this out there believe me!! 
  This game has got unreal potential and maximised properly it would probably produce the best game 
 of all time!! Yes the graphics could be better ... yes there are some glitches.. but there are 
 in almost every game. The bottom line is that this game is addictive and fun to play .. who cares 
 that taking over rackets is repetitive because it is so god damn fun!!!!!!!!! The dons view menu 
 systems are stylish and look really nice, and you have access to everything you can think of like 
 upgrading yours and your crews weapons... what you wear.. what your crew wear... you can send your 
 best men to guard or defend your business'.... you can even whack your own men to free up room 
 for a better specialist!!! The gameplay options available in this game make it great to play and 
 id give the gameplay score a 9. Overall this game could have been alot better by taking out the 
 glitches and improving the graphics but is definitely, worth checking out. I give it a 7.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pwnmachine244
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 11, 2009 11:29 pm PT
Review:  Well, it's no fun just beatin' around the bush, so we'll get down to the nitty gritty.
  
  This game could probably be named "How to start your own crime syndicate for dummies." Yeah, it's 
 that in-depth. You, being the Don of your family, have the ability to completely control every 
 aspect of your organization, from guards, to family operations, everything in this package. In 
 fact, there are specific crime rings that you may take over, and once that happens, you gain a 
 certain bonus depending on what ring you control. For instance, the gun smuggling ring grants your 
 men larger ammo clips, the prostitution ring grants your men a set of brass knuckles to increase 
 hand-to-hand damage, etc.
  
  However, graphically, this game doesn't quie live up to what they should be. I don't mean to completely 
 harsh on the graphics, they are good, but Killzone 2 spoiled me (what are ya gonna do?) . However, 
 I was happy with the facial animations, in close-up conversations, and the voice acting is great 
 (save for Hyman Roth) .
  
  Gameplay, or should I say, gunplay, is a great achievement. It's a blast to go around shooting 
 up businesses, and the execution maneuvers are enjoyably brutal especially those with the Tommy 
 Gun - glad I wasn't that guy...
  
  Now, there are some glitches in the game, but I don't think they truly hamper the experience at 
 all. These bugs occur so few and far between that they are simply comedic more than they are frustrating. 
 Allied AI isn't nearly as bad as they say either, as your crew will delightfully give you pointers 
 on whether there are rival family members around, or the heat's on your tail, usually with a funny 
 line. A personal favorite for when one of your men detect cops in the area is, "Here comes the 
 donut patrol..."
  
  Overall, this game is absolutely great, and if you are sitting there, wondering if you should really 
 buy this game, take it from me, do it. You'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: angelofdev
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 11:15 pm PT
Review:  This game is amazing, I really enjoyed it. The story in the game is taken directly from the movie 
 and implemented into this 3D world, so I don't know why the gamespot reviewer said it has a weak 
 story. He/she must be a Halo fan, as there weren't any ridiculous aliens to fight ingame, so in 
 his/her eyes the story structure couldn't have possibly been strong enough. 
  
  All in all this game is all the movie ever inspired to be, extort businesses and destroy other 
 mafia families who get in your way or backstab your family. Not to mention the favors the everyday 
 people ask mafia Don's to do for them, in return you get to call upon them to return a favor for 
 you. This could be police chiefs calling off police who are on your tail or union bosses who will 
 order union members to reconstruct your business which was bombed by a rival family. 
  
  One thing I really liked about this game is with every Crime ring you take over you get special 
 items which range from bullet proof vests to bullet proof vehicles.
  
  It is always fun to hire guards to defend your business from rival families. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eeiirriikk1988
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 11, 2009 8:10 am PT
Review:  This game is totally awesome. You can do anything you want. I have no idea what the GameSpot Reviewer 
 was doing giving this game a 4.5 score.
  And he also calls this bad graphics !? On my 60 inch. 1080p full HD TV with a PlayStation 3 and 
 a HDMI cable, it's almots GTA IV graphics. You gotta play the game under water to call the graphics 
 poor. Grand Theft Auto IV is the best game graphically, but The Godfather 2 has almost the same 
 graphics on my TV. That you can travel between New York, Miami and Havana is beatiful, on Cuba 
 and in Florida, I get a feeling of Summer vacation. It's very cool, that the game is set to the 
 late 60's and there's a lot of good, old weapons and some are also inspired by modern ones. And 
 all the combat modes. The game is just PERFECT. This is GameSpot's worst mistake ever!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: london0161
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 10, 2009 3:01 pm PT
Review:  The second godfather game and what a game from go their is so many action parts to go threw i have 
 only played 4 aroung five hours and am amazed the graphics 10/10 sound 10/10 what more could you 
 ask for. Game play: Very Sweet, graphics are amazing, everything looks so crisp and in excellent 
 detail. I was blown over by the High Def graphics, they were just phenominal. The levels look more 
 intense especially when you take over controls to be the Don which look intense, and highly aggrevating. 
 But, over all the game looks fantastic, in my opinion the first Godfather for PS2 was awesome from 
 the beginning and it still does, but honestly this game is definitely great looking. And, besides 
 critics can down this game for what ever reason but truthfully they really can't diss the movies 
 either because their the ones in the first place who gave the movies high honors from the start 
 of the first Godfather film. So, the critics can criticize all they want their not the ones who 
 will never actually play the game in the first place, so who are they to judge.
  
  * Set in a stunning open-world environment, The Godfather II expands on the popular gameplay mechanics 
 of the first game and doubles down on the series' signature BlackHand control scheme, which now 
 features even more visceral hand-to-hand brutality at your fingertips, introducing a new combo 
 system, pressure tactics and executions.
  * In The Godfather II, players will fight alongside their hand-picked crew, who have their own 
 skills and expertise. Each family member specializes in a specific field such as demolitions, arson, 
 engineering, first-aid and more.
  * "The Don's View" allows players to oversee the entire world as they grow the family business. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: artson1966
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 10, 2009 1:46 am PT
Review:  Many critics of late have compared every game to others. I am not a fan of comparing games to others 
 in the Genre, I believe we should score each game on its own merits.. This sites review of this 
 game is compared not only with the first in game in the series the godfather Dons edition, but 
 it also compares it to GTA and other third person games. I admit the game has it flaws and in this 
 gamers opinion not as bad as this site contends.
  
  Graphics: I will agree with Gamespot on this part of the review. I agree that it is choppy and 
 appears to look no better then a ps2 version. I also say that it has improved on the first games 
 mistakes with better textures and lighting, more detailed blood and guts so to speak.
  
  Sound effects are ok, I believe that some more delvelope time would have made this much better.
 
  
  Game play. I love the addition of the RTS addition to the gameplay. It add some forsite on a players 
 stradegy and I do agree with this sites opinion on the IA it is way to easy and at times ther appears 
 to be no IA at all. The first godfather was much better on this. the storyline is kinda lame. The 
 dons view is a great idea, but lacks depth here again more developing time could have dramatically 
 improved the gameplay here, but even with these faults the game still is very fun and does force 
 a player to think on how to defend what he or she conquers.. the backhand controls have been improved 
 in my opinion and seem more natural. but I do miss the Sixasis control schemes even though they 
 have some its not as fluid as in the first game of the series.
  
  multi player... I really believe they would have been better off by leaving this out of the game 
 and increasing the single players with more detailed missions and side missions simalair to the 
 first game
  
  Over all the game is fun and it can become repeatative it still has variations and some cool side 
 missions that will help with the storyline if you allow it too. I do agree the game isnt a 10 but 
 its better then a 4.5 so I rated the game an even 7 because I found the game fun even with the 
 flaws I mentioned.
  
  I do believe it is worth at least a rent and for those on the cheap look for it in a couple months 
 in the bargain bin. I just dont agree that the game isnt even worth a play which this site suggests 
 with it's rating. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mortaleclipse
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 11:21 am PT
Review:  Not even reading one revie cause I wanted to dive into the game without having my mind set on how 
 this is going to be. The opening scene with you escaping from cuba was interesting. I must say 
 the first time I did a execute on someone with my pistol my jaw droped. It was so brutal that only 
 in a mobster video game could i do this.
  
  Now I ran the game with my RCA's and my HDMI cable. The HDMI cable hooked to my samsing HD look 
 wonderful, crisp with a nice bright picture. Once I switche to the RCA it looked much duller with 
 rough edges on everything. Maybe this game is made to play on high def cause it looked great when 
 I had the HDMI hooked up.
  
  Also the thing with the AI, if people are not used to AI doing retarded things by now in video 
 games then you are just as stupid as the AI. Games have always spazzed out and they always will, 
 its annoying at times but just minor unless you are someone who dwells on it.
  
  The mutliplayer is average, nothing to exciting. Alot of the maps are to large and you find yourself 
 running around more then fighting. I did like the idea of using online and single player can kind 
 of mix together to build your mob. 
  
  I recommend buying the game if you are into GTA style of games and wanna be a mobster. It fits 
 the style just fine and its goodtimes pulling off executes. If you are a casual gamer I would rent 
 it first.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MarkGoo
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 9, 2009 7:27 am PT
Review:  I bought the game on release day, and then couldn't play it until the following evening. During 
 that time Gamespot had come out with their less than average review, it was down right hateful 
 at times. Oh well, everyone's got an opinion. I figured I dropped cash on the game and guide, so 
 I plugged it in prepared for disappointment and so far the game has been very fun. The controls 
 are easy to use, the plot is great even though it doesn't follow the movie exactly, and most game/movies 
 don't.
  As far as the other aspects of a game are concerned graphics, speed, sound, ect They are great 
 for this release. There are a some crazy AI things from time to time as the reviewer pointed out, 
 but there is so much more to this release than how fast a sidekick gets In the car. I'll update 
 this when I finish the game, to see how I think about it then, but currently it's all fun. The 
 reason I didn't give it a higher score was due to my uncertainty about how annoying it may play 
 out to keep taking back properties that I have already captured. It makes sense that your enemies 
 would try and sometimes succeed in getting their places back, but I can see that after a few times 
 this may get old. Not sure, maybe if I plan right I can avoid these types of things with proper 
 strategy. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: waterbearer26
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 7:19 pm PT
Review:  
  The Godfather 2: PS3 
  
  
  Game play: Very Sweet, graphics are amazing, everything looks so crisp and in excellent detail. 
 I was blown over by the High Def graphics, they were just phenominal. The levels look more intense 
 especially when you take over controls to be the Don which look intense, and highly aggrevating. 
 But, over all the game looks fantastic, in my opinion the first Godfather for PS2 was awesome from 
 the beginning and it still does, but honestly this game is definitely great looking. And, besides 
 critics can down this game for what ever reason but truthfully they really can't diss the movies 
 either because their the ones in the first place who gave the movies high honors from the start 
 of the first Godfather film. So, the critics can criticize all they want their not the ones who 
 will never actually play the game in the first place, so who are they to judge. 
  
  
  The Movie Trailer: Again, remarkable graphics and detail. And, I think the critics have to agree 
 for once that games have absolutely come a long way since atari and sega genesis. the game itself 
 looks great, and i have read some the members reviews and i agree with some but not all, i mean 
 come on everyone has to know that this game is highly worth playing, in my opinion it's not your 
 typical gangster video game where all your doing is creating havoc, and chaos throughout an entire 
 city, this game is not like that at all, by far to say the least. I can one thing this game is 
 not Grand Theft Auto.. just saying. But, this game is in my high opinion worth playing. 
  
  The Godfather 2- Shoot Up The Joint: Good, clean, violent, fun. Weapons are more modern and defintely 
 have a great look. The game itself is a masterpiece in a half. Absolutely looks incredible compared 
 to any other i have seen being released for this console. I believe that EA has hit the jackpot 
 with this game indeed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MagmaGecko
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:48 pm PT
Review:  Seriously, don't listen to gamespot. This is one hell of a solid game, and the reviewer for gamespot 
 probably forgot to take his prozac when he wrote the review.
  I personally didn't encounter one glitch and the AI that is I mean, you're allies are alot smarter 
 than gamespot's reviewer gave them credit for. The selection of guns are awsome, and the upgrades 
 for those guns are even better. The whole "Don view" is genius, and saves me the trouble of having 
 to do all that work myself.
  
  And about the story, lets face it, the first Godfather game wasn't exactly genius or mind blowing. 
 It was based off the movie. I mean come on, the whole story of the first game was basically Aldo 
 attaining more and mroe power, until he had enough power to get revenge. ohhh, that's so origonal. 
 Not. (but it was still a kick ass game) .
  
  Finally, the graphics, you know, I'll admit, it's nothing like meat gear guns of the patriots, 
 but it's completley superior to any graphics the playstation 2 or origonal Xbox or even the Wii. 
 I think graphics like this give the game character and personality which is lacking in alot of 
 games.
  
  Finally, if there was one thing I agreed with gamespot, it was that the game was repetitive. Every 
 game is. It's almost impossible to make a game that almost never repeats itself. After playing 
 a game and beating it, then replaying it again, it'll always feel like you've done it before (in 
 theory, you actually did, you beat the game, you've expeirienced it before) so that remark in the 
 review was redundant (useless) . I mean, in Guns if the patriots, all you did every game was hide 
 in the grass or stay hidden and figure out the enemy patrol patterns. It offered no freedom whatsoever 
 and 75% of the game was either cinimatics or cutscenes (I'm not gonna lie, I still love that game 
 and everything about it) . COD modern warefare, all you did in the campaign was run, crouch, aim, 
 shoot-maybe even throw a grenade or two and you were done the level. I don't remember the gamespot 
 mentioning something like that in their review.;
  
  My final paragraph (it'll be short :) . This game is not deserving of it's review, and the way gamespot 
 graded this was disgusting and rushed. I've now realized that gamespot is not the be all, end all 
 of reviews. Personally, I'm a little offended gamespot gave such a lousy review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: asp7td
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 11:51 am PT
Review:  Dont get me wrong, the Godfather 2 is not a terrible game. It has its fun moments but you really 
 have to look past its obvious Graphic, AI and Structural flaws. 
  
  Simply put the game seems rushed. It had a lot of potential and even running through the features 
 of the game there seems like so much more that could have been done to better polish and creative 
 a better Play.
  
  The funnest part of this game would be the ability to create and control your family, Call hits, 
 and the option to play the game how you feel. But honestly, Thats it. The fun ends there.
  
  My biggest complaint with this game would be the AI. It is just awful, Your crew members literally 
 run around fast as light not doing much and really are pointless unless there special abilities 
 are called for or you're involved in a gun fight which even then the crew members are near useless. 
 
  
  The godfather 2 is worth checking out and is a lot of fun... but its only about a couple of hours 
 of fun there's no depth. 
  
  My Advice, Rent before you buy. because chances are you will get tired of this game within the 
 rent period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalluKhan
Rating: 5.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:03 am PT
Review:  
  Firstly, i would like to ask is it wrong to have some expectations from a game ?????
  I mean common, EA Games making a game on such a huge legendary blockbuster critically acclaimed 
 movie The Godfather II. But this game is really an disappointing experience for me. 
  When i played The Godfather, first one in the series, i quite enjoyed it, because i never felt 
 as if i have played any game same like this. Although it had some idiotic sections. But this time 
 i felt i am playing the same game with different theme. No doubt that the game has some of the 
 spectacular scenes from the movie, but they are presented not that well like a movie fan would 
 want to be. Graphics of this game are like GBA !!! It doesn't look like an HD game. Comparing the 
 game with the fellow games of same genre is really disappointing 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Winky_9010
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:50 am PT
Review:  
  The moment I began to play The Godfather II I was pleased with what it had to offer. The new innovative 
 dons view and the ability to upgrade, welcome new mobsters into your family, and enjoy the simple 
 pleasures of blowing someones brains out. I find gamespots ratings to becoming more and more inaccurate 
 in the following months. I have played games of the same genre such as the overrated GTA IV, and 
 I personally have enjoyed The Godfather II much more. Playing through the game I have noticed several 
 *MINOR* bugs, and all of them seem to happen once or twice. I have never had a problem with the 
 AI of the crew members which gamespot claims to have horrendous AI. I admit the graphics are dated... 
 but overall the gameplay and action sequences are great. One more request to gamespot, start properly 
 rating games, The Godfather II in particular is a good game and the developers deserve better criticism 
 then that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: blinkknot
Rating: 6.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 12:09 am PT
Review:  So i went out and bought without waiting for a gamespot review. 
  
  I was hoping it would be a great game to compliment GTAiV, little did i know how deeply disappointed 
 i will be the moment i popped it into the ps3.
  
  The movement of the characters and cars are horrible. It feels like a cheap and dated game just 
 by experiencing that aspect of the game. 
  
  The graphics also leaves a bitter taste in my mouth, it really really isnt what it should be. Then 
 to top it of they have a demo of Dead Space on the game disc and if you compare the graphics of 
 DS with Godfather you can really see how bad the graphics are in Godfather 2.
  
  Although the AI of your enemies are retarded, it still is fun to blast at them with a huge array 
 of weapons. Plus nothing is more fun than grabbing a mobster, taking him to a ledge of a building 
 and then, with a flick of your control, throw him over the edge... good times. The Don's View is 
 pretty helpful and the menu makes it easy to send your soldiers around and upgrade them.
  
  The voice acting in the cut scenes and during game play are also lame. It doesnt feel right, i 
 really hoped for more if you compare it with the movie titles.
  
  So, i wont recommend this to anybody, unless you are really into these type of games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: corbin91
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 7, 2009 4:51 am PT
Review:  To me the only thing lacking in the the first one was the graphics and thankfully they stepped 
 them up. Everything else is as fun as i remember, don't get me wrong it's NOT just a cheap nock 
 off off the first. The story mode is amazing not sure what my play through time was but it took 
 some time. It's really fun i like the top view don mode and the upgrades. They give you control 
 of picking your family which is really cool. They have all new black hand techniques which are 
 so fun and i have spent hours just taking enemy rackets. If you even knida liked the first one 
 this game is for you, or even if you just liked the movie. The story holds true to the original 
 movie even the voices sound like the original actors. The only thing i haven't tried is the online 
 multi-player, but for me the story mode alone makes this game a must buy! 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
