-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Incredible Hulk
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/theincrediblehulk/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Smashing New York City is fun.
 Makes you feel like you're Hulk.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missions are repetitive.
 Way too many graphical issues.
 Lifeless story with horrendous ending.
 Boss fights are far too limiting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jun 12, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 5.6, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 7.1, 227 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sega
Developer: Edge of Reality
Genre: Action
Date: Jun 5, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
You won't like it when this simplistic, repetitive, and occasionally broken game makes you angry. 
 

  If there's one lesson to be learned from Sega's The Incredible Hulk movie-based game, it's that 
 Hulk is a big bully. When tasked with containing a radioactive outbreak that could potentially 
 eliminate all life within his city, he is just as likely to take a detour to destroy the Empire 
 State Building or bat pedestrians into the Hudson River. It's far more enticing to see how many 
 taxicabs you can blow up with one swing from a lamppost than to protect your pal Rick from a swarm 
 of angry robots. The Incredible Hulk is at its best when you unleash the full destructive power 
 of this terrifying giant to fulfill your own twisted desires. Ultimately, though, the repetition 
 of mission structures, severe graphical glitches, and game-halting bugs wrestle this 1,000-pound 
 monster to the ground. The sheer destructive joy of rampaging through New York is hard to ignore, 
 but it's even harder to ignore the problems plaguing your every step.  

  The lifeless story is told through either static screens displaying a tape recorder or poorly conceived 
 cutscenes in which every character looks like they were recently attacked by a hive of killer bees. 
 Your job is to save Manhattan, but who will save Manhattan from you as you inevitably cause far 
 more damage than you could ever hope to prevent? Edward Norton and other stars from the upcoming 
 Hulk movie lend their voices, but their lack of enthusiasm only further cements how boring this 
 tale of chemically created monsters truly is.  

           The simple joys of unprovoked destruction.      

  The Incredible Hulk plays in much 
 the same way as Radical's The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate Destruction, released three years ago. 
 You are set loose in a re-creation of New York City -- complete with landmarks from both real life 
 and the Marvel universe -- and you can choose exactly how you want to level this fine city youre 
 supposed to protect. You can turn any object you see lying around into a weapon of mass destruction, 
 or unleash an array of charge-based super moves by metabolizing your rage. Though there isn't a 
 lot of variety in either your combat moves or techniques to cause general chaos, being the biggest 
 jerk in all of New York provides simple, though brutal fun. The Incredible Hulk does a good job 
 of making you feel like a very angry monstrosity and, more importantly, it's quite satisfying to 
 imitate Hulk on a very bad day.  

  Aside from being a general nuisance, the most enjoyable element of Hulk is simply lumbering around 
 the city. You can walk casually down the sidewalk if you choose, but you're also given three Hulk-specific 
 maneuvers to make endlessly traveling from one neighborhood to another a joy. You can sprint down 
 streets, running over cars with impunity and taking corners like a cartoon armadillo. Or you can 
 bound from building to building. Here, you hold down A to charge up your jump while falling so 
 you can keep your massive frame in the air. Though jumping is great for long-distance travel, the 
 charge-up mechanic makes precision difficult. The last way to roam this world is by wall-climbing; 
 just thrust your meaty paws into buildings and hoist yourself to the top. This is slower than the 
 wall-run skill you had in Ultimate Destruction, but it does mirror the way Hulk chooses to climb 
 buildings in the comics.  

  While it is certainly fun to exist in this world, everything not directly related to jumping around 
 or causing devastating harm to the city either lacks imagination or feels unfinished. The multilayered 
 missions apply different names to the proceedings, but they all boil down to destroying or protecting 
 something important. Oftentimes, Hulk is little more than a giant bodyguard, forced to endure an 
 endless assault by helicopters and empty-headed soldiers while some puny human demands your protection. 
 A smattering of escort missions would have been fine to break up the flow of angry destruction, 
 but when half the tasks require you to risk life and limb to save some random person or object, 
 the game becomes tiresome.  

  The last three missions in Hulk each play out the same way, and they're in complete contrast to 
 the rest of the game. The fun of Hulk stems from the unrestrained freedom you have; from deciding 
 which mission to tackle to how you want to get there and, finally, what moves to use during said 
 mission, it's a blast utilizing your full repertoire to take down foes. But in these late battles, 
 you're matched up against opponents who can be harmed only by a handful of attacks. They aren't 
 particularly difficult, but it's tedious to have to perform the same few moves over and over again -- for 
 three straight battles! -- when the rest of your destructive tour had little to no restrictions. 

           The limited draw distance makes the city feel confining.      

  The graphics are startlingly incomplete. The character models outside of cutscenes are properly 
 detailed, but the city itself is overflowing with texture pop-in and severe draw-in. You can see 
 only a little way in front of you before buildings become hazy and dark blue. When you climb to 
 the top of the Chrysler Building, you are treated with a foggy view more reminiscent of a posteruption 
 Pompeii than modern-day New York City. This may be a clever homage to an unknown issue of  Hulk 
  in which he visited the eye doctor, but it makes for a suffocating video game. Even the lighting 
 effects suffer from draw-in. You can almost outrun the sun if you're quick enough. The wildly uneven 
 frame rate and obvious clipping issues complete the list of graphical travesties. And when the 
 action gets extremely hectic, Hulk is prone to crash. The game froze on us a number of times, when 
 the engine was overtaxed by a particularly aggressive bombardment of missiles.  

  It's never a good sign when the majority of a game's fun can be experienced within the first hour 
 of playtime. Though tearing through New York City like an angry bull makes for some satisfying 
 destruction, the overarching package is uneven and incomplete. The Incredible Hulk is a good idea 
 forced into a gameworld that simply cannot keep up with Hulk's aggressive nature. For comic book 
 completionists, there are plenty of unlockable comic book covers and playable Hulk variants. Everyone 
 else will find nothing more then a short afternoon of mindless fun.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Godwar7
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 8, 2009 1:23 am PT
Review:  This game can be really fun when you get into the rhythm of destroying tanks, and stuff, however, 
 it could have been extremely fun. 
  
  In other words it pretty good now, but it could have been a master peace. You see when it comes 
 to attack moves the came is pretty, good, but it needs alot more work on the physics aspect of 
 things. 
  
  For instance, why is it that the hulk can pick up a big rig over his head, but the game won't let 
 you pick up an army hummer, or a tank unless you hit it first.
  
  Also they limited the Hulk's distance in his jumping ability. They only let him jump a certian 
 hight when actually the Hulk can jump whole cities if he wishes (i. e. also look at the Ironman 
 game they were pretty good at not limiting how high Iron man can fly in the game) .
  
  It also doesn't make sence that you can destroy a building, but the rubble in the game.
  
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Teknboi912
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 12, 2008 10:41 pm PT
Review:  GameSpot doesnt seem to like movie video games. I've noticed that. Iron Man was a great movie, 
 the game was pretty cool to. Hulk good movie. I really liked the game. Its an open world, and you 
 can pretty much destroy everything in sight. Hulk has lots of power ups as well. Let me tell ya, 
 Hulk smash. I threw a bus like 100 yards, it was crazy, cars to and not to mention, villains. Open 
 world can get kinda lame, but when you can destroy anything and everything, then its all good. 
 Think of GTA with a monster, a good monster. Theres also no running up walls, Hulk is strong and 
 just grabs the walls and pulls himself up, all the way up. Is there a Building in your way, well 
 you could climb over it, or turn it into rubble, with Hulks special move. He yells, then SMASHES, 
 and down comes the building, or a few of them for that matter. That was a very cool part of the 
 game. If you like Hulk and like GTA, this is the game for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchetcooper1
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:15 pm PT
Review:  Oddly suprising, this game is pretty cool. Movie-based games tend not to be cool. But this one 
 I actually enjoyed. Yes, the missions are a bit tacky and annoying but it is enjoyable. Especially, 
 the great unlockable chracters such as Maestro, Green Scar, Grey Hulk, Classic Hulk, Hulbuster 
 Iron Man, Ironclad, and Abomination. Unfortunately for me, Red Hulk is only available for 360 versions. 
 The bottom line is: not a total disappointment, but it shouldn't be first on your list but if you 
 have the means I recommend purchase it. I'm a big Marvel and DC Comics fan so take it from me its 
 not a waste. Its better than Iron Man at certain angles. The flying is great in Iron Man and so 
 are the weapons, but as for H2H combat it sucked. Oh yeah, in Hulk you can also heal quickly too, 
 which is cool. If you all don't know Wolverine Origins is coming out as a movie and game. I sure 
 hope he'll get a similar healing factor. People try to say that that The Incredible Hulk: Ultimate 
 Destruction but I don't agree. Trust me, anybody on the virge of purchasing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NBAmaster33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 10:09 am PT
Review:  The movie "The Incredible Hulk" was great, so I thought this would be a good movie-based game after 
 I learned it had a sandbox, open world version of New York to explore, like Spider-Man 3. I was 
 right to an extent, but the game loses itself after a while.
  Gameplay -- The gameplay in this game is very fun. After beating a brief factory level, you're able 
 to explore an open world version of Manhattan. You can crush anything in your path (buildings, 
 cars, trees, street lamps, people) , which is a lot of fun. You can pick up a random man off the 
 street, chuck him into a building, and he still gets up. You can pick up a street lamp and swing 
 it like a baseball bat. Punching the bottom of the Empire State Building around will bring the 
 whole structure down. You can travel the subways, but you can't actually explore them. Pressing 
 the "back" button will bring up a map of the city, where you'll find subways, mission icons, and 
 buildings. Destroying all labeled buildings will give you an easy 50-point achievement. After a 
 while army units will try to kill you. You can't go to the Statue of Liberty or Ellis Island. You 
 can't go inside buildings, either. By pressing the b button you can climb up buildings. You can 
 charge a jump by holding down x and releasing it, which is a good way to travel through the city. 
 The free-roaming gets boring after a while, and so does destorying everything. Combat consists 
 of x and y, like a button-masher. You can throw things at enemies (which are tanks, soldiers, giant 
 robots) . The combat does get boring after a while. Missions are usually destory Base A, go to Base 
 B, destroy it, go to Base C, and so on.
  Graphics -- Where the Incredible Hulk starts to lose it is in graphics. The hulk looks great up close. 
 The buildings and cars look good up close. Explosions look nice and destroyed buildings are fine. 
 The problem with the graphics are popups and bugs. When you're on top of a building, other buildings 
 either look blurry or appear as little more than blue blocks. When sprinting down streets, buildings, 
 cars, and other things pop up out of nowhere. Cut scenes look blurry, and the actors -- especially 
 Liv Tyler -- look nothing like their real selves. The frame rate is also terrible. Overall, the Incredible 
 Hulk's graphics are a mixed bag.
  Story -- The story is what really kills Hulk. It's hard to follow the story in the Incredible Hulk. 
 Most of it is told through phones, Bruce Baxter's voice recorder, or poorly made cut scenes. There's 
 a seperate storyline of the Enclaves, people in robotic suits that try to destroy the hulk. The 
 sound in the game is good, though the voice acting is terrible. Baxter's voice doesn't have any 
 enthusiasm and the rest of the cast isn't that well, either.
  Gameplay: 8.3/10 -- exploring/destroying Manhattan is fun and the combat isn't spectacular, since 
 the controls aren't that good, but is pretty good for a movie game.
  Graphics: 7.1/10 -- the hulk looks great, and up close, the graphics are good. There are far too 
 many popups and the frame rate is terrible. Buildings look like blue, blurry boxes from far away.
 
  Story: 5.2/10 -- it's hard to follow the story in this game, and the voice acting is terrible. Go 
 see the movie for the real story.
  Final Thoughts: If the story and graphics were a bit better, my score would be 8.5 and this game 
 would actually be great. Unless you are a Hulk fan, this game is worth a rent or wait until the 
 price is a bit lower. With a little more effort to this game, "The Incredible Hulk" could've been 
 something truly great.
  
  Final Score: 7.3/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 7:52 am PT
Review:  Granted, I'm the kind of person that loves open environment, sandbox type games. Absolutely a fan 
 of them because of what they offer in terms of imagination, creativity, and complete freedom to 
 allow the player to become the character in the game. They definitely had the right idea, but the 
 excecution was far from perfect. 
  
  Graphics: Not much to really gawk at. Although the graphics were amped up in this latest installment 
 of Hulk games, textures on buildings and troops were very bland and repetitive. I love the way 
 the Hulk looks, but other than that, it's just another boring day in New York. 
  
  Sound: Also generic and repetitive. The explosions and basic sound effects aren't out of the ordinary 
 in addition to the lack of background music. I'm not sure, but it seemed like every so often, background 
 music would pop in and out, based on situations. Or maybe I was just hearing things... either way, 
 it proves that there wasn't anything particularly memorable about it. 
  
  Gameplay/controls: Controls were about the same as before, with the exception of how you execute 
 the super moves. Instead of doing the usual button combinations along with a longer hold on the 
 final button, they've moved it to somewhat of a mapped, 4 option choice on the D-pad. This certainly 
 does help when you dont remember how to do certain moves. This was a little more intuitive than 
 that last Hulk game. However, that's where the creative juices stop flowing. I hate that all the 
 moves are learned/upgraded based on acheivement markers. You don't earn points to later purchase 
 at your own discretion. So instead of picking and choosing which moves you want to upgrade, you 
 have to find out what tasks you must accomplish first in order to get what you want. I spent the 
 better half of the game searching for jump points to receive the jump distance upgrade, and unfortunately, 
 i never found all of them, leaving me a slightly handicapped green beast. 
  
  Multiplayer: Recently patched, it is glitchy, and simply annoying and painstakingly complicated 
 to play. After every "match", it sends you back out to the title screen to search for new matches 
 and opponents... if you can find them. Not once did I find a game to play, so I was forced to create 
 a game each time, waiting nearly 2 minutes before 1 other player would join in to play for about 
 2 minutes. Not my idea of fun or efficient gameplay.
  
  All in all, I was rather dissappointed with this game. I had so much fun with the previous Hulk 
 game on the PS2, maybe even so much fun that I set my expectations too high for this game. But 
 shouldn't our expectations for future games be greater and not lower? Rent if you must, but I wouldn't 
 recommend buying unless you've got time or money to waste. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RYAN_121
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 30, 2008 12:35 pm PT
Review:  the new game "the incredible hulk" was a HUGE let down for me 
  would of been good for the ps2 era but not for the ps3
  way to many graphic faults e. g
  *the 
 landscape sight barely goes a couple of yards in-front of you
  *bland "big areas" such as central park massive area nothing to do..
  *at one point i walked 
 through a building and found myself stuck and had to reset the game -.-
  etc
  basic game for kids but i think even they will get bored... give it 2 weeks 
  i bought the game 
 three days later i found myself getting my 40 pounds back 
  how ever there are "high lights" to this game as well such as unlockable characters including
 
  classic hulk
  gray hulk
  abomination
  the professor
  iron clad
  green scar (ps3 version only)
  red hulk (xbox version only 
  and also a few others however 
 these characters are all the same size and do nothing special 
  also , some of the combat feels good to land like a heavy punch into a 
  hulkbuster feels awesome
 
  levels range extremely far from the film and trying to find the latest mission can be quite frustrating 
 as your old ones are displayed on the map too 
  levels are extremely repetitive as like three different mission types 
  overall i was saddened 
 deeply by this game it almost feels like a third prize 
  which no one wants 
  hope i helped 
  
  Ryan sloan 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfrog123
Rating: 4.5
Date: Jun 21, 2008 2:53 pm PT
Review:  When I picked up The Incredible Hulk I thought "Wow, this is going to be cool, a Hulk game on a 
 next-gen console must be great" but just like every other movie tie in game, it was a huge disappointment.
 
  The first hour of playing this game was kinda good, running around New York smashing things was 
 fun, and I tried a few missions, but then I realised how repetitive it all is, I am sure that other 
 people will notice that missions consist of either protecting someone or smashing something to 
 oblivion. It is like that the developers got really lazy, and thought that gamers wont mind smashing 
 things for hours, and sure it was fun to do that in past Hulk games, but back then it worked, it 
 had VARIETY. 
  The graphics are ok to a point, Hulk is designed well and he looks powerful, but his surroundings 
 just seem lifeless, buildings are bland, and they have no variety when you are climbing them. The 
 damage effects are cool but get old fast, and I never understand why the people driving their cars 
 just smash straight into a building, sure seeing a huge angry green behemoth rampaging down a street 
 would be bad, but would anyone just randomly crash into a wall?
  If anyone else has this game, they would probably agree that climbing to the top of buildings is 
 a big let down, I climbed a building to look at the view, but all I saw was blue. Just dark misty 
 blue. It reminded me of the Spiderman games on the PS1 where the orange mist was everywhere, but 
 at least that had something to do with the plot.
  
  Another thing that annoys me is the robot people who follow you constantly wherever you go (apologies 
 for not knowing the proper name, I haven't watched the film yet) I end up just climbing a building 
 and when they come close I grapple them and throw them off the building. Job done. You would have 
 thought that the AI would be smarter than that, instead of having mindless enemies running towards 
 you constantly just begging to be killed.
  
  The boss fights are even more disappointing, one of the first bosses is a huge robot, and it was 
 an impressive sight but then I found out how easy it was to take down, it was a big let down.
 
  
  The cut-scenes are probably the worst I have ever seen on a next-gen console, the characters are 
 poorly animated, and most of them just say one line or say their lines I a really unenthusiastic 
 way. Seeing those scenes with characters saying one sentence just made me wonder why they bothered 
 to put it into the game, all it did was waste the time I had for smashing stuff up with a loading 
 screen and then a few seconds of cut-scene. 
  
  One good thing that I have to say about the game is the when you hit enemies, they get sent flying, 
 and it was amusing to see how far I could send an enemy. Also hitting vehicles with a lamppost 
 was cool, sending a bus flying into a group of taxis is great fun, and it was tempting to not carry 
 on with the story and just see how much cars I can blow up in one move. 
  
  In my opinion this game is a total let down; if you are not a Marvel fan then just steer clear 
 of this game. But I think even Marvel fans would be disappointed with this. The past Hulk games 
 like Ultimate Destruction are ten times more fun and are a lot cheaper too, they might not be on 
 par graphics wise nowadays but they are a lot more fun to play than this one.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DeadBoy660
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:21 pm PT
Review:  So lets be clear, yea Hulk Ultimate Destruction was awesome, best Hero/movie/comic game of the 
 last generation, no question. If you don't have it by now, go find it.
  
  And now we are here at the dawn of the new generation of games, and without question The Incredible 
 Hulk is the best Hero/Movie/Comic game out!
  
  Open city, lots of side quests, unlockable content, senseless violence, smash, smash, smash. Because 
 what does Hulk do? HULK SMASH! if you think smashing the buildings, cars, and people of New York 
 City gets boring, you are mistaken my friend!
  
  Sure Ultimate Destruction did some things better, but Incredible Hulk does most everything better 
 than the previous. I'll take Gray Hulk over Canada Flag boxers as an unlockable goodie. 
  
  Graphics: I give it a 7.5, maybe 8. Yea the draw sucks a bit, but what sandbox game doesn't? Everything 
 is smashingly good, lots of details ( Yea slow to load in sometimes but you should be busy smashing 
 something, not checking to see if the texture in the hunk of rock you just threw has filled in 
 yet. ) And the Hulk looks great!
  
  Sound: Lets go with a 8 here. Good soundtrack, great voice acting, and the explosions!! good lord 
 the explosions!!! I do wish they added a Hulk Roars at stuff button though.
  
  Controls: 8. Pretty much the same as Ultimate destruction. I like how now he doesn't run along 
 walls Prince of Persia style, but scrambles up them leaving the street below covered in rubble. 
 The jumps a little unwieldy, but cmon, hes jumping not flying.
  
  Gameplay: 10. It never gets old, smash, smash, smash, lather, rinse, repeat with glee!
  
  Replay 
 Value: 10. Massive amounts of feats and bonus content. Keeps you playing long after the story mode.
 
  
  All I can say is I had a choice, Metal gear 4 or the Hulk. I bought the Hulk and have zero regrets. 
 Oh I'll play MGS4 of course, but for now, HULK SMASH! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Budwize
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:34 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game on its release day. I have always been a hulk fan and like many of you... suffered 
 through the various incarnations of Hulk Games, the worst being the original movie tie-in game. 
 This one was much different and I think if Ultimate Destruction had never existed this game would 
 have sucked because they obviously borrowed alot from it. I played U. D. from begining to end about 
 5 times. I enjoyed it that much so I had to give this one a try because its on a next gen console 
 and it had to rock. My expectations were for the game to be like U. D. with some movie tie-in, and 
 for the graphics to be like U. D. on steroids.
  What I got was about what I expected. Its very similar to U. D. as far as the basic game.. being 
 able to free roam, raise heck and take part in missions as you go. The City and overall graphics 
 are really good unless you are a sight-seer. If you are on top of buildings you dont get a great 
 view beyond 12 city blocks but this game isnt about sight-seeing. There are no obvervation binoculars 
 in this game for obvious reasons. If you want to sight-see, play GTA4. 
  The biggest changes are the rage meter and how you gain the ability to hulk out and perform what 
 we called in U. D. a "critical thunderclap or ground slam". That has changed alot, and in my opinion 
 when you do earn those moves they arent nearly as destructive or impressive as they were in U. D. 
 The missions are solid, not overly hard and well thought out but my biggest complaint would have 
 to be the movie sequences. The voice over and the movies themselves look like something you would 
 see on a ps2. The facial texturing and the acting is very bland. In U. D. the movie cut scenes were 
 really good, the voice over was top notch and gave the game alot of feel. In this Game, Banner 
 sounds like he took alot of no-doze to keep the Hulk at bay.
  Bottom line, if you liked U. D. for its destruction and mission quality...... you will love this 
 as much if not a little more. All buildings can be brought down not just a few select ones. The 
 downside to raising hell on this game is the response from the authorities.... its constant and 
 cannot be stopped. Once you attain a wanted level it will only increase because Hulk cant walk 
 two feet without snapping a mailbox out of the concrete.... the cops, tanks, and choppers are relentless. 
 In U. D. if you got a response team on your butt, you wiped them out, and the emergency was over. 
 Not on this one. They keep coming. If you have the patience you can climb a building and try to 
 lay low until your meter goes down but they send those flying bots up and killing them keeps your 
 meter high. The only escape is to find a subway marker, and hyperspace to another subway port.... then 
 your wanted level is wiped clean. Another option is to just run from them. I haven't encountered 
 any enemy yet that can keep up with the Hulk when he is jumping and running at full tilt.... but 
 if you stop they will catch up to you by the time you start beating up more taxi cabs. They also 
 go away during misions and mini-games.
  I know there are alot of expectations to see the hulk in a GTA4 NewYork city and if you're thinking 
 about buying this game for that reason only, you should probably rent it first. If you do, be ready 
 for some late fees as you wont be able return it on time. 
  Im not taking anything away from this version of New York. The City in comparision to U. D. is way 
 better. The cars, buildings and overall detail are definately next-gen quality.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: robert9207
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 10, 2008 4:47 pm PT
Review:  The Incredible Hulk (TIH) - PS3
  
  Game Presentation [6 / 10]
  TIH is presented to the player in a fairly straightforward manner. Cut scenes are played out to 
 loosely following the events from the movie. Waypoints can be set by the player for other tasks 
 and various goal destinations that slightly venture from the main story's path. These waypoints 
 are accomplished by simply pressing the "Select" button, and then L1 / R1 respectively to being 
 up a grin of the city.
  
  Visuals [6 / 10]
  The various Hulk character models look really nice. The city looks relatively descent with only 
 slight little pop ins here and there. I did notice a few annoying clipping errors when the Hulk 
 was in tight areas between buildings.
  
  Audio [8 / 10]
  The main movie actors reprise their roles. The Hulk growls. Guns fire. Sonic cannons go BOOM.
 
  
  Personality [8 / 10]
  Who is this game for? Why did Sega produce this title? Critics will say to cash in. Cynics will 
 say to unload more crap on idiot consumers like me. Well, I'm thirty-four years old. For me, The 
 Incredible Hulk was a staple in my young life. I can remember being a kid on Friday night in the 
 late 70's. Getting my bath early, grabbing my Bo & Luke action figures, curling up on the couch 
 beside my mom cross-stitching something, and hearing the rustle of my dad turning the pages of 
 the newspaper. That was my Friday night as a little boy. I watched The Dukes of Hazard. I laughed. 
 After the final credits of the Dukes rolled, it was a quick trip to the bathroom and the 'fridge, 
 because show time was about to commence. 9:00. Three words: The Incredible Hulk. If this was you. 
 If you remember watching Bill Bixby go through that "startling metamorphosis," and thinking it 
 was the coolest thing ever. Then I want you to go buy this game. Who is this game for? Sega made 
 this game for me. And for those of you out there like me.
  I have read from a lot of critics complaining that TIH gets repetitive, the graphics aren't next-gen, 
 the game play could be better, etc. I cannot, now will I, argue with those criticisms of the game. 
 Watch the old TV show. It isn't HD. Every episode started and ended the same way. That's the definition 
 of repetition. But who cared? Who cared in 1978 and who cares in 2008? If you look at my rankings 
 for everything but the game's personality, you would think that I found TIH boring and contrite. 
 Quite the contrary. I love the game. I can pop it in, and for a few hours forget about everything 
 else around me and just beat the snot out of mindless gaming pixels. TIH is a throwback game that 
 will make you smile for a few hours a day while you remember what it was like to be little. And 
 lastly, if you happen to be lucky enough to be a parent of a kid about five to seven years old, 
 go ahead and let them play. What you'll find is that same wonder and excitement you had twenty 
 years ago will come out again. And that's what this game is for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJames3dCG
Rating: 6
Date: Jun 7, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  This game has instant appeal in the way that you can smash everything you touch. Which is to be 
 expected from a hulk game, but the game is not as incredible as you may have been lead to believe. 
 Most things can be destroyed by simply walking into them, which severely cheaps then feel of tearing 
 something apart. Half the fun in destroying something is gained by taking more than one wack at 
 it. Also the controls and camera are weak at best. Usually you find yourself staring at a wall 
 while the hulk destroys something that you can't even see. The hulk's jump is probably the most 
 awkward of all the control schemes. Many times, you may just want to hop over to where an enemy 
 is but you end up flying far past him. For long distance jumping this feature works well, but in 
 the midst of a battle when your threat level gets higher, you won't be able to move the way you 
 need to when a jump is involved.
  
  The hulk does look more detailed compared to the "Ultimate Destruction" game, which is the main 
 thing that sucked me in to buying this game. But the environments look like something from the 
 last gen games rather than the current gen. Also the fact that this is a movie based game, limits 
 the options that the developers have in what they could do with it, which is obvious from the start.
 
  
  The long and short of it is, the hulk looks good, it's easy to smash stuff and there's plenty to 
 do. If that fits your fancy then this game is for you. But if your looking for a continuation from 
 the PS2 version of the Hulk Ultimate Destruction, you will be terribly let down. Save your money 
 and go find the PS2 game, you'll be glad you did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stinkyfriend
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 7, 2008 3:27 pm PT
Review:  i was acutally surprised for this game i thought it was gonna be a another iron man game. the hulk 
 looks great and his motion yea may not be the best looking buildings but for a hulk game its great 
 i love it actually i just wish you could transform into the hulk thats the only thing missing. i 
 love how he climbs the buildings cant wait to get all of the uprgrades there are alot of upgrades 
 to get i couldnt belive it its more then spider mans i think for being a movie game they alot more 
 then i was gonna exspect it makes you feel like your strong like the hulk when he yells through 
 out the game very good game i think everyone should play this game if you dont want to spend 60 
 dollars then dont just rent it but i bought it i kinda figured it was gonna be good anyways its 
 just a good game. i dont know what eles to say ha 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roger7660
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 26, 2008 5:15 am PT
Review:  the incredible hulk is an awesome game. the game play is good and action packed. really fast paced 
 game. there are tons of enemies to fight in this game and lots of tough super villains to fight, 
 like the u foes. which are really tough to beat. this game rocks. 
  i give 7 out of 10 for the game play. gameplay is as i said awesome. 7 out of 10 for the graphics. 
 graphics are really good. the hulk and everything else in this great game looks really good. 8 
 out of 10 for the sound. the music is great, the sound effects are sharp, and the voice acting 
 is top notch. 7 out of 10 for the value and replay value. its fun to replay through this game. 
 i can't get eneough of this game. 8 out of 10 for the tilt. the controlls are quite good as it 
 is easy to controll the hulk in this game. so overall i give this good game a 7 out of 10. rent 
 the game first to see if you like it and if you do then buy it. its worth every penney of the $59.99 
 that it costs. i've rented it and now i'm going to buy it real soon. this game is spectacular and 
 really fun to play. on further playing this game i found it to be broken at times and really repetitive. 
 the game also freezes every so often. this sucks because just when you almost have a mission finished 
 the game freezes on me. for f**k sakes. its no trouble to see that this is a movie game as the 
 graphics just pop up as you travel throughout the city. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
