-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Lord of the Rings: Conquest
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/lordoftheringspandemicprojectworkingtitle/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fight epic battles in iconic locations.
 Evil campaign is morbidly delightful.
 Cutscenes and music create dramatic atmosphere.
 Playing as trolls, ents, and heroes is exciting.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Battles often boil down to button mashing.
 Many cheap ways to die.
 Playing campaign solo can be aggravatingly hard.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 14, 2009
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 5.5, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 440 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: Pandemic Studios
Genre: Fantasy Action Adventure
Date: Jan 13, 2009
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Lord of the Rings: Conquest is an exciting and action-packed way to experience Middle-earth, 
 provided that you have the patience and fortitude to shoulder a few frustrating burdens. 

  The Lord of the Rings universe is full of memorable battles. No matter whether they are staged 
 in a cramped burial chamber or on a vast, open plain, each clash of arms teeters between exultant 
 triumph and agonizing defeat. In The Lord of the Rings: Conquest, you'll experience your fair share 
 of both. There are abundant thrills in both the good and evil campaigns, from attacking oliphaunts 
 with catapults on the Pelennor Fields to burning the ringed ramparts of Minas Tirith. However, 
 the frantic combat can often devolve into a button-mashing frenzy as you try to avoid the many 
 varieties of death (some unpleasantly cheap) that await you on the battlefield. These frustrations 
 may prove to be too high a cost of entry for many, but if you're willing to brave the pitfalls 
 (or are a big Lord of the Rings fan) , then Conquest has many hours of satisfying and immersive 
 action for you to enjoy.  

           Could you keep your cool if a flaming ent was about to smash you to bits with your dead 
 comrade-in-arms?      

  The best hours you'll spend in Conquest will be in the campaigns. The War of the Ring campaign 
 puts you on the ground in the most memorable battles from the books, taking a few detours from 
 canon along the way. The well-crafted, immersive environments mirror those of the movies, from 
 the filthy industrial pits of Isengard to the crumbling walls of Osgiliath, and the score draws 
 on themes from the movies to make battles feel more dramatic. As fun as the War of the Ring campaign 
 is, there's an exciting novelty to playing as the forces of Mordor in the Rise of Sauron campaign. 
 In this alternate storyline, the ring bearer fails in his mission and the once-ebbing tide of evil 
 flows forth across Middle-earth, scouring all in its path. Cutscenes between levels use footage 
 from the movies to craft a believable narrative around your dark exploits, and it's morbidly thrilling 
 to destroy beloved locations and heroes. The last level in particular is so delightfully sinister 
 that you'll likely find yourself cackling with malicious glee.  

  During most of the battles, you'll be fighting as one of the rank-and-file soldier classes. The 
 warrior, the archer, the mage, and the scout all have their own unique strengths, weaknesses, and 
 special attacks. From the mage's firewall to the warrior's whirlwind sweep, each class can perform 
 a number of pleasingly powerful special attacks by drawing on energy gained from fighting and surviving. 
 As deadly as each class can be, they are also vulnerable. An archer can easily mow down a warrior 
 from a distance, but if the warrior manages to close the gap, there isn't much that the archer 
 can do to survive. Close combat is brutal and chaotic, and once you get knocked down, it can be 
 very hard to get up. Because fights favor the soldier who lands the first strike, they often become 
 frantic button mash-offs. This can be tense and exciting, but it also makes defeat bitterer than 
 it ought to be.  

  Working with other players is a great way to shore up your defenses, and The Lord of the Rings: 
 Conquest features a cooperative campaign mode for two players, both locally and online. However, 
 when you're going it alone, you'll find that not only is friendly AI unhelpful, but the enemy AI 
 also sees you as public enemy number one. You'll have to destroy the lion's share of the enemy 
 forces and be vigilant for attacks that can kill you instantly (such as fire arrows, backstabs, 
 and anything a troll or ent does) . You have a limited number of lives, and with so many ways to 
 die, they can go quickly. Restarting the level is mildly tedious, but it can be a blessing in disguise 
 when a mismatch between friendly and enemy spawn rates has you facing an insurmountable tide of 
 foes.  

           If Gimli stuck an axe in your eye, you'd try to bite his face off too.      

  It can 
 be frustrating to be a grunt, so it's fortunate that The Lord of the Rings: Conquest offers many 
 ways to make your battlefield presence more formidable. The simplest of these involve mounted weapons 
 such as catapults and ballistas: powerful yet destructible machines of war that can be a blast 
 while they last. You can also mount horses or wargs and ride through enemy ranks, sword a-swinging. 
 Taking control of an ent or a troll lets you grab, smash, and throw enemies to your heart's content, 
 and rampaging around on a massive, lumbering oliphaunt is unwieldy fun. Occasionally throughout 
 the campaign you will also get the chance to play as heroes, such as Gandalf, Aragorn, Sauron, 
 and the balrog. These units are powerful versions of the normal classes with their own unique special 
 attacks that let you wreak all sorts of havoc. There is a pleasing variety of heroes featured throughout 
 the campaigns, enough that there is an entire online mode dedicated to hero play.  

  Hero Deathmatch is just one of the 16-player online modes available in Conquest. There is also 
 normal Team Deathmatch, as well as Lord of the Rings versions of Capture the Flag and Territories. 
 Everyone chooses a soldier class to begin with, but the many maps feature the aforementioned machines 
 and mounts to spice things up. When a team reaches a certain percentage of points needed for victory, 
 the top-scoring player will be offered the opportunity to spawn as a hero. It can be tough to break 
 a team's momentum at that point, but success really depends on the players' willingness to work 
 together. Playing against human opponents is both more exciting and more frustrating. It's more 
 satisfying to work with human teammates to kill characters with human minds behind them, but those 
 same human minds are more capable of getting the best of you with aggravating combat techniques. 
 This makes online battles legitimately challenging, so you'll want to polish your skills in the 
 campaigns first.  

  War is messy, and The Lord of the Rings: Conquest isn't a clean gaming experience. Combat can be 
 as exasperating as it is exhilarating, and playing solo can be a trying endeavor. Nevertheless, 
 these pitfalls are somewhat compensated for by two epic campaigns that draw you into a rich world 
 in new and exciting ways. Fans of this world will get the most out of The Lord of the Rings: Conquest, 
 but gamers who are looking to battle in an epic setting and willing to weather some frustrating 
 elements will find plenty of excitement on this journey through Middle-earth.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (41 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrBrosco
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2009 2:40 am PT
Review:  You play in the Star Wars Battlefront type game using plain characters ( you get to occasionally 
 choose to be a hero, lol) from LOTR. Alot of the elements are taken right from SWBF, including 
 the character selection screen, the spawn map, CPs, even the color of the text that says VICTORY 
 is the same color. Except , instead of shooting blasters , you hack and slash ( Samurai Warriors 
 style ) using one of the different characters like mage, soldier etc.
  
  I have always like the SWBF games and when I found out about this I couldn't wait because every 
 other LOTR game I ever played never really let me battle the way I wanted to. Some stupid combos 
 or something that took away the feeling of control. 
  
  This games gives you 3 hit buttons and a modifier and allows you to chain together attacks anyway 
 you want to. Hack&slash games are just fun because I just want to KILL KILL KILL , and this game 
 lets you do exactly that. I got it used for $32 at Gamestop and that seems like the perfect price. 
 
  
  I think alot of reviews depend on the price of the game. I might be a little disappointed if I 
 had paid $60 for this and expect more from it. Luckily I waited for this and it turned out to be 
 a good decision. I think the makers of these games need to start asking the people who test the 
 games what they would be want to pay for them. I don't know if they do that already or if they 
 don't listen or what.
  
  This is an enjoyable game for those who like (or love) both SWBF and Samurai Warriors as this combines 
 the best of both of those games. Sometimes you just wanna pop a game in and hack through hordes 
 of mindless trolls to relieve stress.
  
  Rent this game before you buy it ( of course ) and give it a try. To me this is a keeper 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jacko-147
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 12, 2009 3:10 pm PT
Review:  well there is alot to say about this game and that there are some good points and some bad ones 
 but overall makes for an interesting, fun play.
  
  the campaigne in my opinion is so much better played in multiplay mostly split screen i had so 
 much more fun playing it with a friend than by myself. There are 2 good solid campaignes one for 
 the good side and another for the bad both are very intertaining. The only anoying thing is that 
 once deafeted you have to start the level again instead of starting from a checkpoints but you 
 stedily progress through.
  
  there are a nice range of playable characters such as ents and trols and in certain parts you are 
 given the option to play as a special character wich range from legolas to souron. The dissapionting 
 thing is that the strength of characters apart from 1 or 2 dont change so much to make a huge impact 
 and sometimes the movelist seems a bit crappy and button mashy.
  
  As for the online play its pretty good with a decent range of levels and maches to keep you intertained 
 for hours.
  
  however once completed theres not much to keep you playing and after a while gets a bit boring 
 i strongly recommend renting before you think of perchacing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ShadowRaider087
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 4, 2009 5:57 am PT
Review:  Its a fun game. The game gets a little boring after a while though. If you buy it just to get trophies, 
 it's really really hard to get a few of them. I don't know what is in the expansion pack so... 
 if anyone knows whats in the expansion pack please tell me. I thought the game would be more like 
 battlefront where you can play a conquer the world, or galaxy. The game would have been much better 
 if they added that, so the creators should add that as an expansion it would make a lot more people 
 play the game. Even playing online the game gets boring over a period of time. I would suggest 
 to rent the game first. It's fun for a while than boring than fun again and then boring. If it 
 was more like Battle Front where you can conquer the map I would play the game a lot more, give 
 it a better rating, and the game would be a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cooldude1888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2009 4:41 am PT
Review:  Well it seems to me that everyone hates this game. Why? I mean, yeh its not amazing but it is pretty 
 decent and the epic battles are a load of fun. Now LOTR Conquest is developed by Pandemic, the 
 developers who brought us the Destroy all Humans franchise and the LOTR. The previous LORT games 
 have focused you on battling through lines of enemies to get to a certain place. The certain places 
 are usually checkpoints and tyhen theres a different place you need to go to which is blocked by 
 enemies. Instead, this game is focused on tank the daily crap out of them all. Thats basically 
 it. It focuses on just killing every enemy until you've got an objective. The demo sees you mainly 
 playing multiplayer. It also gives you a tutorial of which you will find out also brings you mainly 
 into beating the crap out of every enemy on the battlefield. Its actually a bit of a guilty pleasure 
 which I often enjoy. Pandemic get a load of critisicm and crap thrown towards them but I dont know 
 why. I mean, they are a great developer who bring you free roaming games on with epic fights and 
 battles. They also borught up the Destroy all Humans frnchise as well which I love. Now, the multiplayer 
 on this game is a bit crap I have to admit. Most of my attention has been brought to the story 
 mode offline. The online is crap because of the small amount of players and all the unrealistic 
 magical spells that the wizards cast. Now Im a huge fan of the LOTR's. I've got all the books and 
 films and everything about them. If you like epic battles on huge maps then this is the game for 
 you but you will get bored of it before long. I'm beggining to get a bit bored of it already. Why 
 cant they just make a LOTR game where its all free roaming where you can go anywhere in the LOTR 
 world whenever you want and do whatever you want. Why? Why? I hope there is in the future but this 
 game needs more polish. Not that stylish and not as fun, its a good game but needs a serious makeover 
 like hell. The multiplayer needs to be dusted and the story mode needs a bit of blood and gore 
 added in. Thanks for reading my review. Hope you enjoyed it. Bye! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HEARTLESSxWOLF
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 8, 2009 10:04 pm PT
Review:  This game is base on the battle in LOTR movie but added more. This game was good and good for the 
 price range, and people who is a fan of the movie would like it. Just saying now its nothing like 
 star wars battle front because it has a better action and fight style.
  
  When i played this games it was good. i only played the good side team, and the warrior class is 
 odd but easy to use. The story mode is SO ODD because the battle are switch and doesn't come in 
 order. The good thing is splitscreen action is fun because it adds more fun to the game and you 
 won't be lonely playing. i still want to play the dark side of the game so i can enjoy the game 
 
  
  The online play is fun but freaking madness. people will get mad because everyone uses the same 
 class. the mage is sooo hard to kill and powerful its unfair to battle against. the tree and the 
 troll is hard to kill and they' re always healing them self. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:34 am PT
Review:  Reading this review would be reading why i rated it a 7.0. Some things are done great, some are 
 done.. not so great. The creator of this game is also the developers for Mercenaries 2. Mercenaries 
 2 together with this game probably has on-par quality for a video game.
  EA publishes many games this is one of those medicore titles, one made strictly for fans, because 
 it doesn't do much component neat as a 3rd person fighting game like dynasty warriors.
  
  Graphics:
  
  Arrr.. graphics are slight a just acceptable, they don't look too good but charactors 
 are well modelled and rendered. The camera is a bit hard to turn at times. 
  
  One part they did really good was the environments, they look really similar to those in the movie. 
 There's also all the baddies heroes in the game, each as i've said are neatly modelled. Overall 
 the graphics isn't bad, some things looks good like accuracy of facial features, whereas it doesn't 
 reach the top level due to bland and edgy graphics.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  If you played dynasty warriors, this is it. It play similar to dynasty warriors, they different 
 between the two is the heros you get to use. Instead of keep using heros, you use normal creeps, 
 but when the time comes, you get to use heros which u can choose to or not.
  
  What this does better than dynasty warriors, is the storytelling and range of attacks. For storyline, 
 they abstracted part of the movies and put them into the movie. The storyline flows good but there 
 are jumps here and there and only concentrate the attacks. Like dynasty warriors, you spawn, but 
 this game you have spawn point u can take. Complete the objective and you win the mission.
  
  For attacks, you have mages, archers, sneakers?, warriors. Every class are quite different. 
 Mages could use lightning attacks, warriors sword, sneakers dagger archer with arrow and thats 
 whats fun. Other than normal attack, you sort of have special attacks such as poison, fire and 
 multishots for archers.
  
  The one thing the gameplay lacks is the ability to hit multiple enemies, sometimes the game feels 
 slow. As in you hit creeps 1 by 1. It would be more fun with dynasty warrior's formula.
  
  Audio:
  
  Nothing exciting to talk about here, you usual medicore audio quality. The narrative 
 is irritating though. The atmosphere is pretty good..
  
  Conclusion:
  
  A game for lovers of the movie. It's worth a try playing but don't spent too much money on this 
 game cause it's replayability remains a question. The online is laggy, the playable charactors 
 feels similar with each other, such as gandalf and normal mages. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aboal3z
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 2, 2009 7:08 am PT
Review:  It is googd war game it have all heroes from the game and graphics is nice and my rating is nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice 
 nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice nice I am Snaaaaaaaaake 
::::::

::::::
UserName: superfly360
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 27, 2009 3:11 pm PT
Review:  i don't see why this gets bad reviews. its great
  
  you play as either a sword wielding warrior, an archer, a cheap scout, or a mage. the warrior is 
 ok but the ai for the other warrior will constantly cheap shot you. the archer is pretty good but 
 he has very little health and his kick is delayed so if you get charged by a warrior you are most 
 likely screwed. however his head shots are very useful. the scout is ok but his bombs will miss 
 a lot and his attacks are weak except for his backstab which is almost always an instant kill. 
 the mage is in my opinion the best because they're fireball attack is powerful, they're lightning 
 can chain to more than 1 opponent, and they can heal.
  
  the main problem with this game is the extreme amount of cheap deaths. you can be owning with a 
 hero when all of a sudden a scout kills you instantly. the dragons, oh the dragons, they SUCK. 
 1 time i was getting ready to kill gandolf with sarumen and right when i started (i had .5 seconds 
 to react) i was killed by a dragon. they also never seem to attack your opponents. another cheap 
 way to die is the enemy warriors. they never use 1 attack. they use 6-8 attacks even on the easiest 
 difficulty. sure they give you a second to run away but since your guy has to lay on the ground 
 for 2 seconds, roll over twice, lay for a second and then get up. this happens EVERY FRIGGEN TIME 
 you get atacked by a warrior because you always fall down. its even cheaper when 3 warriors kill 
 you instantly with 1 attack. these things don't make the game more hard, they make it frusterating.
 
  
  the only control problems i found is that you can't automatically sprint or press a button to. 
 you have to run for 5-10 seconds and then you will sprint. another is that the mage's controls 
 are unresponsive and delayed. you will constantly find yourself tapping a button so you can use 
 it.
  
  the strong point in this game is the multiplayer. the scouts aren't too cheap on this mode because 
 there are not a lot of opponents to block your sight of the halo-like cloke that they use and you 
 can kill them faster. the attacks are more powerful which is good and bad. its good because even 
 the most skilled player can die if he isn't careful. its bad because now the mage's fireball can 
 kill you in seconds now, headshots are twice as devastating, your even more screwed if you get 
 knocked down, and the warriors axe throw is frusterating.
  
  overall this game is very frusterating but good. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JAK3434
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 26, 2009 2:49 pm PT
Review:  Just like I said before they give this game to much crap. This is definitly a game that is so much 
 like battlefront but since its made by the same people, thats fine.
  
  The balence in this game for charictors is amazing, all the charictors have there strenths and 
 weaknesses. In Conquest there might not be as many charictors but they are so much better then 
 the charictors in Battlefront (such as the storm troopers, they can only shoot, and through genades. 
 
  
  The levels in this game are really good, all of them are big and very fun to play at. But some 
 are to big and are way to unfair for there archers in the good whey, but there are some that so 
 small and cramped for the archers that its hard to shot.
  
  The campain modes are ok I played them it took me 4 hours to beat both of them, both. The eveil 
 champain is better but still. The boss battles are so easy, all you have to do is be a scout and 
 backstab them, the only boss that you cant do that for is the Balrouge ( witch is kind of stupid.
 
  
  O and something funny happend when I was playing with a friend (lampshade820) when he was playing, 
 got to be Sarumon, and right when he appird he was grabed by a felbeast, he still had the purple 
 crap around him. O it was funny. So watch out for eagles and felbeast!!!!!!!!!!!! (_Just like I 
 said before they give this game to much crap. This is definitly a game that is so much like battlefront 
 but since its made by the same people, thats fine.
  
  
  O something funny happend when I was playing with my friend (lampshade820) . He got to be Saurumon, 
 and right when he got to play as him he was picked out by a felbeast. He still had the purple aura (crap) 
 around him O it wa funny. So basicly watch out for eagles and felbeast!!!!!! (= 
::::::

::::::
UserName: unbentonslaught
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 23, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  This game is the game lord of the rings fans were waiting for! The graphics could use a little 
 work though. Lord of the Rings conquest is a game where you play as a normal foot soldier and fight 
 orcs or humans depending on which side you choose. The classes are pretty simple, mage uses magic 
 but is weak to basicaly any attack but has a shield, scout is stealthy and has a back stab attack 
 and is somewhere in the middle when it comes to its life, warrior is strong and very durable but 
 can be picked off by an archer easily, archer can easily head shot any of these classes but when 
 it comes to close quarter combat they are doomed. The game goes by the movies so the plot is that 
 you play through some famous battles BUT in the evil campaign (which you earn after you beat the 
 normal campaign) you play through what would happen if Frodo failed and the ring was reclaimed 
 by sauron (the last level of which is so awesome, you actually get to PILLAGE the Shire!) . Other 
 than that the game is basicaly a lord of the rings battlefront. Over all this game gets a 9.0!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Reaper469
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 23, 2009 9:09 am PT
Review:  LOTR Conquest is, for the most part, a very fun and action packed game that should please most 
 LOTR fans, but it does have its flaws which really hindered this game from being all it could be.
 
  First off, the campaigns can be very frustrating and tedious, as you actually have lives, and 
 there are many cheap and just plain unfair ways to die. Some examples are being grabbed by a Ringwraith's 
 fell beast and dropping you, which is instant death. Or, playing as the mighty Sauron and dominating 
 the battlefield, only to be backstabbed by a scout, also instant death. The campaigns are far too 
 short, and will take experienced gamers less than 3 hours to beat.
  This game does have its positives though. The campaigns, though short, are fun, and the Battlefront 
 type of combat is great. You get to relive all the classic battles of the books and movies. Playing 
 as the heroes like Aragorn, Gandalf, and Legolas to name a few is also fun, as you will pretty 
 much own the battlefield. The evil campaign is probably the best part of the game. You finally 
 get to find out what would've happened had Sauron won. Playing as evil heroes, such as the Witch 
 King, Saruman, Sauron, and yes, the Balrog, and killing everything in sight is just plain great.
 
  This game is great for any LOTR fan, and will provide hours of fun, as long as you have the patience 
 to put up with a few flaws. In my opinion, it's worth a rent, but not a buy.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dulichild
Rating: 3
Date: Feb 19, 2009 6:57 pm PT
Review:  This game was terrible. As a rip-off from Star Wars Battle Front, just stop, don't, and run. Single 
 player was boring as staring at a screen with nothing on it. There are only few classes to choose 
 from. Instant action and offline multiplayer are as much use you are going to get from this game. 
 Online Multiplayer that is another story. First to even play multiplayer you need to create an 
 EA account. Stop EA I don't wan't any spam from you I already bought your game leave me alone. 
 Than after that you can join an EA server, public server, host/join a friend server. EA Servers 
 are ranked, but there is no need to fuss over that seeing there arean't levels. By ranked they 
 mean leaderboards. So that is useless. Than you have playing a multiplayer game on the EA server. 
 You can be Good Team or Evil Team. WOW EA ORIGINAL ENOUGH!!! Once you select a team you can choose 
 classes. Scouts are=not noob. **** noob. Actually every class except for mages are not noobs. Mages 
 can fully heal themselves. One-hit kills and can block out all arrow/thrown objects. Wow.*sigh* 
 After buying the game and then playing it I got so pissed off by mages. I bought this game at 8:13PM
 
  and now its only 9:54PM on the same day and I already want to return it. I can't believe I even 
 thought that Lord of The Rings Conquest would be a great game. I cannot even believe I spent $60 
 on a crappy game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Altiar25
Rating: 1.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Heyz. Well im ganna start off by saying i love Lord of the Rings films and most of the games are 
 brillent as well. This however was a total disaster.
  
  Campaign
  The campaign takes about an hour to complete, but once your done you can do the evil campaign which 
 takes an hour to complete as well. So you get about a 2 hour campaign which sucks.
  
  Audio
  Ok, this is one thing i grew a true deep hatred for in this game. The voice over is extremely 
 annoying. Also when doing campaign the voice over wont stop talking until you done the objective, 
 constently reminding you what to do almost ever 30 seconds. The characters sound nothing like the 
 characters in the film, and they also never shut up so your'll have to constently listen to their 
 annoying voices when playing as them. Your'll hear so many brillent speechs from the films ruined 
 by the trully awful audio.
  
  Maps
  They took places like Helms Deep, Minus Tirith, Moria and all the great places in the Lord of the 
 Rings where epic fights took place and shrinked them so much you can get to the other side of the 
 place in about 20 seconds.
  
  Gameplay
  Ok, ok so i been bashing this game alot so far. The gameplay is good and fun though i dont think 
 theres enough classes to choose from. You can play as a warrior which is basically button mash, 
 Archer which is pretty good who has a mix of 3 types of arrows that you can experiement with, Mage 
 which is helpful to heal units and protect them and also taking down large groups of enemies, and 
 finally scouts which can turn invisable so once you run behind an enemy you can backstab them which 
 is a one hit one kill which is very satisfying.
  
  You can also take control of Trolls, Ents and Oliphants although its rather lame as it dosn't take 
 much to kill any of these and is much more simple and easy to be a regular class.
  
  Playing as good or evil dosnt really make a difference gameplay wise as its basically the same 
 classes in a different skin alot like playing as the heroes or villains.
  
  Online
  The online fails. Enough said. Alot of lag i found and im pretty sure its not my connection as 
 im fine in every other game and im sure im not the only one who hates online if its extremely laggy.
 
  
  Overall
  Fail, had the right idea's and a couple of fun gameplay moments but that dosnt make up for the 
 small maps, annoying audio, and laggy online. Also one thing that annoyed me instantly. Aragon 
 wear's his kings costume at Helms Deep. WTF!? 
::::::

::::::
UserName: limejuice44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 15, 2009 7:11 pm PT
Review:  lord of the rings conquest is in my opinion, a very fun button-masher. Whoever is a fan of the 
 series of books or movies will find this an awesome game like i did. The demo is very good and 
 i instantly got hooked on that. The whole game is better. The campaign is just great but there 
 aren't any checkpoints really so when you die, you start the level over. I found that the two campaigns 
 evil and good are mounts of fun though. I thought the ideas were pretty cool and this game is definitely 
 for star wars battle front fans because its made by the same creators, pandemic, and has the same 
 concept like capture the "ring" instead of flag. The 16 player online was also very cool. Not much 
 lag but the players there are really pro and you might have a hard time if begin right away. they 
 had pretty good game modes and the graphics are AMAZING! audio is the same as lotr soundtracks 
 in the movie. The man giving the instruction can get annoying over time especially in capture the 
 ring. The VO was pretty good and the AI was average as well. Overall i loved this game, if it were 
 a little cheaper it is definitely a game to get for your Ps3 if you like this stuff. Download the 
 demo and you will be able to play with people online. this gives you a taste on how the game will 
 be. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: misha97
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 13, 2009 7:39 pm PT
Review:  NOTE: IF YOU WON'T PLAY MULTIPLAYER DONT BUY THIS GAME!
  
  I was considering to buy this game a few days after it came out. Making a decision was hard, with 
 all the poor reviews. Believe me, this game is good. 
  
  
  First of all, the campaign. 
  
  I'd say pretty easy. I beat it in about 10 hours of play. Tip: 
 if your new at this game, stick to playing as a warrior and cut/slash your way through to victory. 
 Although for a warrior, button mashing is an issue. The good campaign is fairly easy. The evil 
 one is a bit more challenging. One problem with the campaign: id you die a certain amount of times, 
 you have to start the entire mission over.
  
  Classes:
  
  Warrior: Very easy to play, button mashing is an issue.
  
  Archer: personaly my favorite class, 
 with an archer it is easy to kill baddies with one hit in the head. Although the amount of buttons 
 you must know and press may overwhelm someone new to this game. 
  
  Scout: I'd say the most challenging class in the game. If you get stuck in melee with a warrior, 
 its hard. Scouts are skilled at sneaking around and taking their enemies from behind in a 1 hit 
 KO move. 
  
  Mage: Mostly a back up unit for your allies. Not good for playing in the campaign. The mage is 
 good for online mulitplayer though.
  
  Graphics: very good, better than on the computer. but some playstation games still ahve much better 
 graphics than this game. 
  
  Sound: Never can get better. Amazing.
  
  
  
  Why won; t you like this game if you dont play multiplayer? because you beat the campaign fairly 
 fast. and I dont think youll enjoy playing custom battles 24/7 with the enemies being weaklings. 
 
  
  Multiplayer: Awesome! Players of different skill levels offer you a sweet challenge. 
  
  another 
 note, I have never played a LOTR cut/slash or any type of cut/slash game in my life. If a person 
 who's never played a cut/slash game beats this game fast, its not as hard as you think. 
  
  Hopefully this review helps you decide whether to get this game or not! (get it, you wont regret 
 it) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: IplayEA
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 9, 2009 1:06 pm PT
Review:  The Lord of the Rings conquest is relatively promising, but ends up a bit short. The first thing 
 to notice are the graphics, not very impressive, not horrible at all, just plain average, nothing 
 special done too them-really not much better then the PS2 games. Next is the length of the game, 
 relatively disappointing, its a fun game (good action, fun to play different characters) but takes 
 only a few days too beat and when you're finished there isn't much of a re-play factor. The online 
 is pretty decent to be honest, but just not better then the other games I would rather continue 
 playing. 
  One of the cool features of The Lord of the Rings: Conquest is playing as trolls, Ents, and even 
 hobbits. It's an interesting perspective, oh yeah, and there's also being the bad guys.
  Unfortunately the ultimate reason the game falls short is that is seems to be all thrown together, 
 and is too short for all the things they could have put into it. If you own the PS2 games, this 
 game is not better then they, but still fun to play.
  
  Graphics: 5.5/10
  Gameplay - 7/10
  Features - 7.5/10
  Replay - 5/10
  Length- 4.5/10
  
  Overall 7/10 - decent, 
 nothing special.
  
  For ages 13+ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tassosk13
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 8, 2009 7:14 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings is my favourite film. So i was looking forward to it. It was a nice game. The 
 gameplay was exciting. You can play for evil and for good both. Also you can play co-op, which 
 is fantastic. There are many characters to play like Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Gandalf, Faramir, 
 Frodo, Eowyn and for evil Saruman, Sauron, Lurtz, Warmtongue, Witch-king, Nazgul, The Mouth of 
 Sauron. Also you can play as an archer, a warrior, a mage, a scout and sometimes as a troll or 
 an Ent. But it is short and after you have end it you will be bored. aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaa aaa aaaa aaaaaaaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaaa 
 aaaaaaaaa aaaaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaa aaa aaaaaaaa aaaa aaaaaaaa aaaaa aaaaaa aaaaa aaa aaaaaaaa aaaaaaaa 
 aaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaa aaa aaaaaaa aaaa aaaa aaaaaaa 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BR4D_B4K3R
Rating: 2.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 9:49 pm PT
Review:  The best of Dynasty Warriors meets the best of Star Wars Battlefront, stuck in the Lord of the 
 Rings franchise. THAT is what I'ld like to be writing about this game. Unfortunately I find myself 
 writing about the worst of those game systems and an overly scripted gaming experience.
  
  Don't be duped into buying this piece of filth. It's slow, cumbersome pace and how many hits does 
 it take to get to the centre of an Urak'hai presentation are wholly unrewarding. and in the single 
 player campaign mode the open ended sandbox style of SW Battlefront is totally lost. and there 
 are too few enemies to give the epic feel of Dynasty warriors. The Narrative voice is obnoxious, 
 scripted and driving. Not like the generals who report in the other two games who allow you to 
 react, or dismiss their advice at your own peril. 
  
  This game is just too damn linear!
  
  Sorry EA, this one just had an Oliphant sit on it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jatkins1177
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 5:54 pm PT
Review:  As a fan of the Lord of the Rings trilogy, and of Pandemic's Battlefront games, I followed the 
 development of LOTR: Conquest with great interest. I thought the demo was fun, and after playing 
 through the training a few times and several online matches, I decided to part with some cash and 
 buy the full game. Was I disappointed? Well, yes and no. Allow me to explain.
  
  First, let me focus on the positive.
  
  It's a fun game. Whether playing solo, split-screen 
 with a friend, or online with strangers, there is nothing more satisfying than introducing an orc 
 to the business end of your sword. Of course, for the more malicious player, there is always the 
 option of playing as the bad guy, slaying all of the men, elves, and hobbits you come across. Regardless 
 of which side you choose, you have the choice between four classes  warrior, archer, scout, and 
 mage, each with their own advantages and pitfalls. At times you are given the opportunity to play 
 as one of Middle Earth's many heroes or villains, including Gandalf, Aragorn, The Witch King, and 
 even Sauron himself.
  
  Essentially there are four game modes, which can all be done solo, split-screen multiplayer, or 
 online multiplayer. The campaign takes you through Middle Earth as you battle to either save or 
 destroy it. The campaign objectives are varied enough to keep each mission interesting, and usually 
 include defending a particular area for a given amount of time, capturing a command post, destroying 
 a war machine, or defeating a particular individual. It's in the campaign mode that you really 
 get to feel like a powerhouse since many of the enemies are the weaker variety that can be killed 
 in one or two strikes. The Conquest mode involves capturing territories, while Capture the Ring 
 mode is basically capture the flag, and team death match is self-explanatory. All of the modes 
 are fun to play, but really shine with online multiplayer.
  
  The graphics are good, though not the best out there, and some of the character designs are a little 
 drab. It would be nice if you could tell Gandalf and Saruman apart at a distance (Gandalf should 
 be in his gray costume.) But overall, the graphics make the game nice to look at, and the looks 
 of the characters and locations are true to the recent movies.
  
  The sound in the game is great. Howard Shore's score is used masterfully to create an epic feel. 
 When you start swinging your sword and that familiar music wells up in the background, you can't 
 help but feel like you're really taking part in the battle for Middle Earth. The sound effects 
 are pretty good, too. During battles you can hear the sounds of arrows whizzing by and of swords 
 clanking together. When completing the campaigns, you do tend to hear the same instructions shouted 
 at you over and over ("We must defend the bridge" or something like that) but it's easily overlooked. 
 Also, apart from Hugo Weaving (Elrond) , no one from the movies does any voice acting for the game, 
 and while some voices are passable (Aragorn and Gandalf) , some are just terribly jarring (Gimli) . 
 
  
  Now, onto the negatives, and I do wish this portion of the review didn't have to be as long as 
 it's going to be, but as I've stated, the game is far from perfect and it has its faults. 
  
  One thing I would have liked to see was some sort of ranking or scoring system for the single 
 player campaign mode. This would have drastically increased the replay value. I'd imagine it would 
 have been fairly easy to give the player a score based on things like number of enemies slain, 
 time taken to complete each objective, number of deaths, etc. As it is, the only indication that 
 a campaign stage has been completed is that the next one is unlocked. There are three levels of 
 difficulty, but absolutely no record of which stages have been completed on what difficulty setting. 
 It makes playing on a higher difficulty setting completely unrewarding.
  
  Another thing that is frustrating is the scoring system for the multiplayer modes. Basically you 
 get 10 points for killing an enemy and 100 points for either capturing a territory (in Conquest 
 mode) or delivering the One Ring to the enemy base (in Capture the Ring mode.) This sounds all 
 well and good in theory, but in practice makes for some annoying moments. Being a game based mainly 
 on teamwork, it seems unfair to only give points to the player that scores the final blow, when 
 another player might have caused the majority of the damage. The same situation occurs in Capture 
 the Ring mode. A player could carry the ring 99% of the way to the enemy base before getting killed 
 where a teammate could grab it and claim the points. It's a little better when capturing the territories, 
 where the first two people at the flag get the points for the capture, but it's still possible 
 to be killed at the last minute and get nothing, even if you had been the first one there. This 
 could have all been fixed if points were awarded for damage done to an enemy rather than just for 
 the killing blow. Or if points were awarded for the time spent carrying the ring rather than just 
 delivering it to the base. 
  
  The biggest complaint, though, has to be the camera. It sometimes seems to flail around without 
 any kind of overall focus. Often you find it in front of you so you can't see what you're fighting. 
 Occasionally it zooms in so close all you can see is your own head. And on some stages like Rivendell 
 and The Shire, the leaves on the trees will completely block your view of what's going on. Of course 
 the controls allow you to reposition the camera at will, but having to do so will often cause missed 
 opportunities. It would have been nice if it was possible to lock the camera behind you so regardless 
 of where you move or turn, you can always see what you're facing.
  
  But for me, the positives of this game far out-weigh the negatives. The game has flaws and faults 
 to be sure, and a lot of missed potential that keeps it from being top-notch, but it's a solid 
 game for fans of LOTR or for those looking for a non-FPS multiplayer experience. Overall, it is 
 a lot of fun, and that's what games should be about in the first place.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fluteboy95
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2009 4:30 pm PT
Review:  This game is great. It's fun and enjoyable, but it does have quite a few Kinks.
  
  First of all, this game still has the Battlefront wreak all over it, it truly just feels like Battlefront 
 sent back to the stone age. 
  
  Second, this game is a little glitchy on some levels. When I was fighting as a troll, an ent (big 
 walking talking tree) hit me over the edge at Weathertop, I landed on a pile of rocks and the troll 
 wouldn't get up, he acted like he was still falling. THere was another time that I was Gandalf 
 and I fell through the floor on the Black Gate when I tried to use shockwave, both times I had 
 to respawn which was a despicable waste of lives.
  
  Third, if you're buying this game to hear Christopher Lee and Ian Mckillen give sturring battle 
 cries that chill there enemies to the bone, stay home. All you get are some noob actors who sound 
 like they just sucked on a helium balloon, Frodo is the worst, when he shouted "For the Shire" 
 for the first time I truly thought they had brought in a woman actor to play Frodo.
  
  There are some upsides that are either a. improved battlefront features or b. new all together.
 
  
  I believe I'm not the only one who would get pissed when my hero timer would run out. well this 
 game gets rid of the timer completely. It also balances the power of heroes so that if a player 
 gets a hero, he's not guranteed a win. That player has to be skilled to win and even if he's not 
 skilled with that class of character he'll still bring down a few people with him.
  
  You get to kill hobbits, what more is there to say on that note?
  
  You get to play as Sauron 
 but even with this feature you never feel truly invincible, but you can still wipe the floor with 
 the enemy and chances are you arn't going to be dying any time soon as Sauron anytime soon (just 
 watch out for eagles)
  
  This game is fun and has good 2-player gameplay, an interesting set of events in the story and 
 a nice selection of game modes in instant action, overall good game just needs to become a little 
 more unique. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Pope_Ginyu
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  So i wanted to give a 9 , but because there are too much "bad things" , i had to give a 9 .
  
  Let's start : If it costs less , i would've given it a 9 . But because it's still new , it's 
 pretty expensive . If you don't have enough money and are saving it for FEAR/Skate/Killzone etc. 
 , you might wanna wait buying or just rent this game . If u have , however , enough money , and 
 no games at your mind , i would say this game is almost a must .
  
  Why ?
  
  The good : This game is the first LOTR game to include an evil campaign , wich we all love ofcourse 
 . It also features some battles that weren't in the movies/books , wich is fun .Another great aspect 
 is the multiplayer option ; this is just awesome . You'll spend quite some time trying to beat 
 up other players . What i also loved : You'll start playing with normal soldiers in the good/evil 
 army . I can't explain why i like this , but playing a whole battle with a hero is quite boring 
 i think . Another thing that is great about this , is that if you are offered to play as a hero 
 , it's just great . You feel that you're stronger than the rest . You also have different classes 
 . There are 4 to be precise , maybe more would've been better , but it's still good . this way 
 you can practise your own kind of fighting and specialise in 1 kind . This way , you don't have 
 situations where everyone chooses an archer etc. Ofcourse some maps are better suited for Archers 
 , but this is normal . The graphics aren't bad , and aren't of the same quality as a PS2 game . 
 I never saw shining armour on the PS2 
  
  The bad : The heroes could be stronger . More heroes . More combo's for every class . Some more 
 fighting classes would be nice , altough the most important are included .. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jedijay1990
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2009 6:57 am PT
Review:  the campaign is quite unbalanced because some levels are easy and some impossibly hard but that 
 just keeps you on your toes. the thing that makes this game is the multiplayer that is amazing 
 fun. the different classes work well with different playing styles, downside is that if the enemy 
 isnt very good or accurate they can be unbeliveably easy to beat. if a swordsman gets close enough 
 to an archer the archer doesnt stand a chance at all. the evil campaingn is just as much fun as 
 the multiplayer but the heros on both campaigns are slightly dissapointing and weak. the campaigns 
 also seem to be over before you've realy got into them. great game overall though.
  
  good: multiplayer is so much fun
  
  Bad: multiplayer can be irritating when you want to play 
 as an archer and keep getting beat by swordsmen that you miss with your arrows. (or is that just 
 me?)
  both campaigns are to short 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 2k5stud
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2009 3:46 pm PT
Review:  First lets get the bad out of the way. The graphics could have been alot better. It looks like 
 the graphics were lightly updated from old battlefront games. You can tell a difference but not 
 much. One of the main problems I had with the game was that it was more challenging for the warrior 
 class to kill someone than any of the other classes. Each class is supposed to have their own specialty 
 and killing with a sword shouldve been the warrior's. The only other frustrating thing about the 
 game is when you get knocked to the ground with several enemies around you. When this happens, 
 often times, you are repeditively striked without the ability to defend yourself. You often lose 
 your life and have to respawn after you suffer your irritating death. 
  
  Now to the good of the game. Playing with another person on this game is LOADS of fun!! You and 
 your buddy can team up against the forces of evil and during every level you get to be a hero from 
 one of the movies. Pleasures like being an ent (giant trees) , heros, villians, trolls, the giant 
 elephants, all make the game at least worth renting. In addition the story of the game is put together 
 quite well, especially the "what if side of the story" After you beat the game on the good side 
 (which wont take you long) you get to play the rise of sauron which is AWESOME!! you get to play 
 as the witch king, nazgul, the mouth of sauron, even sauron himself!! The story is great, the gameplay 
 is great!! Aside from the minor drawbacks of the game, the gameplay, matched with the characters 
 available, prove to be really straightforward and sometimes addicting, FUN. Gamespot once again 
 underapprecaiated a good game. Is it worth 60 bucks? I would say no. Wait till the price goes down 
 in a few months and buy it then. But in the mean time, GO RENT IT!!! It is definitely worth 8 bucks. 
 And that is why I give it a solid 8.0. GOOD GAME!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BashQu
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 26, 2009 4:56 am PT
Review:  The Campaign Have Many new ideas and every time you experience some thing new , you can play as 
 good and you can play as evil and Trust me they are different , The problem is that it is short 
 but great .
  
  
  the main Charters in the game are the worrier who can preform a great and powerful moves with the 
 sword and the archer can shoot fire , poison , and multiplied arrows ... The scout can be stealth 
 and lunches bombs and preform a stealth move that kill the others from the first time finally the 
 magethe wizardwho can shot lightning , fire and hell him self . through The campaign you 
 will can play with different heroes so you will never get bored .!
  
  
  the multiplier are great and you will have too much fun there is Team Death match and we all know 
 it but the new is hero team death match so you can play with the heroes like Aragon and Legolas 
 and from evil there is heroes like The witch King and Saruman .
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BikerPunk
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 23, 2009 9:02 am PT
Review:  When i first saw the info for this game i was excited just like everyone else thats a LotR fan, 
 or battlefront gamers. i thought, wow, look at that, we get to control Orcs, Ents, and the Mammoths!
 
  
  i get the demo downloaded, and was impressed. I thought this demo was a great peek into a part 
 of the game, and i look forward to getting my hands on it. 
  
  I get to the store, get one of the only 2 copies that made it to my town, put it in and..... wtf? 
 I had to check to make sure i didnt just get the Demo again. I thought, 4 clasees per side is a 
 poor selection, but ok, i can deal with that. not a problem. the skins look horrible. something 
 i would expect if the PS3 mated with gamecube. 
  
  The camera control is less then steller, the gameplay is fun once you figure out all the controls 
 for each class. While the controls are only slightly different, its enough to mess up when you 
 are new to the game, and or used to playing a class for awhile.
  
  The Good:
  - various game styles
  - balance between classes (nothing obviously dominating)
  - Heroes are 
 amazing.
  
  The Bad:
  - graphics are WEAK
  - not even a handful of classes
  - camera angles are whacky
  - slightly different controls for each class
  - limited maps
 
  - choppy controls
  - some heroes look similar (Gandalf & Sauramon) 
  
  I would stil pick this game up for $35-40. but it is no where near worth the $65 i paid for it. 
 I could have bought a LoTR costume, got a foam sword and had more fun chasing the children on the 
 street. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Im_bettr_than_u
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 22, 2009 1:11 am PT
Review:  When i heard bought this game or even heard it was comming out (hahahha.. dont be imature ;) ) 
 i was so exited cos i was such a great LOTR fan but enough with me and more to the game.
  Graphics - 6 : not PS3 standards and is filled with glitches and see throughs and the glitches 
 are annoying and i might say ps2 could produce better graphics.
  Gameplay - 8 : What can i say its fun i like the previous LOTR games and i found it fun a bit of 
 button mashing but its not a problom with me.
  Difficutly - 7 : not that hard but somtimes it will get overwelming so you will somthings need 
 to get n extra player to jump in and help u.
  Replay value - 8 : it is very fun filled with very fun levels and has instant action and got a 
 few nice trophies to earn ur way up to.
  Features - 9 : Cave Trolls!, Ents!, wargs, Horses, Catapults and Oliphants great way to play as 
 well as a choice of combat, magic, archary, stealth and jumt brawling very good and got a nice 
 selection of heros to play with.
  
  and i forgot the other classifications.
  but the campaign nd playing is too short i finished it in like 10 hrs even though its got a great 
 evil alternate ending i feel like it isnt worth the $80 (Australian) for it i reckon wait a bit 
 until its cheaper its new but it wont have you occupied for a long time.
  all in all great gme great seige, senarios and gamplay to keep u happy for a short while and great 
 for LOTR fans I love it and cant wait till the next 1 (oh yer like battlefront but LOTR) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarthVader75
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 21, 2009 9:37 am PT
Review:  Freakn awesome!!!! gives you total freedom to choose between good and bad, the way you kill foes 
 etc...
  
  Multiplayer kicks ass!!! both online and local, Ring Bearer mode is insane!!!
  
  Even if youre not a Lotr fan but you like some ass kicking action you are gonna go nuts with 
 LOTR Conquest
  
  You definitely feel like youre in the middle of the battlefield, whether trying to save middle-earth 
 from darkness or bringing it to darkness yourself.
  
  Playing as heros such as Aragorn, Legolas, Gimli, Gandalf etc... is really cool!! 
  
  but even 
 better is to slaughter the free creatures of middle earth as the Witch King of Angmar, Sauron, Saruman, Mouth 
 of Sauron, Nazguls etc... is EVEN BETTER!!!!! cause you have no regrets whatsoever in murdering 
 small hobbits or elves!!!
  
  Its just pure fun, action, adventure, drama and also one of the best games I have ever played.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: asadjamil27
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 18, 2009 8:15 am PT
Review:  This game is great expecially the multiplayer feature. Its way better than star wars battlefront. Theres 
 alot of maps to explore. Theres campaign modes for good and evil. A good feature for good and evil 
 is the heros like gandalf, the witch king, isildar, legolas, saruman and alot more. There are alot of 
 classes mage scout warrior and archer. Another good feature is playing as trolls ents and barlogs. There 
 are some glitches but there more funny then game ruining. You can also ride wargs elephants and 
 horses. Theres alot of modes which are capture the ring, conquest, team deathmatch. This is defenetly 
 a must buy.
  
  
  I recomend this game to all lord of the rings fans
  
  
  This game is very very very very very very very very very very very very very sorry i need to use 
 800 words so very very very very very very very very very very very very gd 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BladeStrike1234
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 9:35 pm PT
Review:  I'll review the single player and multiplayer seperate.
  
  Well the single player part of LOTR Conquest is very basic. If you are a LOTR fan like most who 
 will buy this game, then being able to fight in the major battles of the films/books will make 
 you mostly happy. It can be fun at times but it all boils down to every single one of these levels 
 being too short.
  
  You get 8 levels each for the Good & Evil campaigns, 16 in total. You can complete these very, 
 very fast. Do not buy this game for offline play only. You will only have approx. 3 hours of gameplay. 
 Plus you won't want to be repeating these missions more than twice. Once is enough for most.
  
  Achievements.... well the only difficult ones are the online multiplayer ones. Enough said about 
 that.
  
  On to online multiplayer. This is what the game is really about. It can be very fun, depending 
 on your skill level and how good teams are. Some people like to take advantage of "cheap" classes. 
 There are only 4 though!
  
  Speaking of which, you may/will probably find that 4 classes is very limited. It will get boring 
 after a while. The fact that the Hero Classes are only powered-up versions of the normal classes 
 doesn't help. Some may have slightly modified moves, but it's all basically the same.
  
  Mediocre graphics, limited gameplay. Very short campaign. All in all the game is a big disappointment. 
 I recommend this to LOTR fans. You will get a good few hours fun out of this online. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlord_rulz
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 17, 2009 6:55 pm PT
Review:  From all the trailers and videos released on the internet before release did a very good job at 
 showcasing some of the great aspects of this game, i will give you that. The game in itself though 
 is quite addictive and even though it can get a bit repetitive at times there is enough things 
 to keep you going for atleast 20 hours of gameplay.
  
  The Pro's :
  - Great selection of maps to choose from.
  - Flashy combat effects.
  - Decent size battles
 
  - Hero Battles (All your fav characters from the films)
  - Great classic use of Battlefront gameplay.
  - Splitscreen (campaign and instant action)
  
 - Evil Campaign aswell as Good campaign
  - Very nice layout for Online.
  - Voice Chat
  - Great variety of Hero's and unique combat moves.
  
  The Con's
  - Campaign a bit corny and 
 not much depth.
  - Not much variety in combat system, needs updating.
  - Some glitchs and proxy exploits need in the terrain.
  - No parry , impossible to defend once 
 been hit with melee, resulting is some cheap deaths and can become very frustrating on Legendary 
 difficulty.
  - Online Lag issues.
  - Need to balance out the classes.
  
  Things Need Fixing:
  
  - Terrain Glitchs in maps.
  - Scouts backstab move shouldnt be able 
 to kill Hero's in one hit.... even Sauron lol.
  - Rangers arrows should be affected by gravity.
  - Unique combat manuveours.. Orc warriors shouldnt 
 have the same move animations as an Elf warrior. ( I dont mean changing the move set, just the 
 animations of the moves , add variety to the way they attack, shouldnt be identical)
  - More variety in move sets, especially defensive moves.
  - Add Falling damage. ( Can fall from 
 100ft and no damage , just laughable)
  
  
  Overall though this game is great fun for awhile but can become a bit repetitive and needs a few 
 new things added to it just to make it that bit more fun to keep you playing. I do believe though 
 from the start you do have to be into LOTR or Battlefront titles to really enjoy this game to its 
 fullest.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ewangotkool
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 17, 2009 11:16 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings conquest is a great game overall and gamespot have wrongly sorce this game and 
 it thouldn't deserve a 6.5 as it will entertain you if your a lord of the rings fan or not.
  first of all the single player is preaty good and you can re-live the movies on the good campain 
 and the cool fiture is the evil campain were you can take over middle earth if frodo didn't cast 
 the ring in the fire. You can also be some of the heroes and villans in the movies and be oliffants 
 and nausgls and use cacapults to destroy you enemy which is really cool.
  And secondly the multiplayer is good as you can play with 4 diffrent classes warrior, archer. scout 
 and mage with diffrent cool power and also weaknesses and can be really cool but is abit difficult 
 and buttom smashing but worth it.
  Gamespot have wrongly score this game with only 6.5 and they should re-score this game but iv'e 
 only been playing this game 4 a day so dont take my whole word and right now it looks cool but 
 i also have fears of getting bored fast. Ewangotkool 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trigger2695
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 17, 2009 2:49 am PT
Review:  The game is very much like battlefront except without the jetpacks and blasters. The gameplay is 
 very simple to use eg: warrior- square light sword attack, triangle- medium sword attack and so 
 on. There are 4 classes to choose from, the warrior, the scout, the archer and the mage. The scout 
 has a very cool move. It can go invisible when you hold L1. While you are invisible you can go 
 behind someones back and secretly backstab them. The archer can use poison arrows, to slow down 
 the enemy and take health away from him. He can also use fire arrows to knock enemies on the floor, 
 it is very lethal when shot at the head; the last special ability is the multi-arrrow. With this 
 ability the archer can fire multiple arrows at a number of enemies. The mage is an interesting 
 class, he can use lightning bolts to strike enemies. Restore allies health, cast fire rings, and 
 produce a shield which enemies can't penetrate with projectiles. In the game you can also use horses 
 and wargs, to ride on. You can slash enemies while on the horse or warg, by pressing square to 
 slash on left and triangle to slash right. Lastly the maps. The maps range from medium to large 
 landscape. They have great detail put into them. My last words on the game would be is that the 
 game is great for people who like star wars battlefront, and LOTR fans everywhere. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Spherious
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 2:36 pm PT
Review:  Perhaps since I'm an LOTR fan this might seem biased but here goes. I dont see where all the hate 
 for this game is coming from. Sure you have to mash buttons a bit but it only really sticks out 
 with the warrior but if you mix up the combos it isnt that bad. The graphics are good compared 
 to all the action that can be going in the screen at the same time and the campaigns are awesome. 
 With the awesome musical score the game really captures the epicness of LOTR and you actually feel 
 like you matter on the battlefield. Now there can be some problems like mismatched spawn rates 
 but its usually nothing that you can't overcome without being careful. Also the nice mix of heroes 
 mixes seamlessly into combat, its not like in battlefront where you saw a jedi and all you could 
 do was run. The heroes arent invincible and they dont seem out of play at all in the heat of combat. 
 Honestly I dont think the AI is that stupid. Maybe the grunts and your allies in basic combat arnt 
 the smartest people in the world but will come through when it counts. For example your ally might 
 less than enthusiastically fight an grunt but when he sees a priority target or a troll or and 
 ent he'll get right on them. Many times I have seen the AI preform the backstab on me or the back 
 attack on a troll or ent. And they get on those captains like no tomorrow and will mount the ballistas 
 to bring down bigger enemies. With a little DLC there will be new mounts, maps, heroes, and maybe 
 a class to chose from so I can't wait.
  The Good
  Epic scale battles and music. Relatively smart AI when you need it most. Great variety of classes, 
 moves and heroes. From what I've seen of it the evil campaign is amazing. Good campaign is nice 
 to. Online multiplayer is great.
  
  The Bad
  Can get somewhat button mashy but thats a rarity. Somewhat limited maps. Occasional mismatched 
 spawn rates. Your allies can be slightly stupid at times. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Silk_Wood
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't planning on making a review for this game since i knew i'd love it, but after see all 
 the hate out there for it... i just want to clear some things up.
  
  First off, if you liked the Star Wars Battlefront series, you'll fall in love with this game. It's 
 basically a more improved, more enjoyable experience. Howard's music for the game makes the battles 
 feel epic and fight filled. The units in the game I will admit can be really dumb, the units on 
 your side anyways, but who cares? I mean, don't you want to have all the hobbits for yourself...
 
  
  Secondly, why are you people mad about button mashing. What you just want on magical button that 
 chains 5 million sword swings automatically?! Common! SWB II was a button masher aswell when it 
 came to certain aspects, no one complained about that. The fact that there are only four classes 
 really doesn't bother me all that much either, I mean, the last thing you want to see is a hobbit 
 with a tomy gun right? 
  
  Thirdly, if you like LOTR, or have seen any of the movies, this is the closest thing you'll get 
 to the most epic LOTR game, this and Return of the King. I gave this game a 9.0 not because Gamespot 
 gave it a 6.5 and i wanted to raise the overall player score, but because this game in my opinion 
 deserves a 7 - 8 from a biaest gamer, and an 8 - 9 from a LOTR fan, in other words me. The graphics 
 for this game? It's not like you'll be yelling at your TV "WHY ARE THEYRE BLOCKS RUNNING ON MY 
 SCREEN!!! THIS IS NOT POLTERGIEST!!!" No, the graphics are fine mates', they're good for next gen 
 and theres nothing wrong with them.... as for lag online, try checking you internet connection before 
 yelling at your dog (and plus, a tip for anyone using a ps3 online, try turning off your computers 
 or anything else using up bandwith near your ps3, trust me, online play will be lag FREE) .
  
  Lastly, this game is great. Its brainless fun like any other video game and will be most enjoyed 
 by battlefront fans and LOTR fans. If you're not either, this game might not be for you, but with 
 a modest collection of maps, playable mounts/heroes, i dont understand why you wouldn't give it 
 a try just to make sure you hate it. 
  
  Epic: 
  movie - like battles
  awesome multiplayer
  this really is "LOTR"
  badass moments all the time
  kill frodo
  evil 
 campaign offers guilty pleasure
  controls are just fine for what they're worth
  playable heroes/villians
  you can kill frodo
  playing as the Witch - King makes you feel like 
 a total badass
  good campaign is satisfing 
  worth $60 (if you're planning on playing single player and multi, if not, wait for a price drop 
 if youre not a LOTR fan)
  easliy picked up
  you can slay hobbits
  and oh yeah... yeah can KILL, frodo
  
  Fail:
  just a modest amount of maps (don't worry, DLC 
 is on the way)
  mdest amount of heroes (DLC u'll solve this im sure)
  dumb AI at times
  
  All in all mates' this game is not a 6.5 at heart and is a pleasent, awesome, experience, plus 
 DLC is on the way.
  
  oh, i almost forgot, you can KILL baggins. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jamo_boy101
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 16, 2009 12:16 pm PT
Review:  well played demo few days ago, got game today and well it was exactly what i expected... extremely 
 disappointing!! it had nothing that really gripped me. the online is awful and the offline is about 
 the only reason i gave this game a 5. you can take down mumakils and fly the eagles. pretty fun. 
 but the classes get extremily boring. I am a massive fan of Lord of the Rings, always have been 
 played every lotr game there is out (i think) and they were all very good games. But this well 
 lets say a let down to the lotr frnachise! The grpahics are not bad with some things having more 
 detail than others. There are also trophies which can be something to work to, but most are given 
 to you with no real work done. It is ment to be like star wars battlefront. Well it isnt like that 
 at all, it is like a ps2 game more than a ps3 game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jagon2205
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 7:46 am PT
Review:  I played the demo when it first came out and was very excited about the game being released. I 
 enjoyed the previous games and was looking for something new in this game. Other than the online 
 multiplayer, which may be the best part, the story mode is very repetitive. Every level is basically 
 the same thing in a different map. It was not very creative. I am quite disappointed. The difficulty 
 does not really increase with the levels. The only thing that changes is the bosses at the end 
 of every level, but they are all very easy to kill. Even that you are fighting through the levels 
 are all the same and can all be killed the same way. 
  
  The online multiplayer is something new though. It is finally a game online for PS3 that is not 
 a first person shooter. Online mode is highly addictive, I would recommend at least renting the 
 game just for the online mode, the demo is online, but it really doesn't do it justice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rxman1975
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 16, 2009 3:08 am PT
Review:  Lord of the rings conquest maybe in some peoples mind a star wars batlefront knockoff but as soon 
 as you hear howard shores music and start skull thumping orcs you quickly realize how much fun 
 this game can be. There is alot of button mashing but hell there are worse things last time I checked 
 as for gamespots rating it artificially low, game deserves around an 7.5-8 easily I am not a big 
 multiplayer game player so the single player story has my attention and is worth you money
  
  This is one of the best LOTR games to come out since the original ones on the PS2 for which 
 I happen to own the Two Towers very reminicent. Gamespots review doesnt match up with its rating 
 system, IGN gave it a much fairere review with a review of a 7 and better criticisms. Well its 
 off to work for me just thought i would share my latest purchase and the graphics BTW are awesome 
 on the PS3 and with no hard drive instaolation like some other games that take up to 6 gigs!!!!!! 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adam111111
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 16, 2009 1:39 am PT
Review:  This is a very good game. Any fan of LOTR will love it. Especially the evil campaign.
  
  The classes are good and all with special abilites. Sometimes battles turn into L1/Triangle fests...
 
  
  The story. Well you know...
  
  Graphics are average.
  
  Music. Obviously good.
  
  One of the embarrassing things is the voice acting. Simply awful at times.
  
  Many, many 
 ways to die. Falling into crevasses. Hit by artillery strike. Or even stuck between two cavetrolls. 
 The heroes are very well done. You get a proper feel for the LOTR setting in the iconic battles. 
 Which is something we didn't get in Return of the King.
  
  I have had this game on my wishlist for some time and now that I have it I can say I have not been 
 disappointed.
  
  
  Quite a difficult game. About 16 hours of story. Pandemic has done another good job.
  
  
 
  Enjoyable. Simple review. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: daabulls23
Rating: 7
Date: Jan 15, 2009 3:06 pm PT
Review:  Note: I'm assuming during this review that you have some idea how the game works. 
  
  I've played quite a few hours on the demo, and if it is any indication of the final game, it has 
 tons of potential, but I'm afraid some key issues will keep the game from being great. I think 
 it plays a lot like Star Wars Battlefield. You go around taking territories and killing as many 
 others as you can. 
  
  The layout of the maps is great, and you are never far away from the action. Every class is unique, 
 and players seem to balance out pretty well. Games can last a few minutes to twenty minutes depending 
 on how good (or bad) your side is doing. Gameplay feels a little unpolished, though, and a bit 
 clunky at times, but not so much that it makes the game not fun to play. Graphics are a little 
 on the droopy side as well, but I did notice that shadows appeared on your player correctly, and 
 effects were pretty well done. Also, the frame rate never dropped no matter how much action was 
 going on.
  
  There are quite a few balance issues I've noticed, though.
  A scout can go behind anyone and basically kill them with one move by sneaking up behind them while 
 being "invisible." You can even do it to heroes. Sneak up behind Gandalf? As good as gone. The 
 Witch King? No match. It's thrilling to be a scout, but then it feels like a cheap kill on the 
 other end. Also, I think trolls are a little stronger than they need to be. Ents are about the 
 same, but they are a little better balanced since fire sets them ablaze.
  
  Overall, the demo is good fun and playing an LOTR action game against others is great. If they 
 add some more polish, this could be one of the best LOTR games out there.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dkc46
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 2:35 pm PT
Review:  So heres the deal, this game is fun and is alot like battlefront except for the lack of shooting. 
 It's basically a button masher with parts of the battlefront games thrown in. They brought back 
 the hero mode and I'm glad they got rid of the time limit of heroes that they had in battlefront 
 2. The enemies in the game just block all of your attacks then if you stop for like 2 seconds they 
 just knock you down and start killing you along with every other enemy around. 
  
  THE GOOD
  -fun being an ent or a troll and just stepping on people
  -its really gratifying 
 to go to the shire and snipe the hobbits
  -cool selection of classes
  -cool class powers
  -hero mode is always a nice touch
  -they got rid of the time limit on the heroes
  
  THE BAD
 
  -you get gang beaten and die to quickly
  -your team is useless
  -NOT ENOUGH MAPS
  -only 2 person offline multiplayer
  -enemies block all your attacks
  
  BOTTOM LINE: If you 
 liked the battlefront series and also the lord of the rings series then this is a good game for 
 you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaNiKore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 15, 2009 5:07 am PT
Review:  What will I say...., it's LOTR. 
  The game is made by the same developers who made SW Battlefront (Lucasarts, Pandemic) , so the game 
 play is similar to that. And it looks (for so far I have seen) pretty good. The only thing I found 
 frustrating was the camera control, you sometime lose youre opponent during one to one battle. 
 Thats something you (and I) probly have to get used to, by playing more :) .
  So if I was you, I would download the demo and start playing online, and start slicing and dicing. 
 The demo only gives you 4 type of fighters. The Warrior, The Archer, The mage and The Thief/Spy 
 if I remember it correctly. But alsseen a couple of other characters running about, like the fraggile 
 Hobbits and the Mighty Orcs, and not to forget the Ents. BARRABOEMH!!!
  
  I'm giving it a 7.5 for now. First I'll have to go down to the shops and get me the game. But I'll 
 bet you, I'll will be giving it a better rating after playing it........
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
