-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/spyrodawnofthedragon/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Gorgeous visuals and a thrilling score create a vivid fantasy world.
 Convenient local co-op lets second player drop in or out at any time.
 Good variety of elemental powers at your disposal.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Combat is uninteresting and sometimes tedious.
 Unfocused level design can lead to aimless wandering.
 When playing solo, the AI-controlled teammate can sometimes get stuck.
 Control of the camera is too limited.
 Story borrows too much inspiration from elsewhere.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov  3, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5
Critic Score: 5.9, 19 Review (s)
User Score: 6.9, 102 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Etranges Libellule
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 21, 2008
ESRB: Everyone 10+

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Lackluster gameplay makes this a disappointing conclusion to the Legend of Spyro series. 

  When he first debuted on the scene just over 10 years ago, Spyro the lovable purple dragon starred 
 in a series of truly excellent platformers on the original PlayStation. But oh, how the fire-breathing 
 have fallen. The first two entries in his current trilogy, The Legend of Spyro, have been marked 
 by mediocrity, and sadly, the conclusion follows suit. It's an unfocused, uninteresting game that, 
 despite its flying heroes, never manages to get off the ground.  

           You'll battle a massive fire-breathing balrog. Err... golem.      

  Picking up where 
 The Eternal Night left off, Dawn of the Dragon concludes the Legend of Spyro series with an extremely 
 run-of-the-mill tale of our purple hero, accompanied by nemesis-turned-ally Cynder, taking on the 
 Dark Master Malefor. It all makes for a typical wrap-up to a fantasy trilogy. Dawn of the Dragon 
 certainly looks like the climactic chapter of an epic fantasy trilogy, too, and not just any epic 
 fantasy trilogy. Specifically, it takes more than a little visual inspiration from the  Lord of 
 the Rings  films. This influence is frequent and undeniable, from the initial confrontation with 
 a massive fire-breathing demon of the deep, to a desperate battle against the siege towers of tremendous 
 armies from the ramparts of a pristine city, to the foray into a scorched land dominated by a volcano 
 above which the Dark Master resides. And as Spyro, Elijah Wood has some distinctly Frodo-esque 
 lines of dialogue. While not very original, the visual design, coupled with a gorgeous musical 
 score, is effective at creating the sense that the fate of the world hangs in the balance of Spyro's 
 struggle. Unfortunately, the gameplay falls well short of matching that level of excitement.  

 
  The combat in Dawn of the Dragon has you employing a combination of weak and strong melee attacks, 
 an assortment of elemental powers, and the ability to grab smaller enemies in your adorable little 
 jaws and thrash them around. You can also guard against attacks and perform a quick roll to evade 
 them. Despite this variety of moves at your disposal, the combat is never interesting. In the earlier 
 parts of the game, you'll often fight so many weak enemies at once that the screen becomes a cluster 
 of chaos, making it all but impossible to tell when an attack is incoming. Not that you need to 
 be defensive, though, since pure button mashing is enough to defeat these foes. Later on, you'll 
 frequently be waylaid by groups of larger, more powerful enemies. Much too frequently, in fact. 
 These enemies are dull and require no particular skill to defeat, but they can take a long time 
 to wear down, and they kill the game's momentum and make the last few chapters feel like an uphill 
 slog.  

  The few boss battles look monumental, but they're simple and unimaginative. You avoid the same 
 obvious patterns and exploit the same weaknesses over and over again. And worst of all, there are 
 some so-called elite enemies scattered throughout the game who are wickedly frustrating. When you 
 encounter one for the first time, you're given no clue how to defeat him, and initially, they may 
 seem downright impossible. Even when, through trial and error, you stumble on the trick to beating 
 them, they do so much damage that sometimes one slipup on your part can cost you your life. It's 
 true that fighting elites is always optional, but you'll often earn some useful rewards for defeating 
 them, such as pieces of armor that give Spyro's or Cynder's abilities a bonus, providing an incentive 
 to just suck up the frustration and deal with the chore of fighting them. Lousy content is lousy 
 content, optional or not, and the elites may frustrate and alienate some of the younger players 
 to whom the game appeals.  

           Combat is uninteresting despite the range of abilities at your disposal.      

  Both 
 Spyro and Cynder have four elemental powers, and some of them are fun to use for a little while: 
 Cynder's wind power lets you pick up an enemy and fling him into his companions, and Spyro's electricity 
 power can leave some foes stunned and open to attack for a moment. And powering up these abilities 
 over the course of the game can be satisfying. Spyro's fire-breathing ability looks pretty powerful 
 to begin with, but after you use the experience points you've earned to purchase its final upgrade, 
 it's far more impressive. However, because the combat in which you employ these powers is never 
 involving, the powers themselves are redundant, and switching them up isn't enough to keep things 
 interesting.  

  Dawn of the Dragon departs from the earlier games in the series by letting you take flight at any 
 time. A few presses of the jump button have you take to the air, but this new ability doesn't end 
 up having much of an impact on the overall gameplay. It's useful for covering larger distances, 
 but there are always gusts of wind and other mysterious forces that prevent you from exploiting 
 this freedom, so you'll still have to do a fair amount of platforming. The game sometimes tries 
 to do too much with flight. One sequence in particular has you zooming through the cavernous innards 
 of a giant to strike at its crystalline heart, and like so much of the game, it looks thrilling 
 but just isn't much fun to play. The flight controls are fine for gliding gently across the levels, 
 but they lack the precision that a sequence like this calls for.     

  It's a good thing you have a way of getting around faster, though, because the level design is 
 often so unfocused that you'll need to spend a good deal of time wandering and searching for where 
 you're supposed to go next. One level requires you to first find one cave, then another, and then 
 another, and while the area isn't enormous, it's large enough that you can spend quite a while 
 looking until you stumble upon your next objective. (According to the manual, your dragonfly companion, 
 Sparx, "is always willing to help Spyro and Cynder find their way when they get lost." No greater 
 lie has ever been told.) Later, you'll soar all over the huge body of the aforementioned giant 
 looking for a number of small crystals you need to destroy, and again, you may spend a good bit 
 of time looking all over the place until you find your next objective. A bit of open-ended exploration 
 can be fun, but levels like these could have benefited from the occasional nudge in the right direction. 

  Spyro and Cynder can never get too far apart, thanks to a cursed magical chain that binds them 
 together. If you're playing alone, you can switch between them on the fly. The AI-controlled character 
 isn't very useful in combat but fortunately doesn't take any damage either, so you don't need to 
 worry about protecting your companion. And in most cases, the AI character does a fine job of following 
 you around, but there are a few things, like ramps, that the character sometimes gets stuck on 
 and seems incapable of handling, forcing you to switch back and forth to get both dragons into 
 a position from which you can advance freely again. You're better off if you can convince a friend 
 to join you. The ability to have a second player drop in or out of local co-op at any time is convenient, 
 though it's too bad none of the versions offer support for online cooperative play.  

           Many of the environments are breathtaking.      

  On the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 
 3, Dawn of the Dragon is gorgeous. From the picture-perfect vistas of green grass and rushing rivers 
 under a pristine sky to the foreboding burned lands of the Dark Master Malefor, the vibrant colors 
 and detailed environments create a compelling world that will appeal to younger players and older 
 fantasy fans alike. As you'd expect, the Wii version isn't quite as impressive, but it's no slouch, 
 though the less captivating visuals, combined with a few awkward motion controls, put it a bit 
 behind the other versions. (Blocking is done by lifting the Nunchuk, for instance, and it's mildly 
 distracting to have to always be mindful of how you're holding it so you don't accidentally stop 
 attacking and start guarding.) In all versions, the camera can be frustrating. There are times 
 when you can rotate it around you any way you please, but more often than not, you can only inch 
 it a bit in one direction or the other, which is very limiting and prevents you from getting a 
 good sense of your surroundings.  

  The excellent score, with its urgent, rousing choral sections and lush orchestrations, creates 
 an emotional pull that, unfortunately, the gameplay doesn't warrant or support. As Spyro, Elijah 
 Wood is a good fit, at least in part because of his familiarity as Frodo and the similarities between 
 that unlikely hero's quest and this one's. Christina Ricci is fine but underused as Cynder; likewise 
 for Gary Oldman as the wise Ignitus. As Malefor, Mark Hamill's voice is processed through so many 
 filters to make it sound supernaturally booming and evil that they may as well have gotten Pee-Wee 
 Herman to play the part for all the difference it makes. Wayne Brady, as Sparx, is forced to utter 
 such painfully unfunny asides that you'll want to reach right into the screen and swat him yourself. 

  If you've already trudged your way through the first two Legend of Spyro games, you may want to 
 play this one as well, just to see how it all ends. It will take most players around 10 hours to 
 finish Dawn of the Dragon. But while you can sense the visuals and music straining to create a 
 mood of epic fantasy excitement, it's just not enough. This game isn't good enough to redeem the 
 series or to be a compelling stand-alone experience, so if you've avoided the previous entries, 
 there's no need to jump in here.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (7 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: MrAbs
Rating: 5.5
Date: Jan 26, 2009 3:42 am PT
Review:  Spyro makes his appearance on the PS3 and you know what.... it could have been a lot better. 
  
  First let's start off with the storyline. I'm lost as to what happened on the previous game, 
 so for me, I was a little confused as to what was going on. You find yourself trapped in some castle 
 and you get rescued by a wold dude called Hunter. You fight your way through a few levels to reach 
 the Big Dragon dude at the end.
  
  The Story isn't really anything new. The Graphics was actually quite good. Very colorful and vibrant. 
 The only thing is, sometimes, it can get a little too colorful. You loose track of where you are 
 on the stage and you suddenly find yourself fighting nothing but air when the plasma smoke goes 
 away.
  
  The Camera is another thing that is totally a let down on this game. You are extremely restricted 
 in terms of camera movement, sometimes being stuck with a 3 degree angle at which you can change 
 it. Very Frustrating especially if you want to find all those power crystals and things.
  
  The acting isn't actually to bad with voices from actors like Elijah Wood, how can it go wrong?
 
  
  There are a lot of bugs in the game. Like you would suddenly not be able to walk because of a pixel 
 big grass strand in your way. The stages seem to go on for ever, but you find yourself flying into 
 an invisible wall. Sometimes you would die and the game would just go on. Flying isn't the most 
 awesome thing either. Clearly a pre-set path has been set up. So you don't really have the freedom 
 to fly where you want to. 
  
  Spyro was a bit of a let down for me. With the price of the game, I would expect more stages and 
 better development. Guess this is just one for the fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sithxterminator
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 12, 2009 12:18 pm PT
Review:  I found this game to be a really enjoyable and challenging game to the spyro series. This game 
 starts off as an easy style action adventure game to play with thrilling cutscenes intense action 
 and brilliant voice acting to become one of the best spyro games in history but it does get quite 
 a bit tedious and annoying when you get further on in the game increasing in difficulty especially 
 in the final three or four levels of the game but overall it has been an amzing experience to play 
 and a thrilling conclusion to the series. the collectibles you collect are pretty cool and getting 
 the 150 hit combo is a bit of a challenge to recieve bonus artwork. Overall this game has been 
 very enjoyable but I wouldn't recommend this game unless you are a hardcore spyro fan into a challenge 
 and can stand all the button bashing combo stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: svaubel
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 26, 2008 2:23 pm PT
Review:  Spyro and Cynder join forces- because they have to- to put an end to the Dark Master.
  
  Gameplay 6- This game does have many fun moments, but sadly there are nearly as many frustrating 
 ones. The camera is your worst enemy. In almost all of the levels you cannot move the camera more 
 than three inches. While the forced camera shows you what you are supposed to do, sometimes; this 
 lack of mobility its quite a hindrance. Plus there are tons of invisible walls too, making what 
 should be a fully explorable game, into a more or less linear game. 
  Dawn of the Dragon is also very combat heavy like the first two entires. The dry, button-mashing 
 style feels quite dull and lifeless. Not too mention that some of the enemies can be cheap, unnecessarily 
 difficult, and seem to have a very large amount of hit points. This makes most of the combat sequences 
 just not fun. The boss fights should feel grand, but they dont and are often quite easy.
  Platforming is actually well done because you can switch between the two dragons at any time, make 
 climbing parts require thought and switching one while one hangs on to fully overcome the obstactles.
 
  
  Graphics 9- No doubt this game is beautiful and pleasing to look at by the sheer detail. All the 
 colors seem to pop out at you.
  
  Sound 8- Same voice actors as the first two in this series, and a little of the music is recycled. 
 Boss fight music helps bring the feeling of 'epic-ness', but its sad the rest of the game doesnt 
 follow this theme.
  
  Fun Factor 6- Depending on the level (and mostly the camera) , you will either be enjoying yourself 
 or wanting to send the controller through the TV. It also doesnt help that half the time the level 
 layout can make you wander all over unneccesarily looking for that next glowing thing to take from 
 point A to B
  
  Replay Value 6- Play the game again with your stats where you left them when you beat it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Katnip18
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 1, 2008 1:58 pm PT
Review:  i like, sorry not love, this game it is very fun to play. i believe this is Spyro's first love 
 story in the series. this is not the best game in any Spyro series, no offense, but i think this 
 is just an adequate game that you just want to waste time or just have fun because you are a Spyro 
 fan. Even though this game was rated mediocre, 5 , or in the middle, it is still a good game. just 
 for the producers of this game, please work harder and think better. I know you are working with 
 the crash games as well, but if you do not want bad or mediocre ratings, you got to think what 
 do people want in games so they want to play them, like final fantasy.  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PsxMeUP_basic
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 7, 2008 7:36 am PT
Review:  I actually feel bad for Gary Oldman, by far my favorite actor. Like Hollywood movies, video game 
 projects sometimes generate enough buzz to assemble an all-star cast, only to fall apart in the 
 final outcome. Such is the case with the Legend of Spyro Trilogy. It started out with promising 
 verve when Etranges Libellules picked up the franchise and engrossed our favorite purple dragon 
 in an epic tale. The first two games were somewhat average but they built the story up for an epic 
 ending, and though Dawn of the Dragon wraps things up nicely story-wise, gameplay and levels feel 
 rushed and uninspired. Like previous titles, Spyro again fails to leap into the horizon of fantasy 
 by offering us a mundane title in a pretty wrapper. The all-star cast did their part but the game's 
 designers seem to have run out of flame where it mattered.
  
  
  THE LORD OF THE CRYSTALS: THE FELLOWSHIP OF THE CRYSTAL
  
  The game picks up three years after 
 the events of The Eternal Night when Spyro, Cynder and Sparx froze in crystal to survive a crumbling 
 Mount Doom, err I mean Mountain of Malefor. The dragons are awakened by an unnamed enemy and chained 
 together with a magical green snake. Action starts with both dragons forced to fight a giant Golem 
 in an underground ruin that looks like Tolkien's Khazad-dum. While escaping they meet Hunter of 
 Avalar, a cat-like ranger sent by Spyro's mentor, Ignitus. Our young dragons learn that a war against 
 Malefor, the Dark Master, has been raging for the last three years so they head to a besieged Dragon 
 City of Warfang. The game's story borrows heavily from The Lord of the Rings series with an epic 
 tale involving familiar-looking faces (Hunter is a clearly the game's Faramir/Aragorn) fighting 
 an army of evil lead by an ominous Lord. Cynder and Spyro witness a massive battle that includes 
 siege towers charging the ancient capital city of Warfang and a giant monster called The Destroyer 
 that holds a striking resemblance to the fire demon, Balrog, from The Fellowship of the Ring. Creatures 
 of various species forge an alliance to defeat a threat whose only goal is to destroy the world. 
 
  
  Both dragons must now work together to defend their land against a spreading evil. Players can 
 fly at will for the first time in the Spyro franchise. The game also features a co-op mode, both 
 in single and multiplayer. In solo mode players can switch between characters to advance in a game 
 that mainly focuses on puzzle-solving. Everything looks set for a major hit, but unfortunately 
 that is not to be. Previous games were criticized for being too difficult for children and too 
 linear for adults. Sadly, it's still true. The game is far from the masterpiece it deserves to 
 be. 
  
  
  LINEAR, UNINSPIRED AND BORING, BUT A NICE STORY
  
  Production during gameplay is pretty much left in the parking lot. You can't talk or interact with 
 friendly characters during the game. Moments where you would normally expect supporting characters 
 to interact with the two dragons are always silent. After cutscenes your friends just stand there 
 like tree stumps, waiting for the dragons to finish an objective.
  
  Outdoor levels are rather poorly designed. None of them give the impression they are part of a 
 "real" world. This is mainly due to blocky and artificial layouts. Forests and landscapes look 
 like man-made mazes or arenas. All levels are man-made, obviously, but good ones don't give that 
 impression - they have an organic flow. It's hard to convey that feeling when the same giant boulders 
 or trees are blocking strategic locations for the sake of creating artificial paths, which is the 
 case in Dawn of the Dragon. 
  
  Cities are basically large square areas surrounded by walls and blocking volumes. After having 
 collided with numerous invisible barriers blocking what look like areas you should be able to access, 
 players will be conditioned to mistrust the very maps they play in, expecting force fields at every 
 turn. Mistrusting the game you play is not a good thing. If that wasn't enough, certain meshes 
 float in mid-air because of careless placement and many surfaces are oversaturated with lighting. 
 
  
  Spyro and Cynder perform various missions throughout the game, which only compound the bad level 
 designs. Stages are created around the tasks our two protagonists have to solve. This isn't much 
 of a problem in underground areas specifically designed to be giant puzzles, but in outside levels 
 this is a negative. For instance, at one point Spyro and Cynder must bring a raft to an injured 
 character. To do so, players must first get a key from a hermit living in a cave, then use the 
 key to open a door to a room located at the base of a mountain in another part of the map. The 
 room's sole purpose is to contain trigger stones, which for some reason the hermit has a key for. 
 The stones are used to unlock an ugly raft that happens to be hanging on a platform in the middle 
 of nowhere by a river. And it should be noted that the hermit has no apparent relation to the raft... 
 Everything feels tacked on and manufactured. 
  
  
  HERE'S YOUR PUZZLE, NOW FIND THE PIECES
  
  Controls are simple on the ground, decent enough 
 in the air but atrocious while climbing walls. Since the dragons are linked by a magical chain, 
 failing to attach to a surface or running along a wall will lead to both characters falling. And 
 fall they will often. Sometimes the dragons won't connect to a surface even though timing and 
 positioning was spot on, making a large part of the game a living, fire-breathing hell. 
  
  Both characters have to be used in tandem. The magical chain does add some depth to gameplay but 
 Etranges Libellules unfortunately didn't use its full potential. Puzzles are usually easy to figure 
 out. The only instances they give players a hard time is when puzzle elements are not obvious or 
 visible. This reviewer spent a good hour running around helplessly in a level that involves activating 
 four dragon statues, merely because a switch Spyro has to flip with his lightning skill wasn't 
 properly highlighted as a piece of the puzzle (it looks like some decoration) . The camera usually 
 gives us a narrow view of our surroundings. Platforms that need to be accessed are often out of 
 view so players progress with tunnel vision, despite the ability to soar. This is especially true 
 while climbing walls.
  
  For the most part mission scenarios are fairly entertaining. The dragons will assist other characters, 
 carry buckets of water and be tasked with opening or closing various gates. Both characters have 
 unique element skills, which are used to unlock or reach various parts of the game. Spyro can burn 
 plant obstacles and break down some surfaces with his Earth element, and Cynder can use her Shadow 
 skill to pass under specific gates. More time will be spent figuring out puzzles than fighting, 
 which is a good thing because combat is rather shallow. 
  
  Fights often pit our friendly lizards against multiple opponents so things can get a little chaotic. 
 Spyro and Cynder have a strong and weak attack, four unique element spells and a grab. Grabs can 
 swing enemies around and lift them in the air leaving them vulnerable to numerous scratches from 
 the dragon's hind legs (like when a cat play-fights with your hand while on his back) . Playing 
 "fairly" involves all the aforementioned skills and usually means getting your scaly hind knocked 
 around. Playing "unfairly" means relying on a single element skill: Cynder's Shadow element, more 
 specifically the shadow "uppercut" move. The latter clears anybody in Cynder's vicinity and turns 
 surviving enemies against each other. It's so effective players will seldom use anything else. 
 Not that you will care; enemies are as dumb as they look (and they are all pretty ugly) so fighting 
 is just sometime you want out of the way. Enemies will usually appear out of thin air and block 
 all means of escaping until your pair takes care of them. 
  
  Experience points, used to upgrade element skills, are gained by killing enemies, breaking blue 
 "experience" crystals and destroying various objects left behind by whoever lived in the unpopulated 
 levels. Fighting enemies the hard way (by using attacks and grabs) gives more point than using 
 elements, but even if players strictly rely on magic they will max out all their skills three-thirds 
 into the game. Players can also find armor that gives protection and increases various attributes. 
 Health and magic bars are upgraded by finding egg-shaped crystals. 
  
  Bonus material in the form of concept art is unlocked after reaching milestones during the game. 
 The material in question is well done. Most games have static galleries but Etranges Libellules 
 took the time to create beautiful montages with music. Speaking of music, Dawn of the Dragons has 
 an epic score. A few memorable tunes will leave you humming. Along with great voice acting courtesy 
 of Elijah Wood (Spyro) , Christina Ricci (Cynder) , Gary Oldman (Ignitus) and Mark "Luke Skywalker" 
 Hamill, to name a few, as well as an original end-song, it is appears designers took at least some 
 parts of the game seriously. Too bad they didn't put as much effort into level designs and gameplay. 
 
  
  
  SUMMARY
  
  The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon finishes the Trilogy with a rather disappointingly rushed 
 third installment. Levels are unprofessional and puzzles are either too easy or made needlessly 
 complicated because of gameplay issues. So what can Spyro do to improve future games? For starters, 
 it should improve its level designs. They suck. They have nice effects and pretty concept art, 
 but in practice they are boring. Secondly, Spyro should focus on "gamefun" not "gameplay"  it's 
 the only way it can appeal to both the young and old. Lego games hit the nail on the head with 
 perfect gamefun, where getting as much out of levels is what matters, not simply completing them. 
 But that requires details and good level designs, something the Spyro franchise has yet to master. 
 
  
  We won't give up on the little dragon. He's cute and lives in a world most fans of the series want 
 to explore. With the addition of Cynder and Hunter things are bound, nay "deserve", to get better. 
 But Etranges Libellules needs to get their act together during actual production. Nice concept 
 art, good music and great voice-acting won't expand Spyro's world - better levels and gameplay 
 will. The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon has a large heart, unfortunately it is stuck inside 
 the body of a firefly. 
  
  
  Graphics 70
  Nice effects but not enough details and unnatural-looking level designs
  
  Gameplay 64
  Too 
 easy if you use Cynder's Shadow element and too hard if you don't. Levels can leave you stumped 
 for a while
  
  Production 72
  Nice cutscenes and story, and some of the best gallery montages you'll see in a while, but the 
 story doesn't convey well in-game
  
  Sound 80
  The stars do a great job and music will leave you humming. Sadly, no need for various sound effects 
 because of the bleak maps
  
  Lasting Appeal 65
  Finishing the game isn't enough to get all the extras but at 12 hours the first time around getting 
 the rest won't stretch things out by much 
::::::

::::::
UserName: montecristo709
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 24, 2008 6:22 pm PT
Review:  Dawn of The Dragon for The PS3 is far by the most astonoshing Spyro game that I have ever played. 
 Graphics make the other two look like crap and the gameplay really does resemble God Of War movements 
 which is cool. Not only that but having two dragons instead of one makes the game easier to play 
 through.
  
  Even though this game has two player available, just beware, to stick close, otherwise, it will 
 really mess things up since the camareas might stick to one person or get too far away and you 
 can't see each other. But it's still fun to play with your friend with this game. Chose as Spyro 
 or Cynder, whichever one you want and have a good time with it.
  
  Other then that, the story really does make it up for the previous two, which really felt like 
 crap, but the not-so-good storyline for the first two has seriously been paid off in this game. 
 Seriously, it did. The shocking ending which was just as I expected it be is good, and it is also 
 full of surprises.
  
  The cutscenes look like as if you were watching a movie, but their are a few downsides of them, 
 they aren't as too..... uhhhhh...... drastic as the other cutscens from the other games. But better 
 then some drawing cutscenes. (my opinion)
  
  Another thing that is good about this game is teamwork. Spyro and Cynder being together is truly 
 what i call a team. The two of them have good moves and powers, not to mention you can both do 
 Fury at THE SAME TIME!!! 
  
  Overall, i give this game a 10. The Legend of Spyro Dawn of The Dragon will really be the best 
 Spyro games that you have ever played. Oooooooooorah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Eulentier
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 24, 2008 4:47 am PT
Review:  The Legend of Spyro: Dawn of the Dragon is quite the improvement from the previous two titles in 
 the second trilogy, which were average at best. In fact, Dawn of the Dragon may just be as good 
 as the original Playstation trilogy that started ten years ago... well almost.
  
  Spyro now is a more matured dragon along with the game taking a more dark feel than Spyro's past 
 adventures. The combat system is very similar to God of War, with many mindless slashing and bashing 
 combos that can be performed easily and to much amusement - which isn't a bad thing. The new scheme 
 fits well with the game.
  
  You can also join with a friend and play in a two-player cooperative mode at the same time, with 
 one player controlling Spyro, and the other Cynder. This definitely adds to replay value and fun 
 factor.
  
  A few complaints on the controls and camera are notable, such as two-player cooperative mode getting 
 frustrating if you do not follow your partner in tandem. The camera can tend to pan too far out, 
 or follow the wrong player. Additionally flight controls can be confusing unless you change from 
 default to inverted. Sixaxis flight is hit and miss depending on the situation.
  
  Dawn of the Dragon's presentation is solid. Fluid and well rendered graphics are drawn in 720p 
 on both the Playstation 3 and Xbox 360 versions. While the graphics may not be the best seen on 
 either system, they are definitely way above par. Both versions suffer from slowdown in rendering 
 intensive scenes but generally maintain a stable framerate. Textures on the Xbox 360 version seem 
 blurred and washed out compared to the Playstation 3 version. Other than that, the two versions 
 are virtually identical.
  
  The latest Spyro game is definitely worth checking out if you were a fan of the original trilogy 
 - and at an MSRP of $49.99, it is a bargain against other new titles. Dawn of the Dragon gets an 
 8.5/10 in my opinion, and is worth adding to your game library. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
