-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Orange Box
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/halflife2episode2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The Half-Life 2 saga represents some of the greatest shooter gameplay ever made.
 Portal is a brilliant and humorous puzzle game.
 Outstanding visual and audio design.
 An unprecedented value.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The frame rate struggles at times and the loading times are a bit long.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Dec 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 9
Critic Score: 8.9, 20 Review (s)
User Score: 8.8, 2,348 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Dec 11, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The Orange Box is one of the greatest values in gaming history, because it's jam-packed with a variety 
 of world-class content. 

  Game compilations are usually dry and dusty affairs. Most are either a collection of "classic" 
 games that were new 10 or 20 years ago or a repackaging of two- or three-year-old games with all 
 of their expansions. In general, they're usually nothing to get excited about. So trust Valve to 
 completely redefine this category with the weirdly named The Orange Box. This is a package that 
 has something for almost everybody, including one of the greatest shooters ever made and some of 
 the best new and original content of the year.  

           We could make a joke here, but it would pale in comparison to any of the actual comedy 
 in Portal.      

  The Orange Box is essentially five separate games: Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 
 2: Episode Two, the puzzle game Portal, and the colorful multiplayer action game Team Fortress 
 2. Half-Life 2 and Episode One are older games that were originally released for the PC in 2004 
 and 2006, respectively. Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress 2 represent entirely new content 
 that debuted with The Orange Box. The PlayStation 3 version of The Orange Box is identical in content 
 to the recent Xbox 360 and PC versions of the game. For a detailed rundown of what that content 
 includes, you should refer to our  Xbox 360 review .  

  With that said, the PlayStation 3 version of the game doesn't perform nearly as well as its Xbox 
 360 and PC counterparts. There is a noticeable problem with the PS3's frame rate at times. The 
 frame rate hiccups are inexplicable because they can occur when almost nothing is happening onscreen 
 or when you're in the midst of a big battle. It's not a huge gameplay issue, but it is very noticeable 
 and a significant irritation. In addition, the PS3's loading times are longer than the Xbox 360's, 
 and they're frequent enough to be noticeable, especially if you make a habit of dying and restarting. 

  Frame rate and loading issues aside, the content in The Orange Box for the PS3 is as good as the 
 content in the superb Xbox 360 version. This is definitely a must-have game for the platform that 
 will provide countless hours of single- and multiplayer action. It might not be the definitive 
 version of The Orange Box, but it still represents one of the greatest values in gaming history. 
     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (124 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Crypto-19
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2009 2:43 pm PT
Review:  Where to begin? How about that this game has 5 amazing games for the incredible price of a Ps2 
 greatest hits game?! That's right, The Orange Box includes Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 Episode One, 
 Half-Life 2 Episode Two, Portal, and Team Fortress! What other proof do you need that The Orange 
 Box is amazing?! How about I tell you about each individual game? All of Half-Life 2 games have 
 flawless graphics, that are so amazing they look as if they were real! Team Fortress, I haven't 
 played this game as much as I have with Half-Life 2, or Portal, but the times that I have played 
 it, it was pure fun! It's online multiplayer is fun and never gets old! Even tho the graphics for 
 this game aren't nearly as good as Half-Life 2, this game will always be fun, no matter what! Lastly... Portal!!! 
 This game is highly addictive, never-ending, non-repetitive, pure awesome FUN! Even tho at times 
 you will get mad, and frustrated, when you figure out the puzzle you'll feel proud and accomplished! 
 And let me tell you, this is one of those games that actually has made me laugh! Don't be stupid 
 and go around wasting $60 for a game that isn't as nearly as long as this, or nearly as fun, or 
 nearly as economic as The Orange Box! GO BUY IT! :D
  
  -Crypto-19 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JoshMiester
Rating: 10
Date: Feb 26, 2009 7:07 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2: Gordon Freeman doesn't fear a single beast. He never has, and he never will. Thats 
 what makes him such a great character for a game like this. Play as the legendary Gordon Freeman 
 in this game just like you always have and always should.
  This game has well improved graphics, phenomenal voice acting, sweet weapons, cool enemies, and 
 the new gravity gun (which allows you to pick up certain objects and either place them or throw 
 them) . To be honest, HL2 allow you to obliterate every single opposition even more than before.
 
  
  Portal: You shall pass through unique testchambers in this game, creating and utilizing portals 
 to get through each testchamber.
  Like Half-Life, Portal has terrific voice acting, along with similar gameplay. If you are not simple-minded 
 and love puzzle games, well actually, YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE A FAN OF PUZZLE GAMES, THIS GAME WILL 
 KEEP YOU GLUED TO YOUR TV UNTIL THE GAME ENDS. The only flaw is that the game is a bit to short, 
 but then again, it has no reason to be long, so that isn't necessarily a bad thing.
  
  Team Fortress 2: Who is your king of this multiplayer game. The heavy, the scout, the soldier, 
 the sniper, the spy, the pyro, the demoman, the engineer, OR the medic. Well, they all are great 
 characters who have something great about them.
  I have played FPSs like Resistance and Call of Duty online, but I never thought I would play such 
 a FANTASTIC FPS like this. It combines humor with brutality and good characters with good weapons. 
 In this game, they take pieces if a great game, and peice them together perfectly. The only flaw 
 is NO storyline, but then again, it being a only a online based, it doesn't exactly need one.
 
  
  OVERALL: Very minor flaws
  Great gameplay
  Great graphics
  Great voice acting
  Equal up to the perfect game pack.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheGameGoddess
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 20, 2009 12:04 pm PT
Review:  Well i have to say The Orange Box is really addictive and really good for your money aswell. You 
 get 5 games with it yes you heard right 5 games. After playing Half Life i just had to play this 
 game as i found the first game rather enjoyable. Now FPS isnt my favourite genre of games actually 
 its probably near the bottom but this game is really fun. First ill just tell you what you get 
 in the collection. The 5 games you get are Half Life 2 and its expansion Episode One, Episode 2, 
 Team Fortress and Portal. I didnt play Team Fortress to be honest as i didnt find that enjoyable 
 but thats just me. Half Life 2 lets us take the role of Gordon Freeman again in City 17. The game 
 stands out from other FPS because of its awesome story and physics-based puzzles and huge life 
 like areas. Episode one we get to meet Alyx Vance (kick ass :P ) and it starts just after the end 
 of Half Life 2. Episode 2 focuses on expanded environments, travel, and less linear gameplay. Gordon 
 Freeman and the series other major characters move out from City 17 to the surrounding area following 
 the closing events of Episode One. Team fortress is basicaly a big multiplayer game. Finnaly we 
 have the most genius thing iv ever played Portal. The game consists mostly of a series of puzzles 
 that are solved by teleporting the player's character and simple objects using something called 
 Aperture Science Handheld Portal Device aka the "portal gun". The goal of each puzzle is to reach 
 an exit point. The portal gun and the unusual physics it creates are the emphasis of the game. 
 Portal won many game of the year awards too which was pretty cool. Half Life 2 also got game of 
 the year awards aswell. Anyways with all this you will be busy for quite a while. I will say the 
 graphics are really good and you really feel like your in the world and unlike some shooters the 
 game never bores you after a certain period because your always going somewhere new and doing different 
 things whether its shooting or physic based puzzles. The story also keeps you interested in the 
 game too. Id say the game has a good length and is a good difficulty and never bores you unlike 
 some shooters iv played for example Halo. Not being a fangirl or anything but the main game/story 
 in that was patheticaly short (but good) and it was pretty much the same thing that other shooters 
 have done. Its games like this the really good unique ones that dont get enough attention. Too 
 many fanboys ranting over Halo or Call Of duty when those games arent nearly as good (imo) So yeah 
 id say if you like FPS or if you dont like them as much (like me) at least rent this game or buy 
 and it and see what its like because it is really fun and interesting especially Portal you have 
 to play Portal :P 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D33g0
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 11, 2009 7:23 am PT
Review:  So I Got This Game With My PS3. I Think We Used To Have The First Half Life. Anyway This Game Is 
 Where Gaming Graphics Were Completely Evolved. Made In 2004 Originally For The PC The Graphics 
 Are Brilliant Even Compared To Recent PS3 Releases. Half Life 2 Navigates Similarly To The First 
 One So Its Easy Enough To Get Used To If You've Played The First One. As Of November 2008 3 Million 
 Copies Were Sold.
  
  The Game Itself Is Brilliant Because Of The Atmosphere It Creates. It Makes Broad Daylight Seem 
 Scary In Certain Levels. The Weapons Aren't Exactly Plentiful And The Enemies Are Too Easy To Kill. 
 Normally You Wouldn't Get Stuck Because Of Dying But More Because Of The Puzzles They Put In. Some 
 Of These Puzzles Are Frustrating So Unless You're Willing To Spend The Time Or If You're Good At 
 Problem Solving You're Gonna Get Frustrated.
  
  I Got The Game For 20Euro And It Has 4 Games On It So I Suggest Buying It Because It Is A Great 
 Game In Itself. I Personally Haven't Played Portal But Team Fortress 2 Never Joins Game And Since 
 Its All Online I Guess Its Pretty Pointless In My Case. Overall I Give It A Good Mark Because Of 
 Half Life And Not Because Of Team Fortress 2. My Rating Does Not Include Portal So Even Though 
 People Say Portal's Great Its Not Included In My Overall Score. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dj_c4
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 17, 2008 11:06 pm PT
Review:  Lets get this out of the way right now. Orange Box is a must buy for any FPS fan that owns a PS3. 
 Period. 
  
  I waited for so long to buy this game because I read a ton of user reviews and official game site 
 reviews that said "Orange Box on the console (particularly PS3) is crap."
  
  They are retarded. Lets also get that out of the way.
  
  I grew up on PC FPS and used to run 
 my own CS (Counter Strike) Server. I have also always felt that "if I can't play it on a keyboard 
 and mouse, then it's a crappy FPS experience."
  
  Wrong.
  
  This was the best FPS experience I have had in so long. It took me about 30 min to get used to 
 it, and a solid day to love it. 
  
  I could see where a mouse would be much better for online play in a game like CS, especially for 
 getting more head shots. But that is not even an issue in the orange box single player games (which 
 is 4 / 5 games included for the 25$ I paid for this game NEW shipped from eBay) .
  
  In fact, due to the common driving sequences in HL2 I prefer the controller. I find It's annoying 
 to drive vehicles in combat with a mouse and keyboard and there's two very lengthy instances of 
 driving / boating and gunning.
  
  Now onto the graphics and frame rate.
  
  Well I've played this on a top of the line computer well rated over the RECOMMENDED PC requirements 
 and the PS3 looks just as good. And for anyone who said the game lagged and the low FPS made it 
 unplayable. You are either lying, your TV has a crap refresh rate and you have motion blur or your 
 PS3 is broken. 
  
  Sorry if you have had any problems with this game but the only instance of frame rate drop I had 
 is when an entire buildings roof fell down in the middle of a giant battle with two five-story 
 tall striders, about 8 combine soldiers in the surrounding buildings shooting at me, the roads 
 were on fire and I had 4 NPC team mates with me. The FPS dropped for about 2 seconds as I went 
 into a stare case. the rest of the game was flawless.
  
  The only advantages PC has over the console version:
  
  -Better updates / service
  
  -Downloadable 
 Mods (CS, G-MOD, D. O. D etc) 
  
  -Instant loading of quick save files.
  
  -Team fortress is apparently better (plays better, updates, more people online) , but i never got 
 into this game. it's too cartoony and goofy for me. I just like CS.
  
  Load Time Issue:
  
  To quick save in the PS3 you just hold start. which is easy as hell. Loading takes about 10 
 seconds on average. On two occasions it took 20 seconds, which is a little long. But it only happened 
 twice. 
  
  If this is a problem for you, stop dying. 
  
  Loss of instant save and load actually made me a better HL player because I used to play so lazy. 
 I would just constantly press F6 / F7 every 5 seconds and retry every single part. 
  
  You might as well have god mode on if you want to F6/F7 every few steps. This isn't Prince of Persia 
 Sands of Times. Play the game. If this is too much time to load a save file, then yes by all means 
 go play it on PC.
  
  Final Verdict:
  
  Best 25$ I've spent on a PS3 game. I did not buy this for Team Fortress I bought it to play HL2, 
 HL2 EP1, EP2 and Portal. If you want to play Team Fortress, download Team Fortress for your PC.
 
  
  If you are in the same boat as me and just want to play the HL2 series in pristine beautiful graphics... Go 
 buy it now if you had any doubts. I recommend eBay for cheap new and used copies. You won't regret 
 it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HaXeR
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 15, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Not to say that Half Life 2 and Team Fortress 2 are bad, not at all, but Portal was just an awesome 
 game that i don't think i'll ever forget. (i can see why Yahtzee Croshaw likes it so much) . It 
 was hilarious, interesting, and most importantly, it was a lot of fun. It was also really innovative. 
 A first-person puzzle game? A puzzle shooter? Really not sure which genre this would fall under, 
 but i like it. I actually wish it was a little longer, which is the main reason i'm only giving 
 The Orange Box a 9.0/10. Well, that, and Team Fortress 2 was a bit of a letdown. A BIT. Not bad 
 at all, i just had really high expectations for that one. (oh, and as for Half Life 2, i really 
 can't make any fair judgment on that one yet, as i havent played that far into it. It's good so 
 far :) But that's all i can say for now.)
  
  But, do yourself a favor and pick this up. With 5 great games in one, you really can't go wrong. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mprezzy
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:26 am PT
Review:  So, this review comes after the game has been out a very long time, but it's hit the $20 mark in 
 stores, so I thought I'd give a review of it since the price may be pulling more people to buy 
 it now.
  
  **The most important thing to know is that, at 5 games in one orange box, it's the best deal for 
 a game (s) I've ever seen, and for that alone; it's worth it.**
  
  For the unlimited resource folks who don't care about that: here's a few quibbles:
  
  I was 
 looking forward to getting this one on PS3, hoping that; like Oblivion, it would look much better 
 than on my dinosaur-of-a-computer. I was pretty disappointed. The graphics don't look any better 
 at all. That's not to say they aren't GOOD graphics, but they aren't SPECTACULAR. 
  
  Gameplay is pretty awesome on all the games. Typically, the focus will be on Half-Life 2, as it's 
 the bread and butter of the collection. (I dig Portal, but that's a game that has "personal preference" 
 written all over it.) 
  
  I find the story in Half-Life 2 pretty compelling. Confusing at times, and blanks need to clearly 
 be filled in. If I had to complain about some details of the game, it would be the lack of a variety 
 of enemies. To me, shooting the same 4 or 5 things over and over gets tiresome. And, like Resistance, 
 they have the "make sound to alert you I'm coming" thing going on. That's a weird thing to me. 
 Common, but weird. 
  
  You get a great variety of fun weapons (big fan of the gravity gun) , and you get to romp around 
 in a dune buggy. At least, that's what we call 'em where I'm from, but we don't have machine guns 
 on the front. THAT is fun. 
  
  Like Half-Life 1 waaay back in the day, walking on ledges is a common thing. That can be very frustrating 
 in first-person, as can be jumping and landing. Whoops! Fall. Whoops! Fall. Whoops! Fall. But, 
 you get used to it.
  
  Online play is typically better on PC's, as are controls. It's still awesome to have good multiplayer 
 built in. Cooperative play story line doesn't exist in Half-Life 2, but would've been impossible 
 to implement as far as the story goes. Button mapping is present, that's a plus. 
  
  **Not having to install the highly invasive STEAM PROGRAM nearly makes up for all that the PS3 
 version lacks from the PC version.**
  
  Overall, despite little blurbs here and there, this is the best valued Box around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dericous
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:31 pm PT
Review:  I was really blown away by this game. The graphics of the scenery are amazing. These games cross 
 survival horror with first person shooter madness. More than once I found myself getting kind of 
 freaked out. Half Life 2 was the lengthiest of the three installments. I really fell in love with 
 the backdrops of the game. Especially outside, with all the nuclear war aftermath showing everywhere. 
 I have always been intrigued by story's with this sort of back drop. Being able to drive around 
 in vehicles, boats and cars, while checking out scenery and blasting the combine troops back to 
 their own planet. This game definitely rocks. The only issues i had were with the bad targeting 
 system, and the sometimes blockish graphics on the creatures. But neither were too bad. I definitely 
 think everyone should play these games at some point. You can get through them pretty quickly, 
 but the experience will stick with you for all of your gaming days.
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 1:32 pm PT
Review:  Sorry this review is so long, however you have to agree with me that there is a lot to cover within 
 'The Orange Box'
  
  The reason it's taken me so long to start writing reviews is that I've only really just started 
 feeling that I need to contribute in some small way to Gamespot's massive database of reviews, 
 previews, video's etc. However I feel that in order to get a good enough grasp of a game to give 
 it an accurate review, you need to have completed it, this is something easier said than done with 
 orange box, a game that boasts three fully fleshed out shoot em ups, a puzzle/shooter hybrid and 
 an addictive multiplayer that causes both tears of joy and frustration. I am going to review each 
 game individually as I believe this is the best way to give you a good impression of what to expect 
 from valve's the orange box.
  
  Half Life 2: 
  
  When the original Half Life came out, it was considered revolutionary, combining a great story 
 with an even better shooter and it revolutionised its story telling by eliminating cut scenes altogether, 
 instead having you witness everything through the eyes of the protagonist Gordon Freeman. 
  
  Half life two doesn't make as big an impact as its predecessor 
  Did, however that isn't 
 to say that it isn't a brilliant game, it's just that it does little new, instead choosing to build 
 upon the success of the previous game. Again don't get me wrong, this is one of the best shoot 
 em up's that I have played in years.
  
  The game starts off where half life ends; Gordon Freeman has accepted the offer from G-Man to work 
 for him. He is placed on a train (20 years after the black mesa incident though some sources say 
 it was only 10) and immediately you are thrusted into the bleak futuristic City-17 where propaganda 
 blasts through speakers. The game does a great job of creating atmosphere, from the talks between 
 the NPC's which have nothing to do with the storyline (such as a husband reassuring his wife that 
 everything will be alright when Gordon enters the apartment) to the dramatic music score that crops 
 up frequently, building a good amount of tension.
  
  The Guns in Half Life two however feel slightly mismatched, most guns seem well balanced but it 
 can be frustrating when you plug 7 bullets into a Combine (Transhuman soldiers) only to see they 
 still can stand and plug yet another round of machine fire into your face. While some people will 
 say, this is because they aren't human are they, which is why they can take an extraordinary amount 
 of damage, it led to frustrating firefights in a few of the levels. However overall I thought the 
 guns were well balanced, but the best gun of half life 2 isn't technically a gun so much as a tool, 
 I'm talking about the Gravity Gun. This Marvel helps boast Valve's new physic's engine, the Havok 
 Physics engine, which was creating alongside their source engine. The Gravity gun can pick up most 
 things that aren't alive, and later when it's upgraded, any living thing as well. It also introduces 
 some interesting puzzles, something that most first person shooters attempt, but are never really 
 the sort of puzzles that are inspirational, however Half life 2 delivers here, the puzzles are 
 innovative and often require the user to think outside the box, but they aren't too difficult, 
 creating a perfect combination of shooting, platforming, and puzzle solving, a rarity to say the 
 least.
  
  The Graphics in Half life 2 are good, they aren't amazing, but they are good, bearing in mind this 
 game was released somewhere in 2004 originally, for its time the graphics were mind-blowing, but 
 by today's standards they aren't anything special. The lighting effects are extremely good and 
 the setting in general are adequate by today's standards, however something that frustrated me 
 was some textures looked extremely bland and some character model's seemed to be recycled all too 
 frequently. While I don't mind seeing an NPC (that isn't an enemy) in different areas 4 or 5 times 
 even if they have been killed off prior, it gets a bit frustrating when you're commanding a group 
 of people that are exact clones of each other.
  
  In terms of length the game is very satisfying, although it only takes about 7 hours to complete 
 if you're a good gamer, (some may find it takes more than that depending on what difficulty they 
 have it on, I played on hard difficulty) , it is long enough so you don't feel ripped off but not 
 too long that you feel as if the game is dragging on.
  
  The biggest flaw that I found with Half life 2: (having completed Half life) is that it seems to 
 raise more questions than it answers, which although may not bother those that haven't played the 
 original and are simply just picking up the orange box, I found it frustrating that you still know 
 little about G-Man and the mysterious combine, it was also strange seeing Alyx Vance flirt with 
 Gordon Freeman, who throughout the game remains silent. As you can see, the fact that what I just 
 mentioned I find is the biggest flaw makes Half Life 2 Pretty much perfect.
  
  
  Half Life 2: Episode 1 & 2
  
  These Continuations of Half Life two only take about three and 
 a half hours to complete each and after both you feel like it ended on quite an abrupt note, that's 
 not to say that the games are bad though, every minute of it is crammed with all the action, puzzles 
 and platforming you could wish for. It features gargantuan battles, including a battle where the 
 battlefield is so big you need a car just to get around. 
  
  Half life 2 ep1 and ep 2 both use the same physics and graphics engine as Half life 2, again this 
 isn't a bad thing, but it is essentially more of the same. If I had bought these games by themselves 
 when they came out, I would have felt extremely ripped off, however in context with the Orange 
 Box, they are a good addition to an already great game.
  
  There isn't much I can say about Half life 2 ep1 and ep2 without sounding repetitive, and that 
 is because a lot of it uses the same formula as before, but with a different backdrop. I must stress 
 again however this isn't a bad thing at all; it's just a bit lame that when you play expecting 
 new guns, new enemies and new environments, you end up getting a progressive feeling of de ja vu 
 as you play. However the addition of 'zombine' is a nice touch (The Transhuman combine with a headcrab 
 attached to where their head should have been :D)
  
  Yet again Ep 1 and Ep1 features physic based puzzles, and some amazing set battles, it truly is 
 a marvel to play, but it does seem like Valve didn't want to risk losing fans through introducing 
 any new concepts into the Half Life franchise, instead choosing to develop what they already have.
 
  
  The only major difference I can think of compared to Half life 2: is the proper introduction of 
 a NPC sidekick in the form of the recurring character Alyx Vance, I felt that this made a nice 
 change from Half life 2 where you fought alone, Valve once again has gotten the friendly AI spot 
 on, Alyx will provide covering fire and react differently to situations then you would come to 
 expect. She really is useful, although she can't actually die, she isn't useless in that she barely 
 kills anyone, but she isn't annoying enough to kill everyone and take all the fun and difficulty 
 out of EP1 and EP2. 
  
  Congrats Valve on the spot on AI again in EP1 and EP2, even the creatures behave like you think 
 they would, I often caught myself thinking if I were an acid spewing antlion, I would definitely 
 be running towards Gordon Freeman from behind right now in an attempt to melt his face off, and 
 sure enough I was never disappointed. The combine are still as intelligent as ever, lobbing grenades 
 and providing covering fire, however it seems valve tweaked the amount of shots needed to kill 
 them, which is a good thing, as it was sometimes impossible to kill a combine enemy if you had 
 low life as you'd get a round out of your gun the combine will already have fired twenty in your 
 direction.
  
  One thing that I didn't mention in Half life 2 but is also in these games as well are the useful 
 quick save feature, by holding the SELECT button on the sixaxis, you can quicksave exactly as you 
 are, health, ammo, Environmental suit health, and the number of enemies you have managed to kill. 
 It's good if your called off to go somewhere for a while and don't want to leave your PS3 on.
 
  
  Overall, although short, I think that combined half life 2: Episodes 1 & 2 are better games than 
 Half life 2 due to the introduction of Zombine, a new form of Antlion and some truly breathtaking 
 battles (particularly in Episode 2) .
  
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  
  Ah Team Fortress, how sad that a game that is so good and fun to play can also be so frustrating. 
 This is due to your dependency on other players, something that can in fact be seen in most class 
 based shooters. Team Fortress offers overpowered classes, which in turn makes everyone pretty balanced, 
 it's just fun seeing a regular soldier have a rocket launcher as their normal weapon and a defender 
 carrying around a minigun. Team Fortress 2 offers a range of classes, from
  
  The graphics for Team Fortress are extremely cartoony, which for me added an appeal which made 
 me think that the game wouldn't have been as good if it had aimed to be realistic. 
  
  The guns also feel really balanced which is a surprise and one of the only 'normal' weapons that 
 you would find on other multiplayer games is the sniper rifle and the shot gun, the rocket launcher 
 reloads fairly quickly but its blast radius isn't as big as you'd expect and its often better to 
 just be a scout and run up to your opponent and blast them to kingdom come.
  
  The biggest gripe I have about this multiplayer is not its longevity or the fact that sometimes 
 it's difficult to find a server, and sometimes you can see evidence of lag, but the other players 
 themselves. Team fortress is clearly a game that is meant to be played cooperatively, with people 
 working together to beat the other team, however most teams don't communicate at all, resulting 
 in the enemy team opening an unholy can of whoop ass upon your being due to the lack of people 
 around you to help, it's also frustrating that when you come in, to see everyone as a soldier or 
 a sniper, and no one as a defender for modes such as capture the flag where they are most vital.
 
  
  Some people may also find the lack of incentive to play team fortress a problem, there is no levelling 
 up, no really competitive ranking systems in place, it does track your stats, but with a lack of 
 friends to compare it to, I found that TF2 didn't really hold my attention for that long. So unless 
 you can convince all your mates to buy orange box alongside you, don't go around hoping that TF2 
 is the next big multiplayer shoot em up, because frankly it isn't, it's fun, but it isn't in the 
 leagues of R6: Vegas or COD4
  
  
  Portal:
  
  The unsung star of the orange box, this puzzle hybrid combines the best of Half life 2's physics 
 based puzzles with its own unique twist on thinking outside the box, for example, momentum must 
 be used in puzzles. The idea behind portal is that you fire and orange portal and a blue portal 
 from your gun, you go in the blue portal, you come out the orange and vice versa. Yet if you put 
 one on the ground and one against a wall, and jump into the one on the ground from a height, you 
 will come shooting out the other portal. This leads to some ingenious puzzles.
  
  The star of the show however is GlaDOS the Ai program that assists you during the events of Portal, 
 although she is involved in the twist at during the middle of the game, GlaDOS' unintentional humour 
 during the game brings relief to what would otherwise be a quiet game, there is no soundtrack except 
 in the credits, so all you have for company is GlaDOS, slowly GlaDOS' develops awareness throughout 
 the game and her Unintentional humour begins to turn into jokes and juvenile insults etc.
  
  I loved portal as it was so different from Half Life 2 and its other counter parts, the only 
 thing it really shares in common with Half life 2 and the rest is the fact it uses the Source and 
 Havok engine.
  
  
  The Orange Box is the perfect game for anyone looking to pick up a Bargain, some shops only selling 
 it for 20 now, however even if you just looking for a good game, The Orange Box is the game to 
 buy, it promises something for everyone, and it truly doesn't fail to keep that promise.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: thedevildweller
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 7, 2008 9:26 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box Review by Simon a. k. a. TheDevilDweller
  
  
  The Good:
  Five Games in One
  
  
  
  The Bad:
  Same of Graphics, Team Fortress 2
  
  
  
  I'm 
 not going to lie, I am a virgin to Half Life and The Orange Box is my first Half Life experience. 
 At first I found it quite hard and painful but the more I  played the game the easier and more 
 comfortable I got, and I found it rather good. 
  
  The Orange Box is without a doubt a great package. You get five games in one, Half Life 2, Half 
 Life 2: Episode One and Episode Two, Portal and Team Fortress 2. Four amazing game, and Team Fortress 
 which I personally thought it was poor. It's just an online game and a game you may not play often. 
 The best thing about this great package is Portal. If you want or are going to get Portal or Half 
 Life, you should definitely get this great package. Yes the graphics are not as great as games 
 nowadays but still worth playing. 
  
  The Orange Box Overall  8/10
  
  Half Life 2  8/10
  HL: Episode One  8/10
  HL: Episode Two  8/10
  Portal  9/10
  Team 
 Fortress 2  4/10
  
  Simon.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dream_Clock
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 5:39 pm PT
Review:  So as usual the PS3 version of this game is rated worse than its competitors. I don't use my PC 
 as a gaming machine nor do I have a 360, so that choice is up to you. However, I can tell you that 
 this is a great game package. I rented this game and had a fairly short while to play it but it 
 was pretty good for the while I did play it. Yes the graphics were kind of outdated, but they were 
 incredible games in there. Portal blew my mind. As someone who loves puzzle games, it was amazing 
 the only problem seemed to be the limited problem of levels, yet I'm pretty sure considering there 
 are 4 other games there (technically two,) you shouldn't have a hard time. 
  Team Fortress 2 was once again pretty cool considering I did not have much time playing it. It 
 is class based, and I have to say it was different and quite funny. If you are a casual gamer, 
 this will definitely be the game you'll love. 
  Half Life 2, Episode One and Episode Two are all different games. I played only the first one and 
 I experienced some flaws with it. First one being that the game is slightly confusing as well as 
 it has a fairly steep curve, so getting the hang of it might take a while. The Intro was also fairly 
 long and it took awhile to get into the game.
  
  So although I didn't get much time with the game I think you should definitely check this game 
 out for a rent. If you like it, just pay the rest and buy it.
  
  It should also be noted that Team Fortress 2 is online only. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jekken6
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 8:57 pm PT
Review:  HALF-LIFE 2:
  GOOD:
  -Fantastic story
  -Highly addictive
  -Fantastic graphics
  - Great characters
  - good weapon arsenal-not too little, but not too many
  -Puzzles-makes 
 the game more unique from other FPSs
  -Can give you quite a scare
  -Satisfying gore
  BAD:
  -Framerate issues
  -load times
  -No Mods
  
  EPISODE ONE:
  GOOD:
  -see HALF-LIFE 
 2
  -continuation of the HL2 story
  -Not an expansion pack-standalone game
  BAD:
  See HALF-LIFE 2
  -No Mods
  
  EPISODE 2:
  GOOD:
  -See EPISODE ONE and HALF-LIFE 2
  BAD:
 
  -See EPISODE ONE and HALF-LIFE 2
  -No Mods
  
  PORTAL:
  GOOD:
  -Unique
  -Humorous
  -Challenging
  -weird, really, really weird
  BAD:
  - Can't eat the cake
  -loadtime 
 and framerate issues
  -No Mods
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  GOOD:
  -Makes up for the lost online play of HL2
  -Straight-to-business and not immature (like most 
 online games)
  -Multiple play-styles
  -Unique art-style
  -Satisfying gore
  BAD:
  -Frame-rate issues and load times
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonic-36
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 30, 2008 4:25 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is instantly one of the best games of all time. The game consists of 5 games. Portal, Half 
 Life 2, Half Life 2 episode one, Half Life 2 episode 2, and Team fortress 2. The story for Half Life 
 2 is the best story in any video game. However it does have some confusing parts. Portal also has 
 a pretty good story, for it being a puzzle game. Team Fortress 2 has no story or point whatsoever 
 but is still incredible. The gameplay is very well done. Portal has some pretty challenging puzzles 
 and so does Half Life. Team Fortress 2 is a good multiplayer game but it is filled with lags. The 
 voice acting in all games is simply amazing and is the best you will find in any game today. The 
 game also has some humorous aspects. The only problem with the game is frame rate, all of the games 
 in this box have frame rate issues that are pretty noticeable but either way it is a major must 
 buy!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: netlogician
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 18, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  Many new games tout flashy graphics or gameplay gimmicks (The Force Unleashed, Fracture, etc.) . 
 The Orange Box, on the other hand, delivers solid game play and hours of entertainment. Oh, and 
 five games for the price of one!
  
  Although I've never been much of a first-person shooter fan, Half Life 2 is worth the price of 
 admission. HL2 is a solid shooter with great graphics, intuitive controls, and destructible environments. 
 It is a great game to buy for FPS novices with aspirations to get hooked on the genre.
  
  Like puzzles? So do I... and, I'm s-o-o-o hooked on Portal. Portal is like the game equivalent of 
 that creepy, claustrophobic, sci-fi flick, "Cube." In the movie, people wake-up inside of a large 
 Cube with no idea how they got there. They have to figure out puzzles to get from room to room 
 within the structure. Portal is kind of like that, only you have this awesome weapon that shoots 
 portals to let you teleport from one spot to another.
  
  Unfortunately, I doubt I will venture far into the Team Fortress territory... on-line multiplayer 
 scares the heck out of me. 
  
  Whether you are a fan of single player action, shooters, puzzle games, or online multiplayer action, 
 get The Orange Box... It rocks! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 417alum
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 26, 2008 7:52 pm PT
Review:  
  You probalby already know, but The Orange Box comes PACKED with... dum dum duuuuuuh
  -Half Life 2
  -Half Life 2: Episode one
  -Half LIfe 2: Episode two
  -Portal
  -Team Fortress 
 two
  
  Half Life 2, as one of the most innovative games of all time already deserves a 10/10.
  But when 
 you pack on two expansion packs, (episode 2 being the newest installment) and a game that could 
 be the next generation of puzzle games (portal) AND (enough and's for you yet??) Team Fortress 
 two, you have one kick ass package.
  
  Portal blurrs the line between objectives and enemies in a side splitting 19 (+) levels of brain 
 teasing puzzles, while Team Fortress two makes you a good team player and is a new experience every 
 time you play it. 
  
  It does not get better than this. I have been playing games for over 9 years, and this is one of 
 my favorite games ever. But no doubt, the best FPS game ever.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  I really can't say enough about The Orange Box, four great first person shooters and one OK first 
 person multiplayer game. TO THE REVIEW... S
  
  THIS COUNTS AS MY HALF LIFE 2 REVIEW!!
  
  Half Life 2: Without a doubt in my mind this is the most emotionally intense game made so far and 
 what I mean by that is you can really get attached to some of the characters; in the opening level, 
 you will really feel the level of sadness and hopelessness coming from even the minor characters. 
 The strider battles are probably the most intense game sequences I've ever played, and the sound 
 effects and voice acting are incredible.
  
  Episode 1: This is a great expansion with even more intense battles.... but it's criminally short, 
 5-6 hours at the most. That's all for this one.
  
  Episode 2: This is a great expansion with even more intense battles.... but it's criminal, WAIT!! 
 I seem to be repeating myself, probably because these expansions are doing the same, sure there's 
 a few new environments but it's just the same kind of stuff seen in the last games.
  
  Episode 3: Oh wait, that's right, Valve didn't want us to see the end of the triolgy so they left 
 the third one out.
  
  Portal: I can't say enough about this one either, the most creative gameplay I've ever seen, but 
 it's so simple, but it's also so freakin' short; you can finish it in one sitting (3 hours) . The 
 dialogue is immersive with it's own brand of pitch black humor. I recommend that people buy The 
 Orange Box just for this game.
  
  Team Fortress 2: What can I say, it's fun and it's surprisingly gorey. It's shallow, but incredibly 
 well balanced. Here's the kicker, its only got three maps... yeah, I was p*ssed too.
  
  I think I've said enough, That's all Folks!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heavy2v2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  I would play the game for about 2-3 hrs. a day but it got to the point where ok you just beat the 
 game and now what? Team Fortress 2 was my favorite because it was a total on line game. The only 
 down side to that game was not only did the game lag a lot but if you had spawn campers or strategic 
 players it didn't make the game any better than it already is. Portal was also very fun until you 
 beat the game. Then that's when it got to the point where ok I beat the game now what. If I were 
 you the person reading this don't buy this game for the PS3. Buy it for the PC. Not only do you 
 get updates on all of the characters but it may not lag up as much. You also have a bigger selection 
 on maps. For Portal you'll have a few more challenges which makes the game better. If I'm correct 
 all of the Half -Life games are the same. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: catboxcandy
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 9:31 am PT
Review:  To start it all off, this is probably the best value of a game you'll find anywhere; 5 games in 
 one!! I must say, TF2 is the weakest link. I'll start off this review with the least important 
 part of any review; the graphics. Portal looks shiny and smooth, TF2 offers some unique cell-shading, 
 and Half-Life 2 just looks super realistic. The music is awsome! Half-Life 2 has some late 90's 
 pump-up tunes, that do their job, and Portal has the siick song at the by the over-voice thing. 
 Portal is also just very funny, with the things the voice says, such as the cake. But overall, 
 the gameplay is what really matters and that is where The Orange Box stands out. Portal has the 
 unique fps feel, but it's really just a puzzler, making paths by placing two ends of a portal; 
 basically, this game makes you think, which modern-day games lack. Half-Life 2 has some stellar 
 firefights, like the ending stalkers, and antlion tunnels, and it has puzzles along the way, so 
 it combines action with thinking, it's awsome. It also offers some unique weapons; guided rockets, 
 red-hot-crossbow, and the gravity gun. Unlike most games and movies of the modern day, this game 
 actually has a sad ending, im sick of that sappy crap. So basically Portal and Half-Life 2 are 
 two very unique pieces of a not-too-unique genre. Then there's Team Fortress 2. You can choose 
 between different classes each having their own abilities, such as looking like your on the other 
 team, building turrets, sniping, healing, assaulting... the gameplay really reminds me of the Unreal 
 Tournaments, fast paced. TF2 is nothing special, but it can be forgiven with two other great games. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: x2926014
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2008 2:21 am PT
Review:  Half life 2- Well you are Doctor Gordon Freeman a man that was in the black mesa incident in the 
 previous game and you start in a train after earing what the suited up man (g-man) has to say to 
 you. Then you run into an old friend from Black Mesa that helps you escape the train station. But 
 not the trouble's that seem to like you.
  Half life2 episode 1-This time you and Alix have to run from ZOMBIES!!!! It's basicly this for about 
 5 chapters and this is the worst episode so far it's really boring and dark...
  Half-life2 episode 2-The forest... How pretty... Well not that pretty. Alix here get injured by a 
 combine monster and you have to help her get saved! And a surprising end... Poor alix...
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Let's leave the half life saga behind 
 and let's focuse on the other goodies that this INCREDIBLE game reserves for you.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  Portal-"The cake is a lie!"
  Well 
 you start in a bed in the Aperture science lab. Then you ear voices! It's GlaDos the resident robot 
 and "mentor". She will say what you must do to face the puzzles that each level as in store for 
 you... (Yes you have to think if you wan't to finish portal)
  
  Team Fortress 2-This game simply OWNS!!! Well i played it for hours! I was 112 in the European rank! It's 
 very addicting with lot's of maps and modes for you to play! But you must have online to play it 
 unfortunately. Bad thing about this game is the absence of a offline multiplayer mode.
  --------------------------------------------------------
  If you wan't to spend Hours playing 
 without getting bored, this is the game for you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GWfreak
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2008 10:56 pm PT
Review:  When hearing the name 'The Orange Box' you would think it was some sort of puzzle game that somehow 
 made it onto the PS3 due to Japan's fondness for complicated thinking games. When hearing that 
 it was a 5 game in one package you would be expecting an assortment of games that could never had 
 made it out alone so opted for a cheap bundled pack. However, the gaming community has never been 
 more lucky to have been proven wrong.
  
  The Orange Box delivers something that we have never thought possible. Five complete stand alone 
 games bundled for the price of one. And when I say stand alone I mean you could sell these on the 
 market and not be scoffed. Many gamers when noticing the game off the shelves they think that it's 
 a five demo pack. And when told it's a 5 solid game pack usually they would expect some sort of 
 catch. And it is one, a huge catch of five good games for the price of one.
  
  Now, since when does a bundle pack come with the game of the year, Half Life 2? Someone pinch me 
 I must be dreaming-someone is going to jail because this is robbery on the gaming industry. 
  
  The graphics must be toned down considering it's a 5 game pack. Um, no, and you know if they 
 were they could get away with it. But the grapichs on all 5 games are good enough that they can 
 be those 'show off the PS3' games. Half Life 2 has an amasingly interactive world that its graphics 
 magnify to the limit. 
  
  The five games: Half Life 2, Episode 1, Episode 2, Portal, Team Fortress 2. The Half life series unsurprisingly 
 shadows the other two but they are still nothing to scoff at. Portal brings a puzzle game to life 
 with it's quick humor that'll draw even the puzzle hating gamers to play again and again. Team 
 Fortress Two, Let's just say that cartoon mutiplayer violence has never been so fun.
  
  To conclude The Orange Box is a marvel to any gamer, however minor glitches do appear, but it does 
 not affect the overall smooth gameplay and promises hours and hours of entertainment to the tight 
 budgeted and normal gamers alike. It is a groundbreaking title that will always be known in gaming 
 history as the most 'colorful' game ever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: redalert2004
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 21, 2008 11:07 am PT
Review:  So i bought this game last week and a have to say that i am very pleased with it. It only cost 
 me 30EUR wich is very good for so muth content.
  
  Half Life 2 - I have already played this for the PC back in 2006 and it was great. Now for the 
 PS3 i am plying it again in the hard dificulty and i am having a great time with it, the graphics 
 are good the enemy AI is great and the story is amazing.
  
  Episode 1 and 2 - This are the two expancion packs for HL2 that came in The orange Box, you can 
 play them in any order so you dont need to complete HL2 to play any of this episodes witch is good 
 for some people. I like booth the episodes, in episode 1 you will use your flash light allot and 
 fight lots of Zombies. In episode 2 i have to say that you will notice some Graphics improvment 
 and the gameplay is much more action orientated.
  
  Portal - Havent played this very much but is a good game with very original concept and inteligent 
 puzzles.
  
  Team Fortress 2 - This is the multiplayer part of the Orange Box. It is a great experiance with 
 good game mechanics and nice cartoonish graphics. You will play this for Hours and Hours.
  
  Closing comments - The orange box is a great deal packing 5 games all of them with great valor. 
 The frame rates in the HL2 are OK nothing so bad that can make you quit the game, the last patch 
 helped a bit. Now a big problem is that TF2 is not getting any updates... i cant understand this 
 but whateva... maybe some day we will get the new maps and weapons. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: khrikku2002
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 11:12 am PT
Review:  the orange box was not my original fps game experiense but i sure wish it was. this game i bought 
 it becouse i thought it was a good buy, 5 titles in one who wouldnt? but as i started to play it 
 became aparent that it is also an awsome game that i as a ps3 owner knew that it is a must have 
 for any gammer that is interested in having endless hours of fun. portal is the new commer to the 
 hits valve has created, it is a fun and funny puzzle experiense that keept me saying wtf but it 
 in its own was an awsome game that even on its own i would have bought. next is team fortress 2 
 this is the online experience that is extremely cartoony but none the less fun with its blood and 
 gore over 8 difrent stages and allowing you to play as several types of characters (i belive its 
 9) it keeps you continously playing none stop. and finaly the half life 2 franchise which like 
 the box says "the most complete half-life 2 collection to date" including both the half-life 2 
 episodes and the original half life 2 game which all of them are awsome. this truely is a great 
 buy for any gammer that is willing to lose sleep. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: StagedoorPiano
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 20, 2008 6:16 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box, published by Valve, is an amazing piece of gaming achievement. For $50, you get 
 Half Life 2, Half Life 2: Episode 1, Half Life 2: Episode 2, Portal, and Team Fortress Two. (For 
 those of you who failed Algebra, that's $10 per game!) I'll start with the beginning.
  
  Half Life 2. What else is there to say that hasn't already been said about it. It's a gaming masterpiece, 
 a milestone. My only complaint is that it's the only game in the Orange Box without commentary 
 from the dev team. Come on, they couldn't add that in?
  
  Half Life 2: Episodes 1 + 2. A good choice to add in the 2 older games in addition to HL2: Ep2. 
 I had a lot of fun playing through the old games. My only complaint with Half Life 2: Episode 2 
 is the completely pointless Antlion caves section. I did not like being that cooped up, and not 
 knowing where I'm going. Or being able to kill the Antlion Guardian. HOWEVER, they did make up 
 for that by taking us outside very fast and having some very epic moments outside. No spoilers, 
 for those of you who haven't played the game!
  
  Portal. Portal is a new game which started out as a college project, and was picked up by Valve. 
 But you cannot tell it here. Portal is definitely up there with Half Life 2 as a great game in 
 the Box. In Portal, you are Chell. She wakes up in a "Relaxation Pod" with a computerized voice 
 talking to her. That's GLaDOS, the best character I have ever heard in a video game! The dry humor 
 in this game is defiantly top notch. I laughed out loud at some parts! Eventually, you acquire 
 the fully functioning Portal Gun. This allows you to shoot Portals onto the walls, one orange, 
 one blue. You can walk between these two Portals. And the gameplay takes amazing advantage of that. 
 The puzzles in the later half of the game are immensely challenge. Kudos to Valve on the game, 
 and can't wait for Portal 2. 
  
  Finally, Team Fortress 2. TF Original was a mod for the original Half Life. Valve announced a sequel, 
 then it dropped off the map for 11 years. When it came back, it was a very cartoonish take on a 
 multiplayer online shooter. But that is not a problem! It just makes the combat better. There are 
 many different kinds of levels. 2Fort, which is the only CTF map for it. There's also Control Point 
 capturing with all the others. You can be anything in the game from a Sniper (Australian!) to a 
 Pyro (Flamethrower = Main Weapon) to a Heavy (Russian, with a HUGE-ASS Minigun!) ! The characters 
 are all funny in their own right, and they also play very well. Each has very distinct strengths 
 and weaknesses. Such as the Heavy, who has 600 bullets in his machine-gun like Minigun (named Sasha) , 
 but he's very slow. A good team up with that is the Medic with his MediGun, to heal him as he walks. 
 There are so many endless strategies and ways to play that it has unlimited replay value and is 
 still fun today!
  
  All in All, the Orange Box is an amazing find! Go pick it up now in your local store, or you are 
 not a gamer. My only complaint with Valve: No HL2: Ep3 on PS3???? But that's for another day. Now, 
 I'm gonna go play some more Team Fortress 2! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mezzo20
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 19, 2008 8:37 pm PT
Review:  The other reader reviews are ridiculous, they're complaining about the value of this game when 
 you get 5 excellent products. Even with the new products alone (ep2, tf2 and portal) , $60 would 
 have been about right in comparison to other games. Moaning about the inclusion of one of the greatest 
 games of all time (hl2) and its expansion is a bizarre arguement, considering console owners haven't 
 really seen a good version of half life 2. These should be seen as a bonus rather than an attempt 
 to cash in on old products, comparing hl2 to re-releasing mario bros on disc is the dumbest arguement 
 i have heard in a while. You clearly can't please some people!! the game is truly revoulution in 
 gaming a must buy fo any game lover not matter on ps3 or xbox. ant playing online with the time 
 fortress i plain fun u can spend hours and hours playing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TRoN_HKD
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 17, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes 
 it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth 
 it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal 
 makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it 
 all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth 
 it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal 
 makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it 
 all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth it. Portal makes it all worth 
 it. Portal makes it all worth it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: THE_BRUTALIZER
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 14, 2008 10:24 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is simply an amazing value. Each and every game handles well, yet goes in a different 
 direction from mainstream gaming. If you like Call of Duty 4, it will take some time getting used 
 to this style. It aint no tactical shooter with a few guns..... this is a giant puzzle with simply 
 hilarious gameplay, not to mention the KILLER first person shooting experiences. The story is easy 
 to grasp, and you will not want to stop. Beware though, this aint as easy as pointing and shooting. 
 Its a puzzle that will blow your brain at times.
  
  Ok.... apart from the half life series, it only gets better. Portal, a game that i have wanted but 
 never felt like spending money on, came in this pack. Portal is even funnier, with great dialouge 
 and a gameplay that I promise you have never experienced before. I seriously did not expect it 
 to be soo addicting. All you need is one gun that shoots two different portals to solve the puzzles.... one 
 portal you enter, one you exit. Simple. Right? No. This game is hard. But its still great. 
  
  And now, Team Fortress 2... you GOTTA love it. No ranks, no 6 year old kids, NO STRESS. Just 
 a good old fashioned shoot out with a couple of twists. You have three class types.... Offense, 
 Defense, and Support. You will easily find what suits you after a game or two. 
  
  BUY THIS PACK THIS IS A ONCE IN A LIFETIME CHANCE FOR PS3 PLAYERS THERE IS NOTHING ELSE LIKE IT. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: biscuits3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 7, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box happens to be one of the greatest values in video game history. Released last year 
 for the 360, PC, and PS3, a lot of criticism has been leveled against the PS3 version of TOB, mainly 
 citing its frame rate as the sole problem. A patch was released a while back that fixed basically 
 all of these problems, and to be honest I've only ever really encountered one instance of slowdown, 
 and that was in an isolated incident in Episode One, and even this didn't cause a major act of 
 concern. Let me break down the games.
  
  Half Life 2: Simply put, the greatest follow-up to one of the greatest first person shooters of 
 all time. Released in 2004, the graphics still hold up today, and the voice acting and facial animations 
 are all top-notch. The gameplay is admittedly a little uneven, with some vehicle sections going 
 on a tad too long, but that's easy to over look. Besides the somewhat odd pacing, Half Life 2 is 
 a brilliant game and TOB may very well be the first chance PS3 owners have of playing this game.
 
  
  Half Life 2 Episode One: Picking up immediately where Half Life 2 left off, Episode One relies 
 on getting out of City 17, though as opposed to most of Half Life 2, you spend most of the time 
 with an AI-controlled partner, Alyx Vance. Alyx is a great character, and unlike most games she 
 can actually hold her own in a fire fight. The only real complaint I have with Episode One is that 
 there is one jarring frame rate problem early on, as well as the fact that the game can be beaten 
 in under 5 hours. But oh well, it's more Half Life, and that's great.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode Two: This game picks up after Episode One, except this time you don't have 
 Alyx with you the entire game. This game happens to be one of the most story heavy editions to 
 the Half Life 2 canon, which is great because the story and characters really come into their own. 
 Couple the story with some great vehicle and set piece battles, and a surprisingly emotional ending, 
 and this game is a winner all around. I'd also like to note that I didn't notice any frame rate 
 issues here.
  
  Portal: Different from anything else on the disk, Portal is an amusing and thought-provoking ride 
 through the Aperture Science Lab testing facility. The game is a puzzle game in first person, and 
 you may find yourself pleasantly addicted in your quest for cake.
  
  Team Fortress 2: The multiplayer of TOB can both be fun and disappointing. If you take the time 
 to get into the game, you'll find yourself addicted to it's class-based team dynamic. Just don't 
 expect any deep leveling up or anything such as the likes of COD4. Still worth a shot.
  
  In conclusion, The Orange Box for the Playstation 3 is one of the best values in video game history. 
 You've got at least 30 hours or so in just the Half Life 2 sections, and between Portal and Team 
 Fortress 2, you're bound to find something you'll like. The game is great, and with a $30 price 
 tag, The Orange Box will undoubtedly make all the rest of your games green with envy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 3, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  In The Orange Box, there is a selection of games, and i'm only going to review it as a whole...
 
  
  First off the storylines, there a superbly written with great voice acting and graphics that makes 
 it look good. Although the graphics are a bit cheap, they are good and voice acting is superb, 
 with funnyness and wit all in one. A short review this time, as it's a exclusive for another Gamespot 
 member, but i hope everyone else likes it to. Other then that little flaw, each of these games 
 offers something that is similar to other games but each is perfectly well-done and you really 
 do get a bargain for 5 games for the price of 2 maybe. Really good bargain!
  
  The box art makes the game unapealing, but's it's not, a really fun game for any gamer. Alot of 
 levels, good games and large locations with amazing graphics, all i can say, bloody brilliant!
 
  
  8.5/10.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PlaystFreak
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 2, 2009 6:23 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2 series (Half Life 2; Half Life 2: Episode One; Half Life 2: Episode Two) - Great games 
 with amzing graphics and a great story. they are all very long and will last you many hours. Those 
 hours will be pure fun. it starts out a little slow but gets really good really quick after that. 
 
  
  Half Life 2: Portal- A great game with some great puzzles. it is a funny game with lots of beautiful 
 and believable surroundings. The only thing is it is really short and not enough weapons or enemies. 
 
  
  Team Fortress 2- A great game with many well thought out characters, weapons, and settings. I do 
 wish this game had a good story. I also wished that this game had a good level up system.
  
  Overall this collection is great. Also, i have been hearing complaints about the controls being 
 the same in all of the games and that they are bad. If you go into the options menu for any of 
 the games you can change the controls for that particular game. I have also heard that the framerates 
 are bad for this game but I have played all 3 versions of this game but I have not had a problem 
 with any of the versions. That's about all I have to say. Now go out, buy it, and have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SPYDER0416
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 28, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  When I played the first Half-Life, I didn't expect it to be as good as everyone said it was. I 
 was worn. Flash forward to November 22004, Half-Life 2 comes out. It was (and still is) one of 
 the greatest games of all time.
  
  Now, The Orange Box comes out and provides players with a chance to experience Half-Life 2 as well 
 as episodes 1 and 2 with Portal and Team Fortress thrown in for good measure.
  
  The game is absolutely astounding. The graphics are still some of the best graphics in any game, 
 with the next gen graphics allowing it to be played on consoles. The game also sounds amazing, 
 with bullet shells clinking on the ground, the poof of a new portal being created, or the superior 
 voice acting and techno-punk style music giving it a uniqueness that is unmatched.
  
  The game itself is exceptionally great as well. The physics based puzzles are fun to solve (especially 
 in Portal) , and even better once you are given control of the gravity gun. There are usually a 
 few ways through a given situation, making the game feel more free than most first person shooters. 
 
  
  The Orange Box also contains hours upon hours of gameplay, making it a bargain with it's seperate 
 games allowing you to exit one and play another without having to switch disks. The online play 
 in Team Fortress 2 is also amazing, with different classes allowing for a perfect team experience.
 
  
  Unfortunately, the game also has a few problems (more so on the PS3 version) . The graphics are 
 better than last gen, but relatively average by todays standards, wiith a few blemishes present 
 in certain areas. The Half-Life games do a good job of presenting itself and TF2's visual style 
 is very unique, Portal seems to be the least graphically enhanced of all the games though. Lag 
 does show up at times, (although this has mostly been fixed by now) especially in Team Fortress 
 2 and whenever large amounts of action are happening in the Half-Life games. Team Fortress 2 also 
 seems a bit misplaced here, with Counter Strike and Half-Life deathmatch providing a more realistic 
 gameplay experience on par with the games presented, as well as the fact that its the only game 
 to have no bearing in the Half-Life universe.
  
  Don't let any of these complaints prevent you from playing one of the most revolutionary game series 
 in FPS history. The story is great, and never skips a beat with everything in Half-Life 2 and it's 
 expansions presented through the eyes of Physicist Gordon Freeman and never skipping a moment since 
 the first game. Portal is very funny, especially with GLADoS guiding you, making it one of the 
 funniest games in recent memory. By the time you're finished with the game, every character you 
 have met in the game will seem as if they could exist in real life, and you'll probably replay 
 the game soon after beating it as it would be impossible to absorb everything the first time through. 
 In fact, if I had to recommend any game for your PS3 or X-Box 360, I would recommend this. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DemBoys46290
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 27, 2008 7:08 pm PT
Review:  cant ask for a better game i mean it 4 in one you get all the half life games which are excellent 
 fps games and u get them all. these games are a have nice levels and a good story to go with them 
 and good online play. then theres team fortress which is an online team game that you can pick 
 from 4 different character styles the game is ok kinda fun it pretty much grows on you after awhile. 
 then there is portals which i think is an awesome game. its innovative and gets you think about 
 how to get to the next area using only your portal guns some stages can be a little hard and getting 
 through the end stage to get to the boss can get a little confusing but i like a challange. the 
 end songis pretty funny and they released i for free on rock band. this is a most have for your 
 collection because you get so many great games for the price of one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dniq_gamespot
Rating: 5
Date: Jul 25, 2008 9:07 pm PT
Review:  Well, the game itself is awesome, as usual, with the exception it kinda sucks on PS3, mostly for 
 two reasons: 1) Framerate issues (what else's new?) , which sometimes make the game barely playable, 
 and 2) No surround sound, at least without HDMI, so if you, like myself and many others, are using 
 S/PDIF optical interface to connect PS3 to your receiver - you're stuck with Stereo sound. Funny 
 thing is, I thought PS3 has a hardware DD5.1 encoder, which converts whatever the game outputs 
 into an AC3 stream for your receiver, like XBOX-360 does. Apparently no, or Valve has been slacking, 
 when making the Orange Box for PS3.
  
  Anyway, if you really want to enjoy the game - you're better of picking up either PC or XBOX360 
 version.
  
  P. S. It also seems that the PS3 version of the game (or, rather, "games") works at a lower resolution, 
 but with the antialiasing enabled, so the image looks rather blurry. Also, there's no brightness 
 control in the PS3 version, which is rather odd, however not unusual: many PS3 titles don't have 
 the brightness control and instead suggest you fiddle with your TV controls.
  
  P. P. S. I wanted to give the score of 1 to the PS3 version of this game, but since the game itself 
 is great regardless, I'll rate it 5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tudyniuz
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 8, 2008 4:41 am PT
Review:  This is an incredible package.
  Five great games: Half Life, Half Life Episode One, Half Life Episode Two, Team Fortress, Portal.
 
  Half Life
  Half LIfe 2 is worthy of it's name. It stands up to it's predecessor and does feel like the original 
 game. It has many improvements over the original game but it isn't as revolutianary as it's predecessor. It 
 is a great game which deserves all the hype around it.
  To start of the story is very solid and you feel the same freedom as you felt in the original game. The 
 original Half Life is still considered to be one of the best games of all time. Half Life 2 isn't 
 that far but it lives up to it's name.
  Even if you may still find it odd that Gordon still doesn't talk throughout the whole game but 
 even without his voice the voice acting in the game is very solid and the character animation and 
 the expressions on the characters faces is quite astonishing.
  The gameplay remains sort of the same. All the Half Life fans will feel very familiar to the controls 
 even if they are a little different, but not much.
  The graphics look good for the year 2004, even if they are not the most amazing but they do seem 
 to fit the game. Everything looks as you expected from a second Half Life.
  This game is a must have for all who played the original game. For the rest it's a pretty good game 
 and you will get about 15 hours out of it, maybe even more.
  The other two Half Life games are even better as you will also see many additions and even slight 
 graphic improval. And they are incredibly good and are worth playing.
  
  Team Fortress 2
  Team Fortress 2 is a multiplayer game. So for those who don't usually play games over the internet 
 or via LAN, this is not a game for you.
  The game has quite a nice feel to it. The game looks pretty good eventhough the textures could have 
 been done more carefully. The sound effects are great and all the guns sound very real and make 
 you feel sometimes as you were a part of the real action. But the game has a very cartoonish look. Everything 
 looks like in cartoons. The guns, the characters and even the explosions. I would say that the perfect 
 comparison to a cartoon would be with The Mask. The characters look just like in those cartoons 
 eventhough the game has nothing to do with those animated series (as far as I know) . It all depends 
 of your first reaction to the game. If you like it you like it, if you don't then you don't. As the 
 other great title from Valve, Portal, this game doesn't really take itself seriously at all. You will 
 have this sensation after playing it for the first time. This game is pure fun and that's probably 
 the most important value of a game. It has to be fun.
  A downside of the game is the lag and the framerate which drops sometimes during online play. The 
 game alsoo freezes sometimes as well. This is a big problem and untill now Valve hasn't done anything 
 to repair this problem.
  I would recommend this game to FPS fans and for those of them who just want to relax in something 
 a little more "relaxing". I could also say that this game is a pretty good game for beginners in 
 FPS's. This game is worth checkin out.
  
  Portal
  Portal is a unique game. It is something you have never seen before. It offers a unique feel in a 
 well designed and produced game.
  Portal is a puzzle game. It is distinguished by it's innovative camera and good graphics and hilarious 
 voice acting. The game uses the Source Engine which is also used in Half Life 2. So the graphics 
 look the same as in HL2 which is a good thing. One of the most important thing that makes Portal 
 a different game from what you are used to is the camera which is the same as in FPS games. In Portal 
 you will have to open portals so that you can open certain doors and move certain objects around 
 and changing their way. It is very difficult to describe this game.
  One of the best things in this game, besides it's great game play, is it's sound. The sound is brilliant. Even 
 though you will be listening to only one voice throughout the hole game the interpretation is great. Everything 
 is so funny. This is a game in which you will have fun. The only bad thing about it is it's lenght 
 which is about 4 hours. Of course you can play it over and over again if you want. I would recommend 
 this game to anyone who wants to play something unique and also want to take a break from all the 
 other games that they are playing, from the more serious game, from games which take themselves more 
 seriously. This is a must have for those who want to experience something unique.
  
  This package is a must have and you have to buy it. You won't regret it.
  
  My Score 9.6
  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dan171717
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 20, 2008 2:22 pm PT
Review:  so the orange box on ps3. picked it up yesterday for quite cheap and after reading about it thought 
 it would lag allot.. but no. it has yet to slow down once. it has froze once but hey nothings perfect. 
 i would have liked to have got it for pc but my pc wont run source 2007 : ( so igot it for ps3. 
 i have completed hl2 a few times on pc but i don't have ep1 ep2 porrtal and tf2. i will now split 
 up my reveiw onto the games.
  
  
  hl2: the biggest game in there. exelent graphics , gameplay, and unbeliveable (even though it is 
 based of it it kicks havok up the arse) physics
  
  its one of the best games ever made and still lives looks bloddy amazing today about 4 years after 
 it was relised.
  
  ep1: not as good as hl2 but still really really good. just carries on the story really
  
  ep2: adds 
 allot of new things like a even better graphics, new enimys, and a new friend (sort of...) 
  
  portal: a puzzle game where you have to make portals to solve puzlles set for you in test chambers 
 by an evil sounding computer. it is unfortunatly very short. then again short and sweet.
  
  tf2: an exelent game. the multiplayer component of the ob. i have tfc (team fortress classic) and 
 this game follows it quite closely. you have playable classes and you have do things like capture 
 poins, capture intelegence and stuff like that. it is verry verry good.
  
  overalli give it a 10. the first game i will ever give that score. the only thing they could have 
 done is added hl1 (and mabie op4 and bs) in there but still what more could you ask for. anyway 
 i have thouse anyway
  
  
  this reveiw isnt that good and all but i am tyred. yawn
  
  ps. i did happen to spot a glitch in portal. i jumped in the chamber lock lift and when the loading 
 screen went away i was stuck on the top of the lift. i still have the save (i think) and i willput 
 it on youtube sometime if i do.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Akatsuki398
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 16, 2008 6:49 am PT
Review:  Since it's developmentin 1998, Half Life has become a video game hit for fps fans, and so is Half 
 Life 2 and Counter-Strike, now VALV-E and EA put their technology together to add five games in 
 one box, and that was the Orange Box. The collection of franchises consist of Half Life 2, Episode 
 1, Episode 2, The Portal, and for some hardcore multiplayer, Team Fortress 2.
  
  The story of Half Life 2 shows that you're home planet has been overun by aliens after the Black 
 Mesa Incident. So you're city has been renamed City 17, that's a pretty sad name for an area after 
 being taken away. And not only the Aliens, Xin, it's the polluted resources that threaten mankind. And 
 you Gordon Freeeman join a resistance against an alien force, Combine. Wait, threatened humanity, Earth 
 overun by aliens, and a resistance against aliens, guys I want you to take a guess what that sounds 
 like. Anyways the graphics are decent for an '04 game, so that makes them visually brilliant, but 
 not among our technology today. Some of the enemies in the game are weird Police man, and Combine 
 aliens, but they're tougher than you think on normal. Since losing you're health is easy on such 
 a balanced difficulty, I suggest you work you're way from easy.
  The physics in the game are pretty cool to look at, such as when you lay cement bricks on a see-saw 
 plank being balanced on a long, white tube in order to lift you up.
  The weapons in the game include  pulse  
 launcher, and my personal favorite, the Gravity Gun. The power of the gun makes you move around objects 
 in air with your own will with physics. The Gravity Gun has always been everyones favorite, you'll 
 be playing with the baby for hours just to think of a good job these guys did to make this hot 
 stud.
  
  Now I'm moving on to The Portal. Their's no story what so ever in the game you just have to survive 
 through a set of puzzles in a training facility called Portal. You lay your hands on the great Portal 
 Gun that will open blue and orange holes, it was a crazy and fun experience just playing around 
 with this dog, but it finally got a little tiresome.
  The graphics are great for something that came out last year. There are very unique twists behind 
 the gun such as opening one portal on the ceiling and another on the floor, which will send you 
 to a never ending tunnel.
  There are however some mindbending puzzles you have to think through to progress with 19 levels, but 
 the game is eventually short but you unlock a challenge mode after beating the game.
  Your Portal Gun can not only open portals but can pick up objects without using your hands. The 
 Portal is a fun game and all but the story length is a little too short for an average.
  
  Want a good killing spree with all your other friends, well it's Team Fortress 2, the game that let's 
 kill, reload, chooose classes, taunt, capture intellegence or take enemy grounds. Team Fortress is a 
 pretty fun multiplayer but not so fun when I get online the first several minutes.
  You can choose between Offense classes: scout, soldier, pyro- Defense: demoman, heavy weapons guy, engineer 
 and- Support: medic, sniper, spy.
  You can play up to Capture The Flag and Control Point, the game types are fun and all but two really 
 isn't enough for a multiplayer game. If you're a spy you get to disable turrets, instant kill people 
 with your knive, cloak yourself for a short period of time, and disguise yourself as the enemy to 
 infiltrate your hostile base. But the disguises are more strange because you see yourself wearing 
 a paper face of one of the classes, so that makes the disguises less helpful. If your an engineer 
 however, you can build turrets to defend and do the killing for you. Heavy is nothing more but the 
 strongest class but slower as usual with his heavy fists, chaingun, and a normal shotgun. The chaingun 
 is somewhat of a pain to prepare and is much slower.
  You can go to Custom match, you can make the match long, short, or just an infinite timer, whatever 
 you want. So you characters can do all sorts of silly taunts but few are just plain annoying.
  Team Fortress 2 is fun and exciting but some things aren't exactly open.
  
  Orange Box is a 
 decent collection without buying any games, just get the game and you have five games in your own 
 hand.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kibrita
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 26, 2008 11:34 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box includes Half-Life 2, Half-life 2 episode 1, Half -Life 2 episode 2, Portal and 
 Team Fortress 2. All in one (sounds cool yeah) and it is very cool. It is so easy put, select and 
 play one of this five amazing first-person games.
  
   Half-life 2 is one of the best first-person shooters ever been made. Thrilling to the very end.
 
   Half-life 2 episode 1 is kind of short but still full of non stopping action.
   Half-life 2 episode 2 is much better than the 1 episode and nearly as good as the original Half-life 
 2.
   Portal is innovative and funny.
   Team Fortress 2 is a very good online multiplayer shooter.
  
  Five great first-person games 
 for the price of one. This can't be true!!!
  Oh, YES it is and it's packed in Orange Box.
  
  Enjoy your time with THE ORANGE BOX.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarkDante152
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 17, 2008 8:49 pm PT
Review:  First let me say that the orange box is a great deal for any gamer out their (well for people who 
 like fps games) . You get half-life 2, episode 1 and episode 2, along with portal and team fortress 
 2 (multi-player only these one is) . Half-life 2 and the episodes that come with the package, are 
 all great games with good graphics, game-play, a great story line, a nice selection of weapons 
 are available to you in half-life 2 (the following episodes don't really introduce any new weapons, 
 you just get the same weapons you found in the original half-life 2) . Portal is a game where you 
 solve puzzle after puzzle but the puzzles are well, great and really require you think about how 
 you're going to solve them (though this game won't appeal to everyone) . Team Fortress 2 is a great 
 multi-player experience with cartoon like graphics, a nice selection of classes available to you 
 and of a nice selection of weapons as well. However, in half-life 2 and the episodes that follow 
 it, the frame rate may slow down at points while your playing the game though. Other then that 
 little flaw, each of these games offers something that is similar to other games but each is exceptionally 
 well-done and you really do get the most bang out of your buck (if not more) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 8
Date: Jun 12, 2008 10:00 pm PT
Review:  Coming to an overall score for The Orange Box for PS3 is difficult. In terms of game content, everything 
 (bar the Achievements) is there. Half-Life 2 is still an excellent game, even if it does feel overly 
 long and a touch dated graphically. Episodes One and Two feel much more 'modern', faster-paced 
 and more attractive, but the compromises in the PS3 version are simply unforgivable; Episode Two 
 in particular is a savage testament of all that is wrong with cross-platform development - one 
 of the worst examples as yet of developers simply not bothering to properly make use of the hardware 
 available to them. Portal and Team Fortress are superb games, but the latter in particular emphasises 
 that even the less technically challenging environments found in The Orange Box lack the polish 
 found in the 360 game, and are lightyears away from the standards set by the original PC code.
 
  
  So, an 'eight' it is for PS3 Orange Box then, but with it, the stark reality that most of that 
 score is attributable to the superb quality of the core Valve games rather than the shoddy conversion 
 work which sees one game out of the five ruined, and another badly compromised. That being the 
 case, if you own a PC, even a relatively lightweight one, that version will almost certainly be 
 the better - and definitely cheaper - purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: adamVH1984
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 12, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a collection of five separate games, all of which are quite good, though a little 
 outdated now.
  
  Gameplay- Three of the games are half-life, episode one, and episode. I have to first honestly 
 say that I haven't completed all of them but from what i've played so far of them. They are quite 
 compelling. They are shooters that have a deep story and sifi element to them. The action is pretty 
 intense, and there's a lot to think about. The weapons are cool too, especially the gravity gun, 
 which allows you to throw any object using gravity. It is quite cool. Portal is another game in 
 the box. This is my favorite. It comes with nineteen puzzle levels. They are played with a gun 
 that allows you to shoot two holes in walls: one of them is an entrance hole and the other is an 
 exit hole for the portal. you can shoot these holes in ceilings even. This is cool because then 
 you can fall from the ceiling and do a lot of other fun things. It is relatively easy to figure 
 out and not too long, but they are all alot of fun. Team Fortress 2 is the final game. It is only 
 multiplayer but it has a unique feel to it and is worth a play. There are eight different classes 
 I believe and they are all really different. The action is fun and creative, and the graphics give 
 it a unique play as well.
  
  Graphics- The half life games have pretty good graphics but by now they are a little outdated though 
 not terrible. There are a few framerate issues in these. Portal looks basically the same as these 
 other games. Team Fortress 2 however looks gorgeous with a Pixar like graphic style. They are some 
 of my favorite graphics i've ever seen. There are quite a few framerate issues however.
  
  Sound-The sound is your typical array of decent voice work and scores with the exception of team 
 fortress 2. The music is different depending on which team you're on and it has a distinct 50s 
 feel. The same is to be said with the voice work in this.
  
  Value-With five games in one, you are simply not going to get a better value than this.
  
  
 I would recommend getting this because of it's value. It will keep you entertained for quite a 
 while, though not too many people are on team fortress 2 anymore. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Namaru94
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 11, 2008 3:34 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box
  
  This is a great collection of games, including Portal, Half Life 2, Half Life Episode 1, Half Life 
 episode 2, and Team Fortress 2. 
  
  Team Fortress 2: A great multiplayer game, which a great sense of humor. This in my opinion, is 
 the best game out of the collection, mostly because of it's online features and gamplay is so fun. 
 This is definately a big reason why people should get this game.
  
  Half Life 2: Good game with a great storyline, fun gameplay, and Gordan Freeman. What else could 
 you ask for? This game is definately worth playing through.
  
  Half Life Episode 1: Fun game, just like it's other games. This game also has a great story line, 
 leaving off where Half Life 2 ended.
  
  Half Life Episode 2: Fun game as well, leaving off where Half Life Episode 1 left off, and makes 
 you want to get to the end more and more.
  
  Portal: A very fun strategy game... nuff said. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danyalhk
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 3, 2008 5:33 am PT
Review:  I think that Gamespot should also update their reviews after patches have been released for the 
 games. So my review is an updated review of an updated game.
  
  Orange Box consists of five great games produced by Valve in Half Life 2 series. Gamers can choose 
 to play any of them starting from Half life 2, half life 2 episode 1, half life 2 episode 2 and 
 two new games portal and team fortress 2. the first three are built on the great source engine 
 while the later have been built on new engine and they look spectacular. The PS3 version of Orange 
 Box suffered from choppy frame rates but EA released a patch from 1.0 to1.10 which addressed many 
 online gaming issues plus solving the frame rate problem much of it. And it serves very well, the 
 gameplay is very smooth and it is awesome to explore the beautiful sceneries and water effects. 
 The sotry would take you from the begining if you choose to play from and take you to the undecisive 
 end of episode 2, which would make you want more. you can play it to your heart's content , shoot 
 enemies, drive the super charged buggy and a car, man turrets, great weapons, everything is just 
 so great about it. there is no multiplayer in the halflife 2 games. for that you have to play team 
 fortress 2. 
  
  
  Team fortress 2 is a master piece, the graphics, sounds so brilliant, looks like a pixar movie, 
 there is alot oging on in it. but i didnt find it much open world in it, matches are still limited 
 and custom matches arent that much happening. It is fun to play but gets boring sometimes when 
 it lags. I wish valve could put more in it like vehicle action in multiplayer to make more of a 
 open world multiplayer game. i would have loved that.
  
  Portal is nice innovation, it really uses your brain. But still it is a tech demo not the full 
 game, although a great idea they should have put the full game on the large blue ray disc. i guess 
 they didnt want to use much space on it.
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Burnout_Avenged
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 31, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm lost. Where to begin on such a brilliant collection of games? Ok, let's start with Half-Life 
 2. Half-Life 2 is an epic science fiction/ horror first person shooter which follows the path of 
 Gordon Freeman. Half-Life 2 first came out on PC, PlayStation 2 and Xbox a few years ago, but this 
 version has been re-mastered with better graphics and new lighting effects. People who have not 
 played the original Half-Life should not be tempted not to play this game because of ruining a 
 story. Half-Life 2 is completely different to the original, and I managed to understand the story 
 just fine, without playing its prequel. The game should last you about 10 hours to complete. Don't 
 be put off by a rather dull introduction. The game starts to get into proper action about an hour 
 in, so keep playing and give it a chance. I know plenty of people who have missed out on this game 
 because they were too lazy to get to the good bits.
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode One is the sequel to Half-Life 2. It picks up exactly after Half-Life 2, so 
 you will need to have played Half-Life 2 in order to understand what is going on. Yet again, this 
 game was brought out a few years ago, so the graphics have been improved. This section of the story 
 is rather short and should only take you about four hours to complete. 
  
  Half-Life 2: Episode Two is the latest part of the Half-Life 2 series. This game was brought out 
 fairly recently, so expect sharper visuals with crisper colours compared to the previous two instalments. 
 Half-Life 2: Episode Two is not as short as Episode One, but should only take about six hours to 
 complete.
  
  Portal is the quirky new puzzle game in the package. It revolves around you, the test subject- 
 Chell, in a mysterious "test". The aim of the game is to use Portals to get to your goal. Despite 
 being in very high quality, the game is very short and should only take you around three hours 
 to complete. 
  
  Team Fortress 2 is the multiplayer component to The Orange Box, and possibly the best part of it. 
 The class based game with fun cartoon visuals will keep you satisfied for hours. The unique game 
 play will have you sucked in in no time at all. 
  
  The Orange Box is not without its down sides though. Long loading times and not being able to play 
 the game in 1080p like the Xbox 360 version can be a problem, but overall, it is without doubt, 
 one of the best games of all time.
  
  Gameplay- 9
  Graphics- 8
  Sound- 9
  Value- 9
  Tilt- 9
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: rock4563
Rating: 10
Date: May 27, 2008 8:27 pm PT
Review:  TF2 is about my second favorite game, although portal and the half life series arent as good as 
 it they're still great! Hey they're Five games for the price of one, how could you ask for much 
 more? Half Life 2, Half life 2: Episode 1, Half Life 2: episode 2 along with portal may not be 
 as great but they sure are fun! The Orange Box might be one of the greatest games to come along 
 in years. You save alot, and get great games, Half life's series is really fun, portal is very 
 puzzeling, TF2 has a bit too much comedy though (still my favorite in the orange box!) . TF2 ould 
 be a little more funny if it had less comedy. It'd be kinda fun if there were a bit more classes 
 (like 3 or so) . Really fun game a mustgate for FPS fans! Try its sometime you may enjoy it!! Rent 
 it! lol... enjoy an awesome shooter i bet you'll love it!!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: designedfailure
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 22, 2008 10:37 pm PT
Review:  Having not played the Half Life games for a some time, I kind of forgot how good they are. The 
 story and experience in the series is unmatched by most games in the genre. The thing about The 
 Orange Box is, well, the Half Life games are just a fraction of the greatness provided in this 
 outstanding set. For those who haven't played any Half Life and are afraid that they won't enjoy 
 it, they need not worry, for Portal and Team Fortress 2 are incredible. I honestly would have spent 
 the money just for those two. 
  
  Portal turned out to be one of the most enjoyable games I've played since getting my PS3. It is 
 a very simple game to understand and the dialog in the game is very entertaining. The great thing 
 about The Orange Box, is that all five games have the same controls, which means you can jump from 
 game to game without having to think about which buttons do what. Portal isn't very long, but there 
 are times that you will definitely we sitting there, looking for the answer to the puzzle.
  
  My favorite game of all though, is Team Fortress 2. Many people don't remember the original, 
 and in all truth, there isn't a whole lot of similarity between the two-pretty much that they are 
 both really fun. Being an entirely online experience, I was skeptical about how deep the gameplay 
 would be and whether there would be any substance to the game. Needless to say, TF2 rewards players 
 with fantastic gameplay and honestly some of the most fun I've had in ages. The look of the game 
 is cartoonish and that, in turn, gives the game a kind of off-beat and fresh feel. A lot of people 
 love COD4 online and how it makes you use strategy, but c'mon, is there anything better than a 
 bunch of cartoon killing machines running around and shooting at each other? Nope.
  
  The Orange Box is absolutely something that should be in your collection, as it will provide countless 
 hours of entertainment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: brandorock
Rating: 8.5
Date: May 17, 2008 11:54 am PT
Review:  As you may know, this game is actually a collection of five separate games that are all kind of 
 related: Half-Life 2 (very, very fun!) , Half-Life 2: Episode One, Half-Life 2: Episode Two, Team 
 Fortress 2, and Portal. Each one has an interesting story.
  
  If you like shooting zombies and/or monsters, or even if you just like blowing things up, this 
 game is probably for you. The weapons you receive in each game are pretty cool. For example, the 
 first weapon you receive in Half-Life 2 is a crowbar, which is actually very useful. Then, you 
 pick up some nice guns along the way.
  
  I bought this game from MicroCenter for $60, and it was well worth it! After all, you're getting 
 five really good games that are only slightly old for the price of a new PS3 game. I highly recommend 
 this to anyone, and the M-rated contents in the game aren't too strong. The blood and gore isn't 
 even that realistic in my opinion, and the characters do not use foul language too often. These 
 elements can be easily ignored when you focus on the fun and games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donnyp
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 29, 2008 11:52 am PT
Review:  Now i may not be a meta Phycisist but i am a gamer. And what i do is play these games well. Love 
 poor grammar cause im full of it. Now this is my Official First PS3 review to the fact that i now 
 own one. I have 2 more games to review. Now to the review.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Story:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  The Game starts with G-Man putting you on a train going to sector 17. Its basically 
 a militia run city. You start out just walking around learning how to pick up objects and use them. 
 Once you get used to physics in this world you make your way to a checkpoint. At this point your 
 called into a back hallway room and you have a Reunion with old friends. From there your running 
 from Combine Patrol and Fighting them. The Story has more then you'd expect in a first person shooter 
 and has a human ellement to it with the way certain people get agitated at others responses. For 
 this awesome story i give it a 10/10.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Controls:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  The game controls Extremely well. As you come upon more items and objects the game teaches you 
 how to use em and what they can do. And since i played this game on the PS3 console it wasn't a 
 big leep from ps2 control. Infact its the same controller. With its easy to use controls and quick 
 response time to the controls im gonna have to give this another 10/10.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Sound:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  Now the music is techno like and the sounds are well done. Each gun 
 has its own distinct sound be it the shotguns loud booming shot or the Pulse machine gun or whatever 
 its called has a very bass filled sound when shooting. The smaller machine gun doesn't have as 
 much bass but has a nice mix between treble and bass. The sounds of the enemies dieing and grenades 
 bouncing are nice addidtions to the detail of the game. With little details like this the sound 
 earns another deserving 10/10. Oooo maybe it'll be a perfectly rated game?
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Fun Factor:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  The Game is an alround fun game. When using the Gravity gun to 
 throw saw blades and benches at headcrab zombies. Or when using the crossbow to fire Heated Rebar 
 to nail an enemy to the wall. The one problem that makes the fun factor drop down a single notch 
 is the dificulty curve. Sometimes its as easy as putting cinder blocks on the edge of a plank of 
 wood to balance its wieght so you can jump across. to taking down 6 enemoes each one taking 7 rockets 
 to kill and they kill you in 1 hit if your to close. But because of this Wonderful balance im going 
 to give it a 8/10. Nope not perfect... but so close.
  
  Now instead of closing notes like I normaly do im going to tell you about Portal. Oh wonderful 
 portal how i love you in all your splendor. Portal is a little puzzle game the developers made 
 to test out a new game mechanic. Its a short quick game with plenty of humor and an awesome song 
 at the end. For this ones fun factor Sounds Controls and story which remarkably it has a plenty 
 amount of for a 2 hour game. I'm Giving Portal a 10/10. Thats right. Portal is perfect and if you 
 don't like it your not.
  
  Oh and team fortress is fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: michael_ps3
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 28, 2008 9:20 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 comes back from 2004 even more revolutionary as it is accompanied with its other 2 
 awesome games (episode1 and 2) . And to make it even better, it comes with two other great games (the 
 puzzle mind game portal and the multiplayer team fortress 2) . In episode 1 you continue your journey 
 with Dr. Freeman and Alyx, trying to get out of city 17 before its too late, as the citadel is about 
 to blow at any moment. In episode 2 you manage to survive the blow and move out of city 17 deep 
 into the white forest. New enemies like the ultimate hunter (hunters are a small version of striders 
 but even faster) and others promise you to kick some serious ass!! Perhaps the best in all series 
 .
  Portal is the kind of game that takes some patience and strategy to play. You play as an android 
 which is used as an experiment where it must pass through levels of difficult obstacles. Finally, 
 team fortress 2 is just the right game, if you want to play LAN or internet with your friends. 
 Plenty of weapons and characters promise you only the best multi player game. Generally a game 
 that is owned to be have!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 23, 2008 4:44 am PT
Review:  Well I would just like to say I have never played a Half Life game before this one and I was eagerly 
 anticipated this game. Now I will say that the game just started off ok but as I progressed I found 
 it to be uniteresting and couldn't wait for the next big thing to happen. ALOT of waiting I did. 
 
  
  First I will start with Hallf and the Episodes. I thought the story was okay but I just felt it 
 just dragged on for no reason. I would get to a certain point then somehow with the way the plot 
 was set I would eventually be split from the main characaters. I would be sent on long journeys 
 that I thought were just to long and felt like I was doing them with no purpoe. The weapons are 
 average at best and the gravity gun just didn't do anything for me. I felt it was pretty weak and 
 just there just to be there. I thought the game was pretty boring until Episode 2. It got heated 
 about half way thru and the end was kinda epic, but other then that I felt this game just didn't 
 deliver. 
  
  Portal is a very neat title and should be tried by all. I thought Team Fortress 2 was something 
 new for FPS but it just couldn't keep me hooked. Overall this is alot of content here but I just 
 feel like I wasted alot of my time for a medicore title. This is just how I feel about the game 
 others may find this game classy sadly I am not one those people. 
  
  some points do feel uninteresting, but still ts worth the cash.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: smithsmith07
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 22, 2008 8:40 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is a game that is taking first person shooters to a new level. With the complete 
 series of Half Life as well as two completely original first person shooters, this game is something 
 of a treasure chest of value. Many games offer subtle action and quasi immersive first person action, 
 and yet still throw on a 60 dollar price tag. Weve been fooled before but this one is no joke. 
 Im still not even past the second half life game and ive had it for over 2 months. Now granted 
 i have been playing other solid games like COD4 and Oblivion during this same time, The Orange 
 Box is up there with my favorites. The level of detail of the environments as well as the connection 
 the player feels with the world he is trying to save is undeniable. Its amazing how they can take 
 such an old game like Half Life 2, polish it up to next gen levels and then create such a treasure 
 trove of gamer action. I highly recommend this game to anyone who has been let down by the extremely 
 short campaign modes of games like COD4 and others much like it. This game will keep you occupied 
 for endless hours as you explore the 1984 style future of the human race. All in all if you havent 
 purchased this game yet, save up your skrill cause its worth every last penny. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: WereAllCritics
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 16, 2008 7:38 pm PT
Review:  I'm sure that I am among the many gamers who don't have a computer with the power to play this 
 game or an Xbox 360. Fortunately, I do have a PS3, and I can safely say that any concerns you may 
 have about the quality of this game compared to that of other formats are minor at worst. I'm sure 
 by this point you've heard of the 5 games in 1 $60 package that the Orange Box provides. I'd never 
 played a Valve game before and I must admit that I thought the titles they put out each year sounded 
 very boring to me. I was extremely suprised by how good each of these games turned out to be. 
 
  
  Allow me start with the media darling right now, Portal. Portal is a very good game, but in my 
 opinion it's the lowest value of all 5 games. Don't get me wrong, it's extremely entertaing and 
 it has an excellent game mechanic, but it is a brief adventure. Really breif. I'm talking about 
 5 hours at most and about 2 to 3 hours for those who are good at solving puzzles. This game's humor 
 is mostly hit or miss, but you would have to be insane not to enjoy the end-game song. A very good 
 game, but it's not even the second best game on the Orange Box.
  
  Team Fortress 2 makes no attempts to tell a story, but rather throws you in the middle of the 2nd 
 best shooter to come out this year. Balancing is excellent, the graphics are crisp and thanks to 
 a recent patch, online play is smooth as silk. Just plain fun, even if I wouldn't have minded slightly 
 more interesting maps, but now I'm just nitpicking. 
  
  Half-Life 2, for those of you who haven't played it, is an experience not to be missed. The levels 
 are linear, but perfectly designed and complemented with excellent set peices. I can't stress enough 
 how well designed the levels of this game are, it really will amaze you. The story is strong and 
 the action is stronger. It might seem boring from afar, but it is truly an exhilirating game. Just 
 make it to Ravenholm, then you'll understand exactly what I'm talking about.
  
  This games got it's fair share of bugs, however, especially the loading times in half-life and 
 portal. Don't let that scare you, any performance issues are totally worth it, this game is simply 
 the best value on the PS3, rivaled only by The Elder Scrolls: Oblivion. Do yourself a favor, buy 
 this game and you won't feel a need to play anything else for months. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mrpear
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 15, 2008 1:33 pm PT
Review:  I'll keep this short and sweet, simple and organized...
  
  HL2:
  Great game play, immersive story, clean and well tuned graphics. There's no questioning the quality 
 of this game... if it was 2005. Having played this game in fragments when it first came out, I 
 know how extremely advanced it is. But right now, with all the games that are out on next gen systems 
 and the PC itself such as Crysis, it's hard to cling onto the magnificent splendor that was so 
 easily awarded to it during its release. Nevertheless, if you've NEVER played HL2, now is the perfect 
 time in this bundle
  
  Episode 1 and 2:
  Same as HL2, the game play is slightly improved with ever so slightly tweaked visuals to guide 
 it along the once again great storyline. 
  
  Portal:
  Weird, twisted, addictive, and completely satisfying are the words I think of when describing this 
 game. Doesn't take much time to complete, but this game makes you think what newer and bigger ideas 
 the games of the future will have. Completely original thinking like this is what will keep the 
 gaming world fresh and intuitive.
  
  Team Fortress 2:
  Fast paced with many ways to play. The class system helps any new or experienced player jump in 
 and find the right person for them. Whether you want to defend with a minigun or sneak behind enemy 
 lines disguised as a spy, there's a person for everyone. Plenty of maps and with people always 
 online, it's long lasting fun.
  
  All this said, it's time for the bugs and problems...
  There were many hiccups while going through these games. The most annoying of which was the insane 
 amount of framerate slowdowns during HL2 and both episodes. Sometimes, the slowdown was so bad, 
 I couldn't reorient myself enough to save my own life, resulting in a sudden, unexpected and unavoidable 
 death. You would think that 2 years after the original release, a port to the PS3 would have this 
 problem inexistent. Another big problem was the consistent lag on TF2. It only happened on certain 
 maps and wouldn't last too long, but again, it was enough to annoy and get me killed plenty of 
 times. 
  
  All in all, this is a great value bundle. 5 games for the price of one and the reputation of being 
 one of the best series of all time in FPSs, but once again, the visual hiccups and lags are completely 
 inexcusable for a game's re-release 2 years later. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 23, 2008 11:44 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is quite simply one of the best games of 2007, This is why. It has something for 
 everyone. It has the FPS action in Half Life 2, The puzzler in Portal and the fast paced action 
 packed multiplayer in Team Fortress 2. Half Life doesn't need describing, its one of the best FPS, s 
 out there. Portal is when you solve problems and get to the exit using a portal gun, and Team Fortress 
 2 is a class based shooter with a huge sense of humour. Half Life looks very nice on PS3 and it 
 still has all the eye - poping moments such as the Chopper chase and the strider battle. But I 
 think by far that TF2 is the best. you can have a real laugh playing it and every class is great 
 to play as. Overall The Orange Box Is the perfect game for everyone. Its Innovation and variety 
 give it an edge over many over games out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JakBrown
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 10, 2008 2:47 am PT
Review:  If you never played a half life game like me up to the time of New Year you'll be surprised it 
 doesn't suck and the other games game play revolve around half life 2 in story in portal and just 
 game play in team fortress 2. Half Life 2 has got a star wars setting only no space. Aliens have 
 oppressed Earth and you're something like a rebel your Gordon Freeman the guy that released these 
 aliens into our world and you're going to stop them. The bad thing is that Half Life 2 Episode 1 
 & 2 aren't the concluding ends there will be the Episode 3 releasing sometime 2008-9. Now I move 
 onto Portal which is a funny problem solving game. You've been put into dangerous situations for 
 pie need I say more. You use you're portal gun to pass obstacles in the hopes to help science the 
 story collides with Half Life a little you'll see a computer saying Black Mesa which is the company 
 Gordon Freeman worked for but most people don't see that detail so much. Now Team Fortress 2 is 
 a great team based multiplayer game there are games like capture the flag or take control points. Now 
 one bad thing is that in portal and half life 2 you'll see a few load screens while you're playing 
 and they may take a while but generally the games are great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Agent_305
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 9, 2008 2:26 pm PT
Review:  Well, the term '5 games in 1' is slightly bending the law on false advertising... as it happens, 
 the O box includes Team Fortress 2, Portal, H-life2, H-life2: Episode1 and Episode2.
  Anyway, lets start with Half life...
  For those who herd of the first half life's success and 
 gave it a try bu found it boring, think again, H-life2 is amazing compared to it's predecessor 
 in every way, the gameplay, the visuals, the guns!! Plus the blood affects look awsome!
  Half like1....4/10
  Half life2....9/10
  Episodes 1 and 2 are little add-ons to half life 2, 
 both are half the length of the main game but follow on the story. Each come's with it's own cliff 
 hanger for fans of suspence!!!
  
  Next we have Portal!
  This is somthing of revalutinary when it comes to logical puzzlers.
  You play as........ somthing..... you 
 never really find out who/what you are but by the looks of things, a woman who looks like a man 
 with bent bits of plastic attached to her/his feet.
  Portal includes 11 chapters whith spans out across 19 'testchambers', each gets a bit more harder!
 
  Another pluss for this bonus is Comedy!!
  Throughout the portal experience, a dodgy robotic voice guides you through the testchambers. usually 
 it just gives you tips but every ow and again, the voice will come out with somthing REALLY random 
 for example..."Diid you know, you can donate your vital organ's to the enrichment centre girls 
 vollyball team" (the enrichment centre is the place where you're testing out the portal gun)
  Anyway, i realised i am yet to say anything about the actual gamplay sooo, you are given this prodotype 
 'portal' gun which fires a red and blue portal onto just about every surface. Portals are fired 
 using the L2 and R2 buttons.
  Your job, is to navagete your way through all the testchambers... and thats all the info your given!!
 
  The visuals are amazing and there isn't a single ounce of slow down when flying through the air 
 after shooting a portal into the floor, 200 feet below and a second on the above wall!!!
  Portal....7.5/10
  
  Unfortunatly i haven't played Team Fortress 2 since it's entirly for online 
 use ONLY!!
  But from what i have gathered, there are 2 teams and game options like deathmatches and capture 
 the flag. plus each team has about 10 playable 'classes'.... to play as, each with it's own different 
 powers or abilities.
  Heavy
  Mech
  Pyro
  Scout
  Medic
  Spy
  Soldier
  and Demo Guy are some of the playable characters, i think you can probably guess what tehy all 
 do.... and the scout just runs really fast and has a bat to hit people with!!
  I haven't played TF2 but from what i have head i would give it......8.5/10
  
  Overall, The 
 Orange box is amazing and you really do get your moneys worth!!
  A must have even if your just interested in 1 of the 5 games!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: trapper94
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 7, 2008 8:51 pm PT
Review:  The five games include Half life 2, Half life 2 episode 1, half life 2 episode 2, Portal, and Team 
 Fortress Two.
  
  The Half Life 2 series is really quit a project. You have many weapons and one that pick ups objects 
 and can launch them torwards your enemies. Some have a temoendous amount of fire power to just 
 fire at your enemies. The series is so amazing that if you own any of the three systems you must 
 check it out.
  
  Portal is a physics game where you have a portal gun which can shoot two portals and if you have 
 enough velocity you can go threw one and out the other. To make it short Portal is one of the best 
 puzles games ever made.
  
  Team fortress two is a great online multiplayer game. You have 9 to choose from. Which are Pyro, 
 Soilder, Scout, Engineer, Heavyweapons, Demo man, Spy, Medic, Sniper. Each one has a very special 
 and different trait and if you want to be succesful it helps if you have one of every class on 
 your team. TF2 isen't a photo realistic game but like alot of games it's not meant to be. It's 
 very addictive and will take you away from some of the best games out there.
  
  The Orange Box has something for everyone and you should definately pick it up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jz9999
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 7, 2008 7:44 pm PT
Review:  well i don't want to waste too much of your time but here i go... well i have recently got steam 
 and have noticed that this game is 5x better on 360 and pc! i own it for the ps3 and it really 
 is a drag with loading times and framerate, seeing the unfriendly atmosphere of playstation didn't 
 help it gives it a much more Whatever feeling that makes me sick. great game but dont buy it for 
 the ps3, horrible porting job, btw fortress forever (which is a mod of the source engine) is way 
 better than team fortress 2 and fortress forever is free when you would have to pay money for **** 
 half life and portal are kick ass though so give it a shot on the pc or xbox 360... its a no go 
 mofo on the ps3, sorry kids but gramps isnt gonna pull money out his wallet for this youngins. 
 well i will be writing a half life 2 review soon, and that is bound to get a better score than 
 this. 
  
  hope you enjoyed + don't leave a bad ranking because your a sony fanboy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dotXtreme
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  You won't get bored of this game ever so try it out, alright let's start the review:
  
  1. Half-Life 2
  It's almost as same as the original game or it's completely the same anyways 
 the game is still great and worth to play... the good parts of the game is that it got a great 
 graphic and kinda better than the old one which make it really great and besides the graphic it 
 got a great voice acting too which make it really really great great but there's no perfect game 
 cause this game still has the same old bad and weak storyline and it's pretty easy and not that 
 hard so yeah.
  
  2. Half-Life 2: Episode One
  A really great game (Half-Life 2 is better than it though) but it still make an awesome game, it 
 got a really awesome gameplay, team dynamic is really great which make it more fun and easier, 
 nice texts and some awesome great characters from the game, and again a great graphic/voice acting.
 
  
  3. Half-Life 2: Episode Two
  It's the kinda the same as "Half-Life 2: Episode One" same graphic, same voice, a little bit changing 
 in characters, but it still got the same great gameplay and some new features which make it a great 
 game either.
  
  4. Portal
  It's a new game created by a team of graduates from some school and it's still got a simaller gameplay 
 and if you go through one portal, you'll exit out of the other, You can (and will have to) use 
 this to your advantage in some test chambers to escape, errm, I mean "finish" the test chamber. 
 You'll have to be witty, readily able to manipulate gravity and the environment to get to new areas 
 and such.
  
  5. Team Fortress 2
  It's the multiplayer only edition, There is a unique, cartoon like art style of this game, and 
 9 classes this time around, ensuring that everyone will have at least one class they can relate 
 to, there aren't many maps but each one got many areas to explore and take over, everyone has one 
 taunt for each weapon or item, only adding to the awesome list of sounds, voices, and animations 
 you can use against others. It's pretty much just RED versus "BLU" on this game, and about 3 different 
 game modes, but it's all in great fun.
  
  
  That's all about the game, it's really worth it I mean if you got bored from one of them you can 
 try another, they are pretty short and easy but it still fun anyways so, yeah. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sour-tooth
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 5, 2008 5:34 am PT
Review:  When i heard that a game which will feature 5 games in 1 was going to come out, i thought it was 
 over $100 but over the days i realised it was only half the price!!! And it Half life 2, HF2 Ep 1, HF 
 Ep2, Team fortress and Portal. I was excited for half life 2 but i was pooping my pants for team 
 fortress 2. Now let me tell about the games. Half life 2 is the original HF2. Portal is a FPS\puzzle 
 game. HF Ep1 and Ep2 is expansions of HF2. Team Fortress 2 is a multiplayer\Fps (kinda like counter 
 strike with a bit of humour and character classes) . For the whole orange experience, it will take 
 about 20-40 hours to finish. Lets talk about gameplay...... all of them are FPS. Graphics are like 
 the kind which make you say "Is that real?". Sounds are awesome. The only flaw is the difficulty 
 its not extremely hard nor is it extremely easy, its just hard. I reccomend this game to online multiplayer 
 fans, Half life fans who's computer have crashed and puzzle gaming fans.
  
  
  FPS=First person Shooter 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ronniepage588
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:02 pm PT
Review:  dude, just playing the game to salivate at the graphics is good enough for me- the only previous 
 version of half life 2 i played was the xbox version- going from that to this is a huge treat. 
 every thing i look at i'm just like omg that looks amazing (since i have the much poorer version 
 to refer to) . 
  but in all seriousness, the half life 2 games are simply beautiful- better than call of duty 4 
 or gears of war/unreal tournament 3, because they looks so photorealistic and totally unique and 
 easily noticeable as a "half life game" all at once.
  
  yeah so this should definitely be one of, if not the first, games you buy- it is a must have. half 
 life and its continuations provide the most thrilling and engaging gameplay you'll ever find. portal 
 is totally original (dude, its fun just playing with the portals without completing the puzzle, 
 because theyre that freaking cool) and is a total brain tease- and i hope we get to see more use 
 out of the portal idea in the future, because its probably the best puzzle game i have played since 
 i dunno, monkeyball?! and team fortress provides a straight forward, super entertaining fun online 
 multiplayer experience- no its not COD4 or Halo, but its super fun and quirky, and provides cool 
 visuals and really neat unique gameplay- like my favorite- the disguising spy, its awesome!
  those guys at valve sure know what they're doing man- keep em coming guys!!!
  
  
  
  ps: 
 yeah i have the ps3 version- and the loads time are very irritatiing, otherwise this would have 
 gotten a 10! framerates are not nearly as noticable as gamespots review would lead you to believe. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goyolap
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 12:17 pm PT
Review:  It has been a long time since the original release the original half-life. When it came out it 
 receive numerous prizes of best game of the year and also best story. When I first play that game 
 I said wow this the best first person shooter of all time not only because of the intense action 
 is because the very complex story what make this game a must buy at its time. When the original 
 team for team fortress was release was consider the best online play but in my opinion second one 
 is better, the old concentrated on tactical shooter style and style that was implemented in the 
 second game works like charm. Still you need to you strategy but the large variety between spy 
 to sniper it has a lot to offer. The other two additions that the orange give are portal one of 
 the best puzzle game of all time and also the humor of this game show you the originality and effort 
 that was put two the game. The other half life episode two that is more intense that previous installment 
 episode and it is almost pair with half life 2. All this game is descended to be greatest hits 
 and the best first person shooter of all time. Warning the episode 2 part of the review it going 
 to spoiler of the end of this game.
  
  
  Half-life 2:
  
  Half life 2 was originally release 2004 was consider best sequel of the year. To some it was a 
 disappointment because of the story but thanks to the episode people stop thinking like. But still 
 they recognize as one of the best game of 2004. Winning round around 50 game of the year prize. 
 It has been 4 years since the original release and game still shine as the best of the best. The 
 shooting and intense action still shine as best to. The gravity gun gun in my opinion is the best 
 weapon created in any first person even compare to my favorite weapon that is Mk 22 use in metal 
 gear. The graphics are still great but is show a bit his of his age. The level design still top 
 notch the character model and facial expression are still amazing. In the PS3 version of half life 
 2 it suffer one time of the game of frame rate problem but it is on the being of the game and noticeable 
 hip cup in the explosive. Beside of that you shouldnt find no problem on the graphic department. 
 The story picks just where the first game was left in the train. You meet I few people back from 
 black mesa and a new character to some name Alyx. that is with you through the game. The story 
 develops from city 17 to rescuing the father of alyx. You will find your favorite friends the zombies 
 and new enemies. The story is base the opinions of the people and the oppression of the aliens 
 against them. The game action should keep every one playing and the story. Still after all of these 
 years still remains as one of the best game of all time.
  
  
  Half life episode 1:
  
  Half life episode starts right where you left it after the explosion of the teleport. The game 
 starts with a weird sequence that alias the g man s kind of nervous that comes to my attention 
 meaning still has some human inside of him. The story was created to explain the character development 
 in the psychological side. The game development is you and Alyx trying to escape from city 17 that 
 is going to explode. This is kind of disappointing because the real action and story starts after 
 playing 3 hours and the game it 6 to 7 hours long. That the only complain I find beside the lack 
 of new weapons but doesn't bother me at all. This sequel or expansion is great addition and adds 
 a little bit flair to the franchise.
  
  Half life episode 2:
  
  This game in my opinion is almost as great as half life one and two. With a few hours more it could 
 has been the best of the series but you can notice that valve want people to remember half life 
 1 and 2 as the base installment until half life 3 arrives. This game gameplay still the same as 
 all the half and deliver exactly the same quality that you demand from the game. This game is more 
 in expansive side is an open forest that you can explore and game feels better I like the feel 
 it took. In the story your trying to get White forest that is large resistance based. To get there 
 you have travel underground and in the forest until you get there. You need to get to white forest 
 to give to alyx father the data stop the transmission that was sent from city 17. At the the manage 
 to destroy the signal, but shortly after the alyx father was kill to me it was shocking sequence, 
 that it why the g man said to Alyx it going to be big consequences (I don't remember the exact 
 words) . In the end episode 2 deliver better story and shooting, better overall than is precedent 
 episode one.
  
  Portal:
  
  Portal is very original and complex game. The puzzles are top notch and have to use a lot common 
 sense that some gamers lack of it. The story that you are a person that is using as a test subject 
 through out the game you sees a person that is using the portal technology as same you. But you 
 don't realize that you are an android until latter on the game. The best part of the game is the 
 funny credit and hilarious computer that becomes the last boss fight. In the end Portal it one 
 best choices to play this year because of the smart puzzling, original portal technology and great 
 humor.
  
  Team fortress 2:
  
  This game is great sequel and it was better than the original. The only problem that there are 
 not many maps in the game but valves is making them and is discussing to make them free for home 
 console it up to Microsoft and Sony to decide. Apart form that you have a large variety of character 
 to choose form. My favorite class is engineer and spy but I don't tend to use spy because of its 
 complex style of work. The game is challenging and fun to play online; because of the large variety 
 of jobs the game never becomes boring online. It rare that a game is pure online never lost its 
 charm. The graphics are freaking awesome, the cartoon style and next gen graphics make them shine. 
 In the this game is the best online game out there on his on term.
  
  Pros: Everything, you have the best first person shooter of all time in one package what more you 
 can expect.
  
  Cons: some hip cup problem Half life 2, beside from that nothing more.
  
  Over all is the best experience I had in recent memory.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  Half life 2: episode one and two, Team Fortress 2, and Portal, what more do you want!?
  
  The Orange box is a wonderful collection of games and is bound too keep you entertained for weeks.
 
  The Orange box offers a series of games to choose from (these are listed above) , most of these 
 games have an intense storyline and include alot of violence.
  
  Half-life 2: Half-life 2 fills up three slots in the Orange box (three chapters of the game) ; it 
 follows the troubles of Gordon Freeman, the theoretical physicist and dimension-hopping commando 
 who saved the world from an alien invasion at the end of the original Half-Life. Half-Life 2 takes 
 place an untold number of years after the Black Mesa incident, but it's clear that much has changed. 
 You arrive in city 17 at the start of the game and it doesnt take long until you join the struggle 
 to defeat the combine and free humanity.
  
  Portal: Portal fills up one slot in the Orange box; Potal takes place in the experiment rooms of 
 Apeture science, you must solve a number of mind straining tasks with only a computerised voice 
 as your guide, as well as solving these tasks you also unravel the gripping storyline of the game.
 
  
  Team Fortress 2: Team Fortress 2 fills up one slot in the Orange box; Team Fortress 2 is a strictly 
 online game were the player can choose a number of maps, each map has its own gameplay, for example: 
 Capture the intelligence, capture the zones, etc... Team Fortress 2 is a cartoonish first person 
 shooter that'll have you addicted from the first play, there is a number of characters too choose 
 from, each with their own special weapons and abilities, for example: Spy - can disguise as an 
 opposing team member, backstab, cloak, etc... Engineer - Can build things (Turrents, dispensers, 
 etc..) , and wields a shotgun.
  
  Overall: The Orange Box is definitely a game worth getting for any Playstation 3 owner. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chainbladeONps3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 25, 2008 1:01 pm PT
Review:  but jeez its awesome
  guilty pleasure indeed when you think you would hate it
  and when did this come out??
  
  anyways the half life series 0-2 were miraculous
  they had 
 such a stunning story line as well as nice AI conversations
  
  graphics wernt the best but this is just another example of how great gameplay can surpass all 
 that
  
  portal was a mindtwisting puzzle game forcing you to make rash and quick witted decisions. it also 
 had a good story line and probably the best ending song ever....
  
  team fortress 2
  i could go on forever
  but in short term review-ness
  its an epic multiplayer fit for all multiplayers
 
  it can be a fast action shooter or a slow planned out assault on enemy lines
  you choose the character right for you (for me its likes 5)
  
  anyways best thing
  that well 
 has more then one game in it ever!!!
  i loved this game go buy it (dont think its to late)
  
  -fisk 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkblyth
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 21, 2008 10:42 am PT
Review:  5 games price of one thats good bargain but lets not talk about that lets talk gameplay. Ok lets 
 talk physics u played deus ex no realisic physics this game realistic. let me tell u some of the 
 storyline. At the start of the game, the G-Man speaks to Gordon Freeman as part of a hallucination-like 
 vision as he is pulled out of stasis and placed on a train. Gordon exits the train to find that 
 the world has been overtaken by an extradimensional military force known as the Combine. Gordon 
 meets up with Barney Calhoun and sets out for Doctor Isaac Kleiner's lab while being chased by 
 Combine Civil Protection, meeting Alyx Vance along the way. Once they've reached their destination, 
 Kleiner attempts to teleport them to Black Mesa East: though Alyx arrives successfully, Kleiner's 
 pet headcrab, Lamarr, damages the device when Gordon uses it. Gordon is briefly teleported to many 
 places, most notably Dr. Breen's office (twice) , who alerts the Combine to his reappearance. He 
 finally materializes just outside the window of Kleiner's lab. Barney instructs Gordon to take 
 the city's canals to get to Black Mesa East, where Alyx's father, Dr. Eli Vance, works. Right got 
 all that the gameplay good storyline great and music good now for PortalPortal's plot is revealed 
 to the player via audio messages from GLaDOS and side rooms found in the later levels. The game 
 begins with Chell waking up from a stasis bed and hearing instructions and warnings from GLaDOS 
 about the upcoming test experience. This part of the game involves distinct "test chambers" that, 
 in sequence, introduce players to the game's mechanics. GLaDOS's announcements serve not only to 
 instruct Chell and help her progress through the game, but also to create atmosphere and develop 
 the AI as a character. Sorry all i can do so but buy the game great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lo_Rising
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 7:22 am PT
Review:  I have never experienced the Half-Life games until now, and I dont know why they are held in such 
 high regard. This package is an absolute steal and if you are a fan of the series, this is a must 
 have in your collection. The controls are very wonky and leave something to be desired. The game 
 does have many faults but are very minor, mainly the load times and some slight hiccups with the 
 frame rate. The Half-Life games speak for themselves and have always been classics for fans of 
 the series but Portal and Team Fortress 2 in my opinion could have sold well on there own. Portal 
 is probably one of the most addicting games that I have ever played and a welcome breath of fresh 
 air. Team Fortress 2 has its share of problems though and I would have to consider this part of 
 the box the weakest. While I don't experience much of the lag most other gamers talk about, I am 
 disappointed at the lack of modes it has and it is very hard to get into a match. Nonetheless, 
 Team Fortress 2 is still a very fun game. Great value but it does have its share of problems that 
 take away from the fun. It has that I already played this game feel to it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 19, 2008 1:53 pm PT
Review:  If you didn't play HL2, this is a great bundle. For the price, it is hard to beat all the great 
 games that is packed in here. I have played HL2 and got it to see how Episode 2 is like, as well 
 as to check out Portal (not so much TF2) .
  
  For those of you who haven't read my HL2 Ep1 review, I felt that it was a different game with HL 
 carryovers. The setting is completely new and different, and for me this change wasn't so well 
 received. Regardless, it was a good game nonetheless. Episode 2 continues the Freeman chronicles 
 and really makes you use the gravity gun. It's fun, but I thought that at certain locations of 
 the game (mostly the beginning) , it was overused by force from the developers. Nothing like the 
 feeling of blasting enemies with a shotgun, compared to send fast shrapnel at them. You encounter 
 new enemies and the bond between Freeman and Alyx gets stronger, as well as new weapons. The introductions 
 of Dr. Magnason was annoying, the guy constantly berates those around him and generally is a downer. 
 There is a long climatic battle at the end, but it wasn't satisfying and I felt like the HL formula 
 is starting to get old.
  
  Portal is a game where you shoot walls with your portal gun, and once you walk through it, you 
 will come into either the same or another room. You can also shoot a wall and keep shooting and 
 running through them, and it can get very disorientating when you're not familiar with it. However 
 it is a great idea to be implemented in a game and will offer the curious gamer with hours of puzzle-solving 
 fun.
  
  Bottom line, if you haven't played or don't have HL2, this bundle will give you lots of bang for 
 your buck. But if you're played HL2 before or even bought Episode 1 (ie. for your PC) , you're better 
 off renting or spending your money elsewhere, because the additions won't warrant you to purchase 
 the same game/s twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: EINZhengchang
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 17, 2008 12:56 pm PT
Review:  Worth The Money!! Nowdays u can't find any game which is 5 in 1
  and all the games are worth playing.
  
  Entertained even my wife (who is a non-gamer) . Simple 
 concepts but makes the most fun out of it. Greatly recommended if u're looking for a game to be 
 entertained for more than a few hours. (Its already my 5th day and i'm still hooked to the game. 
 Its the 1st thing on my mind when i wake up in the morning/afternoon.) 
  
  TF2 gameplay: simple and nice, its requires teamwork. Captivating and heart-stopping. Online traffic 
 is gd too, with no problem finding and playing host.
  
  Half-life 2 gameplay: graphic's good, there's a storyline which still gripes at me.
  
  Portal 
 gameplay: (keke) Haven't tried this yet... (Still can't find the time to try this game yet, as TF2 
 has taken a hold on me and won't be letting go for sometime to come....) 
  
  My opinion, "buy this game and you won't regret it, as TF2 (oops, its my fav) will be 1 of the most 
 exilerating and fufilling game i've played with my pals. (If u've played COD4, Battlefield 2 online, 
 u'll know wat i mean, those games, even though u're in the same team are still abt individual scores 
 but TF2 is really abt teamwork, without the team, nothing can happen.)
  
  Last but not least, TWO Thumbs Up!!!
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: char1968
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 16, 2008 7:45 am PT
Review:  wow im speechless here i love half life 2 and you don't have to know the story because this is 
 like another story completely! 
  
  half life 2, episode 1 and episode 2 all great games fun to play a real fps-long action-adventure 
 game.!!! some people say there scary but how i didn't find anything scary! the graphics game play 
 and sound all 9/10s!!! and this will take you 10-15 hours to beat!
  
  portal: this is cool! i've never played a game like this and some people bought this just for that 
 game!!! only bad thing is is that it will take you 3-5 hours to beat....
  
  team fortress 2 (also known as TF2) this is fun, if you can find a server! theres not many maps total 
 people in a single battle is like 16! its ok i guess its not that fun I'm my opion the graphics 
 are kinda cool and classes are but it just didn't intreset me at all.....
  
  overall 9 out of 10 an amazing games a must buy!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Azuma_NarooN
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 14, 2008 1:26 pm PT
Review:  Simply put, this is FPS Heaven. You get 5 games in one box, Half Life 2 and it's two expansions, 
 Episode One and Episode Two, along with Portal and Team Fortress 2. 
  
  The Half Life 2 series thus far are awesome. You play as theoretical scientist Gordon Freeman, 
 hero of the previous game, and he is blessed with the ability to adapt to pretty much any situation, 
 or at least get saved in any situation. The Half-Life series pretty much combines the usual FPS 
 norm with platforming, puzzles, and a story that is told 100% from the player's perspective; there 
 are no cutscenes or bios anywhere to be found. 
  
  You get access to many different weapons and items, such as the iconic crowbar and the new Gravity 
 Gun. This allows you to manipulate objects by manipulating gravity itself. Only certain objects 
 can be picked up, but heavier objects can usually be pushed using the gun. Speaking of weapons, 
 regardless of the stopping power of a 12 gauge shotgun, or a .357 revolver, enemies have no problem 
 taking multiple headshots and still filling you with lead. Gordon can take lots of damage luckily, 
 since enemies don't really miss unless from a sniping distance.
  
  All 3 Half Life games have their problems though. There are far too many areas with the zombified 
 enemies you must face off. They are almost always underground, which gets really old, really fast. 
 You always get ambushed by cheap black headcrabs, who deplete your HP to 1 no matter what, and 
 randomly placed explosive barrels which serve no purpose besides great usage with the Gravity Gun, 
 or so zombies can throw them at you. There are these things called Barnacles which are just pieces 
 of flesh with long tongues, who stay attached to ceilings, who pull you up and try to gobble you, 
 and usually Valve will place 50 of them in one small roof so you can waste all your ammo on them. 
 
  
  There are also vehicle sections, which suck because their main purpose is to get you from point 
 A to point B, usually having to stop at every house or building you see along the way for some 
 odd reason. The story itself is vastly improved from the original, with some returning character, 
 and a new main character, Alyx Vance. She is the daughter of one of the characters from the first 
 game, Eli Vance. The interactions you share with her and others is even more enhanced with the 
 games' awesome facial animation technology and body animations. 
  
  The visuals are pretty sharp, but take note that this game was released in 2004, and it's expansions 
 didn't really do much to enhance the graphics, besides Episode Two's introduction of HDR Lighting 
 and such. The graphics aren't anything to scream about, but they're good nonetheless. The sound 
 is also top-notch, although the gunfire of certain weapons can get annoying and repetitive after 
 a while. Sadly, there is no multiplayer at all for HL2 included in this bundle.
  
  Portal is a new game, created by a team of graduates from some school I can't remember right now, 
 who worked on a game with similar gameplay called Narbacular Drop. The basic premise is that you're 
 a test subject for Aperture Science, a rival of Black Mesa, the place Gordon Freeman worked for 
 in Half Life 1. Early on in the game, you get the Portal Gun, which allows you to fire an Orange 
 portal and a Blue Portal. Neither portal is an exit for the other; if you go through one portal, 
 you'll exit out of the other. You can (and will have to) use this to your advantage in some test 
 chambers to escape, errm, I mean "finish" the test chamber. You'll have to be witty, readily able 
 to manipulate gravity and the environment to get to new areas and such. 
  
  The graphics of this game are a bit better than Half Life 2's, but remember that all games in this 
 pack run on the Source engine, and will have similar visuals, not including Team Fortress 2 and 
 it's unique art style. The game has no other NPC's, other than GLaDOS, the "voice" you hear throughout 
 the game. You play as some woman named Chell, also modeled after a real person, much like almost 
 everyone in HL2. The game's environments get really repetitive, and the game itself lasts for a 
 scant 1-to-5 hours depending on which playthrough you're on. Upon completion though, you unlock 
 new versions of old test chambers and some new challenges to complete, along with developer commentary. 
 Portal has no multiplayer, which might be a good thing right now, since it'd be pretty wacky. Portal 
 has cool sound effects, but not that big of a soundtrack. 
  
  Team Fortress 2, is the multiplayer only edition. There is a unique, cartoon like art style of 
 this game, and 9 classes this time around, ensuring that everyone will have at least one class 
 they can relate to. There aren't that many maps, but each one has many areas to explore and take 
 over. Everyone has one taunt for each weapon or item, only adding to the awesome list of sounds, 
 voices, and animations you can use against others. It's pretty much just RED versus "BLU" on this 
 game, and about 3 different game modes, but it's all in great fun. The game can have ridiculously 
 long load times without any real reason sometimes (a symptom of Valve letting EA make this port) , 
 and this happens for all games in The Orange Box. 
  
  Sometimes the games will have random slowdowns too, for seemingly no reason. This is EA's fault, 
 obviously not the PS3's. As of the day this review was written, however, Valve has promised a patch 
 to fix these hindrances. This is a MUST BUY, even if you don't like FPS games. Just go and buy 
 this now. No arguing. Buy it. Buy it twice. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ed765
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 13, 2008 8:19 am PT
Review:  what can i say about the orange box that hasnt already been said, the game is great providing an 
 amzing story and amazing physics engine, when you play this game you left feeling as if you cant 
 put it down cause its sooooo amazing i'll go game by game half life 2 has got to be one of the 
 most craziest games i've ever playyed it has this post apocolyiptic feel to it kinda like children 
 of men if you've ever seen the movie, and the fact that the game comes with an expansion to the 
 story episode one and two is amazing you can definetly feel the next gen in the game, team fortress2 
 is a very intense online game with crazyiness added in it, you may think when your playing it these 
 graphics are cartoony but while your playing look around there actually really amazing, and last 
 but not least portal the most innovative game i've ever played its amazing and fun you should definatly 
 check this game out i mean if you have to buy orange box just for this game then i would its that 
 good i give the orange box an amzing 10 knife weilding companion cubes out 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: carl_may_cry
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 6:17 am PT
Review:  
  I don, t know what gamespot said about Episode 1 being the weakest. Personally, It was my favorite 
 game just after portal; which I passed 4 times. I didn't play Team Fortress 2 because i don't like 
 Playstation network and everything but I guess that it's very good. I didn't like Episode 2 because 
 I thought that it was too much the same as HL 1, HL 2, and episode 1. 
  HL 2 was very very fun, the graphics are just too cool and the action is non-stop. Now lets go 
 to portal. When I bought it, it was the first game I played and I wasn't impressed one bit. Then, 
 little by little, I started liking it more. The sort of lagued voice is creepy and very cool indeed. 
 The levels are very well planned and well imagined. The graphics are beautiful and the way it was 
 made, the game looks even more fabulous. 
  It surprised me that I liked this game because I hated HL 1. I thought it was so unoriginal but 
 everyone liked it so my word doesn't really count on that game. But I really recommend this game 
 to anyone who likes to get a lot for their money. You should all own a copy. period. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaForce
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2008 11:01 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is a bang for your buck. you get 5 games in one and the action never stops. Originaly 
 made for pc and xbox 360, the transition to the ps3 was less than smooth, and this version is filled 
 with long load times, minor bugs, and an incredicble amount of fun despite the previous. Among 
 the amount of gameplay is quality of the story. The player is paying for an awesome story that 
 seem to wind and go on forever, making this game seem like an epic story. Its not like buying a 
 game and getting the story and wanting more; with the orange box you get multiple games and a unique 
 story that is a perfect length. The multiplayer is also addictive. If you dont have any of the 
 major online multiplayers, or if your just sick of them, team fortress will fill the need of any 
 online player with its strange physics and diversity of characters. If you can buy it for the pc 
 or 360, but if your only choice is a ps3 you won't be disapointed because even for $60 this package 
 is a steal. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aannndrey
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  First of all, if you have a ps3, then you absoleutly must buy this. It comes with 5 games that 
 come with price tag of one. You nit-picky fans really just have no excuses anymore. And with that 
 being said, there some problems.
  One being the frame rate (escepecially during Half Life 2) , once the action picks up or you fire 
 too many flammable barrels, it just doen't pick up fast enough, often leaving you wondering why 
 the X360 can handle it, but your ps3 can't. Now unto the games
  
  Half Life 2:
  A great game, and I do mean that by every respect possible, but it's starting to show it's age. 
 With modern first person shooters like Unreal Tournament III and Call of Duty IV, HL 2 looks pretty 
 dated in comparison. But incredible story and amazing amazing gameplay make up for pretty much 
 every problem. A classic.
  
  Half 2 Episode 1:
  Also a great game, but probably the worst game to be found on this collection. The graphics look 
 better and sharper, the action is pretty much alike to the previous installment. But the game is 
 really short, and doesn't really cover a lot of ground - story wise. Expect to beat it within 2.5 
 - 3 hours.
  
  Half Life 2 Episode 2:
  The second best game in the bunch. The graphics are the best they've ever been in the Half Life 
 series, and a lot of the frame rate issues are sorted out in this game. The story finally gets 
 much, much better - finally, after the dull episode 1, and leaves you with a big cliffhanger at 
 the end to keep you wanting and waiting till the next episode. Fantastic game.
  
  Portal:
  Three words: PLAY THIS GAME. (though Like HL2 E 1, it's relitevly short, but the humour 
 and game-play make up for it. The best game in this box)
  
  Team Fortess:
  It's alright. That's all I have to say. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: D-Man7
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 11, 2008 1:25 pm PT
Review:  Pretty fun, i didnt really enjoy the urban fighting, I didnt really expect the game to be like 
 it was, i thought that it would be more like the original but it wasnt. I also thought that it 
 was dumb that they took out some of the old aliens like those stupid fish things, you hate it when 
 you run into them in the game but, as soon as they are gone you miss them. I also didnt enjoy the 
 weapon selection. Yet again, they took out weapons from the game that were in the old Half Lifes'. 
 Like I said the game didnt explain the storyline and how the combine got there well enough. I didnt 
 understand how the combine just got to earth and obtained all of these machine guns and **** Did 
 they come to earth with them? or did they get them from there planet or where ever the **** they 
 came from? Kind of frustrating because..... it doesnt.... explain.... The good of this game is that 
 it is addictive, pretty good storyline, keeps you wondering, and it also keeps you wanting to play. 
 Overall synopsis of the game is that it is pretty good, could have been a 10/10, and didnt stick 
 to the basis of half life, shoulda sticked..... tried new things, and they didnt work out to well. 
 I would buy but dont be too excited. Still a good game though just a bit frustrated about it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chilly94
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 10, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  A great game, necessary for everyones collection as this game has hours and hours of playability. 
 Considering the game is older the graphics are better than what some companies are trying to pass 
 off as next gen games for the new consoles. And how can you beat 5 in 1, or about 12 per game. 
 Not bad. I must for the FPS lovers. Game has great storylines, only missing your character actually 
 speaking, sometime you feel you want to speak for him. Weapons might not be state of the art you 
 see in other shooters but the gravity gun is just too much fun. Grabbing saw blades and throwing 
 them is great fun. And on top of the great single player games you get Fortress which might not 
 be the best graphics but is a fun addition to the online shooters. Numerous other great gameplay 
 items make this a must own for all gamers. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: xYamatox
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 6:08 am PT
Review:  The Orange box is probably one of the best games to come out in a while, because it doesn't consist 
 of just one game, but three (Some would say that Half-Life: Episode One and Two count as different 
 games, but they are really just expansions of Half-Life 2, which is a good thing) . 
  
  For the price of one game, you get: 
  
  - Half-Life 2 (Ep. One and Two)
  - Portal and
  
 - Team Fortress 2
  
  Half-Life 2: The Good
  
  If there could be one word to describe Half-Life 2, it would be "mutha-f@#king addicting!" It's 
 a very long game, that has a very interesting visual design (Which is hard to come by in a lot 
 of shooters nowadays) . With an interesting set of weapons to choose from, including the infamous 
 Crowbar, you will have a lot of fun ripping your opponents apart. 
  
  However, I personally feel that one of the most interesting additions to this game, would be the 
 gravity gun. You will most likely find yourself messing around with the physics of the game, and 
 creating interesting ways to defeat your enemies, without firing a single bullet at them! With 
 outstanding visuals, and one of the best storylines out there, Half-Life 2 is an amazing steal.
 
  
  Half-Life 2: The Bad
  
  Although I personally loved the game, I can't help but feel that not everyone will enjoy it. With 
 a huge fan base, it is pretty clear that it is a popular game, but people new to the Half-Life 
 series might see it in a different light then it's cult following. 
  
  Although the game has a good list of weapons, I noticed that there was "just something missing" 
 from the shooting aspect of it all. The puzzles in the game, although rewarding at times, just 
 seemed like they were more of a chore then really solving something. Also, swimming consists of 
 bobbing up and down (which I found to be rather funny, but could be annoying to some) .
  
  My score for Half-Life 2: 9.5/10
  
  Portal: The Good
  
  I have to admit, I was very opinionated 
 (in a bad way) about this game when first hearing about it. Didn't seem like much fun to me... how 
 wrong I was. The comedy in this game was actually funny, and the game introduced me to one of my 
 favorite characters in gaming history... a voice (Play the game, and you'll know) . With ti's trippy 
 gameplay, and awesome replay ability, Portal is a solid addition to The Orange Box.
  
  Portal: The Bad
  
  On top of it's slow start, Portal is just too short. The puzzle aspect of 
 the game were too easy to solve (for me at least) , and gave little difficulty. I mean hell, I practically 
 beat the game in one sitting. Other then that, the game was solid.
  
  My score for Portal: 8.5/10
  
  Team Fortress 2: The Good
  
  Team Fortress was a load of 
 fun, and was very different from the hoards of online shooters out now. It's cartoonish look, and 
 qwarky character designs actually worked well for this game. Each class is very unique, ranging 
 from the Gatling gun wielding Heavy Weapons, the chaotic flamethrower wielding Pyro, the stealthy 
 Spy, and many more! The game is really easy to pick up, and is a blast to play.
  
  Team Fortress 2: The Bad
  
  Oh my god! If I have to play another game of 2fort, I'm ganna go 
 insane! The only problem with this game, is that whenever you sign on, the only game people ever 
 play is 2fort (Team Fortress 2's variation of Capture the Flag) . I think out of my whole time playing 
 the game, I have tried 3 maps total out of all of them. Although annoying, this can't be blamed 
 at the game, since it uses a voteing option at the end of each match played. Everyone picks the 
 same map over, and over again... If this were to change, the game would be MUCH more enjoyable...
 
  
  My score for Team Fortress 2: 9/10
  
  Since The Orange Box is three games for the price of one, I gave it an extra .5 in it's total score. 
 Valve really made a good move by selling their game this way, and I hope to see this happen for 
 games in the future.
  
  My score for The Orange Box: 9.5/10 (You must get this game)
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: niconude
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 6, 2008 2:37 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box contains something for everyone.
  
  The FPS fans get all the Half Life two installments. An awsome first person shooter that is more 
 engaging than anything I have ever played. Lots of action, adventure and the gameplay is very nice. 
 If you can I would reommend the pc version over the ps3 for better controls. 
  
  The thinking gamer gets Portal. Wow, I can't think of anything bad to say about this game. Its 
 very very clever and contains some of the coolest humour I have ever heard in a game. There are 
 archievements here that will have you go back and play this game ALOT!
  
  Then the online player gets TF2. I havent played this game to much since Im not a huge multiplayer 
 fan, but I actually got a little bit interested in online playing after trying it out. Love the 
 graphical style and the characters are awsome:-) 
  
  These three games are new. Beside them, you get the two previous half life 2 games to get you up 
 to date with the story. Half Life 2 is still awsome and the graphics have held up! 
  
  If you are new to half life, you are looking at around 25 hours of Half life, 3 hours of Portal, 
 and TF2 can have you playing into the hundreds of hours. 
  
  I recommend this box in the strongest way possible! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GTAmaster35
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 1, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  Half-Life 2- this game is dul at the most. no happy parts... no help from any body its just u and 
 ur trusty weapons... its also hard to figure out where to go and what do do at some points. i suggest 
 using a guide or sumthing to help you. the misions are extremly long if you go at your own pace 
 and have no clue what to do. But the story is kinda hard to figure out... i mean it makes no sence 
 to me... ur just on the run... the other parts to this game are better. the end of this game will 
 make you want to know whats next. this game get a 7/10
  
  Half-Life 2-1- this game is better than the Half-Life bc you accually have someone helping you 
 through the game, but shes not always there... this game is mostly like Half-Life 2 but with more 
 of the story, an AI helper, and better levels. not much to say but a 7.5/10
  
  Half-Life 2-2- I have yet to finish this game... but i would say it the best of the series... better 
 levels than the rest, a better AI, and more to the story with a dramatic ending... thus i give 
 it a 8/10
  
  Portal- this game is awesome. it gets pretty hard once you get both the portal maker things. but 
 its still fun. this is a game that lets you check if you know you physics. its not that hard really... 
 i beat it in like2 or 3 sits. this is one of the better games in the Orange Box, so i give it a 
 8.5/10
  
  AND LASTLY...
  
  Team Fortress 2- this is my favorite out of the whole box. But it has it problems. There is much 
 lag in most games which makes the game unplayable at times. most of the people that play are pretty 
 good so dont expect to be thebest when you start playing it. it gets frustrating at times when 
 a spy backstabs you... i give this game a 9.5
  
  THE WHOLE BOX...
  
  This game is not prefect... the 360 and PC counterparts are suprior to the PS3 version... Long 
 wait can get frustrating... Portal for PS3 is different on than the Portal for the other systems... 
 expect a patch this March for some problems to be fixed. this is a game you will want to keep playing 
 because of TF2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sifer
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 29, 2008 3:51 pm PT
Review:  this game is like one of my favorite games on the PS3 because it was like five games on it other 
 than like one i rember playin halff life 2 on the xbox now its really kool that they got a episode 
 oneeeee and two and team fortuess is a really fun first person shooter game it is really fun because 
 team fortuess is like only online tats really kool and it is kool because how you can like pick 
 your people you can be i useally played as like a sniper or a machine gun guy this game is like 
 really allsome this game is like really reallllllllllly allsome i would play this for the rest 
 of my lifee if i could this game is a lot betttter than uncharted drakes fortune and motorstormm 
 this game is like one of the koolest games i have played on the PS3 i got my PS3 in December the 
 PS3 is way better than the ps2 the grapics online play friends and last but not lest the abilty 
 two used chat the only bad thing about orange box is that they put the game portol or what ever 
 it is called but the four games are reallly fun 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Clominon
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 5, 2008 1:46 am PT
Review:  When I go threw a portal I do not come out from the other side. But that's just cause I don't live 
 in a video game! So I just finished playing Portal you know the game from valve? Half life? Anyone? 
 Anyways the game was funny/fun. Very short! And I mean really short! I finished the game in like 
 less than 4 hours or something + break time! The game was so short that a snail would have won 
 if we were in a race. Anyways it's okay because it was a fun game to play. So I forgive you Valve! 
 The game is more like a freeware thing that you can download for free. But no I had to buy it. 
 I bought it for the PS3. Well I bought the Orange box thing. Why orange? Why not blue box.. It 
 sounds so much cooler. Like "Dude I just bought the BB!" the what? "You know the Blue Box!" wow 
 dude! Awesome! BB rules! Stuff like that! Instead I have to say I bought the orange box -_-" bla 
 bla bla ... It's not really about the name of the thing. Portal! Yes Portal! I really enjoyed it... 
 Ever since I watched a trailer of it like a year or 2 ago I was so excited to play this thing 
 first I heard it's only for xbox360. I said, quote here: "NOOOOOOOOO!!!" then I heard its also 
 coming out for PS3. Then I was like "YESSSSS" anyways the idea of the game is you are a test subject. 
 Waking up in a glass room and you have to do this puzzle things to advance to the next room. It 
 wasn't really hard to figure out how. I think the game was made for 8 year olds. Oh I feel so young 
 again. So you get this portal creating gun. Shoot a portal where you are and another one where 
 you want to go and just walk threw it. Simple right? Yes very simple. Threw out the game you keep 
 hearing this robot-ish voice (Anonymous voice) sometimes helping you or just saying something funny. 
 So that was fun too. The graphics of the game were good. Just good. 
  And like that robot-ish voice dude keeps promising you cake. But at the end! Surprise surprise! 
 No cake. Instead they want to kill you. You escape and try to get the hell out of there. And the 
 robot keeps trying to get you go back. Eventually you find a way to the robot-ish voice thing. 
 Okay imagine this: matrix computers hanging from sealing, big ass eye balls and dark/scary room. 
 You get the idea? Anyways you have to kick the eye balls behind before the time runs out. If you 
 fail you start all over again! Well only that level (no game over start all over again thing by 
 the way) . And if you win the thing turns into a tornado and you pass out. You wake up outside of 
 the whole base. The end. One thing I didn't like was the loading. Every time I finished a room/level 
 it had to load the next one or when i died. So annoying. Like PS3 next gen. why is there loading 
 in one of the most advanced game consoles so far? But Portal is not the only game with loadings. 
 So it's okay. Well it's not Okay because Portal is a short/small game so it shouldn't have loadings 
 at all. 
  
  If you like puzzle games that aren't too hard and if you like Valve, than this is a fun game to 
 play. (with 8 year olds) . So go buy the orange box  see it just doesn't sound nice! Orange Box 
 -_-" anyways.. If you get the Orange Box you also get half life / episode 2 and all the fun fun 
 games. 
  ____
  
  Just an add-on
  I figured something out after playing almost all the games on this thing (the oragne box people!!) . 
 Every time I play this game I get a headache and stomach-ache... not because it's a crappy game! 
 (Which it isn't) it's just that I laterally feel sick every time I play the games... does that 
 happen to anyone ells? Or is it just me?! I can't play this game for more than 20 minutes at a 
 time or ells I have to throw up. What the heck is going on here?!!!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kid_ranqe
Rating: 9.5
Date: Mar 9, 2008 9:45 pm PT
Review:  Orange box is a really great adventure shooter game because it has 5 different games in it you 
 will find yourself playing this game for a long period of time. 
  
  You can find half life 2 addicting because of the different weapons, allot of shooting, explosives, 
 action and vehicles. this is very cool I would prefer the PC version over the 360 and ps3 because 
 it has better controls.
  
  Portal is an awesome game, allot of levels and puzzles to solve and allot of humor in it. also 
 this is probably the best puzzle game in history and what else that makes this game great is thats 
 it that portal is a shooter. this game rocks
  
  if your looking for a stragedy shooter then team fortress 2 is the game for you this game has so 
 many character classes and weapons, I am sure you will love this game.
  
  half life 2 comes with 2 more half life 2 series which like I said will keep you playing for hours, 
 portal you will keep you in your seat also because it has allot of cool puzzles to solve, team 
 fortress 2 is just great and all these games come in one box! the orange box!
  
  so what are you waiting for? get this game now!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: gatorforlife07
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 25, 2008 9:47 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box features 5 games on one disk the games are Portal Half Life 2 episode one, Half 
 Life 2 episode 2, Team Fortress 2, and Half life 2. Portal is a fun puzzle game where you are put 
 through many expirements with a gun that makes Portals and you have to get past a room where you 
 are trapped in. The Half Life games are just ordinary shooters but with a great story and they 
 are all very fun. Team Fortress is an online game only where you join a team and you can play different 
 games on different maps like capture the flag or a territory game. Team Fortress has nine different 
 charchters you can play as and each of them have different talents like a spy can change into someone 
 on the different team and murder people by stabbing them in the back. The Orange Box is a fun game 
 and a great deal and it shouldn't be missed by anybody. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: the-queen
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 20, 2008 5:37 pm PT
Review:  The Half Life 2 series was very successful on enjoyed excellent success, now it gets a try on the 
 PS3, including Portal, a new ingenious puzzle game and Team Fortress an enjoyable team-based , 
 multiplayer, crammed into one Blu-Ray Disc in The Orange Box.
  
  The story of Half Life 2 is that Dimensional Aliens called The Combine took over Earth using the 
 portals caused by Black Mesa. You play MIT graduate Dr. Gordon Freeman as he joins the Resistance 
 to liberate Earth.
  
  Portal's story is that you're a test subject in the Aperture Science Labs using the Portal Gun 
 and under the constant watch of GLaDOS as she offers you cake.
  
  The Source Engine, although it may a little grey around areas, the graphics are brilliant. Facial 
 animations are superb, lighting is very realistic and astounding voice work that makes care abut 
 every character. The graphics in Team Fortress 2 are very good. Every gun shines, cloth creases 
 and cartoon-y effects make it a lovable game.
  
  Although you may have heard that the PS3 version has terrible frame rate, it has minor frame rate 
 issues but not so severe to make you snap your SIXAXIS in half .
  
  Does who have always wanted to play Half-Life 2 on their PC but know their PC is not powerful for 
 it, then get this and play it on the PS3 and enjoy 5 terrific, excellent games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: overkill138
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 16, 2008 12:41 pm PT
Review:  What a great combination of games. This is the first game i got for my ps3 and im glad i did. It 
 certainly shows off the power of the next gen consoles. first ill start off with talking about 
 Half-Life 2:
  
  I owned the original half life for ps2. When Half Life 2 came out, i was very excited. The problem? 
 I didin't have anything that could run it. My computer was Oh-So very pale and was running windows 
 ' 98 at the time. 3 years later i get a ps3-now that should run it fine-so i get set up my ps3-plug 
 it in-configure it-and enter the world that is City 17. As i pick up the controller, i am submerged 
 in happiness with the Crisp, Clean graphics and the Fluent animations that fill my eyes. Massive 
 building tower over me, as i get knocked on my ass by one of the combine. As i play through the 
 game, i encounter my first weapon, a steel crowbar. AND THAT KIDS, IS WHERE THE FUN REALLY BEGINS 
 :) as i smash the hell out of combine and wood crates alike, i know that this is a going to pWn. 
 The game is great fun, except when theres 14515 things on the screen, you get some framerate issues, but 
 for the most part its a thriller. 
  Next i will talk about portal:
  i went into portal expecting to hate it. ive never been a fan of puzzle games, but i found that 
 it is more than that. it is a "New-Breed" of game. with graphics reminiscent of HL2 and gameplay 
 like nothing ive ever seen before, i suddenly settled down and played it. there are some mind-bending 
 puzzles. Although not a huge fan, ive grown to like portal.
  Next up is last, but not least, (actually my favorite part of the Orange Box) , ITS TEAM FORTRESS 2!:
 
  Although ive never played the original, this turned to be my favorite game in the O. B. Team Fortress 
 2 isint like COD4 or anything like that... its a new breed. Heres the ingredients: 1/2 cup Shoot 
 'Em Up FPS,1/2 Puzzle Game
  You have to enjoy getting one-hit kills as your switch blade stabs deep in the back of a guy thats 
 3 feet taller and 300 Lbs heavier than you! (The Spy) .... or maybe its chopping the head off of 
 your worst enemy ? (Pyro) ..... Or it could be mowing down a field of 6 people with a fully loaded 
 minigun ? (Heavy) . 
  Whatever satisfies you, im sure you'll find it in The Orange Box. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokas1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 15, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  One of the best games made in 2007 years.
  Orange Box features 5 games in one , that will blow You AWAY!
  
  Half Life 2 /Episode One/Episode 
 Two
  Folowing the story of Gordong Freman , a scientist who now is saving earth from aliens is a great 
 FPS shoot-em game. Using old graphical engine and yet still improving whole game with it's awesome 
 new graphics!
  
  Portal
  Braincracking game with stylish weapon in hand , makes you a Portal Master. Learn all skills how 
 to make a portal and take on all challenges!
  
  Team Fotress 2 
  Most of the best shooting online game via PS3. TF2 brings you new cell shaded graphics , blood thirst 
 & funny game packed with it's own features with different classes , lets you master an online game! Challenge 
 your friends , nemesis or rivals for a a big smile!
  
  Fusing all these games in Orange Box , lets you enjoy your game for 250+ hours to take on all challenges! What 
 are you waiting for go buy yourself and PLAY IT!
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ps3pwnr
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 13, 2008 5:12 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has tons of spark it is defiently top ten of the year of 2007. The great thing about 
 the orange box is it is not just one game it isfive games. The five games are portal, half life 
 2, half life 2 episode 1 and episode 2 and their is also TF2. First I will talk about TF2 i am 
 not going to explain it in full detail but i have to say this is the number 1 game in Orange Box 
 what you do in TF2 is you have to control points and you also play capture the flag. Then their 
 is portal. Portal is a puzzle game and it is outstanfing and mind bending all at the same time. 
 Then their is also half life I don't need to review half life because it is so old and we've all 
 spend 10 hours wrecking city 17 if you haven't just one word out standing top 10 game of the year 
 The orange box 9 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ooginator
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 9, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  Half life 2 and episode 2 are both brilliant, however, playing through all 3 games you cant help 
 but notice that episode 1 is , although good, not to the same standard as the other 2 games as 
 it is far too short and there is serious lack of decent weapons, although using the super charge 
 gravity gun is good for a few laughs.
  Portal is sure to be an instant classic and can provide hours of fun despite not having the same 
 amount of lifespan as the other games provide, a sequel is a dead certainty.
  Team fortress is a great online game which can provide hours of mindless killing which is surprisingly 
 fun. You will constantly find yourself wasting hours at a time without even realising it.
  Overall the orange box is great value for money and whatever console/system you own this is a game 
 you must purchase now.
  No buy it now.
  Why are you still reading i told you to buy the game NOW!!!!!
  
  P. S. Just a quick note, Remember 
 the cake is a lie. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: -Renegade
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 25, 2008 5:42 pm PT
Review:  Well I would just like to say I have never played a Half Life game before this one and I was eagerly 
 anticipated this game. Now I will say that the game just started off ok but as I progressed I found 
 it to be uninteresting and couldn't wait for the next big thing to happen. ALOT of waiting I did. 
 
  
  First I will start with Half and the Episodes. I thought the story was okay but I just felt it 
 just dragged on for no reason. I would get to a certain point then somehow with the way the plot 
 was set I would eventually be split from the main characters. I would be sent on long journeys 
 that I thought were just to long and felt like I was doing them with no purpose. The weapons are 
 average at best and the gravity gun just didn't do anything for me. I felt it was pretty weak and 
 just there just to be there. I thought the game was pretty boring until Episode 2. It got heated 
 about half way through and the end was kinda epic, but other then that I felt this game just didn't 
 deliver. 
  
  Portal is a very neat title and should be tried by all. I thought Team Fortress 2 was something 
 new for FPS but it just couldn't keep me hooked. Overall this is alot of content here but I just 
 feel like I wasted alot of my time for a medicore title. This is just how I feel about the game 
 others may find this game classy sadly I am not one those people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Fman12
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 8, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  This is an awesome pack of games. I know a lot of people like the half life series and if you read 
 this you'll probably call me an idiot but I don't like them. But portal and tf2 are amazing. Portal 
 is an awesome ambitious and unique game. It also very trippy. TF2 is I think the best game it has 
 fluent controls and I think the smoothest graphics. By that i mean the graphics don't glitch like 
 stuff going through walls. The different types of people you can be and all the strategy is great. 
 By the way im awesome at it my name is Joob2 play me sometime. This is a must buy for all PS3 owners. 
 Make sure you have online though cause its only an online game. saidh ihea ipah dhoih f apih ph 
 a'ph pihpa'i pi piap ipiah phfih ippi ipsh ihe pipe pih pp ip pihp aphp'ahpf hphfpshf p p p pih 
 fpisw p ip phfibo abobpv dhp p p pe peh p [9u [9wq [h [h 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RMANPOWER
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:20 pm PT
Review:  Man, I don't know where to start off with this game. I'm really having a fun time playing this 
 game, brings back some good memories when I played the first Half Life on PS2. A long time ago, 
 I played Half Life 2 on Xbox, now I got the chance to replay it over with Next Gen graphics. It's 
 a HUGE difference. The gameplay is awesome, voice acting is tip notch dead on, everything about 
 this game is simply fun to play. 
  
  Graphics: Pretty good, not to bad at all. Major improvement from Xbox haha
  
  Gameplay: The 
 best that I've played in a FPS game, It ranks up there with my game called The Darkness, but HL2 
 is my current favorite FPS game of all time. Sorry Call of Duty 4
  
  Sound: Excellent, I love everything about it. Shooting so much you hear the echos fade away.
 
  
  I did counter some of the bad framerate, but once you get passed it then it's okay. Nothing that 
 will get you upset about, but just wanted to let everyone know that it does have some framerate 
 issues.
  
  TF Online: I only played it for 15 mins, seems really fun. I was more into the HL2 story cause 
 I want to finish it, but I'll be playing this very shortly on the weekends.
  
  Portal: I haven't touched it yet, but I heard from my fellow friends that it's awesome. I'll give 
 it a try very soon.
  
  Overall: This is worth the 60 dollar price tag, I'm glad I got a good deal on Ebay for half the 
 price. Pick this game up if you don't have it, Hope this helps.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Andrew_Wulgaru
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 5, 2008 10:46 am PT
Review:  Valve actually pulled of what seems to be the most daring marketing stunt possible: 5 games for 
 the price of one.
  This would seem a complete waste of effort, which, I can tell you, they put an awful lot of it 
 in those games, were it not that these games are selling like crazy, and for good reason.
  If you're not into horror-shooters, you'll be most disappointed, but only a little, like me.
 
  Half life 2 and it's two follow-ups are great shooters, even if you wish to stop every time you 
 see a horribly disfigured humanoid zombie come your way, but to me, and to every person on this 
 planet that wishes his games devoid of the walking dead, Team Fortress 2 and Portal are what you 
 should by the box for, though only 40% of the box is TF2 and Portal.
  Portal is a puzzler, in its purest form, and funny and addictive at that. During the game you'll 
 be accompanied by an AI-voice, GLaDOS, which makes a habit out of malfunctioning and promising 
 pie. 
  The fantastic physics engine makes this game enormous, and the whole, the comical side, the puzzles, 
 the unravelling backstory and the great visuals and feel of the game make this a must have.
  
  Last, but certainly not least, is Team Fortress 2. TF2 still uses the same Valve engine, but 
 turns it into a 3D comic book. The only downside to this game is its impossibility to play offline. 
 
  It's, once again, a shooter, but a shooter that allows every other kind of gameplay style, dependant 
 of your favorite.
  If you're a rusher, have no fear, Heavy is here, a bulky guy with a a minigun and twice the life 
 total.
  If you're a camper, there's the sniper, and so on and so forth.
  There is no deathmatch, but that's why it's called TEAM fortress, even if it is a little disappointing. 
 
  But the really cool part is the ability for the characters to taunt by the pressing of a single 
 button. Apparently it took the creators quite a while, and it shows, to make all of the taunts 
 situation based, which makes for some great moments. For example, after making a headshot, your 
 sniper will, with a Redneck accent, yell "Thanks for standing still, wanker". 
  It can be hard to concentrate, however, as you'll be laughing and talking in your headphone most 
 of the time.
  A downer, once again, is internet connection. My connection tends to be a little... well... bad, 
 so Portal is my game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pablich
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 26, 2008 1:23 am PT
Review:  Ok, I'm gonna start this review by saying that this "collection" rocks!!
  Half-Life games are awesome, if I must say it, I had never found a game which made me think this 
 much and shoot as much as half-life has done, the environments make you feel scared and nervous, 
 the enemies are badass and the controls and gameplay are awesome but not flawless.
  
  Portal is a really good game to make you think, sometimes it's so hard that you'll be busting your 
 head against a wall but it's not impossible, I haven't been able to finish this one yet, cause 
 it sometimes makes me feel so frustrated!
  
  Team Fortress 2 is an excellent online game, it's really fun and has a lot of difficulty because 
 you are playing online against OBVIOUSLY real people that don't think as a computer, so this adds 
 a lot more challenge to this game
  
  In conclusion: The Orange Box is a game that shouldn't be missed by any FPS fans 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Become_the_Sea
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 1, 2008 4:44 pm PT
Review:  Half life 2 has an amazing story, hands down, it will keep you on the edge of your seat, taking 
 you through stunning enviorments and plenty of action to keep you entertained. It also has its 
 fair share of puzzles to keep your brain working. Half Life 2 is in no way a mindless violent game, 
 It definitly has a movie type feel to it, tons of creepy dark areas ,plus the game engine is amazing, 
 with awesome life like gravity. (My favorite item being the gravity gun, which is acquired around 
 midway in the game) , letting you turn almost any object into a weapon, I enjoyed launching radiators 
 at soldiers. The Orange box also comes with "portal" and "team fortress 2" which are two different, 
 yet awesome games, portal is a puzzle game involving er... portals! And team fortress 2 is an online 
 team based action game. 
  Over all, this is a awesome deal for 5 games for the price of one, you get 3 half life games, which 
 all are in decent length and then two mini games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 30, 2008 3:45 am PT
Review:  I played HL2 on my old original Xbox 2 years ago, so it was great to replay it in HD on my PS3 
 and HD TV that I got in the meantime. The game technically is a little dated, but the story is 
 great and really pulls you in. The mood the game sets is really well done in how depressing and 
 lonely it makes you feel at times.
  
  The new HL Episodes 1 and 2 really expand on the storytelling aspect, and I like how they have 
 the computer controlled Alyx accompany you for most of the game. I hope they have Episode 3 out 
 soon to see how it ends.
  
  A lot of talk is made about PS3 slowdown, but I have to say I didn't really notice any of that. 
 Maybe because I played it originally on the old Xbox that anything is better than that? What did 
 bother me was how long it took to load up the game again after you died. Be prepared to see "Loading...." 
 a LOT! Especially in episode 2.
  
  Portal was a fun little diversion, but the Team Fortress 2 has no interest for me since I don't 
 play online games.
  
  In summary - a great game and worthy of a replay if you only played it 2 years ago on the original 
 xbox like i did. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wotchadec
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 27, 2008 2:01 pm PT
Review:  The orange box is a 5-in-1 game, featuring Half life 2, half life 2 ep 1 & 2, team fortress 2 and 
 portal. Half-life 2 and it's episodes were a little hard for me, but they still keep me addicted 
 for hours. However, it is the other 2 games featured in the orange box that I wish to talk about 
 for now.
  Team Fortress 2 is an online FPS - Purely online. It has brilliant gameplay, as do most online 
 games. It's a shame that it features only 5 maps, most of the time only 2 being selected in online 
 modes. Despite this, it offers an amazing amount of gameplay. The cartoony graphics aren't everybody's 
 taste, but it's quite comical to see somebody set alight when you cook them to death with a flamethrower. 
 The weapons in the games can be accessed through certain classes, some having certain powers. For 
 example, a spy has the ability to disguise as the enemy and sneak past unnoticed. Some have more 
 powerful weapons, but are noticeably slower or weaker in armour, or ranged. But classes offer an 
 amazing range of originality for all FPS, allowing you to shape what kind of gamer you are. Whether 
 you prefer to go hell for leather and blow up everything that moves, or prefer to sneak past quietly 
 and take the enemy from the backlines.
  But perhaps the best game in the orange box, portal, is a puzzle game that is not only highly addictive, 
 but highly original. The basic setting is that you wake up in a science lab which has levels, and 
 in order to get to the next level you must use a portal gun to shoot portals to access other parts 
 of the levels without dying, or accessing other parts of levels. There's an amazing amount of things 
 you can do with the portals, like creating "never ending holes" and shortcuts throughout levels. 
 The levels, ofcourse, get progressively harder, introducing switches and enemies to the game. The 
 gameplay is, like team fortress 2, excellent. The visuals are pretty good, sounds are ok, and themes 
 are excellent if you love those "Robots gone wrong" genres. Overall, the orange box offers a wealth 
 of gaming, and is brilliant value for money. If, like me, you have never played any of the games 
 featured in the orange box, this is an essential. Even if not, the 2 games team fortress 2 and 
 portal are worth the money on their own.
  
  Gameplay - 10
  Visuals - 9
  Sound - 8
  Value - 10
  Tilt - 9
  
  Overall - 9 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ninjacat11
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 26, 2008 10:41 am PT
Review:  The Orange Box is one of the greatest bargains you will find on the PS3. It comes packed with one 
 of the greatest games of all time, Half-Life 2; it's episodic "sequels"; multiplayer shooter Team 
 Fortress 2; and ingenious puzzler Portal.
  
  If you've been living in a cave for the past few years and have never played Half-Life 2, you owe 
 it to yourself to buy this game and get introduced to it. I'm a HL2 noob and I'm only as far as 
 Route Kanal right now, but from what I've played, I'm confused why I didn't get it earlier.
  
  I haven't gotten to either episode yet, so I can't review those.
  
  Team Fortress 2 is 
 simply the most addictive multiplayer shooter I've ever played. Once you play your first game of 
 it, you simply can't stop. The balance between the classes is admirable. I haven't noticed any 
 lag yet.
  
  As great as HL2 and Team Fortress are, they can simply not match up to the pure awesomanium that 
 is Portal. Portal is one of the most addictive and purely fun games I've played in a long while. 
 The puzzles are expertly crafted and the extremely short playing time makes for some excellent 
 pacing. What I didn't expect was some truly great dark humor and the greatest ending of all time. 
 
  
  Are there flaws in this game? Sure. It's got some pretty horrid loading times and slowdown. They're 
 annoying, but they never really get in the way of the game itself.
  
  In short, you'd have to either be insane or an absolute ignoramus to not rush out to your nearest 
 store and buy this game right now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: braindead_hero
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 22, 2008 11:59 am PT
Review:  I'm going to start this review of Valve's Orange Box (PS3 version) by 
  simply saying this is probably the bargain of the century.
  
  
  Five Games, One Box. That 
 is quite a bold claim for any game developer 
  to make. If you've played any games which claim to have several games 
  on one disc, cart ect. 
 then you may be dubious at first about this 
  claim. Don't worry, these are five full games, that's right FULL games. 
  Not a collection of 
 short games, not one good game, four mini-games, 
  FIVE FULL GAMES, also these are five bloody good games.
  
  HALF-LIFE 2 + EPISODES 1 AND 2
 
  
  What can I say that hasn't already been said about HL2? You play as 
  everybody's favourite mute, Gordon Freeman. I'm not going to go on all 
  about the story, that's 
 something you're going to have to find out 
  about for yourself by playing the game. This is a first person shooter 
  (as if I had to tell 
 you) which pits you in an expansive city and 
  surrounding areas against a variety of enemies. The environments look 
  very good and create 
 a great mood for the game and sticks to it really 
  well, with very good graphics (even though we know PS3 can do better) 
  create an immersive believable 
 world. The enemies are all fairly 
  familiar without being dull, 'copy-and-paste' enemies you may find in 
  other games until you 
 get into episode 2 which throws some new enemies 
  into the mix who are inventive, fearsome and deadly. This game has kept 
  me interested and on 
 edge with a brilliant plot in a great atmosphere 
  so it's not surprising HL2 has the recognition and acclaim.
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2
  
  Team 
 Fortress 2 is an online only multiplayer third person shooter. 
  This is a very good multiplayer game with some pretty good and fairly 
  varied maps and a collection 
 of different character classes. This is 
  really a shooter for someone with a fairly short attention span who 
  doesn't want any story 
 and no fancy twists of gimmicks, someone who 
  just wants to jump directly into 'pwning n00bz'. Which is an urge we've 
  all felt at times. 
 It's a pretty solid game with very good, cartoon 
  style graphics but it wasn't as involved as I would have liked, this is 
  probably because no 
 one else had a bluetooth headset enabled so the 
  team could not communicate which would have given a better sense of 
  community, and isn't that 
 the whole point in online games? Also I had 
  some connection problems with getting online but I would imagine that 
  is down to the PSN rather 
 than the game. It's a pretty fun game which 
  can keep you amused for short periods of time but doesn't seem to have 
  a huge lifespan (maybe 
 thats because of the games I've played, so if 
  anyone with a bluetooth headset wants to show me otherwise feel free to 
  challenge me to a game)
 
  
  PORTAL
  
  Portal is a game that I had not heard a great deal about and was not 
  really expecting all that much out of, but personally I think this game 
  is pure genius. Once 
 you get your head around what exactly a portal is 
  and get the fully powered up portal gun you will love this inventive, 
  dark and frankly hilarious 
 game and you will want to play it to the end 
  to get the cake (and probably several more times, as well as the extras 
  such as advanced mode, 
 time trial mode ect.) I will easily recommend 
  this game to anyone, although it is short, this alone almost makes up 
  for the price of the 
 disc and only makes you want to ask one thing; 
  when's the next one?
  
  Overall The Orange Box is a very clever collection of great games which 
  will keep you playing 
 for hours and hours, and always wanting more, 
  without feeling that the game is too shallow. Anyone who doesn't own 
  Half-Life 2 should buy 
 it now, anyone who has Half-Life 2 but doesn't 
  have the Episodes should buy it now. In fact anyone who simply hasn't 
  played Portal or is just 
 bored of shooters with no real depth or story 
  should get this game and I challenge anyone to not find the turrets in 
  Portal adorable (you'll 
 understand when you get this game) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: heyhamburgerpim
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 19, 2008 3:26 pm PT
Review:  Next-generation consoles are disappointing. There, I said it. The good times aren't all that good. 
 We spend nearly a bill on a shiny black box, we get huge, powerful processors manipulating mountains 
 of data from capacious storage media like Blu-Ray discs, and yes, people look super-real (unless 
 we're talking about Tony Hawk's Proving Ground) and water and snow look like water and snow, but... 
 what happened to games that had some longevity? That took some time and effort to beat? Did they 
 disappear along with the 16-bitters? I mean, even the baddest-arse looking game is only of so much 
 value to me if, even with minimal effort, I only look at it for six or eight hours before the final 
 credits roll (Uncharted and COD4, are you listening?) .
  
  This is why, even with its frame rate issues and often-slow load-times, The Orange Box is a more-than-satisfying 
 purchase for this grizzled old codger. With five games under its hood, including one of the most 
 conceptually-original games to be released in the last five years (Portal) , I finally didn't feel 
 like a sucker shelling out $60 for a single game. The three Half-Life 2 games are exceptional, 
 with storylines and atmospherics ranging from Ray Bradbury to Resident Evil. Even for somebody 
 long burnt out on FPS-type games, Half-Life 2's puzzling missions, difficult gameplay, and incredibly 
 deep environments kept the "holy crap!" factor very high with each successive mission. You know 
 a game is great when, even after dying fifteen times trying to complete a mission, you're still 
 intrigued by it; that's Half-Life 2 in a nutshell. And the best part about it was that, in addition 
 to its highly-detailed and interactive environments and excellent sound design, somebody actually 
 remembered to make Half-Life 2 immersive and challenging enough that you can't beat it in a single 
 sitting. Thank you, thank you, thank you!
  
  Sure, the game has some technical shortcomings (which, ironically, hearken back to the old 16-bit 
 systems too) , like the load times and the frame-rate jitters. My only other bone of contention 
 with TOB is the lack of a non-online Multiplayer game. Don't get me wrong -- Team Fortress 2 is 
 probably the finest shoot-em-up I've played yet on the PS3 (or PS2) , but it would be a lot of fun 
 to play the other folks sitting in the same room as I am, too.
  
  All things considered, I'm glad I didn't let the fear of some minor systems issues keep me from 
 picking up what I will say is the best game in my PS3 collection to date. If you're tired of paying 
 $60 for one-day outing at best, The Orange Box will give you a good, long run for your money. Game 
 developers, we're no longer fooled: we CAN have excellent graphics AND huge environments and stories 
 in our next-gen games! We'll settle for nothing less!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: kiire18
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 11, 2008 3:02 am PT
Review:  Portal
  Dosent have any glitches, no lag at all. Dont sit there and think. Dont hesitate, theres absolutely 
 no mistakes in ps3s version of portal!! Very impressive game, i enjoyed the 19th level of this 
 game. And after you finish the story mode, you unlock bonus levels, which you can complete by choosing 
 between different options, least portals, least time etc
  
  
  TF2 
  
  Unbelievable, unbeatable, i was totally blowed away, very fun. Ok, so i try to calm down a bit, 
 but this dosent mean that i over reacted. This game is all that and even more. I have played TF 
 before and it was fun but when i got my hands on Team Fortress 2, my first reaction was like when 
 i first time played GTA . SO many oppurtunitys (options) . Im having so much fun, for example when 
 you press square, you make your character to dance, and try to switch weapon and then again press 
 square, he reacts everytime differntly. Theres so many characters to choose. I name a few Spy, 
 engineer, pyro, demoman, sniper guy, medic, etc. You can hear developers commentary, who hasent 
 heard Gabe newell voice before, then theres your chance, and you can get to know which character 
 he likes the most. And talking more about options, as a spy you can disguise yourself. As engineer 
 you are able to built sentry gun (like before) , dispenser, which gives you a life boost and metal 
 to upgrade your gun, and ofcourse the portals!. Theres various maps, which aint very big, you can 
 play areas take over, or briefcase stealing etc. 
  
  And i have to say that this game is awesome, its just sad that it has this huge online problems, 
 lag, online disconnects, etc, but as long as those few smooth minutes last, its a true blast!, 
 and btw if you play over 3 and half hour, then it might want to freez. 
  
  
  
  Half Life 2
  
  Yes, its still the same Half Life 2 you are used to, same good graphics, no 
 glitches appear to be, no fps problem! Gameplay is very well done, for example you can change horizontal 
 and vertical turning speed to your liking. Its easy to aim your weapone to enemys head, Gordon 
 dosent have any issue to carry multiple weapons, as you progress you are going to get very cool 
 guns, including gravity gun, pistol, 6 shooter, crossbow, and ofcours explosives like grenades. 
 
  So many reviewers have described its story, so im not gonna repeat it. I just say, that i truly 
 started to care, i truly wanted to know whats going to happen next. I cared about dog, Alyx, his 
 dad, they all are very loveable characters and done with very terrific voice acting. I love how 
 valve has made this game to tell its story, and thats why i sometimes even forgot that im playing, 
 i like how theres some cinematical shows, sometimes while you can still move (control your character) 
 theres many objectives moving on screen at the same time, its truly amazing, very spectacular, 
 thats when i feel like im part of the big story. I got a tell you theres never a dull moment in 
 Half Life 2. And the ps3 version of this game never didnt crash. 
  
  
  
  Half life 2: episode 1
  The gameplay remains the same, theres absolutety no changes here. Graphically, 
 you ofcourse will notice even spectacular visuals than in the original Half life 2. I was positively 
 surprised, i didnt notice any glitches, there really aint special fps flaws to cry about, not at 
 all, game runs smoothly from the beginning to the very end of episode 1.
  
  Half Life 2: epsiode 2
  
  So, this time yeah, you will notice in ps3s version of this game 
 some fps fallings but those were like hiccups, sometimes you will notice, especially when you are 
 driving with your car but most the playing time you wont!
  Hehe, its outstanding visuals, were the best in the series, very well done, I like this game so 
 much, i guarantee that You are going to enjoy it!
  
  If you havent played Half life 2 and its episodes before, then go get this game, if you want to 
 notice the glitches, yeah, go ahead. But those bad sides surely dosent make game like this unplayable. 
 It dosent break anything, games which Orange Box includes run just fine. With Orange Box you will 
 be entertained for weeks to come. Now, if this game dosent deserve atleast 9.0. which game does? 
 Here comes because of the TF2s freezing thing, huge online issues and half life 2 espisode 2 fps 
 hiccups a 9.0!! 
  
  Wake up Mr Freeman, wake up and smell the ashes...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 15, 2008 3:24 am PT
Review:  5 games for the price of 1? Yes please!
  
  That's exactly what you get with The Orange Box. 5 great games in one neat, well presented package; 
 Half-Life 2, Half-Life 2 : Episode 1 and Episode 2, Portal and Team Fortress 2.
  
  First off you have Half-Life 2, arguably the greatest FPS of all time. Fantastically deep and engaging 
 story, driven by amazing storytelling and lovable characters to whom you find yourself caring about 
 immensely as you progress in the game and find out more about them and their personality.
  
  The game plays great, its not your brainless "lets shoot everything that moves and get to the 
 next level" type of shooter, oh no. This is a very thoughtful and deep FPS game. Yes, you have 
 a host of impressive weapons (most impressive being the Gravity Gun of course) but this game will 
 make you use your head quite alot, which is a great thing, and allows a great balance between action 
 and strategy.
  
  It just an awesome game. Tons of fun to play, its witty, charming, compelling, atmospheric and 
 a masterpiece in gaming. Everyone needs to play this, even if your not a fan of FPS games. It's 
 worth the price of the Box alone.
  
  Moving onto Portal. This is quite simply put, genius.
  The premise of the game is very simple. 
 Use the portal gun to shoot an entry portal and an exit portal, and walk though them to make your 
 way though the levels... sounds simple right? This is a case of simple in theory hard in practice.
 
  
  Though the game may be short, that certainly does not take anything away from the raw genius and 
 fantastic gameplay it provides to you. The game is funny, ingenious and just a hell of alot of 
 fun to play. Truly a landmark in terms of technological achievement. Pure genius.
  
  Last, but not least, we have the online only multiplayer FPS; Team Fortress 2. With its cel-shaded 
 comic style approach, you may be forgiven into thinking this is not one for serious or hardcore 
 FPS fans. Well, it is.
  
  The game is fast, frantic and furious. Great fun to play online. Only one issue I have came across, 
 which is that it may lag for a second of too when alot of things are happening on screen at once. 
 However since this is an online game, it can beforgiven. It's only ever happened to me once, and 
 only for about 3 seconds.
  
  Alot of reviews from websites have complained that the PS3 version of Half-Life 2 contains alot 
 of lag, thus slowing down the experience. I can honestly say that its not the case. The game plays 
 smoothly, the only time it may "lag" is when its loading for another level but that's expected, 
 its loading another level during gameplay after all.
  
  Putting all these great games together, you got a fantastic package of FPS, strategy, online multiplayer, 
 fun, humour, and an all around awesome gaming experience that you shouldn't miss out on. A must 
 buy.
  
  --Dave -- 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jawshoeuh
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 13, 2008 4:21 pm PT
Review:  The thing that's getting me about half life 2 is the pacing. It is long winded. I tend to lose 
 my focus. Maybe I have a low attention span, but the single player campaigns (some of the vehicle 
 sequences especially) just seem to last forever. In one way this is a good thing, as it helps give 
 you the sensation that you're running through this huge, open world and it's kind of like an epic 
 novel playing out. I guess after putting in a lot of hours on the campaigns in hl2, ep1, and ep2, 
 I keep finding myself thinking "jeez isn't this over yet?" Seriously enough headcrabs already. 
 Maybe what I'm noticing is that it seems more like I'm playing an rpg, but with none of the rewards 
 of building up your character substantially over time.
  
  Performance wise, I have played it on pc and 360 and I didn't notice anything. The load times are 
 long, but I couldn't say they felt substantially longer than either other platform. I guess it's 
 hard to tell if you aren't playing them side by side or one right after the other, but I thought 
 it ran comparably on my ps3. So overall it's an excellent game, great universe and story, cool 
 weapons and environment interplay, all that **** But I just keep getting bored and wanting to put 
 in COD4 or Unreal 3 rather than complete the campaigns in all the episodes. Everything is awesome, 
 but it just seems like it's dragging to me.
  
  Portal is a really awesome concept, and a lot of fun, but short. I wouldn't pay $60 for it on it's 
 own for sure.
  
  Team fortress 2 is good multiplayer action and definitely unique, but after a little while playing 
 it, I usually had the urge to leave and go join my friends in COD4. In the end I appreciate how 
 good the package is, but I have to say as I've been playing it that the call of my other games 
 has been too strong. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 13, 2008 11:08 am PT
Review:  Well first thing i must say before i begin reviewing this game please take into account i have 
 played both the PS3 and PC version.
  
  The Orange Box is probably the best deal you will ever get on a video game, 5 games for the price 
 of 1 how could you possibly resist? If you have been put off by all the reviews on frame rate issues 
 and lag i can definitely say that they are all bias. 
  
  Game play: same solid game play from Half Life 1. Its not just your average FPS so its not all 
 run and gun but use your wits to find out where to go next. The overall game is thrilling. 
  
  Portal is genius! It has humor and its a puzzle game that i can get stuck into to. However 
 you may get a bit sick after a while =)
  
  Episodes 1 and 2 are great but episode 1 is really short unfortunately. Episode 2 is fast paced 
 and touching with a powerful ending.
  
  Team Fortress is where you will be spending most of your time though. The multi player is great 
 and has more variety than most online shooters. There is a small amount of lag but its hardly noticeable. 
 I find Team Fortress on the PS3 better than the PC version because most servers in the PC version 
 are just spam parties which can get very annoying.
  
  Graphics: The Half Life graphics are slightly outdated but it looks much better on the PS3 than 
 certain computers. Team Fortress looks particularly good with the nice cartoony graphics.
  
  Sound: music is great, it has a fast pace and works really well when taking out swarms of combine 
 soldiers. Team Fortress has small amounts of humor where Portal will have you cracking up all the 
 time.
  
  Overall: This version is not that inferior to any other versions there are only small amounts of 
 lag and slowdown so i wont be giving this a 10 unfortunately. Its 5 games in 1 so how could you 
 possibly resist?
  
  Score: 9/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ChargingPenguin
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 12, 2008 8:12 am PT
Review:  I've been a half life'er for a long time.. getting waxed on my 28.8 modem vs. the new DSL adopters 
 :) Once I loaded the orange box for my ps3 it took about 30min to get used to the differences on 
 the console, but soon after it was all good. This game is worth the $. In fact, it should be one 
 of the first games everyone gets due to the overall value. Many games in one little orange box 
 :) 
  
  As for the 5 games in one:
  
  1) I like the story line beind half life 2, episod 1 and episod 2. This alone is woth the $$. Awesome 
 value just due to the fact it will take you forver to finish (huge game) and you'll be happy with 
 it.
  
  2) Portal is one of the biggest surprises, and a gerat addition. An on-line protal would have been 
 cool. 
  
  3) Team Fortress 2 is different that what I'm used to in my PC's team deathmatch. I'm not sure 
 what to thing of the cartoon'ish display. I think this is just due to the fact I'm an oldschool 
 half_lifer. all in all, I like it!
  
  The only thing that I could ask for would have been gary's mod :) but I feel bad even asking for 
 more in this game.
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: A3trix
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 22, 2008 9:06 pm PT
Review:  As said in the review deck, this game masters every concept you could want in a video game and 
 bundles it all itno one convient package with 5 awesome games!!! I guess the guys at Valve weren't 
 planning on putting half of the games in it now as there were only going to be Half Life... but 
 thank god they did! 
  
  I'll start with the "havoc physics" made masterpiece which some have already played... Half Life 
 2. This involves you a professer onto something extremely extroadinary when, everything just seems 
 to go wrong! you play as Gordon Freeman an a former scientist who somehow manges to open a portal 
 to a different dimension, and you must save City 17 from the combine. The real fun of the game 
 comes in when you acess the Gravity Gun, which can literally catch grenades in mid air and throw 
 them back, and throw just about anything at you enemys... Despite this all of the other guns fit 
 in there part and make the game a whole lot more interesting and strategical when using them. On 
 the down side, the AI of some of your teammates and such can be a bit iffy. If you are in the middle 
 of a fight in some corridor or are trying to move down a hallway quickly, your teammates fighting 
 along easily get in the way making where you want to go an annoying process. The loading times 
 (at least on the PS3) are a bit aggravating. Your in a whole bunch of action and then it just stops 
 for a good few minutes. Its like it needs to update your PS3!!! Overall this is probably one of 
 the best FPS's i have ever played, but if you want a smooth experience with HL2, Hl2 ep 1, and 
 Hl2 ep 2... get this on your PC.
  
  Now along comes a game with a bunch of hype before the release of the Ornage Box... Valves little 
 present to all of us... Portal! If you have played the flash version you can pretty much understand 
 what the gameplay is based on, but supplying in a first person view, and crazy new puzzles is great! 
 You wake up in a very odd holding chamber at a science lab called Aperature by an annyoing little 
 robo voice that guides you and plays tricks on you throughout each level of the game. The conflict 
 of the game is to get passed each level using a portal gun that shoots an entry and exit portal 
 in the same room almost anywhere. this game applys great physics, gravity, and an easy feel. Don't 
 worry about it being to hard... the whole first two parts to the story are mainly tutorials. If 
 your one of those people who get a little frustrated about not knowing what to do... don't take 
 a second glance at this game. Many times throughout the stroy you find yourself trying to make 
 things work. Overall this is one great game, which is truly ambitious... i can't wait to see if 
 Valve expands upon this title!
  
  Lastly and one of the main reasons I bought this game is for, Team Fortress 2! Right off the bat 
 i'll tell you that there is absolutly ZERO story! this strictly a mutiplayer game only. You don't 
 need to do anything but transfer your PSn stuff to EA Online when you first start and its fast 
 and easy. Its divided into the basic catagories of gameplay Attack/Defend (onslaught) and mainly 
 CTF... There are honestly not that very many servers up, so i hope you don't mind playing one of 
 the same maps over and over, known as 2Fort just because they are mostly map voting and everyone 
 picks it! You can either find a custom game to your liking or just get thrown into a game in Quick 
 Match. I don't see how its possible to get bored on this game with all the different classes to 
 master including the Scout: fast running, bat wielding, shotgun guru, Pyro: Flame thrower... enough 
 said, Soldier: Rocket launcher, shotgun, shovel, The one that was most advertised the Heavy: Big 
 gunning defense man with very slow movement, but a fatal looking stampedee gun, Mechanic: Builds 
 sentrys that shoot enemys on sight, funny to hit others with wrench! Demoman: Grenade launcher, 
 destroys enemy sentrys, Sniper: Eveyone knows what he does and he has a machete! Medic: unique 
 little doctor who heals others and builds up a charge with his gun that can turn him and another 
 invulnerable, he also comes equipped with a needle gun and saw, and lastly the Spy. This guy deserves 
 a whole sentence to himself because he is truly the most played character in this game! The spy 
 is a suave looking man in a tux and black mask who carries around a ciggarette case full of tricks, 
 a zapper, and a butterfly knive. The Ciggarette case is mainly ised to turn into an enemy of any 
 class for an unlimited amount of time, but as soon as you attack you turn back, so don't miss. 
 You can also turn invisible to get across a highly occpied area and do a little ka! ka!!! On someone, 
 but you can't attack while invisible. You can backstab loads of people and is a clever way of killing 
 an enemy wreaking havoc on your teammates. This game is a bit rdeneck kinda based with the characters 
 looks, and may not have alot of customization to offer, but its truly unique and offers a class 
 everyone may like. And with free online play this game can become addictive, but wait it tracks 
 how long, how many kills, and other statistics in each match. 
  
  If you have seen any of my other reviews they are all very high up in the 9s and 10s, but thats 
 just the way i see them to be and all of this years games are truly remarkable. Pick this game 
 up if it seems interesting to you, but trust be theres bound to be a game you like in a 5 in 1 
 package! Thanks for viewing! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: finishedmagicks
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 4:42 pm PT
Review:  I don't understand why xbox/ps3 fanboys have to judge games by their graphics, thats not the most 
 inportant aspect of games, its the gameplay that matters the most, graphics are slightly less important. 
 The Orange Box is an excellent game, no matter what system you get it for. Why do all you sony 
 fanboys have to say stuff like "Ps3 owners have the boot, and 360 owners get the boot in their 
 butts" FACE IT!, you can't stop 360 owners from getting the 360 version of The Orange box. Nor 
 can the 360 fanboys stop the ps3 owners from getting the ps3 version. Every system including the 
 PC has their ups and downs. here they are...
  
  Xbox 360: Pros: Faster load times, excellent online service. Achievement system. Cons: Graphics 
 are not quite as good as the Ps3s and PCs versions
  
  PC: Pros: Smoother framerate, easier to aim due to the mouse runs on steam (positive) Cons: Runs 
 on steam (negative) , first 2 pros assume that you have at least a PC that can run the game. Requires 
 a LOT of money to get a high end gaming PC.
  
  Ps3: Pros: Superior Graphics. Cons: load times take at least 3 seconds longer, not sure if theres 
 any kind of achievement system.
  
  All im saying is that you should buy the game for the system that YOU want it to be, not for the 
 the system that you think is better than the other. As for me, I chose to get The Orange Box for 
 the 360, and its not because im an ignorant fanboy who thinks the Ps3 version sucks and so as anyone 
 who gets the game for it, I respect their choice. I just chose the game for the 360 so that me 
 and my friends can enjoy it together over Xbox live 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RyanMillerCEO
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 9, 2008 1:42 pm PT
Review:  Yeah, I know that quote has very little to do with this game, or the Half Life series. I suppose 
 you could make the argument that it's applicable in some stages of Half Life, Half Life 2, Episodes 
 I & II, and Team Fortress, but it's not what I'm driving at. 
  For all the things I have always loved about Half Life there is this one glaring thing that I hate. 
 No matter how much time they spend trying to convince me that Dr Gordon Freeman looks sort of like 
 an older me with glasses, I cannot suspend my disbelief. When I take control of the Dr Gordon Freeman, 
 all I can see is Dr Morgan Freeman. Strolling along with a funny hat on over the HEV suit, rambling 
 on about penguins. Every time I inadvertantly push the poor Doctor into some swarm of antlions 
 and he falls helplessly to the ground, the narrator in my head says ' they put you in here for 
 life, and that's exactly what they take.' 
  
  The good news is, once I have come to terms with the fact that Morgan Freeman is going to save 
 the world from aliens from Xen, (it's not that much of a stretch - he already basically did it 
 in Deep Impact,) then I can get back to what I love about Half Life. Basically, everything. 
  
  I think the storyline across the franchise is good, and engaging. The gameplay mechanics are 
 fantastic. And while it is a bit smoother on the PC, I've had only minimal frame rate problems 
 on my PS3 version of the Orange Box, and it's a great addition to my collection. 
  
  On their own, each of these games would be worth the money. All 5 of them together is just ludicrous. 
 What Valve has done by packaging this much content into one box is piss me off. That's right, it 
 pisses me off. Every time I spend $60 on a new game, I will think to myself right as I beat it, 
 "self, you know full well they could have fit another 10 hours of gameplay on that disc. Orange 
 Box did it, so should they...." Valve has spoiled me, setting an unfair standard for content squeezed 
 into one game. 
  
  I honestly would have paid full price just for Portal. In the future, I will pay full price for 
 the Aperture Science Artificial Intelligence Voice Modulator Home Security Companion System, when 
 Valve makes her available for private consumption in (insert my home town here.)
  
  Although it's been said, many times... many ways: this is the best gaming value in the history 
 of gaming. And this comes from a guy who bought a friends SNES System with 30 games for $40 in 
 the '90s. I think with the Orange Box, I got a better deal. 
  
  "The world is a fine place, and worth fighting for. I agree with the second part." - Dr Morgan 
 Freeman. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 15, 2008 5:47 am PT
Review:  With the next generation war in full swing, it seems that certain aspects of what video games were 
 supposed to be about are missing at times: "good game play." Again, only at times. Its not just 
 the great graphics and the systems, but "good game play." With The Orange Box, that's exactly what 
 you are getting. Great story and good game play from a total of five different games.
  
  Anyone who has stuck with the Half Life series needs to be a part of this experience. Five games 
 for the price of one; all of which are top games with good visual effects. It is good to see Half 
 Life come to a next generation console, and with some brand new installments included. Half Life 
 2: episode 2, Team Fortress and Portal are very good games, so it all comes together in fine fashion. 
 
  
  As the new year progresses I hope more games come along with the same mind set involved: "good 
 game play." It is what made video games what they were in the beginning: fun. The Orange Box is 
 all around fun, a must have for any PS3 owner. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: dEtHsLaYeR
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 6, 2008 5:25 pm PT
Review:  Like I said in the review deck.... i just cant hook on to this game. When you get to the few seconds 
 of shooting the civil protection or some monsters, its ok, but the rest is just trying to figure 
 out where to go. 
  Dont get me wrong... the gravity gun is awesome, i love shooting stuff off the ground at people. 
 Thats fun. It just... gets old. And portal.... and team fortress 2.... arent even worth it. portal 
 is funny? well, sometimes, i can smile, like i do in every game, but, its not hilarious. and team 
 fortress 2..... eh speaks for itself.
  
  Im sorry, and im sure im going to get a bunch of thumbs down for this, but this aint my type of 
 action fps. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LocalMotion
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 4, 2008 8:47 am PT
Review:  Oh wow plenty 360Fanboys but we blow them away brah!!! 
  
  I use to play the original Team Fortress on PC years ago so of course I was excited to find out 
 it was coming to the PS3. I picked it up at BestBuy for $39.99, it was on sale for $49.99 and then 
 I used the $10.00 off coupon from some package Sony mailed me about the PS3. 
  
  I held off on buying Orange Box because of all the negative reviews I've been reading about the 
 game. (I regret waiting) I really don't care for any of the games except for Team Fortress 2, this 
 game alone was the reason I bought Orange Box. 
  
  After playing TF2 for 6 hours straight last night I really can't see why so many people are calling 
 the game broken! Yes there was some load time before the game started but no different then being 
 on the PC when loading a map before you play the game. (By the way the load time wasn't even that 
 long)
  There was a bit of lag a couple times but only in the beginning of a match while people were joining 
 teams. The game never lagged on me while I was playing. Maybe the people complaining about lag 
 are playing on a DSL connection or have a weak WiFi signal.
  
  For me TF2 is a nice Comic Relief when I get too caught up in COD4. Oh that reminds me, people 
 also complain about not having a open mic setup in TF2 but who cares. With the open mic all i keep 
 hearing is people talking all kinds of garbage. 
  Quote from Gamespot Halo3 review 
  The Bad - "Inevitable flood of prepubescent online players sure to hamper your enjoyment of the 
 online modes. "
  
  
  Bottom Line: Of course you heard this but, If everyone jumped off a cliff would you? Don't listen 
 to what people are saying if you want this game get it play it and enjoy it. 
  
  It's a good thing the PS3 is black since it looks like we're considered the Black Sheep of the 
 gaming community. Ah no worries tho I'm use to being the Black Sheep!
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: beatlebug101
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 6:30 pm PT
Review:  
  The Orange Box is a very neat idea for a game. If you have not heard of this title, then let me 
 fill you in. In the Orange Box there are five full length games. 1-Half Life 2
  2-Half Life 2 : Episode one
  3-Half Life 2 : Episode Two
  4-Portal
  5-Team Fortress
  
 
  All three of the Half Life games included are very well done.
  They all include great graphical designs, amazing cinematics and a story that will leave you saying... 
 WOW. The gameplay is fluid, and they all have plenty of frame rates per second.
  
  
  The fourth game on the Orange Box is called Portal. This game is basically a brain power style 
 puzzle game. In the game you use a gun that shoots two types of portals, One sends you somewhere, 
 and the other takes you to the place the first one sent you. This game also has great graphics 
 and fluid gameplay. But i was a little disapointed at the fact that there was no real story to 
 the game.
  
  
  Last but certainly not least is the game named "Team Fortress" . This game is pretty speacial because 
 it took so long for the developers to make. I found this game to be very interesting due to its 
 unique and slightly funny cartoon graphics. The game is a great multiplayer and online game. 
 
  
  The "Orange Box" is definitly a close to perfect game that you should add to your collection. I 
 give this game a 9.8 out of 10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_smoke_666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 3, 2008 1:54 am PT
Review:  What do you get when you mix Innovation, the best of the best and a multilayer game worthy of 100's 
 of hours of game play? THE ORANGE BOX ! ! ! the whole box contains Half Life 2 (one of if not the 
 best FPS's ever made even to this day) , Half Life2 ep1 (the next installment to the best FPS ever) , 
 Half Life2 ep2 (yet another installment to the best FPS ever) , Portal (one of the most innovative 
 and hilarious games ever made) and finally Team Fortress (a combination of team, strategic mayhem 
 combined into a solid multi player game) .
  
  let me just start out by saying there is not a bit of unacceptable lag what i mean is there may 
 be a point or two when the frame rate dips ever so slightly however this by no means makes the 
 game unplayable at all.
  
  HALF LIFE 2 + Ep1 and 2:
  
  The game that set the bar for First Person Shooters as of 2004 has been ported to PS3 in all its 
 glory.
  
  The style of the game play is gripping suspense filled sci-fi horror that just leaks coolness.
 
  
  To tell the truth i put off playing past the first few chapters of HL2 because i just plain hate 
 zombies but once i got into slaughtering hordes of zombies with a saw blade and literally relieving 
 them of the bottom half of there bodies i found fun instead of fear there is just a certain satisfaction 
 in it.
  
  HL2s graphics are superb thanks to the good ol' source engine and the levels are cluttered with 
 interactive objects 
  
  This game is a triumph in gaming if you don't play it at least once in your gaming life then you 
 honestly do not deserve to call yourself gamer. bottom line PLAY IT
  
  PORTAL:
  
  When you hear about portal for the first time you may be a tad underwhelmed i mean the concept 
 of intra dimensional portals being used to zip around levels and throw yourself over distances 
 isn't that exciting in fact you really have to experience the game first hand to truly appreciate 
 exactly how amazing this game is.
  
  The voice acting in this game is right up there with the best of them with the voice of GLaDOS 
 (the only other character in the game who is actually a computer) being particularly hilarious. 
 however the trend of Half Life continues with this game as the main character never speaks.
  
  Portal is funny innovative and all around awesome an instant classic that is completely original 
 literally you will not find another game like it.
  
  TEAM FORTRESS 2:
  
  A multi player game that brings in squad combat and strategic game play into the arena of online 
 FPS's how the game goes on to either your victory or defeat depends on which class you select. 
 you can pick one class out of pyro, engineer, spy, heavy, sniper, scout, soldier, demo man and 
 medic.
  
  although i have only played it once if i had a better internet and a headset i would play it online 
 a lot so i cant really give a good review of this particular section of The Orange Box other than 
 that brief skeleton.
  
  So in conclusion you would be simply insane to pass up the greatest gaming deal ever so simply 
 go out to your local game shop and pick it up you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sdgates
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 6:20 pm PT
Review:  It is beyond me how a game like this gets a 9 while Uncharted gets an 8. All three of the Half 
 Life games have a decent story but are horrible ports riddled with endless load screens, below 
 average graphics and lag problems that get worse the further you get into the game. There are a 
 lot of arguments about the amount of content for the money but for e that is like giving 4 stars 
 to a Taco Bell because you get a get a lot of food and you ignore that the fact it is not any good. 
 Team Fortress gets boring very quickly and you rarely have more than 3 or 4 people in a game so 
 it isn't much fun. Portal is the best of the bunch and is a fun and original game that is worth 
 checking out. For me this getting this got a 9 because the reviewers are blinded by the halo of 
 the original game and how ahead advanced it was when it came out years ago. If you come at this 
 with fresh eyes you will not find this be anywhere nearly that satisfying of an experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TheMach_5
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 31, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  The Orange box includes Half life 2, which a first person shooter where you get a gravity gun and 
 can pick up and fling stuff at people, you also get a crow bar and a couple of different guns, 
 it includes a few unique puzzles in the game too.
  It also includes Team Fortress which is online and is a cartoonish first person shooter, where 
 you can choose between several characters that have different weapons and stats, it's odd but fun.
 
  It also includes portal, which you have a portal gun and you can shoot two potals and go through 
 one and out the other, you can also see through the portals, andn you make your way through many 
 puzzles, it sounds boring but it's actually really fun. they keep telling that you will get cake, 
 but really they want to turn you into cake. 
  overall it is really fun and funny sometimes, and you get a lot for your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 31, 2007 6:40 am PT
Review:  Got my game a few days ago, played it and sold it, with one simple personal reason, i getting headaches 
 when playing HL2, but fear not, im not gonna put my personal reasons into this review and i'll 
 try to make it as fair as possible.
  
  So for a starting, this game include 5 games, but i feel it's more like 2 or 3 games only, reason 
 because TF2 was really limited in content. Having played COD4 just before playing this game, this 
 game really had nothing to WOW with.
  
  Tried HL2, felt the word "boring", i've never played before, but the storyline just isn't as interesting 
 a other games to make me continue, as so, did not really went into HL2. For portal it's definately 
 a new kind of gameplay we've yet to seen. But also, it's nothing interesting abt as the storyline 
 isn't there.
  
  Going on to the graphics, what to say? A Decent/good, but again, nothing to WOW at. The graphics 
 for TF2 looks cartoonish as well, makes the game all the more fun, but limited content means ull 
 get tired of it someday.
  
  Storyline wise, like i said, this is a HL2 package, having played other ps3 shooter games, the 
 storyline given is really quite boring, at the very least to me.
  
  All in all, i would say this is nothing to get all hyped up with although it received a 9/10 rating. 
 The HL2 franchaise is used to it's max, but sadly it doesn't interest a gamer like me to continue 
 the game. Portal is good but no storyline as well as the difficulty are sometime brain cracking. 
 TF2 is good, but contents are relli limited. Server by EA are perfect as well. The loading is quite 
 long and frequent, but i see minimal FPS issues.
  But if ur looking to buy this game, i would say look at other titles first. Certainly it won't 
 interest enough of u to complete HL2.
  As a bonus, this score high because of the fact it had lots of single player HL2 series content, 
 but content needs to come with interest as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoneyBags80403
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 7:58 pm PT
Review:  Anyone of these games are so good you could go out and spend 60 dollars for just one of them. But 
 good for you all five come for an amazing price of 60 dollars. The Half-Life is an amazing First 
 Person Shooter and it is absolutely amazing. It makes a very good use of vehicles and you fight 
 against a disrupted government and a band of angry head crab invested zombies. The battle never 
 gets old. A buy. Portal is an amazingly confusing and fun game. It makes you feel like a rat in 
 a maze, but you start to find out that there is more to the maze than just making it to the end. 
 There has been someone there before you and they have some advice in some broken mazes. Tean Fortress 
 2 is an absolutely multiplayer phenomenon. It brings a whole new lever of cartoon violence to life. 
 It brings an amazing use of true teamwork which you will need to win this game. All of these games 
 are AWESOME! I hope this review has persuaded you to chabge your thoughts and buy this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MC13114N
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 5:47 pm PT
Review:  Half Life 2, HL2 Episode 1, HL2 Episode 2, Portal, Team Fortress 2. 
  
  Based on reading the reviews from other sites, I thought the orange box would be unplayable on 
 the ps3. They were wrong. The ps3 has nowhere near the problems that the sites said it had. I had 
 hardly any framerate issues while playing through the whole Half Life 2 series, certainly nothing 
 that other sites complained about. The loading times are a bit long but are still manageable. 
 
  
  Each game could stand alone as a great game and be sold for $50 each! Valve is giving us the deal 
 of the century so you should definitely buy it. I will probably be playing team fortress 2 at the 
 end of 2008 it's so fun. Portal is short but a great puzzle game and very innovative. The half 
 life 2 series is one of the best game stories EVER. I don't know how I'm gonna wait another year 
 for Episode 3 to come out. Multiplayer- check. Story- check. Graphics- check. Gameplay- check. 
 Alyx- check. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: baron1282
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 27, 2007 8:37 pm PT
Review:  Lets face it, if your a proud owner of the PS3 Your getting the boot this year. However, if your 
 an owner of the X-box 360 your getting the boot right up your behind. I never seen the three ring 
 of death on my PS3. Also, it's funny how every game plays better on the X-box 360, when the X-box 
 360 is less powerful as the PS3. The fact of the matter is, No one really takes the time to really 
 look at the PS3 Power, and the X-box boys piss themselfs when they hear about that it can do. So 
 in the end, they have to write up reviews on something to make the PS3 look bad, and the X-box 
 360 look golden.
  
  Orange box Review.
  
  I have this on the PC, and the reason why I got it on the PS3 was because I dislike Steam. I heard 
 about how the X-box 360 was better, and the PS3 port was the scum of the earth. Lets talk about 
 all the lies the X-Box fan boys put out.
  
  1. The frame rate... I have a high end PC, so I know a thing or two about FPS (Frams Per Second) . 
 I can't see any frame rate drop at all in this game, on the PS3. I got into countless gun battles, 
 and can't see anything wrong. 
  
  2. Load times... Cry me a river, the X-box 360 loads a whole 3 seconds faster than the PS3. The 
 360 can do this faster because the graphics had to be turned down a little for the 360 to handle 
 it. (SCORE PS3) .. The PS3 loads just as fast, and at the same load points as the Computer does. 
 (At least my computer, with its 72000RPM hard drive) . I also compaired the two side by side (Sort 
 of my tv is 50 in, my computer has an 17 in wide screen LCD display) . They looked the same, with 
 the PC a little more crisp. (it's the same, but the PC can deliver a higher resolution.)
  
  3. The push to talk button. the Triangle button, wow, because it's so hard for me to push a button 
 real fast to say something (Got to make the people who have to pay money to play online happy) . 
 It does not make the game worse, in fact when I played it on my PC, I had it bound to my mouse 
 for me to push and talk. No big deal.. 
  
  
  The other funny thing, that X-box360 Owners have to deal with, is the game freezeing up on them. 
 Yet it still got an 9.5... LOL, I tell you gamestop is nothing more than X-box fan boys, who are 
 willing to over look the major problems the x-box has, just because they were to cheap to buy a 
 better built PS3. Lets see, my system has.. Built in Wireless Internet (don't have to buy a 100 
 dollar wireless thingy) , Blue Ray (145 dollar upgrade to HD DVD for X-box owners, and it's not 
 even that good of an upgrade) , and my PS3 comes with a 60Gig harddrive and full backward capatableity.. 
 (yes I know sony changed it, but they had too to try and win over X-box fan boys, the PS3 thou 
 is still a hell of a deal) . 
  
  The downsides.. Really just the fact that the X-box360 Fan boys put it down without really playing 
 it on the PS3.
  
  End the end the PS3 Version is the by far the best to get.. Better graphics, and it runs on a better 
 built system. The PC version is the same as this, with load times being the same.. To me there 
 is no difference between this game, and the PC game.. The only thing I wish it would have done, 
 would be to put Keyboard and Mouse control support for the game. Like Unreal Tournament 3 does 
 (SCORE AGAIN for the PS3) . So, yes you will deal with a longer load time (3 sec's more than the 
 x-box 360. :-p) but in the end your getting the better version. PS3 owners don't threat, this game 
 is a 9.5.. Everyone telling you that it sucks, only wishes they can own a PS3. I will agree that 
 so far the X-box 360 is beating the PS3 in terms of more Great games out on the system, but that 
 will change this coming year. Microsoft has already launched it's big game's. They will have nothing 
 to throw at the PS3 when Final Fantasy 13, and Metal Gear Solid 4 comes out, and a ton of more 
 great games the PS3 will offer this coming year.
  
  It just seems like the PS3 and the X-box360 is becoming the new PC vs. Mac wars. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 26, 2007 4:43 am PT
Review:  A game, called "The Orange Box". What's that all about? I mean, an orange box: what's that got 
 to do with anything?
  
  But still, 5 games, all in one box, seems like a good deal:
  
  The three Half-Life games are instant classics. They're very realistic, semi-free-roaming (in that 
 you aren't actually free-roaming, but you feel like you are) , excellent shooters. The graphics 
 are good, the levels are well-designed, and there is very little to point out that is bad.
  
  Portal, which is the reason that I, and many other people, bought this game, is great. A very 
 simple idea, which has been adapted into probably the best puzzle game I've played all year. It's 
 fun, entertaining, hard to get your head round, fun to watch someone else playing on. Basically, 
 it's a great game. Simple controls, great visuals, and an absolutely hilarious soundtrack!
  
  Team Fortress 2, is well... an online shooter. That's all it is, but the cartoon graphics, 
 and traditional stereotypical characters make it a great game. It too is fun, if a bit irritating.
 
  
  The only bad thing about the entire game is that it doesn't have any split screen anywhere throughout 
 it. Also, as said, the frame-rate can break down a bit slightly, but it doesn't bother you. This 
 is one collection that anybody who likes First Person Shooters, or even just puzzles, should buy, 
 and is a great addition to any PS3 collection! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hannagargour
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 26, 2007 3:27 am PT
Review:  The Value of this package certainly hold its wight. Five great games for the price of one. Minor 
 problems aside, its more than a solid package. So far I have completed Portal and Half life 2 and 
 am in the middle of Episode 1.
  
  General negative points: There IS a slight framrate issue, its true but it happens infrequently 
 enough to hardly be noticeable. The only time it was a game killer was one or two instances towards 
 the end of Half Life 2... Which is an aweseom game. The second negative point is the loading times... 
 they can be quite long and an hinder the flow of gameplay. Final point is story. What is going 
 on? Who am I? What am I doing? Who am I killing? and why?
  
  Many player reviews of this title suggest no framerte issues and bearable loading times... but 
 I obviously disagree. We are playing the same game on the same system right?
  
  Positive points: There are five main pros to the orange box... they are Half life 2, Episode 1, 
 episode 2, Portal and Team Fortress 2. All these games are brilliant. Portal has already recieved 
 the recognition it deserves. Even my girlfriend likes the game (which is shocking considering I 
 have to FIGHT to get playstation time :)
  
  This is the first time I ever played the Half Life series and I am certainly impressed. Yes its 
 a FPS... but somehow it feels different to all the others on the market right now. Its not just 
 about killing people and monsters, its also about level design and puzzles which is fresh. You 
 can easily notice the improvements on episode one to Half life 2 and that is to be expected. Graphically 
 its colorfull and sharp. Very nice looking indeed. I actually think it LOOKS better than the 360 
 version... 
  
  I am deducting points for the loading times and framrate issues. This should not be tolerated in 
 this age of gaming. I cant say anythig about the story because I am only half way through the trilogy 
 do it wouldnt be fair. 
  
  Overall, this is an extremely solid package with much bang for buck. But more than that, they are 
 great games. Great FPS with great puzzles and great graphics. The sound design is a little weak 
 on Half Life 2 but works its magic from episode 1 and onwards. Team Fortress two is my favorite 
 multi player and far more enjoyable than other FPS multiplayer in my opinion.
  
  Woth buying. You will be playing for months and months. You will enjoy every step. I wont consider 
 another purchase until I have torn orange box to shreds. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sparticusjoe
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 19, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  Okay, as for all the reviews saying that this game's laggy as hell, I'd just like to point out, 
 you are WRONG. It plays fine on my PS3. I picked it for PS3 a few months back, because having to 
 pay for multiplayer sucks, and TF2 is part of the main reason to buy this package. The game's awesome, 
 but you already know that, so let me just say a few things about the Playstation three version:
 
  
  1. The lag everyone keeps talking about where the framerate dips to 'unplayable levels' hasn't 
 happened to me. At all. I've beaten Episode One and Portal already, and it has never gotten like 
 that.
  
  2. The longer loading times aren't an issue at all. It's about 5 second to quick-load instead of 
 2. Big deal.
  
  All in all, if you own a PS3, you owe it to yourself to play this game. Don't believe the gamespot 
 review for it talking about the 'slideshow-like framerate', because that just doesn't happen. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mr_Flesh
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 17, 2007 12:57 am PT
Review:  There are just so many good things to say about this game... so let's begin.
  
  Graphics: They're good, They are not mind shattering like Unreal 3 but enough to satisfy me that 
 I was playing a next Gen game. I\\\\\\\'m not a graphics crazy so I don\\\\\\\'t have to see the 
 sweat dripping of the main characters stubble. In fact I\\\\\\\'m a big fan of stylized graphics. 
 It\\\\\\\'s what makes me like Ratchet and Clank, Mario, Mark of Kri.... and now I can ad Team Fortress 
 2 to the list. While yes the half life series does have good graphics it\\\\\\\'s team fortress 
 that comes across as eye candy to me. I like that it was taken out of an oppressive war zone and 
 put into something similar to a paint ball house. Between the setting and the style of art I get 
 a very spy vs spy feel from it. I\\\\\\\'m extremely glad it doesn't\\\\\\\'t take it\\\\\\\'elf 
 too serious. I haven\\\\\\\'t noticed any frame rate dip at all. It did dip on me for a sec during 
 portal but nowhere nearly as bad as everyone on the net was making it seem. Story: Half-life series 
 has always been known as the best story driven FPS. Portal\\\\\\\'s story is very funny and is 
 one more gold star for that game. Team Fortress is an online only game so it has none.
  
  Game Play: Portal is by far my favorite of the three in terms of shear fun. It was far too short 
 for my liking, I could easily have played through another ten levels. I even thought of several 
 types of puzzles and intresting elements they didn\\\\\\\'t use. It would be a sin for VALVe to 
 not revisit this concept again. Judging by how well the companion cube plushies sold... I imagine 
 we\\\\\\\'ll see a sequel or an expansion on the idea.... VALVe hit me up I had a million ideas 
 while playing this game. Team Fortress like I said before is a riot. I like that it doesn\\\\\\\'t 
 take itself serious. I find myself laughing as I get fragged again and again. Oneo f this games 
 flaws however is the fact of the small number of players allowed on a given map. 16 vs 16 is simply 
 not enough. I don\\\\\\\'t think any online fps should have fewer than 24 people... especially if 
 it\\\\\\\'s class based. Unreal 3 has this same problem... you fill the leviathan up with 5 people 
 and you only got 3 other people roaming the map. Classes do the same thing. One engineer, one spy, 
 one scout and one or two doctors and it doesn\\\\\\\'t leave you with many actual fighters. Half-life 
 is fun if an a-typical single player FPS type of way.
  
  Learning curve and play time: It\\\\\\\'s a FPS so it\\\\\\\'s not hard at all.... portal has a 
 slight learning curve but the levels are frustratngly too easy late in the game. If this game has 
 a flaw it is the length of portal.
  
  This game is hands down the most fun and best value out for the PS3 right now. If it had been an 
 exclusive it would have been a system buyer.
  
  P. S. game spots censorship program blows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lilkao
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 16, 2007 9:52 pm PT
Review:  I was very skeptic about buying this game because of all the negative comments it had, i saw the 
 comparison videos that were shown on the internet and i was very skeptical aboput it so i desided 
 to buy it and i fond that all of these theing that are saying about the game are a bunch of bs. 
 first of all i have over 7 hours into HL2, so i was expecting the slowdaown i saw on a video, when 
 playing over the car and nothign happened it runned smooth. over 7 hours of play it had a slowdown 
 of aproximatelli 13 of a second and thats it nothing else. the graphics look very beautil even 
 better than some of todays games. so dont buy what these M$ fanfakers are saying about the ps3 
 version. it runs smooth and its the best game for your buck. i think this is one of my best invertions 
 and I was not even expecting it to be this good. so dont believe the bad **** people is talking 
 about the game and go buy it!!!!!!!. :)
  ps sorry about my english and spelling. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: REcrazyfan
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2007 10:38 am PT
Review:  First off, I was very skeptic about buying this game because of all the negative vibe it was getting 
 and the comparison videos that were shown on the internet. Then after buying it, I realised the 
 comparison videos are nothing more than M$ using their dirty money to porduce comparison videos 
 to make the ps3 look like a crap system. The Orange Box, does not have many framerate issues!!! 
 If you have all seen the video where the os3 version is supposed to lag, when he is on the hover 
 cart, whoa whats this? How suprising, the game isnt having any lagging and there are NO FRAMERATE 
 issues as there are in the video review. Then the second bad thing is supposed to be the incredibly 
 loooong load times, give it up! The load times are exactly 11-13 seconds long and they occur every 
 10 to 15 minutes during the game. So what have I learned from this? DOnt trust videogame websites 
 worth sh! t. If you think you might like a game, rent it, then buy it. Dont ever base your game 
 buying on what othe people think. I know from experience that this game is great and is worth every 
 penny! Fvck you M$ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: appl4s
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 7:34 pm PT
Review:  The Orange Box for the ps3 is the same as the 360 but it has minor issues. The frame rate in the 
 ps3 verson is cuggy but forgiveable the graphics actually improved, not a surprise for the ps3. 
 The gameplay is unaltered exept the frame rate bugs a little. The gameplay or half-life is as always 
 addictive fun and portal is the same and team fortress 2 is a really fun online game. The sound 
 is also off from the 360 and pc versons but only a little. It doesn't change the fact that it rules. 
 People need to get over the frame rates and all that WHO CARES minor trobles don't change gameplay. 
 A frame rate chug here and there doesn\\\'t mean it's a bad game it means it's the same game with 
 A SMALL SMALL EASY TO GET OVER PROBLEM. This is still one of the best games of the year and also 
 one of the best bargans 6 games for the price of one that's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tbadfly
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 13, 2007 6:58 pm PT
Review:  I have this for the 360 and bought it for the PS3 after talking my friends with only a PS3 into 
 buying it. Big mistake. Let's start with Team Fortress 2 a great and innovative multiplayer experience 
 except on the PS3 ,no open mic? What were they thinking this is a game based strictly on teamwork 
 and a very fast moving one at that. You have no time to push a button to talk. The lobby system is 
 horrible with know party option so if you can't get in with your friends too bad. There is also 
 no way to talk in between games to get the right people on each team and voting for what map each 
 time that's crazy. A little noticeable lag also but there will not be the following for this game 
 on-line for lack of open mics and no party system. Half-Life had noticeable frame rate issues making 
 it almost unplayable at times in several instances. Portal however seemed to run fine, and a great 
 fun ,and well humored game worth your time, but it alone hardly justifies dropping $60 on a 2 hour 
 puzzle game. While I agree the Orange Box has possibly the most content ever packed in a game, it 
 definitely doesn't equal the quality game Valve put out for the 360 and the pc. Seeing as how they 
 let EA handle the multiplayer aspect i am severely disappointed in what seems to me as a less than 
 average port to the PS3. Before I get all the microsoft fanboy comments I would like to say I have 
 gamed for years being 34 now and game to enjoy and have fun on any system but this game does not 
 do itself justice on the PS3. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
