-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: The Simpsons Game
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/thesimpsons/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Fantastic writing that successfully lampoons both gaming culture and the Simpsons themselves.
 Sharp visuals.
 Lots of stuff to collect and unlock.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Middling gameplay.
 Camera likes to get in your way.
 You can beat the game in about six hours.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Oct 30, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.1, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 742 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Games
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: 3D Platformer
Date: Oct 30, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
The gameplay might not be anything special, but The Simpsons Game delivers more than enough laughs 
 to make it worth a look. 

  The Simpsons Game is a very strange animal. On the one hand, it's the sort of rote, generally uninteresting 
 action platformer that dozens of high-profile licenses have cribbed for nefarious game-making purposes 
 over the years. Yet, at the same time, this is a game that  knows  what it is and takes every opportunity 
 imaginable to riff on that very fact. The game is as much about mocking the various conventions 
 of the game business as a whole as it is about being Simpsons fan service, which makes for a very 
 weird and often hilarious experience; so much so that you almost forget the gameplay itself is 
 still pretty uninteresting. Almost.  

           The Simpsons take on the game industry at large in The Simpsons Game.      

  The premise 
 for The Simpsons Game is appropriately meta, given the circumstances. One day, Bart happens upon 
 a manual for a game called The Simpsons Game, which has floated down from out of the sky. He learns 
 that this game gives him and his family members special powers then promptly sets off to cause 
 as much violence as possible. At the same time, a game called Grand Theft Scratchy has just been 
 released in stores and Bart wants a copy, much to Marge's chagrin. She sets off on a crusade to 
 stop video game violence. Then longtime comic foils Kodos and Kang show up to start blowing up 
 the town, rehashing sequences from a variety of Treehouse of Horror episodes. Also, there's a weird 
 and wacky world the Simpsons keep getting trapped in called "the game engine," an alternate dimension 
 where video games are created, and which is run by a bunch of haggard-looking spoofs of Mario, 
 Sonic, koopa troopas, Ryu, and Madden football players. There's also a bunch of utterly random 
 cameos from notable personalities, both from the Simpsons universe and the game industry itself. 
 This is one bizarre and genuinely incoherent adventure, which is to say it's a lot like an extended 
 episode of the show.  

  The jabs at video game culture are especially excellent. At times, the Simpsons family will find 
 itself in worlds that are directly cribbed from notable game franchises and genres. The sections 
 that knock off Grand Theft Auto and Japanese gaming in general are especially good. But you'll 
 also come across direct parodies of Medal of Honor, EverQuest, and Shadow of the Colossus, to name 
 a few. There are even some subtler gags in there as well, like the little mini-levels that pop 
 up, directly mimicking such classics as Gauntlet and Joust. There is a really sharp awareness of 
 the gaming audience's mentality in the writing here, and the game's various parodies are just about 
 pitch-perfect.  

  It's not all game humor, of course. There's plenty of  Simpsons -oriented humor as well, with a 
 ton of crazy in-jokes scattered throughout the gameworld. When the game isn't lifting specific 
 scenes or situations from various old episodes of the show and turning them into game levels, it's 
 throwing out truly obscure lines that reference things from Simpsons past that even some of the 
 more dedicated fans of the show might need a minute to recall. Anyone remember Linguo, the grammar 
 robot? Or the episode where Lisa became "Clobber Girl"? If you said "yes" then congrats because 
 the writers have geared this game decidedly toward you and your ilk.  

  All of this excellent humor does a fine job of veiling the fact that the gameplay isn't very good. 
 You'll be too busy giggling in most cases to notice that the camera is frequently getting in your 
 way and that most of these mission objectives are just kind of boring. Most of the game revolves 
 around simple action platforming where you hop around a lot of platforms and solve some light puzzles. 
 You also beat up football players, pseudo-Ryus, miniature Krusty the Klowns, lumberjacks, Kodos/Kang 
 lookalikes, killer dolphins, sumo Comic Book Guys, as well as gangsta Itchys and Scratchys, among 
 others. Unfortunately, most of this stuff is just kind of boring. The combat has all the depth 
 of the old Simpsons Arcade Game from the early '90s, and the finicky in-game camera has a tendency 
 to make some of the platforming sections far more irritating than they should be.  

  Oddly enough, the game seems entirely self-aware of its own blatantly average gameplay. Along the 
 way, you'll collect a number of "clichs," which are highlighted by Comic Book Guy himself. These 
 include pits of lava you fall in, invisible barriers, a character's inability to swim, recycled 
 enemies, escort missions, and the like. It's kind of funny to see these pop up because, yes, these 
 are very clearly video game clichs. But the really weird thing is how utterly dedicated the game 
 is to making you live through these clichs again. The game makes fun of escort missions, but then 
 makes you do one anyway. You have to give the game credit for dedicating itself all the way to 
 its gags, though the gameplay suffers a bit because of it.  

           Some of the parodies in this game are hysterical.      

  The one kind of interesting 
 thing The Simpsons Game does from a gameplay standpoint is that it constantly pairs you with another 
 Simpson. You actually have the option to play cooperatively with a friend at any time, but when 
 it's just you all by your lonesome, your cohort is a computer-controlled tagalong. Nearly all the 
 game's puzzles involve the two characters working together, and for the most part, the artificial 
 intelligence holds up its end of the bargain, rarely lagging behind by much. Plus, you can switch 
 to the other character on the fly, which is helpful because you often have to use the special powers 
 of both characters in somewhat rapid succession.  

  The powers at least add a bit of variety to the proceedings. Bart can use a slingshot to hit enemies 
 from a distance, as well as nail various targets. He can also get all Bartman and use a cape to 
 float while jumping. Homer can turn into a morbidly obese ball that can be rolled around to attack 
 foes using dash and slam attacks. Plus he can also turn into gummi Homer and launch gummi balls 
 at enemies. Lisa can use her saxophone to turn enemies against one another, and at specific checkpoints 
 in levels, she can use her Buddhist powers to bring a giant arm down to either attack foes or pick 
 up pieces of the scenery then drop them into other spots to use as platforms or bridges. Marge 
 is equipped with a megaphone and can use her powers of moral persuasion to get any passers-by to 
 form a posse to do her bidding, which usually involves destroying things, building things, or beating 
 up bad guys. As amusing as these sound, they're rarely used to especially interesting effect within 
 the game itself. Most of the level objectives are pretty simple and it's plainly obvious in most 
 cases which powers you need to use when. A few of the puzzle-solving sections are kind of neat, 
 but that's about the extent of it.  

  It won't take you long to best The Simpsons Game. The main story mode will probably run you about 
 six to seven hours, if you don't stop to smell the roses and collect every little random item the 
 game throws at you. You could also spend a great deal of time just wandering around Springfield 
 and taking in the various re-created sights or sounds, but doing so is an achingly slow process. 
 This is because of the limited foot speed of the family members and your inability to drive anything. 
 Still, there is lots to collect, and after you beat each level, you can go back to play it as a 
 time challenge, which unlocks even more crazy stuff.  

  Given that this is a game based on a cartoon, it would have been exceedingly easy for the developers 
 to quickly slap together some lousy-looking cel-shaded graphics and call it a day, but that isn't 
 the case in The Simpsons Game. This game looks a whole lot like the show on which it's based. The 
 characters and environments are drawn or animated in such a wonderful way that you really get the 
 sense that you're traipsing through an episode of the show. You do lose a small sense of that when 
 the game switches to an animated cutscene outside of the game engine, but at times, the line between 
 the two really is blurred. The colorful and crisp graphics are made better by a steady frame rate 
 that rarely hitches, save for in split-screen mode. Both the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 versions 
 look nearly identical to one another.  

           The graphics do an excellent job of recreating the look of the show.      

  Audio 
 is equally impressive. The entire voice cast from the show is on hand, and they deliver their lines 
 with the same sort of comedic enthusiasm as they do on the show. Even the guest stars are on point, 
 and there are some hilarious guest stars to be sure. All the other areas of sound design are excellent 
 too. Great sound effects pepper each level, and the music is always appropriate for the scene, 
 from the weirdo jazz music that plays as you fight on an airship in the Japan level to the bombastic 
 score that layers over the raid dungeon action of the EverQuest level. It's great stuff all around. 

  In the end, The Simpsons Game is one of those weird cases where a recommendation of it is based 
 less on its merits as a game and more on its merits as an  experience . The things that make this 
 game are its sense of humor, sharp writing, and excellent presentation. The gameplay isn't awful 
 by any means, but it's also completely unmemorable. It's something that's more to be put up with 
 while you appreciate the many other things going on than enjoyed on its own merits. That might 
 not sound like a ringing endorsement, but The Simpsons Game is absolutely worth playing. Games 
 this spot-on in the humor category don't come along too often. Considering what a fantastic job 
 it does spoofing the variety of clichs and crutches our favorite pastime relies upon, that's got 
 to count for something.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (40 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: Collins0262
Rating: 10
Date: Apr 13, 2009 4:40 am PT
Review:  October 29, 2007 - Metal Gear Solid, Madden Football, Lord of the Rings, The Sims, Christianity, 
 Mario, Sonic, Grand Theft Auto, and the videogame industry as a whole are just a few of the things 
 that are parodied in The Simpsons Game, where players assume the roles of all four members of the 
 cartoon family that has been invading televisions since 1989. Fans were understandably concerned 
 when they heard that the yellow-skinned, four-fingered quartet would be making their way not only 
 into a full-length feature film but also into an EA-made videogame in the same year. While the 
 movie didn't turn many heads with its humor, we're happy to report that the game certainly will, 
 thanks to a sense of humor that can only be described as equal to Simpsons episodes of old. Heed 
 the call, fans: this game is good.
  
  The game brings the cartoon household knowingly into their own videogame when Bart stumbles upon 
 a game manual that has seemingly dropped from the heavens. What's inside the manual? Why it's the 
 guide on how to use the family's all-important powers against their captors, of course! Along the 
 way they'll be pitted against villains from the show, EA higher ups (yes, you read that right) , 
 and their creator - in more ways than one. While the plot of the game is functional, the real star 
 of The Simpsons Game is the hilarity that ensues.
  
  Several of everyone's favorite Simpsons episodes are represented quite effectively. You'll see 
 such favorites as The Land of Chocolate, Super Happy Fun Fun Homer, Lisa trying to stop lumberjacks 
 from cutting down trees, and several others. The only thing really missing is a bona fide Treehouse 
 of Horror tribute, though there are elements from the series of Halloween specials throughout the 
 play experience. It would have been fine and dandy if the game simply reconstructed classic episodes 
 and spit them out at gamers to play through but The Simpsons Game goes a step further and actually 
 parodies tons of Hollywood and videogame properties as well.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bofish
Rating: 7
Date: Mar 15, 2009 2:32 pm PT
Review:  If you like the Simpsons, I think you should get it. There are some annoying levels, but the many 
 good ones are worth buying for the Simpsons fan. 
  
  The comments that Homer makes throughout the missions are very fun. Bart has some good moves too. 
 
  
  The only drawback I have about this game is that you can't really pick who you want to play as 
 at times. I am a big homer simpson fan and I don't mind playing as Bart. But to play as Marge really 
 doesn't do it for me and some missions require her.
  
  The boss battles are great and you can interact with a lot of the characters in between missions. 
 You do have a great access to the Town of Springfield. The moves that the characters have are pretty 
 limited and I kind of wish they made more variety in that aspect. One of Bart Simpsons signature 
 things is riding a skateboard and unfortunately he doesn't do that here. 
  
  If your not a Simpsons fan I would not get this game, thus my score is a 7.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sillygostly
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 5:21 pm PT
Review:  The Good : Crisp, clean cel-shaded graphics. A diverse assortment of levels. The graphical style 
 of the cut scenes in the console versions make them feel less pretentious than the ones in the 
 DS version. Some amusing dialogue.
  
  The Bad : Awful camera and controls that basically ruin the entire gameplay experience. Some of 
 the cut scenes are lame and come across as trying too hard to be funny. You wouldn't want to bother 
 replaying the game for all the collectibles. A HUGE step down from The Simpsons: Hit & Run.
  
  --
  
  First up, if this game were branded any differently, NO-ONE would give this game 
 the time of the day. The control scheme is flawed and the camera is so infuriatingly inconsistent 
 that it CONSTANTLY moves around, obscuring what you want to see, or steering in the opposite direction 
 of where you intended on jumping (which is particularly worrying seeing as this is a PLATFORM game) .
 
  
  The storyline of the game is simple; Bart discovers a manual for a game aptly titled "The Simpsons 
 Game", and when strange things begin to happen, the Simpsons consult the manual and harness their 
 super powers. Homer can turn into a giant ball, Marge can boss people around at her will, Bart 
 can transform into "Bartman" and glide around, and Lisa can use her "Hand of Buddha" powers to 
 lift up heavy objects from checkpoints throughout the game. Maggie is also playable in the game, 
 but in a very limited capacity through Marge.
  
  The game is quite linear, and takes place over 16 levels, so, players may feel disappointed given 
 the freedom offered by The Simpsons: Hit & Run, where Springfield can be explored at will, and 
 missions can be played at one's own pace (or even skip them entirely if one fails the mission a 
 number of times) . Each level has a checklist of objectives, but unfortunately, given the bad camera 
 and controls, even the simplest of tasks can prove to be a grueling chore.
  
  What was more aggravating is that I NEVER made the PAR time on any of the levels. One of which 
 is particularly noteworthy was one level tha had a target time of 10 minutes to complete, whereas 
 I completed it in 55. Even my little brother spent well over an hour on one of the games' levels.
 
  
  For video game enthusiasts, there are dozens of references to much loved brands of years past. 
 Super Mario Bros., Grand Theft Auto, Wolfenstein 3D, Gauntlet, Medal of Honor, Everquest, Pokemon 
 and Street Fighter are all lovingly lampooned in The Simpsons Game, with some levels taking place 
 in parodies of their universes.
  
  A vast majority of the levels require two characters to navigate through them; and as such, you'll 
 need to utilise the powers of both characters in order to complete the level. The game is also 
 fairly generous in the health department, and characters automatically replenish their health once 
 every minute or so. Fainting will result in an automatic switch to the alternate character in the 
 current level (until the fainted character regains consciousness) , however, should both characters 
 be unconcious at any point of the level, it will be reset. This doesn't happen often, but can be 
 a nuisance with some of the tougher levels.
  
  Graphically, The Simpsons Game looks very much like the TV show. The graphics are especially nice 
 on the Xbox360 and PS3 versions, where they look quite crisp and clean, unlike the other versions, 
 where 3D models appear to be a little jagged. Most of the cut scenes are hand-animated, just like 
 the television series, however there is a small number that have been rendered using The Simpsons 
 Game engine, which don't look too bad either.
  
  The music throughout the game is nice and also captures the audio of the show quite well. Both 
 playable characters and NPCs spurt out one-liners throughout the game, and while some of them can 
 be funny the first time, the fact that they repeat them so often diminishes the comedic value.
 
  
  Comic Book Guy also takes note whenever a video game cliche takes place in The Simpsons Game. These 
 may include AI running into walls, chasms, lava, trampolines, enemy spawners among other video 
 game conventions. It's ironic though, as The Simpsons is basically just a mish-mash of all of these 
 cliches, and does little to challenge them. There are collectibles scattered across all 16 levels, 
 however, given the broken camera and controls, I can't imagine why anybody would want to go through 
 the torture of replaying all of the levels just to obtain every last coupon.
  
  Let's face it, if it weren't for the branding, none of us would give The Simpsons Game the time 
 of day. However, looking at it as a long, playable Simpsons episode, only the most die-hard of 
 fans would have the patience to see this game through to the end (and enjoy it on at least some 
 level) . If possible, I would strongly advise you pick up the DS version of the game as its the 
 best of all iterations of The Simpsons Game, at least in the gameplay department. While there's 
 little here to appease game lovers, there's some entertainment value to be found in The Simpsons 
 Game for fans of the television series despite all of its flaws. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jerkface7
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 23, 2009 6:06 pm PT
Review:  when i first saw the simpsons game i thought it was going to be really bad and unfunny but when 
 i played a demo and got it i was really fun and kind of funny. The graphics kinda ruin the game 
 a little bit but when its amaited the animation is really really good the levels are very unquie 
 and very fun to explore and collect things to unlock stuff espically during the halloween missions 
 when you have to face that giant doughnt guy which was super fun. though it was kind of dissapointing 
 that you can only play members of the family and no one else like in the hit and run one well that 
 one was terrible because noone really dies you just hit them with cars and watch them bounce around 
 the screen. though the simpsons game is really a game you shuld pick up if your having a bad day 
 because when im depressed i always play this game and it cheers me right up. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: RO-J
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 11, 2009 6:27 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is far from perfect and polished as we all know all games must be to achieve 
 an 8.5 or higher anyway.
  
  It is also not as immersive as previous Simpsons Games such as hit and run and dare I say, even 
 Road Rage, there I said it. Simply because one level although remotely, has very little to do with 
 the next, but that doesn't mean it isn't fun. It has a few fantastic levels in it, that really 
 are a joy to play, and some funny ones, such as the food contest and the humorous way Homer inflates 
 in to a far larger and rounder version of himself.
  
  Whew ... reviewing is hard work, now I know how you guys at Gamespot have got it, hey but at least 
 you get paid.
  
  The Simpsons Games offers a solid amount of fun with no large stress or difficulty with a range 
 of funny and stimulating missions, each particularly interesting. You can tell that a great deal 
 of effort has gone into this and it deserves some credit for what it did well.
  
  The Simpsons game is, all in all a great game, and you should at least rent it before you hate 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: saka55
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 10, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  Without giving away too much.......
  The Simpsons first appearance on the Playstation 3 is fantastic. The storyline is very good. You 
 play as Bart, Homer, Lisa and Marge. I won't give away too much but you unlock some great powers. 
 Not only can you play the simpsons game by yourself, you can play co-op with a friends. Even if 
 you are halfway through the story your friend can join, and you won't have to start all over again. 
 There is no online multiplayer or battle modes for two people but thats ok. You can check your 
 score and what rank you are in the world though, when you are connected to the internet. When nearing 
 the end of the game what happens is a complete surprise. When playing it leaves you wanting more 
 and more. The game isn't too difficult but still can be challenging at some points. Now that The 
 Simpsons Game is coming way down in price I would recommend it to any Ps3 owner. I can't wait for 
 another installment of The Simpsons to come out on the Ps3. With all that I give The Simpsons Game 
 a 8.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: poisonedpawn
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2008 9:14 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is not going to blow anyone away. That said, it is an enjoyable experience from 
 beginning to end, and really only suffers from a few relatively minor issues.
  
  Let's get the bad out of the way first. By far the worst thing about the Simpsons game is its length. 
 It is almost criminally short. If you don't spend time exploring Springfield (not really recommended, 
 but you can avoid it if you want) and finding the collectibles, the game can be passed in about 
 six to seven hours, maybe less if you're quick. This is unfortunate as the game really is fun. 
 It would have been nice to have a few more missions in the game to boost it up to a solid 10 hours 
 or so.
  
  Next is the item collection. This is largely useless. It rewards you with trophies (not official 
 PS3 trophies, just in-game trophies) and upgrades your power meter, but I rarely found all the 
 collectibles in a single level, and I got through the entire game fairly easily without an upgrade 
 to the power meter. The game encourages you (after the ending cutscene) to find them all to help 
 reach 100% completion, but once you've passed the game, a power meter upgrade isn't very useful.
 
  
  The final bit of "bad" to discuss is that the game suffers from some very minor camera and control 
 issues. On occasion the camera can end up behind an obstruction making it impossible to see your 
 character. Jumping onto small platforms can also be troublesome. These are pretty minor and don't 
 affect enjoyment too much.
  
  The gameplay mechanics are fairly simple, and by no means outstanding. Each playable character 
 has their own powers and you have to work together to use each character's abilities to get through 
 each of the levels. Each mission gives you two characters (determined by the game) , with the exception 
 of the final level in which you have control over all four characters. Puzzles range from easy 
 to moderately difficult, but rarely will you find yourself stuck on what to do next for more than 
 a few minutes.
  
  The game is probably best played with two people. Since every mission has two characters to play 
 with, each person can take control of one (split-screen is used) , and it makes working together 
 on the puzzles more fun. I played most of the game in the co-op mode and it was definitely superior 
 to playing it by myself.
  
  Each mission takes place in a different location so there is plenty of variety in that department. 
 Anyone familiar with GTA: San Andreas will appreciate the "recreation" of Grove Street in one of 
 the later missions. The environments are all made to look like those from the television show, 
 with the exact same use of solid colours. It's definitely the best video game recreation of Springfield. 
 The only complaint is the character models which look awkward close up.
  
  The game's strongest aspect is its plot and traditionally animated cutscenes. The Simpsons look 
 amazing in 720p and it's really a shame the show isn't animated at that resolution. The cutscenes 
 feature some of the most humourous moments in recent Simpsons history outside of last year's movie. 
 The plot is suitably wacky and involves the Simpsons discovering that they are video game characters 
 and all have special powers. Eventually they must use these powers to try and stop an alien invasion. 
 There are several cameos that Simpsons fans will appreciate, and even a "celebrity" lending their 
 voice to the game. Pretty much every Springfieldian can be seen in cutscenes or wandering somewhere 
 around Springfield and many have humourous comments to make.
  
  All in all, The Simpsons Game is a fun, brief experience that is definitely a must have for any 
 Simpsons fan. It's not likely going to end up on many people's "best games of all time" list, but 
 I imagine most people will enjoy the experience. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigman01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 9, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game was funny and is good as a co-op game. single player on the other hand was insanely 
 hard. i had trouble getting past the 4th level on single player. but in a co-op it is manageable. 
 the story was a little weired but still had the enjoyment of the t. v. show. and what made it a 
 bit better was the cut scenes which were voiced by the same actors as the show. so that i enjoyed 
 that. but it left me a bit disappointed as a game. i hoped it to be a bit more action packed but 
 all it was, was performing the same moves over and over again.
  
  the graphics were not great compared to many games for the ps3 and it made me kinda sad to see 
 how a lack of resources were used in making this game.
  
  there isn't much to say about the game after that so i just want to mention one last thing. hopefully 
 after this game, if they make another, it enjoyable and interactive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: detroithardcore
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 2, 2008 1:56 pm PT
Review:  This game has got alot of bad press in my opinion. It's not horrible by any means. It's got plenty 
 of humor and charm and lots of game references that I could appreciate.
  
  Graphics = Good cel shading and cut scene swap outs. Very nice visual style.
  
  
  Sounds 
 = All the characters and voices from the show, dialog only gets old if you get stuck on the same 
 part.
  
  
  Controls = Pretty simple and easy to use, learning everybody's weapon is the trick.
  
  
  
 Difficulty = Really hard at times because you're not shown what to do sometimes and you can get 
 stuck. Once you figure out your path than it's not so bad.
  
  
  Playability = Easy to learn, good for adult and kid fans alike.
  
  
  Value = I wouldn't say 
 a $60 game but used for say $40 or $45 it's worth it. If you're a big Simpsons fan this is a must.
 
  
  
  
  Overall value = If you've played any Simpson's game and wished it was better, than this is your 
 game. Hasn't been one this fun since the old arcade. They even reference how bad their old games 
 were.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: devilsace
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 18, 2008 7:03 am PT
Review:  when i buy'd the simpson's game i was actually going to to buy nfs: prostreet i asked the guy at 
 the till is this a good game he said yes its a very good adventure to play i said fine ill take 
 it 40 pounds for it i paid and it was crap . weird powers and levels and it was really short i 
 finished it on hard mode in 2 hours the camera can be annoying at times the controls are not that 
 good and it really strange one of homer powers is to turn in to a fat ball idiot type thing and 
 swallow helium to fly rent it first all though i wish i had of done that. i dont recommend it its 
 only good if youre a hard core simpson's fan (wich im not) its got great voice acting and brilliant 
 graphics it looks a lot like the tv show but. over all it a a poor game 
  if u like it good for you i definitely dont 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Megavideogamer
Rating: 6.5
Date: Aug 5, 2008 3:23 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons game is Alright. Playable. Kinda fun. I prefer the Classic Coin op version of The 
 Simpsons. Made by EA this version is not exactly the classic It could have been. The Camera is 
 a pain at times. Although a least it is not "Death by Camera" as this game is somewhat on the easy 
 side. Abet It is not "pick up and play" at first. The controls are Not as smooth as I have hoped 
 . The Storyline fits the Simpsons Universe. With some amusing parts. An passable Action RPG beat 
 em up. I took me a while to get into this game. But when I did. The Game runs smoothly. The Gameplay 
 is good but not great. If your a big fan of the Simpsons The this game will deliver for you. As 
 for me and Most people I like the Simpsons. So I am able to Get the inside jokes (mostly) This 
 game could have better so much better if it were not for the sometimes horrible camera/Controls. 
 A Dumb/Strange/Goofy Plot works for the Simpsons game. Konomi did a better Job with the Simpsons. 
 But this version is Passable. EA is not quite in the game with this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: creepster32000
Rating: 8
Date: Jul 7, 2008 7:57 am PT
Review:  THE UP it's by far the best simpsons game i've played has a fresh story to it. The gameplay is 
 great an love the multiplayer. The graphics are as good as it gets its really like watching the 
 episodes well the newer ones, so clear and well detailed. Although, almost all the characters are 
 there from the show dont get to happy bout it cause there only for loks no way possible to control 
 these characters but they interact well with each other an its always fun to give'em a good punch 
 an watch them run screaming just a little taste of GTA..
  THE DOWNER the games not much fun unless you gotta gf or a bud to rip this game with plus its more 
 difficult with those objects u gotta have somebody stand on. I also got frustrated with the camera's 
 u cant control them in certain spots which left me geussing my jumps. The game dosent last long 
 took me about 10 hrs or less.
  
  I reccomend you rent this game before you buy seeing how you'll beat before its do back but if 
 u wanna perfect it i reccomend buying it because ive had the game almost a year an still havent 
 got all the hidden items around the city. Goodluck an remeber, have more fun then you should 
::::::

::::::
UserName: skvar
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 10, 2008 9:10 am PT
Review:  Hi if you are looking to get the simpsons game i would suggest not. But fopr some people it might 
 be the ideal game however i dont like it because all you do is misions with different simpsons 
 characters the attacks you use on people are just stupid the only one i like is 1of homers when 
 he inflates because it's kinda' funny but you probably will be wasting your money and time. Not 
 a lot of people like it from the looks of what i saw, i went into gamestation a day after it came 
 out and there were tons of copies of the game pre owned so if you are thinking of getting it i 
 suggest you dont you should rent it first just in case you like that type of game  
 (im only doing this because it isnt long enough)  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lucario-kid
Rating: 5
Date: May 30, 2008 1:14 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons game is the first proper game of the popular TV series. In it you play as the the 
 simpson family, Homer, Marge, Bart, Lisa and Maggie.
  
  The Simpsons game takes place when Bart find a magic comic book called The Simpsons comic and it 
 gove him special poweres and turns him into BARTMAN! Eventully all the Simpson family get super 
 powers and the have to save the world from the evil CREATOR...... Who is obviously Matt Greoning, 
 the creator of the Simpsons.
  
  The controls are fine for the XBOX360, PS2, PS3 and PSP versions but the Wii version has some boring 
 controls, you just press B to attack and you just skake the remote to use your characters special 
 ability.
  
  Theb graphics are ok, but the place where The Simpsons game comes into it's own is the humor, it 
 was written by the people who made the TV series and is the funniest game you will ever play! It 
 is certain to have you chuckling all the way through!
  
  Overall The Simpsons game is a decent game and the funniest you will ever play, it's just too bad 
 it's only 16 levels. 5/10! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robertcain
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 28, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Games based on the simpsons have never really been great but can this one finally do them justice? 
 The first thing that hits you is the graphics, they are the best yet, the entire game looks like 
 a real episode of the show. The next thing that hits you is the jokes, this is by far one of the 
 funniest games to date. The game revolves around Bart finding a manual for the Simpsons game and 
 finds that they are all in the game. Eventually the family discover that they have superpowers. 
 At first they use their powers to do what they want for Springfield but soon aliens invade and 
 they find that their powers aren't strong enough. The story is made up of a hub (Springfield) with 
 entrances to chapters around it. You can just run around Springfield, break things punch characters 
 or whatever. Unfortunatly the game is quite short. I finished the story in about 2 weeks and apart 
 from the tokens there isn't really anything else to do. With some downloads, good camera and Online 
 this would have been a winner but if you are a fan of the Simpsons then you don't want to miss 
 out on this whatever platform you have. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sony-tha-champ0
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 8, 2008 10:26 am PT
Review:  EA is great company, but they putted only puttedn good graphics, and some a bit unin spired graphics
 
  
  
  sadly persist throughout the game, it just feels like EA put all of their energy in getting the 
 graphics and the Simpsons humor right, and forgot all about making a game that plays right. The 
 several timed missions are a big downside, at least in my opinion, and the level design is very 
 unclear and just feels sloppy at times. Like the levels are build in a hurry.
  
  
  
  Another very strange thing: between activating the main levels you can explore the town of Springfield, 
 but for some obscure reason, this cannot be done in 2 player split screen mode, although you still 
 have two main characters in the game, that now only one player can switch between. So if you play 
 together with a friend he or she will have to wait until player 1 is done exploring of decided 
 to skip to the next level. 
  
  This game is not really grat, bt has good humour and Graphics, thats it .
  
  very poor, but if 
 you are a fan of the show ,you might like this Game ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: matt_mill44
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 9:34 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is a weird game. Not that it is a bad game, which it is not. It is just a weird 
 game. Most if the game is set in Springfield as most of the other game, TV shows and now move are, 
 but you travel around a lot to the 'game engine', the creators place and many other areas. The 
 game doses not shy away from making fun of other games either, even some of the previous Simpson 
 games. Some of the games they do parodies on are: Grand Theft Auto (Grand Theft Scratchy) , Medal 
 of Honor (Medal of Homer) , the Madden series and many others. The story involves Bart finding a 
 book called the Simpsons Game Manual, which then he finds that his family and yes Bart all have 
 special super powers and with this it sends them of on another wacky adventure fighting many bad 
 guys.
  
  The graphics in the Simpsons Game make the game look a lot like the TV show with the kind of 2D 
 flat look to them, which really does a good job of making it seem like you are not playing a game 
 but more like you are watching a episode of The Simpsons.
  
  The sound that is in the game also sounds very well made. The voice acting is spot on and so are 
 the sound effects. The game has very funny and well written writing all throughout the game, however 
 some of the lines you hear whilst playing the game may eventually sound a bit familiar and used 
 over again.
  
  Once you have finished the game you may want to go back a play though it again to get all that 
 collectables, clichs which are things like: double jump, exploding barrels, the switches where 
 you need to people to walk on and endless holes just a few things that if they were not in any 
 game it would not be a game. And with all that you are given some time trails for you to try and 
 beat.
  
  So if you like the Simpsons I would recommend that you get this game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: deadstar_666_7
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 3, 2008 5:30 am PT
Review:  The majority of reviews for this game basically say, gameplay - bad, content - funny, and that's 
 pretty much true.
  
  Although I felt some of the puns were a little, misplaced, the majority of the game is really funny, 
 with a pretty crazy storyline, and the Simpsons cast actually being voiced by the proper actors 
 (which makes a huge, wonderful difference) . Rather than taking samples or getting sound-a-likes, 
 this game features tons of original dialogue. 
  
  Graphics-wise, it's nothing to get too excited about, although there are some good moments in HD, 
 such as the green lasers of Lard Lad and explosions when you're dropping cars with Lisa's 'Hand 
 of Buddha'. Characters themselves look a little strange, and some of the environments are quite 
 bland.
  
  The problem with the gameplay is that while there's co-op, and every character having their own 
 super power, it all feels very, done before, and I felt the missions became quite repetitive. Also, 
 as with a lot of third person platformers, camera work is horrible, something that definitely lets 
 the game down quite a lot. 
  
  That all sounds quite negative, but I'm still scoring it a 7, because sure it might not be the 
 best game ever in terms of game play and innovation, but it's definitely going to put a big smile 
 on the face of anyone who likes the Simpsons... 
  
  So...
  The Good - Original voice actors makes for funny, believable Simpsons game - Loads of things to 
 collect if that's your kind of thing - Best Simpsons game out there - Some good graphics
  
  The Bad - Typical platformer problems (Graphics, Camera, Some poor level design) - If you dislike 
 the Simpsons, you'll find absolutely nothing in this game
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: fartmaster99
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 22, 2008 5:18 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons are back and now in a new game. The graphics are good expesically on your brand new 
 HD tv!! 
  
  The simpsons game is fun and its worth playing.
  
  Good things about it
  The really fun game play
  The graphics
  The voices
  Its a really good game for those who 
 love watching the simpsons on tv and those who like action adventure games
  Its really funny at some points
  
  Bad things about it
  The camera tends to piss you off
 
  You cant drive a car anymore, the only thing you can do with those is blowing them all up
  And not enough time is given for a few of the time missions
  No online play (can you belive that, if 
 there was, it would most likely get a better rating, more simpsons fans would buy it and people 
 would spend more time playing it)
  Its really short takes around 6 whole hours till you beat it
  
  If you loved your hit and run 
 (like i did) then this game is a good choise for you.
  Id say its not worth your 60 bucks, but it is worth buying for a cheaper price
  Overall its a 
 good a game and its worth your puchase. If your a simpsons fan, own a  
 Wii and love an action adventure game then the simpsons game is for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ToxicInferno
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 21, 2008 12:52 pm PT
Review:  Well, The Simpsons are back, as you would probably expect...
  
  I know this game has been out for a while, but I've been playing it so much, I wanted to get a 
 really in depth look at it before I wrote a review. I wanted to find every single little piece 
 of hilarity, and laugh at it three or four times, before I even suggested this game to anyone.
 
  
  This day has come.
  
  This game is made for three sets of people:
  
  Those who are great fans of the Simpsons, and would do nearly anything for a few seconds of the 
 yellow family...
  
  Those who are addicts when it comes to gaming, and understand nearly everything about the gaming 
 world...
  
  And those who are both.
  
  Needless to say, anybody can play this game. It doesn't recquire those particular qualities.
 
  
  Firstly, it's a great Simpsons game. If you've played Hit and Run, and enjoyed it, like I did, 
 then you will thoroughly enjoy this game, as it is similar in more ways than you would think.
 
  
  There are some extremely sharp pieces of humour, often directed at the gaming industry, but also 
 at other things, like TV, film, etc.
  
  I don't want to ruin the storyline, but I assure you, it referances many games, especially of the 
 1980s/90s era, and even features some of Matt Groening's other creation!
  
  I don't want to spoil this game for you, so just play it. You'll love it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ILOVETHEENOT
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 18, 2008 2:29 pm PT
Review:  even though the simpsons game is fun it's got exactly a game that revolutionizes the platforming 
 genre.
  
  Pros:
  - Fun Gameplay
  - Good Graphics for a cartoony game, they really do look like the simpsons
  - Good voice acting
 
  - Great game for either platforming fans or fans of the simpsons TV show
  
  Cons:
  - Camera stinks
  - Sloppy Controls
  - Ocasionally hard to tell what's going on do to the camera
 
  - Homer's super power is weaker then it should be.
  
  Even though the Simpsons game doesn't introduce anything new to the genre it's a fun game to play 
 even if it needs some tweaks to it. The reason the camera needs work is because it's completely 
 manual I would have prefured if it was semi-manual where the camera would focus behind the characters 
 by it's self but have it so that you can position it how you want (similar to early spyro games) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 4, 2008 3:36 pm PT
Review:  Ok so the simpsons game first off i was a huge fan of the show until the most recent series which 
 to me, were not as good as classic episodes and lucky the simpsons movie was great and resurected 
 the franchise for me so i though the movie was great why not try the game...
  Story: 
  
  The game opens with Homer Simpson dreaming about the land of chocolate, but is interrupted as Bart 
 asks him for money to buy the latest video game "Grand Theft Scratchy". After purchasing a copy 
 of the game and then having it took away from him by Marge almost immediately, Bart comes upon 
 the instruction manual from "The Simpsons Game". Reading through the manual, he discovers that 
 he and the rest of his family members have special powers; Bart uses his "Bartman" powers to stop 
 Jimbo Jones, Kearney and Dolph from stealing from the Natural History Museum, Homer uses his ability 
 to become a huge ball to win an eating contest, Lisa uses her powers of meditation to stop a deforestation 
 project, and Marge with her powers to influence crowds to stop the release of "Grand Theft Scratchy" 
 in Springfield.
  
  At home, as everyone talks about how they love their powers, Kang and Kodos launch an alien attack 
 upon Springfield. Among their havoc strategies include bringing a giant Lard Lad statue to life 
 and turning all the dolphins evil. Even Sideshow Bob forms an alliance with them. Realizing none 
 of their powers are strong enough to defeat the aliens, Bart and Lisa visit Professor Frink who 
 presently is in the "Game Engine", a factory-like realm where video games are made. Frink gives 
 them "The Simpsons Game" player's guide to better understand how to use their powers as well as 
 gain new ones, and the Simpsons family rally again to stop the alien invasion.
  
  In order to find out the truth, the family turns to the Internet to discover more about the powers 
 they have in the game, but are accidentally sent back to the game engine when Homer spills beer 
 while trying to play solitaire. There, they discover The Sims creator Will Wright destroying copies 
 of the game Escape from Krusty Island, purely on the basis that the game is dated and no one is 
 playing it anymore. The family manages to save their 8-bit predecessors, who tell them that as 
 they too are just characters in a video game, they are also doomed to become obsolete when the 
 next "Simpsons" game comes out, and that the only way to prevent this is to talk to "The Creator" 
 himself.
  
  To get to The Creator, the Simpsons collect four key cards in four separate "Simpsons" video games 
 currently in development.
  
  In "NeverQuest", Marge and Homer become characters in a fantasy video game and must defeat the 
 two-headed dragon Selmatty. In "Big Super Happy Fun Fun Game", Homer and Lisa meet Mr. Sparkle, 
 who tells them they must fight through Comic Book Guy sumo wrestlers and defeat three separate 
 monsters: Ratachu (Jimbo) , Turdle (Ralph) , and Dirty Donkey (Terri/Sherri) , so that Mr. Sparkle 
 can get the keycard from Mr. Dirt (Milhouse) .
  
  In "Medal of Homer" Homer and Bart, time traveling to a civil war, upon meeting Abraham Simpsons 
 who is now a seargent and Mr. Burns who is a first class private. The father and son first collect 
 the white flags of surrender from a town in France, and then head to face Mr. Burns who has betrayed 
 Abraham's military forces and escaped with French paintings on his battleship carrier to obtain 
 the third key card. In "Grand Theft Scratchy," Marge has to gather a mob of blue dogs to rebuild 
 sleazy businesses into more wholesome entertainment outlets while fighting off Itchys and Scratchys 
 with Lisa, and then defeating Poochie and collect the final key card.
  
  When the family returns, they have a brief debate with the 8-bit Simpsons about how older video 
 games worked. They then proceed to head to the mansion of The Creator, who turns out to be Matt 
 Groening. Groening refuses to help the family, and escapes after distracting Homer and Bart with 
 copies of Bender Bending Rodriguez and Dr. Zoidberg from Futurama. Returning to Springfield, the 
 family realizes they have one last resort to stop the alien invaders from destroying Springfield, 
 God himself, they go to Heaven and when there, must fend off people they've defeated before, as 
 well as both William Shakespeare and Benjamin Franklin. After discovering and beating God in a 
 godlike version of Dance Dance Revolution, God promises to restore Springfield when Bart threatens 
 to destroy his memory card containing his saved games.
  
  Then they discover that God is actually playing a giant video game, of which "The Simpsons Game" 
 was just a mini-game. Before the Simpsons depart, Lisa asks God if He ever considered Himself as 
 part of a video game - the game then is shown with Ralph Wiggum playing it, and Ralph then breaks 
 the fourth wall by tapping on the screen and calling to his father that people are watching him.
 
  
  I had no problem what so ever with the story of this game as i thought the game was funny as hell 
 and great to watch the cut scenes.
  
  Controls:
  
  The controls in this game are pretty simple to learn and dont take much skill to master as you 
 have a simple ' lock-on ' button and a type of ' shoot ' button like most games... so learning 
 the controls when you first purchase the game wont take very long.
  
  i guess the main problem i had just like gamespot would be the camera which like they say get caught 
 behind objects from time to time but doesnt make much of a difference that u shouldnt atleast check 
 out the game.
  
  Gameplay:
  
  In '' The simpsons game '' you are able to control four of the five members of the family, each 
 with their own unique abilities. Maggie is, in effect, an extension of Marge, briefly being playable 
 in air ducts and other small spaces. Two different family members are playable on each level, aside 
 from The Land of Chocolate tutorial where only Homer is playable, and the final level, which allows 
 all of the family members to be used (except Maggie and Marge) . The game contains 16 levels, known 
 as episodes. Each episode requires specific skills related to the characters in that episode. For 
 example, in Episode 4: Lisa the Tree Hugger, you are required to use Lisa's "Hand of Buddha" skill 
 to move large objects, and Bart's slingshot skill to shut down numerous machines. Unique enemies 
 are featured in all episodes with the exception of the final level, in which the enemies are "recycled" 
 with different colors. Several after-episode challenges exist. These include finding all the collectibles 
 for each character, finding all the videogame cliches.
  
  Each family member has their own abilities: Bart is similar to a traditional platform character, 
 with slingshot, grapple and cape to glide, and the ability to use ziplines. Homer's abilities let 
 him turn into a giant ball by eating food, turn into a gummi blob version which can shoot pieces 
 of gummi, and he can inhale helium and turn into a balloon. Marge can recruit a mob she can use 
 to destroy, repair and build parts of the environment, and to attack enemies. Maggie, inside a 
 carrier on Marge's back, can be deployed into small areas for certain objectives. Lisa's power 
 is using Hand of Buddha ports to move objects across the landscape, and to flick and smash enemies, 
 freeze and send lightning bolts at her enemies. She can also use her saxophone to stun enemies.
 
  Graphics:
  
  This game features cel-shaded graphics, in contrast with the "solid 3D" rendering used in the previous 
 three The Simpsons games released (The Simpsons Road Rage, Simpsons Skateboarding and The Simpsons 
 Hit & Run) . Many cutscenes feature the 2D style, shown like a normal Simpsons episode...
  
  So all in all the graphics are no means great in the sense that there like a rachet & clank but 
 the art style seems to suit the game and looks alot like the show in its self.
  In addition, each console had different covers. The Xbox 360 shows Homer in a triumphant pose , 
 the Wii shows Homer being attacked by Kang, Kodos or another member of their species, on the Playstation 
 3 cover, Homer is shown kneeing Itchy.
  
  A. I:
  
  The A. I in the simpsons game is well rendered due to the fact that as the levels have two characters 
 that you can switch between and while your attcking an enemy your computer controlled ally will 
 help you out.
  
  Also the enemy A. I is also very good in my opinion as sometimes they'll gang up on you and even 
 black alot of your attacks.
  
  The big problem i had with the A. I however was that if your attacking an enemy A. I they could just 
 stand there blocking of several minuites which gets fustrating and also your allied A. I dies pretty 
 easily compared to when you are in control of that certain character.
  
  Multi-Player:
  
  Although this game doesnt have any PSN or Xbox Live multi-player is does have a nifty offline 
 multi-player which again, in my opinion we are seeing less and less of thanks to online capabilities 
 which is a real shame becuase this game has fun multiplayer and the core multiplayef game in its 
 self is just as you'd expect.
  
  The only problem i had with this multiplayer was again the camera issue and the split screen interface 
 issues.
  
  Overall this is a short game but what is doesnt do ' length ' wise is does make up in great story 
 and fun mini-games through out and although i wish that they could of kept cars ect... ( like a 
 hit and run style ) which would of made the game have more replay value this game is deffently 
 worth a fan of the show's time and money.
  
  The Good:
  
  Gripping story
  Great cel-shadded graphics
  Obiously great voice overs
  fun mini-games
  
  The Bad:
  
 
  Camera
  Short game
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Little to no replay value 
  unfortunatly perhaps not worth full price 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tyg_skye
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 31, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is a great game which you would keep you busy if you have two controllers and 
 another friend, The Simpsons Game has sub stories like Medal of Homer and Bartman, It is a puzzle 
 action fighting game, it is amazing once again, if you have a friend or a brother or sister on 
 your side, You get to pick characters like pretend Homer Simpson he has special powers of being 
 a Big Homer, which he has a charge attack and pretty good, he also has the attack of Slam you jump 
 and you Slam the ground! hahaha, He also can turn to Gummi Homer, which you could shot gummi balls, 
 hehehe, Well Now off to Marge Simpson, Marge has the power of commanding a group of people, like 
 you can command a group of dogs and attack the certain cat ,or build the certain item and etc., You 
 also have Maggie which she could crawl under small spaces, and press the certain stuff, Now With 
 Lisa Simpson, she has the power of a god, in which you are Indestructable WOW!, but one thing, 
 it is limited of using this stuff, you can also use the buddhist skill... in certain places you will 
 see a buddha statue and from there you can flick, freeze thunder and pick up stuff, Now with Bart 
 Simpson or Bartman!, you can glide, and you have a slingshot, of course , and well there is not 
 MAIN story so... nah... rent it first 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dumbanimalbut
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 26, 2008 11:56 am PT
Review:  It was very humorous and entertaining. I have seen every episode of The Simpsons and I enjoyed 
 seeing how some the parts fit in. I really enjoyed the moves like Homers Jalapio Ball and Lisa's 
 Saxophone Spin. Marges moves were questionable due to her only strength is to get people to do 
 her work. The story was flawless, it was all fun and the parodies like Grand Theft Scratchy was 
 really cool. I find there is nothing to do after beating it. If I had my opinion of an improvement, 
 I would like vehicles and access to everywhere without being forced to do the mission to get there. 
 It feels like the Family Guy game all over again. The characters little catch phrases are cute 
 but I heard most of them in The Simpsons: Hit and Run, and Road Rage. It really annoyed me after 
 the game that I couldn't visit the Mall, forest, anywhere after the game without redoing the mission 
 again. It was good not great nor bad fust O. K. Its not what I expected in a Next Generation Video 
 Game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 20, 2008 10:54 am PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is a 3D platformer created by EA Games. It stars none other than America's most 
 famous prime time cartoon family the Simpsons as well as the entire supporting cast found within 
 Springfield. I have to say I had a few laughs when I bumped into the Spanish Bee (whom is one of 
 my favorite characters on the show) . Graphically the game isn't anything too impressive (like other 
 next-gen titles) however all cartoon character models emulate their respective television counterparts 
 very well. All voice actors and actresses bless the game with their presence and deliver a performance 
 as if they were working on one of the weekly shows. The music and atmosphere of the game are great 
 as well. Combine all these aspects together and you will feel fully immersed within Springfield.
 
  
  Without giving the whole plot of the story away you start out as Homer in a tutorial level that 
 explains the basic mechanics of the game. You'll learn the various moves and begin to explore the 
 city collecting character specific items. The sole purpose of these items is to receive character 
 specific trophies after collecting a certain amount. Collecting items is okay and a necessary part 
 in a good platformer, but it's better when said items lead to some sort of character upgrade. Once 
 discovering the 'limited' role these items played in the game, I began ignoring them and proceeding 
 with the game... but I digress. After Bart finds a 'The Simpsons Game' game guide, he and his family 
 soon realize they all have special powers (minus Maggie of course) . They discover that they are 
 in a videogame of their own and proceed through the game with the ultimate goal of figuring out 
 why they have powers. Not much of a plot if you ask me but the game is filled with that quick-witted 
 Simpsons sense of humor we all know and love, which really helps to save the game. There are about 
 18 episodes (levels) which are all joined together by a weird story arc, but the Simpsons are known 
 to getting into crazy situations that don't necessarily make sense.
  
  In addition to having a weak story and platforming for non essential items, the camera can be a 
 pain, especially when playing co-op. True it is fun to tag team with somebody and run through Springfield, 
 but the camera can get in the way and hurt the overall value of the game in the end. Load times 
 further complicate issues as you'll be waiting for the game to load if you keep dying or in between 
 cut scenes and gameplay.
  
  The game can take you about 9 hours to complete. This time includes collecting about a third of 
 the character specific items. Collecting less will reduce the length of the game by an hour or 
 two and collecting all will probably add about four to five additional hours. There is no online 
 functionality and aside from the desire to further explore Springfield and collect all the items, 
 the game offers little to no replay value. If you're a Simpson's fan or like platformers this could 
 make a good rent for the weekend, but I don't recommend buying the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: seansoutar
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 21, 2008 7:55 am PT
Review:  I've been hearing lots of so-so and horrible comments about the Simpsons. Some saying this some 
 saying that. The Simpsons is a very surprisingly good game! The graphics aren't the best, but it 
 is meant to like the TV Series which they did a superb job in doing. The game hits with weird comments 
 from all of the Simpsons. For example in the first stage Homer sees this giant chocolate cake the 
 size of a building and says "There will be enough cake for two birthdays." So I had some real giggles 
 through out the whole game! Also through out the game they spoof other games for example Need for 
 Speedo ( Need for Speed) and Toast Recon ( Ghost Recon ) . So there is nothing special about this 
 game and no major flaws ecept for the fact that The SImpsons is easy and short. The sheer comedy 
 in this game overcomes all! . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 28, 2008 7:54 am PT
Review:  I love The Simpsons. Figurines, posters, books, DVDs, lunchboxes, clothing, dental floss. You name 
 I have it. OK maybe not that extreme, but still, you get my point. So when this came along I got 
 really excited because it looked like The Simpsons cartoon and apprently it was staying true to 
 the nature of the show, which in most repects it did but a few i didn't.
  
  It does genuinely look like th TV show, the guys down at EA have nailed it, almost. There's also 
 a weird mix of cutscenes, sometime you will get a brand new animated one which are excellent. Sometimes 
 you will get a 3D animated job, which look all right but sometime you will gte cutscene done from 
 the gameplay and they look terrible and scruffy and just plain ugly to look at! Which kind of ruins 
 it in a way.
  
  Gameplay is very simple, it doesn't take a genius to figure it all out. However the camera makes 
 it all that more frustrating, it made me want to rip someones head off or something, you can't 
 judge jumps correctly or something and you fall to your doom. It's not on really! Fighting is repetitive 
 and unaffective sometimes and is only spiced up with the individual characters special powers. 
 homer can turn into a massive gelatinous blob, which is fun.
  
  Multiplayer works a hell lot better than single player. Puzzles in the game seem to be constructed 
 for a duo not some singleton loner. It becomes fit-inducing rage in single player because it just 
 isn't as much fun as co-op, and the AI character is a thick as horse muck sometimes, you just feel 
 like shouting out "DUUUH!" when they eventually do what you want them to. Also, the game is criminally 
 short, everything happens so quickly and for all it's worth, it should have been atleast another 
 2 hours longer.
  
  I'm pleased actual script writers from the show wrote the dialogue otherwise it could have all 
 been a bit stale. Thank god they did then, because the humour is the major redeeming factor of 
 The Simpsons. Line after line, it's a constant barrage of stomach-tickling joy. It is funny and 
 entertaining, especially the penultimate level with Matt Groening, legendary!
  
  The story is good, the fact the family gain these super powers and work together to save the world 
 etc. and it is like an extended episode of the show. There is also bags of replay value, like earning 
 trophies, collecting tokens and finding the hilarious Comic Books Guy's Cliches. Levels are fun, 
 especially the mickey takes on other games, my favourite being Happy Happy Fun Fun or whatever 
 it is. Milhouse as the King of Cosmos is classic.
  
  Overall, The Simpsons game delivers a very short solid game which will fall into repetitive gameplay 
 and does have perhaps the most annoying single-player experience of the year but the humour and 
 sheer entertainment values squashes all that is negative and banishes them to hell. Because to 
 be fair that's where they belong. One of the best EA games in a while. Futurama next? Would be 
 awsome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  The best Simpsons game was Hit and Run a few years ago, The Simpsons Game is mostly taking a laugh 
 out of other games that you will see in the game like Medal of Homer, or Grand Theft Scratchey 
 or Neverquest, also meet other look alike game characters like Mario and Sonic or a billboard that 
 says God of Whaf. Alot like a normal episode but you find out that there whole livies that are 
 inside a video game alot like The Matrix.
  Gameplay is easy to get the hang of Homer can turn into a Ball or a Burp expolsion, Bart can use 
 his slingshot to shoot and can also glide, Lisa can use her Saxophone to confuse or make enemies 
 dizzy and Marge can use her Megaphone to call for people to so that you can have an angry mob to 
 repair, bulid or fight enemies, and for Maggie she can crawl into small vents.
  Love the graphics and it's Blu-Ray ness becuase when your playing it feels like your in a sequel 
 to The Simpsons Movie and sounding just normal as the episodes with the main voice actors and jokes. 
 I've always been a Simpsons fan and the game was very enjoyable mostly the game should take you 
 about 10 hours or less to beat this game. There is also Online where if you go through levels you've 
 been through and get the fastest time and be on the Leader's board on Story or Time Trail and you 
 can also play CO-OP with a friend in the game. There many things to collect to unlock trophies 
 or unlockable features in the gme that shoul keep you busy for awhile if you liked Hit and Run 
 you'll enjoy The Simpsons game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MitsubishiGTO
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 29, 2007 6:15 pm PT
Review:  The game is about The Simpsons saving the world from bad bloody killing video games (grand theft 
 auto) . The game is funny in that it makes references to previous classic and current video games. 
 The story is straightforward and to figure out what you have to do, all you have to do is press 
 the start button and read the objective of the mission. The gameplay is fun as you can destroy 
 many objects and each character has their own special abilities. You get to play as Bart, Homer, 
 Lisa and Marge with maggie. You get to go through certain levels having you use each characters 
 abilities in order to help each other out in getting through obstacles. The Simpsons Game is just 
 plain fun, its the Simpsons what else would you expect. Overall the game is a fun time with funny 
 comments and great action that is great fun especially with a second player. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jam96h
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 29, 2007 3:25 am PT
Review:  the simpsons game obviously takes place in springfield .you'll find yourself fighting tree loggers, 
 chocolate rabbits, crazy dolphins and even the people of springfield. there are 4 playable characters 
 bart, homer, lisa, marge and at odd times even maggie can be used for certain tasks. it is a short 
 game but a fun game with hilarious missions. the graphics are good and so is the storyline which 
 has bart find a manual for a video game what tells the super powers that each family member has. 
 if you are connected to the playstation network you can compare your time on missions to other 
 peoples around the world or if your good you get on the scoreboard. this definitely a game you 
 will enjoy. anyone who likes the simpons on tv will love the game alot of people have given this 
 game a bad review but it really isn't that bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 4:55 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game and played almost the entire thing at a friends house in a night. Obviously 
 I did not spend much time doing all of the sidequests, but the game itself was suprisingly well 
 designed. First of all, as I'm sure you have heard, this game is hilarious. Between the voice-overs 
 of your character (you have the choice of playing as any of the simpsons) and the people around 
 you, this game will literally have you rolling on the floor laughing. The controls are simple, 
 and the learning curve is 15-20 minutes. The graphics are unique, a great example of what cell-shading 
 should look like. All in all the game itself is just ok. It has an interesting story that has some 
 crazy plot twists, as you'd expect with a simpsons game, but the real heart of the game is in how 
 funny it is. Honestly I would have put the game down much sooner had it not been for how entertained 
 I was. Give this game a go, whether or not your a simpsons fan. I think you'll enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS360Fanboy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2007 12:40 am PT
Review:  Like many Simpsons fans out there, I was hoping that this would be the title to turn it around 
 for America's favorite animated family in the video game arena. With two-player co-op and a focus 
 on the humor that has made the show a primetime staple since 1989, The Simpsons Game has everything 
 a fan could want... but not everything it needs to be a fun, interesting game. 
  
  The biggest problem is illustrated through one of the game's funniest features: the clich. As 
 you jump and punch your way through each mission, you will encounter hackneyed video game traditions 
 like giant saw blades and pressure pads. Then the Comic Book Guy pops up and calls attention to 
 the blatant unoriginality of these devices ("Ah, the crate. As seen in everything.") . While this 
 almost always gets a laugh, pointing out clichs doesn't make them any more fun to play. 
  
  The development team clearly knew that basic switch puzzles and time trials are tiresome, yet 
 the player is forced to endure them. Even though the goals themselves are sometimes funny, the 
 generic combat and platforming rarely make them fun to complete. There are also dozens of stupid 
 collectibles like coupons and bottlecaps scattered throughout the world. Trust me, they are not 
 worth picking up. 
  
  I know that I'm not making the game sound great - it isn't - but the important distinction here 
 is unlike most mediocre platformers, you are actually rewarded for bullying through the levels. 
 The comedy is so pervasive and well done that it still makes you want to keep going just to hear 
 a good one-liner or see the next hilarious parody. This is the first licensed game I've seen that 
 captures the essence of its source material so well; it sometimes feels like you are playing an 
 episode of the show (albeit with poor cinematography) . 
  
  For all of its self-referential humour and nods to gaming classics (there are brief segments mimicking 
 the likes of Frogger, Missle Command, Space Invaders, and Wolfenstein 3D) , the process of actually 
 playing The Simpsons Game is unfortunately average. The chuckles along the way make it worth the 
 trouble for fans, but unless you're the most ardent Simpson's fan then of the game's redeeming 
 elements will fall on deaf, bored ears. 
  The Simpsons game is fun but lacks something i cant put my finger on.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frederikfrey
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 24, 2007 1:38 pm PT
Review:  Pluses:
  
  - Great and really funny story.
  
  - Great Characters like Mr. Sparkle and other creatures from other series like "Bender" from "Futurama"
 
  
  - Very good voice-acting, not a big surprise since it's the cartoon actors who do them.
  
  - Gorgeous cartoon cut scenes.
  
  - A lot of different game play.
  
  - Nice Collectibles
 
  
  Minuses:
  
  - The controls are not tight enough, a lot of the time you'll find yourself struggling with them.
 
  
  - The camera! It gets stuck many times during the game and sometimes that means that som jumps 
 or other tricky places can be hard to get right.
  
  - Not the longest game in the world.
  
  - I know it's not suppose to be a game about "The Movie" but where is "Spider-Pig"!?!?! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Vademan
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 5:33 am PT
Review:  Being a big Simpsons fan myself, I highly anticipated this game. It does look great, the cell shading 
 is beautifully executed and the cut scenes are very nice, because they seem to be real studio animation, 
 from the creators of the series. 
  
  Like the Gamespot review already states, the overall game play is very basic, your average jump 
 around and hit people platforming, although the superpowers each character possesses, are (sometimes) 
 a strong point for the game. 
  
  After playing the first level with a couple of friends, we had a few good laughs, and we were in 
 awe over the graphics. But the problems started in the eating contest level, where Homer and Bart 
 are supposed to make their way trough a bunch of different, chaotic looking sets, inside the Duff 
 factory. 
  Were to go? What to do? 2 player split screen mode was not very helpful, making it even harder 
 to take in your surroundings, but this game should be more fun playing together with a friend, 
 alas, it really isn't
  Is that a timer up there? Oh No! Timed missions... Time up, try again. And again. And again. The 
 game seems to be trying to be easy, accessible for all ages, but just trying to get Bartman to 
 glide from one pillar to another can be a highly frustrating affair, because the controls for doing 
 this are just plain bad. I've played countless games with the same gliding abilities as Bart has 
 as Bartman, and they were all of them better executed than in this game. 
  The overall controls for all of the characters feel clunky, outdated and awkward.
  
  This problem 
 sadly persist throughout the game, it just feels like EA put all of their energy in getting the 
 graphics and the Simpsons humor right, and forgot all about making a game that plays right. The 
 several timed missions are a big downside, at least in my opinion, and the level design is very 
 unclear and just feels sloppy at times. Like the levels are build in a hurry.
  Another very strange thing: between activating the main levels you can explore the town of Springfield, 
 but for some obscure reason, this cannot be done in 2 player split screen mode, although you still 
 have two main characters in the game, that now only one player can switch between. So if you play 
 together with a friend he or she will have to wait until player 1 is done exploring of decided 
 to skip to the next level. Again, this feels sloppy and might be nothing more than an easy way 
 out for the programmers.
  
  I've not finished the whole game yet, so I might be premature with my opinion, but although the 
 game might be very funny at times, although far from hilarious, and nice to look at, it just really 
 isn't a very good game from a gamers point of view. 
  
  I think I'd much rather play a Ratched and Clank game, now there's a game that knows how to combine 
 humor with outstanding game play.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bluedem0n
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 3:57 pm PT
Review:  This game's unique style makes it very fun to play. Although the game-play can get repetitive, 
 the humor will bring you back into wanting more. The graphics are very unique and fit the Simpsons 
 family perfectly. Although this game is somewhat short if you just rush through it (6-8 hours) , 
 the unique springfield experience makes you want to just explore the beloved Springfield world. 
 The two-player mode is pretty friendly with no limits to how far apart you can be like you see 
 in many games out there. The great thing is that you can jump right into two-player mode and go 
 all the way through to the end of the game. This game is a must have for any Simpsons fan! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SimpsonFan0505
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 10, 2007 2:41 pm PT
Review:  The Simpsons Game is the new Simpsons Game from EA (Electronic Arts) . EA has done a great job at 
 making a game based on The Simpsons.
  
  The whole game is basically a huge parody of many Video games and it's own show. In the game you 
 will see many references to objects on the show ( remember Linguo?) , and you will see alot of making 
 fun of games (Like Medal of Honor, Pokemon, Everquest, Grand theft Auto, etc.) The game is hilarious 
 and has very well-written jokes. They make fun of the NES graphics era and how nobody will play 
 the game once the PS4 and Xbox 720 comes out.
  
  The game actually makes huge parody's like During the level "Big Super Happy Fun Fun Game", you 
 are parodying Pokemon and there are the Pokemon GBA fights where you have to chose and attack, 
 and this is so funny.
  
  The Game always pairs you up with another Simpsons and to beat the levels and puzzles you must 
 be switching between the characters alot and it makes the gameplay more interesting.
  
  Homer: He changes into a Homerball and can knock things over and go off ramps to get to places. 
 Homer can also burp to stun enemies. (Homer can also get a limited power-up to be a Chile fire 
 ball.)
  
  Bart: Bart can change into his super hero self and be Bartman to grapple around cities and shooting 
 enemies with his Sling-shot. (Bart can also have a limited power-up and be Robo-Bart.)
  
  Marge: Marge can control mobs and tell them what to do like build things, kill enemies, and destroy 
 objects, etc. (Marge can also get a limited Power-Up and be Officer Marge.) 
  
  Lisa: She Can use her saxophone and stun enemies, she can be a god-like hand from the sky and movie 
 objects around. (Lisa can also get a limited Power-Up and be Clober Girl, a extra strong super-hero 
 version of herself.)
  
  Maggie is also playable in very short doses in the game and she crawls through vents with a 1st 
 person view camera. This is pretty cool in the game aswell and you have to use her to beat missions 
 aswell.
  
  The game has 16 levels to play through and exclusive to the 360 and PS3 versions is the power to 
 be able to roam Springfield. Speaking of SpringField, they put the town into video game form very 
 well. You wil be running the streets and can go inside Famous places in the cartoon like Moe's 
 and Krusty Burger.
  
  The people walking on the streets are very like-like and you can even talk to them and hit them. 
 The characters are pretty funny and overall being able to explore SpringField is sweet.
  
  Throughout the game, you will see many collectibles and when you get a certain amount of these, 
 your life meter goes up and once you get them all, you get infinite life. The game also has Comic 
 Book Guy's Clitches which he makes fun of all the bad things about video games like how you can't 
 swim and how there are invisible borders. Most of these are pretty funny, and the collectibles 
 add some replay value to the game.
  
  The game controls Ok, but not great, it can be alittle hard to go to some places. The game has 
 a pretty bad camera but it doesn't get in the way to much, but it will get in your way at times 
 and sometimes will even make your character die.
  
  The game has many different villains like a Donkey Kong Rip-off. Madden Football characters, the 
 Killer dolphins (From a Treehouse of Horror Episode) , etc. That is cool that the game has alot 
 of variety.
  
  The game is short and can be beaten in 6-8 hours if you don't go back and collect the hundreds 
 of collectibles and get all the cliches, but I can see my self going back to play this game alot 
 because of this next reason, you can play the whole game with a friend in Co-op. it works well 
 and you don't have to switch between characters in this, and it may be easier getting collectibles 
 aswell.
  
  The graphics during the gameplay are good and closely look like the show, but the cutscenes look 
 amazing, just like the show, but way better. The building and structures of Springfield look like 
 they do in the show, and the characters are very well done. they got the shows animators to help 
 on animate these cutscenes.
  
  The sound in the game is amazing, cause the actual voices from the show like Dan and Nancy (Homer 
 And Bart.) and all the other voices are great. They got the shows writers to write alot of the 
 game, and the sounds in the game are jsut top-notch and couldn't get better.''
  
  The Simpsons game is overall a great experience for comedy fan's and Simpsons Fan's and Gamer's 
 alike. It's actually cool to see a game make fun of itself, and overall this is a darn good game!
 
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: bognman420
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 5, 2007 1:06 pm PT
Review:  over all i give thegame a 9 if ur a simpssons fan the chatracters and the multiple game vids are 
 amazing and hysterical especially when matt groening added some futurama characyters in the end 
 if u like the simpsons i say its a must buy the only downffall to the game is its very short like 
 most of these kid of games but will keep u hooked i ur chair for the whole game couldnt put it 
 down took me 6 hours straight to beat it the actuall game play gets a lil repetitive but still 
 alot of fun so i say if u like the simpsons u bette rplay this game and if u dont why the hell 
 r u readig this chickenman34 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mikelantel
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 9:42 pm PT
Review:  I'm gonna go short review here and just say that while the review is spot on here, I think the 
 score is a little low. Very fun game and had me laughing out loud several times. Some of the cliches 
 are very funny. I really liked the anime themed level. I've played through the game twice now and 
 really enjoyed the second time through to unlock the time trials. Now I'm going to fill in that 
 one hundred word minimum by telling you all that it's sunny outside :) . And turtles are awesome. 
 Why can't I just submit already!? And I have two dogs. I love chocolate. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:44 am PT
Review:  Anyone who wouldn't want to play this game is either a Simpsons hater, or just plain sucks. But 
 i guess if you hate the Simpsons to begin with, you already suck. The Simpsons game uses a new 
 technique to make itslef known, by giving your Simpsons character moves and abilities you would 
 have never guessed they'd have (except Marge's megaphone ability, that i kind of saw coming) . All 
 the Simpsons family members are playable, ( Homer, Marge. Bart, Lisa, and even a little of Maggie) , 
 all of them have their own unique abilities and upgrades. The Simpsons Game is fun with or without 
 a friend. The missions have their own stories to follow, even if some can be found in episodes 
 from the Simpsons. It is also the funniest game ive played this year. You can even interact with 
 your fellow Springfielders, pretty much you can control them, talk to them, or just plain beat' 
 em up. It also uses many many jokes poking fun at some popular games out there right now (these 
 can be levels, Medal of Homer, Grand Theft Scratchy, or just jokes found on posters or billboards 
 throughout the game. God of Warf, Sitar Hero, Need for Speedo)
  The only real issues with the game are the occasionally wonky camera, and the fact that i haven't 
 found a SIXAXIS feature in the game yet. Other than that The Simpsons Game is extremely fun, and 
 extremely funny. Definately worth having. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: soxx9
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 31, 2007 1:53 pm PT
Review:  Having a game of The Simpsons in your collection is just cool. The game is colorful and the visuals 
 are nice. The gameplay is just good and it's just fun to play with one of the most popular TV family's 
 in history. The story of the game is quitte original and the video's in the game are funny and 
 it feels like a normaal episode sometimes. The spund is absolutly amazing. The voice charcters 
 are very wel done and the background music is always nice to hear when you are fighting with chocolate 
 bunny's or mini-clown's. Afcourse there are some negative things about the game. The game is quitte 
 short and the co-op multiplayer is not so fun as it should be. If you play fast or even on a normal 
 way, you should take 6-8 hours to beat the game. But if you take te time to get al the unlockables 
 and special items, there is some more replay value
  
  Overall the game is just good and nice to play. If you like the series of The Simpsons you should 
 definitly buy this game. Even if you don't, it just nice. It's definitly not the best game ever 
 but not all the games has to be systemsellers afther all. Just try it out and lough ... 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
