-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/tigerwoodspgatour08/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 More courses and golfers than last year.
 Game face is a lot of fun, when it works.
 New draw and fade mechanic works well.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Analog swing is too touchy.
 Many features don't work well, if at all.
 Doesn't play as well as last year.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.9, 28 Review (s)
User Score: 7.4, 431 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Salt Lake
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Aug 28, 2007
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tiger Woods 08 is a good game, but it stumbles a bit this year thanks to some unnecessary changes 
 and some new features that don't work well or don't work at all. 

  The Tiger Woods series has long stood atop the charts as the best-selling golf franchise year in 
 and year out. There's typically very little to distinguish one year's version from the next, but 
 the games have always played well, and, judging by the sales numbers, people have been happy with 
 the incremental upgrades. But even those expecting minimal improvements are likely to be disappointed 
 with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 08. There are some new features, but many of them don't work. Also, there 
 are a fair amount of frustrating bugs (particularly in the Xbox 360 version) that give the game 
 a rushed feel. Even the game's most noteworthy feature, the analog swing, doesn't work as well 
 as in previous years.  

           Putting is now easier than ever.      

  TW 08's game modes are almost exactly the same as last year's. New to the PS3 and 360 is bingo, 
 bango, bongo, a head-to-head mode where you are awarded "bingo" for being the first on the green, 
 "bango" for being the closest to the pin when you reach the green, and "bongo" for having the best 
 score. It's OK, but as the lone new play mode it's underwhelming. Online play is largely unchanged -- even 
 the lag issues and glitches are back for another go. Career mode hasn't seen a whole lot of change, 
 but what  is  different is better. You can now choose how long you want standard and major tournaments 
 to be, which is nice for anyone who doesn't want to go through four rounds on the same course for 
 one tournament. Thanks to the addition of Westchester, TPC Boston, Cog Hill, and East Lake, all 
 FedEx Cup courses are in the game. Throw in Harbour Town and there are now 16 courses -- a healthy 
 amount, but still far fewer than in the last-gen versions. There are 21 professional golfers in 
 the game, eight of which are new: JB Holmes, Justin Rose, Camilo Villegas, Cristie Kerr, Morgan 
 Pressel, Paul Casey, Paula Creamer, and Natalie Gulbis. Of the amateur golfers, many, like Pops 
 Masterson, are returning favorites, but there are also some new faces, such as soccer player Wayne 
 Rooney, to play with and against.  

  Once again you start your career as either a rookie Tiger Woods or a created golfer with limited 
 skills. You can improve your skills a little by performing well in events, but you'll want to take 
 the skills challenges, which are largely unchanged, to improve them quickly. The idea is to simulate 
 a golfer getting better by practicing and gaining experience, but it feels artificial thanks to 
 the level caps, which are the same for each skill and go up only when you beat certain tasks in 
 the Tiger challenge. Not only do all golfers end up playing the same (because you tend to level 
 their skills up evenly) , but the process is cumbersome -- especially if you play the series every 
 year. Because your golfer will stink to start off, you won't stand a chance at winning a tournament 
 event. Making you play with such a lousy golfer feels like a contrived, last-ditch effort to make 
 the game challenging. Speaking of artificial challenges, the CPU's tendency to go from making miracle 
 shots to blowing absurdly short putts depending on how close the match is seems more pronounced 
 than ever.  

  Because your golfer isn't much better than the average weekend hacker, you'll spend your time playing 
 the Tiger Challenge until you've gotten the skills and the equipment to take on the tour. Rather 
 than consisting only of 9- and 18-hole challenges against other golfers like last year, the challenges 
 are typically shorter and more varied. There are long drive contests, par-3 challenges, and challenges 
 from the rough and sand. It's certainly more interesting than before, but the sheer number of events 
 means that the challenges still become tedious because there isn't all that much variety to them. 

           If you can get it to work, the game face can be pretty entertaining -- even if the result 
 doesn't always look much like the picture.      

  A few changes have been made to how the game plays on the course -- some good and some not so good. 
 The best addition is the return of the "3 button press" mechanic from early in the series. At any 
 point in the round, you can push the right analog stick in and the meter comes up. You press one 
 button to start the swing, press it again to set the power, and press it a third time to determine 
 accuracy. This works well, which is a good thing considering what EA did to the analog swing. It's 
 extremely sensitive, so the slightest push to the left or right will send your ball sailing into 
 the rough, or, quite frequently, out of bounds. The sensitive stick is most problematic on the 
 Xbox 360, but it's still an issue on the PS3, just to a lesser degree. This is an issue even when 
 using a golfer like Tiger Woods, but it's a huge problem when starting out with a created golfer -- they'll 
 hit the ball everywhere and don't have the power to make up for mistakes.  

  Another change, this time for the better, is how you add a draw or fade to your shot. You just 
 tap a button to instantly teleport to the landing zone (you can hold it down to slowly zoom) , and 
 then add a fade to the shot by pressing left bumper or L1 to move the target to the left, or add 
 a draw by pressing right bumper or R1 to move the target to the right. This works great and really 
 pays dividends when you're hitting off the back tees and are forced to make more creative shots. 
 Putting has gone largely untouched, but now you can check your aim and power by pressing a button 
 to zoom out above the green to see the path the ball will travel. You can't make any adjustments 
 while using this view and you can use it only once per shot -- but it still makes putting too easy. 
 It's no problem at all to drain 50-foot putts; in fact, you'll do it so often you'll come to expect 
 to make them nearly every time.     

   

  And then there are the problems from last year that simply went unaddressed. There's still a crowd 
 lining the course and they're still standing way too close, often getting in the way of shots that 
 just missed the fairway or green. You can fast-forward while the ball is in the air, but you can't 
 skip your opponent's turns and you can't turn off their practice swings or celebrations. Yeah, 
 we got it, Pops is old and grumpy -- can we skip his theatrics next year, please? Whether it's because 
 of the bad lighting, lack of shadows, poor textures, camera angles, or a combination of all four, 
 it can be difficult to read the slope of the green without the help of the putting grid. This makes 
 chipping onto the green more frustrating than it should be, because the ball will just roll right 
 off the green or back toward you because of an unseen change in elevation. On its own it's not 
 a huge problem, but when you combine it with your golfer being terrible to start off and the touchy 
 swing controls, it's just another way to lose a few strokes a round.  

           The Tiger Challenge has more variety this time around.      

  The biggest new gameplay 
 feature, or at least the most hyped feature, is the EA Sports Gamernet. This allows you to save 
 your best, worst, or weirdest shots and share them with the world. Not only can you share them, 
 but you can turn them into challenges for other players to attempt. This is a neat idea, but one 
 that's underwhelming in practice. For starters, as of this writing it doesn't work properly on 
 the Xbox 360; you can make challenges, but you get an error when you try to make a highlight. But 
 the biggest problem is the challenges aren't all that fun. It is nice to be able to play a round 
 and then upload it for a friend to play, but unless you've been challenged by a friend there's 
 little reason to try to bounce the ball off of a building and then onto the fairway, or to spend 
 a half hour trying to drain a 113-foot putt.  

  Once again the great create-a-character mode is back, but this year you can make your likeness 
 more realistic than ever thanks to the photo game face mode. Using the Xbox Vision Camera (which 
 also works with the PS3) , the EyeToy, a USB camera, or pictures uploaded to a Web site, you can 
 create a 3D model of your melon for the game. At least, that's the idea -- too bad it doesn't work 
 very well. None of the digital cameras we tried worked, nor did the Web site where you upload photos. 
 The Vision Camera worked OK, but the results were hit or miss. This seemed due mostly to the limited 
 customization you can perform once the face is rendered. There are plenty of options, but the inability 
 to change skin color or add eyebrows results in some odd-colored heads with no discernable brows. 

  And that's the big problem with Tiger Woods 08; it feels like a good idea that wasn't seen through 
 to completion. There's too much here that simply doesn't work, particularly in the Xbox 360 version. 
 The 360 crashes in the same place during the Tiger Challenge, making it impossible to finish, and 
 you can't upload highlights to the EA server. Both the PS3 and 360 versions have periodic lag, 
 glitches, and freezing issues when played online; the game face upload site doesn't work; and the 
 single-player suffers from glitches like golfers vanishing, taking drops when they weren't supposed 
 to, and a way-too-sensitive analog swing.  

           Raise your hand if the game feels rushed.      

  Tiger Woods 08's graphics are virtually 
 indistinguishable from Tiger Woods 07's. For the most part the golfers look like their real-life 
 counterparts. Each player has a unique swing, which is good, but they look lousy in motion. Players 
 will warp from one position to another when preparing to address the ball; sometimes they don't 
 appear to hit the ball at all; and there are frequently hitches in their swing. When the camera 
 is still the courses look great, but when it starts panning around or following the ball the frame 
 rate takes a bit of a hit and the grass looks lousy. Other objects, like rocks and many trees in 
 the distance, look downright awful, moving or not. Even with the addition of more-dramatic camera 
 angles for your opponent's shots (which often are horrible) , the presentation is dry and in sore 
 need of an upgrade -- and that includes the commentary.  

  People who worry about yearly releases diluting the quality of games have plenty of ammo in the 
 form of Tiger Woods 08. The changes to the gameplay are minimal, and some of them make the game 
 worse. There are only five new courses, and many new features don't feel fleshed out, don't work 
 well, or flat-out don't work. The PlayStation 3 version is the one to go with if you have the choice. 
 It's a good game with fewer issues than the 360. Xbox 360 owners should just stick with Tiger Woods 
 07.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (15 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: designedfailure
Rating: 7
Date: May 10, 2008 10:43 pm PT
Review:  So for many years now, Tiger Woods PGA has felt like the same thing over and over with very little 
 new material making its way into the game. This year, EA decided to add a few features to the game, 
 but in the end, just mess things up.
  
  There is a new twist to the game face system this year, where you are able to take your face and 
 import it into the game and edit it from there. This would be a cool feature if it worked correctly. 
 The website often doesn't work and the face just doesn't look that good when it does work. This 
 is a feature that should stay in the game, but some fine-tuning is definitely needed.
  
  Perhaps the most disappointing thing to make its way to the game is an overhauled swing system. 
 For a long time now, the analog swing has been as close to perfect as could be expected, but EA 
 decided to make the system a little more touchy, rewarding players for hitting good shots-but also 
 severely punishing them for often slight mistakes. There has always been the slice or hook when 
 the swing wasn't done well, but this year it feels as though a shot literally needs to be perfect 
 or you might as well kiss the thought of a good hole goodbye. Why the designers felt the need to 
 mess with one of the strongest parts of the game is baffling, considering many players have spent 
 hours perfecting the technique. There is a three-click alternative, but that just seems to take 
 away the control aspect and makes it seem as though you're giving a suggestion on how to hit a 
 shot, rather than actually hitting it.
  
  As far as looks are concerned, it's nothing special. It's time for the game to get a face-lift 
 and wow players again. It's not ugly, but nothing really pops out either. For a next generation 
 game, it certainly should look better than it does.
  
  All and all, the game is probably not worth buying, especially if you have 07, as nothing special 
 has been added and the swing system is much better in 07. Hopefully when 09 comes out, the game 
 will finally make us remember why we fell in love with the Tiger Woods games in the first place. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DawgcityClev
Rating: 5
Date: Apr 6, 2008 2:44 pm PT
Review:  First off, the graphics are nice. Animations are nice. Voiceovers for the characters you create 
 are trash. I create a Black character, yet his voice sounds like a White Woodsman from Montana. 
 
  
  Secondly, the realized and unrealized potential is disgusting. You will literally have unrealized 
 potential higher than 35% and sometimes as much as 65% yet you won't be playing like it. And no 
 matter how much you train skills or defeat people in the Tiger Challenge, it wont move. I was stuck 
 at 10% for a good while to the point I just took the game back. 
  
  Also, when playing the Superhuman computer characters, I noticed your created player will strike 
 the ball ridiculously off the green or out of bounds for no apparent reasons. It's like the A. I. 
 doesn't register that you aren't doing anything wrong accept to cheat you fir it's own cpu players. 
 
  
  You wont be gaining any significant amount of money either. Getting Sponsors isn't as rewarding 
 as before. And quite frankly you'll care less WHO sponsors you, as unlockables arent worth a crap 
 as previous games. 
  
  I'd rent this before wasting $60 for it. EA is still a Company set on stripping pockets, rather 
 than put out quality products. I hate EA's Sports titles, but I did enjoy Tiger Woods, even with 
 the minor flaws of previous titles. It was the only game that kept me with EA. They'd better get 
 it together for 09 or I'll be completely done with them. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: godabodabe
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 13, 2008 3:45 pm PT
Review:  i'll start with pros.... graphics are amazing, photo face thingy is really really cool. ok now 
 that thats out of the way here are the cons... analog control is EXTREMELY sensitive. dont expect 
 to hit the fairway or anything else off the bat with an accuracy higher than 60%. the skill level 
 cap is very discouraging at first and prevents you from doing well at the beginning of the game 
 with your created character. the first course i played on the pga tour was the prince course which 
 was very very difficult for a first course. after messing up a handfull of drives my confidence 
 was so bad that i couldnt even get it on the fairway anymore. just please rent before you buy or 
 else you're in for a very big disappointment. i really really wanted to enjoy the game but could 
 not even stay at par, which only led to yelling and screaming at my in game character (who really 
 did look just like me) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Scubei
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 28, 2008 9:23 am PT
Review:  Being an avid Tiger Woods fan, I've played these games for a few years with s close set of friends. 
 Being the first of us to get the PS3 I had to get Tiger 2008. 
  I really like the graphics on this game. Not the best on PS3, but come on its a golf game. Lets 
 start with the GAMEPLAY. Being a good player, I thought I would just smash the comp right away..... I 
 was wrong! The analog swing is VERY touch sensitive at first, but you will build up your stats 
 and it gets to where you just "know" how much OOPHM to put on your shots. Now EXTRAS..... in the 
 extras dept. tiger is full of it! The extra game play modes are great. The different modes of play 
 will keep you busy for a long time. BUILDING YOUR GOLFER......... it starts slow and to build your 
 guy up you need to play mini games (which really teaches you how to play) , and the TIGER WOODS 
 MODE. This mode will let you play different golfers in different modes. Plus you will have long 
 drive challenges and the such. 
  I would tell anyone thinking about getting this game, to head out and buy it. It is a great game, 
 plus saving your best shots and letting other try to best them is a wonderful idea. The gameface 
 maker is a neat idea, but flawed. If you wanted to use that mode of character creation I would 
 spend a lot of time to get it right. In the end this is the best tiger woods to date. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cdm289
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 8, 2008 2:29 am PT
Review:  Having been a big fan of the TW series since 2005 version on the PS2, the basic mechanics of the 
 game haven't changed much. 08 isn't vastly different to 07 it just has more content, courses, golfers 
 and game face eqiupment. I like the Fade/Draw set-up option as you can use this on dog legs or 
 in windy conditions. Overall it plays a solid game of golf. EA still have this market cornered 
 so do they really need to change the game that much year on year? I just wish they would add more 
 courses. It would be nice to play a PGA Tour year without returning to the same courses for different 
 events. I'm sure EA could add about 30 courses onto a Blu-Ray disk or make them downloadable and 
 add them to the season. As this game has been going for a number of years now EA must of mapped 
 at least 30 different real courses by now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bustew
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 30, 2007 11:31 pm PT
Review:  To get the negativity out of the way first, TW08 has a few graphical issues that detract from an 
 otherwise very good game.
  
  The courses are very well done. The scenery looks great, and the animation of Tiger is very impressive. 
 However, there are instances in which the game stutters (mostly on the hole preview, "flyby" camera) . 
 It is easily correctable (when not playing in career mode) by simply turning off the "tour atmosphere" 
 (might be called something else) . Essentially, you are removing the gallery (which was an unnecessary 
 addition in the first place) . This corrected most of my framerate issues, however on some of the 
 more graphically intense holes (those on the shore, especially Pebble Beach) , there were still 
 a few hiccups.
  
  The gameplay is pure Tiger Woods, with the addition of the the 3 click swing for those that never 
 mastered the analog shot stick controls (which are far more rewarding and enjoyable in my opinion) . 
 You can switch from analog to 3 click at any time, so if you are between clubs and want to take 
 a 3/4 swing using the 3 click method, it is always accessible in game.
  
  The career mode is pretty deep. There is of course, a PGA tour to complete, as well as the "Tiger 
 Challenge," which is a series of short "mini-games" where you have to complete a number of feats 
 against various PGA stars (ex. finish 1-up or better in one-ball on the back nine of Sawgrass against 
 Luke Donald) .
  
  I have been a fan of the Tiger Woods series for a couple years. This edition did not disappoint., 
 aside from the initial let down of realizing that there were some framerate issues. I would recommend 
 this to anyone that likes golf games and is looking to upgrade to the "next-gen" version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dsciandra
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 30, 2007 9:07 am PT
Review:  This review is coming from someone who is a huge fan of the Tiger Woods series on the console. 
 I did the same thing that most of you would do, which is to read the reviews by Gamespot, take 
 a gander at the reviews of some of the members who have played, looked at images and videos multiple 
 times (as is the case when you are on the fence with a title) ... but the fact of the matter is that 
 we usually make up our mind when it comes to a series title and tend to only pay attention to the 
 advice / reviews that support the decision that we already came to. Right?
  
  Basically what I am saying is that I knew I was going to buy TW08, but was a little less excited 
 when I saw the mixed reviews. However, since I loved the previous titles and decided to play off 
 the, 'swing controls are a pain' comments from others and attributed it to the problem of someone 
 who doesn't play golf or played the previous titles... at least that's how I justified it to myself.
 
  
  My point? When I loaded the game up and got past the usual, Hey, the graphics and menu looks cooler 
 than the last version moment... my next reaction was, Eh .
  
  The graphics do look better, however it might as well have been the '07 version with a little extra 
 polish, then repackaged and charged for full price. The gameplay is similar, however... and I hate 
 to concede this... the swing controls are a pain. I play golf, I have played every version of the 
 TW series, I know that this game is not easy, I know how the analog swing control works... yet.... the 
 new controls this time around are way too slice and hook heavy. I would line up, be careful about 
 my backswing to ensure fluid motion, try to keep my thumb straight and... oh look, it went out of 
 bounds, hit a guy in the leg, then fell into the lake and killed a fish for good measure... great. 
 There is an easier swing option, a matter of just clicking a button to power up and another for 
 accuracy... but that seems like a step backwards and as though EA threw it in there, knowing people 
 would dislike the new swing control. The new putting line feature is actually pretty cool, some 
 have complained about it, but I like putting via 'touch' and seeing if I can line it up without 
 assistance, then hitting L1 lets me know if I got the right read... but you can only use it once 
 per putt, which I liked too.
  
  Playing this title feels no different than the last version and I enjoyed the last version more, 
 but this version has more new tweaks that I don't like. Honestly, the promise of fancy new graphics 
 and a couple of new bells and whistles are usually enough to draw me to a title in a series that 
 I like (please see: Madden, NCAA, Splinter Cell etc) . In this case, it's not enough. I can't see 
 every blade of grass as promised, the animations are the same essentially, the commentary might 
 as well have been shoplifted from the past games and stuck into this game for the sake of laziness 
 and not wanting to fix was wasn't perceived to be broken and lastly (but importantly) . the oft 
 touted Game Face is NON-EXSISTENT. Every excuse from EA about servers being down, what seems like 
 the need for multiple log in accounts just to access something that isn't working etc... I would 
 just assume that EA refund me about $10 - $20... because I fulfilled my end of the bargain which 
 was to shell out $60 for the game... but they didn't fulfill their end by putting out a complete 
 game, yet still advertising a feature that hasn't worked since day one.
  
  All in all, the game will suffice. I don't love it, yet I don't hate it. I will still fire it up 
 when I feel like playing a peaceful round and will just hit the X button to skip over animations 
 and commentary (since, let's face it, I have seen and heard it all already... in the previous games, 
 nothing really new here) .
  
  On the good side, I do like the changes in variety for the courses you can play, as well as the 
 confidence meter. The graphics do look good, just not as good as I hoped for, frankly some of the 
 best effects are just the water and Tiger looks a little more realistic thanks to motion capture.
 
  
  So, my conclusion? If you liked previous Tiger titles.. well then, like I said earlier, you have 
 already made up your mind and I will help you by saying that you will continue to like it, perhaps 
 not love it though. If you are new to golf sims, TW08 may not be the place to start, perhaps try 
 TW07 to get a better feel for the game and how it should play. Then, there are people like me who 
 have the Hi-Def TV, the PS3 and always want the newest version of a game anyway for the newest 
 graphics etc... well then you can join my support group and sign the petition for an EA $10-$20 
 refund. Power to the people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve_h333
Rating: 3
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:56 am PT
Review:  On the online play unless you have an amazing connection it will just crash all the time. Leaving 
 you to have to turn your ps3 off then on again. Which is really frustrating. even if your ps3 doesn't 
 crash and you do get through to the game. The person who your playing will prob-ley not get through 
 leaving you without a game.
  The single player version gets boring after a wile because you just seem to do the same thing over 
 and over again. It would be better if it had a better story line. Overall it was a really disappointing 
 game and i would defiantly not recommend it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: davedouble16
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 5:32 am PT
Review:  Another year, another Tiger Woods game.
  
  Being the massive Tiger Woods game fan that I am, I had to get this no matter what, Its just one 
 of those series of games that I buy every year.
  
  This years Tiger plays alot like the previous installment. The analogue swing stick is still there, 
 which is a plus of course. In my opinion its the best swing system ever created for a golf game.
 
  
  The create-a-golfer feature is still pretty much the same as last year, but with new content like; 
 new clubs, balls, hats, and other apparel.
  
  The newest and arguably, most impressive feature this year is Tiger GameFace. This is a great feature... if 
 you can get it wo work that is. I don't know how long I spent, and how many photos I tried to upload 
 to the GameFace site, and after trying to generate a Face 4 or 5 times, I eventually got one that 
 looks.... well, reasonable. I'm not going to say its a great likeness, but it looks good enough 
 anyways.
  
  Also new this year is the Putt Preview, which with one tap of the L1 button when putting, gives 
 you a path-line of where the ball would go should you decide to swing away. You only get to use 
 this once per hole however, so use it wisely.
  
  Career mode and Tiger Challenge mode remain pretty much the same. Tiger Challenge seems to have 
 alot more challenges that last year however, which is a good thing.
  
  I haven't yet had a chance to try out Online mode fully yet. Anything must be an improvement on 
 last years online mode .
  
  GamerNet is another new feature this year in Tiger Woods PGA Tour. This allows players from all 
 over the world to upload their best shots, rounds, or best holes for other players to watch and 
 challenge, to earn Points. Some challenges set by players can be extremely difficult to match, 
 hence you will be given more points for doing so.
  
  All in all Tiger Woods 2008 is a great game for fans old and new to the series, I thoroughly recommend 
 it.
  
  :twisted: Dave :twisted: 
::::::

::::::
UserName: btaylor2404
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 30, 2007 10:35 pm PT
Review:  This game seems to be getting blasted for the very reasons why I think it's great. The analog stick 
 is VERY sensitive. If you have too hard of a time with it turn it off. That simple. Also the new 
 game types are fun, one ball is great, not so much wtih bingo bongo whatever. The graphics are 
 great, and online it plays almost as smooth as on one player. The gamerface is a neat addition, 
 nothing earthshattering but it does turn out to look pretty much like you if you can finally get 
 it to work. If you buy Tiger every year, get this game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tretcharuss
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 12:21 pm PT
Review:  I am sick of reviewers who cry and moan that the analog swing is too touchy. I am an avid golfer 
 so I know that it is a difficult game. The only way to play this game is on Tour Pro difficulty. 
 All the other levles are too arcadey and unrealistic. But, on Tour Pro it is very realistic. It 
 is unfortunate though that EA can't get it together with the photo face thing. It would be nice 
 too see your face in the game, hopefully they will get it sorted out soon.
  
  I would say if you want this game and you love golf it is a no brainer. But, you must play on Tour 
 Pro difficulty and take advantage of the driving range and putting greens to help you with your 
 tempo. But, all in all this game is very good, don't listen to people who have never played real 
 golf. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: thetruefoz1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 8:50 pm PT
Review:  I was looking forward to this game, I just got the ps3 and was ready to step into high-def gaming. 
 What a disappointment. The course looks like I'm playing on PS1 and tiger's pants look like they're 
 made out of legos. It's grainy all around, definitely not high-def like you'd expect. Grab Tiger 
 07 for PS2 and you have a superior product. Also I was looking forward to the three-click swing 
 mechanic coming back but it just doesn't feel right. Should have taken a page from Hot Shots Golf 
 4. Do yourself a favor and just skip this, wait for HSG 5. It may be cartoony, but it least you 
 can enjoy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SalarianChemist
Rating: 4
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:25 am PT
Review:  The best golf game I ever played was the 2007 version of Tighter Woods PGA Tour on the Xbox 360. 
 That game had an excellent feel to it that was great in every way.
  
  I have already had the chance to play both the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 versions of PGA Tour 
 08. I have to say, there is no doubt about it that both the Xbox 360 and Playstation 3 versions 
 are NOT as good as the Xbox 360 version from last year. That one is definitely still the best!
 
  
  The one thing that I noticed about the controller sensitivity is actually something good about 
 PGA 2008, but Gamespot Editor Aaron Thomas calls it a glitch. 
  
  For example, it's common knowledge that the Playstation 3 analog sticks aren't as sensitive as 
 the Xbox 360 analog sticks. If you just Slightly press the analog sticks, then there isn't a glitchy, 
 feel... it is just really sensitive, and it takes some practice.
  
  I have to say that the controls in both versions do feel too sensitive, though.
  
  No doubt 
 about it; If you already have Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 for the Xbox 360, then keep it.
  
  If you don't have a golf game yet, then Gamespot is right, the one to get is the 2007 version of 
 PGA Tour for the Xbox 360. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Caravan19
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 29, 2007 7:09 pm PT
Review:  The controller/analog stick works much better than last years game (the perceived %'s on the swing 
 model seem more accurate) and the graphics are luscious with a 46 bravia and HDMI. I felt the presentation 
 was excellent..... you can change the difficulty as always to suit your skill. As I write this the 
 website was so ovewhelmed with people trying to send in their own faces, the whole site went..... CRASH 
 BOOM. I really think this edition is a step in the right direction. So if your new to The Tiger 
 Woods experience this will be sweet and for those veterans of the franchise expect some nice surprises. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karmaxdust
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 12:04 pm PT
Review:  You can flame me all you want but the fact of the matter is the PC version of this game is far 
 more superior than the console version. I do not like using the analog stick to swing. Swinging 
 with the mouse is so much smoother. The grahpics are horrible as well, nothing like the PC version. 
 Sound quality I do not like, ball flight is done very poorly.
  Overall I will give this game a 5/10. If you have a choice between getting it for a console or 
 PC, definetely go with the PC version.
  Oh and by the way I know the game is just released, but when I went online I saw 3 people in the 
 lobby. And also the gameface will not upload, there is something wrong with EA's server. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
