-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/tigerwoodspgatour07/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Plenty of great-looking fictional and licensed golfers.
 Best create-a-character around.
 True aim system adds a new level of challenge.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Has nine fewer courses than the PlayStation 2 and Xbox versions.
 Not enough variety in the training challenges.
 David Feherty and Gary McCord have worn out their welcome.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 17, 2006
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.2
Critic Score: 8.1, 31 Review (s)
User Score: 7.7, 433 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: EA Sports
Developer: EA Redwood Shores
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Nov 14, 2006
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An improved aiming system, awesome create-a-character options, and top-notch gameplay help the Tiger 
 Woods series get off to a great start on the PlayStation 3. 

  Fresh off strong appearances on "last-gen" consoles and the Xbox 360, Tiger Woods makes his debut 
 on the PlayStation 3. Anyone who has played the series on the PlayStation 2 will find that Tiger 
 Woods PGA Tour 07 on the PS3 plays quite a bit different than what you're used to, though the game 
 is virtually identical to the Xbox 360 version -- which is a good thing. The create-a-character is 
 better than ever, the courses look great, and an all-new aiming system makes the game more challenging 
 than ever. There's still room for improvement, but Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is a great golf game 
 that plays as good as it looks.  

          Creating your own golfer is still one of the game's highlights.     

  There's certainly 
 no shortage of ways to occupy yourself with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. You can select from a number 
 of different match and scoring modes, including stroke play, match play, skins, practice, stableford, 
 alternate shot, best-ball, and four-ball. Battle golf is a twist on match play, where the goal 
 is to win the most holes -- as it always is in match play -- but here you are able to remove a club 
 from your opponent's bag after each hole you win. Needless to say, it's great fun to watch your 
 rival tee off on a par five with a two-iron because you've taken all of his woods. Bloodsome and 
 greensome matches are both team-based best-ball events. After you and your teammate hit your shots 
 in greensome, you get to pick which ball you're going to play; in bloodsome, your opponent will 
 choose which lie you'll use. One-ball is a new game where you and your opponent share the same 
 ball and alternate shots. The strategy in one-ball lies in trying to set your opponent up with 
 difficult shots so that you're the one left with a makeable putt. If you're the one who drains 
 the putt, you win the hole. Before each shot, a large blue ring that represents the target area 
 appears on the course. This is the area in which your shot must land, or else it's a "betrayal," 
 and you'll lose a turn. For example, on a par four you may be able to put the ball on the green 
 with your second shot, but that will leave your opponent with a putt -- and that's not good. You 
 can, however, shoot the ball into a sand trap that surrounds the green, thereby forcing your opponent 
 to be the one who has to put the ball on the green. This play mode is great for learning how to 
 recover from bad shots, but it can be frustrating to play against the tenacious CPU and is best 
 played against another person.  

  Right off the bat you'll notice the improved presentation. As soon as the game loads the camera 
 sweeps around a beautiful driving range, finally zooming in on Tiger, who's juggling a ball with 
 his club, a la the Nike commercial from a few years back. From here you can immediately hit the 
 range to practice or jump into a quick game, but you're encouraged to immediately create a golfer 
 so that you may embark on a career. Tiger's unrivaled character creation mode makes it a breeze 
 to create a male or female golfer in your spitting image, and you're limited only by your imagination 
 when it comes to making zany, off-the-wall characters. You can also customize your player's swing, 
 as well as their reactions.  

  Your created golfer has unlimited potential, but at first they stink. It's up to you to head to 
 the training course to help them develop their skills. Each of your golfer's attributes -- power, 
 power boost, ball striking, driving accuracy, putting, recovery, approach, and spin -- can be improved 
 by completing short minigames. You can face other golfers in a longest-drive or putting contest, 
 play quick, competitive rounds of T-I-G-E-R or 21, and race the clock in minigames that test your 
 mettle with long irons and your shot-recovery skills. The number of minigames is impressive, but 
 many of them are little more than slight variations of each other. After completing a challenge 
 your individual attributes are raised, based on what skills the challenge focused on, as well as 
 your performance. In an effort to keep people from training their golfer over and over before venturing 
 out on the course, your attributes are now capped based on your experience. You'll need to actually 
 go out and win some matches before you're able to go any higher than 25 percent in any skill category. 
 This does work as the developer intended, slowing your progression through the game, but it's frustrating 
 to have a skill artificially held back when you've already earned the points to raise it. Should 
 your skills need a little boost, you can always pick up some new clubs or some jewelry for a small 
 skill bonus. New equipment and clothing can be purchased in the pro shop, which, thanks to a new 
 sorting option, is easy to browse.  

          You're going to spend lots of time on the training course.     

  The team tour mode 
 from the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and PC versions is nowhere to be found; it has been replaced by the 
 Tiger challenge. Here you'll take your created golfer up against fictitious golfers like Pops Masterson 
 and Big Mo, PGA professionals, and, eventually, Tiger himself. It's understandable that EA wanted 
 to show off new animation for each golfer, but the inability to skip your opponents' turns makes 
 rounds last far too long. However, you can skip the CPU's pre- and post-shot routines once they've 
 started, and you're able to fast-forward their shots once they're in the air. If your interests 
 lie in more-traditional golf, the PGA Tour season, which now uses the FedEx points system to rank 
 players for the PGA's new playoff format, offers up more of a challenge than ever before. You'll 
 first need to train your golfer and then win a few matches in the Tiger challenge, or your golfer 
 won't have a prayer against the punishing schedule of four-day tournaments. You can simulate rounds 
 of a tournament and you don't have to enter every event, but it really would have been nice to 
 have the option of setting how long you'd like tournaments to last.     

  Should you grow tired of playing solo, you can head online for a greater challenge. There are daily 
 tournaments, ranked and unranked rounds of stroke and match play, as well as alternate game modes, 
 such as best ball, battle golf, three-hole golf, skins, one-ball, four-ball, and alternate shot. 
 Online play is just as smooth on the PS3 as it is on the Xbox 360. There's a small amount of ESPN 
 integration, but it's limited to a ticker that runs across the bottom of the screen, short text 
 news stories, and brief ESPN Radio SportsCenter updates every 20 minutes.  

  If you just want to stick to the pros, you can; there are 15 professional golfers (and a host of 
 fictional golfers) in Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. The list includes the likes of Tiger Woods, Colin 
 Montgomerie, Justin Leonard, John Daly, Jim Furyk, Mike Weir, Retief Goosen, Vijay Singh, and Rich 
 Beem, among others. For the first time, LPGA legend Annika Sorenstam is a playable character. There 
 are 12 courses -- a respectable number, but underwhelming when compared to the PlayStation 2 and 
 Xbox versions of the game, which have an impressive 21 courses. Joining favorites like TPC at Sawgrass 
 and Pebble Beach are Firestone Country Club, Glen Abbey, the Prince Course at Kauai, Spyglass Hill, 
 Bandon Dunes, and the vaunted Scottish course, St. Andrews. There's no course designer -- still one 
 of the series' most glaring omissions after all these years. You can put together your "dream course," 
 using holes from any of the 12 courses in the game, but this doesn't make up for not having a true 
 course editor.  

          The game looks great, and the presentation is much better this year as well.     

  
 Tiger 07's gameplay isn't vastly different than other games in the series, but there are a few 
 changes that make the experience more challenging and enjoyable. Swinging your club uses the tried-and-true 
 method of pulling down and then pushing up on the left analog stick. You can add a draw or a fade 
 by moving the left analog stick down and then up at an angle during your swing. The right stick 
 is used to change where you address the ball. You can hit under the ball to add loft and backspin 
 to a shot, while striking the ball above the center gives your shot a lower trajectory with lots 
 of topspin. A little extra oomph can be put on your shot by pressing L1 or the X button during 
 your swing, and spin is added by pressing the same buttons and a directional while the ball is 
 in flight. The Sixaxis' motion-sensing capabilities aren't put to the test here. You can add spin 
 to the ball by holding L1 or X and rotating the controller in the direction you want the ball to 
 spin. This method works just fine, but the game's not really any better for its inclusion. A new 
 system called "true aiming" makes shot selection a less by-the-books affair by replacing the cursor 
 that essentially pinpointed where your shot would land with a large circle that covers a much wider 
 area. If you hit your shot just right, the ball should land somewhere in that circle. Should you 
 miss, however, you're likely to end up in serious trouble. When using golfers with higher levels 
 of skill, the circle doesn't come into play too often, but anyone playing with a new golfer will 
 frequently find themselves questioning if the extra 10 yards of distance on a club is worth the 
 increased size of the landing zone. You can still take huge risks -- you're just more likely to pay 
 for them now.  

  The standard control scheme for putting works much in the same way it did in previous years, with 
 a few noticeable changes. You still use the left stick to putt, but you can now add a little extra 
 speed by using the right stick to hit the top of the ball, adding topspin. Conversely, you can 
 take some speed off of a putt by hitting it lower and adding some backspin. Both of these options 
 come in handy for putts that are on either side of the putter's power level. An overlay is placed 
 on the green, and you'll need to read the slope by how fast the white dots move along the grid. 
 This is more important than ever because the ideal putt-cam that shows you the ideal putting line 
 is gone -- at least on the default difficulty level. It's still available on the easy setting, and 
 you can turn it on in the game options. Veterans of the series shouldn't have much of a problem 
 adjusting to life without the putt-cam. The basic system is very familiar and it's forgiving enough 
 that you'll still be able to make long putts, except now you won't be making them on every hole. 

  There's no question that Tiger Woods 07 is an impressive-looking game. The created golfers look 
 wonderful and have a host of unique animations to bring them to life. Each golfer has a unique 
 swing, which makes them not only look different but also play different. The professional players 
 generally look good, but there are a few that look pretty rough, and many of their animations are 
 canned and repetitive. Tiger, of course, looks great, as do Annika and Vijay. John Daly doesn't 
 look a whole lot like the real John Daly (perhaps this is a good thing) , and Colin Montgomerie 
 is downright scary. A picture-in-picture window shows player reactions in real time as the ball 
 is in the air. This is entertaining for a bit, but most of the golfers don't react in any way that's 
 worth watching more than a few times.  

  Courses also look better than ever, though like in the rest of the game, there's room for improvement. 
 Vibrant colors, crisp visuals, and little touches, such as flocks of birds flying over the green 
 or waves breaking along the shore, make each course beautiful. On the negative side, some shadows 
 appear and disappear for no reason, green and fairway textures don't look so hot upon close inspection, 
 and the rocks on the cliffs at Pebble Beach are last-gen quality at best. Though it never affects 
 gameplay, the frame rate is a little unstable during some of the fly-bys that take place before 
 each hole. Crowds line each hole and will track the ball as it's hit. You can even watch them run 
 up and down the side of the fairway as they scramble for a better view. Unfortunately they don't 
 make much of an effort to get out of the way of your ball. This is a big problem after a drive, 
 where any chance you may have had of your ball rolling onto the fairway is routinely killed by 
 a fan who's anchored to the ground. Occasionally this works in your favor, particularly around 
 the greens when fans sacrifice their bodies and keep errant shots over the green from going too 
 far away.  

          Annika makes a welcome first appearance in the Tiger Woods series.     

  Most of the 
 audio in Tiger Woods 07 sounds good -- or as good as can be expected from a golf game. The crowds 
 are lively and react with enthusiasm to a great shot. David Feherty and Gary McCord are back and 
 seemingly have nothing new to say. The commentary plays it too straight in a game that's otherwise 
 full of personality. Their negative comments appear to have been toned down a bit, but the duo 
 still drinks "Haterade" and just loves to rub it in after a poor shot. For the most part their 
 observations are accurate, though they'll occasionally praise you for hitting the ball in the rough 
 and chastise you for what ends up being a perfectly good shot. Should you choose to forgo the announcers, 
 there are lots of ambient noises to listen to instead. You'll hear birds chirping, planes flying 
 overhead, and, on Pebble Beach, the sea crashing into the cliffs.  

  A few people may lament the series' shift toward realism, but almost universally, the changes and 
 additions serve to make Tiger Woods 07 on the PlayStation 3 (and the Xbox 360) the best game in 
 the series. The courses are beautiful, the golfers look better than ever, and of course, the create-a-character 
 is second-to-none. But there are a few things that could have been better. Twelve courses is still 
 on the low side of what one would expect from a Tiger Woods game, a lot of the different modes 
 and minigames feel the same, and with many of the graphics being outstanding, the ones that aren't 
 so great are more noticeable. That said, it's an excellent game, and if you're searching for a 
 great round of video game golf, Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is what you're looking for.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (19 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: mgdhoki
Rating: 9.5
Date: Apr 15, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  Tiger 07 is probably the best game in the series. The difficulty is pretty close to real golf. 
 If you don't allow your player to max out the skills at 110, but keep them in the 85 range, or 
 use one of the Pro Golfers (who are in the 85-92 average range, except for Sunday Tiger) then the 
 courses are challenging and the game is quite realistic.
  The dynamics which cause the ball to react that realistically off the face of the club and around 
 the greens were lost when EA chose to change the game going into '09.
  I will continue to play this game, online and off, until EA comes out with another challenge which 
 can compete. And I hope that Playstation, or EA, continues to allow online play for as long as 
 players keep coming to the lobby.
  
  One example of the difficulty of the game, and the complexity of the shots required, is that in 
 3 years of playing the game, there have been maybe 5 holes in one recorded. I have hit 3 holes 
 in one in one round in Tiger '09. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: phantom_blade66
Rating: 9
Date: Feb 26, 2009 5:05 pm PT
Review:  Never thought golf games would be able to hold my attention but this one proves me wrong. Tiger 
 Woods is so simple to use yet still challenging that since I bought it I haven't stopped playing 
 it. The custom golfer ability is amazing and incredibly indepth. One can adjust everything from 
 each individual facial feature down to the muscle size of the golfer. I took my time creating my 
 golfer and now I've spent hours training and upgrading my player. The graphics are amazing and 
 the gameplay is easily picked up right away. THe various difficulty levels keep even the most serious 
 gamers happy. This game has lead to some big money tournaments while I'm at school and keeps us 
 wide awake and up late into the night playing it. This is near the top of my list for best sport 
 games I've ever played. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanky333
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 6, 2008 8:04 pm PT
Review:  I believe the term "undulating" is necessary here. Not just because it is an impressive word, but 
 also because it sounds like I am very much more clever than I am in saying it.
  The game is about as perfect a golf game as I would ever want. The stick swing control is awsome, 
 the loft and spin right stick feels perfect, and hurray for putting power boost on the X button. 
 No more funky controller dances trying to get power!
  The courses are just detailed enough to make you feel like you are standing in the valley at Glen 
 Abby or driving over peoples back gardens in St. Andrews. The graphics really shine in the character 
 design however. Some of the golfers facial expressions are eerily realistic. 
  The physics are great, the online is very rarely a chore, and if there is any trouble it is usually 
 EA's entire network acting up so patience is a virtue.
  The sound in this game is so realistic you will be shocked when you turn it off and all the birds 
 stop chirping and that single engine plane you swore was gliding over your house disappears. It's 
 amazing stuff.
  The commentating is uniform, and can get downright abusive in this version, but I think over all 
 it is still the best one could ask for. Very experienced and sometimes contrasting commentators 
 add flavour to an already tasty blend of character and familiarity.
  Undulating.
  See?
  Buy Tiger Woods 07, I am guessing it is all the Golf anyone is going to need on this console. Unless 
 EA yanks the plug on the online when 09 comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian_armstrong
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 18, 2008 4:11 am PT
Review:  Tiger woods PGA Tour 07 is a great golf sim which is extremely realistic and addictive. It takes 
 a while to get the hang of the swing but then the game comes into its own. One of the best features 
 is the create a player function with a large range of customisation avaliable. The career mode 
 is addictive as usual and it has many of the largest golf tournament and most famous courses such 
 as pebble beach. The mini games are a fun addition and you can play them against a friend. There 
 is a large range of branded merchandise such as nike, oakly and calloway. The gameplay is good 
 when you get the hang of it and although at the start you may be shooting way over par, with practice 
 you will soon be at the top of the leaderboard. There are also alot of real life players such as 
 Monty, Goosen and John Daly although some are mising such as Mickelson and Garcia. All said though 
 this is a brilliant golf game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 6, 2008 10:02 am PT
Review:  I wouldn't consider this game to be next gen, and it still needs a lot of work for it to be perfect, 
 but if your looking for a good golf game and don't care about the little things, it's a game worth 
 getting. The graphics might not be top notch, but they have good detail and are bright and colorful. 
 This game can prove to be very challenging, sometimes it can get a little aggravating. I think 
 the putting system need some major work, it even looks weird because it looks like you are taking 
 a full swing at the ball when you are really just tapping it in. There are great customizations 
 which is very fun to use. This game is definitely not worth $60, but when it goes down in price, 
 you might want to check this one out. It's a solid game which you can't go wrong with, so if you 
 are in to golf games, go try this one out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Shischkabob
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 8, 2007 4:34 pm PT
Review:  What can I say about this game other then it is a great game I really enjoy playing it. The game 
 play is very well done with smooth everything. The players move like actually people would, the 
 trees sway back and forth in the wind and the water ripples like it really would. I also like all 
 the different choices in clubs whether its the 8.5 degree lofted club or the 10.5 degree lofted 
 club. You can even customize your character to what kind of shocks you player wears or what decal 
 is on the golf ball he is using. I also liked all the different irons, putters, drivers, and woods; 
 these clubs offer a personal feel to the game that most games cannot give to the game player. Another 
 big positive for the game is the create-a-player application. The possibilities are endless with 
 creating what your player looks like from the style and color of hair to the size of the players 
 muscles. Also the wide range of clothing options offers a way for the player to make their player 
 personal to them. I can guarantee that absolutely no game player has the exact same created player 
 because that is just how many possibilities there are. Another positive aspect of the game is the 
 size storyline. Sure it does repeat after a year but with the large number of different course 
 offers an aspect of play that requires the game player to adjust their game according to the course 
 they are playing on. A game player cannot play the same at St. Andrews compared to playing a tournament 
 at Pebble Beach. I also like the field of play with the different environmental possibilities from 
 sunny and nice to gloomy and windy. Having to complete all of the objectives is very challenging. 
 Having to get all of the Eagle balls, beat Tiger Woods balls, and all of the trophies take a long 
 time to get but it is a lot of fun getting there. Also all of the mini games add to the game play 
 these are an easy way so someone doesnt lose interest in the game and it also offers a way for 
 a player to earn more money if they are short on cash. There really isnt much bad to say about 
 this game other then I wish the online play was a little better. The online play is glitchy and 
 it really isnt entertaining at all. Overall this game is very well done there really isnt much 
 that needs to be changed. I really enjoyed playing this game and I also still enjoy playing it. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Dentyne
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 26, 2007 4:36 pm PT
Review:  For one of the early release titles on the ps3, Tiger Woods 2007 turned out to be quite fun. The 
 graphics for the game are stunning and gameplay is great. Sounds such as commentary is repetitive 
 and the sound of a golf shot is very convincing. Animation and mechanics of the game is lifelike 
 and there is a high replay value. When you start off in career mode, your golfer has horrible attributes 
 and skill, which makes winning any tournament very hard. THis can become fustrating. It takes forever 
 to train your golfer into a decent player which can also lead to fustration. Overall this game 
 is worth buying. Playing against the cpu is fun and the AI can be challenging. The putting aspect 
 of the game can be hard at first, but once you get use to it, it gets pretty easy to make birdies. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chriswolves1
Rating: 8.2
Date: May 25, 2007 11:58 pm PT
Review:  There are some cool minigames, I especially like the one ball game mode. Very fun for two players. 
 They really need to add in PGA tour mode for 2 players though. I should be able to load my created 
 player, and anyone who wants to play along with me could load theirs, and we'd play in the tournament 
 together. This was an option for 2006 on PS2. Hopefully they will add it for next years game. Of 
 all the sports games I play, this is the only one where I leave the background music on, they always 
 seem to have a good soundtrack (call me crazy, but I like the more mellow music, it fits well with 
 a golf game) . The game is very high priced for what you are getting out it of them at this point. 
 Try getting it on Ebay for much less than the $60 store price. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bakalah
Rating: 9.4
Date: Apr 6, 2007 10:21 pm PT
Review:  This game has amazing qualities to it. The customizing of your own golfer, the many different gameplay 
 modes, the online, and much more. As you all know games such as this or Need for Speed titles or 
 other sports games are generally the same across all the consoles. There's only one thing about 
 this that I don't like, in using the DVD size capacity the developers are limited in terms of courses, 
 players, items at pro shop, and just enhancements in general. If the developers made different 
 versions for each system or made exclusives more often on the PS3 we would really be able to have 
 5 times as much stuff in all of these games and that would be ridiculously amazing. Basically, 
 I just wish developers would take advantage of blu-ray and therefore make longer career modes or 
 just more customizations available, the necessities are there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: English_Death
Rating: 5.1
Date: Apr 5, 2007 2:02 pm PT
Review:  I am in the excellent position of being able to pick any game for any of the major systems. So 
 I was looking for a new game for my PS3 that I hadn't got or played on 360 or PC. I have fancied 
 a go at Tiger for a couple of years now. I played the demo on 360 and whilst it was ok, it didn't 
 really ding any bells.
  
  So I bought Tiger for the PS3 looking forward to improved graphics, game play and online gaming. 
 Graphics.
  The same as 360. With no noticeable frame rate increase. Tiger looks reasonably well defined, but 
 not that stunning. The other characters look average. Every now and then your when you land in 
 one place you jump to another. I have landed on the green only to find on my next shot I am in 
 the rough.
  
  Game play.
  The same as 360. Except I notice some strange quirks. Like the comentators say things like looks 
 like he's on the green , after you land on the green, infact most of the comentary happens after 
 the event..... Online Play.
  Now this seems reasonbly good. Whilst, the online is free, it is not as friendly as Xbox live. 
 But once you get a game going with some one then the game gets to be real fun. The joy you get 
 as your opponent on the other side of the earth goes out of bounds is wonderful. This game is average 
 at best. I am sure the Xbox 360 version is just as average, but with better online functionality. 
 The online gaming saves it from the bin.
  
  The PS3 needs it's version of Gears of War, Halo, God of War etc. Ain't got much yet, and don't 
 tell me it's Resistance, because it ain't I know cos I've had that since it came out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rosssca
Rating: 8.5
Date: Mar 31, 2007 5:29 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods 2007 is a better than average golf game. My last golf game was TW 2004 and I had a 
 lot more fun playing the mini-games. The learning curve is fairly easy, especially after you gain 
 the attributes. On-line game play is decent. The lobby area is horrible . The PGA tour season is 
 a challenge. It seems if I go low in one round the rest of the field will adjust to my score and 
 shoot 59's and 60's. Totally unrealistic. Some of the graphics are unbelievable, especially the 
 water. The grass on the greens looks like a two dimentional hair piece 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ishpoo805
Rating: 7.8
Date: Feb 26, 2007 5:33 pm PT
Review:  Although this game is fun, it still is not what a next-gen game should be. EA really needs to step 
 up here. But to their credit, there is a lot of neat improvements to the series for the PS3.
  
  PROS:
  
  Improved control scheme
  
  Nice overall graphical polish added, crowds can 
 be hit with the golf ball!
  
  Fun new modes (one-ball, bloodsome) as well as a new driving range to improve a character's skills.
 
  
  Improved EA TRAX (bad hip-hop replaced with electronica)
  
  No more talking golfers (seriously)
  
  Make use of the SIXAXIS controller to control in-air 
 ball spin
  
  CONS:
  
  Graphics not at the level expected by SONY expectations (for all PS3 games)
  
  Make use of 
 the SIXAXIS controller to control in-air ball spin (barely)
  
  The shot circle doesn't seem to shrink enough when you've fully leveled up the golfer. Assigning 
 attributes to equipment is no longer available.
  
  Only 13 courses
  
  Annoying Talking Golfer feature
  
  No Gamebreaker 
  
  Game has obnoxious bugs/glitches 
 (especially when unlocking equipment)
  
  AI is still stupid (why would someone continuously hit out of a bunker with the same type of shot 
 in the same direction after 4 attempts. No legend golfers or Era mode
  
  Give or take a couple of phrases, features the same commentary from Tiger Woods 2004! Also, some 
 of the crowd noises are GOSH-DARN annoying! Are these people screaming like ghosts every time I 
 land a shot on the green?!? Online play is still broken!!! (for me anyway, most can play online)
 
  
  THE BOTTOM LINE -
  
  Worth picking up if you need a next-gen golf fix. Although it does need a lot of work to achieve 
 the standards of the next generation of consoles. What this series needs is a new engine from the 
 ground-up instead of packaging a game engine that's 5+ years old. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: etc_sw_don
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 26, 2007 7:00 pm PT
Review:  For beginners the training course is great. I like the balance between doing the Tiger Challenge 
 and the training course. The putting system can be very difficult to read. I felt it was a little 
 to easy to beat Tiger in the Challenge. The graphics are great. All the pros look good except John 
 Daly, he looks a little sick (maybe on purpose) . It is time to change the announcers though, they 
 are getting annoying. The new way to sort items in the pro shop is excellent. Next years should 
 be really solid because they should have plenty of time to add all the courses for PS3. I look 
 forward to TW 2008. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SgtJcoo
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 18, 2007 9:42 am PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour '07. What can I say about this game? Well, for one, the gameplay makes this 
 game a tonne of fun! The golf controls are pretty cool, and the character customization is amazing. 
 The music score suits the game well, and there are plenty of extras that will keep you busy, such 
 as live ESPN radio broadcasts and news over the internet! Its those little things that really make 
 a difference. This is a good game, and a lot of fun when played with friends! I am sure you have 
 noticed that I haven't touched on graphics yet. Well, first off I must say that this is a multiplatform 
 game (includiong Xbox, X360, PS2 and PC) so right there it should tell you that it won't have the 
 best graphics. And that assumption is not contradicted in this game. I was not impressed by the 
 graphics, considering what the PS3 can do (what with all its processors and what not) . The fans 
 on the sides of the holes are not as plentyful as I am sure the PS3 is capable of, and they have 
 but three animations for getting hit. First, the shin. The grab their shin and jump up and down 
 a little, no matter how hard they were hit. Second, the thighs. See shin. Third, midsection/torso. 
 They grab their back and walk very stiffly for a couple seconds. Yes, they grab theri BACK ieven 
 if they were hit in the STOMACH. And like I said before, its the little things that can really 
 make the difference, so this little thing is very un-impressive. The trees are pretty good though, 
 and the player animations, while repetitive, are alright. But nothing the PS2 couldn't handle either, 
 it seems.
  
  Now that we are off that sour note, we will talk of the gameplay. For those of you who like golf, 
 or RPG's, or both, this is the game for you! Far more character customization than any RPG I have 
 ever played, and a nice Leveling up system that lets you train your golfer, and actually take part 
 in the training, and improve upon individual skills such as power, spin, putting, approach shots, 
 recovery shots, and much more! You can earn money through these training sessions, or by playing 
 in tournaments, or the Tiger Challenge which pits you one v. one against some of the world's top 
 golfers. You can then take your earnings to the pro-shop, where you can buy everything from clubs, 
 golf shoes, and gloves to sport watches, socks, pants, shirts, even shades. Combined with the immersive 
 character appearance modulators when you first make your golfer, you can pretty much dream up a 
 golfer, and make him/her exactly as you pictured.
  
  As for gameplay on the course, this game rids us of the 'boring' old shot power/trajectory controls 
 of other golf games, and introduces the use of an interactive swing control. This lets you pull 
 back the left control stick for your back-swing, and push it forward for the for-swing. It makes 
 the shots feel much more controllable, and makes the game a lot more fun. You can induce a fade 
 or draw on the ball by pulling/pushing the control stick with different angles. Putting is much 
 the same, but without the draw/fade option. Pressing 'O' will zoom in to the ball's predicted landing 
 area, (assuming the ball were hit with full power, and straight) . This allows you not only to see 
 where you will hit the ball, but what conditions are around corners or behind trees.
  
  All in all, this game is great. Lots of fun, and if you can get over the 'poor' (I say that in 
 relation to PS3's capabilities) graphics, it could easily be your favorite PS3 game out so far. 
 I would recommend this game to anyone looking for a fun golf game with lots of different options, 
 and lots of different play modes. As of yet, I have not experienced online, so I cannot give a 
 review of it, but hopefully it will be as fun as the single-player! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jan 7, 2007 8:05 pm PT
Review:  The overall graphics in this game are amazing. It really shines in the Game Face mode where you 
 can create just about any type of person you want. Gameplay graphics are also great, my favorite 
 is the water. The reflections looks amazing, especially on an HD TV.
  
  Gameplay is similar to Tiger Woods 06, with a few tweaks. The putting controls are a little easier. 
 They took out the Gamebreaker, which sucks. That was a fun feature.
  
  The available game modes will keep you busy. New is the Tiger Challenge, and golfer training. Both 
 of which improve your golfer's skills. There's the usual PGA Tour matches, and all the multiplayer 
 modes. The online play is also fun, with many stats to track your progress. Online gameplay is 
 lag free, and easy to use.
  
  My beefs with the game are mainly in the polish department. There are carryover glitches from 06. 
 Namely the announcers stating you've finished one under for round after sinking a bogey on hole 
 1... 06 had the same glitch. Also, your shot off the tee sounds like a shotgun, very strange. The 
 audience is also much louder than all other sound effects. Not balanced. The music is terrible 
 this year. 06 had some great artists (Thievary Corporation!) , but 07 is pretty weak. Also, EA cut 
 the Pro Shop selections way down. There's probably 25% of what was available in 06. They also cut 
 the number of courses, but that doesn't bother me much. There's still enough to keep busy, and 
 the course renderings in HD are incredible.
  
  Overall, the game is an amazing step up in graphics and takes advantage of the PS3's capabilities. 
 But it seems like it was rushed to market, and those bugs keep it from being an excellent game. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jdto20
Rating: 8.4
Date: Jan 5, 2007 7:11 am PT
Review:  Great looking character models and courses. The game is much more challenging than previous versions 
 in the series. I love the fact that my character stinks it up in the beginning and it takes alot 
 of effort with training and games to improve my stats to become at least competitive on the PGA 
 Tour. The create a character mode is the most in-depth and customizable that I have ever seen in 
 any game. The true aim system is a great addition to the series. My only major problem with the 
 game was that the sound was basically the same as previous games, no improvements, same basic background 
 noises. Also, the lack of choice of courses is disappointing. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashmodai69
Rating: 8.2
Date: Jan 1, 2007 11:38 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of Tiger Woods games, so i thought this one would be as good as the others, 
 but i was kinda dissapointed in it. My main complaints are the framerate problems and the lack 
 of content and courses. I mean Seriously this is using a blue ray disk so where are all the other 
 game modes and why dont i have like 200 courses to play on, well ok maybe not 200 but this game 
 has less than the ps2 version WTF!?!?!?!. Other than that its a pretty good game, i just hope they 
 do alot better next year 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Phoenix8387
Rating: 9.1
Date: Dec 26, 2006 5:10 pm PT
Review:  Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07 is a good first step in the series venture to the PS3.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay has really stepped up. The game has become much more difficult if you so 
 choose to do so; no putting help, a non-exact area when hitting and some pretty crazy greens can 
 all make this game terribly hard. But dont let that stop you, because all of these can be turned 
 on/off to make the game much easier and enjoyable.
  
  Graphics: The graphics from the PS2 to the PS3 are a pretty big step up, even if your not on a 
 HDTV youll notice it. The scenery and surrounding area are rendered beautifully. The trees look 
 gorgeous and the water looks almost real.
  
  Game Face: I was a little disappointed by this aspect. The character creation had many features 
 and options so that no two characters should ever look exactly alike, but when it comes to items 
 to make them look truly unique thats where we hit a snag. There are just too few items like shirts, 
 pants and shoes to give you the feel that you can pick whichever you want.
  
  Sound: David Feherty and Gary McCord return as the announcers who mock both you and each other. 
 They havent learned much new to say, but then again it just wouldnt be Tiger Woods PGA Tour without 
 them. During rounds the sound is much like the older games, relaxing and not trying to make you 
 rush. When youre navigating the menus is a different story, at which I found very few songs to 
 my liking.
  
  NEW!: First thing is the stats. No more buying them! Now you have to golf and train at the Training 
 Facility to get your stats up and win matches to get your max stats up. Next is the FedEx Cup, 
 a new ranking system that will be implemented in the 07 golf season first makes its debut in 
 Tiger Woods PGA Tour 07. There are a few new aspects to the controller, you can now use the X button 
 to produce spin and the right analog stick has become the loft stick which will produce more/less 
 height and less/more spin when situations call for it.
  
  In all, it's a great buy if you found yourself enjoying the previous versions of Tiger Woods PGA 
 Tour, but don't let this game alone drive you to buy a PS3... that would just be insane. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jakyjaky3456
Rating: 9.3
Date: Dec 15, 2006 10:31 am PT
Review:  i hesitated while buying this game because all the other games in the Tiger Woods series i found 
 quite short. but this game turned out to be a brilliant game. the graphics for one are absolutely 
 amazing. you really get the feel of the game. the gameplay is really great fun its much more accurate 
 than the other tiger woods games for instance now you cannot pinpoint where you wanna hit the ball 
 you just aim it on the green and hope it sticks, like the pros do! i espescially enjoyed the game 
 face, it is so realistic and there is a mass of options to choose from. the sound is really as 
 its always been, the commentators dont really have much more to say. but the value of the game 
 is pretty good so i gave it a 9.3. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
