-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/sports/tigerwoods2009/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Real-time swing feedback.
 Dynamic skill progression works well.
 Fun and extremely addictive gameplay.
 Improved gamernet integration.
 Four-player simultaneous play.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Still can't skip CPU golfers.
 Same number of courses as last year.
 New announcers are just as bland as the old ones.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 8.2, 29 Review (s)
User Score: 8.3, 282 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Electronic Arts
Developer: EA Tiburon
Genre: Golf Sim
Date: Aug 26, 2008
ESRB: Everyone

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Friendlier controls and a host of other improvements make Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09 great. 

  Tiger Woods 08's touchy controls, iffy online play, and a general lack of new content made for 
 one disappointing game. But just as Tiger didn't let torn ligaments and a broken leg keep him from 
 winning the US Open, EA Sports hasn't used the short development cycle associated with yearly games 
 as an excuse. Instead, it has worked to make the controls more user-friendly and further integrated 
 the online gamernet feature. The result is a game that's worthy of carrying the Tiger Woods name. 

           Now you can evaluate your swing in real time.      

  Tiger Woods 09's controls aren't vastly different from TW 08, but they're much more forgiving. 
 You start your swing by pulling back on the analog stick and then strike the ball by moving the 
 stick forward. A more traditional three-button-press option is available at any time by clicking 
 the right analog stick. Last year, the slightest deviation left or right during your swing would 
 result in a terrible shot, particularly if you were using a golfer with low skill attributes. This 
 year, not only are you punished less severely if your swing isn't perfect, but you also get instant 
 feedback via an onscreen meter that shows exactly how you moved the stick. By monitoring this feedback, 
 you can learn how to straighten your swing or compensate for your natural swing by adjusting your 
 aim or by adding a draw or fade to the ball with the press of a button.  

  The addition of Tiger's own coach Hank Haney to TW 09 makes hitting the ball easier as well. You 
 can now head to the driving range and adjust each of your clubs to best suit your playing style. 
 For example, if you're struggling for accuracy off the tee, you can increase the sweet spot on 
 your driver. This will help ensure that your drives stay on the fairway, but you'll sacrifice some 
 distance. This level of customization is often intimidating in sports games, but here, the process 
 is simple and worthwhile.  

  TW 09 includes 16 golf courses, which is the same number as last year. New courses include Wentworth, 
 Sheshan, Wolf Creek, and Bay Hill. The Gary Player Country Club in South Africa is an excellent 
 addition to the mix, but it's disappointing that there aren't more courses -- especially when you 
 consider how quick EA was to charge for downloadable courses in 08. The roster of male and female 
 professional golfers is about the same as before, but there are a few new faces, such as Se Ri 
 Pak and Darren Clarke. Like previous iterations, you can create a golfer using the game's deep 
 customization tools, and you can even import your own photos to make a truly lifelike version of 
 your mug (you can even add eyebrows this year) .  

  Money is earned by playing on the PGA Tour or by completing events, such as beating golfers head-to-head, 
 driving the ball a certain number of yards, getting a particular score on a group of holes, and 
 more in the Tiger Challenge mode. Cash can then be used to buy new gear, some of which carries 
 a small skill bonus. Unlike in the past, you'll actually have to earn most of your attributes on 
 the links with the new dynamic skill-progression feature. After each round (and most challenges) , 
 coach Haney will raise or lower your driving, accuracy, short game, and putting attributes based 
 on your performance. Rather than punish you for playing poorly (though he still does that) , Haney 
 gives you the chance to earn a few points back with brief challenges where you try to hit the ball 
 into a large circular target. The new system isn't perfect -- sometimes Haney will tell you to drive 
 into bushes, put you in an impossible lie, or lower your putting attributes even when you set a 
 course record -- but it's a great way of making character progression feel organic.  

  No dramatic changes have been made with regards to online play, but a few tweaks and additions 
 go a long way. The most notable change is that you can now play with up to three other people at 
 the same time online. Being able to all hit at the same time really speeds things up, even if the 
 colored trails that show other players' balls are sometimes distracting. With the gamernet feature, 
 you can quickly upload a shot, hole, front or back nine, and even a whole round with the press 
 of a button. You then are able to go online and play a nearly endless stream of challenges. You'll 
 have to filter through some ridiculously easy and impossibly difficult shots for the best experience, 
 but even if you don't feel like searching, you can still enjoy the feature thanks to periodic challenges 
 (long drives, closest to the pin) that pop up during single-player rounds. Last year's game had 
 a ton of problems when it came to playing online, downloading photos, and uploading gamernet clips, 
 but so far, all of TW 09's online features work great.  

           Coach Haney will give you feedback on your game. You'll have him missing Tiger in no time. 

  Friendly controls and excellent courses, as well as a plethora of challenges and game modes, make 
 for outstanding gameplay, but there are a few areas that could have been better. Putting is still 
 a bit easy, although you are punished a bit more than before if you go left or right with the stick. 
 For some unknown reason, you  still  can't skip the turns of CPU golfers, which makes head-to-head 
 play take forever -- especially if the AI can't figure out how to get around a tree, which happens 
 from time to time. Courses and golfers generally look fantastic (especially the water, which is 
 gorgeous) , but nonexistent preswing-to-swing transitions and some glitchy load screens are unsightly. 
 A new announcing team takes to the microphones this year, but it's about as dull as its predecessors 
 and will lull you to sleep in a hurry. You're better off just listening to the game's soundtrack, 
 which is excellent.  

  The real-time swing meter, club tuner, and advice of Hank Haney make getting the perfect swing 
 easier than ever. Dynamic skill progression, while not perfect, is a welcome addition; not only 
 because a new system was needed, but also because it makes every swing important -- even if you're 
 winning or losing by 10 strokes. Some more courses would have been nice, but otherwise, there's 
 very little not to like with Tiger Woods PGA Tour 09. It's amazing how a few small changes can 
 make a game so much better.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (17 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: alexchapman25
Rating: 9.5
Date: Feb 18, 2009 5:17 pm PT
Review:  Lets get right to it.... this game if you love golf is fantastic.
  
  The graphics are awesome; the speed of play is great and I was hooked from the get go. I have been 
 playing this game for weeks now and I have finally just achieved every trophy.
  
  As soon as you enter career mode, the fun starts; you start with average power and skills and equipment, 
 but through winning challenges and events on the pro tour you earn money to buy new equipment and 
 stats are increased based on your gameplay. If you perform poorly on a round you get the chance 
 to redeem yourself slightly with the addition of the coach thing at the end which allows you to 
 go back to some shots you played in the round and show you can consistently achieve greatness with 
 them!
  
  I will say though that the AI on this game is relatively poor. Most of the pros are average and 
 if you score well in the tournaments most of the time you will win them. Completing all the challenges 
 and the trophies though is a challenge due to the amount of them. At the end of your first full 
 season which takes enough time as it is you will receive a gluttony of these trophies (if you have 
 played well enough that is) but then it seems that to achieve the few missing it takes absolutely 
 ages to do; like a couple more PGA seasons which is a long time. However I only felt the game was 
 getting repetative during the end of this process.
  
  I think the above could be helped by more trophies inbetween the easy ones and the hard ones and 
 definitely more courses would help. I dont think for example I have ever seen August National represented 
 on this game series; im sure August would have to give permission but this is Tiger Woods endorsed.... Come 
 on!?
  
  Ive whined now but what this game does well it does brilliantly; the courses look amazing, and 
 the gameplay is accurate. I played this game for ever and a day and rarely did I find it boring 
 or dull.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: WARLOCK234
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 15, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  This is the best golfing game that is currently for sale. I play this all the time with my dad 
 and uncle and even they like it. It is a good game but there are a few things that aren't the best. 
 The graphix aren't very good, they don't have much definition and they also isn't much texture. 
 This isn't very important but the body movements of the players are kind of weird and unrealistic. 
 The gameplay is fun especially with a few people. The game does have a good feature so that it 
 allows you to play with four people no matter how many controllers you have, though the controller 
 assignment interface is very confusing. The on screen, in game interface is also a bit confusing. 
 Decyfering what club you are using, how far that club will hit, where the hole is, and how far to 
 the hole can also be a challenge, but hitting the O button will straighten you out by showing an 
 estimate of where your ball will go if you hit it with a hundred percent with that club so it is 
 a bit forgiving. Overall this a is a great game although it has crappy graphix and bad interface, it 
 does make up t=for most of these problems with fun gameplay and strong multiplayer, not to mention 
 there really isn't much other choice for golfing games. I would go for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Toxic8
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 4:48 pm PT
Review:  I rented this game to see how it would compare to last years installment, which I actually didn't 
 like. The controls were way too sensitive. EA has fixed this on Tiger Woods 09 with a more forgiving 
 control system. But even this is null and void if you select an expert club. Which will boost the 
 likelyhood of an errand shot for most casual gamers. But you don't actually have to pick the expert 
 clubs, for they will not give you a stat boost this year. So I guess I can live with that option.
 
  
  As far as the graphics they are the best on a Tiger Woods game yet. The courses look great and the 
 water effects are done very well. And the golfers, well they look a tad bit better as well. And the 
 sounds (which I will be brief about) are the same. Nothing new, but some commentary which can get 
 old in a hurry.
  
  Tiger Woods 09 is a great game if you are a fan of the series or golf. But for those that are wanting 
 a different game for this year you will be dissapointed. Tiger Woods 09 is a solid game and warrants 
 a checking out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djballer24
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 4:45 am PT
Review:  et annoying though. Like when you play a round and it says your stats go up .5 but your stats actually 
 go down some. I was dissapointed in the graphics too. Besides the Ocean nothing really looks exceptionall. 
 The character custumization is pretty good. I like that there are so many varities of hats and 
 shirts. The golf balls are cool too. There are like 20 different designs for the golfballs. I miss 
 the TIGER card though. It is really hard to earn money in 09. although it makes the game last so 
 its all good. I play with my 2 brothers all the time. We face each other to set the course records. 
 Its a very competitive game and its great. Overall it is a great game. Finally i dont have to play 
 tiger 2004 anymore. Tiger woods 2009 is a great game and everyone who likes tiger should go out 
 and buy it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duvtljnt
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 18, 2008 10:21 am PT
Review:  Simply put, TWPT09 is a good golf game. I have fun playing it. But it looks like crap compared 
 to most games out these days. The environments are bland. The character movement is choppy. Aside 
 from that, there are key features that one would expect that are not there:
  
  My room mate and I both have PSN accounts. We sign in with our own when we play. Since we each 
 created characters under our own account, we can never play against each other with them. That 
 is just unacceptable to not be able to load in a character from another account on the same PS3.
 
  
  I also feel like the way your stats are calculated is illogical. If I hit a 98 yard shot within 
 4 yards of the pin, I like to think that's not too bad. But that's gonna hurt my short game alot. 
 If I leave a 15 yard flop 4 yards out, that's awful, but it has the exact same effect.
  
  Seems they could have found much better ways of calculating stats.
  
  Overall, not a bad game, 
 but it's not worth $60. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tlsmikey
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2008 10:07 am PT
Review:  Graphics: Most of the games coming out now showcase the impressive graphics capabilities of the 
 next gen consoles. Tiger Woods 09 does have much improved graphics over the 08 version, however 
 they are not cutting edge nor are they very impressive. Considering the graphics of action oreinted 
 games such as Call of Duty and Metal Gear Solid, I expected much more in the graphics department. 
 
  
  Sound: Sounds is great throughout the game. The clubs sound like they should. The only downside 
 is some repetition in the announcers calls of your shot making ability. It would be nice to be 
 able to turn down the frequency of their commentary.
  
  Gameplay: Plays very well, but far too easy. The adaptive skill setting is not nearly tough enough 
 and even setting it to hard is still not what I would consider "tough". The hard settings should 
 really have brutal rough, deep bunkers and super fast greens. 
  
  I also have to agree with the Gamespot review with respect to Computer players. You really should 
 be able to skip watching their shots. It makes a round of golf take forever. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doors269
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 10:21 pm PT
Review:  The lowdown is there are quite a few mini-games, the photo gameface is awesome, my golfer i kid 
 you not looks identical to me in real life! They fixed most of the issues with swinging from last 
 year. Same number of courses, a couple of new ones replaced, and i like the dynamic skills, makes 
 it so if you have a bad day, you go into a "slump".... but after each round, you have a chance to 
 make temporary boosts to your stats with challenges. Overall, the graphics are great as well, so 
 I'll be playing this for awhile! My only beefs are really a litte better announcing, it does fine, 
 but it doesn't really do much for me, but honestly neither does real-life ones. Also, maybe a bit 
 more interface and interactions with other golfers throughout the season, and some news stuff during 
 the season you play. You kind of rinse and repeat through tournaments without much meaning behind 
 it. Otherwise a great game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingROM
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 1, 2008 3:29 am PT
Review:  After failing with previous PS3 versions, I am (very) glad that this latest offering is almost 
 everything I wanted from a golf game.
  
  The biggest boon is the swing system that has been vastly improved over the random bad shot generator 
 from Tiger 08. The inclusion of a display bar of your actual swing really helps to show where you 
 are going wrong.
  
  Skills have been simplified too, gone are the 10+ different skills, only 4 skills are used now. 
 A nice feature is a practice hole when your character is created and depending on how you do, depends 
 on your starting stats. Nice touch.
  
  Skills can go down as well as up, which is a nice touch, so a bad round will have negative affects 
 on a character, but I think it adds to the game.
  
  One drawback is the really bad commentary, I recommend turn the voices off and listen to the good 
 soundtrack.
  
  I haven't played the game long enough to see if it has staying power, but the impressions are good.
 
  
  This game is a must of you liked the previous Tiger games as I believe it is the best 'next gen' 
 version. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: playmemike01
Rating: 6
Date: Aug 31, 2008 7:06 am PT
Review:  In all honesty, I am fed up with old Tiger. He has been the licensed figure of EA for some 10 years 
 now, and whilst a lot has changed, it still offers a damn similar experience I was playing back 
 in 06 or even 05.
  
  The control scheme has been streamlined and allowed to be more accessible, and with coaching from 
 Hank Haney, Tiger's actual coach, it feels like a more rewarding experience that you are getting 
 to learn how to play the game properly. Other times Hank Haney does feel a lot like an elaborate 
 instruction manual of how to play golf, and that's what it feels like you're paying for.
  
  The game looks very good, especially the character models, but unfortunately the courses look extremely 
 dull and totally uninteresting. At least Everybody's Golf had lush looking courses compared to 
 the mountainous greenery of Woods 09. Then again, the courses compliment the overall feeling of 
 the game, utter slog and monotony.
  
  Yes, it has a create your own player option. Yes, it has licensed courses, kit and clubs but it 
 had all of this last year, so where's the incentive to buy the update. Are we supposed to buy just 
 because it's newer? Unlike football, not much happens within a year of golf so why the update? 
 Because golf is thrilling and exciting sport? No, don't be so daft.
  
  Overall, Woods 09 has what Woods 07 had, arguably the best in the series. With the inclusion of 
 Hank Haney it is nice touch but after 15 minutes spending time with him, you want to club him round 
 the face with your pitcher. And he does feel like a glorified instruction book. Tiger needs some 
 invigoration as EA have taken a dull sport and portrayed it as a dull sport. Again.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jmr684
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2008 2:57 pm PT
Review:  So being a long time fan of the Tiger Woods series, i was more than excited to finally pick up 
 my first copy of Tiger Woods on a next gen console. 
  
  Now I had heard all the fuss about problems with the controls, glitches, and other quirks associated 
 with '08 which is the very reason I didn't pick it up. I did have a chance to play it however, 
 and being a fan of the series all the way back from '04 I couldn't get through one hole without 
 throwing down the controller with disgust. 
  
  Tiger Woods '09 has officially redeemed it self in this department. Controls are solid and fluid. 
 I have played both XBOX and PS2/PS3 versions in the past and this is by far the best I've played. 
 Final verdict on the controls are: Solid, responsive, and very pleasing. With the addition of the 
 real time feedback meter, there is not a shanked ball or missed putt accompanied by the feeling 
 that you have been robbed. If you miss a shot, it was your own fault... A+
  
  Graphically the game looks stunning for the most part. The courses look amazing, the water looks 
 very realistic, and the atmosphere each hole creates is just spectacular. The only gripe I have 
 when it comes to the courses design graphically would be the trees. With the sheer processing power 
 of the PS3's cell processor, it would have been nice to see much more detail in the trees. Specifically 
 on the tree trunks. It looks as though they used a smooth marble pattern to make the trunks of 
 the trees, which would have been fine if they had used even the slightest hint of bump mapping. 
 
  As far as the characters themselves go, I have mixed feelings. I have used the new addition "Photo 
 game face" to upload my photo and have the game generate an accurate character in my likeness. 
 I was surprised by the result. Although it took around 15 min for the rendering process to finish, 
 my character was surprisingly accurate. 
  Now for my gripe. This is 2009 and the PS3. The actual characters themselves have only been slightly 
 improved since the xbox and PS2 versions of years ago. The clothes are flat with very little 3d 
 bump texture or lighting effects, and skin is cartoon like. If they had committed to the cell shaded 
 look from the get go, it could have turned out great, but the end result simply looks ok. 
  Now for my biggest gripe. The audience. They are all doing the same thing at the same time. It 
 looks like a string of marionettes linked together with one puppet master. Their bodies are also 
 quite un-proportioned. There are men with huge legs and kids shoulders and women with skinny legs 
 and the upper body of a linebacker. kinda goofy looking.
  The addition of the Photo game face is great and effective. The courses look amazing with very 
 little to complain about. The characters on the other hand just don't seem next gen enough. Still 
 pretty good all in all. Final result I give the graphics overall a B-
  
  Performance wise, this game has little to scoff at. The only thing I could really even find to 
 complain about are the couple of graphical glitches from time to time in the character animations. 
 They can be a little jumpy from time to time. Between that and the occasional delay on the animations 
 when you drop one in the cup, not to many issues here. Final result on performance, while the small 
 technical glitches can tend to remind you that your not actually golfing and that it is a video 
 game, there is nothing here that causes any problems with the actual gameplay. B+
  
  Finally we get down to features. This one the verdict is still out. I do like the new attributes 
 system. Having maxed out attributes in previous games was something to work for and was rewarding 
 but once you had em', well there ya go and there there to stay. But now you have a reason to keep 
 playing smart and get full enjoyment out of a risk reward system. You now actually have something 
 to loose if you make a risky shot and f**k up, but equally have something to gain. 
  The part that I think is a bit of a let down is the downgraded emphasis on equipment. Where there 
 is still stat boosts associated with clothing and accessories but as far as the drivers, wedges, 
 putters, and irons, it is either very limited or non existent. What my official opinion is on this 
 is still out to pasture. Where my first reaction is, well that sucks and is kind of a bummer, "I 
 mean if it doesn't really do anything, what's the point of spending $25,000 on a new driver?" But 
 on the other hand Im going to keep playing and see if this was changed to improve long term game 
 play. On this note, I do think it is kind of stupid to have all of these things to keep you working 
 to keep your level up and then offer a shirt that gives you max attribute points... 
  Aside from that, the game modes, and new simultaneous online play are great. So for the time being 
 Im giving it a B because of the club issues but might be moved to either a C or A depending on 
 further play.
  
  Finally we get to sound. This unfortunately is were it falls on its face. As far as sound effects, 
 there really isn't much that you can really put in a golf game aside from ambient sound and swing 
 sound effects. There really isn't much so if your going to do it, you better do it right because 
 with little to choose from any shortcomings are going to be emphasized. 
  There are 2 major problems with this years installment of Tiger Woods from a sound standpoint. 
 #1 and most importantly the absence of McCord and Feherty. They were the comedic heart and soul 
 of Tiger Woods and a big part of the appeal. They had a wonderful back and fourth banter that made 
 Tiger Woods commentary not only bearable but downright amusing and fun. Their absence is a heart 
 sinker. Now regardless of how good the replacements are, there is going to be some let down. With 
 that aside how are the replacements? Eh' their so so. Not a whole lot of commentary, which is probably 
 what makes it easily bearable, but the humor is no were to be seen. No jokes, puns, or jabs at 
 all. Really pretty drab. They don't do anything terribly wrong or annoying but they don't do anything 
 great or amusing either.
  Problem #2, No custom sound track and the songs that are on there are minus any vocals. The quiet 
 somber of a round of golf is nice, but sometimes you want a little music to break up the quiet 
 silence. With out the option of playing your own music despite the addition of a hard drive on 
 both xbox 360 and PS3, its just a sour note. 
  With all of this added up I give the sound a C-
  
  Over all this is definitely a great addition 
 to your library for any Tiger Woods fan. '08 was a disappointment and '07 is, well, old. There 
 is definitely enough here to justify a purchase and plenty here to keep you playing until 2010. 
 
  
  Final Grade: B 
::::::

::::::
UserName: spokes33
Rating: 7
Date: Aug 29, 2008 2:18 pm PT
Review:  ok..
  
  I've played 'em all...09 is different, but why the heck do they all have to BE different?... why 
 not use some of the best stuff from previous versions... ok.. I know because NO-ONE has the cahones 
 to MAKE another CHALLENGER to the EA Golf franchise.. do we remember LINKS?... for the PC... but ahh... yes... Microsoft 
 wouldn't want to battle EA now would they?...
  
  ok, back to the review....
  
  we used to be able to control the conditions (ONLINE, I'm talking) ... so, when we got bored, or 
 a little punchy we could hike a bag and play a round in Hurricane Gustav if we felt the urge. Not 
 anymore.
  
  I have been playing this game pretty much ad nauseum since it's release, and I have yet to miss 
 a Fairway on tee-off... and no, I play a lot, but my thumb does wander off now and again, but this 
 game seems too failsafe.. hit the tee shot, hit the fairway... Voila!
  
  Putting is a mystery, you get good at it alone, (OFFLINE) and literally swing back then forward 
 not really paying attention and every shot drains.. go ONLINE and all bets are off... How does one 
 get good at putting when the environments are that vastly 
 
  
  Too much boring Training from Hank... Thanks.. but could we have a little variety?... huh?... but I 
 fear not taking him up on the offers of training, as I wouldn't want to diminish my "attribute" 
 achievements now would I?
  
  Club selection at the edge of the fairway... ok...3 clubs?... did I LOSE all the rest of them on 
 the previous freakin' hole?... whatup WIT DAT?? is Tiger using the rest of my bag as CANES?...
 
  
  Gameface.. well.. yea.. EA has bugs... nuff said... but to their defense, the lag time and server response 
 has been great. (not always the case in release weeks in previous years) .
  
  ok... it's good... there could be a lot of better things about it, but let's hope they just use the 
 GOOD stuff on 'TW '10...
  
  FORE! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: YeahYeahYouWere
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 29, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  After my disappointment with the 08 version of Tiger Woods, I was hesitant to drop $60 on the 09, 
 but the demo played well and now I am glad I shelled out the cash.
  
  There are some very noteworthy changes in 09, more than you would expect from a yearly installment. 
 Many of the problems that marred the 08 game have been addressed, and the final product comes together 
 very well.
  
  The first major issue that has been fixed is the ridiculous rubberband AI on the computer. The 
 CPU players no longer shoot incredible scores, so you are no longer punished for playing good rounds. 
 This can make the game a bit too easy, but there are always difficulty settings to tweak if you 
 require more challenge.
  
  Tiger 09 also features an immediate feedback swing gauge. No more shots flying wildly off into 
 the trees when you felt like you put a good swing on it. There is a gauge on the lower left that 
 displays your swing path as you make it - when you DO shank one into the trees, you will see that 
 you did in fact drift way to one side with the swing. This makes it much easier to tweak your swing 
 to your tendencies, because the mystery of where you went wrong is gone.
  
  Also new to the series is the Club Tuner. This allows you to customize the attributes of your clubs, 
 such as power, spin, workability, etc. You can juice your clubs up for more distance, but the result 
 is a smaller Sweet Spot, thus making it more detrimental to put a poor swing on a shot. This means 
 that to really maximize your output, especially in power, you really need to be a consistently 
 good swinger. It also means that if you struggle with consistency, you can trade off distance for 
 a larger sweet spot to hit it shorter but straighter.
  
  Finally, the last notable addition is the dynamic attributes feature. To put it simply, if you 
 play well, your skills go up, but if you play poorly, your skills go down. This adds an element 
 of strategy to your play - you can drive that 340 yard Par 4 hole, but if you miss, you'll get 
 penalized on your stats, which makes you more likely to play the game in a reasonable manner. Some 
 stats, like your Short Game, actually require you to play extremely well to get them into the higher 
 levels. Also, you no longer start off the game at the bare minimum, which is nice, because it was 
 always tough to go from maxed in the previous game to a total scrub when you bought the new one.
 
  
  Finally, the new EA GamerNet interface is a very nice addition. It allows you to undertake challenges 
 in the middle of an event, which adds extra interest and motivation to play well. If you make a 
 good shot, you can upload your challenge for others to attempt on the fly, with a simple and quick 
 interface. On the whole, the GamerNet feature is unobtrusive and smooth, and integrates seamlessly 
 into the flow of the game.
  
  However, despite the wonderful additions, there are a few areas where Tiger 09 does not shine. 
 While the courses have gotten a cosmetic upgrade and look fantastic, the character models are distinctly 
 poor. Specifically, the hair of the female characters looks plastic and stiff, and in general, 
 the models just do not look as good as they should on a next gen console. I am sure some of this 
 is carry over from it being offered on the less powerful systems, such as the PS2 and the Wii. 
 Nevertheless, it is still a disappointment to see bad models from the game. The GameFace feature 
 also generates a golfer that is not mildly recognizable as me, but others have said they have used 
 it to great results, so I may just need to keep plugging away with it.
  
  Also, the equipment options seem a bit limited, and even more skewed toward the ridiculous in order 
 to satiate the standard internet idiot crowd. They offer you a football helmet or a king's crown 
 to wear, but not a standard Greg Normal style straw hat? You can golf in a football uniform or 
 a bunny suit, but you only less than a dozen options for shorts? On the whole, the equipment options 
 are disappointing.
  
  The online play has been improved, and now offers simultaneous play. This is a nice feature if 
 your goal is to play as many games as possible, but if you are just looking to play a relaxed round, 
 it can make it feel a bit rushed. It also makes it difficult to track your opponents shots (it 
 displays them with a line, but it is difficult to read them sometimes, especially when pressed 
 for time by a shot clock) , which thus makes it more difficult to formulate a plan of attack. This 
 is nice if you want to play a quick game, and the online interaction is quick and solid.
  
  The bottom line is that the new Tiger is a vast improvement over the previous installment of the 
 series and will provide a lot of fun for fans of the game. The poor character models and lacking 
 equipment options prevent the game from being perfect, but in the end it is a fun game that you 
 will want to keep playing for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: neonfrax2
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 9:22 am PT
Review:  This year's Tiger Woods is an incredibly deep, addictive, and entertaining game. The game play 
 is fairly unchanged from the previous year; your on-course performance once again increases or 
 reduces your abilities. This year, the controls are a little more forgiving and a live meter in 
 the lower part of the screen gives you a representation of your swing so you know exactly what 
 you're doing right or wrong (NOTE TO EA SKATE 2 DEVELOPMENT TEAM: Please include this feature!) .
 
  
  The online features (which felt a little hackneyed and buggy) are fantastically integrated into 
 this year's game play. As you play along a course, if a player in the world has recorded a record 
 shot on this course, you are given the opportunity to challenge it. Beating someone's shot doesn't 
 automatically replace the challenge, but you get points for doing so and EA servers are constantly 
 keeping track of point totals and rankings throughout the day. So any time throughout the day, 
 you can see exactly who is beating the most records (or who has uploaded the most unbeatable shots 
 of the day) .
  
  The only reason, I've dropped the score on this game to an 8.5 from a 9.5 is that it almost seems 
 too easy. Though I'm an average player in previous games, with only a handful of playtime, my simulated 
 golfer was annihilating competition on the PGA Tour and most of my stats were nearly maxed out 
 at 10. It makes me question the replay ability of the game when a poor player like myself is suddenly 
 Super Duffer.
  
  Though maybe it's the because the game gave me good coaching....
  
  8.5 stars out of 10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ebtr
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 27, 2008 8:44 am PT
Review:  The fact that this game has evolved from 1999, a crude but functional game, to this 2009 version 
 is simply amazing.
  Having only played the PC Tiger Woods, the PS3 had no control issues and I jumped right in .Game 
 play was smooth controls clear. Very good graphics and game play is similar to older versions with 
 some new learning features. Real golfers may actually benefit from some of this games' basic tutorials 
 on shot execution. 
  The part I miss from the PC versions is the on line play allowing you to watch ( and learn from 
 ) the other guy's shot or putt.
  You are not allowed to watch his break or how the wind affects his shot. In short, they changed it 
 up to allow faster on line matches and I get that. I always thought that getting a read on a putt 
 was part of the game, but... just not in this game.
  If you and pals play real golf buy it otherwise .. RENT IT FIRST ! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: moo223
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2008 3:30 am PT
Review:  Im not a huge fan of EA, i think alot of there games they come out with are total crap but not 
 this game.
  ive been playing the game for a day now. I really enjoy the online challenges. keeps the game replayable. 
 The graphics have definitely improved from previous versions. the coach trainer is really helpful 
 for someone who is just getting into playing golf games. Things i ddin't like about the game were 
 the gameplay face where you can add your face into the game and play as yourself. i found that 
 the program failed to really capture my face. the face it genereated was 15% accurate on protraying 
 me. i don't seee why golf games are not very popular, if your a golf fan then this a must have. 
 im happy i bought it, i have no complaints im sure ill be playing alot in the year to come. Oh 
 if anyone is interested tiger will be on the Conan Obrien Show August 27,2008 on NBC to promote 
 the game, i think it will be cool to see what he has to say. oh yea, it is too bad that that the 
 course tiger is developing (Dubai) isn't on here i thought that would have been a cool course to 
 try out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: myloman44
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 6:26 pm PT
Review:  Wow, where do i begin... this game is amazing. I wasnt sure what to expect going into my local gamestop 
 to buy it today, because i know how ea sports tends to just throw out very average games but sell 
 a large volume of copies because of great advertising (Madden) . This game however is different. 
 The photo game face is a cool idea, i havent had a chance to get a digital photo loaded on yet 
 but i used one from my eye toy, it turned out okay but the eye toy is pretty low resolution, and 
 if you dont want to have your face in the game thats cool the face creator is just as good as ever 
 if not better. The gamernet is awesome can be playing during my career mode and a challenge will 
 pop up and i can choose to go for it or just play my game and pay no attention to the call out. 
 The club tuner and the new coach is a great addition to the game, also your player gets good quick 
 (if you play good atleast) . Finally the graphics.... WOW they are unbelievable. If you enjoy golf 
 go pick this game up 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mickael
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 26, 2008 10:11 am PT
Review:  This game is really good from what I can tell. I've had it for an hour now. Right away I noticed 
 the graphics were better than last years and I only played the demo of 08.
  
  I usually a fan of the Hot Shots series but I got this one instead because I don't have 5 gigabytes 
 of storage for a game like Hot Shots. Plus it looked good. And it is. Everything seems to work 
 nicely. I like going back and forth with how to swing. I'm still learning. I'm curious as to what 
 others will think. This is my first golf purchase since the 8-bit days but I really like it so 
 far. ... and I was really high playing it too. My roommate dug it too. We finally have something 
 to take the place of NBA Jam. I wish they'd make another one of those. Or maybe make an arcade 
 version of NBA 09 with just 3 on 3. Oh yeah, Tiger Woods 09 has a nice sense of humor too. So there's 
 no reason to get hot shots. And you can't switch how you want to swing on the fly like you can 
 in 09. So get this golf game over any and all the others. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
