-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Time Crisis 4
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/timecrisis4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Has the hokey charm of a '90s Japanese arcade game.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The shoot-and-duck light-gun mechanics are tired.
 New first-person mode is tedious and generic.
 GunCon3 setup is sloppy.
 Graphics feel flat and airless.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 21, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 5.5
Critic Score: 6.1, 53 Review (s)
User Score: 6.8, 424 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Bandai Namco Games
Genre: Light Gun Shooter
Date: Nov 20, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
A bland first-person shooter mode does little to freshen up the stale taste of this aging light-gun 
 series. 

  As an odd remnant of the bygone days of the arcade, light-gun games have been struggling for relevance 
 for years now. Namco's Time Crisis series -- arguably the last franchise to bring anything significant 
 to the genre -- attempts to co-opt the popularity of free-movement first-person shooters with Time 
 Crisis 4 for the PlayStation 3, but it misses the point. What you're left with is some pretty straightforward 
 shoot-and-duck light-gun gameplay shot through with stale FPS action and some clumsy motion controls. 

           Time is the least of this game's crises.      

  First off, let's talk about the hardware that comes with Time Crisis 4, which consists of the new 
 GunCon3 light-gun controller and a set of infrared sensors that you place near the top of your 
 TV. The infrared setup is similar to the Wii sensor bar, but less elegant, consisting of two somewhat 
 sizeable sensors tethered together with a length of wire that you plug into one of the PS3s USB 
 ports. The day-glo orange GunCon3 controller itself is also USB-based and looks like an overgrown 
 version of the GunCon2. In addition to the trigger, there are two buttons on the side of the barrel 
 and two more on the back, along with an analog stick. There's also a handle that juts out of the 
 left-hand side of the barrel near the front, which is home to another analog stick and two more 
 buttons.  

  It's actually a fairly comfortable controller to hold, at least for right-handed players, but there's 
 something kind of intimidating about a light gun with six buttons and two analog sticks; it all 
 seems like an awful lot of trouble to go through for a light-gun game. One of the fundamental appeals 
 of a light-gun game is that it's self-explanatory -- just point and shoot. Yet the design of the 
 GunCon3 and Time Crisis 4, in general, flies in the face of that appeal. For the record, Time Crisis 
 4 can be played with a regular controller, but you'd want to do that about as much as you'd want 
 to play a standard first-person shooter with a light gun.  

  There are two main modes of play in Time Crisis 4: arcade and complete mission. Both revolve around 
 a trio of exceptionally and uniquely ridiculous-looking law enforcement types as they chase after 
 a terrorist organization that's gotten its hands on a biological weapon called "terror bite," which 
 is basically just a swarm of really aggressive bugs. It's pretty campy stuff, but the game takes 
 it all just seriously enough that it takes the fun out of it. In the arcade mode, it feels like 
 a pretty traditional Time Crisis game. You automatically move from one piece of cover to the next, 
 pressing a button to pop up then cap generic enemy soldiers as they hop out of doorways and generally 
 act like jack-in-the-boxes with poor aim. Returning to cover will reload your weapon and protect 
 you from the occasional bullet that might actually hit you, but there's also a ticking clock to 
 discourage you from playing too cautiously.  

  Like Time Crisis 3, you've got a submachine gun, a shotgun, and a grenade launcher in addition 
 to your standard pistol, though these secondary weapons require ammo that you can pick up by repeatedly 
 shooting specific color-coded enemies. At several points, you'll have to defend a location for 
 a set amount of time while enemies come at you from multiple directions. The game says you can 
 point the GunCon3 at the edges of the screen to move between the different positions, but in our 
 experience, this is far less reliable than just thumbing at one of the analog sticks. There are 
 some fun moments in the arcade mode, such as a sequence where you're the gunner on a helicopter 
 as it sweeps through skyscrapers while engaging enemy choppers and ground units. But too much of 
 the game is still beholden to rigid light-gun convention, and it feels like you've gone through 
 all of these fights a hundred times before. The arcade mode is short, though the way the game metes 
 out continues and extra lives means that it'll take at least a few runs before you'll get through 
 the whole thing.  

  The complete mission mode is Time Crisis 4's grand gesture toward modernizing the light-gun game. 
 The results are tepid at best, taking the basic structure of the arcade mode and haphazardly jamming 
 some lengthy new first-person shooter levels in between the traditional, on-rails levels. The basic 
 controls are the same as any console-based FPS, using the left analog stick for movement and the 
 right analog stick for looking around. The twist is that you still aim your weapon with the light-gun 
 part of the GunCon3, basically giving you a third axis of movement to wrangle with, which just 
 complicates things and makes the action feel unwieldy. The actual FPS levels are embarrassingly 
 rudimentary, relying on the same basic jack-in-the-box enemy concepts as the light-gun portions 
 of Time Crisis 4, though with the addition of some bad jumping sections and a painfully slow movement 
 speed. The moments when the game tries to get a little trickier, such as a boss encounter or a 
 fight with a helicopter, really reveal how poorly the FPS controls work. Trying to track a fast-moving 
 enemy while trying to manage your position, where you're looking, and where you're aiming is just 
 a chore.  

           They really have no idea how ridiculous they look.      

  The FPS stuff in the complete mission mode also looks pretty terrible, with lots of flat, wide-open 
 spaces sparsely populated with boxy objects for enemies to jump out from behind. The tight staging 
 of the light-gun levels make them feel a whole lot more dynamic, but there's nothing in Time Crisis 
 4 that makes it look like a PlayStation 3 game. From both a technological and an artistic perspective, 
 it looks a whole lot like the late-'90s arcade games from which it was spawned. It has lots of 
 shiny, over-lit environments that look too clean and sharp to have ever actually existed.  

  Time Crisis 4 is a game that almost seems ashamed of being a light-gun game. Unfortunately, its 
 attempt to transition into a full-on first-person shooter almost comes off as a 10-year-old parody 
 of an FPS, which ultimately just makes the whole package feel all the more dated.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (18 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: babenjorge
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 9, 2009 11:36 pm PT
Review:  This game is just like all the rest. It was a short game but so are all the other ones. Some people 
 said that connecting the Guncom was hard......... well it tuck me like 10 seconds to get it to work. 
 it asks you to shoot the left corner and the right corner of you screen and that was it i was connected. 
 As far as the gameplay goes well it just like the arcade..... shoot and shoot some more. The FPS 
 part of it is a little hard to get used to but if you get this game its because you want to just 
 play the arcade version, it is a great game to have sitting around for yourself or when friends 
 come over, but its not something you will play everyday. Overall it is fun shooting game, make sure 
 you have the Guncom3 gun to take advantage of the full experiance. So for all you TC fans.. you 
 know you want it so just get it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: roonsta
Rating: 5
Date: Nov 8, 2008 10:30 am PT
Review:  Let me make it snappy, Ps3 + Guncon3 controller= B. S! I mean cmon this was supposed to be a hit 
 game! I spent 60 bucks of my b-day money and played this 4 one night at a party and that was it. 
 The controller is probably the cheapest thing ever, and the game itself is terrible. I give it 
 a 5 because it really should get a LITTLE bit of praise, and some people will like it a little 
 more than me. But really ps3, why would you make a WIRED controller thats like 2 ft long wen you 
 have a built in bluetooth device/reader. Oh and did i mention that you need 2 sensors at the top 
 of the TV that make it look like crap. I can tell you that this is a game that you should play 
 at a party and have fun and get it over with, because the fun jolts out of you within a day on 
 this game. Seriously, its short, terrible controls/gun, and bad graphics and nothing like an arcade 
 experience. Stick to the arcades guys, this is a total jip for your money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mathew_vartuli
Rating: 3.5
Date: Jul 6, 2008 10:19 pm PT
Review:  When i first got given time crisis 4, i thought kool. I got the special gun with it, so that made 
 it exciting. I set it up and started playing it. I watched the first cutscene, and i thought that 
 were awesome. I then played it for 10 minutes, and i never played it again. It was one of the worst 
 games that i have played in a while. The way that you shoot is crap and the first person view is 
 very annoying. The characters look like idiots and the quick play mode is another bad feature to 
 this horrible game. I think that spider-man 3 is a better game than this. I don't recommend it 
 to anyone, unless your an idiot. The storyline is pretty dull and you should have no interest in 
 it. I don't care if someone says that its a 8/10, you can argue with me, but i think that it is 
 a worless game. The guns that you are given arn't any good, and to top it off, the audio is terrble. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: versiononev1
Rating: 7
Date: Jun 18, 2008 2:09 am PT
Review:  This is the first Time Crisis now on the PS3, it come with a new alien like G-Con gun that feature 
 two side start and select buttons, rear aiming joystick and calibration and option keys and and 
 the front side a movement joystick and action controls, it much more thatn the original G-Con 2 
 but it suites the game, the game firstly can be a bit of a troble as it now comes with LED sensors 
 that you place on the sides of the TV, the calibration at the start can be long as its hard to 
 find the right angle sometimes, once you sort that out the game can get a bit addictive for a while, 
 the aiming isnt as good as the PS2 version but new feature also now offer a new way to play these 
 include such thigns as time challenge battles using the gun to move, this doesnt seam to be that 
 effective but you can use the front joystick instead, the game features 3 stages, and is quite 
 easy to complete, multiplayer is great and new features such as complete missions is now available 
 and crisis missions are still there 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaHaven
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 15, 2008 10:15 pm PT
Review:  This is what I believe to be the greatest shooter project in many years, under a couple of cercumstances 
 though. I understand that when it was first released it did not come with the guncon 3, which is 
 what facinated me the most about the game. honestly I do believe that this whole series could not 
 be complete without a gun controller. With later releases it was wise of them to include the guncon 
 with it (it was murder to set up the LED recievers to the TV, then calibrate the guncon, but it 
 was more than worth it) . If you are one that does not like light gun styled games you can go die 
 in a hole for all I care. Those who love them, like me, a classic arcade shooter marksmen, welcome 
 to this game. I myself love this game due the fact it only compliments the series that I do so 
 love to play in and now out of the game arcade. What really got me with this game was that it not 
 only had that classic arcade version of the storyline as a feature, but it had the FPS guncon styled 
 game under the "complete mission" option, which is basically your campaign mode, which did include 
 a slightly watered down version of the arcade style. In other words it had two types of levels 
 FPS guncon and arcade that switch off throughout the story. I do not blame those who thought this 
 game was terrible there are some things that could stop you dead in your tracks and say this game 
 is terrible. For one, earlier in the game's release I don't think it included the guncon, now it 
 does, get it with the guncon regardless, if you don't have the guncon 3, get it immeadiately. buying 
 the whole package is worth the $80 (actually $76.89 with tax) . Two, the "one-stick" option on the 
 FPS guncon missions is a mistake, unless your patient with your own aiming to move the camera, 
 try two-stick controls, I thought it worked perfectly it works like the average shooter with two 
 joysticks and the coolest trick is you point the gun at the screen to hit the target, unlike the 
 centerpoint in halo or call of duty you can move the camera where the target is in sight and pop 
 it with point the guncon at it. you'll see what I mean, it requires to multitask a bit, so if you 
 can't play the game like that you are too dumb to function, moving and shooting was so cool when 
 I tried it. Three setting up the LED recievers and calibrating the guncon to your TV, dude, I'm 
 not kidding, it sucked trying to make that work, it does cripple you from sitting down where you 
 want but just stand up, setting up the recievers is a sinch just read the manual and you'll get 
 it in no time. however stand back to calibrate it, I stand 8 feet away from my 36 inch TV, so those 
 with small 15 inch TV might be screwed. I found the worst problem there was that I wasn't standing 
 back far enough and the guncon didn't even work, but don't stand too far away. Find a good spot 
 about 2.5 to 9 feet and stand when you get tired find a chair where you can be at eye level with 
 the TV, but stand, the only time it is worth standing up in videogames is guitarhero, time crisis, 
 and getting more food, maybe getting head. Follow these rules and this game surpasses halo, GUN, 
 Vegas 2, and maybe call of duty. Because you are the aiming sight, which you have over the centerpoint 
 style. The arcade style part of the game didn't shock me to be the amazing gameplay it is, one 
 thing that got me was the arcade version of this requires a pedal to reload and duck for cover 
 which you will need no matter what. In the PS3 version they, with love, give you the "b1" button 
 by the right joystick, on a real gun it's where the hammer is. The FPS guncon style of the game 
 just blew me away when I played it, combining the arcade and standard first person shooter features 
 was amazing. Those who do not have the patiance of the your guy being four feet and you have to 
 guess where you are shooting when you point the gun at the enemy without properly aiming, you are 
 not too bright. One thing I would only change is make a sequel with a little more realistic features, 
 like empty cartridges on the ground, longer storyline (killed it on very easy with one all-nighter, 
 but it was still great to play again and took longer on a harder difficulty of course) , fog being 
 more believable, screen slightly moving up when you shoot the machinegun, when you shoot inanimate 
 objects they could fall apart, maybe add more weapons like a sinper rifle but everybody can get 
 by with the close up feature and shoot them with the pistol. I have awarded many of my kills to 
 hitting some guy a long ways away with my handgun when I just aimed right. This is a lovely game 
 and my suggestion will only make it better, just don't be stupid enough to not understand that 
 there is some things that this game requires to play it in full fashion. Oh and I believe you might 
 want to have not one, but two guncon 3's so you can manually "dual-wield" your guns on arcade with 
 the same screen mutiplayer option, plus it's always fun to have a buddy to play with. I have spent 
 numerous hours the time crisis series in the game arcade and it has burned a mighty whole in my 
 pocket with a boat load of quarters it requires, now I tell you that owning the latest game in 
 the series where I can play it at home for free (short of the $80 and electric bills) just makes 
 me want to shake the hand of all every developer for creating the next-in-line game to the best 
 arcade shooter series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nzbishop
Rating: 7
Date: May 6, 2008 2:55 pm PT
Review:  This game is great fun, if you have the GUN. Without the gun it's a poor game and not worth your 
 money. It's a bit like the sports games on the Wii, the graphics on their own are out-dated and 
 basic, but with the interactive attachment they become loads of fun. Playing the actual arcade 
 game is brilliant fun so are the 20 or so mini games. The Mission mode is a bit light, only the 
 first part is a proper mission the rest of the mission is the arcade game, but it still great fun. 
 The controls on the mission are a bit different, you have the equivalent left and right joy sticks 
 that the normal controller has , so you have 2 movements - moving and camera angle; but to make 
 it a bit different the gun receptacle is not in teh middle of the camera angle, it is where ever 
 you point the gun, so you have 3 different movements to work with. The gun hopefully will also 
 be compatible with other Capcom games in the future on the PS3. One last thing the gun should have 
 been Bluetooth. It seems a bit odd with all the technology that the PS3 has to still have a long 
 USB cable for the gun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 29, 2008 10:27 am PT
Review:  This game probably won't give u as much enjoyment when you play it at the arcade. Reason being 
 ur playing at home and there isn't like any crowd around u to make urself feel cool. The play games 
 exactly like the arcade version just that instead of foot pedal, u need to hold down one button 
 instead, and this is the place whereby i feel uncomfortable with.
  
  The Guncon 3 isn't very nice to aim at with it's design. Just anyone didn't know yet, u have ur 
 guncon 3 wired and u have to place 2 sensor over the top for your TV. Both sensors and Guncon 3 
 would likely make ur area a little wire mess, and both sensors and guncon uses a USB slot each.
 
  
  The port over from the arcade isn't bad, but just that when playing standing or sitted, the feeling 
 is different, it isn't as comfortable to aim while sitted, which i can understand why some review 
 wasn't impressed with this game at all. And our TV i believe, is placed such that ur sitted and 
 playing.
  
  Note that the bundled guncon3 is only available in orange, those in black are sold seperately.
 
  
  Graphics:
  Very average graphics u see here, it's almost identical to the arcade version. But in the FPS mission 
 mode, the graphics felt bad, the environment weren't very reactable, when u shoot a glass, nothing 
 happens. It's something i expected as a PS3 game. 
  Some cutscene were good, some were bad, but overall, felt like a PS2 graphics given a HD polish. 
 Of course, as a arcade port over, we shudn't expect too much right?
  
  Gameplay:
  The gun is very accurate, but given that during ur calibration, it must be done very accurately 
 as well. 
  One feature on the gun i didn't like is the replacement button for the foot pedal, you either have 
 to use ur thumb to hold onto one button, or use both hands to hold a guncon which somewhat resembles 
 a pistol.
  I won't even mention about using controller to play since it bundles with a guncon3. 
  There's 
 a few modes for this game, ur not just getting time crisis 4, but also some mini games and A FPS 
 mission mode which i'm not really into, it's quite boring and the control makes ur muscle stiff 
 after an hour of play.
  There's also the crisis core mission, where it's said the military is training some newbies for 
 preparation of what happened in the arcade mode. i wasn't too interestes also, got turned down 
 by the difficulty.
  
  Sound:
  Nothing spectacular here, very average, there isn't much bass sound for gunfire as well. The dialog 
 isn't good as well.
  
  Unless ur a hardcore Light gun shooter gamer, if not the amt. ur going to spent on this game alone 
 doesn't justify the price. i myself avoid arcade shooters because they're expensive, and thought 
 this would be the time i try a light gun shooter of TC4, it does offer lots of content, but only 
 the minigames and aracde version interest me, yet both are short in gameplay time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AlanHD
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 26, 2008 12:40 am PT
Review:  Time Crsis 4, i bought this game thinking in having fun, and not in spending an hour of my life 
 each time i want to play because of Namco that has the oldest idea of packing in a wired gun and 
 sensors that destory your beautifull tv set.
  I mean do you really call this next gen???
  .Wired guns and sensors when having a built in bluetooth device.
  .Awful!
  .Gameplay is fun 
 for 2 minutes, graphics are old, and i avoid the physics for not giving this game a 1.0.
  .They tried to make TC4 an FPS, but believe me that goal was not achieved at all!!! FPS mode is 
 AFUL from sart to finish.
  .I mean this awfull game doesnt deserve your money, do not even think of getting it, it is really 
 a bad piece of game, and this game shouldnt have been allowed to be released, it takes the next 
 gen gaming its awesome glamour.
  .The trailers of the game said to be the best guncon ever created, but in the end you get an ORANGE 
 WIRED piece of plastic that is by far the worst guncon ever seen, SAVE your money!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: avataraang1
Rating: 2.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 7:31 pm PT
Review:  Time Crisis 4 is the worst Time Crisis of all the series. I cant believe what i was playing. 
  Dont get me wrong I Love time crisis but this game is so bad.
  Luckily for me i Borrowed it from 
 a friend (I didnt have 80$ to spend and thank God i didnt) . 
  The trouble started even before playing. Before you start you have to set up 2 square LED tracker 
 things that see where your gun is. 
  For me on my 32" HDTV it took 35 minutes just to get it barely working (I couldnt even shoot the 
 bottom top left and right corners) .
  First i needed tape to set them straight cuz my TV is round at the top. 
  Then 30 minutes to 
 find the correct place on the top of my TV just so it could "Find" the controller. 
  Whatever happened to the old fashioned time Crisis where you just point and it knows where you 
 are not this LED ****.
  I dont want to write a wall of text so ill just go into Pro's and Con's
  
  Pro's
  -------
 
  You get to shoot things
  
  Cons
  --------
  Heavy Controller which gets your arm tired
  
  Too many buttons on the controller (Whatever 
 happened to the Duck button and the reload button and thats it?)
  
  Set up is a *****
  
  Too many guns to choose from i dont want to get too technical in my point and shoot games I 
 just want to kill things.
  
  2 player is horrible. Instead of split screen it shrinks into 2 seperate screens on the sides of 
 the TV
  
  Waste of money
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: coolcat888
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2008 10:44 pm PT
Review:  I have always been a fan of the Time Crisis series. I played this game in the arcades and I thought 
 it was very immersive. The first thing that I noticed that the Gun Con 3 was a little awkward to 
 hold. It's a well designed Light Gun, there is just something I didn't like about it. What TC4 
 does that the earlier games don't do is: the levels are larger than before. This was one of the 
 downsides to the earlier games. The game handles well. The graphics are ALMOST next-gen. There 
 are some parts of the game that have low res shadows. The voice acting is terrible. You can tell 
 this game was in Japan. The sounds of the guns are, OK. One of the things that I liked was the 
 multi-screen battles. It's a new concept to the series that I like. For 90 dollars, I thought I 
 would be getting something new with my Time Crisis, but I guess not. The game gets repetitive very 
 fast. Split screen is still split the awkward way. Across the middle of the screen, the friendly 
 black bars are still there. Wouldn't it make more sense to split it the normal way? I guess not. 
 In conclusion, only dire hard fans of Time Crisis series should buy this. If Time Crisis 5 ever 
 comes out, I'll make sure to wait for it in the bargain bin. Namco needs to invent some new innovations 
 to the Time Crisis series, or this series will not exist much longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SoralinkGS
Rating: 1.5
Date: Jan 30, 2008 11:08 pm PT
Review:  I wanted this game to be good, I really did. Time Crisis has always been a great light gun game 
 in the past, but this new edition not only doesn't change the experience, but also makes it an 
 overall worse experience. 
  
  Gameplay:
  
  So, first things first, Time Crisis 4 is a light gun game, which means its a game where you point 
 a gun at the screen and shoot stuff, like Duckhunt from the NES days. However, thanks to the HDTV 
 age, Light guns don't work on these new breed of televisions anymore without sensors. So, here 
 comes Namco-Bandai with there first attempt at making a light gun game on something other than 
 that Nintendo System that already has a sensor on the TV. This is where the first problem evolves: 
 the set-up. Not only is this time consuming, it is also frustrating to setup since the sensors 
 have to be in specific areas of the TV and you have make sure its as close to perfect as possible. 
 To top it off, these sensor bars (thats right, its made up of two of them) are connected to the 
 PS3 via USB, which isn't a big deal until you see that your system will probably have to be on 
 a certain side of the TV for this setup to function (hint: its not the side in the instructions.) 
 So after all of that, its time to hook up the Guncon3, which has got to be the worst Guncon yet. 
 First, its not wireless. Yep, Sony went to all the trouble to make the PS3 read bluetooth devices, 
 and Namco pretty much said "screw that" and made this thing corded and also have its own USB cord. 
 Yea, this game uses two USB ports so don't expect to be charging your PS3 controllers on the two 
 ported PS3s. So, anyways, you get this hooked up, and the first thing you notice is that the PS3 
 doesn't recognize it without the game disc playing... useless information, but sad that it needs 
 the software in every copy of a game that uses the Guncon3. Alright, as the game loads, you will 
 notice that you need to use your PS3 controller a few times until you get a calibration screen, 
 aka the "fun" part of the setup. So, with my 37" HDTV, I start the process of calibrating, only 
 to be unsatisfied with my results every time I finish the process. You see, for some reason, there 
 is a nice delay between my guncon's aim and the screen's display. I also noticed that the crosshair 
 in the calibration setup went as fast as it wanted to whenever it wanted. sometimes it was slow, 
 sometimes it kept up, but there definitely was problems occurring. Anyways, you finally decide 
 to move on after 6-7 calibration efforts and re-adjusting the sensors usually makes this process 
 worse.
  
  Now, after all the jumbo, what about the game itself? well, this is where things get worse. The 
 options in the game are pretty limited, with an arcade mode, a complete mission mode, and a minigame 
 mode. All of them involve shooting at enemies or targets, just with different styles. First up, 
 is the arcade, which is a nice half-hour journey with three guys, two of them being you (remember, 
 this is designed for two-player offline co-op) . The two character that are you are just... wow. 
 One of them is Tidus from Final Fantasy and the other is Rico from Just Cause, two completely different 
 worlds, and neither look they belong in the Time Crisis world. To make matters worst, there is 
 this Capitan Rush, the guy you play as in complete mission mode and the the tag-along character 
 in arcade. This guy states the obvious a great deal and also has cornrows for a hair style. He 
 also talks a great deal, and introduces people in the middle of gunfights all the time. Anyways, 
 the game is actually alright in arcade mode, but thanks to the guncon being so weirdly shaped, 
 you never really feel comfortable playing the game, and I also ran into that delay issue being 
 a big problem when the playing fast pace, and my invisible marker is slow to keep up, and it also 
 leads to many inaccurate shots, something important to have in a light gun game.
  
  The other mode is the new "NEXT GEN" mode called complete mission mode. This mode is pretty neat 
 at first, until you realize that all the problems with arcade transfer over and the button layout 
 on the Guncon is terrible. However, the control sticks were actually working well, but the buttons 
 were very confusing and pressing the C buttons never felt comfortable. Still, this mode is better 
 than having nothing after arcade mode and it is better than most will probably state. I just wish 
 the sensors worked better on my TV.
  
  Graphics: 
  
  Good graphics... for a Playstation 2 game. This game has probably the worst graphics on the Playstation 
 3 so far, outside of movie titles. Sure, they spruced it up with a great lighting system, but remove 
 that, and you might as well just released this on the Playstation 2 for Guncon2 users waiting for 
 their final dance. 
  
  Sound:
  
  It could be worse, but this is pretty bad. The sound effects are from Time Crisis 2 and the Voice 
 acting is just horrid. The guy who does Dash is so annoying that it makes you just wanna point 
 the guncon at yourself and keep clicking the trigger. The soundtrack is also unmemorable and the 
 script is laughable. I mean, "terror bites"? thats the best name you could come up for a secret 
 weapon of the government? "disaster game" probably would have been better and made more sense.
 
  
  Overall: 1.5/10.0
  
  This has got to be the worst game I played in the 2007, and should definitely get that award from 
 everywhere. This game should have just came out on the Playstation 2 for the Guncon2 so that people 
 actually saw this a swansong for that segment instead as a doomed beginning for light gun games 
 for Playstation 3. It probably would have given the developers a chance to come up with a better 
 designed Guncon3, too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jrco666
Rating: 3
Date: Dec 15, 2007 3:48 pm PT
Review:  Simply this game has more negatives then it has positives. My biggest problem with the GunCon 3 
 is its right-handed design, which once again ignores south-paws. My second problem with the GunCon 
 3 is calibrating the gun seems impossible. Even if I'm dead certain I was aiming true I get in 
 game only to find I'm shooting to the side even though the gun is pointed at the enemy. Game mechanics 
 I don't like the switching between FPS style, and arcade I find it irritating. I didn't even beat 
 the game, but I can tell you it sucks. I was turned off by the delivery of the story, and fact 
 I anticipated a very generic story. I only said the game was hard, because of the calibrating issue. 
 You can never hit your target so that makes the game hard. The only good thing about buying this 
 game was the fact I got my money back selling the gun on e-bay. Don't waste your money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: velo_matt
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 9, 2007 12:11 pm PT
Review:  the one thing about this game that i can not over look............. is that you can not buy a guncom 
 seperately you can only play two player if your friend has bought the game also....... there are 
 also no plans to seel the guncom separately either! LAME!!!!!!!!! what sense would it make to have 
 a two player game when you can't even buy a gun to play two player......... sure you can use the 
 controler but that just defeats the entire purpose of the game....... if you want to play two player 
 you're gonna have to go to dave and busters and spend an arm and a leg so to guncom YOU SUCK! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: byrdnerd
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 11:05 am PT
Review:  Not gonna make this long, but I don't understand what everyone is complaining about. I find this 
 game fun and exciting! The Guncon can be a bit uncomfortable sometimes (especially in that 1st 
 person mode) but the rail parts are typical TC fun! The graphics are very generic considering that 
 this is suppose to be "next gen" but some of the effects are pretty cool. The voice acting is classic 
 cheese and the sound effects are nothing special, but overall this is definitely a FUN game. Just 
 don't expect anything fantastic and if your still not sure give it a rental or wait till the price 
 drops. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: BlackMax65
Rating: 4.5
Date: Dec 7, 2007 10:52 am PT
Review:  Played Time Crisis 4 at a neighbors house for a few hours and the game play is relatively fun. 
 The biggest gotcha is you can't play two player mode with two GunCom3s without purchasing the game 
 again because the GunCom3 system is only sold with the game. 
  
  So if you want to play two player mode you have to either 1) purchase the game twice, 2) find a 
 friend who already has the game and GunCom3 to bring over or 3) one person plays with GunCom3 and 
 the other plays with the regular game pad controller...
  
  WHAT ARE YOU THINKING Namco Bandai??? This is a light gun game and even more fun with two players... 
 You offer two player mode, why can't you offer the GunCom3 for sale separately from the game???
 
  
  I was going to pick this game up to play with the family along with an extra GunCom3, but I won't 
 be purchasing it now until Namco Bandai gets their head screwed on straight and offers the GunCom3 
 light gun separately. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: raddhazard
Rating: 4.5
Date: Nov 27, 2007 11:18 am PT
Review:  Time Crisis 3 still stands as one of the best light gun shooters ever made. Now, i was looking forward 
 to trying this and left utterly shocked and disgusted.
  First off, the FPS scenes have no business being in this game. The controls feel busted and cover 
 mechanics just don't work well. Now as far as the actual gameplay, it's the same as the previous 
 games, only not as fun.
  While the first 3 games had some good level variety, this one grows stale quick. Graphic wise, it 
 looks pretty much the same as Time Crisis 3. This wouldn't be a bad thing if it were on a PS2, but 
 i seriously expected more.
  
  For light gun shooters to survive in todays market, it needs variety, needs something to keep you 
 playing. Seriously the game is just boring, and the duck and cover seems forced in this one.
  
  For the money, it's overpriced and is not worth it at all. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: OmegaNemesis28
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 22, 2007 9:26 pm PT
Review:  I am a die hard arcade rail shooter fan. The rail shooter genre has incredible titles and Time 
 Crisis is one of the many and probably most famous other then House of the Dead.
  
  With this said, I have played and mutilated EVERY Time Crisis game to date at both the arcade and 
 on the consoles. I have ripped these games apart over and over. And I love them as they are one 
 of the many games like RE and FF that got me into video gaming.
  
  I have played Time Crisis 4 in the arcade many many times before the PS3 version. I have to say 
 the arcade version wasn't all too great. Like, the game felt rushed. There wasn't much plot to 
 it and everything flopped ontop of each other. I figured the console version would fix this.
  
  I was DEAD wrong.
  The game retains the arcade version and doesn't fix ANYTHING in it. It 
 just adds on. And even THAT feels rushed. Get a grip here, don't ruin the franchise. Or maybe this 
 will be like the whole Devil May Cry 2 thing? Hopefully.
  
  First, the gameplay feels rushed like I said. You point and shoot. Nothing special. And the whole 
 3 screen battle thing is glitched out of it's mind. You can, even in the arcade. It doesn't feel 
 right.
  
  Second, the graphics. I don't care what anyone says. I dont care if the government says it but 
 Time Crisis 4's graphics are AMAZING. HOW? AM I OUT OF MY MIND? No people. You're the ones out 
 of your minds. Simple....
  
  It's an arcade game.
  End of story. When a game like Pacman was brought to the Gamecube did you people whine and cry 
 because it was the same colored ball in the same black space with the same colored ghosts? Nope. 
 Why should this be different? It's a direct port from the arcade and for an arcade game this is 
 THE best looking arcade game out there. You can't get better then this right now people.
  
  The game has alot of pre-rendered cut scenes too. Again - arcade game people. They didnt have an 
 actual PS3 in those arcade cabinents. Nor a full blown computer.
  
  Third, the story. Not so great either. Everything is played out and said within actuall gameplay. 
 I mean like - the characters are talking while you're shooting at people. Are you going to pay 
 attention to what you're shooting at or the chit-chat. Even paying attention to the chit chat don't 
 help you solve the story. None of it makes sense. The FPS part of the game sums the rest up but 
 that stuff should be in the actuall Arcade mode. From the arcade mode all I know is this - 2 guys 
 (VSSE) walk into an airport and start shooting. On a mission to stop weapon trade. These bio weapons 
 called Terror Bites are the main weapon. You meet a guy named Captain Rush. All enemies are ex-US 
 Military. They are planning to blow up some cities with stealth bombers. Um - that's it.
  
  Why is Wild Dog involved? What is up with the main bad guy? Who is he and why? Why did these US 
 army guys go a-wall? What is the point of this game? Until you play the FPS missions you wont find 
 out.
  
  Fourth, the sound. Not much to say. It's all bang bang. No reall sountrack. Though the voice acting 
 is not also horrible but there is no synch ingame at all. The people talk but no mouths move. Only 
 in cutscenes and even then it's bad.
  
  That about sums up the game - horrid. Still an okay RailGun game.
  
  The HUGE letdown about 
 this is the Guncon 3. I've been waiting along with hundreds of people for this thing and I think 
 it has as many flaws as 15 titanics. It's big, bulky - looks like it SHOULD work but doesn't. And 
 it's NOT wireless! The stupid sensors don't work either. Nice lightgun, the best one ever - IN 
 THEORY!
  
  I setup the sensors (who's wire barely make it to my PS3) and I stand directly infront of my TV 
 as far as possible. The guncon wont work and it's LED is bright red. This is a bad thing. The guncon's 
 USB wire is about 4 feet long. I had to get 2 USB extenders in order for the damn thing to work. 
 With a ruler in hand, I measure to a point where the guncon worked for me. The distance from the 
 TV to where I stood and the guncon worked was 12 feet! WTF? You give me a crappy and horrid looking 
 guncon with a wire that only goes 4 feet but I need to stand 12 feet to make it work?!
  
  So - if you buy Time Crisis 4.... You'll be receiving....
  1. Crappy Game
  2. Crappy Peripheral
 
  3. and loads of frustration and feeling of being ripped off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ian2k01
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2007 10:54 pm PT
Review:  Story line: Arcade mode - Pretty simple planned. Basically fighting against ex-military and bosses, 
 saving the world. By the way I have not completed the other mode yet.
  
  Resolution: With 720p, it is a big step up from the previous episodes. However, in comparison to 
 other PS3 major big hits, it is still not crystal clear enough.
  
  Length: Good length. 3 major stages on the arcade mode, expect to finish the game within 2 hours. 
 Although it's only 2 hours but hey 2 hours on an arcade is hella long.
  
  Experience and Hints: I spent about 1.5 - 2 hours on the arcade mode (Easy) . So each time after 
 you die without anymore continues, you will get a continue increase. Once you have finished the 
 game, you will unlock infinite bullet handgun, so you don't need to keep reloading once in a while. 
 Plus you also get infinite continues and 9 bars of health, these will come handy when you're doing 
 "very hard" difficulty.
  
  
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
