-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TimeShift
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/timeshift/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 The ability to pause, slow, and rewind time is an interesting one.
 Weapons are cool and very satisfying to shoot.
 Solid online mode.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 There are four-panel comic strips with better stories.
 Mission objectives are generally uninteresting.
 Combat can get repetitive.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Jan 31, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 6.5
Critic Score: 7.0, 15 Review (s)
User Score: 7.5, 631 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Sierra Entertainment
Developer: Saber Interactive
Genre: Sci-Fi First-Person...
Date: Nov 19, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
An interesting time-shifting mechanic and fun-to-shoot weapons can't make up for the rest of TimeShift's 
 run-of-the-mill first-person shooter gameplay. 

  Given TimeShift's long, tumultuous development cycle that saw the game change platforms, swap publishers, 
 and miss several release dates, it's surprising the game has made it to stores at all. So it's 
 too bad that TimeShift isn't really worth the wait, thanks to a barely-there story, extremely rudimentary 
 puzzles, and tired first-person shooter objectives like going through an entire level just to push 
 a button. It does have some redeeming features, though. It's fun to pause time and whale on helpless 
 soldiers, and some of the weapons are really satisfying to shoot.  

           Let's do the time warp again.      

  If you need more out of a game's story than "shoot 
 guys until the credits roll because an angry soldier and a computer voice say so," you're in trouble 
 here. If you piece together the fragmented cutscenes, scour the manual, and read the back of the 
 box, you'll learn that a certain Dr. Krone has stolen a special suit that lets its user travel 
 through time. This has created an alternate reality, which is a bad thing -- you'll have to trust 
 the game on that, because it's tough to figure out just what has happened that's so bad, other 
 than a big robot spider that shoots lasers terrorizing the city. (OK, maybe that is bad.) It's 
 up to you to take the other, experimental beta suit (ohhhh, dangerous!) , travel through time, and 
 stop Dr. Krone from doing something sinister -- which he has already done, so you want to undo whatever 
 it is he's doneor something.  

  Even though the story is an incoherent mess, it's still possible to enjoy TimeShift. Why? Because 
 you can time-shift. Your suit has the ability to pause, slow down, or even reverse time -- kind of 
 like a TiVo you can wear. This lets you pause the action, run up to a guy, and shoot him to bits. 
 Or if you're feeling like humiliating him before you kill him, you can steal his weapon, restart 
 time, and watch as he wonders where the heck it went, and then make him dead with a barrage of 
 bullets. It's even possible to regenerate health by seeking cover and pausing time. You can't rewind 
 time and prevent your own death, but if you're quick you can reverse it and unstick a grenade from 
 yourself. You only have a limited amount of time you can manipulate before the suit's energy runs 
 out, but it regenerates quickly. The game promises all sorts of other "exciting" uses for altering 
 the flow of time, but it never really capitalizes on the potential of the mechanic. Rather than 
 challenging you with complex puzzles that require you to think outside the box or use the game's 
 quality physics engine, you're mostly limited to slowing down time so you can press two buttons 
 in quick succession or pausing time so that you can get through a door before it closes. Thank 
 goodness for technology.  

  Other than the time-shifting stuff, the rest of TimeShift plays like a linear, run-of-the mill 
 first-person shooter -- and a dated one at that. Most of the level objectives are routine tasks like 
 finding a button that opens a door or, sometimes, locating a lever that opens a door. Heck, sometimes 
 you have to do both! There are a few scenarios where you ride around on an ATV and some others 
 where you man a turret on an airship, but most of the time you'll be moving from checkpoint to 
 checkpoint on foot, taking out wave after wave of unintelligent foes. It's good, then, that the 
 gunplay is entertaining. This is mostly due to the game's powerful weapons that are so much fun 
 to shoot. It might not be exactly challenging, but it's fun to pause time and take the crossbow 
 that shoots an arrow that sticks in the target and then blows up, and then unpause time and watch 
 your foe explode into a charred, bloody mess. There are other cool weapons too, like the automatic 
 gun that looks like it shoots bullets, but these bullets cause the target to burst into flames 
 when they hit, and then the dude screams like a little girl as he fries. Even the basic machine 
 gun is powerful and useful all the way through the game. There's always plenty of ammo to be found, 
 so you never have to be conservative with your bullets.  

  It's too bad that these powerful weapons, combined with the ability to manipulate time, make it 
 all too easy to fall into a rut of approaching every situation in the same way. Even on the harder 
 difficulty settings you can be successful finding cover, pausing time, unleashing a few shots, 
 and then retreating to cover while your suit and health recharge. Enemies won't always stay back 
 and wait for you to cap them, but their aggressiveness actually makes things easier. You can hide, 
 watch their dot on the radar get closer, and then shoot them as soon as they come around the corner. 
 There are a few instances where you'll have no choice but to seek shelter behind destructible cover, 
 but those situations are rare, and there's usually someplace safe you can scramble to once you've 
 been flushed out.  

  In addition to a lengthy 10- to 12-hour single-player campaign, TimeShift offers a full-featured 
 multiplayer component that can be played online or via a LAN connection. A modified version of 
 the single-player game's time-shifting ability is found here, too. You can slow, pause, or rewind 
 time by throwing one of three different chrono grenades. Everyone within the blast radius of an 
 explosion is affected. It's a neat idea, but one that people seem all too keen to rely on -- they 
 just throw them like crazy when they see another person. You can play ranked and unranked matches 
 in a wide variety of game types. There's deathmatch and team deathmatch, one-on-one, capture the 
 flag, and a few unique modes. King of time has you try to gain control of the time sphere, which 
 makes the person who holds it impervious to time effects, allowing them to rack up kills with ease. 
 Another is called meltdown madness. This is a team mode where you try to prevent the other team's 
 machine from counting down by throwing chrono grenades at it. You can also create your own fun 
 by using the multiplayer modifiers. These let you increase players' running and jumping abilities, 
 reduce gravity, or play alternate game types like rockets or snipers only, vampires, or last man 
 standing. The multiplayer mode isn't exactly amazing, but it definitely has its moments.  

           If nothing else it sure is satisfying blowing guys to bits in TimeShift.      

  One 
 of the reasons TimeShift was delayed so long was because the visuals in the early versions of the 
 game weren't up to par. It's not an amazing-looking game, but the graphics have improved significantly 
 over time and there are some nice visual effects to be seen. Explosions look fantastic, especially 
 when viewed while the game is in slow-motion or paused. It's not just the explosions that look 
 good, but the object being destroyed as well. Crates will splinter, bad guys' limbs will fly in 
 all different directions -- there's plenty of carnage. The rain effects in the first level are good, 
 too, though they feel overdone, as if the developer were showing off how hard it had worked on 
 making the game look better. The quality of the rest of the game's visuals depend on what system 
 you're using to play the game. The PC version looks best thanks to higher-resolution textures and 
 a fast, smooth frame rate. Both the Xbox 360 and the PlayStation 3 have markedly lower-quality 
 texture work and the frame rate experiences frequent hitches, especially in the first few levels. 

  It's ironic that TimeShift had such a long development cycle, because the game really could have 
 benefitted from more time in development. If the story had been fleshed out more and the developer 
 had made the decision to challenge players with tougher puzzles and mission objectives, this could 
 have been a very good, if not great game. Instead, it's just another ho-hum first-person shooter 
 with an interesting gimmick.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: M0wen10
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:55 am PT
Review:  For a game with horrible, out-dated graphics it still has plenty of plus sides to make it great 
 and recommendable for fans of the first-person shooter genre.
  
  When you get warped back in time to stop a madman it feels very strange and the graphics don't 
 make the game look very promising. But stick with it, because the gameplay will change your view 
 completely (hopefully anyway) because the guns look cool, and most of them do cool things. These 
 include a gun called thunderbolt, which fires out darts, which stick to the enemies and then blow 
 them up. Also the grenades are good because you don't have to just get the grenade at the enemies 
 feet like war games etc. but aim at them because the grenades stick to them and there is no way 
 to get it off. I don't have to tell you the finishing result of that.
  But best of all is the ability to slow, stop and reverse time. You can make enemies look ridiculous 
 by freezing time and then taking there weapon and they don't know what happened to it.
  
  Story- 3/5
  Characters- 2/5
  Gameplay- 4/5
  Controls- 4/5
  Sound- 2/5
  Graphics- 2/5
 
  Length- 3/5
  Replayability- 4/5
  
  Good Points: Timeshift whenever you want, cool weapons, good levels, gory gameplay
  
  Bad Points: 
 Some random cutscenes don't make sense, poor graphics 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 8, 2009 4:50 am PT
Review:  Plagued by lengthy delays and a first attempt that just didn't have what it takes to go head-to-head 
 with the PlayStation 3's launch day shooter (the addictively enjoyable Resistance: Fall of Man) , 
 TimeShift has been reworked into a playable and often enjoyable first-person shooter with an interesting 
 sci-fi twist. Sierra takes us into a possible future or alternate past as a hero who can bend time 
 takes on a number of enemies to get his revenge on the man who wronged him. The problem is that 
 even with a futuristic gimmick, this one remains to be fun-yet-familiar action game. TimeShift 
 has a story somewhere among the shooting and time-bending but you wouldn't really know it because 
 rarely does the game stop to explain why you're chasing the game's villain through space and time. 
 You see, you play a physicist who returns to his experimental facility only to find that he and 
 all his colleagues have been betrayed by Dr. Aiden Krone, who steals an experimental Beta Suit 
 that allows him to make a Time Jump across the space-time continuum. The problem is that Krone's 
 betrayal has altered the course of history as we know it and he has installed himself as ruler 
 of an alternate reality where the rain hardly stops and the last good citizens of the Alpha District 
 have started an uprising against Krone. Wearing a Beta Suit, you jump into time to stop Krone once 
 and for all. It sounds like an interesting setup, doesn't it? The problem is that these bits of 
 information are all pieced together by the game's manual and the few cut scenes that pop up throughout 
 the game.
  
  The game really begins after you Time Jump into the back alley of an alternate 1930s. You find 
 yourself disoriented as the echo of gunfire can be heard in the backgrounds and explosions that 
 have chunks of concrete raining down around you. You are rescued by a group of resistance fighters 
 that are struggling to restore order and put Dr. Krone in his place. Joining the resistance, you 
 pick up arms against Krone and his vast army that includes futuristic mechanized monstrosities. 
 So you can imagine you have your hands full and it's certainly not going to be easy.
  
  Thankfully, you'll have an interesting arsenal on your side. Your list of weapons includes pistols 
 and machine guns but also guns like the ScatterGun (a sort of shotgun) or the ThunderBolt (a crossbow 
 that shoots an energy bolt) . You can use laser trip mines or toss grenades that can actually stick 
 to the enemy's armor. The weapons come with their primary and secondary fire and attack capabilities 
 and they simply make the shooting acting fun. Still, what sets this game apart from every other 
 first-person shooter is the Beta Suit. The suit has the capabilities to bend time (called TimeShifting) 
 such as the ability to slow time, reverse it, fast forward time and even stop it altogether. By 
 pressing the L1 button you can activate the TimeShifting power of the suit but the three different 
 time manipulating abilities are mapped to the face buttons. These abilities are used to solve the 
 game's puzzles. To race through a corridor that will explode if you ran through it on your own 
 would mean certain death but if you were to rewind the exact moment the corridor explodes and you 
 can safely run through it. Timeshifting also plays a role in making the action more diverse. The 
 Time Stop feature, for instance, allows you to freeze everything long enough for you to walk up 
 to an enemy and snatch the gun from his hands. 
  
  Even with these neat abilities and cool weapons, the game seldom feels fresh enough to rival recent 
 first-person shooters like Call of Duty 4 or Halo 3 for the Xbox 360. In fact, the various locales 
 you'll visit throughout your adventure just lead to scenarios that have that been-there-done-that 
 feel to them. Of course, there are moments that really drive home the feeling that you're playing 
 a different kind of shooter. It is these moments (many of which come later in the game) that make 
 this game fun enough to see through to the end. There's also a good multiplayer mode to look forward 
 to when you're done with the single-player game.
  
  TimeShift is actually a pretty game and there are times when the visual effects and character models 
 do look really good. Then again, the character models can look a bit odd in certain places and 
 sometimes the faces look really unrealistic. At least the backgrounds look amazing and there's 
 diversity in the locales you'll be visiting. The game also uses rag-doll effects and puts them 
 to good use. You won't help but giggle at grenades launching enemies up in the air or watching 
 them flail their arms comically when you toss a sticky grenade on them. The game's sound, sadly, 
 is a forgettable aspect of the game that doesn't add a good soundtrack or stellar voice acting. 
 The game does offer detailed sound effects that sound good when you play the game on a good sound 
 system. TimeShift for the PlayStation 3 is a by-the-numbers first-person shooter that might not 
 be as amazing as it could have been but this is still a very engaging action game with enough sci-fi 
 shooting action for fans of the genre. Yes, the PS3 has seen better (on launch day, no less) , but 
 for those who like their shooters with an interesting twist then this is definitely a game you 
 will one to pick up. The more casual fan of the genre should just give this game a nice weekend 
 rental.
  
  Gameplay: 7.5
  The strafing and shooting is typical of most first-person shooters but it's the TimeShifting ability 
 that adds variety to the gameplay. Still, this gimmick isn't inventive enough to save it from a 
 confusing story or the occasionally been-there-done-that level design that mixes in with the game's 
 most stellar moments.
  
  Graphics: 8.0
  Visually, we've seen better on the PS3 but what is seen here isn't so bad considering there are 
 some wonderfully detailed backgrounds and, of course, the dazzling special effects. The character 
 models can look a bit bulky at times and some faces just don't look as good as some others.
  
  Sound: 7.5
  The game's soundtrack is not as good as it should have been and the voice acting 
 sounds phoned in but at least it's not too horrible. There are some excellent sound effects that 
 sound amazing if your console is hooked up to a great sound system.
  Difficulty: Medium
  Even in the game's medium difficulty setting, the enemy can overwhelm you and many of them can 
 shoot more accurately than your allies. There are also some challenging situations that will have 
 you glad that there's a checkpoint save.
  Concept: 7.5
  The Beta Suit's TimeShifting abilities make for some inventive gameplay moments and pausing time 
 enough to snatch an enemy's weapons from them is always good for a laugh. Still, bending time is 
 the only element that sets this shooter apart. There's a good online multiplayer mode, though.
 
  
  Multiplayer: 8.0
  Up to 16 gamers can take each another on in the game's online multiplayer mode that is actually 
 very good despite a few slowdowns here and there. The game mode types are typical Deathmatch and 
 Team Deathmatch variations and you can always modify multiplayer game modes to add variety to the 
 matches.
  
  Overall: 7.5
  While not as brilliant or as stunningly beautiful as other first-person shooters already available, 
 TimeShift is still a fun shooter that plays up the action rather well. Despite a disorienting story 
 that will leave gamers confused by the plot, it's the action and time-manipulating gimmick that 
 will hook gamers in long enough to see it through to the end. It's a fun game but the PS3 has seen 
 better.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Frostmore33
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 26, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  I am a pretty big FPS fan. Somethings that stick out to me are the shooting, multiplayer, story 
 and graphics. Though I've looked I had never found a fun shoter on my PS3. Until Now.
  
  No it dosn't have a great story.
  No it dosn't have multiplayer.
  However it is just plain 
 fun.
  
  For example each gun has two features. The first weopon you recieve is a handheld machine gun... 
 with a rocket launcher. Whoever came up with that idea is a genius. Then there is a special feature 
 which lets you control the fabric of time. Now movies which contain the time control stuff are 
 usely pretty crap. But this is just brilliant. Just yesterday i slowed time and then fired a grenade 
 at the enemy. He slowly looks at his feet and prepares to duck for cover. But before he could it 
 explodes. Watching his burnt and bloody body fly slowly towards the wall is some of the most fun 
 you'll ever have.
  
  Then there is the way this game looks. The graphics in this game takes full use of the playstations 
 hardware. It is stunning.
  
  This is one of the games where you want to invite your mates over just to show them whats happening.
 
  
  So if you are looking for great shooter with awsome online play and some of the best graphics and 
 sound effects around this is a great game for you. For everyone else give it a miss. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Soar57
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:44 am PT
Review:  Time shfit is about an anonmous man who goes back in time to stop Dr. Krone. That's your story. 
 All of it. 
  
  During the game, you will sabotage an enemy base, defend a Zeppelin, take down a giant walker, 
 and drive a Quad in the snowy alpines. Normally, this would be awesome to do in a game, but Timeshift 
 executes each of these things poorly. The AI is brain-dead, so sabotaging the base is either extremely 
 hard or a cakewalk. Defending a Zeppelin is exciting, but most times they'll be attacking your 
 blindspot, making it really frustrating. The vehicle controls for the Quad are broken. Driving 
 it in FP is even more frustrating. 
  
  Wierd glitches plague the otherwise surprisingly good graphics. When you kill an enemy he goes 
 into the rag-doll effect sadly. He might even get stuck in a wall or the floor.
  
  The weapons of this game are its saving grace. As if inspired by Insomniac, these weapons include 
 exploding arrows, plasma guns, lava launchers, etc. 
  
  The last thing i want to cover is the timeshift mechanics. They include slow time, stop time, or 
 reverse time. The slow time is useful for when you need to get through a section quickly, while 
 the stop time can save you from death. The reverse time is usually used for some of the puzzles 
 that are included in this game. Although there are limits, for the game says that you cannot create 
 a paradox.
  
  All in all, a pretty average shooter with some above average weapons. This could've been an interesting 
 shooter if the gameplay was improved and the story rampved up. Aw well, what could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 4, 2008 12:54 pm PT
Review:  I was impressed that there is such a game where you can stop, slow and retrieve the time.
  At first I wasn't to into this game because the main reason a got this game was just to have something 
 to play. I went deep in the game and it is really interesting.
  To be honest I got a little los of the main history so I am a little clueless of what was the reason 
 of some mission. The graphics aren't 100% the best but they aren't the worse out-there. Weapons 
 are nice; I like the weapons I saw in this game.
  The online playing is great but a little confusing because you got to use the time power and like 
 said before; the weapons are nice also on online game.
  There aren't that many people playing this game since it has almost a year since it came out, but 
 still the single playing is good to have fun.
  I didn't like that your partners were never with you, they aren't that much of a help and they 
 are annoying as hell when you hear them talking.
  I loved when you can blow peoples body away and in pieces hehe.
  
  HERE IS A GAME GUIDE IF 
 ANYONE NEEDS ONE AND CANT FIND ONE:
  http://www. sendspace. com/file/dhdn8t
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchetcooper1
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 11, 2008 7:14 pm PT
Review:  Not many people have played this game, but its really great. Its a bit difficult at times, but 
 still great. I consider it slightly better than Halo. Maybe even better than Metal Gear Solid, 
 but that's maybe just IMO cuz I like First Person Shooter's better than Third Person Shooter's. 
 I think its extremely underrated and not to be taken lightly. I recommend it to anyone. Definitely 
 worth 60 bucks. I think it could've been longer and simpler. Great controls, graphics has a little 
 bit of flaws but overrall a great First Person Shooter. I really like the whole controlling the 
 flow of time getup. Just bought Call of Duty 4 and haven't played it yet, but I'll see which is 
 the better of these two. I don't understand these critics, they score these games based on the 
 irrelevant. I hardly listen to them, user reviews are much better. If you have the time or the 
 cash and are near a local Gamestop try to pick it up. I doubt you'll regret it. My compliments 
 to Sierra Games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: warlock42gamer
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 9, 2008 12:27 pm PT
Review:  TIMESHIFT IS A SCI FI GAME DREAM COME TRUE THIS IS A STORY OF A MAN NAMED DOCTER AIDEN CRONE A 
 MAN WITH A DREAM NOT JUST ANY DREAM A BIG ONE HE WANTS TO TRAVEL TROUGH TIME!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! FAR 
 OUT RIGHT BUT HE MADE A BIG MISTAKE LIKE IN DANGERING THE HOLD OF EXCISTANCE KIND OF BIG MISTAKE 
 BUT HEY WE ALL MAKE MISTAKES THAT THREATEN HUMANITY JUST LOOK AT GEORGE W. BUSH AND THE WHOLE POLITICAL 
 STAND (= BUT ANY WAY ONE MAN ARMED WITH THE BETA SUIT A WEOPON OF GREAT POWER AND A BIG ARSENAL 
 OF TOYS AND THE "OCUPANTS" TO HELP HIM KILL THE DOCTER BUT EASIER SAID THAN DONE AND THE MISSION 
 IS FAILING AND YOU ARE THE ONLY CHANCE THEY HAVE TO STOP THE MADNESS AND KEEP THE SPACE TIME CONTINUM 
 FROM SHATTERING AND DESTROYING YOUR UNIVERSE BUT HEY NO PRESURE AND IVE ONLY PLAYED THE DEMO AND 
 I NO THIS **** HOW MIXXED UP CAN U GET ANY WAYPLAY THE GAME SOLO OR ONLINE TO MASTER TIME .................... MASTER 
 TIME AND BECOME THE ULTIMATE WEOPON  
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: steve-m92
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jul 21, 2008 12:47 pm PT
Review:  Now i would be the first to admit that timeshift is by no means perfect, with its scatterbrain 
 story and unintelligent foes, but i believe that it does not deserve such a harsh review. 
  
  Consider timeshifts good points, the weapons are fun to use against Dr Krones troops, not only 
 that, but infinite possibilities are opened to the user when controlling time is introduced. Contrary 
 to popular opinion, i think the time powers are used quite well to solve problems, after all, most 
 gamers would want to be using them to fight the bad guys and not trying to find out how the lift 
 works.
  
  If you try not to pay too much attention to the storyline and overlook some of timeshifts minor 
 shortcomings, you'll find a great and imaginative game hidden underneath. there are better games 
 out there, but timeshift has been getting a lot of undue criticism. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: holte_ender8
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 17, 2008 2:54 am PT
Review:  If you are a FPS fan then you will love this game.
  
  I can't believe Gamespots review, its stupid. Timeshift is what you would want from your FPS, solve 
 puzzles, use futuristic powerful weapons, graphics are fantastic, vehicles add depth, bosses are 
 hard. The time control is so unique and effective.
  
  I LOVE THIS GAME and if you genuinely like FPS's then listen to me and trust me. The campaign mode 
 is very long and addictive. Veterans you will really appreciate the HARD difficulty as it is pure 
 simple fun. Script is pretty funny too. This doesn't get a 10 because the story is unclear but 
 the gameplay is immaculate.
  
  I really enjoyed the graphics, surroundings were beautiful, especially the rain, the run down urban 
 environments, and the slow-down of everything whilst using the time ability. Such a great game, 
 I was loving it more and more as it went through. It was quite emotional when it ended. Not because 
 of the storyline, but like with other great titles, when you've completed something you enjoyed 
 so much, you naturally wish it was never-ending
  
  Online is pretty sweet, no lag and very fast similar to Unreal, but the campaign mode was so much 
 fun I reall loved it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: salbenali
Rating: 1
Date: Jun 28, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  Is this a joke? I was really looking forward to this game. When I started playing it seemed very 
 PS one. I kept playing thinking that it had to get better. After all, this is for PS3 right?!?!?!? 
 Nope not at all. If you hide the console and play the game, you would think that you were playing 
 a PS one game. This game had a great idea with the time manipulation theme. I have to admit, manipulating 
 time was a fun thing to do in the game. But the game fell short in everything else. I am hoping 
 for another game that would have the same time manipulation feature because this one is plainly 
 a joke. I don't know when video game companies will realize that this is a PS3 not PS2 or for that 
 matter 1. They should produce game with much better quality. Please make games that deserve that 
 deserve being played on a next-gen console. But again for those who enjoyed this game, more power 
 to you! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TarkatanWarrior
Rating: 5
Date: Jun 16, 2008 6:31 am PT
Review:  *Yawn*
  
  When I first picked up this game, it was 34.99$, I was happy with the price, it seemed like I'd 
 atleast get my money's worth, boy was I wrong.
  
  I just finished a review on F. E. A. R. One of the most generic shooters ever. Then, along comes timeshift. 
 Atleast F. E. A. R. doesn't promise crazy things like this game does. The ability to travel through 
 time should be a gamers dream, not a chore. 
  
  There's nothing wrong with the use of your time altering ability, except for the fact that it's 
 only really useful in certain circumstances. I can go through the firefights fine without changing 
 time at all, and more often than not when I do alter time I wind up in more trouble than I was 
 before. 
  
  Timeshift could have been so good... a really cool concept (granted the story was terrible, if 
 there) and some interesting guns, but somehow it got trapped up in the same line of generic shooters 
 that have been coming out lately promising big, but not holding up.
  
  Even Jericho is better than this.. and that's saying something.
  
  Worse still, is that usually 
 with the generic, boring shooters you find yourself through the game in a few hours, ready to put 
 it away/sell it, and never play it again, but timeshift decided to have an extra lengthy campaign 
 mode. Christ, the only reason I sat through it was because I can't stand not finishing a game once 
 I've started it, but I nearly broke my rule for this one.
  
  Rent timeshift, enjoy playing with time for an hour or so, and then return it early for some credit 
 on your next rental. DON'T BUY IT. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: aaronobst
Rating: 7
Date: Jul 10, 2008 6:13 am PT
Review:  Timeshift was given a significant amount of anticipation and manages adequately to deliver some 
 of it. The game is solid enough to be a cut above mediocre but not enough to be classified as great
 
  
  The concept of being able to manipulate with short bursts of time is just genius and Timeshift 
 nails the time portion of it. It's the rest of the game that makes it slightly above average. Also 
 on the note of concepts this game gas great design to it, the Timeshifter's suit looks beyond awesome 
 along with the incredibly creative weapons makes the design of Timeshift phenomenal.
  
  Gameplay in Timeshift is fun at times and stale at others. The thrill of pausing time and unloading 
 an entire magazine of bullets into an enemies face then stepping back and watching the physics 
 do their work is amusing, to say the least. The time-related puzzles in the game are also very 
 cool and complement the rest of the time factors in the game. However it's the combat falls short 
 a bit with the easiest way to solve any conflict being to simply pause time-snipe a headshot-unpause 
 becoming almost a routine rather than a tactic. The weapons as interesting and creative as they 
 are still feel a little short on balance and therefore the gunplay possess a slight underpowered 
 feel to it.
  
  Technical-Wise Timeshift might not be the best but is certainly is great. The Game's graphics exceed 
 that of most First Person Shooters, during rainfall watching the individual raindrops fall from 
 the sky is nothing short of amazing and the explosions, muzzle flashes, particles, gory explosions 
 and non-vanishing bloodstained footprints all do their part in making Timeshift's Graphics very 
 appealing
  
  The present sound effects also hold up very well from the delayed sound of automatic gunfire during 
 time slowing to the sounds of the weapons reloading set the standpoint of the sounds as solid. 
 Also Audio-Wise the Soundtrack in this game are simply astonishing.
  
  Timeshift's story are easily one of its greatest cons, the story is confusing, rushed, unfulfilling 
 and dry with a confusing ending.
  
  Overall Timeshift is an appealing, solid shooter with a fair share of flaws but with more pros 
 than cons, making Timeshift a game that is very well worth picking up, whether it be a Purchase 
 or a Rental.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: richardgleeko
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 5, 2008 4:23 am PT
Review:  I'm pretty critical on the FPS genre, considering that it's one of my favorite types of games out 
 on the market. I've seen the way FPSes have evolved from the early Duke Nukem, Quake, and Unreal 
 Tournament days. The concept of adding time manipulation to the equation adds a new way of playing. 
 The ability to slow, stop, or reverse time to get through obstacles makes typical FPS veterans 
 think of more effective ways to overcome any obstacle the game may throw at you. I definitely enjoyed 
 stopping time, shooting an enemy controlling a turret with the SpreadGun (TimeShift's version of 
 a classic shotgun) , and resuming time and watching the enemy fall out of the seat.
  
  For the most part, I only got upset when I didn't realize there was Sixaxis functionality in the 
 game. I'd tilt the controller to find a way to set my forearms on my lap (sometimes in the middle 
 of a reload) , and the character would inadvertently bash, canceling my reload. That often led to 
 untimely deaths, merely because I wasn't prepared to still have an empty clip in the currently 
 equipped gun.
  
  Aside from that, I had no other problems with the game. I'm currently playing through on the "casual" 
 difficulty setting. Even that is good enough of a challenge for anyone that has never touched the 
 game before, or for those that have gotten a taste of the demo and want to see more. Once I complete 
 the game, I'll probably try the tougher difficulty settings, after I get a taste of the multiplayer 
 action.
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Donnyp
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 29, 2008 12:12 pm PT
Review:  Now me being a sucker for time shifting elements I just couldnt help but love this game. Yes Gamespot 
 is right to say its a run of the mill first person shooting standards but they probably didnt nit 
 pick it to the point vultures wouldnt be interested. Luckily. Im here for the common people. My 
 brethren.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Story:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  Now the game starts with a news reporter standing outside a a fence and on the inside is a smoking 
 hole caused by some sort of explosion. You then are shown that your character is running through 
 the halls and alarms are going off telling you to leave. You get in the Time suit and it takes 
 you to the Alpha suits location and time. From here your tale is one of revenge and struggle with 
 an opposing scientist filled with flash backs to show you what you lost and what happened exactly. 
 Semi basic but still better then most First person shooters. i give it a 7/10.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Controls:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  The controls to my suprise were beautiful and quite 
 simple to grasp. The game makes small use of the sixaxis controller that didn't interfere with 
 the gameplay at all. When you swing the controller your character swings his weapon. Or you can 
 just press O. The time Freezing menu is easy to read and has a fast reaction spead. With all this 
 adding up to Responsive quick controls and a easy driving system i give it a 10/10.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Sound:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  Now alot of the weapons and characters have there own 
 sounds and voices. But my BIG problem was that they used the same sound for different surfaces. 
 When climbing a wood ladder it sounded like i was climbing a Metal one. This coupled with several 
 turrets and such sounding the exact same the sound loses a remarkable 4 points. 6/10.
  
  -=-=-=-=-=
  Fun Factor:
  -=-=-=-=-=
  
  Now normaly I don't do sections as short as the 
 others have been but its because its all that needs to be said. Now the fun factor. Stopping time 
 and using a shotgun is fun. Now if physics taught us anything its that Area and force applied can 
 all be measured. When you stop time all Actions done on a character add up. Now a single shotgun 
 blast can't blow a enemy way but can knock him down. Now if you stop time and add up 8 Shells into 
 the same spot the momentum builds. When time resumes your enemy will fly. Also a interesting note 
 and somethign i was amazed with that they did was, If you freeze time and shoot a enemy in the 
 chest then walk around behind him and shoot him in the exact same spot with the exact same amount 
 of force the body will not fly. It will just shake and fall to the ground. Its this detail that 
 amazed me and had me giggling with anticipation to what else you can do on that regard. With the 
 ability to experiment with force and momentum and hae laughs doing so Timeshift earned a 10/10 
 in my heart.
  
  So to all you people who like First person shooters. If you want a game that can interest you for 
 a short period of time for one time through just rent it. If you can play a game over and over 
 again. Get this game its fun and a science lesson in its own. Good Luck with future gaming. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: colinisawesome
Rating: 4
Date: Apr 27, 2008 4:45 pm PT
Review:  Well lets see... I played this game at a friends house hoping that oh this might be kinda fun? 
 Well first he was sleeping and i was wide awake and so i sat there for at least 3 hours going, 
 Why the hell did this happen, whats my purpose? The Storyline was Basically designed by a 2 year 
 old with a mental condition that made him have no imagination. The good part of the game was it 
 was kinda fun going back in time or slowing it down but in about 20 minutes i was board... It could 
 have been that i was half asleep but i swear by the Game gods that this game came from the bowels 
 of the darkest pits of a Computer hell.
  UGH!!!! So what all of that money and time wasted on this... Shame on you Mr. Sierra Entertainment 
 SHAME!!!
  
  -Colin is out.
  
  Oh and another Thing Thing was the lighting was so Off that Realistic Graphics kinda got shot in 
 the face, and trust me it wasn't his Television... actually it could have been. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: scarface46
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 26, 2008 10:48 am PT
Review:  Based On Demo:
  Gameplay: 8
  Graphics: 8
  Sound: 7
  ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  TimeShift is a very interesting game that we have never seen before. I believe for the first time 
 in gaming history, you can stop, reverse, and slow down time whenever in need. Other than that, 
 TimeShift is a regular Sci-Fi first person shooter. There are tons of guns to use, including, shotguns, 
 assault rifles, and my favorite the crossbow, which explodes after hitting the enemy. Anyway, the 
 gameplay was fast and non-stop blasting. But in the start and throughout the game there was no 
 story presented, so it was hard to understand what was happening. From the objectives, it seemed 
 like my team was rebelling against another group, so that was an extremely big downfall. As for 
 the online mode, TimeShift is amazing; there are many servers, great maps, and enjoyable modes, 
 such as, capture the flag and deathmatch. Furthermore, the graphics look good, except for the blood. 
 When shot, the blood stains that splatter on the screen look amazing but when shooting others, 
 it looks like your using a paint ball gun. The audio, on the other hand, was good as well, not 
 really a lot of voice acting, as there were no cut scenes, but the gun fire and explosions sounded 
 great. Overall, TimeShift seems a little under appreciated, it may have no clear story, but having 
 the ability to stop, slow, or reverse time is a very fun and interesting idea. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryk1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 11, 2008 12:07 pm PT
Review:  I liked this game. I like games that give you an advantage at a price. The whole premise of this 
 game is: you're a scientist that escaped an explosion in this experimental time/war suit; you ended 
 up in an altered past and know have to right all the wrongs, blablabla. It doesn't really mater; 
 it's a cool though. As for the good, it looks great. The levels are detailed and destructive and 
 there is plenty of cover. The time shift graphics are cool, but I have noticed some graphic glitches 
 in some spots where there are a lot of things going on and you use the time shift effects. The 
 guns are fun and have a standard alt fire. You go through a lot of ammo in this game, but there 
 is a lot of it lying around the levels and the enemies that you kill leave a good amount as well. 
 
  
  The game isn't hard at all, it is after all a liner shooter (there isn't that much depth to any 
 of them) , but they through in some puzzles and some quirky stuff so that you can use the time shift 
 in other ways other than killing enemies. What I like about the game a lot is the use of the time 
 shift. I think it adds a dimension to the game that a lot of FPS don't have (it's the saving grace 
 of this game) . If used well, the time shift makes the game very fun to play. Say, when you get 
 down to like one guy, you stop time and run behind them and just wait to bust a cap in his ass 
 (like just as he turns around) . 
  
  All in all, there isn't anything special about this game, or the way it dose its thing, but what 
 makes the game is the time shift ability. It makes it fun and interesting while giving you a way 
 to change it up a little. Good game.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: mazman3434
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 24, 2008 3:43 pm PT
Review:  You need to give the game a little more credit. The ability to change time throughout the game 
 is cool where you can totally mess with your enemies. Though, the story line maynot be origional. 
 An evil scientist plots to take over the world and you need to stop him. Unlike F. E. A. R where you 
 slowly understand the plot part by part, in Timeshift all the in game movies make you go "What?" 
 and only in the end you understand. One feature I love about the game is how they threw the future 
 into the 1940's giving it a cool rustic look like the bad sci-fi movies. Its great looking at your 
 enemies who are on fire or when you are torn to pieces by a giant fan. Hearing that chopping noise 
 makes you cringe. The single-player campaign is overall very fun. On the otherhand, the muiltiplayer 
 feature is a little hard to work. I have a lot of issues when trying to connect to a game while 
 in COD4 its a snap. There seems to be a few glitches including lag. When I find a game I like, 
 it loads the map but fails to start the game. A few patches might fix that up but in the mean time 
 Mulitplayer definately is missing a few features and has issues. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kirby-fu-
Rating: 8
Date: Mar 20, 2008 7:09 pm PT
Review:  TimeShift is a fun game and is somewhat innovative with its time altering aspects which is very 
 fun to use in campaign and online mode. Most should look into buying this game.
  
  Graphics-
  The graphics in Timeshift are top notch with great textures and details. The frame 
 rate can skip out a little sometimes mainly on online mode. Most of the time they move really well
 
  
  Gameplay-
  Gameplay is most the same as other first person shooters like COD4 or Halo but is different in 
 the way that you can stop, rewind, or slow down time. It is really fun to stop enemies, shoot them, 
 then return time to normal and watch them fall down with blood exploding from there chests. hilarious.
 
  
  Online-
  Online play is fun and exciting. Its mostly the same as most first person shooters again but with 
 the difference of time altering "grenades". You can toss a slow time "grenade" and shoot up your 
 enemy then, again, watch him blow up when the time resumes as normal. The frame rate can get sketchy 
 at times but is mostly all good.
  
  Overall this game is fun and simply innovative and is worth your time, no doubt about it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MrYates808
Rating: 3.5
Date: Mar 10, 2008 3:01 pm PT
Review:  Talk about a re-tread to say the least. This is a perfect example of developers just pushing out 
 titles to meet there quota. Shame on everyone involved in this one. If you played a FPS then you 
 played Timeshift. A game that offers nothing new and some lame visuals to say the least. The only 
 good thing about this game is that it can be returned for 5bucks. I was shocked that they would 
 even take it. Yeah so its not the worst FPS ever but on the PS3 it is. At least outta the shooters 
 I have played. Its story is very weak and the guns are just a joke. If you got scammed into this 
 one, I apolgize, now return it..... Its truly a game that was done by lazy individuals with no 
 innovativeness whatsoever. Do yourself a favor and don't waste your time as I did, COD 4 is out 
 there or pick up resistance for SCIFI shooter.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: amckibben
Rating: 4.5
Date: Feb 29, 2008 7:13 pm PT
Review:  I wasn't expecting an amazing game when I played this, but I bought it thinking i would give it 
 a chance and I was wrong. I don't know exactly what it is that makes this game bad but it just 
 has that "feel" to it. 
  There is no story whatsoever, some jazz about these two suits that can travel through time and 
 an evil scientist got his hands on one, which leaves the other one for you to stop him with...... ok
 
  the graphics are ok, but nothing special, especially with shooters like COD4 out there. Everything 
 seems kind of generic because all the enemies look identical and it feels like the same levels 
 over and over and over again, and none of them really stood out.
  The abilities to timeshift , which is the basis of the game, were pretty disappointing too. You 
 can only perform the certain control such as rewind when the game allows and it seems like they 
 put certain situations into the game just so that you can use these controls, and it didn't seem 
 natural to me.
  Don't even start me talking about the multiplayer..... it is also terrible. With so many other online 
 games being set up so nice, i can't even imagine playing this game online even if it was fun, which 
 it's not. There are like 7 people playing online in one or two rooms.
  Bottom line, don't waste your time with this game, the worst shooter i have played in a while.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: omgimonfire13
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 17, 2008 8:22 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift. How long have they been making this game again? I forgot. 4 years was it? Whatever, 
 it's not like that's important. So, after playing the demo, I could honestly say I was pumped for 
 Timeshift. It had everything a FPS needed. Things to shoot, things that go boom, a few cool weapons 
 and some gimmick that could make or break a game. So the game starts with a kick-ass opening FMV 
 that shows. Uhhh I'm not sure. Of what I could guess: Some building exploded, Dr. Krone stole 
 the Alpha suit and knocked some woman out and some black guy exploded. (ZOMG Racism!) You then 
 proceeded to fly through a window and through some pretty neon lights. Right what just happened? 
 
  
  So here comes the biggest flaw of the game: The story. Where the hell is it? With the exception 
 of Capt. Cooke and Dr. Krone, no ones names are given. So unless you check the concept art, you 
 would never know that the black guy who exploded name was Nathan Tucker. And you would never know 
 the girl, who you spend the whole game trying to save, name is [Insert really long Russian name 
 that I can't remember here.] And the hero? He's just the "Beta Suit Dude." 
  
  Bad story aside, the game is really fun. After you get past the first level, you get your time 
 powers. You can slow, stop and reverse time. Slowing and Stopping time is needed if you ever want 
 to get through the game. Reversing feels a little tacked on, and is only used to get grenades off 
 you and to solve some rare puzzles. (And by puzzles, I usually mean "hit one switch, stop time, 
 hit other switch.") So, by using your uber god like powers, you can do uber god like things. Like 
 walk on water! (The church will have a field day with this one.) The time powers are mostly used 
 in combat. Sometimes you will need them to pass through certain areas. For example: to get through 
 the fire, you need to stop time and walk through it. How badass.
  
  In Timeshift, you will need to use the time powers. There is just no chance that you will ever 
 get through the game without them. I'm serious. Go try. You won't though. The combat is just plain 
 fun. The enemies are really smart. They will chase you if you are wounded, take cover if they are 
 being shot at and play there roll well. For example: the workers and non-soldiers are usually only 
 armed with pistols and are really not willing to get into combat. On the other hand: the shielded 
 soldiers are armed with flame throwers and, thinking that they are invincible, will charge into 
 combat like there's no tomorrow. And the weapons are really cool. Although the game could win the 
 "Worst pistol of the year" award, the other guns are all great. The crossbow that makes people 
 explode, and the machine gun that shoots flaming bullets AND doubles as a flame thrower are some 
 of my favorites. 
  
  Sadly, the game starts to fall into a repetitive phase. No, you have not visited that factory before. 
 Although it will feel like you have. Yes, you have solved that same puzzle about 10 times. Yes, 
 you have killed 500 of the Krone Army. Here's 500 more. There is an occasional on-rail shooting 
 segment where you will take control of a turret on a giant blimp-thing, but they are short and 
 more of a bother then anything. There is also a time when you will take control of an ATV. Although 
 fun, the first person driving view is a pain in the ass to work with. Also, the game seems to be 
 prone to its fair share of glitches. More then once I've seen a floating box, or an enemy get stuck 
 inside something.
  
  The graphics are ok. The FMV looked great, and so do some of the effects. The rain and explosions 
 stand out as some of the best. Some of the textures look bland, and the rebels have some of the 
 worst design ever. Most of them look more like useless morons (Which, for the most part, they are.) 
 The music is also in the realm of "ok." Some of the music is really cool, while on the other hand 
 some makes you want to mute the TV.
  
  Overall, Timeshift is a fun game. For a while, the game will keep you entertained and is definitely 
 worth a rental. I give Timeshift a 3... Out of five!
  
  wait a minute! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AceDonald
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 12, 2008 6:23 pm PT
Review:  The TImeShift demo showed off some potential TImeSHift could have had. Its tight enviornment made 
 the weapons provided work very well. But the game itself doesn't quite manage as hopeful as expected. 
 TimeShift looks good, thats something good. Also, there are some pretty good weapons to use, such 
 as that electricity grenade that sticks to them and tears them to shreds. And there will always 
 be a place in my heart for killing people by pausing time, shooting them, then watching there once 
 live bodies fall to the ground. But other than that, TimeShift doesn't work out that well. Some 
 gun aim points are very indirect, even close range which could cause you die a lot. Plus, it is 
 pretty derivitave of other games. TimeShift may have level variety, but they seem out of place. 
 One minute im in a gloomy city and then BAM! im in the bright beautiful mountains. Not to mention 
 the fact that some people you kill seem to die but actually just got away from the aim thing so 
 you think the no red circle in the center means their dead. I enjoyed TimeShift's time bending 
 abilities, but everything else i have done before in other games. Rentings a good idea for those 
 looking for an experience they've somewhat had before, without paying much. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MadNomad
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 9, 2008 4:39 pm PT
Review:  This game caught me with the first level and kept going from there. I have enjoyed using the time 
 abilities and they add a welcome twist to the game. So far I have found the scenarios enjoyable, 
 even if somewhat standard fair. This game is worth a buy to add to your playables list. It delivers 
 what it promises and provides enough enjoyment to keep me coming back for the next level. After 
 the disappointments of Lair and Black Site this game has done what it set out to do providing solid 
 entertainment and I haven't encountered any bugs so far.
  
  There are some disappointments, occasionally enemies will drop onto the screen or move into it 
 and not fire are you, making it more of a shooting gallery than an FPS. Collision detection is 
 a little shaky and on one level I got stuck near a wall. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JONbonSMITH
Rating: 8
Date: Feb 3, 2008 5:03 pm PT
Review:  Keeping it simple and to the point..
  
  The Good: One of my favorite parts about this game was the cartoonish gore, if shooting doesn't 
 satisfy enough, then blowing your enemies to pieces with energy rifles and grenades very well may. 
 *note: great if you want to introduce small children to what weapons can really do*. Another plus 
 is the weapons themselves, very fun to shoot and there is a great array, in general they are the 
 same guns as usual (rocket lauchers/pistols/ect.) but they are original in design, they look nothing 
 like your run of the mill guns. There have been many games before that have been able to "slow" 
 to make shooting the badies easier, but Timeshift brings a new level to it and essentially the 
 whole story revolves around it, with the beta suit you can slow, fast-forward, or completely pause 
 time so you can achieve your goals, all the while being able to strip enemies of their weapons. 
 The visuals were really enjoyable also, a tad bit repetitive, but still. One of the more underappreciated 
 topics is the story. Time travel itself and what it can do is very confusing and Timeshift was 
 trying to bring that concept to the table by creating a transparent story. I still a little confused 
 about what went on. One of the greater parts is the multiplayer, there aren't very many people 
 on, but it's incredibly fun, and very customizable. Do I think this game deserved a 6.5nodid 
 it deserve a 6.5no 
  I had a lot of fun with this game, so don't always listen to "them", find out for yourself.
  
 
  The Bad:
  Before I played this game I heard good things about the AI, I only finished on casual and I really 
 wasn't impressed, I also wasn't to happy about the length of the campaign, it was still really 
 good, but a little more is always better. The enemies are all pretty much the same (maybe they 
 are clones) , but that aside, you usually blow them up anyway so it doesn't matter. 
  
  As a human being I give it an 8
  As a critic I give it a 7
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Outer_Raven
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 3, 2008 11:38 am PT
Review:  Ok, ok, this game compared with COD4 sucks in terms of graphics and variety, but it's not as bad 
 as gamespot says.
  Sure most of the time you're shooting bad guys and watching their heads flying, but it still has 
 some variety. For example, there's a part in the game where you ride a quad bike (atv) through 
 the mountains, and some times you have to use your time shifting powers to get out of sticky situations, 
 or to do things that normally require two people to do. Plus, combining your time powers with the 
 amazing variety of weapons, from missile launchers to flamethrowers, you can bring down an entire 
 fortress down all by yourself.
  So maybe when you look at Time Shift for the first time you'll think that it's just another fps 
 with time powers, but remember, it's the inside that counts.
  "Master time to become the ultimate weapon"! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Ashwyn16
Rating: 7
Date: Feb 2, 2008 5:35 pm PT
Review:  Ok first off playing this game wasnt pretty, and it was the longest time ive spen playing a game 
 that i have reviewed yet ( with execption of COD 4 multiplayer obviously) . 
  
  im also going to do a type of Gamespot indepth review with a sypnosis of the game at the end like 
 the good and the bad but im adding another catogory to it '' The Ugly ''.
  
  so Timeshift .... is a game that ironically like alot of people have been saying '' Needed more 
 time in development '' 
  
  Story:
  
  The story in Timeshift in my opinion is unique..
  
  Scientists from the near-future have begun 
 work on creating a viable time machine. The project results in the creation of two devices, the 
 Alpha Suit, a less advanced prototype jump suit, and the Beta Suit, a more advanced, so-called 
 military grade model with features the Alpha Suit lacks such as combat-related timeshifting abilities 
 and an integrated AI designed to prevent the creation of paradoxes.
  
  The director of the project, Doctor Aiden Krone, takes the Alpha Suit and travels into the past. 
 Once there he alters the timeline, placing himself as the ruler of the Krone Magistrate that controls 
 a dystopic world.
  
  The protagonist, a fellow scientist who's name is never spoken (never mentioned in-game or in manual 
 becuase the games developers wanted you to feel as if you were him) , then takes the Beta Suit and 
 follows Dr. Krone back to the year 1939 to a place called Alpha District. He then proceeds to assist 
 the Occupant Rebellion against Dr. Krone.
  
  The reason why this story is so Unique it becuase its so poorly told as through out the game ( 
 End of levels or beggining of them ) little 5 second cutscenes appear and dissapear just like that 
 and to top it all off at the beggining of the game it doesnt explain anything and the ending to 
 the game is rediculas, so if anyone is looking for anything past '' shoot people until they die 
 and walk around '' then go play anything else...
  
  
  Controls:
  
  For the most part of this game the controls are fine just like any other FPS, although i did find 
 it sort of odd that the layout of the shoot button was R2, instead of the usual R1 for most games 
 but it didnt lessen anything so it doesnt really matter. 
  
  Also the controls for the actual Time Shifting abilities work well supprissingly as there nice 
 and simple to pull off however it might take you a few time to remember slow time is square and 
 stop time is triangle and reverse time is circle. 
  
  I guess the only main problem i had with the controls is missed in with an aspect of gameplay which 
 is that when you stop time you can steal enemy's weapons by hold the square button and i found 
 some times even though i was holding the button down nothing happened so u might wanna watch out 
 for that.
  
  
  Game Play:
  
  The unique feature of TimeShift is that you are able to control time: stopping, rewinding, or slowing 
 it down more or less at will, similar to the Prince of Persia series which kicked serious ass ( 
 Reason i brought timeshift, becuase i knew Prince of persia had great time abilites ao i thought 
 this game might also have them ) . 
  
  Unlike in the Prince of Persia game, the player is not affected by their time manipulations. This 
 allows a player to stop time in order to dodge an incoming bullets, Rockets or steal an enemy's 
 weapon.
  
  Specific time-related puzzles also require these abilities E. G. Activating a lift Lever and stopping 
 time to get in the lift before it rises. The main difference between the two games is death: while 
 the player can reverse their own death in the Prince of Persia series, the same is not true here 
 ( which kind of sucks because i died alot playing this game ) .
  
  The main problem i had with the gameplay was there was only a limited viraity of places where you 
 fought enemy's and it would mostly be in rainy dull conditions and the fact that it was pretty 
 repeatitive..
  
  Graphics:
  
  Ad you may know this game was delayed for a while and was originally ment to come out for the original 
 Xbox as an exclusive, but around mid 2005 the developers of this games found out that the xbox 
 360 was going to released only a few months into the future so they decided to make the game next 
 Gen on the xbox 360 and PS3.... and the real reason it didnt come out at 360 launch was because 
 the core graphics were xbox quality instead of next Gen.. ( History lesson for you ) 
  
  So anyway as Far as i can see the graphics are no Mass effect or no uncharted but they look pretty 
 Next Gen thanks to obvious Shadding technonlogy and Great character models, i would even say the 
 in game graphics are better than the cut scenes but that isnt saying much as the frame rate for 
 me was around 30 FPS instead of the usual 60 for most PS3 games.
  
  Also there was Great detail in the blood of the enemys you shoot as if you shoot one in the head 
 there will be red blood but also pink goo like blown apart brains and also if u shoot people by 
 close there blood will go on your screen which looks really cool ( Especially in HD ) . 
  
  The main problem i had with the graphics were the textures of the places you were which e. g. walls 
 ect becuase although you could shoot alot of the walls apart they all looked the same.
  
  A. I.:
  
  Upon seeing a group of enemies, I'd pause time, run up to them with the shotgun, blast 
 them, then unpause time to watch them fall. If anyone survived, I just ran back to safety and let 
 the time gauge refill. This is one of those games that is as hard as you want it to be, and it's 
 hard not to play cheap. Thankfully, the enemy AI will put up quite a fight, so it's not like you 
 can quickly run and gun your way through, and this is due to the fact that if the enemy spot you 
 and there alone they will mostl likely call out for back up.
  
  This add's alot of fun to the fan as you'll beable to experiement with the time powers that you 
 have at your disposal.
  Also like i said earlier if you stop time take there weapon and un pause time the enemy A. I will 
 try to beg for mercy and if you actually walk away from him he will them call for back up or pick 
 up a dead allies weapon.. so props to the A. I programmer.
  
  And the main problem i had with the A. I was the fact that alot of them looked the same which added 
 to the repeatitiveness of the game.
  
  Viraity of Weapons and vehicles:
  
  Through out the Game you'll experience shooting alot of unique weapons, some may look familiar 
 like the sniper or the rifle but then the game add's some guns like the surge gun, a flame bullet 
 type gun, and a nifty little laser hand gun. 
  
  As well as the weapons you get to use gun turrets and drive quad bike however the driving sequences 
 are seriously clunky and there is a serious lack of these sequences which it good and the bad as 
 when your in one your happy becuase theres no more repeatitve shooting or sloving simple puzzles.
 
  
  Multi-Player:
  
  Apart from Timeshift's Rather long single player, A Online option is available with up to 16 players 
 in which changes timeshifting in certain ways as instead of pressing a button and stopping time 
 for a limited time you must use time grenades which explode and create time bubbles. Walking through 
 one of these time bubble will result in certain effects taking place for example, of you lay down 
 a slow time grenade and your opponent is hit with it they will slow to a crawl or if you hit then 
 they will stop all together.
  
  Of course you get your usual Team-Deathmatch, Deathmatch and Team captue the flag but there also 
 one shot one kill, Slow to kill and athlete. 
  
  Now the only problem i had with this multiplayer was the fact that its seemingly hard to connect 
 to servers on the PS3 version and the loading time are stupid. 
  
  In conclusion Timeshift untilizes many feature that should have been thought of sooner as there 
 so simple but fails to improve on its played out FPS genre. 
  
  The Good:
  
  Nice use of time Abilites 
  Viraity of good weapons
  Large online maps 
  
  The Bad:
  
 
  easily Repeatitive
  Perhaps too long
  
  The Ugly:
  
  Loading time is bad 
  Online connections are terrible
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: budboarder
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 25, 2008 1:28 am PT
Review:  I really enjoyed the gameplay. The Havok engine is a good one and makes for an enjoyable game. 
 I was really disappointed in the story, they could have done so much with this and they just sorta, 
 scraped by. Too much imagination left to the user. I hope they make another and use a few more 
 videos between levels. The game was fairly average length for a FPS. I think i beat it in around 
 8 or 10 hours. The replay value is fairly low, due to a sheisty set of unlockables. There should 
 be more weapons, less ammo, and more main characters whose names you actually know. I have said 
 alot of negative things about this game but in reality, i loved playing it. I kept wanting to learn 
 more about the story and what the hell was going on. But if you like FPS, bottom line is get this 
 game, but the online community is a little lame. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tofudan
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 24, 2008 11:58 am PT
Review:  i should have known better... but given the time control features of the game i was hoping for some 
 sort of first person sci-fi max payne. whereas the bullet-time in max payne was a joy to use, the 
 time shifting in timeshift (way to be creative with the name, by the way) is a chore. the game 
 requires that you use these powers frequently to progress... but it's never really any fun.
  
  the visually stunning opening cinematic gave me hope that the narrative would be interesting, 
 surprising, make me want to get through the rough paches of the gameplay... but it goes absolutely 
 nowhere almost immediately. i don't care how many things and (supposedly interesting) ways to shoot 
 i'm provided with... i still need a compelling reason to do it. i'm sooooo tired of paper-thin story 
 lines and terrible writing. for new games to really be 'next-gen' they need to concentrate on immersion 
 as much as (if not more than) eye-candy.
  
  if you buy or rent this game... prepare to be bored. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Taoninja
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 17, 2008 2:05 am PT
Review:  Here is a classic case where reviewers beat up on something that deserves more than it is given. 
 TimeShift is definitely one of those under appreciated games on the market today. It is action 
 packed and full of stunning visuals that shouldn't be missed; even if you don't purchase the game 
 you should at least rent it because it will grow on you.
  
  I can agree (somewhat) with what people are saying about the storyline. For me it is not a bad 
 story, the problem is how it is delivered, it is a bit unclear at times. However I don't think 
 the developers were focused on winning an Oscar and making you tear from a tragic love plot, or 
 feel like some hero who once again saves the planet. The focus here is where the title of the game 
 comes in. Utilize your ability to shift time and show off the many different ways you can annihilate 
 your foes through some great level designs. 
  
  Today certain games are missing that wholesome feeling you get when you enjoy its action and strategic 
 capability; TimeShift delivers that wholesome feel I grew up on with games. The days when it wasn't 
 so much about the story, but how much butt you whooped through course of the game. The way you 
 control time is pretty much awesome and makes for hours of fun. Slow time down, freeze it, or rewind 
 it. What is better than freezing time, putting a grenade on your enemies head, then unfreezing 
 the time to watch him blow up as his friends watch and clearly state their confusion. To add to 
 the chaos you can rewind it and watch his organs pull back together, then take him out with a simple 
 shotgun blast to the head or whatever else you can think of with your arsenal. Overkill!
  
  There are some frame rate issues at times, but not enough to be a problem. The multiplayer is a 
 lot of fun as well, very creative and addictive when you get things down packed. Overall, don't 
 let the reviews fool you. There is nothing wrong with a First Person Shooter driven by a strong 
 engine and some creative death dealing that is to be dealt by gamers who love to show of their 
 skills. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BenderUnit22
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 21, 2008 3:09 am PT
Review:  TimeShift is a perfect example of publishers pushing an unfinished game onto the market in time 
 for the holiday season. While the result is by no means disastrous, there's no doubt the game could 
 have been significantly better.
  
  The story goes that at some point in the future, a secret science facility invents a suit that 
 protects its wearer from the side-effects of time travel, i. e. being squished into a singularity 
 by gravitational forces. Of course, one power-hungry jerk in your team can't resist temptation 
 and steals the suit to travel back in time to achieve world domination but just before your reality 
 collapses, you manage to get into the second suit and follow him into the past in an attempt to 
 stop him.
  
  Or at least that's what happened if you want to believe the manual, the actual plot barely figures 
 into the game at all and without that back story, you're basically oblivious as to who you are, 
 where you are and why you are there. The complete lack of a story figuring into the game is without 
 a doubt its biggest problem as it kills any atmosphere the developers try to create and what good 
 is saving the world when you could care less if it was destroyed after all.
  
  Gameplay-wise TimeShift closely follows the blue print laid out by the Half-Life series, without 
 ever achieving its excellence though. The level design while utterly linear is quite diverse and 
 sends you through a variety of environments from war-torn, urban cities to facility complexes and 
 more open-ended, natural environments. To cover ground faster in some of the wider areas, you'll 
 be given a small buggy as well, however it doesn't control quite as well as you'd want to.
  
  What seemingly stands out about the game is that your fancy suit lets you manipulate time at 
 your will as long as its energy level is not depleted and while games like Max Payne and F. E. A. R. 
 certainly have done this to death by now, TimeShift tries to mix it up with the ability to not 
 only slow down time but stop it completely or even reverse it. In reality however, you'll use the 
 latter two mostly for some of the puzzles which mostly fall into the pattern of halting time to 
 press two switches at once or crossing a pathway of otherwise moving platforms. The shooting doesn't 
 feel that much different from other games of this type as you'll quickly revert into a routine 
 of finding cover, slowing down time, popping up to take a few guys out and jumping back into cover. 
 This is especially true after you find the crossbow, which kills every grunt enemy with only one 
 shot and is easy to handle thanks to your time-manipulating abilities.
  
  That said, the actual gameplay is certainly fun, the enemy A. I. is challenging enough (if you didn't 
 have that crossbow that is) or at least knows how to point a gun at you and the level design, while 
 monotonous at times, is interesting overall. Again, the main problem is the constant irritation 
 the game creates by not giving you any background as to why you're doing what you're doing, but 
 it's possible to look past these problems and treat TimeShift more like an old Quake game.
  
  The story campaign clocks in at a sizeable 9-12 hours to finish and will leave people who managed 
 to care about the underdeveloped and flat characters with a bit of a cliffhanger, opening the possibility 
 for a sequel. Additionally, the game features multi player for up to 16 combatants with standard 
 modes like deathmatch and capture the flag as well as the unique meltdown madness in which players 
 have to throw chrono-grenades at the enemy team's machine to slow down its countdown. Upon impact, 
 Chrono-grenades create a small sphere which will trap players in time, making them easy targets. 
 All in all, the multi player is quite fun, but the back-end is lacking severely compared to its 
 competitors like Call of Duty 4, Unreal Tournament 3 and Team Fortress 2.
  
  The presentation is a mixed bag, to say the least. The graphics, while somewhat derivative and 
 a mix of Half-Life 2 and Doom 3, are quite nice actually and there are some neat features the developers 
 manage to get out of the third UnrealEngine. Most of the textures are crisp even close up, the 
 draw distance for the more open levels is impressive and the game features some great particle 
 and rain effects and explosions. Some of the environment is even dynamically deformable and will 
 let everyone know where a heavy gun-fight has taken place. Character-animation is rather stiff 
 however and the game's cut scenes using the game engine are utterly lifeless and lack a whole lot 
 of polish. You'll also encounter a few instances of texture pop-ins and flickering as well as clipping 
 issues and screen tearing.
  
  The sound design is not up to par with current standards however. Sound effects from weapons, environments 
 as well as the voice acting is underwhelming and boring, which coincides with the lackluster dialogue, 
 and the mixing is inconsistent, making conversations hard to understand in fire fights (which, 
 while somewhat realistic, doesn't help gameplay at all) . In the same vein, the musical score is 
 just as unimpressive and forgettable, rarely adding anything to the already hardly present atmosphere.
 
  
  As it stands, TimeShift is a matter of missed opportunity. The game had potential to become a surprise 
 hit if it was given a few more months or even just weeks to flesh out the story and iron out presentational 
 quirks. Instead we got a competent but derivative shooter with an unmemorable story mode and multi 
 player that just isn't up to standard any more. It's enjoyable while it lasts, but don't expect 
 it to stick with you any longer than that. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dark_atlantican
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 5, 2008 12:44 am PT
Review:  Timeshift is an original first person shooter, but by adding the ability to manipulate time by 
 the touch of a button has made this game one worth playing.
  
  Timeshift isn't the best PS3 game when it comes to graphics, but the sound quality of the game 
 is very good.
  
  Timeshift's single player is fun (as soon as you get your time manipulation abilities) , the timeshifting 
 abilities you gain can be used in a variety of ways, you can: reverse time to escape a threat, 
 freeze time to kill an enemy or steal their weapon, slow down time to gain some extra agility to 
 use in combat, etc....... The plot in single player is a alright one (although at time's i think 
 it moves too fast to understand) .
  
  Online Timeshift is sorta like Halo, except you have time abilities. To use a time manipulation 
 technique online; first you must choose your ability, then when you want to use it, press the correct 
 button ("L1" for PS3) , your character will then throw a grenade in the direction your facing, and 
 the grenade will create a large orb, if another player walks into or is hit by this orb; the time 
 ability used will come into effect against that player, giving you the advantage (the orb will 
 last for about 10-20secs) . Online Timeshift is very fast, by that i mean; players move and shoot 
 fast, so don't let your guard down!!
  
  Overall i would say that: Timeshift isn't worth buying unless you like your first person shooters 
 alot or have some spare cash you want to get rid of (but who has that these days?) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: fallen_saint
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 3, 2008 10:13 pm PT
Review:  When I first heard news of the game, I was very excited to play a shooter that allowed you to manipulate 
 time. After the demo release it drew me even more, but when it actually came out it fell short 
 of my expectations. While the features of pause, slowmo, rewind can be fun to use when shooting 
 down hordes of enemies you come to realize that you can actually play most of it without having 
 to use the timepowers once, with the exception of when you're stuck in corner during battle. If 
 you're going to base a game, regardless of genre of the game, developers and publishers need to 
 see what they can acutally build around such abilities, instead of "hey this guy can slow down 
 time and take out his enemies without a problem". yeah that can be fun for awhile but then it just 
 takes out a lot of fun for the game. For me, I wish that they made the game a bit more involved 
 for me to play.... single player wise
  
  Multiplayer wise, its very fresh for a shooter. Though its like any other shooter on the market, 
 the time grenades of fore mentioned abilities, makes players think out battle plans while playing. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bobison
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 2, 2008 9:37 pm PT
Review:  First of all, I will say that I personally think this is a great game. I have more fun playing 
 this than Halo 3, Call of Duty 4, Bioshock etc... The game starts out normal like any other FPS 
 would. You slowly start to encounter enemies as the game progresses and you start to meet some 
 of your allies. At some point though the game stops and you time suit starts having issues. It 
 then brings you back in time were you are then given your time altering abilities. 
  
  One is to slow down time, one to stop time, and one to reverse time. You will probably slow down 
 time the most often, and barely ever use time reverse. Time stop is probably the most interesting 
 as you can go up to your enimies and steal their weapon. Once time has started again, they will 
 try to surrender, but don't be fooled, they will eventually look for another weapon. The timeshifting 
 abilities in this game are put together well and make the game interesting, fun, and original, 
 qualities that most FPS lacked in 2007. 
  
  The gameplay overall in this game is great, as well as the graphics. The only thing so far that 
 is dissapointing about this game is the online multiplayer. I can find games to join but sometimes 
 it won't let me join or my PS3 freezes while connecting. The games I have joined were fun though. 
 
  
  I personally think that this is one of the most underrated games of all time. It angers me when 
 I see reviewers for this game give it a bad score because it is "not original". Give me a break, 
 the timeshifting abilities in this game make it very original. Like x-play, which gave Timeshift 
 a 2/5 because it wasn't original even though they said the game has solid gameplay. 
  
  I think alot of FPS in 2007 got good reviews because of the well known names. I have played Halo 
 3, COD4, and Bioshock, and do not care for any of them. Halo 3's online is horrible, it only chooses 
 from four levels. COD4 brought nothing new to the FPS genre, didn't have good graphics, and wasn't 
 fun to play. I think the only reason people buy COD4 is for it's multiplayer. Bioshock, I don't 
 know what to say, I played the demo for this game and could not play it for longer than five minutes, 
 Bioshock is so overrated. 
  
  I think the reason people are staying away from Timeshift is because they have never heard of it. 
 They read the reviews on gamespot and ign, and then automatically think that there true. This game 
 almost got cancelled and I heard that it has been in development for about 5 years now. I think 
 it's sad that great games like this get overlooked just because they don't have a commercial name. 
 Anyways, if you like FPS then at least try this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: CC-ledges1
Rating: 5.5
Date: Dec 18, 2007 12:49 pm PT
Review:  There really is nothing new or ground-breaking I can say about "TimeShift". All the users here 
 on GameSpot seem to think that TimeShift is one the culture classics like Halo or Ratchet and Clank, 
 and, all I can say is about TimeShift, even a sequel of this game would never reach such high standars 
 that Halo and Ratchet and Clank have to the potential to create. The biggest problem of TimeShift, 
 is that it's nothing new in any considered game genre.
  
  TimeShift allows you to play the classic shooter gameplay, as well as being able to stop or reverse 
 time. Yeah, shooting and time stopping and reversing are in pretty much every game you can think 
 about, yeah, sure they have never been together before, but the fact is, the game does not any 
 different to how they play with the game.
  
  I will publically admit this, the time-stopping and reversing effect will use it, is very nice 
 in the graphics display, and the plot is expansive enough to create further games, and the plot 
 is actually quite dark, mysterious and interesting. Still, the major flaw is the lack of orginality 
 in the gameplay. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: duxy33
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 14, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  I was thinking this game would be a fun FPS to enjoy in anticipation for the big releases, but 
 the experience didn't satisfy me. The idea of slowing, pausing and reversing time takes a different 
 approach to the concept of FPS games, but after a while it's just a method to get around your enemies 
 easier. But you can have fun using this being creative.
  
  When you first play this game it starts off slow but eventually picks up when you're introduced 
 to new weapons and enemies. Though you will struggle when encountering a wide range of enemies 
 at once and this is where the time manipulation comes in handy. The only frustrating thing when 
 using the time function is that sometimes you'll feel the time limit is not long enough, and then 
 you will have to look for cover before you get punished. Playing on the easiest setting can be 
 a challenge might I add. Single player version is plain, as it doesn't give you the feeling of 
 a great FPS. The story lacks depth as well. Multiplayer you can have fun with but nothing special 
 either. Though unless you love FPS games, I would suggest saving your money for something better. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rickyzan
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 11, 2008 6:32 pm PT
Review:  they better rate this game at least 8.5-10.0. its just plain fun and its revolutionary!!!! I don't 
 know, probably, half of your editors is missing in action. Or too busy playing games. But I cannot 
 understand why do you give such ridiculous ratings to actually good games. why would they rate 
 it 6.5 on the other consoles? its preety dumb. well the games is really good but theres 1 thing 
 thats a bit down, its when u clime the ladder is looks like ur just levetating up. thats the only 
 con that i see, But hell, it's fun to play. Timeshift game mechanics are kinda unique, not just 
 slow-mo, and it's actually USED throughout the game to solve puzzles, though firefights and ability 
 to steal weapons using timestop are cool, too. the rest of the game is pure fun and the time stopping, 
 slowing and reverse is just great. i recon that they hav made this game so well and like i said, 
 gamespot better rate this game 8.5-10.0. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: nick2320
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 10, 2007 7:26 pm PT
Review:  nice game it is fun and all but the multiplayer on the demmo was awsome anyone that likes good 
 online action should try this game. Just download it from the playstation store. !!! !!! !!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!! !!!! !! !!!! !! !!! !!!!!! !!!! !! !!!!! !!!! !!! !!! !!!!!! !!! !!!! !!! !!! !!!! !!!!! 
 !!! !!!!! !!! !!! !! ! !!! !!! !! !! !!! !!!!!!!!!! !!!!!! !!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!! !!!!! !!!!! 
 !!!! !! !!! !!! !!!!! !!! !!!! !! !!! !!!! !!!!!!! !!!! ! !!! !!!! !! !!!!! !! !!!!! !! !!!! !!!!! 
 !!!!! !!!! !! !!!!! !!!11 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 00Raziel00
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 6:34 pm PT
Review:  Timeshift
  Timeshift is a interesting game thats for sure the time controlling abitlitys make the game very 
 fun and also makes it unquie to other first person shooters. The gameplay for Timeshift is decent 
 little repetitive, at some parts with constant solider killing but time shifting abilitys keep it 
 just right
  Guns are cool all different with a secondary fire button like RFoM. Controls are tight good all 
 round. The only thing i hated about it was the story, there is serious almost no story in this 
 game and presents it very badly. If they made a better story i think this game could have been 
 one of the best games this year. Besides the story being bad Timeshift is a game for people that 
 want a fun different first person shooter from the rest but will still be ok if it doesnt have 
 a story. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bigilmyster
Rating: 8
Date: Dec 9, 2007 8:53 am PT
Review:  my opinon its an awesome game, hours of campaign which i love in a game, the ability to stop, slow 
 down, rewind time is a great feature, comes in handy alot in gameplay, the graphics are good but not 
 great they could have been better, also the assortment of weapons are great and fun to use, the ai 
 of enemy is really well done you cant just rush in there and start blasting ,you have to use strategy 
 and your time abilitys to make it through, the only thing i do not like is there hardly any bosses 
 besides that and the graphics its a must have for fps fanes 
::::::

::::::
UserName: peepop
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 5:30 pm PT
Review:  I used to own a 360 and i bought this game. I loved it. Then my 360 died and it is the only game 
 I bought when I went out and got my PS3. I owned COD4 and didn't bother with that when I got my 
 PS3. TimeShift tries really hard to do something different and it really succeeds. The time controls 
 are smoothly implemented and the AI is rock solid, especially given that you can mess with their 
 mental states by using time control. The visuals range from solid to stunning and the soundtrack 
 is really good. I have heard some gripes about puzzles being relatively simple, but that misses 
 the point of this game - its about COMBAT and it does it well. The shooting feel is phenomenal 
 and it runs smoothly.
  
  The MP is also outstanding. It is so different from COD4 that its not even worth comparing. It 
 is fast, arcade-style with the cool time grenades and the time shield to get yourself out of time 
 bubbles that you are trapped in.
  
  Overall this game is great, it is the best I have played on the console and that is why I am giving 
 it a 10 because while not perfect, the fun factor is 10 and that is why we buy games! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: karimbus
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 28, 2007 1:41 pm PT
Review:  This game is fantastic. The weapons are awesome, the AI is way better than in COD4 and the time 
 controls are simply fun. Once you master the timeshifting, the game takes it to a whole new level. 
 The multiplayer is even better. I recommend this game to anyone looking for a fun shooter that 
 is heavy on outstanding combat and not super story-intensive. This game is really a hidden gem. 
 Give it a chance - if you rent you will likely buy - especially if you are into Quake-speed multiplayer. 
 For the PS3 it is phenomenal.
  
  People forget that games are about fun first - this game is super fun and worth the money. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cubelover38
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 24, 2007 12:09 pm PT
Review:  let me start by saying that first person shooters genre is a tired one and when something like 
 timeshift comes along it just makes you forget that. from the minute you receive your time altering 
 abilities you, ll know what i, m talking about the game lets you do what ever you want and you'd 
 be amazed at some of the things you can pull off you can run right into a pile of enemies and walk 
 out without a scratch just by pausing or slowing down time i'm sure there are so many ways to deal 
 with situations that it envokes replay value in just the single player game. the graphics are very 
 good ,smoke, particle, fire and the whole time control all look very good although freezing and slowing 
 time when it's raining can make it difficult to see but thats because the rain is so well done 
 the sound is also good it slows and stops accordingly, and you here distant battles going on. i 
 absolutely loved the experience i had with timeshift and i am not a avid fps fan but this is a 
 great package that maybe overlooked this holiday season. i did not try out the online multiplayer 
 as of writing this but from what i've read it is equally robust 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
