-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: TNA iMPACT!
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/tnaimpact/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Attacks land with invigorating force.
 Simple control scheme, varied move set.
 Animations often look great.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Technical flaws can spoil matches.
 Graphical glitches are common.
 Story mode doesn't capture personalities of TNA stars.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Sep 10, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 6.3, 21 Review (s)
User Score: 6.6, 194 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Midway
Developer: Midway Studios LA
Genre: Wrestling
Date: Sep 9, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
It's no heavyweight champion, but this brawler still packs a satisfying punch. 

  Professional wrestling has long been maligned and celebrated as a place where spandex-clad ogre-men 
 go to act out contrived rivalries and pretend to actually wrestle. While these simplifications 
 certainly hit on some truths about "sports entertainment," the remarkable talents and impressive 
 athleticism of its practitioners cannot be denied. If you're the kind of person who enjoys the 
 high-flying, hard-hitting spectacle of pro wrestling in spite of its myriad absurdities, then TNA 
 Impact may be the game for you. It has some aggravating problems, but it does a great job of translating 
 the excitement of TNA Wrestling into fluid action and visceral fun.  

  A wrestling game is only as fun as the moves you can perform, and in this regard, TNA Impact does 
 quite well. You ratchet up your basic punch and kick attacks by holding the strong modifier or 
 by performing them from a run or in a grapple. This simple layering allows for a wide range of 
 moves without requiring complex button combinations, so it's easy to unleash your nastiest attacks 
 right from the get-go. Each move makes you feel powerful, from a backhand that sends your opponent 
 staggering to a DDT that lays him out. You can also reverse almost any attack with a well-timed 
 button press, and many reversals can be reversed again. The accessible variety of attacks, the 
 crashing impact of each clout, and the ever-looming possibility of reversals make the action fast, 
 furious, and fun.  

           AJ Styles goes about liberating some of Shark Boy's teeth.      

  The more you mix 
 up your moves, the more likely you are to come across some of the game's many technical hitches. 
 When the animations run smoothly, they look great and produce exceedingly satisfying impacts. When 
 they don't quite line up, you see fists and feet clipping through torsos, as well as apparent misses 
 registering as hits. These oddities, common to most modern wrestling games, are a minor distraction, 
 and won't hinder your pugilistic endeavors.  

  The more frustrating glitches cause your character to perform unintended maneuvers, often with 
 disastrous results. These are prone to surface in a few situations, the most frequent of which 
 are transitions, such as when your character is getting up off the mat, climbing a turnbuckle, 
 or exiting the ring. Because your attack changes depending on your opponent's position, you may 
 often find yourself aiming to punch an enemy as soon as he stands up, only to execute an elbow 
 drop and lay yourself out at his stomp-happy feet. You can also dodge grapples or attacks when 
 you're near the edge of the ring because the animation of rolling out of the ring will often negate 
 incoming moves. Then, there's the particularly tricky situation when your opponent is down near 
 the edge of the ring. Climbing up on the turnbuckle, rolling out of the ring, and pinning an opponent 
 are all mapped to the same button, which makes it very difficult to figure out how to position 
 yourself to execute the action you want. In this case, you're better off avoiding those three actions 
 altogether.  

  When you're playing against other human players, these hang-ups don't feel so frustrating because 
 you are all subject to the same pitfalls. Everyone can take advantage of each others' missteps 
 and laugh about it. Even on moderate difficulty levels, you can still suffer a few miscues and 
 scrape out a win. However, as you play through the single-player Story mode, you'll eventually 
 hit a wall. As the foes get tougher, the room for error diminishes so much so that one missed move 
 or missed opportunity can cost you the match. This is vexing enough when it's an honest mistake, 
 but it becomes downright infuriating when it's an animation glitch.  

  The Story mode begins when you design a new wrestler using the fairly robust character creator. 
 You then fight your way through a serviceable plot that is pretty much par for the pro wrestling 
 course. The voice acting is lackluster and feels somewhat flat in contrast with the vigorous banter 
 featured on the actual show, but the real shame is that the actor who voices your wrestler is just 
 awful. His performance casts a shadow on the TNA stars, one you should try to shake off by checking 
 out the training videos featured in the extras menu (the short ring entrances probably won't do 
 much for you) . The real incentive to play the Story mode is to unlock new characters, moves, and 
 arenas. You do this by earning style points in each match. The riskier and more varied your moves 
 are, the more points you'll earn, which is a nice motivation to mix things up. Equipping more impressive 
 moves is fun, though each time you want to change your move set, you'll have to reenter character-customization 
 tool and sit through a long save time.  

           Samoa Joe uses a chair to smack Sting right in the face paint.      

  Multiplayer 
 is the best way to enjoy TNA Impact, and there's a wide array of match types. One-on-one matches, 
 three-way free-for-alls, four-player tag-team brawls, handicap contests, and the signature Ultimate 
 X matches are all playable locally, though the online selection is a bit more limited. Ultimate 
 X matches, while dramatic on television, often feel less exciting than normal matches because the 
 focus becomes staying aloft on the cables rather than pummeling your opponents. There's nothing 
 unexciting about that per se, but the hanging combat is awkward and limited. Actually grabbing 
 the X also requires you to tap a button when a moving cursor lines up with a target area -- an action 
 that could be diplomatically described as "anticlimactic." Additionally, online matches are sometimes 
 hindered by lag, which can make pulling off reversals, grabbing the X, and getting out of pins 
 trickier than usual.  

  So, TNA Impact is not without its flaws. The character models are excellent while the animation 
 is fluid and lively, but the physics of fighting definitely lack polish and can create some frustrating 
 situations. Yet despite these technical shortcomings, it's still great fun to clothesline, drop 
 kick, and power bomb your friends in and out of the ring. And, ultimately, isn't that what pro 
 wrestling is all about?     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (13 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: sigmazero2590
Rating: 2
Date: Apr 2, 2009 2:01 pm PT
Review:  Awful has to be one of the worst games i have ever played just feels really rushed. A game thats 
 best avoided even if you are a wrestling fan very repetative boring and if any one has seen tna 
 or knows anything about it it dosent even have a full roster there are wrestlers missing like pete 
 wiliams, curry man, kaz etc and the create a player is really poor also there is very little variety 
 move wise. I mean i know it has been going for a lot longer so you would expect it to be better 
 but if its a wrestling game your after your best bet is to go with the smackdown vs raw series. Hopefully 
 should they decide to make another tna game they will make it better and improve on the flaws that 
 this game has and in my opinion make it actually worth buying as I had high hopes for this game 
 being a fan of tna but i was very dissapointed and as a result sold the game the day after i purchased 
 it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chiragsharmadx
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 2:34 am PT
Review:  Tna Wrestling is a great wrestling foundation and for sure gives wwe a sure challenge in the future. 
 But not just not as a wrestling company but also as a video game!! 
  
  First things first is that the game looks great. They got everything down from arm hair to the 
 chest hair and to the tattoos. The submission moves are a lot funner than svr. Its a little puzzle 
 game where you have to hit the 3 keys before your opponent. If you do then you have to do 1 more 
 puzzle then another. If you do that then your opponent's damage meter will turn what ever the next 
 damage color is. The Impact zone look very good and the commentary is done very well. The entrances 
 look very sharp even though they are cut short. The story mode has a very good story to it and 
 will keep you in trusted through out the whole story. The only down line is that it is short, and 
 that you can't use a superstar, and that you have to use a created superstar. In the story mode 
 you play as Suicide who is the world champion. And you are going to defend you tittle then LAX 
 gangs up on you and they say you better lose this next match and lose your tittle. But then you 
 win the match and then LAX basically t beat you up untill your almost dead and then ditch your 
 body. Just so you know you don't play this part it's all video. So then someone finds you and puts 
 you in the hospital. But your face so badly messed up then they have to do plastic surgery on your 
 face so then you have create a superstar. Then the rest you will have to find out for your self. 
 In Tna you earn style points in matches for moves you do. So say if I do my finisher on someone 
 then I get 500 style points. So you should try and do as many moves as you can so you get more 
 style points. You use style points to unlock stuff. The stadiums look very nice. 
  
  Tna did have some problems though.
  
  The controls are mostly based on the button o. If you 
 want to get out of the ring you hit o. If you want to go to the top turn buckle up press o. There 
 are problems with that happening if you want to climb the top turn buckle you might just end up 
 going out of the ring, and if you want get out of the ring you just might end up climbing the top 
 turn buckle. The most aggravating part is the way to kick out. When you are being pined a meter 
 shows up on the screen and you have to fill that meter to kick out. The way to kick out is that 
 you have to keep on going back and forth with the analog stick. At least in svr there is no meter 
 and you don't have to use the analog stick and you just have to keep on hitting any button. Also 
 under your Impact meter (witch is the meter you have to fill to get you finishing ) is a red meter. That 
 meter shows how bad your hurt and once it is full your person will become unconscious and you will 
 have to wait for that meter to drain out. So your oppenents can do what ever to you while you unconscious. 
 But it can also work for you because it will happen to him to. The part that I hate the most is 
 that almost all the time the computer will reverse you move. 
  
  All out Tna is a great but with a few problems that for sure can be fixed in the next game. But 
 you can't blame Mideway because it is there first wrestling games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Tregster
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 17, 2008 8:42 pm PT
Review:  During the 2 years this game has been in production, I've always had my doubts about it. I now 
 know I was right all along.
  
  Let's start with the very short list of what's good about this game. The moves you do in the ring 
 look very fluid and true to TV. Due to the fact that the actual TNA wrestlers were motion captured. 
 The character models themselves look pretty decent. And I like the fact that every single wrestler 
 looks like they should physically.. compared to where Smackdown games have nearly every character 
 (no matter what they look like in real life) with six pack abs.
  
  And the bad.. omg.. where to start? For one, yeah, the character models look pretty good BUT all 
 the wrestlers are the same height! Making matches like Abyss vs. AJ Styles look ridiculous. 
  
  The controls seem a little weird over complicated.. holding down L1 while pressing down triangle 
 with a direction will give you a strong grapple, etc. Circle is the universal action button that 
 does everything, causing you to get out of the ring or climb the turnbuckle when you really want 
 to pin the guy.
  
  The gameplay itself is horrid. Hit detection problems and random glitches. The reversal system 
 is almost hilarious sometimes. When reversing at dropkick it ends up going into an animation of 
 reversing a powerbomb. The game evidently wants me to break my controller wiggling the left analog 
 stick when trying to kick out of a pin. 
  
  Out of the box, over half the game is unlockables! You even have to unlock moves for your CAW. 
 Leaving you with not many wrestlers to choose from and a default moveset. To unlock everything 
 you have to go through the incredibly tedious story mode, which is full of awful voice acting and 
 a incredibly simple looking create-a-wrestler system. 
  
  All the wrestlers have pretty much the same moveset. The only thing differentiating them is their 
 finishing moves. The rest of the moves are all generic and lacking in any signiture moves. Making 
 you not get the feeling of actually playing as your favorite TNA wrestler. If you played as one 
 character you played as them all.
  
  All in all, I think this has been a step backwards in wrestling games. There is little to keep 
 me motivated to play this game and I'm glad I just rented it. NOT FUN AT ALL. They are already 
 working on the sequel to this, but after this debacle of a game, I'm not giving it a second chance. 
 Waiting for this game, I had the hope that this would be a good arcade style wrestling game opposed 
 to Smackdown's slow simulation style. But looks like I might have to wait much longer. Even if 
 you are a huge wrestling fan like myself.. do not even rent this game. Trust me, you'll be glad 
 you didn't. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Paladin_King
Rating: 5.5
Date: Oct 4, 2008 2:18 am PT
Review:  The Intro
  
  So, TNA wrestling continues its bid to match the WWE in all things by doing the inevitable and 
 coming out with their first game. For wrestling fans, this is pretty exciting, as it marks the 
 first time since the folding of WCW that we have had an official non-WWE wrestling this side of 
 the Pacific. If only it could've been better.
  
  The Good
  
  This game is sloppy fun at its best. This is NOT a good game, but when played locally with a few 
 friends, it can be enjoyable because of it. As you've probably found in wrestling games in general, 
 it's fun to just mindlessly flail away at each other. With a few friends, the game becomes a wild, 
 chaotic mess and can become fun because of it. You'll have a lot of laughs and a pretty fun few 
 hours before the game's flaws manage to penetrate through even the mirage of local multiplayer 
 gaming. Playing with friends can make many things fun, and TNA Impact is no different, as it delivers 
 the perfect arena for a sloppy good time.
  
  Also, it needs saying that it really IS a thrill to be able to play a TNA product. Using wrestlers 
 like Samoa Joe or AJ Styles is a total mark-out for wrestling fans, many of whom have probably 
 created said characters in WWE-based games. It's fresh, and from a novelty perspective alone, it's 
 worth a go.
  
  Finally, the graphics are solid enough in single player, with the character models moving well 
 enough and everything looking fine.
  
  The grappling system, though nothing earth-shattering, also proves itself fairly competent. 
 
  
  The Bad
  
  Oh dear, where to start.
  
  My first major gripe is with a design choice in the game. Midway obviously understood that unlockables 
 play a big role in a game like this. That said, they went totally overboard here. Fresh out of 
 the box, the game is absolutely crippled. This does not make you want to play more and unlock things. 
 Rather, it leaves a bad taste in your mouth after a rental. About a quarter of the characters are 
 playable out of the box. Furthermore, you'll only be playing in ONE arena. And oh yeah, it takes 
 a LOT to unlock stuff.
  
  Worst of all though is how this utterly ruins the create-a-wrestler mode, which is otherwise pretty 
 good. The Create a wrestler mode is solid, but the thing is, every single move choice is locked. 
 That's right. That means that until you start unlocking moves, you literally have almost no choice 
 of moves for your created wrestler beyond a series of preset models. This basically destroys everything 
 the Create-a-wrestler mode does well in the game.
  
  As far as gameplay goes, there are also numerous problems here as well. There are hit detection 
 problems. Often times, your character will be hit by running attacks that clearly did not touch 
 you. 
  
  Also, the grappling system, while solid, simply does not have enough moves across the board. There 
 is a LOT of move duplication between the game's wrestlers. For instance, me and four friends played 
 several 4 man free for alls, each time with different wrestlers and each time, every single one 
 of our wrestlers was able to perform a death valley driver. That's ridiculous. It really starts 
 to impede on the novelty factor of playing these fresh wrestlers when so many of their moves are 
 the same. This is only worsened by the fact that each wrestler only has one special finisher. 
 
  
  The game also breaks the cardinal rule of wrestling games by simply not having enough match types. 
 Ultimate X is basically the only gimmick match playable here. Considering TNA's love of gimmick 
 matches, this is unforgivable. Worse still is that if you're trying to play with 4 players, you're 
 straight out of luck. No Ultimate X with 4 players and frankly, there's nothing to offer four players 
 save for a tag team match or a free for all. There are no ladders, no cages, no nothing. This is 
 just rushed.
  
  Part of what this leads to is another feeling of the game's being rushed and stripped, as it means 
 there are NO "hardcore" type matches. Instead, every match is "hardcore." However, all this means 
 is that there are four chairs outside of the ring that can be used until they break... and that's 
 it. There are no other weapon types and the chairs do not regenerate. Ugh.
  
  Ultimate X mode, as the only gimmick match available, is unfortunately pretty crappy, in that it 
 is incredibly difficult to win. Not that it's difficult to win in a game difficulty way, but more 
 that it's just impossible to finish the match. Players get to the centre and then have to complete 
 a difficult action-metre test at least eight times, while players on the bottom are free to pull 
 them down. This is bad news and can lead to 3 player Ultimate X matches last well over an hour, 
 as nobody is free to win unless the other players give up and allow it. If the other players play 
 to win, no one will win the match. 
  
  The single player campaign's story is also incredibly lame. Story-wise, it felt absolutely ridiculous, 
 in particular because it didn't feel like a wrestling story-line, but instead, it felt like the 
 plot-line of some strange Japanese beat-em-up from the 90s.
  
  Finally, graphics show a significant drop as more players jump into the game. As the camera zooms 
 out, suddenly the game no longer looks particularly good at all. Ugh. I also miss the referee dynamics 
 of other wrestling games. TNA Impact goes back in time, having no referees within the match.
  
  The Conclusion
  
  Worth a rent, I guess, if you're wrestling fan. If not, don't bother. 
 Honestly, unless you're incredibly curious, even as a wrestling fan, you can probably pass even 
 renting this. It's just so rushed and barebones in comparison to its competitors that it's weaknesses 
 are glaring. It's restricted and limited, yet also sloppy and rushed. That's not the formula for 
 a good game. Maybe next time, they can build on this and make it better, with more match types, 
 more moves, and less unlocks. Until next time then. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratm247
Rating: 3.5
Date: Sep 23, 2008 12:38 pm PT
Review:  i am not a wrestling fan since hogans golden era, but i still enjoy wrestling games... or i used 
 to. game companies: MAKE NO MERCY WITH BETTER GRAPHICS!!!!!
  
  this game has pretty good graphics in single player mode.
  
  the story is horrible, and in 
 no way makes you care about whats going on, an in many cases you dont know whats going on. most 
 of it is just a voice over while you watch a load screen.
  
  the tag team portion is angering beyond belief, as it takes about 5 minutes of nonstop pummeling 
 to get your opponents to show the slightest damage, and then they tag out and heal. 
  
  the cpu is only ever about 3-5 moves away from pinning you, so trying any kind of real wresting 
 moves is too risky, as one reversal and you lose the match, ive taken to just pummeling them with 
 strong blows until i get my special.
  
  moves are incredibly limited, there are no moves from behind, all wrestlers have very similar move 
 sets, create a wrestler worse, at halfway through the game youll have about 4-5 moves unlocked 
 from your default moves.
  
  controls are disastrous. one button to pin, climb rope, and exit ring, so its like roulette trying 
 to do something unless your in the middle of the ring. 
  
  there are 2 buttons to melee, but you seem to just do a random attack each time, the strong hits 
 look the same as the weak hits. as well you can hit someone when they are about 2 feet out of reach.
 
  
  even though the icon to reverse comes up for all moves, i find you can only reverse about 3-4 moves.
 
  
  to kickout of a pin you must wiggle the joystick extremely fast, my controller was noticeably, 
 and alarmingly looser after the 1st day of playing it. longterm use will surely ruin your joysticks. 
 the same is used for coming out of stuns, but i dont really notice that it helps at all. kicking 
 out of a pin, or becoming unstunned is not worth the damage it does to your joystick.
  
  these are just a few of the things wrong with the game, and make it unplayable for me. i could 
 easily list many more problems, but its not worth my time, i just wanted to say more than "it sucks". 
 i found myself very close to smashing this game many times, as even on the easiest setting it just 
 feels like work. i was really looking forward to this game as the smackdown versus raw series is 
 such crap as well. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: George120050
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 22, 2008 1:16 am PT
Review:  TNA IMPACT! plays like what wrestling games fans have been begging for: that awesome AKI gameplay. 
 TNA is so fluid, the controls so good, it will make you smile right away. (Hernandez' Border Toss 
 over the top rope is a thing of beauty) Wrestlers DO NOT have all the same moves. AJ Styles has 
 the Styles Clash, the Pele, his Moonsault DDT, and even his flying fist/forearm in a springboard, 
 top rope and turnbuckle corner forms! 
  The only problem the game has is that it is short on moves but not to any ridiculous extent. If 
 there was a DLC package that doubled the moves this would be a 10/10 game. Its graphics, game play 
 and fun factor soar above the SvR series to an almost absurd extent. TNA IMPACT! 2 will definitely 
 be the best wrestling game ever made. Oh and I am in no way a TNA fan boy, the only great show 
 I ever saw of theirs was Global Impact with Angle vs. Nagata. If you're missing your old N64 AKI 
 WCW/WWF games, the Gamecube's WWE Day of Reckoning games, or Japanese PS2 games like Wrestle Kingdom 
 1& 2, then this is what you want. 
  I cancelled my pre-order as well amidst the uproar about that IGN Midway Q&A on all the game site 
 forums. It was all mindless hysteria as this game rules despite being light on moves and not having 
 blood. Short entrances? No Knockouts? Poor CAW? No video screens playing the action in the background 
 of the arena? WHO THE HELL CARES? SvR is a broken game with massive amounts of features to cover 
 up that fact, TNA IMPACT! is sparse but with highly refined game play, controls and graphics. IMPACT!'s 
 moveset is much deeper than Ultimate Muscle: The Kinnikuman Legacy L vs. NG and that game was a 
 lot of fun. Most importantly wrestling game players have gotten back the physics engine they have 
 missed for so long, suped up and not feeling stale at all. 
  There is room for improvement like it is annoying that when you lock up in a strong grapple you 
 can't move to get your positioning as you want it. And sadly four man elimination free-for-alls 
 still aren't back, one pin or submission ends it all. Oh how I miss the AKI style free-for-alls 
 where you didn't lose control of your wrestler after you lost, could trip up your still un-eliminated 
 friends or drag them out of the ring for more beatings.
  
  p. s. It's mind boggling to me that the same company (Yukes) made both the abysmal SvR games, and 
 the wonderful DoR and Wrestle Kingdom games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sw0rDMaN
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 17, 2008 1:15 pm PT
Review:  Lets be honest here. TNA Impact is really a boring wrestling game.
  
  This game lacks everything! There are almost no wrestling modes to choose from. You dont even have 
 the simple tornado tag match. 
  
  The create a wrestler mode is simply pathetic. With barely any grapples, strikes and finishers 
 to select from Its not even worth to create a superstar. Oh ya! You can choose from 10 different 
 entrances which you cant even preview in the create mode.. WTF!
  
  But the number 1 reason this game makes me angry, Is the lack of Blood and Pain Effects. You can 
 smash a chair 10 times in the face of your opponent, he will never bleed but worst of all he will 
 immediatly get up. Try eating a chair in the face and get up right after It, well imagine 20 chair 
 hits :P I dont think you would get up very quickly form that. Or another example , with Kurt Angle 
 I did my olympic slam on shark boy right on the concrete floor, well guess what It took him 2 seconds 
 to get up and grapple me.
  
  The only thing that we could call decent about this game would be thet graphics IF we can call 
 them decent.
  
  I was very disapointed by TNA Impact. I had high hopes for this game but will all those frustrating 
 aspects here.. Well its almost impossible to have any fun at all. But the worst part is That I 
 bought the game knowing that It would be a great product but this is just CRAP. I Cant wait for 
 Smackdown 09! =) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: stevo-millz
Rating: 6.5
Date: Sep 15, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  the slogan that they chose for this game couldnt be more true it is "easy to play but hard to master", 
 you are constantly kept on your feet since nearly all of the moves are reversable that being said 
 there dont seem to be that many and you sometimes find yourself repeating the same move again and 
 again.
  
  I like it that you have to unlock more characters and moves but it would be nice to get more create 
 parts for your wrestler, more finishers would be nice also as the finishers you choose from seem 
 to be from the actual wrestlers in the game. 
  
  more weapons would be nice like ladders tables etc but u cant have everything and its only the 
 fist game it has good graphics and the ultimate x match is good to play with a few m8s, the story 
 mode is good but it would have been better if you where aloud to lose a match instead of having 
 to beat evryone. 
  
  In my opinion it is worth playing even though it can be annoying at times, I do think that they 
 should make anoter one with more stuff in it 6 sides of steel would be good to see, and it is nice 
 to have something new to choos from other than WWE games which have gone a bit stale 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DevilD2005
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 13, 2008 9:17 pm PT
Review:  So Midway for the past year or two has been boasting about all they would put in a solid TNA Game. 
 Now for those who don't know what TNA is, TNA stands for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. From its 
 humble beginings as NWA-TNA, the company has grown from obscurity to telivision rating that could 
 compare to ECW. 
  
  The format is simple, a six sided ring, focus on known personalities spanning from recent to those 
 from the old days of WCW. The X division is best classified as a division without limits and there 
 are no "Divas" just Knockouts who focus on brutal slams and agility then just looking pretty. This 
 is TNA.
  
  The game however is a completely different story. 
  
  To compete in a market ruled by one wrestling game (Smackdown vs Raw) TNA decided to trust in Midway 
 to break in. Now TNA is known for its gimmick matches, but in this case, only one of them makes 
 the game. See originally TNA and Midway made alot of promises, "Over 2000 Mocapped moves", "King 
 of the Mountain", "Full Metal Mayhem", "All your favorite superstars", "All your favorite moves, 
 ect. Two and a half years later, we got somewhere around 18 or so total front grapples in the game! 
 
  
  The list of cons is pretty big. The game is flawed. The AI, though challenging is extremely single 
 minded and the games idea of hard is, how much damage the opponent does to you per ratio of how 
 much you do to it. That and just how much they will reverse your moves. Ps3 version does have some 
 glitches. It is likely one would notice them from time to time, fortunately, nothing major. 
  
  Another flaw is the lack of moves as previously stated. Everyone feels the same. The only personality 
 that feels well, like themself, is AJ Styles. That is because all his original moves are in the 
 game but... every high flyer gets them. Also this takes out so many other superstars signature moves. 
 Honestly, they have videos of them mocapping different submission moves that arent in the game. 
 Sting doesnt have the deathlock, Angle doesnt have the anklelock, and some people dont even have 
 their proper finishers. You can play several matches with several different wrestlers and beleive 
 me, you might verywell see every move in the game minus the finishers.
  
  Some of the wrestlers dont even reflect their persona. I am sorry but Robert Roode does not enter 
 the ring like Robert Roode. James Storm is not getting drunk when he walks out from the enterance. 
 This of course is minor, but considering how well known these gimmicks are, they come off as generic. 
 In the ring, they all walk the same, many punch the same. And don't get me started on the taunts. 
 
  
  When it comes to the generic wrestlers, they give them the same move sets, all with "The Cradle" 
 manuever. Trust me, I like this move, but you cant tell me that half the world uses that move!
 
  
  A small list of what cons remain are the AI, the "move the stick" game, and tag matches. The AI 
 as stated can be pretty cheap. Except for a select few of wrestlers, they all have the same game 
 strategy, you may find almost every match at some point the AI opponent, be they face, heel, known 
 hardcore wrestlers, or just Eric Young (who I would bet is scared of weapons) will leave the ring 
 and come back with a chair. 
  
  The kickout system can be a pain unless mastered, which is not the easiest thing to do. Many times, 
 one will find that they are in the orange, or barely red, and when the opponent goes for a pin, 
 they cant kick out. They move the stick as hard, as fast as they can and they keep losing. The 
 AI, kicks out like a pro. It has been the center of ALOT of frusteration. Especially being that 
 storymode requires you to win each match.
  
  Tag Matches can be fun, problem is the camera stays zoomed out and your partner is practicly no 
 help. Good news is, sometimes the opponents partner isnt to bright either. However some fights 
 become one sided when they are breaking up all your pins and your good old partner isnt going to 
 do anything for you. Also, no taq team or double team moves. We are looking at an era based off 
 the awesomness of The MCMG, LAX, and many others, and we dont even get tag team moves? Whats even 
 more embarrasing is watching as known tag teams come into the ring one by one, rather then a group. 
 
  
  Other then these issues, this game is fun. The graphics are awesome when viewed with an HDtv. There 
 is such a high attention to the minor details it almost blows your socks off. I have to say that 
 graphicly, its next gen wrestling at its best. And what works is the scenery is so well done, each 
 venue has its own feel to it. Wether its the indy venue of a mexican small town square, a warehouse 
 in an army base, or the grand hall of Washington DC, they all look beautiful and work. 
  
  We also get 60 fps (frames per second) and let me say, it makes a difference. Especially with the 
 mocapped moves, at 60 fps, it honestly almost makes the competition look bad with its core gameplay. 
 
  
  Gameplay itself is were the fun comes in. In this game the fun is inflicting damage on your opponents, 
 and with every reveral, punch, or innovative finishers, it sells well. I kid you not, punching 
 looks painful, sweeping a guy off his feet can make someone say "OH!" In short, its fun to punch, 
 its fun to reverse and its fun to do all the moves you got. For the most part, when the AI isnt 
 cheating you, its basic simplicity of gaming at its best. And this is where the game really shines. 
 
  
  Other gameplay highlights: Almost everything is reversible, even reverses. Every move is interuptable, 
 if the opponent is going for a powerbomb, and a person dropkicks him, he wont be finishing that 
 powerbomb while he is on the floor. Every move flows, so much so, it looks like you are merely 
 hit him with a combo that ends in an arm drag, death valley driver, chokeslam and so forth. Also, 
 its so easy in FFA (Free for all's where its everyone for themself first to pin wins) to break 
 up your opponents pin rather then trying to get the right focus and hitting the attack buttons 
 hoping to hit. This can make these matches draw out for quite some time and especially if your 
 with freinds, these things can make for some good memories. 
  
  This game is easy to pick up and play at will, hard to master. Also the CAW feature is simple, 
 easy and more realistic then the others. Granted I cannot go all out unlike the other games, but 
 I will say my wrestlers look and feel more realisticly like the wrestlers I want to create then 
 in other games. However I wont be able to create any famous wrestlers with outstanding gimmicks 
 anytime soon. That can be a drawback for some gamers.
  
  The story mode is a breath of fresh air. It doesnt play like the season modes of other wrestling 
 games or story modes, however it does have its drawbacks. Fighting generic wrestlers can be fun, 
 infact it is. But when your in TNA and you are fighting generic wrestler after generic wrestler... its 
 unrealistic. Also some characters in this game are flat out unlike their tv counter parts. Eric 
 Young and Christopher Daniels steal the story mode with their performances. Everyone else... but 
 its no big deal. All I will say is, dont expect a TNA experiance from the storyline. 
  
  Also their is an excellent amount of content. Five or so actual TNA wrestling macthes so you can 
 catch up on your wrestling history, char bios, Tutorials, small loading times, and good behind 
 the scenes footage.
  
  I give this game a strong 7.5 . 
  
  If they added more gameplay modes, expanded controls, better AI, a few mechanic tweaks and stuff, 
 I will not lie, this could have been the best wrestling game ever, and they have the future ahead 
 of them to improve. But for now, we have a rushed final product with limited moves, basic gameplay 
 and downloadable content coming in the future. So yes, this game falls short of greatness but succedes 
 in its own right, just fails to make the leap past that final barrier. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: leatherface_19
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 13, 2008 6:24 am PT
Review:  Alright first lets discuss the details.
  
  iMPACT! first of all there are NO Championship defenses no Championships AT ALL for that matter.
 
  
  But you can't blame TNA its a good starter.
  
  Next, iMPACT! fails to have a good Create-A-Wrestler.
  
  Its not as good as WWE's BUT again 
 it was a good start.
  
  NOW, the storyline that EVERYBODY thinks is the worst.
  
  The iMPACT! storyline is on one guy: Suicide, he is the biggest TNA superstar YET.
  
  Until 
 LAX knocks him cold and he forgets who he is and has to start ALL OVER.
  
  From there on you create your wrestler then start with Mexico wrestling and then move your way 
 up to Military wrestling.
  
  FINALLY we get to TNA iMPACT! This is where you face a series of other wrestlers till you get to 
 Jay Lethal beat him then go one to be a iMPACT! superstar.
  
  OK, the horrid commentarty. This commentary sourta reminds me of WWF JBI and WWE SYM's commentary: 
 IT BLOWS.
  
  But again first game not everything can be good the first time.
  
  Next, the tag team messup. During tag team matches there is a wierd ass camera angle that totally 
 sucks and probably taks you mind off the match. 
  
  AND then you have the A. I. being stupid as ever. YES iMPACT! has the worst A. I. making tag matches 
 HELL.
  
  Character wise now, At the start of the game MANY of the good wrestlers are locked so your gonna 
 most likely have to fight your way through story mode to unlock most of them.
  
  FINALLY, the match types:
  
  You have at the start you have Ultimate X, Standard, Free for 
 All, and some real lame Falls Count Anywhere matches. 
  
  So overall iMAPACT! was a good starter for TNA video games.
  
  
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Josanghualea55
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 9:28 am PT
Review:  I give this game a 7.5 its got some pretty good graphics the intros are really short and reversals 
 are way too easy def needs a lot of work not horrible for a first time wrestling game Ultimate 
 X is way to easy 1v1 haven't played Free-for-all Ultimate X yet... as far as the wait since the 
 game was first announced i think they announced before they even thought about it and kept pushing 
 the date back until they could figure out how to actually make a game more maybe they were ready 
 to release and thought there product was junk to long of a wait for the status of this product... fun 
 game for the most part i do recommend this game if you are a fan of wrestling games but don't expect 
 a lot if they add match types in the next version that would be a huge plus roster size is decent 
 and i liked having to unlock wrestlers so it kind of forces you to play the season mode overall 
 7.5 good game 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dirty89
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 11, 2008 4:56 am PT
Review:  I have to start off by saying that i have played every wrestling game since the nintendo 8-bit 
 days. I know that this is your first TNA game Midway but give us fans a break whats up with the 
 pinning system. I spent a whole match using Kurt Angle to beat the hell out of Shark Boy just to 
 get a cheap lost because of the broken kick out system this game has. If Midway was to give us fans 
 any patch please redo the kick out system from analog to buttons then this game will be fair and 
 enjoyable. I love the graphics and the controls for the moves are learnable but why do you censor 
 us with no blood I mean i not comparing this to the smackdown series but it makes since that if 
 the ring has blood stains and plastic surgeons in story mode have blood on their clothes that us 
 fans should cause in game superstars to spill blood think about it abyss is known for his bloody 
 matches but this game make him look tame and censored. I looking forward to Smackdown vs Raw 2009 
 because im just naturally a fan of wrestling period but in the meanwhile Midway you have to step 
 up things a lot better if you want to come near the competition. This game is a buy if Midway send 
 us Tna fans some game worthy patches and downloadable content. I haven't played online yet but the 
 way the kick out system is I have no interest in further frustration. The game in a whole has a 
 fresh feel over-all the Smackdown games but dont expect to dominate matches like you would in a 
 smackdown game. Buy it if your a fan but a newbie just rent it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MaliceMalachi
Rating: 6
Date: Sep 10, 2008 10:22 pm PT
Review:  If you go into this game knowing that it is the beginning of a series then it makes it acceptable. 
 However, if you go into the game expecting it to be anything like any WWE game you have ever played, 
 you are bound to be dissappointed right away. 
  Controls are awkward at first and the tutorials are not helpful at all. I recommend doing a few 
 exhibitions and then an ultimate x and then story mode. Ultimate X is great fun. I look forward 
 to Midway and TNA fixing a few bugs and hopefully adding downloadable content/patches for this 
 game.
  Story mode is acceptable except that it is a straight path. You have to win matches to continue. 
 Annoying part is you have to play story mode to unlock several characters. There is not shop to 
 buy additional items. You are rewarded so many points upon winning a match and the extras are automatically 
 unlocked for you.
  One cool thing is the TNA Extras, there are about 5 classic TNA matches you can watch.
  
  I 
 was disapointed with this game because Samoa Joe and AJ Styles put are both gamers, they put a 
 lot of work into it. Knowing this I was expecting more from this game. Better luck next times fellows.
 
  
  Overall - Not a bad game, but I will be more than ready to throw it aside to pickup and play Smackdown 
 vs Raw 2009 when that comes out later this year. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
