-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tomb Raider: Underworld
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/tombraider8/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Excellent mix of outdoor, underground, and underwater locations.
 Lara's new moves add to her existing abilities.
 Some excellent level and puzzle design.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Existing clipping and camera issues remain.
 Forgettable story and cliched dialogue.
 Lack of refinement to the core gameplay.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Nov 26, 2008
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 7
Critic Score: 7.6, 34 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 658 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Eidos Interactive
Developer: Crystal Dynamics
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Nov 18, 2008
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Tomb Raider Underworld will satisfy fans of Lara's previous adventures, but it does little to address 
 previous games' problems. 

  When Eidos handed development of the Tomb Raider franchise to Crystal Dynamics, it was a risky 
 but ultimately wise decision. The team managed to reinvent the series while staying true to its 
 roots with Tomb Raider: Legend, while Tomb Raider: Anniversary built on solid foundations to reimagine 
 Lara Croft's original adventure. Tomb Raider Underworld is Crystal Dynamics' third game in as many 
 years, and the high work rate is starting to show. Lara may have plenty of new moves at her disposal, 
 but little has been done to address the many camera and clipping issues still present. Tomb Raider 
 Underworld offers an enticing new adventure, but if you're a fan of the series you'll find that 
 Lara is starting to show her age.  

           Underworld features a forgettable story and cliched dialogue, but thankfully the cut-scenes 
 are short.      

  As the "Underworld" suffix suggests, this Tomb Raider covers darker territory than its predecessors. 
 It follows the same adventure template that we've come to expect, but it also deals with death, 
 resurrection, and even Norse mythology in its story. Things start out badly for Lara; a prologue 
 of her racing to escape her lofty mansion as it burns to the ground. Cut back two weeks, and we 
 find Lara trying to take care of some of her father's unfinished business, something that leads 
 her on to discovering more about her mother, characters from previous games, and the mythical Hammer 
 of Thor. It's badly written, poorly voiced, and instantly forgettable for anyone but hardcore fans 
 of the series, but thankfully the cutscenes are mercifully short, leaving you to get down to the 
 serious business of raiding tombs.  

  Tomb Raider Underworld is constructed in an almost identical fashion to its predecessors, with 
 exploration in exotic locations punctuated by occasional combat and vehicle sections. The interaction 
 between Lara and the environments has long been the draw of the series, and performing daring jumps 
 to scale seemingly impossible heights is as satisfying as ever. Lara's even learned a few new moves 
 in the year since Anniversary, and she can now free-climb, balance along thin beams, and abseil 
 using her rappel line. Crucially, none of these moves complicates Lara's basic movement, and while 
 you have to adjust your eyes to the many new visual cues showing you where to go, they all add 
 new levels to the simple pleasure of adventuring.  

  While these new abilities expand Lara's already-impressive acrobatic skills, there are a lot of 
 gameplay issues that continue to annoy. The world is incredibly rigid, with strict rules on which 
 platforms, objects, and edges can be interacted with and which can't. The places where Lara can 
 go are well marked out -- they feature nice right-angled edges and are usually lighter than the surrounding 
 material to signify your route through. This makes it easier to figure out the correct way to go, 
 but at the same time it means there's little room for improvisation, and the genre has moved beyond 
 such linear progression. Even worse, Lara will frequently clip into a piece of the scenery and 
 then refuse to come out until you stop, turn around, and run out of it again. Add all this to an 
 incredibly unruly camera, and Tomb Raider Underworld is still just as frustrating as its predecessors. 

           Laras been a very dirty girl.      

  There's an impressive mix of locales in Underworld, and the environments boast greater scale than 
 ever before. The underwater diving is incredibly atmospheric, and while there's often no indication 
 of where you need to go, you won't mind swimming around the beautiful-looking abyss. There are 
 also some great outdoor locations, and you'll race through vast temples, snowy mountains, and jungle 
 environments. While Lara's bike looks and feels more like Batman's Tumbler than anything from the 
 real world, it's much easier to use than the vehicles in previous games, and there are multiple 
 routes that you can take. As the name suggests, though, this game features plenty of underground 
 adventuring, and the sense of claustrophobia as you descend into these lost worlds is wonderfully 
 conveyed.  

  You won't come across an abundance of enemies in the game, but the ones that you do encounter are 
 incredibly stupid. Human enemies will stand in front of you as you pummel them with gunfire, while 
 the real-world and mythical beasts wait to emerge from the same spot every time. There's still 
 no cover system in Tomb Raider, so you're left to go behind objects, run out to fire, and then 
 repeat until you've dealt with the threat. It's incredibly fiddly when held up to the combat in 
 Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, but thankfully there's an ultra-powerful weapon toward the end of the 
 game that eradicates the need to take cover completely. The whole weapon system is poorly balanced 
 from the start -- you choose one firearm at the beginning of each level, but if you check your inventory 
 you'll find Lara has everything from pistols to an assault rifle into her tiny backpack. Thankfully, 
 the tedious quick-time events have now disappeared completely, while Lara can kick enemies that 
 get too close for comfort.  

           Laras new abilities include free climbing and abseiling, and really complement her existing 
 moves.      

  Where Tomb Raider really challenges is in its puzzles, and while they may be formulaic, the sheer 
 size of the environments means that they can take some time to figure out. They usually revolve 
 around collecting keys or other items to activate mechanics in another part of the level, and while 
 you will have to cover a lot of ground to solve them, they're all logically put together. It helps 
 that Lara can now access a tips system from her PDA, with two levels of assistance available to 
 clarify any befuddlement. Press the A button and Lara will give you a hint on what you need to 
 do next; press Y and she'll be more explicit about your goal. The new map is less successful -- Lara's 
 expensive (and curiously waterproof) PDA provides a wireframe model of the current area you're 
 in, but this is useless when trying to backtrack through numerous underground caves.  

  Tomb Raider Underworld is an enjoyable adventure, but it's one that's just too familiar for anyone 
 who's played the previous games. The basic problems with clipping and the unruly camera are still 
 annoying, and while Lara's new abilities add to her impressive athleticism, the route through most 
 levels is still rigidly linear. The AI and combat are also weak, and while fighting is a relatively 
 small part of the game, Underworld would arguably be better without it. That said, the environments 
 are stunning, and working your way through the many different challenges is still as enjoyable 
 as ever. Ultimately there's still life in the Tomb Raider series, but as the title suggests, it 
 may be in need of another resurrection.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (42 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: pokefan810
Rating: 7.5
Date: Apr 14, 2009 7:56 am PT
Review:  I haven't played all the tomb raider games but i definitely played Tomb Raider the last revelation. 
 That game was awesome. There are great problem solving and great action (stunts, and controls) .
 
  
  This was the next TR i played and i enjoyed it but was disappointed. There are some missing stuff 
 i really want in a tomb raider game. I miss the flips of Lara Croft. I even missed the jumping 
 while equipping weapon move. i also missed the parts where you need to think hard in order to get 
 to the next area/stage. Those were missing in this game. There was also a bug where Lara can fall 
 down a corner of a room, and her hand can be stuck during a cut scene.
  
  Despite all that, there are interesting good parts about this game. The graphics were amazingly 
 good. It made Lara a more realistic feminine figure. Not like the ones in the previous game where 
 her boobs were too humongous for her,. (laughs) . I was quite amused by the story. It made me go 
 on and wanna finish the game. Characters that returned was really given a good role in this game,.
 
  
  To wrap it up, this game isn't that bad nor that good. It's just fine and is worth your time. :) 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: berod77
Rating: 7
Date: Apr 13, 2009 8:06 am PT
Review:  It has all the moves, all the fun, but the game mechanics are dumb at least, getting the player 
 frustrated not to see a new style emerge for Lara as some other games have set lately (Assassins 
 Creed for example) where the moves are fluid and natural. The weapons choice is quite limited too. 
 In other games we could evolve the guns to add more firepower, and it got part of the strategy. 
 Here we're stuck with the same weapons from start to finish. Another thing that bothers me quite 
 a bit was the trophies not being present in the game. It makes the treasure search less appealing 
 and doesn't motivate the player to pursue more. The sonar was actually a good idea, but it's hardly 
 helpful. Hopefully they can pick the idea and sort it in a more meaningful way for the future.
 
  The story catches up from the last game, and although linear, it appealing and has some nice moments.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: BrazilianBud
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 5, 2009 12:32 am PT
Review:  Well, I really do think Lara's a little old. Despite being a big fan of the series and having played 
 all of Lara's games, I must say that, the series started off in a good way. The game became old 
 after Tomb Raider 3 and they buried Lara with Angel of Darkness. Crystal Dynamics did a good job 
 with Legend and an amazing job with Anniversary. The series seem to be going down once again.
 
  
  First of all, the question is. What have we, PS3 gamers, got here? We have no extra clothes and 
 we won't have the opportunity to play the extra chapters, which 360 players will. Ok, but there's 
 much more than that... Let's see:
  
  - Graphics are ok, but there are some glitches on the PS3 version and lots of ugly textures, especially 
 in Mexico.
  - The game is fairly short.
  - There are no cool unlockables in this game. Who wants to spend hours looking for relics and stuff 
 like that to, let's say, see some pre-production storyboards? Or concept art? Or get more health 
 when you only fight plain stupid enemies?? Combat in this game is really boring. What I wanted 
 was to play with other characters and have lots of clothes and weapons to choose. I wanted to be 
 able to see those *&%# cinematics after finishing the game. Uncharted creators have got a lot to 
 say on how to make wonderful unlockables, so Crystal Dynamics, learn from them, please.
  - We only get to see the villains, but, we never get the chance to fight them. What has happened 
 to all those creative bosses from previous games? Creativity, please.
  - The "What could Lara do?" thing isn't really innovative. She doesn't really does that much more 
 and they could've explored a lot more on what she could do with her gadgets. Oh, man!
  - The game isn't really difficult. I got stuck only once, in Thor's room (the room with the bridge) . 
 I was hoping for much more challenge.
  
  After all, what's GOOD in this game??
  Well, the environments are beautiful and atmospheric. The puzzles are very well elaborated and 
 you're just amazed with some of them. Lara's beautiful and controls good. I don't really think 
 the camera's that bad. And that's all for what's good in this game. 
  
  I guess Crystal Dynamics should respect more the players, especially the ones with a PS3. Truth 
 is, this version is an unsatisfying adaptation from the 360's game. I wonder how Uncharted looks 
 better and runs A LOT smoother than Underworld. I've even heard the extra content was going to 
 be in Underworld, but was cut out so they could make more money with Microsoft. What about we, 
 fans of the series who own a PS3? We got nothing. Respect the money we spend on your games, producers. 
 I'm glad the game didn't sell as expected. It's nothing more than Crystal Dynamics deserves. Actually, 
 it is more than they deserve.
  
  Hardcore fans, I recommend you rent this game, because mine is on the shelf, cause there's almost 
 no replay value here. So, do you a favor, and save your money for Uncharted 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: katman
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 4:00 am PT
Review:  My summary line sums it all up, I had a great time exploring the different environments as usual, 
 but compared to Uncharted Drakes Fortune, the game falls flat.
  
  First of course is the horrible camera. It was so wild and unpredictable where it would go on it's 
 own, and I felt like I was constantly fighting with it to manually get it to point where I wanted 
 to see, but most of the time never could.
  
  Second the controls just felt off. Too many times she would run into the wall instead to climb 
 up, climb down when you wanted her to jump, jump left instead of up, etc. It didn't feel fluid 
 or smooth.
  
  Third, boy did they strip out a lot of extra stuff. The cutscenes were the bare minimum, no interaction 
 with the other characters during levels like in the previous 2 games made by the same people. And 
 the "treasures" were just laying around and WAY too many - I gave up even caring about 1/2 way 
 thru, not even bothering to pick them up.
  
  Based on how good the same company made the last 2 Tomb Raider games, this game feels rushed out 
 the door and incomplete before the final polish was put on. Really no excuse for that bad camera 
 in a game focused on jumping around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: future16
Rating: 4
Date: Feb 28, 2009 3:17 pm PT
Review:  ok well i finally played this game and to be honest i aint happy... i was so excited wen this was 
 released and like i said i waited for months with much anticipation to play this and for what.... 
 This shld have never even been comisioned to be made im bein serious the story is stale, the gameplay 
 is dire, and as for glitches and grapical problems there is loads ..
  Lets start with the story (this will be quick) tomb raider is dead, the story to round it up its 
 rubish.
  Next the gameplay i dnt really know wat it is but i just didnt enjoy it kinda just didnt work mite 
 just be me lol. It just felt rushed.
  Now glitches... Well i play a lot of games but its very rare i notice glitches i usually here about 
 them from some 1 else ,but this game they were rite in my face i got stuck in floors upto my waist 
 , jamed in walls .. bassically theres loads and there anoyin lol
  
  Well to round up , i was gutted but thats just me and in my opinion i hope they never make a tomb 
 raider again. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Grizzel
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 28, 2009 10:26 am PT
Review:  It's a overall good game. Classic Tomb Raider with the unlocks and hidden features. They could 
 have made it so much better with the graphics though. The game crashes when playing and if you 
 don't create manual saves, you will lose progress with auto save. The storyline is great and the 
 way it all unfolds is all great. They could have done something with the camera as well. Some of 
 the views has Lara disappear, and it doesn't allow you to jump certain ways because of this. Making 
 it extremely aggravating falling 10 feet to the floor and you die. And with no trophys or any reward 
 for completing everything its hard to be eager to do so. All Relics do nothing, they just tell 
 how many you have found. Lara's guns are so weak... its like shooting an elephant with a bb gun. 
 but I'm a huge tomb raider fan so I still can look past the flaws because it's a great franchise. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metalwitch
Rating: 5
Date: Jan 14, 2009 3:40 pm PT
Review:  I myself being a loyal Tomb Raider fan, I found this game lacking in story mode as well as having 
 no motivation in collecting relics.
  In the older versions of TR it had a brief explanation of what the relic was and how it fit into 
 the game or story mode making it more fun to find relics or least finding the motivation to look 
 for them. The other thig totally annoyed me was the camera gliches that we have seen in all other 
 TR games, you would think that the developers would have at least taken the time to correct these 
 even before making Lara doing the fancy flips. As to the walk through guide, don't even waste money 
 on buying it because the instructions are so confusing that you end up just going through the game 
 with out even taking out the book, or goole it to find in any info. Now the worse part of all of 
 this was the ending, there was no big battle, no big bang, no nothing. I mean there has to be a 
 final battle with a big boss to make the whole game memorable! I have to say that I am very dissappointed 
 with the game overall, and I can't wait to trade it in. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sokol4ever
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 14, 2009 8:21 am PT
Review:  Tomb Raider Underworld is the 3rd title from Crystal Dynamics and the fans of the series and story 
 will have good times taking our favorite Lara through few challenging and sometimes puzzling environments.
 
  
  Underworld continue the story of Lara looking for truth about her mother happenings as well as 
 following in her fathers footsteps. 
  
  What I really liked the most has to be the music score. The whole time the music offers excellent 
 feel and atmosphere, especially during actions sequences. As usual, Tomb Raider is all about puzzle 
 solving and platforming with occasional action and little cinematic. 
  Platforming can be tedious a little especially once you move up into later levels. Options menu 
 offer very good helping advice as to what to do next and I'm very glad they included it since I 
 have gotten stuck quite a few times.
  
  Giving advice is one thing in Tomb Raider Underworld, however the game is not always clear enough 
 where you should proceed next. Because of this I have spent quite a few hours and many "trials 
 and errors" until I was able to move on with the game progression. 
  This is probably the biggest remark I can find with the game. 
  The game does a fantastic job 
 on saving your progress, so even when you do unnecessary die you will restart very close to last 
 checkpoint which is indicated by little save sound quite often.
  
  For the multiplatform game Underworld looks very well. The only slowdown I experienced was during 
 one missions where storm lighting was slowing down the frame-rates a little. Other then that, the 
 game runs smooth on PS3.
  I was also surprised how fast the game loads and there are no installations required on Hard-Drive 
 this time around.
  The game isn't very long I finished in on normal difficulty in about 10 hours while visiting locations 
 from Thailand and Mexico in search of Thor's gauntlets, belt and hammer.
  The game does suffer from few bugs here and there, like stumbling upon regular environment and 
 Lara will stop responding to your controls once in a while. Usually if you pull out your guns and 
 jump it will let you move again. 
  
  After you finish the game you can re-play all the levels as treasure hunter collecting all the 
 missed items if you desire.
  
  Overall, I was pleased with the game, I enjoyed the story which makes much more sense if you're 
 the follower of previous titles, good graphics followed up by very good music score, smart puzzles 
 and good voice acting make this Lara adventure enjoyable but not without frustrating parts which 
 are mostly tied to finding the proper way to your goal.
  It's still very possible to navigate your objectives but it will take time, patience and quite 
 a few trial and errors until the final scene. 
  
  
  I would definitely recommend latest Lara Croft adventure to any fan of the series even though the 
 game could use little polish and some kind of assistance in level progression. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: benleslie5
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 10, 2009 11:11 am PT
Review:  For many years the Tomb Raider series has always been a big icon for gamers and most of you know 
 that Lara Croft is one of the best female game charcters in Gaiming History. For new gamers Tomb 
 Raider series is mostly an action-adventure filled with puzzles and fantasy fiction like looking 
 artifacts like the sword of exlauibur or Thors Hammer.
  
  But the story for Underworld takes place just after Tomb Raider Legend left off if you have played 
 it. At the beginning of the game you'll be confussed on what on earth is going on first Croft Manor 
 is in flames. 
  After going through the tutorial level in the burning house of croft manor, you'll be sent back 
 a week early before Croft Manor was in flames and what Lara was doing before then and it starts 
 at the parfic ocean where your looking for information on Thor's Hammer which is a Vikings Myth 
 and have to swim at the bottom of the sea to find the temple and getting rid of the kraken which 
 is a giant octopuss.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played through Tomb Raider Legend or a Tomb Raider game either on the PS. 
 You'll probably notice the controls but the gameplay controls are pretty simular to Tomb Raider 
 Legend. Most puzzles in Underworld look the same as Legend but there are many locations like Mexico, 
 Thailand or Arctic. Most puzzles are easy to do, but some will require to think more. During combat 
 you can use guns to shoot enimies or a machine gun if you take out the enimies. 
  
  Also in Tomb Raider Underworld it has few button mashing elements and re-action commends if you 
 have played through Tomb Raider Legend or Resident Evil 4 you'll know what I meant, like quickly 
 press X to jump over the heavey machine or your gonna fall of a ledge.
  
  Graphics and Sound: Graphics are pretty much the same from Tomb Raider Legend but abit clearer 
 if you own a PS3 with high defanition sounding as well. The locations for Underworld are impressive 
 the first level in the Parfic Ocean is impressive where you need to dive and swim deeper and deeper 
 to get to the temple.
  
  Vocing is much the same as Legend, Lara's voice hasn't changed but most Tomb Raider games have 
 always been british so nothing wroung with that at least. Music is decent as well but esle much 
 through out the game on sounding and graphics.
  
  Overall: The only thing I found annoying on Underworld was the camera control because there were 
 times were the camrea can really annoy while you trying to get across an obsitcle or blasting your 
 guns through enimies. I've enjoy Tomb Raider Underworld once again the game feels really short 
 like the last Tomb Raider game but still fun to play. Odds are that most people would try and get 
 all treasure items in underworld on throphies of they update Tomb Raider Underworld on PS3. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lynchmisfit99
Rating: 6.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 1:00 pm PT
Review:  After playing last year's Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, I couldn't help but be eager to play Tomb 
 Raider: Underworld. Well, I have to say I was disappointed, but at the same time, the finish to 
 the game was fantastic for an otherwise okay game. Taking place not long after Legend, Underworld 
 concludes the story that began in Legend.
  
  Last we saw Lara, she claimed Excalibur and saw her mother in Avalon. Now she's off in search of 
 another mythical artifact in hopes of actually finding her mother, in this case the mythical artifact 
 is Thor's hammer. After the brief tutorial level where Lara's manor blows up, the first actual 
 level takes place underwater in the Mediterranean Sea. From there you'll also visit Central American 
 ruins, the Arctic Sea, as well as the fabled place known as Avalon.
  
  In this regard, it sounds great, and although the story only progressed early on via pre & post 
 mission cutscenes, it was pretty good. Its the gameplay where the disappointment stems. Where in 
 Legend, Lara felt very good to control, almost Prince of Persia-like, here in Underworld, she doesn't 
 have that fluid feel. Her platforming animations were pretty canned. Perhaps Uncharted spoiled 
 me with its fluid and realistic animations, but Lara's platforming here was not that good. Seeing 
 her shimmy along ledges and jump to another one, seeing her jumping in shimmy position just looks 
 bad. And it doesn't help that there are a number of graphical glitches, where Lara will get stuck 
 in the environment (happened to me in the tutorial level?!) . Not what I was hoping for after the 
 great return in Legend. Otherwise, most of the levels were just okay, they didn't really have a 
 great feel to them that made them really memorable. Not until the last two levels.
  
  
  All in all it was a decent game. It's just hard to recommend it for a full purchase. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 8
Date: Jan 3, 2009 7:22 am PT
Review:  Lara Croft is one of a dying breed of video game icons from the mid 90s. She was once seen as a 
 pin-up for PlayStation and helped convince thousands (if not millions) of gamers that they needed 
 to ditch their 16-bit consoles in favour of a shinier, more powerful 32-bit monster. Needless to 
 say, the rest is history, with Tomb Raider now standing as one of the most popular video game series 
 ever created. After the critically mauled Tomb Raider: Angel of Darkness, developer Crystal Dynamics 
 took the reigns and has returned Lara to her glory days. With Underworld being the most ambitious 
 title in the series to date, is it three for three for Lara's saviours?
  
  Underworld centres on Lara's quest for Thor's hammer, the Norse god's hugely powerful weapon. After 
 discovering proof of the Norse underworld at the bottom of the Mediterranean sea, Lara starts an 
 adventure that takes her all over the world and into her own family history. It's a truly epic 
 journey (certainly one of the longer games to arrive in this busy release period) , with the game 
 offering the kind of adventuring Tomb Raider made its name from and some solid combat thrown in 
 for good measure.
  
  Anyone who has played either Legend or Anniversary will know roughly what to expect in terms of 
 core gameplay. Lara is as nimble as ever, jumping from perilous ledge to crumbling platform as 
 if she's still in her late teens, swinging from poles, balancing on beams and abseiling down walls 
 without a second thought. It's all part of the job, and for the most part comes effortlessly. Lara 
 seems a better mover all-round, and can now handily wall jump between two vertical surfaces - something 
 you should bear in mind when a certain platform or pole seems tantalisingly out of reach.
  
  Also new is Lara's ability to free-climb. It's not quite as amazing as it sounds (you can't 
 climb up anything) , but certain walls have a series of hand holds on them, allowing you to climb 
 without leaping from one ledge to another. This adds a sense of realism to your exploration, at 
 least visually, and again is something you need to be aware of. Just as the grappling hook, appearing 
 in a third Tomb Raider, is only now becoming a tool you expect to use and are always aware of, 
 you'll likely miss a few of these free-climb areas at first as they don't have the trademark Tomb 
 Raider ledge appearance we've become so accustomed to. 
  
  Developer Crystal Dynamics has really gone to town with massive caves and underground worlds to 
 explore. At times you'll enter an area with a lever, only to return to it hours later after finally 
 managing to retrieve whatever missing artefact was needed to get it working. You'll walk into rooms 
 so large you won't know where to begin, with part of the fun coming from figuring out what you 
 need to do to get to the various key locations. There are puzzles in Underworld (with some requiring 
 a fair amount of thought, the use of blocks, your grappling hook and cogs, to hint at just a few) , 
 but successfully jumping, shimmying, sliding, climbing and wall jumping your way to platforms often 
 just out of reach is the real challenge.
  
  At times you'll think you've done all you can, explored every nook and cranny, and leapt to your 
 death numerous times in the search of that platform that might lead you to safety, only to catch 
 a glimpse of a half-broken ledge on the hidden side of a pillar. With a potential way out spotted, 
 you just have to navigate around the environment (easier said than done) and then make your way 
 to safety. It's worth pointing out that you'll encounter a few annoying bugs (notably one that 
 causes Lara to become immobile for a short time) and you'll occasionally accidentally leap off 
 a ledge in the wrong direction - something that the camera often tries to make worse by refusing 
 to allow you to get the desired shot of the action. Still, for the most part you'll be enjoying 
 what are some of the most well designed levels we've seen in the Tomb Raider series.
  
  Combat thankfully plays second fiddle to exploration. It's by no means bad, with Lara able to target 
 and even focus shoot enemies in the head for instant kills, but she just doesn't seem at home doing 
 somersaults while firing pistols. Also making a reappearance is the bike from Legend. Thankfully 
 it handles far better here and is only used as a means to get from location to location rather 
 than having levels dedicated to it. Later levels have an almost free-roaming feel to them, with 
 Lara able to bike around the environment, leaving it behind when entering buildings. It's a nice 
 touch and gives the game a great sense of scale.
  
  A much talked about feature is the tips system, which dishes out a clue or a much more blatant 
 piece of advice at the touch of a button. In our experience these tips have mixed rates of success, 
 with our struggles often coming not because we didn't know what needed to be done, but how we had 
 to do it. For example, one level sees you having to find two jaguar heads. Having found one we 
 searched high and low for the second, but simply couldn't find it. The tips system told us that 
 we needed to find the two jaguar heads and place them on two dials at either ends of a massive 
 room. Not much help really. It turned out that we'd managed to miss the first jaguar head which 
 was located at the start of the level.
  
  Something else we found to be a missed opportunity is the sonar map. Accessed from your PDA, this 
 nifty gadget gives you a 3D map of the surrounding area, but we couldn't find a good use for it. 
 Something you might have been expecting is the ability to take pictures and share them with friends 
 (perhaps even showing them the location of hidden gems) , but this sadly didn't make it in.
  
  We've had some great looking games over the past year or so, and Underworld is on par with 
 some of the best. Lara herself looks superb, the environments are massive, the detail is hugely 
 impressive and the lighting is wonderful. Comparisons are bound to be made to Naughty Dog's PS3 
 exclusive Uncharted, and from a visual stand point Underworld certainly doesn't come off as second 
 best. If anything, Lara's latest offers a more diverse range of environments to play in. Even the 
 underwater sections look great (and thankfully control well too) .
  
  Much of the wow factor comes from the colossal structures you'll come across and the many massive 
 statues that adorn rooms. If there's a disappointment it's the lack of many epic monsters. The 
 Kraken that has been seen in the pre-release media is a sight to behold and a highlight from the 
 first few hours of the game, but apart from that you'll mainly come across creatures that are large 
 for their species (big spiders and lizards mainly) rather than being giants. It's really only a 
 slight niggle, with the levels themselves providing more than enough spectacle on their own.
  
  Lara is once again voiced perfectly by the lovely Keeley Hawes, and the supporting cast doesn't 
 do a bad job either, with many familiar characters returning. We'd go as far as to say the storytelling 
 here is the best it's been in the series to date, and the ending is both satisfying and open for 
 further games in the series. Xbox 360 owners get Achievements, making gem collecting all the more 
 worthwhile, but sadly PS3 owners don't get trophies - hopefully this is something developer Crystal 
 Dynamics can add at a later date.
  
  Tomb Raider: Underworld is a visually stunning, epic adventure that continues Crystal Dynamics' 
 excellent run. We reckon it's the best completely original Tomb Raider (Anniversary was, of course, 
 a remake) we've had in years, and is only let down by the odd control quirk and camera issue. If 
 you're looking for a game heavy on exploration instead of gun-play and don't mind looking at a 
 finely toned arse for 12 or more hours, Underworld comes highly recommended.
  
  Overall 8/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bleigh316
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jan 1, 2009 11:38 am PT
Review:  After playing last year's Uncharted: Drake's Fortune, I couldn't help but be eager to play Tomb 
 Raider: Underworld. Well, I have to say I was disappointed, but at the same time, the finish to 
 the game was fantastic for an otherwise okay game. Taking place not long after Legend, Underworld 
 concludes the story that began in Legend.
  
  Last we saw Lara, she claimed Excalibur and saw her mother in Avalon. Now she's off in search of 
 another mythical artifact in hopes of actually finding her mother, in this case the mythical artifact 
 is Thor's hammer. After the brief tutorial level where Lara's manor blows up, the first actual 
 level takes place underwater in the Mediterranean Sea. From there you'll also visit Central American 
 ruins, the Arctic Sea, as well as the fabled place known as Avalon.
  
  In this regard, it sounds great, and although the story only progressed early on via pre & post 
 mission cutscenes, it was pretty good. Its the gameplay where the disappointment stems. Where in 
 Legend, Lara felt very good to control, almost Prince of Persia-like, here in Underworld, she doesn't 
 have that fluid feel. Her platforming animations were pretty canned. Perhaps Uncharted spoiled 
 me with its fluid and realistic animations, but Lara's platforming here was not that good. Seeing 
 her shimmy along ledges and jump to another one, seeing her jumping in shimmy position just looks 
 bad. And it doesn't help that there are a number of graphical glitches, where Lara will get stuck 
 in the environment (happened to me in the tutorial level?!) . Not what I was hoping for after the 
 great return in Legend. Otherwise, most of the levels were just okay, they didn't really have a 
 great feel to them that made them really memorable. Not until the last two levels.
  
  The gameplay hasn't changed much at all compared to previous Tomb Raider entries. You'll still 
 engage in some platforming, gunplay combat against random mercenaries or beasts, and puzzle solving. 
 The puzzles here were pretty good (I think the giant Shiva statue was my favorite one) , and not 
 all that difficult. The combat was okay, but that's not a big part of the Tomb Raider formula. 
 One other little thing that's missing from Legend is Lara can't pick up weapons anymore. In Legend 
 she picked up guns from fallen enemies, but here in Underworld, she has her pistols like always, 
 but you can just switch here alternate weapon at will, taking away that great realistic touch that 
 Legend had. So while this and the animations are little things, seeing as the previous games had 
 them in, their omissions here are bizarre and upsetting. Still, the gameplay is still the same, 
 and its still fun, although the most fun I had came in the last two levels when you get to wield 
 the mighty Thor's hammer, oh so much fun.
  
  Graphically everything still looks nice. Lara spends alot of time underground here, hence Underworld. 
 But also she spends a decent amount of time underwater, which was very cool. The levels all looked 
 nice and had a good feel to them. Lara also still looks good, and you can still see everything 
 on her digital self, which I really like, since it gives it that touch of reality. The other major 
 characters that show up also look good, as that hasn't changed. On the audio end, the voices for 
 Lara and characters that return from Legend and Anniversary are still voiced well by their respective 
 voice actors. And they still do a fine job.
  
  Honestly, I was disappointed with Underworld until I obtained Thor's Hammer. Being able to use 
 it the last two levels earned Underworld that extra half point. It was still good throughout, but 
 all those little details that were in Legend that are missing here, and were in last year's excellent 
 Uncharted, detract enough for me that I was disappointed with Underworld. 
  
  Still, it was a pretty good game with some great moments throughout, especially the last two levels. 
 And while those details annoyed me and took some of my enjoyment away, it may not for everyone. 
 I was disappointed that Tomb Raider: Underworld was a step down from the superior Tomb Raider: 
 Legend. If Lara returns, here's hoping its closer to Legend, as while Underworld was good, it could've 
 been a lot better. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pigsybum
Rating: 6
Date: Dec 30, 2008 6:38 am PT
Review:  So here comes the next tomb raider game, all i have to say is that it's all flashy and the gameplay 
 elements are just not refined. A lot of the time, you would find yourself stuck to the game, only 
 able to continue after u referred to walkthroughs on youtube. Sometimes you would be wondering 
 what this game has to offer to make you complete it. You could collect diamonds, artefacts throughout 
 the game, but it doesn't award you with anything, worse yet they built some ground for these collectibles 
 which were better left without. The tips they gave you were very general and were not much help 
 to the game, killing tigers and sharks seems more like a chore than fun.
  
  Graphics:
  The only motivation to complete the game is probably just to look at lara croft in action. That 
 said, what i meant was that the graphics is brilliant. The lightings are top-notched, the water 
 looks reflective, and caves looks as dark as ever. 
  
  Sure you do get one of the best graphics games has to offer, but this game also offers you framerate 
 issues (lag) which is also a game killer. It is even more evident when sunlight shine directly on 
 you with a dark background. Even playing through the game, it's clear that the framerate is a constant 
 low 20s.
  
  Cutscenes are very enjoyable, they're breaks for me when i cracked my head to solve a puzzle, it's 
 also when the story unfolds. The funny thing though, lara croft tries to act as a narrative by 
 talking to herself, perhaps she was recording what she found? If you like beautiful visuals, this 
 game wouldn't disappoint but sometimes you would encounter low resolution rocks especially in dark 
 places.
  
  Gameplay:
  The combat is as good as none, killing tigers or sharks doesn't award you with anything but to 
 save your life and also irritation by the tiger claws. There's a good arsenal of weapons, from 
 unlimited pistols to shotguns, uzi, assault rifles. But like i said, the combat are there just 
 to accompany the environment and sometimes resistance by the enemies.
  
  Platforming is a love or hate in this game. It provides enough challange to give you a good headache, 
 some like it, i dislike it because it's not exactly challange, they could ask you to find a nut 
 in a open sea, which i deem as crazy. It's sometimes about spotting the only ladder, or asking 
 you find certains items in a large area. There's tips for you, but they only provide information 
 like what to find, which u probably could figure out yourself. I would love the game more if only 
 they let me have the mirror's edge tips system, where they face ur camera angle to the objective.
 
  
  The motobike lara rides looks and handles like "The Dark Knight" batpod, the tires are so stick 
 and the engine sounds like it has 300 horsepower yet it accelerates slows are doesn't manuver too 
 well.
  
  Audio:
  Dialogues from lara sounds sweet like in a real lara croft movie. The water effects and fire sounds 
 good enough. Gunfire is what sounds best throughout the movie. Also there's background music especially 
 on the last stage, it could hear it so loud what i switched off my subwoofer. There's only a few 
 charactors in the game, each of them sounds good enough. When lara is falling/jumping or trying 
 to climb up an edge, she does output sounds like "arggg", which sort of add more atmosphere to 
 the game.
  
  Conclusion:
  Tomb Raider: Underworld is certainly a game made for fans, it doesn't introduce enough new elements. 
 The shooting feels redundant and platforming is frustrating. It certainly isn't a game for me. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Evilmititis
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 28, 2008 4:41 pm PT
Review:  I was very impressed with this game.
  Crystal Dynamics did right by lara in this game.
  
  
  The graphics in this game were truly AMAZING throughout!
  loads of rich detail, such beautiful 
 environments, and the characters were all enhanced from the last two games...
  The lighting system was spectacular and the lush environments felt so real. Lara has never looked 
 so amazing! The detail and structure of her face was wonderful, and her body was very realistic 
 is shape and movement. She is utterly beautiful! Fabulous if I might add, and now she looks as 
 though she is ultra athletic. The textures and the expansion of the levels through out the game 
 really brought Tomb Raider Underworld to life. I love the little things, like the birds who fly 
 off from Lara's presence, her brushing the leaves out over her way, and covering her face from 
 dangerous elements. The great game play style is unique compared to many other games, although 
 still like the other Crystal Dynamic Tomb Raiders. The story is very interesting, and now the remake 
 makes much more sense on why they remade it. There was a point to it actually being made. It takes 
 paying attention to, and for those who don't appreciate watching the cut scenes, you are sure to 
 miss out. It isn't really a complicated plot, but is really one to twist and turn about till the 
 end.
  
  I really enjoyed just playing it over and over and over, listening to the spectacular music which 
 I thought was really dead on with this TR (which is a trademark to the tomb raider series) . The 
 game play was really stimulating, and fun, and not to hard or easy. It did get frustrating at some 
 points, but that happens in all games, and it rarely happened throughout TRU. The fact that the 
 game was not revolving around combat was a real plus for the Tomb Raider series, it was a wonderful 
 direction for CD to go. Solving puzzles was much more interesting than making this over complicated 
 battle system (filling you up with irritation and frustration) to complete a scene or environment. 
 The series was based off of puzzle solving, with having a simple battle system as a filler, which 
 I always found to be just fine. The combat aspect is far over used and it's all becoming a blur 
 in every video game being sold. ESPECIALLY, the ones who's whole came play is strictly combat (gets 
 boring after a while, and you can only play a combat game for so long before it sits on a shelf 
 from there on out... *DEAD SPACE, CAUGH-CAUGH*) .
  
  Well, about the battle system, in comparison to the previous Tomb Raider games, it is heavily improved. 
 I found myself less frustrated after battles. Never did I find lara flinging to the opposite sides 
 of the room numerous times, Lara taking her time to get back to her feet.
  This time, if knocked down, she gets right back up, and it's not hard to get her to do so, and 
 she never goes flying 20 feet anymore. and the aiming system is more enhanced. Just because Tomb 
 Raider doesn't directly mimic every war game or first person shooter out there, doesn't mean that 
 the combat is bad either, it is pretty fun. I enjoyed the placement and style of the combat, it 
 was just enough without being overwhelming. It stayed clear of the more important portions of the 
 game.
  
  on the down side,
  the Camera and the strange unexpected actions of lara through out can become irritating or just 
 make you pause every once in a while, I won't lie about that. But for the most part, never have 
 I come across a random camera error or lara action which threw me off, drove me mad, or challenged 
 my advancement through the game. If you hear otherwise, it's a load of crap, and the person just 
 didn't like the game, last couple of TR games or series itself. Tomb Raider is a love it or hate 
 it type of game, due to it's unique gaming style. 
  That is all for my complaint on this game, and it definitely wasn't enough to hurt my review for 
 it, it was merely notable. 
  
  The game is amazing and very much terribly under rated by too many (including gamespot) ... 
  
 
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Bars17x
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 24, 2008 12:46 pm PT
Review:  This game was most likely going to get a decent score from me. I love TR - mainly the first one 
 which I still play every few years. The series has consistently gotten worse with each incarnation. 
 I never played TR Legend although I heard it was miles ahead of the pathetic nature of TR-6. I 
 really didn't enjoy the anniversary TR either and still find the first one to be miles ahead of 
 ALL successors. 
  
  So why have I mercilessly torched this game? Plain and simple, I couldn't finish it. NOT because 
 I couldn't figure it out  but because a MAJOR bug made completing the game IMPOSSIBLE. Now if 
 this bug had been earlier in the game.. it may have been less crippling, but it is quite a ways 
 removed from the early game. In the beginning of the Mexico level, if you happen to explore the 
 area out of pre-determined sequence, you will encounter this random bug several hours later that 
 prevents you from progressing. As in, a bridge which should be up is collapsed making the crossing 
 thereof impossible. I spent about 2 hours trying to figure this crap out before I looked online 
 to realize in absolute horror that I was screwed.
  
  Being the fool that I am, I didn't clutter my PS3's storage with mindless extra saves as the autosave 
 was working fine. Oops. And unlike the first TR, there is no restart level option. So guess I have 
 to START THE ENTIRE GAME OVER, which I don't plan on doing.
  
  The levels that I played were beautiful, and designed great (which is the only reason I didn't 
 give it a 1) . Too bad technical issues will prevent me from finishing anytime soon as I don't have 
 the time, nor the patience to replay the first half of the game again.
  
  This game was not tested properly if such a horrible bug could have made it into the final product 
  that is what I call sloppy.
  Nobody should have to check out walkthroughs before playing a game just to avoid bugs.
  
  On 
 the plus side, this experience has gotten me to open up TR 1 again this holiday season, so for 
 that, I am thankful.
  
  I would still recommend this game to TR fans; it has the potential to be fun, and I'll probably 
 try again someday just make sure you are well aware of the bug before you start.
  
  Here is a Link on how to avoid getting stuck: http://www. eidosinteractive. co. uk/support/faqinfo. html? fqid=426&gmid=215
 
  
  Too bad that wasn't on the box I spent 70 bucks for.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: burock76
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 4:07 am PT
Review:  Although being a huge fan of the series I have not found the will to play either Anniversary nor 
 the Legend. But this time around I had to give it a chance since the movies, trailers, teasers 
 showed promise. 
  First of all it is really obvious from the first seconds of the game that it was designed to give 
 you the same feelings as the first game did. More exploration, less fighting, more puzzle solving, 
 less cut-scenes. Epic environments, great scale and lush graphics. Lara is beautiful as ever and 
 now that an amateur athlete has modeled for mo-cap sequences the animation is the best I've seen 
 in the series. There are very few cut-scenes which in a way is good, doesn't take away that action 
 element. The puzzles are enormous, some of which will take approximately 2 hours to complete. The 
 game certainly aims for an epic scale about everything including graphics and puzzles. But still 
 something is missing. Whether it is the feeling of loneliness or that epic scale that the developers 
 went for. You can't help but feel that the game is somewhat empty. It is just you, a few enemies 
 (animals from the wilderness or humans) and huge puzzles. And of course there is that big issue 
 about the camera angles. This has been mentioned on other reviews and I thought them to be a little 
 harsh, but as you go along you feel that the camera angles would be better with a little bit more 
 work. Sometimes it gets to the point that you can't see yourself or see the path you are supposed 
 to follow.
  But for all the effort, quality of graphics and the intention of making this game like the original 
 has resulted in a enjoyable game that brings back good memories. It is not a must buy but if you 
 are a fan and you want to explore huge environments you could give it a chance. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: twistedray
Rating: 5
Date: Dec 22, 2008 12:06 am PT
Review:  Lets start with the good. The graphics are very pretty and realistic. Lara actually shows dirt on 
 her skin when she gets dirty (diving in water will clean you off and you can see the beads of water 
 rolling off of her) The combat is fairly easy once you get the hang of it and the puzzles are fun 
 while not being to hard. Now for the bad. First the controls seem worse that the previous games. 
 Many times you will tell lara to do one thing and instead she'll do something completely different 
 usually resulting in your death. Then the camera is pitiful. There are many times you will have a 
 hard time seeing where you are supposed to go because the camera wants to zoom up on lara instead 
 of the scenery or where you're facing. The game itself is very short (only six levels) and the story 
 isn't all that interesting. There are very few enemies compared to last games and not a single boss 
 fight or cool looking death animation. (all you get is the limp doll effect no matter how you die) Finally 
 there is absolutely no unlockable content for the ps3 version. Xbox gets achievements and even a 
 new outfit for beating the game. This wouldn't be so bad except the ps3 is also being screwed out 
 of downloadable content! Thats right, only xbox will get new outfits and even entire BRAND NEW LEVELS 
 for the game. Apparently Crystal Dynamics sold out to Microsoft with a deal to only allow xbox with 
 extra content. (I guess xbox is finally viewing ps3 as a threat or something) That being said once 
 you beat the game there really is nothing to look foward to so replay value is slim to non-existant. Worth 
 playing if you're a fan but definately as a rental. Hopefully the next one will seriously make up 
 for this one. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UlTimatelee
Rating: 6.5
Date: Dec 20, 2008 7:32 pm PT
Review:  After getting POP at the same time as this game honestly i would give this a 10! Haha POP is so 
 bad- But neways, this game has its charms, graphics are nice- it has its really pretty moments 
 and i did enjoy the water levels:)
  Other than that it did have a few points in the game that were dumb. Some things werent as obvious 
 as i thought they'd be and some other parts were so obvious it was too easy... I have had alot of 
 fun playing this game thou and well even thou in my opinion the story wasnt so great, it still 
 kept me somewhat interested. Would have liked more things to kill- big cats and silly spiders didnt 
 really do it for me that much- but was still alot more excting than killin the same dudes over 
 and over in POP! This game doesnt go for too long so make sure you do try and drag it out by lookin 
 for all the artifacts and relics. As far as replay value im not sure- i guess if i had to suggest 
 nething maybe rent this game on a friday night with some friends and play it all night and the 
 next day- probably wouldnt even take that long to finish it thou- least then you could say you've 
 played it- as far as buying it? I bought it and i dont feel as ripped off as i feel buying POP- 
 but then i wonder how i would have felt had i actually bought a good game and then compared it 
 to this.... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: geekchic1985
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 18, 2008 9:02 am PT
Review:  The story for this chapter of the Tomb Raider saga sees Lara in search of a means to enter Avalon 
 and the Norse Underworld of Niflheim. [believed to be one in the same] As the story progresses, 
 Lara finds artefacts belonging the Norse God Thor that will in turn grant her entry to Niflheim. 
 This adventure sees Lara traverse the globe from the Mediterranean Sea, Thailand, Croft Manor, 
 Mexico and the Arctic Sea. With the use of such lavish locations, the developers were hard pushed 
 to offer the players a true Next Gen Tomb Raider game. One means of doing so was to use these environments 
 as an "interactive world that reacts and remembers" supposedly in place to act as a form of navigational 
 tool for the player. The engine also allows Lara to react in a more realistic manner with her environment, 
 such as pushing foliage aside with one or two hands depending on whether or not she has a gun equipped. 
 The environment can also be Lara's downfall as the weather affects the characteristics of the ground, 
 such as rain making the ground slippery. These aspects were not overly notable whilst playing the 
 game. Any changes in the physics of the land with regards to weather were not significantly evident 
  even frost was not enough to deter Lara's motorbike off course  and as such raise the question 
 as to whether they are entirely necessary to the game's playability or [sceptically] if they are 
 even there at all.
  
  Some interesting mechanics that do feature highly in the game play are that of the expanded use 
 of the grappling hook and the new melee combat system as part of a system to interlink the several 
 aspects of game play. Previously, climbing, shooting and the solving of puzzles would all be handled 
 separately and infrequently overlapped. As a result to rectify that in this chapter, Lara can now 
 use her grappling hook to pull items in order to solve puzzles as well as using melee attacks to 
 distance Lara from her attackers. These new mechanics, although integral to the game play and an 
 excellent utilisation of Lara's skills, they are not without fault. No clear targeting system means 
 that if more than two items on screen are able to use the grappling hook, then it can become confusing 
 trying to successfully latch onto the correct item. Another new feature that is easily ignorable 
 is the new adrenaline feature that sees the standard QTE replaced with a slowing down of time to 
 allow the player to react to imminent danger. This adrenaline moments can be triggered both automatically 
  if a key aspect of the level design requires accurate timing, then the game play slows down automatically 
  and manually  adrenaline builds up during gunfire and engaging with enemies allowing the manual 
 triggering of adrenaline moments throughout the game.
  
  Puzzles are the game's key aspect. In fact it can be said that it is the games only aspect. Working 
 through the game, it appeared that there were only two "boss fights", neither of which included 
 much engaging with the "boss" but instead required the solving of a more elaborate puzzle. These 
 more elaborate puzzles were not even more complex in difficulty, but merely took longer to solve 
 and as such detracted from the sense of accomplishment that you may have from physically taking 
 down the enemy at hand. Instead, your only involvement is that of pulling switches or moving block 
 until a cut scene kicks in and the enemy is taken down whilst you merely watch in marvel and awe. 
 The most bizarre aspect to this game was that the first puzzle remained to be the most challenging, 
 trying to locate a third crank to open the initial door. Ironically enough however, this was not 
 in itself a gruelling task, just one that required ignoring the in game monologue that is designed 
 to be helpful. [more on that later]
  
  Although the game is subsequently easy and requires a minimal amount of skill, there are times 
 when you may pause as you reflect what is required of you next. At these moments, there is the 
 option to use Lara's internal monologue that acts as a snippet of information to guide you through 
 to the next part of the level. However, this information is usually unnecessary, as it will merely 
 confirm what to do next instead of how. Annoyingly, Lara will inform you that you need to get back 
 to the start of the room, something you already figured out instead of highlighting any helpful 
 means in how to do so.
  
  The game however is not an entire bust. Granted the game is not the most challenging of games, 
 as well as there being the traditional camera glitches, but it is truly a beautiful game. Even 
 on the standard definition television used to play this game, the textures were simply stunning 
 and made the game extremely immersive. On a high definition television, the graphics will be even 
 more impressive, coming somewhere notably close to that of Naughty Dog's Uncharted: Drake's Fortune. 
 It is true that the Tomb Raider franchise had been falling into a decline over the previous years, 
 however Underworld has shown that Eidos is not willing to give up just yet as the game claws back 
 to somewhere closer to where the franchise should be. And with the loose ends all tied up for now, 
 it is possible for the game to move forward in a new direction and become the game it once was.
 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KoolGam3rKiiD
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 12, 2008 8:53 pm PT
Review:  I am a big fan of the Tomb Raider series. I may have strated off at Legend and Anniversary but 
 I got on time at the right time. But anyway Tomb raider underworld was a very good game. I would 
 not say its a short game unless you are a type of person that has to play a game straight through 
 without stoppoing and that is how a game tends to go fast. But most importantly what new story 
 was added into the story line.  That's Old. Their should have been 
 new characters with a diffrent type of storyline. Maybe the game would have ended up as a 10 (my 
 opinion) But it didnt so I just have to deal with it. I can go with that storyline though it is 
 good. The details of the game was very good but something that agitates me was the puzzels in the 
 ocean!!!!! That was so annoying. The ocean was so wide but I managed to acheive my missions without 
 game faqs^.^ 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DarylJ100
Rating: 10
Date: Dec 10, 2008 4:51 pm PT
Review:  This Series of the tomb raider is the best of them all better obstacles and better skills to reach 
 obstacles. The graphics is amazing but there is a lot of glitches in the game for example when 
 you up to a tiger you have just killed you will walk right through it :s pretty weired. And there 
 is a few probles with the camera somtimes when your close to a wall and try and make the camera 
 so you look in front of you it will start jumping and going crazy it did go on my neurfs but the 
 game is brilliant that did not make me put the gane off and play another game. I have always been 
 a fan of tomb raider played them all just love them. If you like puzzles and adventure and shooting 
 games you must get this game its one of the best adventure games you will ever buy and you will 
 not be dissapointed with the game for three reasons 1. the controll is simple ....... 2. The stroy 
 is brilliant......... 3. The game is hard to it will take some time basiclly the game is very challenging. 
 You must get this game if you like game like metal gear solid , prince of percia ect same stuff 
 but better adventure than the both. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: keith_cobra
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 9, 2008 10:48 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Underworld was a good game. The incredible graphics & gameplay. I really enjoy it. 
 
  
  But the bad is about the story. It didn't move any forward on the main story. 
  
  U ran around the world and didn't got anything in the end. (even a Ending movie!) Is make me very 
 disappointed. Maybe the team try to make the Tomb Raider series keep going, so make no a real ending 
 in each game. But I don't think it is work. Even U make the full ending of each game. U still can 
 make another chapter. The good example is "Bio Hazard series". Each of it is a individual chapter. 
 U can get a full ending of each game. And U will waiting for the new chapter. 
  
  The story is the most important thing in the game. If the story didn't move. Why need to play the 
 new series. I can play the old game many many many time. Because the gameplay is the same!
  
  Hope the team can hear what I said.
  
  Anyway, This is a good game! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: itwiz90
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 21, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  Up until the time the GameStop clerk gave me my purchased copy of Underworld, I had not played 
 Tomb Raider since Legends. Needless to say I was a little anxious and let me tell you I am a satisfied 
 customer.
  Ms. Lara Croft is back with her same old moves and some nice new ones too. If you played any of 
 the game previously you know what to expect from this game - the camera switches 
  on you at the wrong times, a few graphical glitches here and there. I killed a guy on the big boat 
 and he died on his knees with this gruesome look on his face, it was hilarious. During certain 
 parts of the game she would pass through objects, she even kicks though them too. You'll notice 
 at time when standing on a pole she sometimes stands in the air, but that's Tomb Raider.
  
  The new field help item is a blessing and if used properly will get you out of hard to figure out 
 places (you may not need that walk-through) . The new wall climbing feature is pretty cool and 
 
  adds to the value of the game. The graphics are good but not great and if you are a fan of the 
 series, the game play will remind you of the previous games - it's like riding a bike. Good old 
 reliable Lara.
  Overall it is a good game, not great but still good and I am enjoying it and to me it is sort of 
 addicting to play it again, I find it hard to put down the controller.
  
  I rate it a 9.0 8)
  
  edited 12/21/2008
  
  This game can be very frustrating at times. 
 The camera angle changes and Lara will jump anywhere. Killing falling spiders leaves their remains 
 suspended in mid-air. EDIOS could have done a lot better, for this generation of consoles. The 
 games plays and have the same glitches as in the previous PS2 games. Come on EDIOS! Re do it and 
 make it better!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ZeroHero151
Rating: 7
Date: Dec 3, 2008 8:25 am PT
Review:  So lara must once again save the world by collecting precious artifacts and scaling walls around 
 huge ancient forgotten cities, and thats all good and fun, but here's the problem. the fighting 
 mechanic in the game basically persists of you running around in circles to avoid the enemy while 
 holding down the shoot button, yeah... i know. on top of that there are no boss battles, not even 
 at the end of the game. but the game does have its strides. the platforming in the game is absolutley 
 amazing, the puzzles are all unique and also hard and challenging, and if you ever get completley 
 stuck you can always consult your croft tech PDA for hints and straight out answers for where to 
 go next.
  
  but how long can someone really sit there and enjoy jumping from ledges and poles, no matter how 
 fun it is. the story in the game is pretty linear and straightforward, but i will say that if you 
 havent played a tomb raider game in a while your probably going to be confused about a few things, 
 although there is a previously video in the extras section, it does little to sum up whats been 
 going on.
  
  and my biggest problem with this game is the ending, becuase there basically is none, I. E. its 
 very lackluster, it just kinda ends, no big finale or climax or anything really, just roll credits.
 
  
  but the game does look amazing, gets a little glitchy towards the end, but beautiful none the less. 
 id say Edios is on the right track, they just need to do some serious work on the combat system, 
 and get some story development in there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ja5on1
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 2, 2008 6:41 am PT
Review:  Did the first Tomb Raider game hit you the same way it hit me and millions of other around the 
 world? I remember playing the original and being awestruck at the size and scale of the original 
 Tomb Raider game. Since the original, the rest of the Tomb Raider games have always left me feeling 
 a little disappointed, but this latest instalment bucks that trend nicely and brings the series 
 right back on track.
  
  Watching the Special Edition DVD that accompanies the game, you get a good understanding of how 
 much work and detail has gone into the environments and locations in Underworld. The music score 
 really makes you feel like you're in a movie and is fitting with the Underworld title - nice, dark 
 and mysterious.
  
  On the negative side, the puzzles are a little straightforward and the camera angles do get stuck 
 occasionally which can be a little frustrating. But in my opinion these are minor issues that don't 
 detract from an extremely enjoyable adventure with a very sexy looking Lara.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TXMostWanted
Rating: 7
Date: Nov 30, 2008 9:36 am PT
Review:  Even though Crystal Dynamics has reinvented the franchise only 2 years ago, the formula is already 
 showing quick aging for the great TR. Basically, if your a fan of Legend, you'll definitely want 
 to experience Underworld. Otherwise, stay away. 
  
  GOOD: the MUSIC is amazing, hands down one of my favorites in a video game.
  the GRAPHICS in 
 HD make everything look organic and real
  the PLATFORMING is some of the best that I've ever seen in any game. Period
  the ENVIORNMENTS 
 are massive and beautiful, making the journey enjoyable
  
  BAD: the STORYLINE had soooo much potential, yet CD still delivered a semi-flat plotline
  (why 
 didn't Lara get desparate to do anything for her mother that she'd endanger the
  the world, as hinted in the trailers. When characters died, their was no emotion etc)
  the GUNPLAY, 
 if anything, actually backtracks from Legend (no grappling enemies with
  your grapple gun, no knocking the enemy into the air via slide, aiming at two enemies
  with your 
 weak pistols makes the bad guys die even slower, every gun is automatically accessible and has 
 infinite ammo... so no challenge at all)
  the BUGS/GLITCHES somewhat marr the overall experience, especially when your
  riding on the bike.
 
  the REPLAY VALUE is next to none, you only unlock DVD-esque goodies like trailers
  sketches, models etc.
  
  Overall, Underworld is a good game... just not worth the $$$ right 
 now. It also hints that Tomb Raider is already needing a dramatic change for the franchise, such 
 as giving it a realistic look (sorry Lara) , a comedic yet fun storyline, new gunplay... but keep 
 the platforming and music next time around. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mattmalignancy
Rating: 6.5
Date: Nov 30, 2008 7:49 am PT
Review:  I will admit that I am very biased towards Tomb Raider. I love Core Design, the original games 
 were a thousand times better than Crystal Dynamics. But I've been more than generous with chances 
 and forgiving towards Crystal Dynamics ruining the series. I have been a Tomb Raider fan since 
 1996, so I am more accustomed to the originals. But I understand that this is ten years later and 
 the gaming industry has changed significantly. Fast-paced action games are the new thing, but Tomb 
 Raider has never been one of those games. It used to involve solving puzzles with the occasional 
 enemy. Underworld was proclaimed to be the ultimate Tomb Raider game to satisfy both new fans and 
 old. I didn't give into the hype, and originally planned on not buying Underworld because of Legend 
 and Anniversary. But eventually I gave in and picked up a copy of Underworld. The first thing I 
 noticed was that it looked exactly the same as Legend. Same Lara, same level design. Another ledge-hopping, 
 pole-swinging, grapple-lobbing waste. And I was right.
  
  Fans have complained back and forth and side to side about the ledge climbing, particularly the 
 "white ledges." If you've played Crystal's games, you know what I'm talking about. The glowing 
 ledges that stand out like black on white. They made no apparent effort to eliminate them in Underworld. 
 The levels were very generic and linear. (Run down a hall, climb up a wall, pull a switch, climb 
 back down, go through the door, next level.) Crystal got very lazy with this game towards the end. 
 Towards the beginning of the game you are on a large boat, which eventually explodes and sinks 
 to the bottom of the sea. Towards the end of the game, you are back on what is supposed to be a 
 different boat. But it is the exact same boat, the weather is just different. There are dozens 
 of doors on the ship, but you can't enter any of them. Which adds to the linear effect of the game. 
 Also, the story just made me sick. The dialogue was terrible and the whole plot for the Legend 
 trilogy is ridiculous. (Considering that her parents actually never died, as they were in Tomb 
 Raider Chronicles during Lara's funeral.) Underworld has virtually no replay value. My positive 
 point-out for Underworld is the graphics, though. I really was blown away, the enviroments were 
 gorgeous. Very colorful, unlike Anniversary. What I was even more impressed with was that the plants 
 actually moved when you walked through them. Uncharted annoyed me when the plants didn't move.
 
  
  Overall, Underworld is a step forward but it needed to take a leap. It is still lacking entertainment 
 value and recieving worse reviews than Legend and Anniversary, which isn't a good sign. Underworld 
 was an average game, but just wasn't the Tomb Raider feeling I had hoped for. Maybe TR9 will change 
 that, but hopefully the series will soon come to an end. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: rynoz7
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 29, 2008 3:16 pm PT
Review:  For over a year, I have been waiting patiently for this game to come out. My expectations were 
 high due to the face that I am a big fan of the Tomb Raider series. Although there were some aspects 
 of the game I would have changed or extended, I felt fairly pleased with the game when I finished 
 it. The makers of the game promised longer gameplay, but I still felt it was a little too short. 
 Total, I probably spent around twelve hours on it. This is, however, longer than Legend. Below, 
 are some of the game's aspects broken down.
  
  Gameplay: If you are a big fan of the Tomb Raider games, I'm sure you will not be let down. The 
 game is fairly similar to Legend and Anniversary except there are a lot more moves and more gameplay 
 elements. These include walking across a pole, free-climbing a wall, and hand-to-hand combat. The 
 game is pretty exciting overall, and the atmosphere of the game fits in well with the areas you 
 explore. I found the puzzles in the game to be pretty well thought out as well.
  
  Story: Again, this is a great follow-up to Legend. It definitely picks up where Legend left off 
 while bringing in certain story elements from Anniversary as well. The whole Norse mythology idea 
 was well thought out and well planned. There were some parts of the story though that I though 
 could use some more "beef" if you know what I mean. Either way, I was very eager to find out what 
 happened next after each level.
  
  Graphics: These games are always beautiful. Ever since Tomb Raider 1, the Tomb Raider series have 
 always visited exotic and beautiful places. Tomb Raider Underworld doesn't stop amazing me either. 
 Of course, this is the best looking Tomb Raider game. Every location has many details to them that 
 just makes me want to just explore them for that very reason. Whether Lara is exploring a lush 
 rain forest or the bottom of the sea, I am pretty sure you will not be disappointed here. (Although 
 I am talking about PS3 graphics)
  
  Sound: I loved the music! Being a person who likes listening to soundtracks, I enjoyed listening 
 to the in-game music very much. There were some places where I thought it fit very well with the 
 game. It was fit for a movie! Even the small sounds sounded great. Whether it is little pebbles 
 falling, trees rustling, or your enemy growling, it is always easy to make yourself apart of the 
 atmosphere you are exploring.
  
  Replay: This is were the game falls short. I know I will play this game multiple times, but mainly 
 this is for the exploration of the environments or to get back into the story. For someone who 
 is not really into the series as much, all the game has to offer is a "Treasure Hunt" mode when 
 you finish. And, all the treasure is are little crystals typically found in vases. Not to mention 
 all you'll be picking up is what you don't get when playing the game through the first time.
  
  Conclusion: Well with that all said, I liked this game very much. It was a beautiful game to 
 look at and fun one to play. If you are a fan of the series, I would not pass this game up by any 
 means. However, if your not a big fan, I'm sure you'll like the game too. I would suggest playing 
 Anniversary and Legend before playing this game though because it helps understand it so much more. 
 Have fun!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: NYrockinlegend
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 28, 2008 9:19 am PT
Review:  For a new Tomb Raider game for PS3, this one's not bad. True, it's not perfect, but the stunning 
 display of graphical potential is used to create beautiful environments, even though there's some 
 graphical errors along the way. The game is fun for exploring and uncovering treasures and artifacts, 
 which the game devs placed in the levels pretty well; it'll probably take you more than one play-through 
 to uncover all the treasures of the game. The combat is noticeably weak, and not very exciting. 
 The enemy AI is also dumb; I could literally stand between two guys shooting at me, and they would 
 fire slightly and not even get away from me, leaving them open to melee blows, no matter how dangerously 
 close I was to them. It took a while for them to finally kill Lara, which is surprising as they 
 did more damage from a distance. Overall, the combat's not very enjoyable, but the game's exploration 
 and puzzle-solving is definitely exciting. The story, however, isn't particularly interesting, 
 and is easily forgettable. Lara has a bunch of new moves to make the platforming more exciting, 
 and truly, I think this is also the strongest part of the game. Add to that an impressive soundtrack. 
 Although the cutscenes look nice, they are, sadly, not very interesting.
  
  For a single-player game, though, it's definitely worth checking out, though maybe as a rental. 
 That's what I did, and I don't think I'll be inclined to play it another time through. Trophies 
 would've helped this title, as would have a more exciting combat system. Arguably, the combat is 
 the most boring part of the game that should either be strengthened or left out altogether. The 
 exploration, however, is what makes the game worth playing. I'd recommend a rental, but if you're 
 a die-hard Tomb Raider fan, maybe a purchase. Though its combat doesn't stand up to Uncharted quite 
 well, the platforming and exploration outmatches it.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: spanky333
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 28, 2008 5:03 am PT
Review:  The Good: Lara finally bursts into next gen with motion captured moves and stunning graphics. Her 
 model is still the Legend/Anniversary Lara, but everything around her has become photo realistic 
 (except the other people.. that would be odd) . The locations and sounds in this game are breathtaking. 
 Puzzles are, as always, finely tuned to be just frustrating enough to be challenging, while still 
 feeling like an adventure! All of this contributes to a well paced tale, however...
  The Bad: It's a short list, but still: The camera is your enemy. There is clipping in the worst 
 places (jumping onto a rock/ledge/building - oops it doesn't actually exist!) , and the game actually 
 crashed on me once when the action got hot. We have come to expect these short comings considering 
 Tomb Raider is in nature a very demanding game in terms of direction, so we can look past these 
 flaws since they are consistent.
  My main gripe with TRU is that it just didn't have the awe factor of the two previous games. Don't 
 get me wrong, the settings and locations are mind blowing on the PS3. It's just that you don't 
 get that same feeling like you are racing all over the globe and hunting relentlessly. It is, as 
 the character Zip says "Business as usual, Lara?". That's a shame. The game has it all, it just 
 needed a tad more heart. 
  
  Still, I wouldn't have missed it for the world, and will probably wind up picking it up for my 
 collection. It is a worthy addition to the Tomb Raider series, even if it feels like an act II 
 instead of a Coda.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: MasterCrow44
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 13, 2009 7:47 am PT
Review:  Ok, let me start off by saying I've played all the Tomb Raider games and was so excited to play 
 with Lara on a next-gen consul. The story is very good as you travel through different locals and 
 under them (thus the name) . The story has many twists and turns and ties up all the loose ends 
 of the two previous games. The locals never looked so good with realistic trees, animals and enemies 
 and Lara looks great also. I remember back to her first game and thought "Oh, Lara how you have 
 grown." The new moves rock and the in game guide can be very helpful. The bad part of this game 
 is the terrible camera angels, where at times you have to jump from one ledge to the next you can't 
 see the other ledge so you just say your "Hail Marys" and hope for the best. Another thing is with 
 Lara's movements at times she freezes for a second or so, especially near a ledge, it's not that 
 bad but just weird cause in no other game I've seen this. With all the detail in the game the weapons, 
 especially the guns look bland with little or no detail and the enemy AI is non existent. Overall 
 for the die hard Lara this is a must own game. I just hope the next one fixes these glitches cause 
 underneath underworld is a fantastic game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Aarontan1
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 25, 2008 10:16 pm PT
Review:  I have not tried any tomb raider games on my ps2 platform before. This is the first time i am playing 
 it. I find that this is a great game, with awesome graphic, amazing sounds and i give a 10/10 rating 
 for a first timer for tomb raider.
  
  I bought this game because ofthe demo i saw on gamespot. There are a few things i like abiut this 
 game, especially when laura is diving in the sea, killing a few sharks. This game looks a little 
 like "Unchartered", which is also a treasue hunting game and it was the best game of 2007. I especially 
 like the way laura was jumping from obstical to obsticals, when she was killing the giant octopus. 
 ITs more like puzzle solving than just run and shoot game. I can't wait to finish the game and 
 see what is th story like.
  
  Also , a few game scences that i saw from gamspot. com which was very nice, especially when laura 
 was running and shooting at tigers and was jumping ard with amazing stunts, leaping into the air 
 and firing her weapons. 
  
  Great game, never regret buying this game. Good work!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: metaessence1
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 24, 2008 3:00 pm PT
Review:  I haven't played a Tomb Raider game since Revelations. This one was so much fun. The environments 
 really draw you into the game. I had no problems with the camera and found it to be very helpful 
 at times. I love this game and would recommend it to anyone who wants a challenging quest through 
 some amazing backdrops. 
  
  The ending could have been a bit more interactive. I remember after finishing the final puzzle 
 it was all over. You can't help but yearn for the joy of beating some final boss. Although this 
 is a minor gripe, I can only hope that expansion levels will be provided at some later date.
  
  Overall the game performs like a work of art. The combat is visceral and engaging. The game's 
 strongest suit would be it's visuals and sound. So often you'll feel as if you were right there 
 with Lara. I also liked the subtle texture details. Seeing her covered in dirt or mud was a nice 
 touch. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: GameSpy_05
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 23, 2008 8:17 am PT
Review:  First off, I signed in for the first time in ages just to review this game (the next one is Mirror's 
 Edge) , because in my opinion its hugely underrated. 
  
  Tomb Raider Underworld starts off in the Mediterranean were Lara begins to search for more clues 
 to Avalon and the mythic Thor. Its a solid story with good voice acting to bring it to life, The 
 gameplay was never a TR game priority so sometimes it may seem a bit dull but its not as bad as 
 too drop the controller, and the camera isn't so bad either it works just fine but at some spaces 
 it zooms into Lara or goes out of place. The environments are as atmospheric as they could ever, 
 with great sound and lighting effects (even though sometimes shadows get a bit jaggy) .
  
  All in all the game is great and if compared to Uncharted, it kicks a million times its butt. Though 
 it shouldn't even be compared to it cause Uncharted is nothing like Tomb Raider and will never 
 be. I wouldn't trust game reviewers much *cough* gamespot *cough* they just tend to review games 
 based on preferences, so if I were you, I would check out the game myself! ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lordvarmint
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 22, 2008 7:56 pm PT
Review:  Crystal Dynamics has out done themselves again!!! This is with out a doubt the best Tomb Raider 
 ever. I never liked the series before. The old ones were okay and I did buy Tomb Raider 3 for Mac 
 and was disappointed. 
  
  
  Crystal Dynamics never takes away from Laura, they only add and enhance her each game. I've seen 
 time and time again, when a new studio takes on an old IP they change it, changing it to what they 
 think is good and take away from what made the IP successful in the first place. Then when the 
 game fails they blame, this, that and the other thing. The golden business rule is you can't take 
 away from the customer once you've given something to them. Well Crystal Dynamics never takes away, 
 only adds and makes it better and better each time!!!!
  
  The puzzles are great and not overly diffcult to figure out. You can now change your outfit and 
 choose new weapons each new chapter in the game you play. And the intro is just classy. And they 
 release cross platform, something I've heard for is impossible by many seasoned industry professions 
 for the past 5 years, and yet they seem to not notice Eidos publishing Tomb Raider cross platform 
 for the last 3 releases. 
  
  So far I've played though the first three chapters about 4 times, just to take it all in. The battle 
 on the boat and the escape as it's sinks is perfect and detailed complex level design. It's beautiful. 
 And being able to do hand to hand combat with Laura is just plan fun! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: djmiranda15
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 22, 2008 9:46 am PT
Review:  It's been a long time since TR1, the only real game in the series that actually had tombs.
  Although TR Legend and Anniversary also had tombs, they weren't as exciting as the first one, or 
 as exciting as they should be.
  
  But rejoice... TR Underworld is here.
  This is the game that will revive the series completely.
  
  OK, that was the introduction, 
 now let's review this game.
  
  
  Pros:
  
  -Somebody ordered beautiful breathtaking tombs? Cause it has them. It has a lot of them.
  
 
  -Perfect to Nearly-Perfect Soundtracks that will make you want to scream "AWESOME".
  
  -Great enemies. Monsters and animals are extremely dangerous.
  Wish I could write the same about 
 the mercs, but they're stupid.
  
  -Game doesn't need installation. This maybe also a con, it depends on whether it would have improved 
 frame rate, and if the user would have had enough HDD space.
  
  
  Cons:
  
  -Horrible camera angles. You will come up with lots of these, besides sometimes the camera is stubborn 
 and will want to keep the angle.
  
  -Animation errors. Sometimes a small thing as animations not combining smoothly, sometimes something 
 much worse. Do be careful. It didn't killed me yet, but it sure has capabilities.
  
  -Combat system. Only designed for attack, the combat system fails to impress. It should be able 
 to use Laras superior agility to create some cool evasive moves. Instead your stuck with roll or 
 jump, which is nothing against your enemies.
  
  -Occasional frame rate drops. Not exactly a problem, but after a while you fill a little confused. 
 Can be ignored, considering the graphical detail in all levels.
  
  Most of this problems are easily fixed by a patch, I hope they make one.
  
  
  This is a first 
 day review.
  Although I only reached level 4, it's enough to write this review and discover all that is great 
 and all that is wrong.
  
  I would like to thank Eidos, Crystal Dynamics and Toby Gard for creating this game and Lara Croft.
 
  Also I would like to thank the progress of technology. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sonygamerchick
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 21, 2008 7:19 pm PT
Review:  I can remember playing the original Tomb Raider waaaaay back in my younger years. I've always been 
 a fan. Tomb Raider is really what got me into playing these kind of adventure games.
  
  I like that it still is classic. You've got all the comforts from the games of past with the stunning 
 visuals the new era has brought along... but there's still something missing. I'm just not sure 
 what it is.
  
  Drakes Fortune blew me away, from the story line to the graphics, to the fluid game play. Something 
 about the game so far just seems like old hat. And don't get me wrong... the comfort of sliding 
 into Lara's boots again is great I just wish there was a bit more to make me say: This is it! This 
 is why this game is the best out there.
  
  Underworld does have it's faults in fluidity. The controls, while not as painful as others make 
 it sound, are pretty irritating at times. Mainly the camera controls... it often has a mind of 
 it's own and you find your viewpoint from behind some brush obscuring what it is you're trying 
 to leap at or shoot at.
  
  The controls are also a bit sluggish and often you'll find yourself leaping to your death because 
 when you press the button to jump up to the next ledge, it still thinks you're pulling back and 
 you jump off. It's happened more than once so it's not me because I made sure that I was controlling 
 her properly.
  
  While the visuals are stunning, especially the cut scenes, in the game play they aren't as good 
 as they should be. Drakes had it right, Underworld is just a bit short on it.
  
  But I'm glad Lara is back, the story is well told. The voice acting is fine. The cut scenes are 
 interesting... it's what I hoped for... but I was also hoping they were going to add something 
 to blow me away with this new entry into the series.
  
  Over all... a good game. A must have? Eh... maybe for us TR lifers... but if you weren't really 
 into the series maybe rent it and decide for yourself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: cotterell55
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 21, 2008 10:33 am PT
Review:  I got a decent loud sound system hooked to my PS3 and even the title screen music (if left playing) 
 gave me goosebumps, from this moment I knew this was going to be intense. Amazing graphics, Lara 
 looks stunning, and the difficulty so far is just right, i'd say the only problem is the camera 
 angle (just like anniversary) is sometimes annoying, but once your used to it your fine. Lara's 
 new moves are great and make the game so much easier to play but with just the right difficulty. 
 The action so far is fantastic and one part (on the ship) without giving too much away will really 
 test your.............. let say navigation skills (which was is up, which way is down) I have only 
 played it for an hour or so coz I had to go round the girlfriends house (she has a wii bless her) 
 and I can tell you this, as soon as I get back im gonna be back on it. It might not be for some 
 people but for any Tomb Raider fan this will not disappoint you. A must buy. Sorry for the short 
 review but I got to go, sooner I get back from my girlfriends the sooner I can play this again 
 lol Love you really Jo lol 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mhaed
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 22, 2008 5:10 pm PT
Review:  I must admit, I was expecting Tomb Raider Underworld to be good, but I was not expecting to have 
 my jaw hit the floor.
  
  Underworld wowed me beyond words. From the title screen, to the introduction, to the first level. 
 I was jumping up and down in my seat for the game to begin. To say the very least, I am extremely 
 impressed and pleased to say that this game is better than Anniversary, better than Legend, and 
 by far the best Tomb Raider game I have ever played. And I am certainly not saying that just because 
 it's powered by next-gen technology.
  
  Underworld, at its core, doesn't take many chances with the tried and true Tomb Raider formula, 
 but the improvements made are immediately noticeable and very welcome.
  
  Croft looks fantastic and the graphics are beyond words to describe. Every detail, from dirt that 
 accumulates on her body as she tumbles and rolls, to the birds flying overhead, to the sun shining 
 through the canopy above the jungle, is amazing. The attention to detail, the small things a passer-by 
 wouldn't notice, make the game feel so very alive and real. In addition, Lara's motion capture 
 is now fully real, as a real gymnast was used to capture every move she makes.
  
  As a side note, I feel inclined to mention that her animations do feel a tad more stiff than in 
 previous games, but it does not take away from the experience and I think it is simply a result 
 of the live motion capture. Perhaps the way she moves is indeed so realistic that I am not used 
 to seeing this kind of movement in a video game. With that said, she's still a wonder to behold.
 
  
  The game begins with a bang and a big question formulates, looming overhead, waiting to be answered 
 as the game progresses. I won't give anything away.
  
  So now to begin. The title screen and menus have been revamped completely. I don't know how many 
 of you appreciate little details such as title menus, but I know I find it a treat to see a developer 
 go so far as to even polish the title screen. Gone are the typical transparent boring menus that 
 always made Tomb Raider feel so run-of-the-mill. Now we are presented with a circular menu. The 
 cursor sits, magnetically, in the center of the screen. Around the circle are your options like 
 display, game options, sound options, etc. If you push on the left analog stick, it sticks to one 
 of the surrounding icons representing each option. If let go, it will stick back to the center. 
 It's very cool. It feels very appropriate for the game, like something you'd see straight out of 
 an Indiana Jones film.
  
  As the game begins, it is evident that there is no slouching in showing off the gorgeous visuals. 
 Lara begins her adventure on a small single person motor boat in the middle of the Mediterranean 
 Sea. The first objective has her jump overboard and swim amidst the shark infested waters to an 
 underwater ruin. Without giving anymore away, it's a great start and a great way to immediately 
 show off the graphics engine as well as the next-gen technology.
  
  The controls are slightly different and there is a bit of a learning curve to becoming accustomed 
 to the new button layout. The biggest difference is that R1 is no longer shoot. It is grenade. 
 R2 is now shoot, with L2 being mapped to readying your selected weapon. I wasted a few grenades 
 getting used to it, but no matter, it works just fine. Further, there is no longer ammo that Lara 
 must find, all the guns have a certain amount of ammunition at the beginning of each level. I like 
 this idea and I find it more realistic, because why would you find a pack of shotgun shells lying 
 around in the jungle?
  
  Further, there is no health "bar", so to speak. Instead there is a small silhouette of Lara in 
 the upper left hand corner of the screen that changes colors (blue, green, yellow, red) depending 
 on how hurt she is. I think it's pretty nifty and further helps to immerse the player in the world, 
 and doesn't distract from the atmosphere. It just gives the game more personality and polish.
 
  
  Again, to focus on small details. The blood effects are no longer "clouds" of red mist. When your 
 bullets strike home, the blood splashes and sprays, and looks much more realistic. Of course the 
 effects are kept within the "T" rating.
  
  Underworld is a magnificent game that should be played by any Raider fan - no questions asked. 
 It may also be a great way to introduce new players to the series. It is a fantastic third person 
 action-adventure game. The focus again, like Anniversary, is adventure over action. If you liked 
 Legend, but felt as though the game featured too much action and gun play instead of adventure 
 and puzzle-solving, this is remedied in Underworld.
  
  If you like Tomb Raider, and you like being mentally challenged but still having your finger on 
 the trigger, play this game! Buy this game! In an era of overpriced games and money wasted on flash 
 with no substance, it is welcome and refreshing to see a developer like Crystal Dynamics create 
 a game worth your hard earned cash. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lethal_NFS
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 19, 2008 7:37 pm PT
Review:  Tomb Raider: Underworld takes place after Tomb Raider: Legend. Lara Croft lost her mother at the 
 age of 9, or so she thought.......... If you recall back in Tomb Raider: Legend her old friend Amanda 
 told Lara that her mother was not dead and is somewhere in Avalon. 
  
  The game starts off with the explosion of Lara's home. You need to get yourself out of the burning 
 mansion before it all comes down on top of you. The thing is, you set the fire and now your own 
 friends can't trust you. You then jump back a few days before the explosion and eventually you 
 find out why you blew your home up and why your friends do not trust you. The game finally finds 
 its roots with Underworld and below are some examples why.
  
  
  Graphics = 9.5/10
  
  This is easily the best looking Tomb Raider game to date. The environments are absolutely beautiful 
 to look at and extremely detailed. The rain drops on the ground to the water trickling down the 
 sides of the walls. Nothing looks rushed and you get all of this with a solid frame rate.
  
  Sound = 9/10
  
  As always you get the classic Tomb Raider soundtrack with new musical scores. 
 Find a treasure or an item and hear that old friendly tune from Tomb Raider 1. Sound effects echo 
 throughout the enclosed cavern or a bland muffled gun shot under water. All the effects nicely 
 represent their true life sounds. And as always the character scripts and voiceovers are perfect.
 
  
  Gameplay = 8.75/10
  
  The game feels nearly identical to Legend. Same basic controls as before. I noticed some things 
 to be a bit different like when aiming your gun you press L2 but you do not see a crosshair. Its 
 like you have to wait for an auto lock to hit your target. You also need to fire by pressing R2 
 which takes some getting used to. Most of us are used to L1 and R2.
  Like Legend you can climb up poles and leap from one to another and just like before its a real 
 pain to aim yourself to jump to the next pole. Many times you will jump right past it and fall 
 to your death. 
  A new feature is wall scalling and the ability to jump forward on the wall and quickly jump off 
 of it in the opposite direction to maybe grab a ledge or a switch.
  
  Overall = 9/10
  
  The game feels more at its roots in terms of there actually being areas like tombs or caverns to 
 explore for artifacts and you are not being attacked by 50 enemies. These places have been hidden 
 for a long time and you really get that feeling you are in a sacred place and still something could 
 be waiting behind a door that you opened 1000 years later. Tomb Raider: Underworld in my opinion 
 was well worth the wait and definately gets my stamp of approval.
  
  PS3 users need to be aware that their version of the game does not have trophies. Its a damn shame 
 too.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: foo
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 18, 2008 5:46 pm PT
Review:  I will be brief, because there's no point in telling too much, this game has to be played, period, 
 and I don't want to ruin it for you!
  
  Underworld is visually stunning, and gameplay stands up to the awesome graphics. The puzzles are 
 as epic as they get in an adventure game, and figuring them out takes a good blend of skills and 
 thought. the camera generally behaves in a good, fluid way, and the fluid movement camera does 
 a good job at showing you points of view that combines drama and usefulness in pretty equal measures.
 
  
  Overall, gameplay It is not perfect, but it's solid and most importantly, FUN! Combat as been overhauled 
 from the previous games and should be much more satisfying for players. 
  
  This is truly Tomb Raider at its best. And it goes on longer than Legend, which is great.
  
 
  So quit reading reviews and just go pick it up and play it, you won't regret it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kalani44288
Rating: 10
Date: Nov 18, 2008 12:31 pm PT
Review:  This has the best story that any game has ever had (I actually loved it and payed attention) . The 
 graphics are outstanding, everything looks so real. The difficulty is not real easy and not too 
 hard (although you can choose it to be real easy or real hard) . Outstanding voice work too! There 
 are special features too with extra outfits and more. Legend and Anniversary are nothing compared 
 to this game. You will want to replay this game so much! I think that this game will shock people 
 because some people don't really care for Tomb Raider series, but this is a must have for anyone 
 who plays video games. Can't wait for the down loadable extra levels and outfits coming at the 
 end of the year! Don't worry if you don't have an Xbox 360 because PS3 will have it too (Sony confirmed 
 they will have it too, but they haven't signed the deal yet) . EVERYONE GO BUY IT! It is worth the 
 money! This is one of the best games ever made!!! And it is better than Uncharted: Drake's Fortune!!! 
 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
