-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/graw2/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Intense, gritty modern infantry combat.
 Impressive multiplayer suite with countless combinations of competitive and cooperative game modes.
 Good looking graphics and excellent sound effects.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 The single-player campaign is over before you know it.
 Since GRAW2 is the first GRAW game for PS3, you feel like you're missing part of the story.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Aug 29, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8.5
Critic Score: 8.6, 30 Review (s)
User Score: 8.5, 1,504 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Red Storm Ent.
Genre: Modern Tactical Shooter
Date: Aug 23, 2007
ESRB: Teen

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
GRAW2 offers up a solid, though short, single-player campaign. But the bulk of its gameplay can 
 be found in its impressive multiplayer offering. 

  2006's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter was rightly acclaimed to be one of the first truly next-generation 
 games, thanks to its intense gameplay and luscious graphics. Of course, it shipped only for the 
 Xbox 360, given that the PlayStation 3 was still in gestation at the time. Now that it's 2007, 
 Ubisoft has delivered the first GRAW game for the PS3. However, instead of presenting the original 
 GRAW, Ubisoft has instead provided Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2, the sequel that was delivered 
 on the Xbox 360 earlier this year. That's sort of like starting a book in the middle, but to be 
 fair, the GRAW games are less about story and more about shooting things up with next-generation 
 weaponry.  

           Welcome back to Mexico in GRAW2. Now take out some more rebels.      

  GRAW2 puts 
 you in the steel-toed combat boots of US Army Captain Scott Mitchell of the fictional 5th Special 
 Forces Group (the Ghosts) for a grueling battle south of the border in Mexico. While you needn't 
 have played the first game to enjoy the second, it certainly helps to understand the overarching 
 plot. A Mexican civil war has erupted between mutinous army units. For various reasons, the elected 
 civilian government and the US have been drawn into the conflict. In the new game, the fighting 
 threatens to spill over onto US soil along with the threat of nuclear weapons, which gives your 
 superiors even more reasons to scream at you over the radio to defeat the rebels.  

  What follows is more of the intense infantry combat that featured in the original GRAW. You will 
 go on both solo and team missions to achieve a varied set of objectives, from rescuing a Mexican 
 journalist who has clues about the insurgency, to neutralizing enemy encampments, and more. The 
 action unfolds on both sides of the border this time, and the game ably captures the first-world 
 and second-world settings. The Mexican side of the border faces even more turmoil than in the first 
 game. The visuals in GRAW2 are also more stunning than in the original, thanks to sumptuous atmospheric 
 lighting and effects. The incredible scale remains; once again you'll look out over vast cityscapes 
 that consist of hundreds of buildings as you fly over in your Black Hawk helicopter. But now, you 
 can also take in the stunning vista of a setting sun over the desert, or gaze at gigantic pillars 
 of smoke rising from the fires of a war-torn Mexican city. Also, the PS3 suffers from a bit more 
 aliasing than the Xbox 360, the colors are duller, and the frame rate struggles at times.  

  Similar to its predecessor, GRAW2 features a mix of on-foot and in-vehicle action sequences. 
 Most of the time you'll be on foot, hugging every bit of cover available as you engage a mix of 
 Mexican Army rebels and foreign mercenaries. The cover system remains solid, and you can "hug" 
 most forms of cover simply by moving up to them. Once there, you can swing out or up to engage 
 an enemy before dropping back to cover. It's this system that makes the GRAW games feel more authentic 
 than other types of shooters in which you can only stand in the open. On top of that, the squad 
 system lets you command a small infantry squad, so it's not just yourself that you have to worry 
 about.  

           Combat is visually intense, especially since you can see the wake of each bullet as it 
 cuts through the air.      

  Control of your teammates, vehicles, or drones is a lot easier now thanks to the improved communications 
 system. Now you can get a full-screen video feed from any friendly asset on the battlefield, which 
 essentially lets you be in two places at once. You can find some cover, tell your men to move to 
 another position, and then use their video cameras to locate and call out targets for them to engage. 
 A cool new battlefield drone called the mule has many uses, which include battlefield resupply 
 and healing, mobile cover, and remote-controlled scout. You're able to control the mule directly 
 from the camera view or give it movement orders on the fly. The overhead drone that was cumbersome 
 to use in GRAW is also improved in the sequel because it's far easier to control, and you can view 
 its video feed in full screen rather than in a postage-stamp-sized window. The game uses the Sixaxis 
 motion controls in a limited, mostly ignorable fashion (the few motions available aren't very good) , 
 but the bigger issue with the PS3 controls is that while there are multiple control configurations 
 to choose from, none of them let you use R2 as the trigger. This seems like an annoying oversight, 
 especially because Rainbow Six: Vegas for the PS3 (a cousin to GRAW) did have such an option.  
 

  Thankfully, GRAW2 manages to eliminate some of the frustrating gameplay elements that appeared 
 in the first game, such as the annoying rooftop sniper hunts, which were more of an exercise in 
 trial and error than actual skill. Those have been replaced with some riveting set-piece battles, 
 including a  Black Hawk Down  scenario, as well as desperate defend-and-hold situations. And while 
 you can go through the game stealthily if you want by using suppressed weapons and sneaking about, 
 it's just as much fun -- if not more -- to go through with guns blazing. The large battles in GRAW2 
 are usually pretty awesome because vehicles are exploding around you, helicopters are buzzing above, 
 and the situation is going crazy. Perhaps the best moment in the campaign is when you're temporarily 
 deprived of your high-tech gear, which deprives you of all the oh-so-helpful targeting information 
 that can make the combat in GRAW2 feel a bit too easy at times. Suddenly having to locate and identify 
 your targets raises the intensity quite a bit.     

   

  The artificial intelligence in GRAW2 seems to be on par with the previous game in that it's OK 
 and not brain-dead. Your teammates do a dutiful job of following you around, but you'll still need 
 to do most of the heavy lifting when it comes to combat. However, one of the nice new features 
 of the AI is that it does a fantastic job of calling out enemy locations. For instance, if there 
 are two bad guys next to a red car shooting at you, your teammates will yell out that very fact. 
 Their "awareness" of the level and ability to describe that to you is a nice touch, which adds 
 an extra bit of authenticity to a firefight. And the rest of the sound in the game is also fantastic. 
 With that said, it's worth noting that the plot feels like it's starting to veer toward a territory 
 of silliness, even for a video game. General Keating, your immediate superior, is more overbearing 
 than ever. He's constantly telling you what to do and behaving like he can rewrite the intensity 
 of the situation simply by yelling louder. And then there's the moment when the president of the 
 US gives you a personal pep talk in the middle of a huge firefight, which suddenly makes GRAW2 
 feel like it's emulating the over-the-top histrionics of the television show  24 .  

           The multiplayer suite is incredibly varied and has plenty of content.      

  The main 
 downside to the campaign is that it's very short, and you can get through it in maybe four or five 
 hours at most, which means that it's over before you know it. The good news there is that GRAW2 
 offers a huge amount of multiplayer goodness, even more than the original. There's something in 
 the multiplayer suite for everyone, from a six-mission cooperative campaign that takes place in 
 Panama, to an incredibly open-ended competitive suite. The PS3 also ships with some exclusive maps, 
 including some that are updates of classic Ghost Recon maps.  

  Not only is there more multiplayer content in the form of new maps and new weapons, but there's 
 also stronger gameplay. For example, the graphics in multiplayer now match the quality of the single-player 
 game, which didn't happen in the original GRAW. The new levels are fairly big, large enough to 
 make even 16-player games feel roomy, and their design is inspired. For instance, "Crash Site" 
 is set amidst the burning wreckage of a downed US transport aircraft. Maps can come in several 
 variations, reflecting different times of day and lighting conditions, which is a nice touch that 
 shows off the cool new effects.  

  The host can set up a wide range of competitive games, from objective-based to simple team deathmatch. 
 With all the variables that can be adjusted, from the amount of respawns, the weapon restrictions, 
 the objectives, and such, there are effectively countless custom modes that can be created. But 
 there can be a lot of silliness in multiplayer as well. For instance, the new helicopter-hunt mode 
 has you and your teammates doing nothing more than shooting down gunship and transport helicopters 
 out of the sky with rocket launchers. This task isn't too easy because of the speed and maneuverability 
 of the helicopters, as well as the fact that they can strafe you with rockets.  

           The visuals are excellent all around and a huge leap up from the Ghost Recon games on 
 the PS2.      

  Meanwhile, the six-mission co-op campaign is also a lot of fun because you can romp through a separate 
 storyline along with up to 15 other players. The gist of the co-op story is that a Panamanian strongman 
 is funding the Mexican rebels up north, and a separate team of Ghosts is dispatched to get the 
 job done. Battles rage around the Panama Canal and its outlying areas, with dynamic objectives 
 and other neat new features adding an extra layer of challenge and coordination to the entire affair. 
 Previously, you had to worry only about killing all the bad guys as fast as you could, but with 
 dynamic objectives, your team has to coordinate its actions to accomplish secondary goals. These 
 goals include blowing up two radio towers simultaneously; destroying them separately would risk 
 the appearance of enemy reinforcements.  

  The teamwork in the game is also enhanced in the co-op and competitive modes by the new aid system. 
 If you're shot in a manner that wouldn't instantly kill you, your character will drop and roll 
 around on the ground, wounded. You can choose to die and instantly respawn, but if there are friendlies 
 around, they have a limited amount of time to patch you up before you die. This adds an extra bit 
 of urgency to the voice channel as players cry for help and others rush in to save them.  

  There's such a wealth of content in the multiplayer suite that it alone makes GRAW2 an easy purchase 
 for multiplayer fans. The flip side to this is that if you don't like to play online, then GRAW2 
 is an iffier proposition. The single-player game is fun, but its brevity is certainly an issue. 
 Still, if you're a fan of modern combat, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 makes a compelling case 
 for a game that you have to play.  

    Editor's note 08/31/07 : The original review text stated that the game did not support Sixaxis 
 motion controls, which is incorrect. GameSpot regrets the error.      
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (82 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: blue4avenger
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 8, 2009 6:14 am PT
Review:  4th review for my sister, Tom Clancys Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2.
  
  I have a bone to pick with Tom Clancy. In the past ten years, I've given most of his franchises 
 the ol' college try, only to give up in frustration because his games are simply too realistic 
 for my tastes. Rainbow Six, Splinter Cell, and even the older Ghost Recon games gave me fits of 
 anger that belies my easygoing demeanor. However, ever since Ghost Recon has evolved into the Advanced 
 Warfighter series, the series has been the exception. GRAW, as it's mostly called these days, is 
 an intense, realistic and well polished shooter, and it's now available on that shiny new PS3.
 
  
  GRAW 2 picks up immediately the events of the first game and features an engrossing storyline which 
 feels frighteningly plausible in today's unstable political climate. It's a few years into the 
 future, and a Mexican rebel force has overtaken the Mexican government and has set up shop on the 
 American border in Juarez. Worse still, they have acquired a nuclear weapon. Therefore, it is up 
 to Ghost Leader Scott Mitchell and his Ghost Squad to make the world safe for the American way 
 of life. The storyline is presented mostly in transit from one mission to the next, with newscasts 
 interplayed with your commanding officer explaining your next objectives. The plausibility of the 
 story makes the gameplay feel that much more intense with everything that is at stake.
  
  Missions range from desperate defend-and-hold situations, a few escorts, and search and destroy 
 rebel hunts. The game thankfully has fewer sniper hunts than the first game.
  
  Luckily, GRAW 2 makes it really easy to identify your objectives and where to go to accomplish 
 them. GRAW 2's gameplay essentially boils down to finding the yellow square that highlights your 
 next objective and eliminating any rebels between you and said objective. Luckily for you, Mitchell 
 has access to the cross com, a futuristic visor which has lots of useful features. These include 
 the POV of your UAV (a little flying gyrocopter with a fitted camera) , giving you updates on your 
 squad's orders and health, and updating your objectives and highlighting the position of rebels 
 in your vicinity. 
  
  Beyond the cross com, you're given access to a wide variety of toys to help you in your missions. 
 Occasionally you'll be given support in the form of a mobile remote controlled safe that contains 
 weapons, medkits, and works as mobile cover. Very occasionally you'll also get support from Blackhawk 
 helicopters in the air. Of course, you also have your trusty squad at your side for most missions. 
 
  
  The interface for issuing orders is elegant and simple, even under fire. You press left or right 
 on the D-pad to cycle through different supports such as squad, UAV and the like. Most orders are 
 context sensitive, and issued by pressing up or down. You can also call up a map of the area at 
 any time and issue direct orders for movement or action on any point on the map. 
  
  The AI in the game for the enemies provides a stiff challenge, even on normal difficulty. No matter 
 where you are, the enemy AI will spot you after only a single shot, and will keep you in their 
 sights no matter where you move to. It also doesn't help they could shoot fleas off a dog's back 
 from across a football field. Your compatriot AI is better than average, but occasionally they 
 make some real boneheaded decisions. For example, I placed a C4 charge on an enemy tank that they 
 were taking cover on. I ordered them to follow me away from the soon-to-be-incinerated tank, to 
 which they replied "no." Of course, the tank went up, and I heard three simultaneous screams of 
 "MEDIC!" Still, aside from a few hiccups, the AI does a good job of watching your back and giving 
 you helpful hints to be more effective in battle. 
  
  As for your own controls, Mitchell moves quickly and slams to cover effectively. You can peek and 
 fire around corners, and you'll have to get used to taking cover often and quickly, or get used 
 to the game over screen. Like most Tom Clancy games, this is not a run and gun shooter. You'll 
 have to use suppressing fire and flank the enemy to be successful. 
  
  The PS3 version introduces new Sixaxis controls to the mix that are a complete gimmick and waste 
 of time. You can tilt the controller left and right to roll, pitch it forward to backward to dive 
 or slide, and aim your sniper rifle with the tilt function. None of these functions are particularly 
 precise, and you'll find yourself diving or sliding a lot by accident if you play with the Sixaxis 
 controls turned on. I turned them off two missions into the game.
  
  Unfortunately, GRAW 2 is short. Really short. You can beat the single player game in about four 
 hours if you're even halfway decent at it. Luckily, Ubisoft has included an impressive suite of 
 multiplayer features that outshine even the 360 version. Multiplayer over the PlayStation Network 
 was refreshingly lag free, and there's a ton of game types ranging from every man for himself deathmatch, 
 team versus team games, and co-operative team objectives, in addition to some levels of the campaign. 
 The PS3 version also introduces several game types and maps that aren't present in the 360 version. 
 The servers are well populated at all hours, and I never had any trouble jumping right into a game. 
 GRAW 2 makes a strong multiplayer showing on the PS3.
  
  The PS3 version of the game has a few issues that weren't present in the 360 version too. I had 
 the game lock up on mid-mission loading screens a half dozen times in one play through on the campaign, 
 but at least the game would auto-save right beforehand. The game also doesn't run quite as smooth 
 as it does on the 360, although the frame rate never gets so bad as to become an issue that hurts 
 gameplay. 
  
  Whichever version of the game you play, you're guaranteed to be getting one sexy feast for the 
 eyes. GRAW 2 is simply gorgeous. From the impressive HDR lighting, the outstanding flame and explosion, 
 particle and smoke effects, and high definition graphics, GRAW 2 places you right in the thick 
 of an urban battlefield.
  
  Audio is very impressive too. The voice acting is merely average, but the sounds of war will come 
 through your receiver and assault your eardrums. All this is helped by a thumping and adrenaline 
 pumping orchestral score that really gives the game a Hollywood war movie feel that simply could 
 not be achieved any other way.
  
  Ubisoft has creating a culturally relevant, intensely playing shooter than must be experienced 
 if you have any interest in the genre. Sure, it's pretty short, but there are no slow spots to 
 speak of and the game is never boring. Throw in an excellent multiplayer game, and you've got an 
 excellent reason to make GRAW 2 a purchase. GRAW 2 is highly recommended for any tactical shooter 
 fan. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gamereviews2008
Rating: 7.5
Date: Mar 4, 2009 7:59 am PT
Review:  Man, soldiers sure do get all the fancy gear... especially in Tom Clancy's world. You know that 
 scene at the beginning of Willy Wonka when Wonka lets the kids into the room where all the plants 
 are made of candy? Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 is kind of like that, only with guns instead 
 of chocolate.
  OK, maybe not. But the new gear introduced in GRAW 2 is still pretty freakin' sweet. The UAV Cypher, 
 for example, gives you an eye in the sky to scout ahead for enemies. The MULE is a mobile, automated 
 weapon shop; it can be used in a pinch to run down any bad guys foolish enough to stand around 
 out in the open. And the Gun-cam lets you take a bead on enemies without stepping out from behind 
 cover.
  
  And all that spiffy recon gear is put to good use, because GRAW 2 liberally mixes strategy and 
 action, balancing the two more adroitly than in any other tactical shooter I've played to date. 
 In some levels, you'll go in guns blazing; in others, you'll creep from cover to cover and pray 
 you're not seen. Sometimes you'll be alone, other times you'll make heavy use of your three-man 
 squad, and sometimes you'll end up with additional support as the mission moves forward. The game 
 constantly mixes things up, and in the process manages to neatly avoid the most common frustration 
 of tactical shooters: figuring out how you're supposed to be playing the level. See, most tactical 
 shooters I've played have a specific path in mind for the player; you need to take out this guy 
 first, then move to that cover, and take out that vehicle with this weapon -- and if you don't 
 do everything right, and in order, the mission becomes vastly more difficult, if not impossible, 
 to complete. Here, the options are far more broad, not just because of the wide-open level design 
 (though that's certainly part of it) , but also because of the sheer variety of tactical support 
 -- both human and mechanical -- at your disposal. The result is that the game offers a legitimate 
 feeling of being a highly trained special operative, with the discretion to perform your mission 
 as you best see fit.
  The tense missions are only half the equation, of course: GRAW 2 also offers an astonishingly deep 
 multiplayer mode, offering matches online, over LAN, and splitscreen. The game features an almost 
 shocking number of maps -- 32 in all, with eight of those offering battles at two different times 
 of day. And you'll also find nearly two dozen game modes, from solo to team to co-op campaign missions. 
 Online play allows for exceptional clan support, allowing the clan leader to customize characteristics 
 as minute as camo pattern and clan logo. And you'll even get to use some of that fancy gear from 
 the single-player campaign online, like the UAV drone: Send it out, and any enemies it sees will 
 show up on your HUD.
  Trouble is, the gameplay itself isn't quite up to the same standard. Characters move more slowly 
 than in the offline game and lack some essential abilities that campaign-mode players are trained 
 to rely on, like being able to shoot around corners. The framerate tends to chop (at least, it 
 did for me on DSL) , making simple movement feel floaty and imprecise. I ran into plenty of teleporting 
 as well -- only it was me who was teleporting, which is fairly unusual.
  
  On top of these issues, the matchmatching is simply atrocious. Choose a "quick game," and one of 
 two things will happen: The game will go through the entire connection process but then tell you 
 the match is full, or you'll join the lobby of a game already in progress and be forced to wait 
 until the current match is over. I never found a single exception to either of those rules.
  Now, understand that many of these issues could be caused (or, at least, exacerbated) by my specific 
 connection. They're also the kinds of things that could potentially be resolved through a patch 
 (I notice that the online menu reports "version 1.01") . But if you're one of the millions of people 
 with a good-but-not-great broadband line, you need to know that this could be an issue.
  
  It's this online deficiency that makes this excellent game slightly inferior to its 360 counterpart, 
 but if Microsoft's machine isn't part of your gaming arsenal -- or you're just not into online 
 play -- you'll find plenty to like here. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: HarriersArmy
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 17, 2009 10:47 am PT
Review:  As most reviews have said, the single player is very short. After completing it in less than half-a-day 
 it is by far one of the shortest games I have played. Graphics are of a high quality, with minimal 
 drops in frame rate. The controls throughout the game are fairly easy to remember and get used 
 to quickly, ideal for beginners in the world of tactical shooters, although compared to other shooters 
 there is a lot more to get to grips with. 
  
  The online multi player was supposed to be the big part of this game. When I first played on GRAW2, 
 a fair while back now, it was one of my first experiences of online shooting. To tell the truth, 
 I thought it was brilliant, being able to send messages in game, having clans, the quite large 
 maps and the wide choice of weaponry. Although as time passed I decided it was time for a change 
 and purchased myself a copy of Call Of Duty 4: Modern Warfare. That's when i realised, GRAW2's 
 (supposedly) fantastic online was actually pretty poor. Apart from the fact it had so many weapons, 
 maps and game types it really wasn't all that brilliant. From my experiences it lagged more than 
 enough, and the non-existent auto starting of online matches meant you spent more time waiting 
 around than you did actually playing.
  
  Overall a good game, but there is better out there.
  
  Happy Gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Colinski283
Rating: 6.5
Date: Feb 6, 2009 10:20 am PT
Review:  The single player is fun and intuitive. I actually really enjoy the single player because it is 
 intense and the squad you have to command are pretty smart. In a gun battle I once saw my partner 
 firing at our opponents but I noticed he was out in the open firing with no cover. I yell out loud 
 "get some cover!" and just as a I said that he runs to find some cover thanks to decent AI. With 
 that said single player is solid. 
  
  However my biggest problem with GRAW 2 is the multiplayer. It sucks. Period. It feels nothing like 
 the single player. There is an absence of the ability to use cover, aiming is awkward and slow, 
 and there is a degrade in graphics. Multiplayer in GRAW2 as of 2009 is almost non existent and 
 when you do find a game you often are sliding on the floor because of lag. For example, you will 
 be at a wall and as you tap on the stick to peek right it takes about .5 sec for it to respond. 
 Lag does seem to affect this game more so than the other ps3 shooters. Also, there is a variety 
 of guns but they all sound and look the same. The scope rectiles they provide for you are all very 
 generic. 
  
  Overall, as a multiplayer lover first and single player second, I can not recommend this game. 
 Perhaps it is worth a rental but the multiplayer just leaves me unsatisfied and wondering why i 
 rented this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: doc18
Rating: 6
Date: Jan 7, 2009 9:40 am PT
Review:  Graw 2 is a hi tech mix of the ghost recon gameplay you love or loath, and graphics from a game 
 thats actually considered good...
  ok let me explain that, Before GRAW, tom clancy's (A name i now shudder when i hear, mainly because 
 he is more famous for his games that his books. ) ghost recon series, was good, but suffered from 
 bugs and the graphics were pretty poor, and thats putting it nicely. Graw came along and fixed 
 this though, but like all high spec graphics games, it requires a helluva machine to run it.
  
  So Tom clancy, ( or more realistically, his team of underpaid, over stressed game designers) , 
 decided to release the sequel on all consoles, to make up for 'what we've missed.' However Graw 
 2 is so similar to Graw it could be it's twin. It's like when you accomplish something in life 
 only to have your annoying younger brother try and do the exact same, but to a lesser standard. 
 
  
  I've just realised thats the perfect way to sum this game up...
  
  Anyway onto the game itself. In a not too distant future (sigh) your a recon unit that ends up 
 taking on half of mexican rebels, disarming a nucleur bomb, amongst other things. to quote sweetwater 
 from Battlefield : Bad Company ' isn't there a bunch of other guys that also do this stuff? Like 
 the American Army?'. I've come to agree with him, there's meant to be. But throughout the game 
 you get very little help from anyone except a few underarmed, mexican rebels (of the rebels) . You 
 know i'm not sure, it actually might be the army your fighting. In which case it raises a bigger 
 question, why send a ghost unit to fight off half the military when you have a huge army back home 
 that can do the whole thing a lot quicker? Anyway bad story telling aside (i blame you tom clancy) 
 The game isn't really story driven (like most fps' then) so onto the actual game itself. 
  
  (funny thats the second time i've said that with little intention of doing it.)
  
  No seriously, 
 the gameplay is mixed. The shooting is loose and hard to aim, its not the controls failt, its the 
 speed at which your reticle moves. However i guess this is to compensate for the extremely thick 
 ai that look like they've just graduated from the same school as your younger, stupid brother. 
 (sorry i'll stop with the brother insulting, he's been annoying me recently)
  Also for something that says, realistic war simulation within the manual several times, it doesn't 
 seem to be anything like that. I know i know i'm nitpicking, but if i didn't nitpick i wouldn't 
 be a mediocre reviewer would i? 
  
  I guess the problem is that for a game that intends to be realistic, you sure do get a helluva 
 bunch of useless gadgets. I cry for a game where all you need is your gun and your instincts. Not 
 x ray specs to see through walls. Even though the enemies stand up behind crouching cover so often 
 you'd think their doing squats...
  The fact that all the enemies are highlighted as soon as your retina crosses them, although useful 
 in a frantic firefight. There aren't any. you dispatch a few thick, poorly organised enemies at 
 a time untill you call it a day. (i won't ruin the ending to this 'story')
  
  However for some reason Ghost Recon Advanced warfighter 2 comes off immensely satisfying. Maybe 
 its because when you finally get the cursed retina on an enemy you are just thankful that you can 
 now shoot the damn terrorist/rebel/space mutant...
  
  Thankfully your team mates are slightly smarter than the enemies. Although emphasis on the slightly. 
 Unlike most computer controlled coop games, your teammates can actually die on this. And when the 
 die, you don't get a game over screen, they just die. They follow basic commands, attack, retreat, 
 fire at will, cease fire. But by themselves there are paraletic, either they have been taught to 
 stand still by the drill instructor until ordered, or have lost the will to live in this virtual 
 game hell that is GRAW 2. Something that i did early on. For example, during one of the tank/vehicle 
 fights, which is meant to be a tense fight full of ducking and weaving and diving for cover. Your 
 ai, just stand there, taking damage and returning the odd pistol shot. What made this worse is 
 that when they are injured you have to heal them, using up your medikits for their stupidity, thankfully 
 i was able to go solo and left the fools to die.
  
  Now that i've ripped the games apart with my cutting remarks, i think its time i highlight some 
 of the few good parts about the game.
  
  The sound is good, the guns sound like they should, music is dramatic, voice acting is well, there? 
 Explosions are also cool and there are a large amount of weapons.
  The camera is fine, but like all third person shooters its not as accurate as it could be with 
 a first person.
  The graphics are great even now, and finally, some of your teamates can be intelligent sometimes. 
 Naming where an enemy is I. E 'Behind the green car'! a scripted event usually but can differ when 
 enemy ai actually has the sense to take cover.
  
  However when you get onto the multiplayer, i mean if you can get on, your treated to a rather watered 
 down version of the single player. Although there is coop and team deathmatch and such, the single 
 player wasn't that fun in the first place, and having your friends then play it with you seems 
 more like your punshing them then asking them to join in something that is fun. Which are what 
 games are meant to be! ( that last sentence again is for you tom clancy)
  
  Overall, i couldn't reccomend this game to many, it's average single player, thick AI, boring multiplayer, 
 combined with some of the most annoying characters you'll find in a shoot em up, leave you feeling 
 although the games weapons maybe advanced, the gameplay still feels like the developers are wearing 
 pelts and carrying clubs...
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: KingJbc
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jan 4, 2009 5:46 pm PT
Review:  The story starts a few years into the future where a Mexican rebel force has overtaken the Mexican 
 government and has set up shop on the American border in Juarez. Worse still, they have acquired 
 a nuclear weapon. Therefore, it is up to Ghost Leader Scott Mitchell and his Ghost Squad to make 
 the world safe for the American way of life. The game is one of the best tactical shooters around 
 and is quite a realistic shooter. The game has lots of weapons some are modern some are a bit futuristic. You 
 have 3 team mates with you and you can choose what class they are like: rifleman, medic, anti-tank 
 gunner and a few more you can also get some vehicles under your control on certain missons like 
 the mule which is a supply vehicle. The single player for this game is good but can get boring and 
 the multiplayer for this game lets you play online, LAN, or local. Local is on your PS3, LAN is near 
 your PS3 but with other PS3's and online is all over the world and the online play is great and 
 hardly gets boring.
  
  Graphics- 9/10
  Gameplay- 9.5/10
  Sound- 9/10
  Singleplayer- 8.5/10
  Multiplayer- 9.5/10
  Overall- 9.5/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: danielreader22
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 20, 2008 10:47 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is awesome! You play as Captain Scott Mitchell, leader of the Ghost Squad. You fight mexican 
 rebels transporting nuclear weapons of mass destruction. Ok, first the gameplay is beyond any third-person 
 shooter. You can control your squad, tanks, helicopters, and more! All with one little cross-com. 
 The gunfire is intense. The screen shakes whenever you're taking fire and you can see the bullets 
 cutting the air. You can use cars, boxes, and walls for cover. Shooting enemies is so fun! It feels 
 good to shoot bad guys! The graphics are awesome. Really detailed and technically proficient. The 
 UAV is very useful for tracking tanks and enemies. The bonus stuff you can unlock is cool to. Overall, 
 this game is a definite buy! There's lots of technology and your teammates often make a good laugh! 
 If you like the future, and are into third- person shooters, then this is a masterpiece! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 20, 2008 7:20 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall,
  
  As far as Tom Clancy goes i have played all of the games since the first rainbow six, and he knows 
 what he is doing. But something that has plagued me in all of these games. You just don't feel 
 like you've killed someone, I felt like i was that far away from battle i knew i was playing a 
 game. 
  
  What i am saying is 9/10 you are a quite a range off the opposing forces and droping them like 
 a bad habit, but you just don't feel power. The guns felt under powered, but the explosions are 
 the best i had seen for along time. But the guns just sound plastic and uninspired the camera movement 
 is well done i'll admit that. But i was always aware that i was playing a game (don't know about 
 you but i fade out the world when i am playing and i feel that i am there in the game) the support 
 options you get are quite funny, but the inability to enter cover mode behind a moving friendly 
 tank and not walk with it in cover mode gets frustrating when under attack. 
  
  The rail shooting sections can be FUN but get dull just as quick as they get fun voice acting feels 
 weak and lame quite often on the radio and your "back-up" are as much use as a used tea bag. I 
 came across a bug a few times where my team mate would get stuck and i couldn't progress because 
 the thing wouldn't move and i had to re-start the whole level again. 
  
  In my eyes a good step forward but at the same time a huge leap to the side, too slow for a war 
 game, has it's moments but if you are looking for an involving war game try call of duty no team 
 tactics but good old action.
  
  Recommended only because you could pick it up cheap now.
  
  Thanks for reading 
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: donksyjohn
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 9, 2008 4:15 am PT
Review:  When i first started playing the game I was loving it, as I hadnt played many ghost recon tactical 
 style games before. I played it through once, and it felt like I had just done the same sort of 
 mission over and over again, with a few little tangents thrown in like the odd chopper ride with 
 a minigun... I will not play it through again, and didnt really get into multiplayer.. 
  Mainly because after COD4 its gonna take something pretty damn good to keep me interested.
  Some 
 missions are solo, some you get extra infrantry along with your ghosts, some you get 'little bird', 
 a helicopter gunship with a female pilot. The drone that you can use for recon is also quite cool. 
 I think one of the best moments for me was calling in an airstrike, and having the video link of 
 the pilot showing in the HUD while he comes hammering in to cremate your target.
  That aspect of the game was awesome, giving orders to choppers and tanks etc, and i could see how 
 you could get right into it if your were keen on military tactics and doing everything just right. 
 But i felt it lacked a bit of depth, I really didnt 'bond' with my teammates, they were good to 
 heal me now and then, and half the time i forgot about the drone. It would be cool if you could 
 switch and play as the other characters, even the vechicles. You can switch your view to other 
 vechicles, and look around and give orders, but i found it a bit clumsy. Overall I would recommend 
 renting it out on a rainy weekend and finishing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: M3RC3tHeShOoTeR
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 31, 2008 10:58 am PT
Review:  Ok so going though the single player was ok but nothing I haven't seen before. No cover lock which 
 is good. Sixaxis lean was diffrent. I like the target spotter and all the camera views of all the 
 players on multiplayer. The aiming system is kinda lame. Deffinately reminds me of a mix between 
 socom and rainbow 6. I haven't put much time in this game but from what I have played the game 
 is just average nothing to special with graphix weapons or destructables. Could have used more 
 character designs and leveling up system. I also wanted vehicles in this game advance warfighting 
 with no vehicles is lame. Poor emmersion. When I shoot someone in the face I want to see the brains 
 go out of the back of there head this isn't the 1980's. It just felt like there should have been 
 alot more to either the single or multiplayer modes. I was dissapointed but it has gotten me ready 
 for socom... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hacky13
Rating: 5
Date: Aug 4, 2008 6:35 pm PT
Review:  To me this game is just another boring and bland Tom Clancy game, the game is not too bad it's 
 just lacking that special something which makes you want to play a game. The graphics are good 
 not the best I've seen but no where near the worst, the controls or also good and laid out nicely 
 ( well for me ) , Game play bellow average , the story is just boring and not gripping I didn't 
 even bother finishing the game because the story was not gripping enough. This game follows the 
 pattern of all Tom Clancy games of being mid core, samey, bit boring, dull and lacking that special 
 something.
  The game had nothing groundbreaking or brilliant. 
  
  Overall the game is just dull, nothing new or exiting about it , no brilliant features or no intense, 
 heart stopping stroryline. It's just a bland first person shooter and a watse of time and money. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: goppizzi
Rating: 10
Date: Jul 22, 2008 12:45 pm PT
Review:  Thankfully, GRAW2 manages to eliminate some of the frustrating gameplay elements that appeared 
 in the first game, such as the annoying rooftop sniper hunts, which were more of an exercise in 
 trial and error than actual skill. Those have been replaced with some riveting set-piece battles, 
 including a Black Hawk Down scenario, as well as desperate defend-and-hold situations. And while 
 you can go through the game stealthily if you want by using suppressed weapons and sneaking about, 
 it's just as much fun -- if not more -- to go through with guns blazing. The large battles in GRAW2 
 are usually pretty awesome because vehicles are exploding around you, helicopters are buzzing above, 
 and the situation is going crazy. Perhaps the best moment in the campaign is when you're temporarily 
 deprived of your high-tech gear, which deprives you of all the oh-so-helpful targeting information 
 that can make the combat in GRAW2 feel a bit too easy at times. Suddenly having to locate and identify 
 your targets raises the intensity quite a bit. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Chaos_Eagle
Rating: 9
Date: Jul 4, 2008 1:59 pm PT
Review:  GRAW2 is a single player centrepiece. When I played through, I was half rolling on the floor in 
 awe and half laughing with joy. Anyway: you play as Captain Scott Mitchell, the leader of the elite 
 Ghost team sent to Mexico with 72 hours to stop a nuclear attack. You will be blowing stuff up, 
 killing people (peon slaughter!) and toka-toking out of the side of a Black Hawk. Want more? Read 
 on. 
  
  The gunplay is all strictly tactical and cover-orientated. If you're playing on the higher difficulties, 
 you'll be cut to pieces if you spend a couple of seconds out of cover (maybe even a second) . The 
 mechanics are fairly simple: run into a wall. It automatically puts you into cover and the game's 
 third-person camera is good at showing you what you're doing.
  
  There are some cool set-pieces with uniformly big explosions. There are many intense firefights, 
 which some people have compared to COD4 - a completely different game. Talking of explosions, they 
 look brilliant, much like the rest of the game. However, I have tried the multiplayer (split-screen) 
 and the environment graphics were terrible, like a kinda PS2.5. There are many shades of brown, 
 which is the game's main colour. You'll be playing in urban Mexican towns most of the time, namely 
 Juarez. 
  
  You might have a different way to approach each situation in the game, but most of the time, you 
 be to busy bossing your squad around and killing people (peon slaughter!) . The squad command is 
 very intuitive, with basically one button needed to perform many different things. For example, 
 point at the ground, they'll move there. Point at an enemy, they'll shoot him. The controls are 
 very well laid out and it becomes second nature if you play it enough. 
  
  The weapons in the game are brilliant, I think. You'll basically use the same gun (which will probably 
 become your favourite) until you unlock extras at the end. You will have to use some weapons in 
 the game. They are all appropriately high-tech and have great sound-affects and features, like 
 a gun that can be used from behind cover accurately without exposing yourself. 
  
  Overall, I thought the game was brilliant. There was no never a moment I didn't enjoy. Despite 
 it's short campaign, I was thoroughly impressed. Sadly, it looks like there won't be another GRAW, 
 with Ubi working on Endwar. If you like shooters and are not a great fan of other shooters' run 
 & gun style, then you should definitely try it. Go on, you know you want to
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: halo1hater
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jul 23, 2008 7:13 am PT
Review:  The first time I played this game was on the 360, and I said to myself: "Wow! this rocks! I wish 
 it would be released on the ps3.." and god spared mercy!
  First off, the AI are HIGHLY intelligent, they take cover, flank you, all the things an AI needs. 
 and more!
  The graphics are amazing and are showing some of the ps3's potential. But there are a few technical 
 flaws.
  The weapon customization is pretty good, and you can change weapons in 
  between levels.
  and the weapons have a great feel to them and sound amazing!
  and you have 
 to be smart about the weapons you choose. 
  for example, you may want to take a machine gun into battle, and there would be a large distance 
 between you and the enemy and if you picked a sniper rifle it would have made it much easier and 
 save some time. 
  The weapons you pick affect how difficult and how much time it takes to beat a level.
  But there's 
 not much of a reason to play again after you have beat it.
  
  with all this said I would go on, but there's much more to write about and I don't have much more 
 time. maybe I should have chose the sniper rifle? hm. 
  overall my rating is 10. why? 
  
  Graphics 10/10
  sound 10/10
  Value 8/10
  story 8/10
  Tilt 10/10
  gameplay 10/10
  AI 
 10/10 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3_cod4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 22, 2008 8:26 am PT
Review:  Even though I only played this game for a little time due to the fact that RSV and COD4 came out 
 around the same time I never really had a chance to play this game much. The story (I found) was 
 a bit hard and I really didn't like the feel to it. I would though say that it is the best in the 
 series except for the original. Tom Clancey did a good job making this game online and the rank 
 system. Am I the only one who loved the original 1st person-shooter Ghost Recon Jungle Storm, where 
 you controlled the 6-man team through the jungle? I felt that the firefighter mode made this game. 
 You can put 50 enemies on the map and face them by yourself or with 3 of your friends. I really 
 didn't play the story all that much so I can't tell you much about it. I think with all the other 
 games out there there's other ways of having more fun (like GTA4 or COD4.) Many of my friends say 
 that it is a waste of time. I think if your a fan of the original (GRAW) then get this game
  
  Verdict: I wouldn't get this game because of all the others out there. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ratchet20751
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jun 19, 2008 11:10 am PT
Review:  I really like military shooters and this one is an exceptional... exception.
  The graphics struck me right away as decent, great sound effects, loud and spectacular explosions, 
 and intense and immersive battles. One in particular stood out when you are pinned down in plaza 
 by soldiers and tanks and you get to call in an F-15 for air support and the pilot is talking to 
 you in the corner of the screen which all together gave me a sense of amazement. I like the fact 
 that you can customize your squad and armament before and during a mission and the on-screen HUD 
 is interesting. This is all I really have to say about it.
  filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler filler 
 filler filler 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tryfe_lyn
Rating: 8
Date: May 27, 2008 9:49 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 the sequel to Ubisoft's 2006 smash title released 
 for the Xbox 360, PS2 and PC. You take the control of Captain Scott Mitchell and his fellow 5th 
 Special Forces Group members (commonlys referred to as the Ghosts) in the midst of a border warfare 
 between the US and Mexico. You'll be given a variety of combat weapons to help achieve objectives 
 from elite night time solo missions to leading a mini army to take out specific targets. Where 
 the game really shines is the ability to control your supporting cast. You can point and click 
 to give directives or your can look through the first person view of said supporting members. Trying 
 to micro manage two squad teams, an APC and a mini chopper can get a bit hectic, but once you get 
 used to the gameplay mechanics, you should have no trouble with guiding these members to help you 
 create some heavy damage.
  
  Although the game feels like a port, the controls are very responsive. Character models and environments 
 look good for a ported game from a year ago, however, empty levels leave more to be desired. The 
 sound is great as all weapons and vehicles are on par with their real world counterparts. The story, 
 unfortuenately, leaves a bit more to be desired as your over the top eccentric commander will send 
 you on numerous missions in search of the dreadful WMDs. Once you finally destroy last of the dooms 
 day devices your congratulated with the all popular anti-climactic endings that can really hurt 
 the overall experience of the game. 
  
  If you're interested in stealth, action war-themed shooters, GRAW2 may provide you with an enjoyable 
 weekend with it's fairly solid single player campaign. The game does offer multiplayer, but I've 
 had no luck of participating in any matches. Good luck finding a server :?
  
  overall Score: 8.2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Corrosion
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 6, 2008 6:02 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 for the PS3 is a disappointing PS3 followup to an XBOX 360 game. If you're looking for an 
 excellent multiplayer game to enjoy, look away. PS3 GRAW 2 is weak in that category. If you want 
 a good single player story to play out for a low price this one is for you. But beware of many 
 missteps by Ubisoft.
  
  I had mixed reactions to the visuals. The graphics can be very hideous and very beautiful at times, 
 both for online and offline with the offline being the most inferior. Some missions look really 
 well done, especially in early solo missions. But as you progress, you will notice graphics taking 
 a turn for the worse. There is heavy aliasing (jaggy edges) , and this is most noticeable on an 
 HDTV. 
  
  One mission later in the campaign, "Failure is not an an Option" looks extremely poor as the distant 
 objects and buildings are jaggy on my 720p HDTV, from street power lines to the edges of the city 
 buildings. The textures possess little or no detail and the game is sometimes colorless with a 
 greyish tinge. One exception that should be of mention are a few cutscenes and scenarios, specifically 
 those focused on viewing the Mexican sunset and sky inside your chopper or from the ground. But 
 it's not enough to balance out the poor graphics mentioned which hinder the experience.
  
  Multiplayer feels half baked. The online lobby allows for no join-a-game-in-progress; This is completely 
 stupid, considering the majority of the games in the lobby are have already started, forcing you 
 to wait 10-15 minutes to join a match. The online gameplay is a waste of time anyway. 99% of the 
 available matches are TDM, and the action has no luster whatsoever. Your character from the 3rd 
 person perspective has a reduction in texture detail, and the option to lean back against a wall 
 found in single player has been taken away. So in effect, it has become a largely walk and shoot 
 match, and nothing exciting going on screen. What's sad is the amount of maps the game has to offer; 
 they've been all put to waste because of these aforementioned errors.
  
  The only redeeming value for PS3 GRAW 2 is the single player's storyline. It's dramatic and compelling, 
 especially the solo missions. My favorite ones are going inside rebel lines to blow up a downed 
 chopper, or leading your squad to destroy some missile launchers in a excellent finale. Unfortunately, 
 the AI for both your squadmates and the enemy are horribly stupid OR ridiculously good, sometimes 
 to to the point of silliness. Often times they'll stand in open fire or in some vulnerable position 
 while the enemy AI can have 20/20 vision from a mile away. 
  
  Now that said, GRAW 2 is an exceptional game only to played for the offline story and if is found 
 for the lowest price tag you can find. Don't look for anything else. 
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: TallonForce
Rating: 9
Date: May 3, 2008 6:28 am PT
Review:  The game is just simply a good game the single player is well played out, with large levels, and 
 a great story line. The new HUD is extremally easy to control and can be picked in about 2 minutes. 
 The game doesn't play really long, but it plays decently long. The AI isn't any thing to brag about 
 on the lower difficults as this game like GRAW was ment to be played on Ghost Recon (the hardest 
 level ) on this levl one shot will take you down witch makes this game alot more challanging. When 
 on this level your tatical abilaties will at times be tested. The AI are great on ghost recon but 
 lack in other difficulties. The multieplayer is a nice bounus especally for the campain mode, which 
 is alot of fun also. The majority of the online games however are team deathmatchs, whichs get 
 redundant after a week or two, so you take a break and pla in another week or 2. Just a great game 
 to have since it is much cheaper then a new game and is solid for awhile. Playing through the campain 
 will entertain you for a while, and the multi player is always solid to fall back on when you get 
 board of some of your other games. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: chapstickick12
Rating: 9
Date: May 1, 2008 1:51 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 Review (Playstation 3)
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  
  March 2006, Ubisoft raised 
 the bar to a new level for shooters with Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter (Xbox 360) . Ubisoft took 
 the time and made GRAW one of the greatest action games in history. Also, GRAW won numerous of 
 Game of The Year Awards. What made GRAW so different than other action games in 2006? Well the 
 first thing everyone noticed was the graphics. Ubisoft also took the same amount of time and effort 
 that they did on the graphics and made the gameplay nothing short of spectacular. However, for 
 every great game, there must be a better sequel.... Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 (GRAW2) proves 
 that statement.
  
  The very first thing you will notice about GRAW2 is the graphics. If you thought GRAW1's graphics 
 was taking it to the limit.... You got to see this. The very first thing I noticed about the largely 
 improved graphics is that you can actually see the stitching in your soldier's camo. That just 
 blew me away. The second thing I noticed is that you can actually see the velcro on his backpack. 
 That is what I call mind blowing for a video game. The face animations to not only your soldier, 
 but also to your teammates and the enemies are absolutely lifelike. The guns look very real and 
 the vehicles are vey detailed. The explosions to the game are definitely worth saying something 
 about. As a Game Programmer, I have no idea how Ubisoft made the explosions so real. For one of 
 the earlier missions in the game (and one of the most memorable also) , you and your team are running 
 across this construction site while there is mortar fire at your location. I was running near a 
 cement truck and then..... BOOM! Literally the truck turned into debris and it went up in flames. 
 I almost sh*t myself. Then I noticed pieces of the truck was everywhere in the construction site.
 
  
  If you played the first GRAW you would notice that the Single Player and the Multiplayer graphics 
 were completely different. In GRAW2 that still is the case. The multiplayer graphics definitely 
 got a HUGE overhaul from the last game which is very nice. The textures are much smoother and the 
 scenery is very pretty. A few graphical blemishes are noticeable on the clothing however.
  
  In GRAW2's campaign, the US and Mexico is in big war. The Mexican government is trying to make 
 nuclear weapons and guess what..... The ghosts are called into action. GRAW2 is relatively a short 
 game. Clocking in under six hours on the default difficulty setting. A longer single player would 
 of been better but oh well. The character that you play is named Captain Scott Mitchell. Mitchell 
 is a guy that doesn't ask questions and uses his gun as all the answers.
  
  GRAW2's Single Player gameplay is the best ever in any type of shooter. The covering system is 
 back from last year but it is mildly improved. Mitchell goes up to cover much faster this time 
 around. There are TONS of memorable moments in the game. From being stripped down to almost nothing 
 to getting all the firepower in the world. Your teammates AI are greatly improved also. For the 
 most part they know what to do but occasionally you will see them get in the line of fire and not 
 use cover. But Ubisoft did improve them a lot from the last game. For example in GRAW2, I was slowly 
 walking down a very quiet street and then I hear one of my teammates say "AMBUSH!" my whole team 
 dropped what they were doing and ran to the nearest cover and started to lay down covering fire 
 while I got settled in.
  
  The Cross-Com got a big improvement in GRAW2. In the Single Player, you can hold the Right Bumper 
 at any given time and you can see what your teammates are doing. You can also give commands in 
 the Cross-Com camera also. This feature also effects the drone and any type of support you have. 
 If you select the drone and hold the Right Bumper you can control where your drone can go. Its 
 an easier way for a tactical standpoint that's why Ubisoft put it in this year.
  
  Also, Ubisoft improved the Cross-Com in the multiplayer. Once you're in a game, hold the Right 
 Bumper and it will go into a first person perspective for the player that you are on. You can scroll 
 through the living players with the left and right directional buttons. The improved Cross-Com 
 for the multiplayer was definitely needed.
  
  The sound to this game is remarkable. Tons of chit-chat on the radio from command and your teammates. 
 If you have your teammates at "hold fire," you hear them whispering while at "fire at will," you 
 hear them shouting. General Keating is still a d*ckhead. haha. The music to the game is really 
 spot on. The GRAW2 music is slightly different than GRAW1. This time around it has a mexican twist 
 to it which sounds really cool. The gun sounds and explosions are spot and. The voice acting for 
 everyone is awesome.
  
  The multiplayer in GRAW1 was absolutely amazing and in GRAW2 it exceeds that. In GRAW2, you have 
 much more outfits to customize your guy and there's a lot of new features. The biggest change which 
 the fans asked for is clan support. Yes there is clan support in GRAW2. To be honest, GRAW2 has 
 one of the best clan features that I have seen in any type of online game. You have the basic leader 
 and then the leader can assign roles for the clan members. The higher rankings in the clan are 
 allowed to search for clan matches and invite people in the clan. "Did you just say clan matches?" 
 Yes I did. GRAW2 has a clan match options right in the game so you don't need to go to any third 
 party site or anything like that.
  
  The multiplayer in GRAW2 goes up to 16 players on the PSN and up to 4 players in local play. Now 
 the 16 player matches is where the game hurts. In the 16 player matches, there is a lot of framerate 
 problems, lag issues, and being booted. The framerate to the 16 player matches drops almost to 
 nothing at times. Especially if players are using grenade launchers and rocket launchers. The lag 
 is horrendous and being booted is a must. At least 2 players get booted almost every game. You 
 can prevent these issues if the host makes the game for under 16 players. 14 players still has 
 these same issues but its less frequent. 12 players and under is the way to go. I haven't seen 
 any type of slowdown or lag or anything for that matter with 12 player rooms.
  
  Now the multiplayer options haven't really changed much. You still have 20+ game modes to choose 
 from. Here is the more popular gametypes: Team Sharpshooter, Takedown, Siege, Team Territory, and 
 Last Man Standing. GRAW2 does have a Co Op campaign which is completely different from the Single 
 Player.
  
  So does GRAW2 live up to the hype? Yes it definitely does. If you are still skeptical about buying 
 GRAW2, at least go on the PSN and download the Single Player demo to check Ghost Recon Advanced 
 Warfighter 2 out for yourself.
  
  ---------------------------------------------------------------
  Gameplay- 9.5.... Calling the 
 gameplay astonishing is a HUGE understatement.
  
  Sound- 9.5.... Absolutely amazing. The chit-chat from your teammates feels like you are really 
 in the war.
  
  Graphics- 9.... The Single Player graphics are unbelievable. The Multiplayer still needs a little 
 work but its still very nice.
  
  Replay- 9.... The amazing multiplayer is back in GRAW2 with some new tweaks. Single Player is very 
 short which hurts.
  
  Overall (Not Average) - 9.2/10 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: financeranger
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 6, 2008 7:12 am PT
Review:  First off thegood
  1. The graphics were stunning at times, make sure you look out of the chopper while you fly otherwise 
 you may miss some good sequences. Look at the mules tires, they look real, the metal objects shine, 
 the light broke through at dawn and dusk moments, and IR looks authentic ( I have walked many a 
 night through 0% illumination areas using IR) . 
  2. Destructible environments (the cars make great oversized frag grenades if you blow them up) .
 
  3. The Soldiers and enemy AI are quite good. It reminds me of COD4 enemy AI. I never spend my 
 time managing soldiers (take cover, shoot now, etc) . They act as Soldiers should. 
  4. The enemy AI is very good too. I played one level 4 times and each time the opening enemy armor 
 vehicle did something different (based on my different actions)
  ****spoiler****
  5. I liked the attachments on each level, no operative is truly at it alone, so use the tanks, 
 UAVs, Stryker, little bird, or local Soldiers when they are available) . 
  6. Diverse weapons let you get a different experience
  7. Weapons selection was pretty good. 
 Enough diversity early on to keep you entertained, and as you play more became available.
  8. Decent length, definitely not a push-over. You will not breeze through this one without using 
 all of your skills (using attachments, shooting hard to get enemy, basic tactics) . 
  9. Thirteen levels of rebels that love to spill your blood.
  10. Useful action tutorial. Most 
 tutorials are shooting paper targets and they are lame. This one was quick, to the point and ended 
 with a full scale mini operation.
  11. Easy and fun multiplayer mode. I logged in and was tagging others within minutes.
  12. Quick 
 mission mode lets you clean up and earn all the decorations
  13. I paid $23 for it (on eBay)
  Now the bad
  1. I fumbled with the R3 button to get up and 
 down, this is more on me, but I was constantly missing it and as a result getting whacked. Sometimes 
 cover becomes sticky and you have to break free just to toss a grenade or aim and shoot.
  2. Occasionally I would shoot the ground in front of me and as a result either be embarrassed or 
 kill myself (in the case of using the anti-tank weapon) . This would happen with grenades too (awkward 
 arc) .
  With 2 bad and 13 good this game gets a 87%. It is a solid addition to any collection. 
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: grand17
Rating: 8
Date: Apr 1, 2008 1:55 pm PT
Review:  Gameplay: The story is pretty good. You dont ever feel like its getting repetitive.. but that might 
 just be because it's over in a flash lol. 
  Positives: The box looks nice haha. Seriously tho this game could've been great had they added 
 a few more hours of campaign and made the PS3 versions online as good as the XBL version. The graphics 
 are pretty good tho. Innovative ideas like calling in chopper support and controlling the tanks 
 and satelittes is cool.
  Negatives: Enemy AI is very poor and easily exploited. Multiplayer doesn't let you hug walls like 
 the campaign does. No offline coop mode. Can't use 2 players from same house online. In my short 
 online experience (2 hours) not one person used the mic so I honestly don't even know if mics are 
 supported.
  Rent or buy: Rent, a week is plenty of time to get thru the story and grow sick of the multiplayer. 
 I only paid $30 and i feel ripped off. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 9
Date: Mar 30, 2008 7:00 pm PT
Review:  I would not put this game in the category of a "must buy," but it definitely is good solid game. 
 The graphics are very good especially in the campaign mode. Surprisingly, I enjoy the campaign 
 more than I do with the multiplayer. I like the fact that you can control your squad and you can 
 cover behind walls only in the campaign. The multiplayer, although fun, has some faults. First 
 of all, the controls aren't the best I've seen. For some reason, I find it difficult to control 
 your own movement in the game, like your character is a stiff board. The is no jump which also 
 feels like your glued to the ground which doesn't feel right either. On the up side, there are 
 a great variety of weapons to use which is pretty awesome and there are many game modes. 
  You play as Captain Scott Mitchell with a squad of 3 other "Ghosts", or highly trained soldiers. 
 Your squad always has 1 rifleman, 1 grenadier or a gunner, and another riflemen, a medic, a marksmen, 
 or an antitank guy. Mexico is trying to sign a peace agreement with the U. S., but Mexican rebels 
 try to sop the agreement from happening. So basically you go to Mexico and kill Mexicans... lots 
 of Mexicans. It might sound boring, but this game is more for game play than story, though it does 
 have a good one =) . The online play is great even though it may not be as good as the 360's online 
 community, it can still be tons of fun. You can make and join clans, increase your rank and customize 
 your character. For all the stuff that's out there for the PS3 which has had a shaky start, this 
 game is definitely worth buying. This isn't the best shooter around, but definitely is a game worth 
 taking a look at.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: differentiation
Rating: 6
Date: Mar 20, 2008 10:00 am PT
Review:  Not only is this another game derived from Tom Clancy and the folks from Red Storm, but this is 
 a Ghost Recon game, which means quasi-futuristic weapons and tactics applied to a bleak game environment, 
 along with a corny plot.
  
  The game offers a tutorial that goes through all the basics, but if you're a GR veteran, you'll 
 know that you'll be squinting at the screen most of the time to pick off enemies before they can 
 off you with uncanny accuracy.
  
  The game features a drone you can pilot around the map to help you scout ahead, and this is a nice 
 feature added to the game. You can order your teammates around as usual, but I found myself to 
 be doing most of the work. Where the fun if you can't have the fun to yourself, instead of giving 
 orders to AI to knock out objectives and let them have all the excitement. You can also pick up 
 enemy weapons and pilot vehicles like the MULE.
  
  As you may have noticed, I'm not a big fan of any games that has to do with the Tom Clancy franchise 
 for the reasons listed in the intro. It could've been better, but the games in that universe keeps 
 falling short, he should take a note from the folks at COD4. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Guccio312
Rating: 8.5
Date: Feb 6, 2008 8:46 am PT
Review:  I would not put this game in the category of a "must buy," but it definitely is good solid game. 
 The graphics are very good especially in the campaign mode. Surprisingly, I enjoy the campaign 
 more than I do with the multiplayer. I like the fact that you can control your squad and you can 
 cover behind walls only in the campaign. The multplayer, although fun, has some faults. First of 
 all, the controls aren't the best I've seen. For some reason, I find it difficult to control your 
 own movement in the game, like your character is a stiff board. The is no jump which also feels 
 like your glued to the ground which doesn't feel right either. On the up side, there are a great 
 variety of weapons to use whch is pretty awesome and there are many game modes. T he campaign mode 
 is super fun and that is where this game is at its best. This isn't the best shooter around, but 
 definitely is a game worth taking a look at. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: grall23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 27, 2008 1:08 am PT
Review:  graw for the ps3 is much better compared to the pc version where in the ps3, its a third person 
 shooter but on the pc, its a first person shooter. graw looks better on the ps3 probably because 
 the ps3 supports 1080p. difficulty is also well suited to casual and hardcore gamers on the ps3, 
 unlike the pc where the difficulty is too high for most people. on the ps3, you can unlock rewards 
 like information about weapons, vehicles, and soldiers like captain mitchell. the graphics and 
 gameply on the ps3 are the best ive seen for any graw game. on the ps3 you can do a "back to wall" 
 move to take cover and then shoot out of the corners or over cover. there is also a gun called 
 the MRC where you can use a camera to shoot over corners without exposing yourself. this may seem 
 easy but on higher difficulty levels it might be lethal if you expose even a little bit of your 
 head. sound on graw is boring and mostly uniform without much variation. multiplayer on graw is 
 bad, making the single player a strong point. if the multiplaye was improved, graw would get at 
 least a 9.5. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jackbob666
Rating: 10
Date: Jan 24, 2008 1:13 pm PT
Review:  I've heard a lot about how the 360 version of GRAW 2 is some how better than the PS3 version graphically. 
 Personally I can't tell the difference! Graw 2 for the PS3 is beautiful. The game play is top notch 
 like its predecessor. You play as Captain Scott Mitchell with a squad of 3 other "Ghosts", or highly 
 trained soldiers. Your squad always has 1 rifleman, 1 grenadier or a gunner, and another riflemen, 
 a medic, a marksmen, or an antitank guy. Mexico is trying to sign a peace agreement with the U. S., 
 but Mexican rebels try to sop the agreement from happening. So basically you go to Mexico and kill 
 Mexicans... lots of Mexicans. It might sound boring, but this game is more for gameplay than story, 
 though it does have a good one =) . The online play is great even though it may not be as good as 
 the 360's online community, it can still be tons of fun. You can make and join clans, increase 
 your rank and customize your character. For all the stuff that's out there for the PS3 which has 
 had a shaky start, this game is definetley worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: FireNForget
Rating: 8.5
Date: Jan 18, 2008 12:43 pm PT
Review:  Ubisoft Paris succeeded in recreating the look and feel of GRAW1 created by Grin for PC while intensifying 
 the SP campaign and throwing in some cool goodies to boot.
  
  First the visuals: The visual aspect of every facet of the campaign is polished. Characters are 
 rendered with beautiful models and textures and the mocap is first rate. The havok physics engine 
 clearly shines brighter here than the UT engine used in RB6V with viceral explosions and destructable 
 environments. I love the addition of tracer contrails whizzing past your head in a firefight; very 
 nice touch.
  
  Gameplay: The gameplay is very good; if you've played GRAW on PC you'll feel right at home (provided 
 you've switched to FPV, more on this later) . 
  
  Cross-com 2.0 rocks! Not only is it every bit as good as the Cross-com 1.0 you remember, this time 
 around it silhouettes enemys behind cover, so if you happen to have a 50 cal sniper rifle handy 
 you can still get your headshot on. There are other gadgets and support options (like air and armor 
 support) but I don't want to spoil too much of it for you, just know that it's great.
  
  I found the AI to be a little easy, and while aggressive at times, the accuracy of their shots 
 was a little off, especially compared to Rainbow 6.
  
  The weapon loadout is very good, but sometimes changes depending on the mission. They should have 
 allowed the flexibility of all weapons for every level (There is a MR-C with a gun cam which is 
 very cool, but not always an available option) . Unfortunately the weapon customization is virtually 
 non existent; you're stuck with what ever optics or silencing options they give you on each weapon.
 
  
  The missions are designed very well and as someone who has played through COD4 first, I can see 
 a lot of similarities; you get to mow people down in a heli, and you get a few similarly feeling 
 epic battles (in fact more epic battles then in COD4) .
  
  Controls: The control schema works very well for lone wolf, or squad based combat. The cover system 
 is very GOW (or Uncharted if you prefer) . Like Uncharted, you have the ability to switch shoulder 
 views which is very handy when behind a corner. As you can tell by now, the game is 3rd person 
 by default. I balked at this at first as I came from the PC playing Tom Clancy games and 3rd person 
 view just seemed sacrilegious. It wasn't until after I finished the campaign that I discovered 
 you could switch to FPV in the options menu. Oddly enough the 3rd person view grew on me and I 
 found it worked very well for this game, actually the gunplay mechanics mesh a little better in 
 3PV because you can see whether you are oriented left or right whe n behind cover. Unfortunately, 
 like Rainbow 6 Vegas, there is no sprint button (this boggles my mind why the refusal to include 
 a run button on Tom Clancy games for PS3?? It's been a staple of the TC games for PC from the get 
 go) .
  
  Sound: I loved all the SFX. Weapons had distinctly different "music" to them, explosions were theatric, 
 and the game's musical score suited the gameplay very well.
  
  Online: The fatal flaw of the game is the online. The lack of a server browser where you're able 
 to pick and choose a server with a decent ping and with some players in it hurts, but the actual 
 gameplay mechanics pale in comparison to the campaign. The cover system disappears in online play 
 (at least in co-op it did) . The weapons, while plentiful, have no customization (I never managed 
 to find an assault rifle with a scope?? Maybe I need to unlock it? WTF??) and you have to choose 
 them in a very limited amount of time while the game is in progress (you're allowed what feels 
 like 10 seconds to make you selections before you're stuck with what you have) . The straw that 
 broke the camels back for me was the character movement. I'm not sure if it was due to server lag 
 (since there's no server browser I don't have a clue) but movement feels like you're on roller 
 skates; you move a little and you character moves a little more than you wanted. This has happened 
 more than once, and what leads me to believe it is not server lag is the fact that I can't see 
 framerate drops and the "skating" effect happens all the time.
  
  This is undoubtedly the better of the Tom Clancy games available for the PS3. Get this game for 
 the campaign; it's longer then COD4 and every bit as much fun. Don't hold your breath for online 
 though, as it's inexcusably bad. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MoNsTeR-GaMeR
Rating: 9
Date: Jan 12, 2008 2:16 am PT
Review:  I've heard a lot about how the 360 version of GRAW 2 is some how better than the PS3 version graphically. 
 Personally I can't tell the difference! Graw 2 for the PS3 is beautiful. The game play is top notch 
 like its predecessor. You play as Captain Scott Mitchell with a squad of 3 other "Ghosts", or highly 
 trained soldiers. Your squad always has 1 rifleman, 1 grenadier or a gunner, and another riflemen, 
 a medic, a marksmen, or an antitank guy. Mexico is trying to sign a peace agreement with the U. S., 
 but Mexican rebels try to sop the agreement from happening. So basically you go to Mexico and kill 
 Mexicans... lots of Mexicans. It might sound boring, but this game is more for gameplay than story, 
 though it does have a good one =) . The online play is great even though it may not be as good as 
 the 360's online community, it can still be tons of fun. You can make and join clans, increase 
 your rank and customize your character. For all the stuff that's out there for the PS3 which has 
 had a shaky start, this game is definetley worth buying. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Readd1
Rating: 7.5
Date: Dec 30, 2007 1:49 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 was another title I was eagerly anticipating in 2007 but yet again I was let down. I thought 
 the story was quite good but the multiplayer was, in a word, dreadful.
  
  First, the story. Most of the missions are very good apart from the obligatory training mission 
 *yawn* with the cross-com giving the game its modern feel. The weapons and vehicles in-game are 
 very useful and surprisingly easy to manage. Voice acting is good althought the script does turn 
 typically Tom Clancy (i. e. full of gun-ho pro-American nonsense!)
  
  Online mode, however, is the worst of any game out for next-gen so far. Games without an online 
 mode have better online modes! The rank system makes no sense seeing as how everything is unlocked 
 from the start and it is almost impossible to shoot anyone as everyone "glides" across the floor 
 with lightning speed - rather like a PS2 game which is unacceptable for a 40 next-gen game! However, 
 the maps are quite good - the only bonus in my eyes. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Protector99
Rating: 9.5
Date: Dec 28, 2007 5:19 pm PT
Review:  Well..... this game is so much Fun!!!!!!!! I could not put it down no matter what!!!!! The most 
 realistic game i have ever seen, twice as good as
  phony COD4. But the gameplay is so good and solid i have never seen anything like this in a modern 
 day war game!!!! Like is very good length too!
  Took me a good 12-15 hours to beat the game and im no noobie.
  If you are looking for a game 
 to pick up please buy it!!!!!
  You will not be dissaponited trust me like nothing you have ever played!!!!!!!!!!!!!
  
  
 
  
  
  
  Graphics:9.5
  Gameplay:10.0
  Sound:10.0
  
  So there you go guys, i love it am im sure you will to!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Doublesunday
Rating: 8.5
Date: Dec 8, 2007 8:18 pm PT
Review:  Due to the high price of games, I tend to rent often. This however was one of the few games that 
 I decided to buy, after hearing a lot of good feedback about it. You will notice a lot about this 
 game initially that will really give you a feel for just how realistic they decided to go when 
 designing it. I personally enjoyed having my own crew of men that I could give orders to. Although 
 nothing seems completely revolutionary about this game, it definetly has an incredible blend of 
 some very recent ideas in gaming. Graphics are great (although I dont like saying that about any 
 ps3 game, because well of course they are great) , and the online gameplay is classic, yet fun. 
 My only problem with this game after getting pretty good at it is that there is a lot about the 
 online setup (not the gameplay) that needs some refurbishing. A few examples: the way you gain/lose 
 experience seems kind of thrown together (I really enjoy the way COD4 does it, everything is updated 
 instantly, but in GRAW2 you have to wait every 10 minutes to see what your score is, usually only 
 to find out you actually lost points) , there doesn't seem to be a lot of options if your hosting 
 a game (I havn't found a way to invite friends to games, maybe I'm just an idiot) , and there aren't 
 a whole lot of filter options. Lets say I wanted to only search for games that are not filled up... cant 
 do it. You get the whole list of games, full or not full. Its just a bunch of little things that 
 I think could use some tweeking. If you don't plan on playing this game online, then rent it and 
 beat the story because it's not very long. If you enjoy online shooters, then I'd say think about 
 buying this (look into COD4 also) . 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UNSEEN_ASSASSIN
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 30, 2007 9:40 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon Advance Warfighter 2 is an excellent squad based tacticle shooter. The commands dont 
 take too long to learn and, once you do learn them, the are easy to remember and use effectively. 
 The new Command Full View is a huge improvement from GRAW's tiny little screen in the corner. Being 
 able to stay behind the action and tell your squad where to go from their view is muche easier 
 than worrying about enemies while trying to command them. 
  Also the M. U. L. E is very helpful when fighting off annoying helicopters. You simply walk up to 
 the back and select "Fill Ammo" and you can instantly select new weapons. Once you get back to 
 the game you are also fully healed. Sometimes, though, when you would tell the M. U. L. E to regroup 
 it would get stuck on things like a lamp post. Fortunately, you can go int the CFV (Command Full 
 View) and drive it around the measly obstacle.
  
  Overall the game is very fluid, easily learned, and is very fun to play. I give it two thumbs up 
 and would recommend it to other people. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Breackneckboy
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 21, 2007 8:07 am PT
Review:  GRAW2 is an amazing tactical shooter that offers really intense combat and real use of tactics. You 
 are in the shoes of a one mysterious Scott Mitchell.
  Despite being a bit silent, he is a rather cool character in a sort of way.
  
  Battle sequences 
 are excellent. While you have to hold off Mexican rebels, it feels like you just stepped into hell, 
 with all those bullets whizzing past and loads of excellent gunshot sounds. It actually gives you 
 the sense that one mistake and you are dead!
  
  Sound is awesome, grenades and cars exploding, bullets whizzing past, you won't need to enlist 
 in the army as this game would give you a glimpse of what its like in a real battle.
  
  But the bad points are mostly because of how long it lasts, which is a span of 5 hours. And, that 
 annoying General who keeps barking orders all the time! Really, sometimes these conversations are 
 out of place. While you are in a middle of an outrageous firefight, the President would have an 
 inspiring speech that would make you cry, but by the time its over, you would be chucked into reality 
 fiercely and makes you wish you had focused more on the firefight.
  
  Still, this game deserves a 9.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: speedjunkie4
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 16, 2007 9:19 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is the first Ghost Recon game on the PS3, and boy it is good. You play as a US solider in 
 the future fighting Mexican rebles in Juarez. The rebles purpose is to stop Mexico from signing 
 a join security agreement between the US and Canada. As a leader of a small unit of you and three 
 other charcters controlled by the A. I., you try to stop the rebel offensive. Soon, all of Juarez 
 is up in flames, and you are trying to make sure to stop the war. Great story, eh? Anyways, the 
 technology is awesome, because you are fighting in the FUTURE! And the enemy A. I. is good enough 
 for me, but sometimes, the enemy hides behind cars that can be eaisly blown up by shooting the 
 car, which means a easy kill. The variety of weapons is also the best i have ever seen, with some 
 of the coolest looking weapons i ever seen. Also, you get drones, a M. U. L. E., which is basically 
 a armory on wheels. But, the real beef is in the multiplayer. It browws the cool customization 
 from Rainbow Six: Vegas, but why dident Ubisoft add campign co-op? Also, the controls are just 
 too complicated for the PS3 controller. That is why practise in the tutorial is crucial. All in 
 all, GRAW 2 is a awesome game, and basically R6: Vegas in the future, but it kinda misses the mark. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: g3noc1d3r
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 12, 2007 4:37 pm PT
Review:  When you are thinking of ports to the ps3 your thinking it is gonna be bad but graw 2 reveals that 
 there is hope for ps3 ports and games. It delivers new sixaxis control great ai amazing graphics 
 for the single player. With multiplayer it has new maps great coop expirence with someone else 
 to back you up. But there is also great action and ranking system along with creating clans. Over 
 all it is a great package for ps3 owners and a great showing of what the ps3 can do with ai and 
 tactics. The ai as i said before is very impressive and mabe even better than the other games but 
 i have to say it is one of the best games out there for ps3 tactical shooters. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 11, 2007 12:44 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Graphics are phenomenal. This is what Rainbow Six Vegas should have looked like! Lighting, environment, 
 menus, everything looks amazing.
  
  - Sound: excellent. Crystal clear, with good use of surround sound.
  
  - Gameplay: controls 
 are relatively easy, although leaning against a wall can be tricky.
  
  - Interesting missions: the missions all have something unique that keeps your interest level up. 
 The video cut scenes are a nice touch. Typically each mission requires a different weapon set to 
 effectively complete it.
  
  THE BAD:
  - Online mode constantly loses connection. Very frustrating to be doing well through 75% of a game, 
 only to have it end prematurely due to a lost connection. And this isn't a problem with my connection, 
 because other games (ex. Resistance) work great online. Some lag issues during online play as well.
 
  
  - Team control is tricky, and they oftentimes don't listen to your commands. I also found the team 
 getting in the way a lot; at critical moments that can be very frustrating.
  
  - Some control issues: using cover can be tricky. Some aiming controls are tricky too. Controlling 
 the flying camera and tank is tough too. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wuflungdung
Rating: 9
Date: Nov 6, 2007 4:20 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon has always been one of my favourite games, it was always ported well unlike Rainbow 
 Six. Ghost Recon 2 was a very disapointing change to the Ghost Recon Series. But GRAW 2 has returned 
 alot to the old glory days.
  
  Single player is the weakest part of this game, its the usual crap we console games are served 
 up. Its short, the usual storyline and linear. All in all a waste of money if thats all there was 
 to this game.
  
  But Multiplayer more than makes up for single players shortcomings. Whether offline with 3 mates 
 or online with complete strangers it is a lot of fun. There are so many modes to choose from and 
 many many maps.
  
  Offline co-op really is the pinnacle of this game. Co-op terrorist hunt is extremely difficult 
 with very intelligent enemies. If you dont work together as a team you wont last very long. Online 
 multiplayer is enjoyable, but really depends on the people you play with. When you mix and idiot 
 with a microphone you don't get any suprises. With the right group it can be extremely fun and 
 exciting, but otherwise I prefer to stick to offline multiplayer.
  
  If you got a few buddies and want a challenge, I highly recommend getting GRAW 2, otherwise your 
 money is better off in other directions. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: horkmasterflex
Rating: 7.5
Date: Nov 3, 2007 3:08 pm PT
Review:  Verdict: Rent before you buy.
  
  I played the demo and made the smart decision of renting the game instead of purchasing it. I loved 
 the demo and played it over and over again, but it is not an effective example of the game as a 
 whole. What really bothers me about the game is the response time. You move the stick to the edge 
 and a fraction of a second later, Mitchell moves his weapon to the side. It should happen simultaneously. 
 I feel this is very detrimental to the gameplay because it gives a feeling of sluggishness and 
 unpreparedness that should not be present in a squad of military elites.
  
  However, the visuals are great and, all sluggishness aside, so is the gameplay. This game is a 
 solid foundation for GRAW3, which I will expect great things from. Thanks for reading! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Romer318
Rating: 9.5
Date: Nov 4, 2007 11:28 am PT
Review:  Well what can I say about this game, its great. I can tell you this much, when you pick this game 
 up, you won't be putting it down. Whats really crazy is that you won't be playing it so much for 
 its story. The online mode is the key to this game that makes it so much fun. The hours and hours 
 of fun you will have playing this game online, trying to get your rank up and just owning people 
 will satisfy even the most grizzled gamer. The only downside that I would have to say this game 
 has is the camera angle in the main story. It can get a little bad at some times, leaving you in 
 some situations not being able to see whats over the cliff, or behind this wall. Which will lead 
 to some... aggregating deaths I should say. But other then that, and the fact that its a short 
 game that should only take you about 7-10 hours to beat. This game is a must have for all Tom Clancy 
 game lovers. Heck, even if you don't like Tom Clancy and you just like having fun, pick this game 
 up, I promise you will not be disappointed. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 30, 2007 3:16 pm PT
Review:  ok.. lets look at the good.. great graphics and effects and the weapons and the online &amp; co-op 
 r great modes to play.. maps r to great and fun to play online... and the controls r good to and 
 a good tactical game ok lets look at the bad the SINGLE-PLAYER game is to short.. and the game suppots 
 16 players and RESISTANCE suppots 40.. ok..40.. vs.16 and no good unlockables to and some online 
 complaints ok.1. Ro..2 ghost recon AW2.. is a good game for the ps3.. but RESISTANCE got 40 players 
 and the SINGLE-PLAYER is great... but GHOST RECON AW2 is a good game for the ps3.. complaints online... but 
 the online is still fun to play on it 
::::::

::::::
UserName: theone332
Rating: 9
Date: Oct 23, 2007 5:24 pm PT
Review:  Basically its a great game with intense action playing online and story mode. Its graphics are 
 amAzing and one of the good games that has come out in the ps3 shook library. Its a great game 
 and i have to say its one of my favorite games of all. I have this game for my ps3 psp and also 
 pc but out of the three the ps3 is the best version of course with its superb graphics action and 
 multiplayer capabilities. iF U LIKE ACTION WAR GENRES FPS then u gotta get this game and what the 
 others say like bugs and other flaws i have seen none it plays perfect for me soo.... thats it 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: five01st
Rating: 8
Date: Oct 15, 2007 10:39 am PT
Review:  Though the first Ghost Recon game provided a weak introduction to the cross-com function, Graw 
 2 has improved it exceptionally. The use of the cross-com is now useful and helpful in fire-fights, 
 especially on the harder difficulties. But, sadly, there are a few minor annoyances. The first 
 problem is that where in Ghost Recon 1, if a helicopter under your command flew into the battlefield, 
 you could simply place it under Aggressive and let it automatically target and take down enemies 
 while you can continue taking down targets. In Graw 2, in the many cases of having an APC, M4A1 
 Bradley Tank, or a helicopter requisitioned, you cannot simply place them under an aggressive stance; 
 instead you must command the crew to fire upon a target you select using the HUD, map, or the cross-com 
 video features. In cases where RPG troopers or where enemy APCs are located this means having to 
 switch back and forth between the helicopter, and tank at times to repeatedly target new hostiles, 
 while the enemy AI is seamlessly targeting your friendlies. Of course this would be less of a problem 
 if you could forcefully take over and aim the guns yourself, but the AI takes over and attempts 
 to shoot the target, often missing or claiming it has no line of sight, when the enemy is in clear 
 view. Also the crew will state a phrase each time an enemy is killed. Annoyingly, it is the same 
 phrase over and over. Thankfully good game play drowns out the bad. All in all, the firefights 
 are intense, and your squad members are fairly good shots. In Graw 2 you can choose your weapon 
 before missions, though on some your previous weapon used on the level earlier is given to you 
 for use in the next. Also, a M. U. L. E. is given, which is a medium sized drone, on some missions 
 allowing you to go to it and change weapons, and resupply your ammo, including grenades. UAVs are 
 also used to scout ahead and target enemies with a red diamond, as long as the UAV remains over 
 the area. Also, unlike in Ghost Recon, Graw 2 allows players to pick up an enemys weapon, and 
 the enemys weapons range from the common G36k carbine to machine guns.
  
  Multiplayer offers a different game play style than the Singleplayer did, and guns that reappear 
 in the Multiplayer that were shown in the Singleplayer Campaign have different accuracies, damage, 
 and kickback values. Even how the avatar throws the grenades is different from Singleplayer. Also 
 you can choose four different types of people to play as, a rifleman, a marksman, a machine gunner, 
 or a grenadier. The host of online games has a choice whether or not these choices will affect 
 which guns you are using. Eg. A marksman with a rifle cannot handle it as effectively as a rifleman, 
 and so on. In Multiplayer, a massive range of weapons are available, providing tons of variety, 
 where stronger guns provide bigger kickback than others with less. Each of the maps for multiplayer 
 are very original, though most are urban, with lots of close quarters fighting, though there are 
 some long range maps with a fair amount of cover spread out to allow teams to move in close. Thankfully, 
 you can also pick up an opponents weapon for use.
  The actual game play is fast and addictive and includes an online ranking system. Sadly, points 
 are only added if your team wins, and points are lost from your online profile if your team loses. 
 This causes people to leave games before they are concluded because one team was losing. Also getting 
 stuck on one team whose members do not know how to play gets to be a downer, even if you are top 
 of the team, you will still suffer as a whole. The ranking system is ridiculous because some of 
 the people gain points because they were on the winning teams side, not because they were a good 
 team player, and some of the people lose points because they were on the losing teams side, not 
 because they did not know how to play. However, this game is worth the money, and because the rank 
 does NOT affect online game play (no unlockables weapons or anything of that sort) , you can just 
 ignore it and join a match to have fun. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TKT100
Rating: 9.5
Date: Oct 15, 2007 7:09 am PT
Review:  As I've played thorugh some of the game's single player mode. the story is like a movie and the 
 gameplay is extremely fluid with the surroundings, characters, water, etc. The game has a stunning 
 graphical exprenience to play through. The lighting on the maps make hard to see yet then when 
 you know how to get around that blindly light or dead still darkness, you will be able to play 
 with style. (Well not everyone) The multiplayer is a whole different thing, with all the things 
 in it that I have said plus a big variety of maps, perfect weapons, game types, and costimization 
 features. The player can create a costom game type if the that is what they want. It has all the 
 basics too, like Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, CTF, etc. But you can then change those modes around 
 it to a specail mode for you and your friends to play and everyone around world. This is a great 
 game that a fan of shooters should buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Olly464
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 6, 2007 5:18 am PT
Review:  So Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2 for the PS3 came out later then the other versions, 
 i. e. on the PC and 360. Therefore I expected something extra on the PS3 version, a little something 
 more. I'm happy to tell you that from the first explosion to the first successful ambush maneuver, 
 you'll be completely drawn to this game. I'm not saying that the other versions aren't good, but 
 visually this game is a real treat on the PS3 (just look at that smoke!)
  
  Of course, a feeling of being in a film along the lines of 'Black Hawk Down' ensues in some parts 
 of the game, such as riding on the gun in your very own blackhawk, and viewing a massive, highly 
 detailed war-torn city with very realistic smoke creeping up and covering the skies. Or being ambushed 
 by a unlimited amount of enemies, whilst you and your teammates are fighting for your lives, waiting 
 for extraction. I won't spoil the story, but this part (and the bits following) are the most adrenaline 
 pumped of all, and of most games too. So for the gameplay I would say that although the duck, shoot, 
 duck, shoot method of gaming gets a little tedious sometimes, theres enough variety to keep you 
 going ooh throughout a level. This is achieved by introduction of new, hi-tech weapons that no 
 other game I've played contains, the addition of extra units to control (tanks, helicopters, Mexican 
 royalists) and a mixture of stealth and all-out war. Game play = 9
  
  The graphics, as I stated earlier, just blew me away. My anti-PS3 friend saw it and stated some 
 rubbish about the 'smoke particles' or something not being very good, because he ' read it somewhere 
 on the internet'. Well I have played the game through and can tell you it looks amazing, obviously 
 not the best graphics ever (but close) . Enemies and your character and your teammates are highly 
 detailed, the HUD and maps look very near-future and militaristic, making you feel like you ARE 
 in the army. Vehicles are just fun, as theres nothing more fun in this game then targeting your 
 Abrams tank to attack a truck surrounded by enemies, and then seeing all the red diamonds turn 
 white, indicating death for all who appose you. (enemies spotted by you or your teammates have 
 a red diamond around them, so you can see them through walls or in the dark) . Night Vision actually 
 works really well, even better then splinter cell! It adds a real mood to the game, just like the 
 night vision shots of fighting in Iraq.
  Graphics = 10
  
  Sound is... interesting. Guns sound cool and realistic, your teammates have a little personality, 
 along with your commander and supporting crew who tell you important storyline things. Even though 
 at the end of the game it sounds like your commanding officer is coming out of the closet, most 
 voice acting is army-like, and the Mexicans sound like Nacho Libre, so all is good there. Sound 
 = 8
  
  Story is, well, pretty basic. Some less fortunate people who hate the US get a hold of some soviet 
 nukes and threaten any major city in the US! oh no! Quick, send in Captain Mitchell and his ghosts 
 to save the day. Seriously though it's enough to keep you wanting to stick it to the Mexicans, 
 with the story setting the pace of the different levels. Story = 7.5
  
  I haven't really played the multi-player much, but its a lot more tactical then games such as Warhawk, 
 so if your looking for something with a bit more strategy, and with an awesome single player, choose 
 this.
  
  Overall this game is pretty solid, a nice addition to my PS3 games. If you think call of duty was 
 a bit too bland, Resistance too wacky, and ninja gaiden too hard, then this game fits well into 
 the middle, offering some all-out blasting, some stealthy tactical play, awesome graphics and a 
 taste to go save Orlando Bloom who's stupidly fallen out the black hawk (blackhawk down jk lol) . 
 Overall this game gets a 8.5, just because it's a little bit too short.
  Overall = 8.5 
::::::

::::::
UserName: sony-rules
Rating: 10
Date: Oct 4, 2007 1:34 pm PT
Review:  i find it is an amazing game online is even better but its bean glitching allot for me i don't 
 now if its just my copy or its happening to
  other people if so notify me. but i still loved the game .
  the motion sensing is amazing especially 
 when your aiming and you can yous the motion sensing to aim cool ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! ! ! ! !! ! !! 
 ! ! ! ! ! !! ! ! ! !! !!! ! ! ! !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! !!!!!!!!!!!!! cool cool cool cool cool coolings 
 ngdfgak vgfkugaku aughrqk ghraywkr rghyai urgiaglury hrgf rfgaygwh uryuwq yuwreitq hrgtayutgf hrgtkay 
 frgya rjeghyukatgkwe rtgrrrhtgdfukya ryfgyer rytgga fhgyagfywe egfgyagfya efgtyagg sgatfetafd dgfasdyfa 
 gefytfa cvggafda **** dsfdsafga gfutjdsf dsfgjanw 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Hailogon
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 18, 2007 12:20 pm PT
Review:  Remember Ghost Recon when no one liked it? It was like the fat kid in the playground, you played 
 with it once or twice then walked away with the realization that it simply wasn't that much fun. 
 Well unless of course you've had your head under a rock for the last couple of years you'll have 
 realized that with Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter, the franchise has grown up, lost a few pounds, 
 and is now the center of attention, becoming one of the best tactical shooters around. Does the 
 sequel live up to the hype created by the first?
  
  The story of Advanced Warfighter 2 picks up straight after the first. You're Scott Mitchell, leader 
 of the Ghost Recon squad of some of the most elite soldiers in the world. A rebellion has broken 
 out in Mexico and you and your squad have been sent to halt it because, of course, the terrorists 
 have a nuke. For the most part the story is told through a small screen which appears in the top 
 right of your HUD whilst you travel from mission to mission but this can also appear mid-mission 
 as well. There are no formal cut scenes to speak of throughout the game, which works out fine seeing 
 as you won't care much what the story is, seeing as it's merely and excuse to get to point A, killing 
 every enemy in sight, whilst occasionally planting a bomb or two. As mentioned before, you don't 
 have to rely on simply your own skills to stay alive, for most of the game you're accompanied by 
 your squad, and these men can take the heat off of your during a firefight or be used to scout 
 ahead for hostiles . You have two main commands at your disposal whilst controlling your squad: 
 go there and come here. In addition you have a toggle for when you want them to 'go loud' so to 
 speak, and kill everything they come across. These controls work well, and your squadmates are 
 fairly adept and getting themselves into cover when it starts to heat up. The only downside is 
 that you can only control your squad as a whole and not individually, which limits the tactics 
 you're free to use, but other than that, it's a decent squad mechanic. It's not just your squad 
 that you can rely on in battle, you also have the extremely high tech system in your HUD. This 
 system not only marks out enemies with red diamonds, but when you zoom in for a closer look also 
 displays their outline in red, meaning that if they're behind cover you can still see them clearly, 
 allowing you to shoot through their cover (if you have the correct weapon for it) . Whilst this 
 system does make the fighting a lot more enjoyable, it does feel slightly like cheating when a 
 sniper's bullet's start flying past you and immediately a diamond marks him out of the air. These 
 mechanics combined with an intuitive cover system make the gameplay easy to pick up and play, and 
 very exciting in many places. The gameplay is also every so often broken up with a vehicle sequence, 
 where you take control of a turret and mow down enemies in their dozens. These sequences can provide 
 a stress-free break from the main missions. GRAW2 comes with a wide range of multiplayer games 
 to play including co-op and deathmatch modes. The graphics take a significant hit when the game 
 goes online and the cover system degenerates substantially but it none the less remains a fun distraction 
 from the single player experience, that is, if you can find a match to play in...
  
  The graphics in Ghost Recon's campaign mode are amazing throughout. Streets have been created with 
 much precision and textures look sharp in most places. The graphics really stand out however, when 
 your in the desert sections and sand starts to fly across your screen. It would be beautiful if 
 it weren't for the men shooting at you. Sound in Ghost Recon can get very intense at times. Most 
 explosions have a real kick to them (slightly weakened by the lack of rumble in the Sixaxis) and 
 at the points where orchestral flurry's come in you can't help but admire the setting. Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfighter 2 is a very accomplished tactical shooter, with a bit more length in the campaign, 
 and a bit more variety with the missions it could have been better but as it stands, it's worth 
 a rental at the very least. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wade3024
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 16, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Single player:
  Single player campaign, I have to be honest I have not played much of it; the online is that good, 
 it makes the offline seem dull and not as fun as you are not belting out orders via Mic to real 
 players.
  
  Multiplayer:
  Online multiplayer is wheres its at! The unique ranking system and challenging others players for 
 the best rank, keeps you coming back for more. If you are on the winning team and have more kills 
 than deaths, you'll get points which accumilate to your rank. But if you are on the losing team 
 or have more deaths than kills you will lose points; hence being demoted a rank. To be consistant, 
 you either have to be an excellent solo player playing on a solo deathmatch or work as a team to 
 win the match.
  
  The bad about Multiplayer is, you have to have a really good connection to host a non lagging game, 
 and have at least cable just to play. (400k/bs download speed minimum)
  
  Also cover system online is non existant, probably to make the game more faced paced; as it is 
 already slow enough!
  
  The graphics: are excellent! As in you wont be complaining! Graphics dont degrade that much online, 
 you probably wont even notice.
  
  The sound
  Good as it need to be!
  
  A must buy for all those who are awaiting HAze, UT3, Killzone 2 and may other great shooters to 
 come! Buy It Now! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: wow-starfox
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 15, 2007 6:18 pm PT
Review:  Offline
  
  Sehr sch&ouml; ne graphik und sehr gute camera f&uuml; hrung.. das Spiel spielt sich von der Schulter-Camera. also 
 man sieht den spieler direckt &uuml; ber die Schulter.
  Man hat sich ein ausgekl&uuml; gte Form den Ghost (player 1) zu bewegen ausgedacht.. man kann de 
 sixxasis Kontroler in vielen Situationen gebrauchen oder auch nicht.
  In Graw 2 geht es darum eine speziele Einheit in Sehr sch&ouml; nen Levels verschiedene Auftr&auml; ge 
 auszuf&uuml; hren. Man hat ein risieges Arssenal an Sturgewehre, Pistolen, Sprengstoff, Granaten_Raketen-verfer 
 und Snypers. Man hat sehr viele unterst&uuml; tzung von de K. I (k&uuml; nstliche Inteligenz) Man 
 steuert meistens 3 andere Cameraden. Alles spielt sich in Mexico ab.
  Die K. I macht wie auch in anderen Taktik-Shooters kein Spass.. versucht dich in den meisten schwierigkeitsstufen 
 in den Kopf zu schiessen.
  
  8.5
  
  Online
  
  Man muss leider wie auch in anderen GRAW Spiele im online Modus auf die geile Grapfik verziechten.. hier 
 ist das spiel schlichter...:- (
  Man hat aber sehr viele verschiede Spielm&ouml; glichkeiten Kooperativ offline missionen solo oder 
 im Team hat man 4 verschiedene Gameregeln... alle gegen alle 2 teams gegeneinander capture the flag 
 domination sicherung... also man hat viel zu spielen ..,... um alles zu sehen.. sehr positiv..
  Dennoch &uuml; berzeugt graw2 nicht 100% online wie der Bruder RS3 Vegas...
  
  7.0 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ripcord23
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 26, 2007 1:09 pm PT
Review:  I got this game when it came out and it has soem of the best graphics and gameplay . also the multiplayer 
 is great u can do coop or fight each othier with up to 16 players. but the single player is kinda 
 boring its ok but not as good as rainbow six vegas. alot of it feels like bin there done that stuf. 
 Othier then that the game is nice to play but it still dosent beat bf2 when it comes to military 
 games. In GRAW2 u are a us speacel foreces soldier while u fight rebels. you can use lots of diffrent 
 types of weipons and gear witch is nice. GRAW 2 is nice to try. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PureLaise
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 10, 2007 5:19 am PT
Review:  What a game, I never used to play these type of titles and my god was i missing out. What a great 
 way to start. The online is great because you level up and level down which makes your level so 
 much more deserved. The maps are awesome to ranging from villages to beaches. The weaponry is plentiful 
 which gives a much broader aspect on the strategy you choose. You could be a marksman hidden away 
 in a cosy killer point or a full on mad man with an automatic ready to waste anyone. All in all 
 its great.. Go buy it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gamer2424
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 9, 2007 9:48 am PT
Review:  This game is great but there is some ups and down about it.
  
  THE GOOD:
  The game has good detail and great gun models. Also the way you can look the your teammates eyes 
 by the camera on their helmet and see what they see is pretty cool. As well as the use of the UAV's. 
 When you get into a battle with the enemy it is also decent because you have to use cover and can 
 throw smoke grenade that actually block the enemys view, and you can tell your team to move in 
 front of you.
  
  THE BAD:
  Well the games story line was extremely fast paced, it doesn't take long to be this game on the 
 lowest difficultly level. You will probably find yourself not believing you beat the game already. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: smith447
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 6, 2007 11:25 am PT
Review:  Graw 2 is a great game. Although the single player campain could have used more leangth and a bit 
 better story, it makes up for that minor set back by being great it almost every other way. First 
 of all I just want to say the game's graphics look excellent. I played it on my HDTV and it looked 
 great. I did not notice any glitches at all. The explosions were my favorite part. You can literally 
 see the bullets flying past you and the bullets coming out of your gun as well. The gameplay is 
 really fun and intense. It could have used more fun of a story like i said before but since not 
 many people care about that in shooter games, whatever. The firefights are pretty nice you actually 
 feel like your getting pinned down like in a real battle situation. The squad is one of the smartest 
 i've seen in any shooter besides for maybe Rainbow 6 Vegas. Sure there's always those times when 
 you are like WHAT THE HECK ARE YOU DOING! But not as much as other games. The sounds of GRAW 2 
 were pretty decent. Basicly the same old voices for the bad mexican rebel guys. If you played the 
 first GRAW then you know what i'm talking about. The explosion sounds are good but they are the 
 same every single time something blows up, no matter if you threw a greneade or launched a rocket. 
 The sounds of the guns blazing are great though, and it really makes you feel like you are right 
 there. I had it on the second to easiest skill level and it was still challenging but not too bad. 
 I beat the game in about i dont know 6 hours. Maybe more or less but not too much. It kind of has 
 a crappy ending, but it is still a very satisfying game and it makes you want to play it again 
 on a different skill level to unlock more things. Multiplayer i only played for a little bit but 
 it seemed probably the best mode out of the two. So GRAW 2 added up to be a great but quickly passing 
 game that makes up for it with probably great muliplayer and graphics. Single Player Gameplay 8/10 
 Multiplayer Gameplay 9/10 ?
  Sound 7/10
  Graphics 9.5/10
  SP Mode Leangth: About 6-7 hours
  Learning Curve - You'll get the hang of it right after you 
 play the tuturial! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: AllGameSystems
Rating: 7
Date: Sep 4, 2007 6:00 am PT
Review:  Asise from a few moments, dull. ...... Corners shaved a bit from the 360 version, lower resolution. 
 Siaxis does not work.
  
  -Some bugs, slower frame rate, freezes from time to time. Tiring, bland landscape, almost colorless, 
 no blood, some stuff you shoot like a car doesnt even leave a mark What-So-Ever!.... In fact alot 
 of what you shoot leaves no evidence at all you shot at it??? Next Generation???
  
  -Nice to play but gets boring no matter how much you want to like it. Explosions are cool! Rent 
 it.
  
  x xxxx xxxx xx xxxx xxxx xxx xxx xxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx xx xxx xxx 
 xxx
  xx xxx xxx xxxx xxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx x xx xxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxx xxx
 
  xx xx xxxx xxxx xxxx xx xxx xxxxx xxxxx xxx xxx xx xxxxx xxx xxxxx xxxx xxx xxxxxxxxx xxx xxxxx 
 xxxx
  xx xxx xxx xxxxxx xxxx xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx xx xxxxx
 
  xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx 
  xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx 
   
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: mk1234
Rating: 8
Date: Sep 3, 2007 8:11 pm PT
Review:  GRAW 2 is a soiid tactical shooter. There is plenty to love about it. First things first the single 
 player campaign is very well designed and makes you want to keep on going and find out what is 
 going to happen next. They do this through the system of displaying on you HUD (Heads-up DIsplay) . 
 This is a great way to keep the pace of the story. The only thing that I find disappointing in 
 the way the story is portrayed is that the general can tend to be annoying. The graphics look sharp 
 on the PS3 and it looks realistic and well done as you would expect from a game like this. The 
 sounds that sometimes are over-looked in some reviews, but that I find important, are very well 
 done they make you feel like you are immersed inside the conflict. The voice acting is also superb, 
 although sometimes it can be a little repetitive. There are a few downsides to this game. One the 
 single player campaign is far too short. If you haven't played the first GRAW than you feel like 
 you are missing part of the story, and it can be a little weird at some points. Some parts of the 
 story are really cheesy and over the top especially when the president talks to you directly. This 
 I feel takes away from the otherwise stellar realisim in the game. Also your team Ai is top notch, 
 but the Ai of your allies and enemies can be lacking sometimes. For example there are tanks that 
 you have supporting you and they won't fire even when things are in plain view and you have told 
 them. They can also respond rather sluggishly sometimes. The cross-com system while adding to the 
 game and makes you a more effective fighter but when it targets your enemies it makes the game 
 almost to easy at points. Overall this is a good game that is a must for PS3 owners who are fans 
 of tactical shooters or the Ghost Recon series. If your new to tactical shooters or only want one 
 tactical shooter right now for your PS3 you are better off getting Rainbow Six. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PS3videos
Rating: 5.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 11:14 am PT
Review:  It should be a great alternative to Rainbow 6 Vegas on the PS3. It should be the must get game 
 of the summer because of the open maps and quick play. It should have been delayed again to allow 
 Ubisoft time to get it right.
  
  Forget the slippery game play and second generation online graphics for a second. The online setup 
 is horrible. You can have friends but can't see where they are playing or join them. You can customize 
 your face but not really your camo. You can use the join game search, but chances are it's going 
 to try to log you in to a full room. Several times in a row.
  
  It is a third person shooter online but it plays like a first person game because people are just 
 shooting each other from across the maps. Very disappointingly.
  
  It reminds of myself in the fifth grade. I had all the potential in the world but just didn't apply 
 myself. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vax1op369
Rating: 8.5
Date: Sep 3, 2007 6:12 am PT
Review:  The campaign mode is short but intense with eye dropping graphics even if not on a hdtv. THe contorls 
 are perfect that is the reason i bought this game. Tap x to reload hold x to open another menu 
 simple but genious. CLick r3 to go from standing up and to shooting from your knee hold r3 to go 
 prone. Now to multiplayer the online has so many maps. The bad obout online is that the graphics 
 go down and you cannot stick onto objects while being online and some of the maps are just to big 
 but there are some maps that are really close combat and thats what i enjoy. tons of guns to choose 
 from great great graphics sound. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: TriniRicanJunie
Rating: 9.5
Date: Sep 2, 2007 8:02 pm PT
Review:  ok this game is far beyond what i expected because its like it feels real the voice acting the 
 difficulty level and the weaponry was good its just like socom and halo combined i know so people 
 wont agree but i bet it'll be just like it if it was over the shoulder view but as you see this 
 is a very good and detailed game ubisoft did a real good job especially with the graphics but i 
 dont understand with the people noticing the HD difference it looks just as good plus the controls 
 are perfect and the graphics sometimes maybe of like the damn area when the water its the water 
 it doesnt look real but its good enough but the ending was off cause they shoulda shown the big 
 boom still its good enough but if you play online its crazy cause theirs so much coverage you dont 
 know where their at but overall this is a game worth gettin 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Carlagamegirl
Rating: 7.5
Date: Sep 1, 2007 7:14 am PT
Review:  THE BAD - Graphics noticably lower than XBOX 360 (1080I - P) , sometimes a gun will be pointing 
 up in the air as you shoot the ground, team wont come on occasion and all by itself it will select 
 the placement of your team , too many nightime misssions means less too look at, helicopter windows 
 always closed so you cant see when you are flyinhg around. shooting at a number of things wont 
 leave any marks..
  
  THE GOOD - Very cool explosions! Fighting from a helicopter is the best i've ever played, as large 
 puffs of smoke richochet off of the street and buildings rom your Mounted Cannon blowiing holes 
 into the pavment and creating the most beautiful explsions, done very realistic. Controls are good 
 but dont use the Siaxis.. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: kamerad
Rating: 9
Date: Sep 4, 2007 8:54 pm PT
Review:  Well I'm doing a full edit, I requested people to spam do not agree with my review with thumbs 
 down but not many did so i'm doing it. I'm sorry for what i said about the game originally, but 
 after over half a week of playing I have come to see it's true colors so here it goes. Ghost Recon 
 Advanced Warfare 2 is perhaps the best Ghost Recon game of the series to ever be released on a 
 Sony console. I'd even rate it higher than the XBox version of GRAW 2 even with some minor things 
 including first person split creen for multiplayer just because of the better gameplay witht he 
 tilt axis controllers provided with the PS3, allowing players to be a little more involved with 
 their soldiers moments. Despite the positive and negative sides of the game it is pretty much the 
 same as the 360 version but with some added multiplayer modes and weapons, making the game more 
 rich with content and an over all superior game compared to it's 360 counter part. It does lack 
 on the online play mode, it's a little tedious at times trying to get on a good server and unlike 
 PC gaming you basically require a head set just to communicate but so do you do with all console 
 online shooters. But no game is perfect it seems. I give GRAW 2 a big thumbs up, it is the first 
 shooter on the PS3 I have grown to love, and thats hard I dislike a majority of shooters on all 
 consoles, I prefer PC shooters normally. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DownBringer
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 3:56 pm PT
Review:  Good game. Great game play. Good story. Bit short but draws you in as soon as you begin playing. 
 Good buy for the PS3. Online play is solid; as is multi-player. Obviously better than the first. 
 For those that criticise the graphics there are distinctly in my eyes no flaws in the graphics 
 of the 720p game; they are not the greatest on the PS3 but obviously still good. Took me estimated 
 about 6 hours to complete the game and it heavily reminded me of the latest 24 series! 2 nukes. 
 Great soldier. Find the nukes. Stop a war! Overall: 9.5, one of the best games on the PS3 so far. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: SP3AR101
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 31, 2007 12:31 pm PT
Review:  i played a demo of the playstation store of a bout 10 minutes and it was pretty gd!!
  
  you start of in a ravine and take out a few guys eventually taking on about 5/6.
  
  that was 
 pretty fun after the first section you get a team and it takes on a whole new mode, what pleased 
 me most was the fact that the computer a. i was actually good and they could shoot and, not stand 
 in the line of fire like a lemming 9most of the time!!)
  
  its good 2 play but it can b 2 easy with all the aids, i no its meant 2 have it but its countered 
 by the enemies who often use cover and help eachother out (still needs improvements tho)
  
  but try it and c wot u think
  
  SP3AR 
::::::

::::::
UserName: bencm21
Rating: 8
Date: Aug 30, 2007 1:52 am PT
Review:  Graw 2 is a really intense third person shooter that brings the excellent ghost recon formula to 
 the PS3.
  
  Gameplay
  The single player campaign in Graw 2 is for the most part really good. it does a good job of telling 
 the story and engaging you in the world. however its over far too quickly, the missions are great, 
 some of the later missions that see you pinned down by mercenaries are really gritty and intense, 
 however they don't last very long, it would have been nice to have longer missions. the squad tactics 
 that you have to use in order to successfully complete your goals are excellent, using your cypher 
 to survey the battle field from above, identifying threats, moving into strategic positions and 
 neutralizing the targets is very satisfying.
  
  The multiplayer is great, i haven't played it so much as i have been playing the single player 
 mostly and also i prefer rainbow six for online anyway :P
  
  Graphics
  This is a port of the 360 version which was released a while back, however the visuals in the game 
 still look great on the PS3 in HD. the explosion and fire effects are superb, as are character 
 models.
  
  Story
  The story is really good and well told through updates given to you via radio or videos on your 
 HUD. I don't want to spoil the story because its really good and you really have to play through 
 it yourself. however my only problem with the story is that it is a direct follow on from the original 
 Graw, therefore if you missed it you might not understand the story completely, however it doesn't 
 get in your way too much.
  
  Sound The sound effects are great, the gunfire sounds real, explosions are realistic sounding, 
 the background noise is great, gunfire and explosions going off in the distance helping create 
 the atmosphere of a real war zone.
  
  Overall
  Graw 2 is definitely worth a look if you didn't play it on the 360, and its a great action game 
 for the PS3, its keeping me entertained until the likes of Heavenly Sword, Warhawk and Strangle 
 hold are released next month, all in all its a welcome addition to my Gaming Library. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: snorlaxmaster
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 3:43 pm PT
Review:  I bought the game expecting a great single player game. Although the game does have a pretty fun 
 single player, the multiplayer is what makes this game what it is. Whether online or off, its just 
 plain fun to sniper some enemies with your buddies. The only problem I see with the game is the 
 ridiculous load time for the multiplayer menu, but after that its pretty quick. Its definitely 
 a FPS at heart, but the addition of stealth and strategy makes the gameplay smoother. It takes 
 the good old Tom Clancy formula and makes it better in every way, whether that be the cover system, 
 or the new Cross Com. Over all its a great game to spend playing on those hot summer days. Its 
 just a blast!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jetsvcf
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 28, 2007 2:47 am PT
Review:  After last year's disappointing and watered-down PS2 port of the first GRAW title, this is PlayStation's 
 first proper look at Ubisoft's reinvigorated tactical shooter. An extension of the original Ghost 
 Recon series, Advanced Warfighter is set a little further into the future - we're now shooting 
 the happy residents of 2014 - and is more heavily focused on the sophisticated battle gear of tomorrow 
 than the early titles. It's also a massive graphical leap over its predecessors, showcasing incredibly 
 human character models and so life-like we must actually be watching Fox News -style battlegrounds.
 
  
  First up, though, a little warning. Plot-wise the game's pretty much Blu-ray-pressed US propaganda, 
 with a massive thing for the American military. The basics are that you and your top-secret Ghost 
 team are sent charging into Mexico to slap down a rebel uprising and restore democracy. While we're 
 used to jingoistic wargames, GRAW's flat out endorsement of shooting stuff - cutscenes criticising 
 anti-war media coverage, obligatory use of WMDs as a plot device - really lays it on thick. Those 
 of you with an ounce of intelligence will feel a little insulted, while regular Guardian readers 
 may need to have a lie-down between levels.
  
  The best thing to do is ignore as much of the gung-ho stuff as possible, because underneath lies 
 a complex, accomplished and brilliantly playable war sim. Sticking firmly in the Ghost Recon tradition, 
 Advanced Warfighter 2 strives for realism more than sensationalism. There are tons of checkpoints 
 and rendezvous-making, securing of areas and maintaining perimeters. The actual shooting feels 
 a lot like we imagine real war might, in that it only takes a very small number of bullets to kill 
 someone, and if you don't hide nearly all the time you get shot very quickly. Unlike most war games, 
 the emphasis is very much on thinking and planning your way through levels, rather than charging 
 in, absorbing enemy fire and blasting everything in sight.
  
  Controls play a massive part in the game's success. Advanced Warfighter is all about how you interact 
 with and utilise all your wish-fulfillment war toys, and a balanced, manageable interface is crucial. 
 As such control of your character - the hard-bitten Captain Scott Mitchell - is kept smart and 
 simple. The sticks manage moving and aiming, with Mitchell automatically assuming a cover position 
 when you press him up against any object or surface. The fiddle-free system is a blessing, as this 
 is where you'll spend much of your time - leaning out or over walls and obstacles to fire, tapping 
 R3 for close targeting and another button to hold your breath and steady your aim. Selecting from 
 your four available weapons - long and short range, two types of grenade - is similarly easy, with 
 each option mapped onto the D-pad.
  
  Adding more complexity are the additional controls for issuing instructions to your three-man Ghost 
 team. Before each mission you're given a very short briefing about what you'll encounter - type 
 of terrain, strength of opposition - and you can then balance your squad accordingly by selecting 
 soldiers with medical knowledge or specialist weapons expertise. Once deployed, your boys rely 
 on you for commands entirely, and they won't even move without your say so.
  
  Aiding your operational organisation is the ability to see from your squad's perspective using 
 your networked com units. In an improvement over the original Advanced Warfighter, the entire screen 
 can switch over to their head-cam, from which you can glean tactical info and also identify positions 
 to advance towards and targets to attack. Ultimately, this is the key to the game's success - switching 
 between cams and coordinating an assault is really, really good fun, especially when you're given 
 additional support units.
  
  First up these are simple, coming in the form of an airborne drone which will scan the battlezone, 
 identifying enemy units and plotting a route to your objectives, or you can use an ammunition mule 
 which carries extra equipment, and which you can also use like a remote control piece of cover. 
 Later on you'll also be given use of a Stryker APC - one of the game's standout missions sees you 
 marching behind the tank-like armour unit as it rumbles down a war-torn road, ordering it to fire 
 on lurking insurgents - and a Little Bird Gunship.
  
  Best of all, though, is the mission for which you're lent extra infantry from the Mexican army. 
 See, one of our few criticisms of Advanced Warfighter is that your Ghost squad always operates 
 as a three - you can't individually deploy your men, which will keep things moving quickly, certainly, 
 but also cuts down your tactical options somewhat. The additional unit makes things much more interesting, 
 giving you the ability to surround or lay traps for your enemies. Better yet, the mission level 
 itself is brilliantly designed for the purpose, a ruined town filled with pale concrete shells 
 which provides layers and layers of cover to move through, checking sight-lines and coordinating 
 movements. It's tense, satisfying and really is excellently executed. There are some minor flaws 
 worth pointing out. It's not as easy to surprise your opposition as the tutorial would have you 
 believe, for instance, and they have a knack of spotting you and your boys just as you're settling 
 into position. Similarly, enemy soldiers have an uncanny ability to predict when you're going to 
 run out of breath while steady-aiming, popping out of cover to fire off a few rounds while you're 
 sucking air and your sights are wobbly. And the fact that you're always crouching as you leave 
 low cover gets to be very frustrating - at first having to tap L3 to stand when running to a new 
 safe spot is no problem, but when you come up against a level that requires plenty of moving from 
 cover to cover it gets to be a big pain.
  
  But these are very much side issues - overall, Ghost Recon Advanced Warfighter 2 is an almost flawlessly 
 conceived and realised war simulator. It wraps you up in the cutting-edge (and still being researched) 
 technology of conflict like nothing else around, giving you an unparalleled sense of control over 
 your various units. An Xbox 360 port it may be, but it's the best tactical shooter I've played 
 in ages. Top stuff. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 49erios
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 27, 2007 9:00 pm PT
Review:  I find this game to be great! Socom better watch out! I am a big Socom Fan and I am sold on GRAW 
 2. Great Job! The online game is great! Since I bought it yesterday, I have been hooked on the 
 single player mode. The story is great, easy to control your team mates. Love the explosions! I 
 cannot say much bad about it, graphics are good! Sound is Great! Very good game. I do not understand 
 why people are writing bad things about it? Maybe people are still expecting that all the PS3 games 
 to be perfect. Please remember that games take a year or so to hit their peak! Look at the PS2, 
 it took a while for the developers to figure out the potential of the sysytem. We need to look 
 at the fact, that the graphics are better, will get even better, and let us look at the gameplay, 
 story, and everything else rather than the graphics. PS3 will get there, it is strongly on its 
 way now. Give it time! Later!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: HpRB
Rating: 4.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 5:45 pm PT
Review:  The game's demo is a much better version. What happened to reaction time? The demo that was downloadable 
 from the Play-station Home was a very crisp and clean game. Come show time, the real game gets 
 the blood flowing and the anxiety increases. But the first time you move, you find that its about 
 a quarter second delay. A quarter second delay is about all it takes to get kill or be killed. 
 What were Ubisoft and Tom Clancy thinking? Keep it like Rainbow Six: Vegas. Tactical shooter doesn't 
 need to mean make awesome graphics with unrealistic agility and slow weapon change time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tsouljah
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:32 pm PT
Review:  I am a little dissapointed with the local play, you do get to play up to four player campaign and 
 deathmatch but the camera is just not right, you still get the stunning realisticness of the entire 
 mission but you dont get the third person view that you have in singleplayer. The singleplayer 
 campaignn is an adrenaline rush. You play as if your in a high powered war movie. The shooting 
 and the explosions and blood look all too real. AND I LOVE IT!!! Your a highly trained military 
 fighting guy with a squad called the ghost team. you kill mexican terorrists with your squad by 
 hiding, peeking , shooting, Exploding and all over ALL destroying. with the music and the blasting 
 u use every state of the art us weapon there is to date and that goes without sayin that this game 
 is cr4p loads of fun. This is a must have for any ps3 owner 
::::::

::::::
UserName: eryk1
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 27, 2007 2:14 pm PT
Review:  When I read the reviews of this game I was every exited that finally a port to the PS3 wouldnt 
 look or play like crap. With that said! I sat down with the game on a Thursday and finished it 
 the following night on Friday. I was a little upset because I spent $60.00 on a game that I beat 
 in less then 10 hours. To tell you the truth there isnt that much replay value either. Thankfully 
 that is all I have to say about the bad. There is a lot of good points to this game, most notably 
 is that it keeps you so busy most of the time, that you dont have time to pick out the imperfections.
 
  
  The game play is fast and on point. However I did notice that gun fire did lag a little and HUD 
 commands where a little imprecise. The game play was almost glitch free. I dont know if this is 
 gust me but the game froze more than once at the level load screen where you picked your weapons 
 and teammates. If you go to the end and then backtrack to select a different gun or teammate it 
 would freeze or if you scrolled through the gun selection to fast it would crash as well.
  
  As for the other nuances to the game, the intel options that you have are very well executed. 
 The UAV and the tactical map where very well dune and very useful through out the game. The only 
 bad thing, to locate an enemy you had to manually scan an area to find them. For instance you couldnt 
 send the UAV to an area through the tactical map and have it automatically point out the enamels 
 in the area, you would have to take control of the UAV and maneuver it around to pick them up. 
 I thought it was an annoyance and time consuming.
  
  Like I was saying before you have to look very hard at this game to find the bad points, or maybe 
 personal preferences. I found this game very exciting and fun to play while it lasted. There is 
 some replay value to this game, though not much. I found the game (on the default settings) to 
 be a little easy but still challenging enough to get killed more than a few times. There where 
 some glitches in the game, I noticed the most in the last act of the game. I would have like to 
 have had the experience last longer because it is a great game. Overall the gust par graphics 
 werent that big of a deal when looking at the whole gaming experience. Game play was smooth and 
 engaging. Enamels where well placed and hard to take down. Your squad is intelligent and function 
 usefully. Weapons are good and realistic in sound and functions. The command function is a pit 
 hard to use but works better than others. Over all a good game and a good buy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Slapshotsaint
Rating: 7.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 6:24 am PT
Review:  Plays similar to the XBOX 360 with a little different story line. (This is due to the graphics 
 issues) (it's a bit darker and bland also) its alot of fun and interesting to play through. Shot 
 value is good, gameplay is fairly smooth as you would expect.. Seems to freeze somewhat and have 
 constant framerate issues as well but it shouldtn detarct too much from being a good time. (Although 
 I have had to shut it off and turn it on quite a bit. Siaxis just doesnt work at all and fails 
 when you need it.
  
  .I wouldnt pay 60$ since I dont support making games that are not multi TV format (480p-720p-1080I-1080p) 
 and it is buggy as a few guns point up in the air when you are shooting at the ground???????,,,, Irritating,, 
 but it is a must own! Just not as sharp as it should be and kinda gets a little worse as the game 
 goes on. Wierd that PS3 games suffer this graphic problem (720p max) and call it next Gen, as 720p 
 has been out for years and the FCC standard is 1080?
  
  So you get 420 less line of resolution. NO color at all in the game...........
  
  Too short! 
 FUN and blows BIOSHOCK away!!!!!!!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: darren05r
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 26, 2007 10:08 am PT
Review:  Ghost Recon is addictive. These are words that come to you within the first hour of play on the 
 PS3 versions of the tactical shooter game from Ubisoft. The game continues on from the first Advanced 
 Warfighter game, with Captain Scott Mitchell returning to Fort Bliss after taking out General Ontiveros 
 in the first game. From there, we learn that mercenaries have gotten hold of two nuclear weapons, 
 and plan to use them on US soil. But, the rebels didnt count on having Scott Mitchell and the Ghosts 
 in the way of their master plan.
  
  This is Tom Clancys third outing on the PS3 already. In the past three months, he has released 
 Splinter Cell: Double Agent, Rainbow Six: Vegas, and now Ghost Recon: Advanced Warfighter 2. This 
 'series' has got better as the games have came out. Ghost Recon really takes the cake in every 
 field. Graphically, the game is very impressive, with a high draw distance and lots of detail. 
 The music is brilliant, especially in the more epic parts of the single player campaign.
  
  Online, however, is where Ghost Recon really shines. It is addictive, believe me, and you will 
 find yourself returning night and day, trying to get to the next rank, or engaging in clan wars. 
 With 40 maps, and 13 game modes, Ghost Recon can never get repetitive. The online play supports 
 up to 16 players, which may not sound like much, but the size of the maps make them very busy. 
 I say again, Ghost Recon is addictive. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Keir21
Rating: 8.5
Date: Aug 30, 2007 3:24 am PT
Review:  Well in short yes. Why? well the PS2 game had so many flaws which were absolutely unforgivable 
 such as unstable framer rate and some really bad level design. This game fixes those issues and 
 delivers a lot and ubisoft should be happy. However this game does have its share of flaws some 
 of which are absolutely horrible. For example the steep learning curve for newcomers. A few minor 
 glitches can be annoying and the six axis use is just lame.
  
  Graphics: Absolutely superb visuals highly detailed especially on Mitch. These are some of the 
 most detailed graphics to date. The explosions look great the enemies are detailed and the level 
 design is much better than the cramped corridors from the first game. The animations however aren't 
 exactly great for example, reloading without actually taking out the magazine. Some times your 
 character might randomly roll which can be irritating and lets be honest the graphics are almost 
 identical to the 360 version.
  
  Game play: Very well plotted out but has a big learning curve. Taking cover is fun and giving orders 
 is a blast. Knowing where your enemies are can make the game slightly easier which is a bit of 
 a shame. The game play has a lot to be praised but a few minor niggles can get irritating at times. 
 Not quite as solid as the frame rate which is very stable. The game doesn't tend to get boring 
 however there are certain missions which may seem more like a chore due to repetitiveness. The 
 AI is good and the physics are also good without a lot of interaction. The length of the game isn't 
 quite enough to pay the full price tag but it is worth a look if your a fan of shooters however 
 thanks to the multi player the replay value is knocked up up a lot and getting stats is fun.
  
  Sound: Has a lot of variety from the screams of your enemies to nerve racking explosions. The 
 gun shots and bullet spray sound affects are also very neat.
  
  Story: Well its nothing special just what you would expect from a Tom Clancy game.
  
  Overall: 
 A vast improvement on the original game witch makes this the best Ghost Recon and one of the best 
 tactical shooters around. Has some brilliant ideas. The AI could do with some work though and the 
 graphics aren't a real difference from the 360 version.
  
  Score:
  7/10 recommended 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pandadude01
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2007 5:14 pm PT
Review:  I have been waiting for GRAW2 apprehensively. I was disappointed by RV6, and was fearing GRAW2 
 might let me down again. I enjoyed the demo, but was disappointed by the reactions of many other 
 gamers, and I began to fear this game may not sell well, meaning few multiplayer games being available. 
 After buying the game, I jumped straight into a single player game. Immediately it is obvious that 
 the graphics are extremely nice to look at, the textures are mostly detailed and the environments 
 look beautiful, especially when cruising above in a Black Hawk helicopter. The obligatory training 
 mission is a bit boring and slow, especially to start with, but it does a good job of getting new 
 players used to the controls.
  
  Once you get into the real missions, GRAW2 is very addictive. The shootouts are intense, and you 
 really feel like you are crouching below a wall with bullets whizzing past your head. This effect 
 is achieved well because you can actually see bullets flying through the air and are especially 
 obvious on single shot mode. Obviously you can't dodge bullets, but it is cool to see the air filled 
 with metal flying all over the battlefield. The frame rate isn't perfect, but its good enough, 
 and I barely noticed any slow down, even during the most intense battles - and they can certainly 
 get intense! The explosions on GRAW2 look absolutely amazing to say the least, especially once 
 you gain abilities such as being able to call in air strikes. Believe me, if you like explosive 
 games, then GRAW2 is definitely for you. The single player experience is a tad short, but not so 
 short you will feel ripped off. The story is also noticeably weak, and some of the supporting characters 
 are so over-the-top in their military mannerisms that they really don't seem believably, which 
 is a shame because the rest of the game feels very real. However, it is easy to overlook this, 
 so it is nothing to worry about.
  
  When you do finally finish with single player in GRAW2, don't despair, there is still enough content 
 in the multiplayer area of the game to keep you entertained for a good while. The graphics hardly 
 take any hits in multiplayer, which is nice. I have a fairly poor internet connection, but still 
 hardly experienced any lag. Multiplayer manages to maintain much of the feel of the single player 
 game, but with a slightly more tactical feel. One nice feature of mulitplayer which I have been 
 having a lot of fun with is the ability to play various scenarios with other human players against 
 CPU bots. Whilst the AI isn't going to outsmart you, it's not the worst out there. One scenario 
 has you desperately trying to defend a position against a seemingly endless horde of enemies, which 
 is very intense, especially when your calling for help and rushing to the aid of your team mates 
 in the midst of all the hectic shooting. Sometimes you feel slightly outnumbered, but you never 
 feel frustrated by unfair deaths, more you feel very challenged.
  
  Overall, GRAW2 is a very exciting game with an impressive single player game, and an atmospheric 
 multiplayer mode, reminiscent of certain aspects of the good old SOCOM games, which will keep many 
 gamers entertained for hours at a time. If this sounds like your cup of tea, then I thoroughly 
 recommend GRAW2 
::::::

::::::
UserName: PaulAlmeida
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 7:41 pm PT
Review:  Ghost Recon 2 on the PS3 plays very well and is also very, very comparable to the 360 version. 
 In my opinion the 360 version ran a little bit smoother, but the textures looked better on the 
 PS3. It looks like Tom Clancey has once again started to help out a console (PS3) . With games like 
 Splinter Cell, Rainbow Six Vegas, and now Ghost Recon 2 out on the PS3, it feels like theres a 
 reason to play. Textures and lighting are done very well, the music is your typical Tom Clancey 
 themes, which means there done very well, it truly sets the tone. But most importanly the gameplay 
 is amazing, from the Decorations and bonuses to the replay value of this title. The only flaw that 
 most gamers including myself had with this one..... TOO SHORT. Hopefully there will be some downloadable 
 content for the PS3 version to make even that much better, well, enjoy. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MRNEMO1
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 24, 2007 1:37 pm PT
Review:  The visuals are great as well as the sound. I do wish the speed at which one can move the cross-hairs 
 was faster, but in the end it does not matter too much. The single player is very very short, but 
 packed with excitement. This was also my first game to play of the series and I know it will not 
 be the last. However, I did find it funny that the character is supposed to be a ghost , yet they 
 call him by his first and last name constantly. For sure, this is one of the best action games 
 ever; I just wish it was a bit longer. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: robin2223
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 24, 2007 4:18 am PT
Review:  With the majority of multiplatform games fairing slightly worse on the ps3 since launch I feel 
 that Ghost Recon 2 finally shows that with good development a game can be equally amazing if not 
 superior.
  
  Ghost Recon despite most conventional theory was not a port like Rainbow Six Vegas. It was co developed 
 on both systems from the ground up with Ubisofts Shanghai studios working on this version of the 
 game. I must stay they have done an amazing job and this game is a no brainer for purchase in comparison 
 to the other games that are out at this moment.
  
  The demo does not really do it justice, the textures on the clothing in particular are alot lower 
 res than the final product, also the controls have been tightened up and the colour palette has 
 been improved for release. The game runs smooth and the framerate does not dip (It may just slightly 
 if you are in a smoke grenade cloud) but this is a small price to pay for the amazing explosions 
 which stand out particularly on this verison.
  
  The SIXAXIS controls are a nice addition and the ability to choose which to keep on and off mean 
 that you have more choice in you gaming style. You get new maps, new weapons and a female operative 
 chucked in for you pleasure to expand the replay value.
  
  All in all it matches if not surpasses the 360 version and the added content makes it well worth 
 the outing on PS3. Great graphics, playablilty and content!
  
  I give it a 9.5... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Lux5
Rating: 10
Date: Aug 24, 2007 3:30 am PT
Review:  The game has explicitly great graphics and a much better gameplay. At first i was disappointed 
 in what the first GRAW looked like on PC, but when i played the demo on my PS3, I was truly amazed. 
 The game is a must have, and I'll be having it soon :) Sometimes the game lags a bit ( at least 
 the demo does ) when the chopper is coming down or something cinematic, but that doesn't make it 
 any less great. I don't know how many hours it takes to play through the game, but I'll say about 
 10-20 hours. The game also offers you different varieties of weapons and parts for them, like the 
 scope a silencer, grenade launcher etc. The over-the-shoulder view makes the game even more interesting, 
 and you can also see what is going on around you, unlike the first GRAW where in the first person 
 perspective you could be very surprised by upcoming enemies because you didn't see them coming. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: DaElderScrolls
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 23, 2007 1:11 pm PT
Review:  the 360 verison i played for a day at my friends house was very good but i bought the ps3 version 
 for myself though i have a 360 i wanted to compare so i did buy it for the ps3 and it was like 
 a imporved version of graw2 for the 360 i love the grahpics the tatical single player and the awesome 
 online shootouts though the game could be a bit more interseting but overall its almost a perfect 
 game if you own a ps3 and you get warhawk after you buy warhawk this is the game to buy! if you 
 like tatical shooters and online play included and deep imersive story mode then this is the shooter 
 for you. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: frankiefish84
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:59 pm PT
Review:  GRAW for ps3 is awesome, this game is better than the first, the graphics don't stand up to the 
 true power of the ps3, but the gameplay is sweet, and the online game is great, the multiplayer 
 is awesome. This game is downright awesome. You unlock medals by beating missions and meeting certain 
 requirements, The GRAW series is the best of all the Ghost Recon series, the other Ghost recons 
 to me wre kind of boring, but then I played this one, and it was so fun it was crazy, the first 
 one is good too. This game is definitely worth the $60 so go out and buy it and hop online so everyone 
 can see how fun it is. This game is possibly the best and probably only strategy shooter for PS3 
 and one of the best for online play. This game will have you playing forever or until the next 
 one comes out. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: vader2k3
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 22, 2007 5:53 pm PT
Review:  I played GRAW 2 on 360 and was pleased then bought it on PS3 and was blown away. I did beat GRAW 
 2 on 360, but couldn't pass it up on PS3 and I'm glad i didn't. The PS3 version is just beautiful, 
 for a couple reasons first, the graphics are phenomenal everything looks 100 times better than 
 the 360 version, especially how it looks when you use smoke grenades, and explosions secondly the 
 controls on PS3 are better and more fun to play, GRAW on PS3 utilizes full use of the sixaxis controller, 
 it cleanly uses the sixaxis, by rolling Lt. Mitchell, or diving. GRAW 2 completely grabs and pulls 
 you into the action. The game is truly gorgeous. If anyone loves military 3rd person, action pick 
 it up!! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: utahnos
Rating: 9.5
Date: Aug 21, 2007 8:30 pm PT
Review:  though I already played the heck out of the Xbox 360 version I was impressed by how fresh the experience 
 was after playing the PS3 version, though it controls the same the SIXAXIS motion controls are 
 really spot on if you are into that it also makes it easer to multi-task as you can make you character 
 roll or dive just by using motion while you focus on shooting, the graphics in the game are also 
 impressive providing great shadow effects and HDR lighting and a good, steady framerate makes it 
 a really great experience, also the explosions (which I think are the best visual showcase for 
 the game) seem to be clearer and of a sharper resolution then that of the Xbox 360 version. Overall 
 combined with the exclusive online multiplayer maps this is a great game well worth the money and 
 it will keep you busy for a long time. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: VictorWon
Rating: 9
Date: Aug 25, 2007 4:10 am PT
Review:  The game play is fun, lots of surprise, the sound is amazing, the background music makes you feel 
 excited, and sometimes the game makes you want to keep playing. however, the graphic is a little 
 bit disappoint for me because it's not too sharp (but the visual effect is very great, such as 
 shadow, smoke, explosion) . Graphic on explosion is great, it's one of the best explosion graphic 
 I've seen, however, again, it will be better if it's sharper. Over all, this is a great game. The 
 game's isn't too bright or too dark, so you don't need to worry about lighting problems. Also, 
 the color in retail game is better than the PS3 demo, if you interested this game, just buy it 
 without worrying other things. All you need to worry about is the frame rate, sometimes it's pretty 
 choppy for PS3, especially on the third mission which is the only raining mission in the single 
 player (18+fps, it's still can play quite good)
  Some people think the story is too short, but it's fine for me, perhaps I'm not start playing from 
 the easiest difficulty, and I heard the easiest difficulty (the game called low risk) allows you 
 take many hits from my friend, also, enemies and your teammates shooting accrue isn't too high, 
 so I don't recommend this difficulty, and my friend said he can finished this game in 3.5 hours 
 at this difficulty. I finished the game in 9 hours at Guarded risk, and I lose often in this difficulty, 
 so you better start from this difficulty. In this difficulty or harder some mission can play near 
 to 1 hour (for me) (maybe more)
  (Note: my friend not owned PS3 version, he owned Xbox 360 version)
  Game play : 9 | Music : 9.5 
 | Story : 9 | Graphic : 8.5 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
