-------------------------------------------------
:::Game Name::: Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent
-------------------------------------------------
:::GAME URL::: http://www.gamespot.com/ps3/action/splintercell4/review.html
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Good:::
 Stealth action gameplay remains tense and exciting.
 rich multiplayer suite improves on the spies-versus-mercenaries gameplay.
 campaign's trust system makes you think your actions through.
-------------------------------------------------
:::The Bad:::
 Missing some of the graphical features seen in the Xbox 360 version.
 some frame rate issues and long load times.
-------------------------------------------------
:::Date::: Apr 12, 2007
-------------------------------------------------
:::Scores::: 
GameSpot Score: 8
Critic Score: 7.9, 17 Review (s)
User Score: 8.1, 772 Vote (s)
-------------------------------------------------
:::Addition:::
Publisher: Ubisoft
Developer: Ubisoft Shanghai
Genre: Modern Action Adventure
Date: Mar 30, 2007
ESRB: Mature

-------------------------------------------------
:::Review:::
Splinter Cell makes a solid debut on the PlayStation 3 by delivering more of its signature stealth 
 action gameplay along with its unique multiplayer modes. 

  It's not easy to be Sam Fisher, the National Security Agency's elite secret agent. Sure, he gets 
 to jet around the world to fabulous destinations, but most of his time is spent skulking in the 
 shadows, waiting for a guard to pass close enough so he can snap his neck, or crawling through 
 ventilation shafts to infiltrate one top-secret facility or another. Of course, Sam's hardships 
 are a gamer's treat because Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell is a series that delivers excellent stealth 
 action gameplay where you get to play as Fisher while he tries to save the free world again and 
 again. With Splinter Cell: Double Agent, Sam arrives on the PlayStation 3 for the first time, and 
 as you'd expect, this is a fine-looking game, though it's a paler imitation of the Xbox 360 version. 
 Still, when it comes to delivering high-tech espionage and tense gameplay, it's definitely worth 
 checking out.  

          Double Agent delivers Splinter Cell to the PlayStation 3 era with upgraded visuals and 
 the series' signature stealth action gameplay.     

  The fourth chapter in the Splinter Cell series gets its name from the fact that Sam Fisher has 
 to serve two masters this time around. There's the NSA, his nominal employer, and a rogue militant 
 group called John Brown's Army, which he has to infiltrate by posing as a recruit. This is a task 
 made easier as Sam links up with the JBA while serving in prison for crimes that he most certainly 
 did commit. But as intriguing as this premise is, it quickly becomes an afterthought because he'll 
 soon be sent around the world to capture a supertanker trapped in the arctic ice, rappel down the 
 side of a Shanghai skyscraper, and sweat under a hot African sun in the midst of a war-torn city 
 in pursuit of your many objectives. Again, Sam must make like a modern, high-tech ninja armed with 
 an incredible arsenal of moves -- such as dangling upside down on a line and plucking a passing guard 
 by the neck -- and with the latest weapons and equipment.  

  If you've played any of the Splinter Cell games prior to Double Agent, you'll quickly find yourself 
 at home with the new game because the basic moves and strategies remain the same. Where Ubisoft 
 changes things up a bit is in the way the story unfolds; Sam often has two competing priorities 
 demanding his attention. There are the tasks that the JBA wants him to do, while he also has to 
 keep the NSA happy. This is indicated by a trust meter at the bottom of the screen. If Sam fails 
 an objective for one group, the respective trust meter falls accordingly. Often it's possible to 
 keep both groups happy. For instance, in one mission, Sam has to knock out a radio antenna for 
 the JBA, but before you do so, you can use it to transmit a message to the NSA. On rarer occasions, 
 the game tries to present a moral conundrum by giving you competing objectives. An example of this 
 is when you're told by the JBA to execute a civilian prisoner. Doing so would put you in the JBA's 
 good graces, but it would also make you a bit unpopular with the NSA. Still, it's easy to make 
 up with one side or another by accomplishing many of the secondary objectives in the game.  

          Sam will go from the dizzying heights of a Chinese skyscraper to the frigid depths of 
 the arctic.     

  You score higher if you can get through a level without ever being detected or raising an alarm, 
 though much of the time, you can play aggressively and take out guards somewhat brazenly. And in 
 a game like Double Agent, it's hard to resist the aggressive route because being able to sneak 
 around in the darkness and whack people like an assassin is so much fun. You can whip out the silenced 
 pistol or advanced rifle that Sam carries, snap necks, use the knife in creative ways, and more. 
 One of the coolest kill moves involves swimming underneath arctic ice, coming up below a guard 
 atop the ice, shattering the ice to plunge the guard into the water, and then smoothly stabbing 
 the guard in the heart. It's such an awesome sight that it never gets old.  

  Getting through the single-player game will take about eight to 10 hours, but the majority of the 
 replay value can be found in Double Agent's impressive multiplayer gameplay, which builds on the 
 spies-versus-mercenaries mode introduced in earlier Splinter Cell games. Basically, a match can 
 pit three players playing as nimble spies against the other three players who are playing as heavily 
 armed mercenaries. The spies have no weapons but are armed with high-tech espionage gear, and their 
 job is to hack into certain computer terminals to steal their secrets. Meanwhile, the mercenaries 
 have to do everything they can to prevent this from happening. What makes the multiplayer in Double 
 Agent better than its predecessors is the focused nature of the map design and the further differentiation 
 of the spies from Sam Fisher.  

  Like in the single-player game, spies are played from a third-person perspective. However, the 
 spies in multiplayer are a lot faster and nimbler than Sam. They also have their own moves, like 
 being able to jam the mercenaries' weapons. While unarmed, the spies can still take out mercenaries 
 if they can sneak up behind them and get them in a choke hold or can land on their heads. To play 
 as a spy, you've got to think and move fast because stealth is your major advantage over the mercenaries. 
 However, the moment you try to hack into a terminal, the alarms will go off, which means that the 
 mercenaries will come running your way. The mercenaries, on the other hand, are a bit more mobile 
 than before. You play as the mercenaries from a traditional first-person shooter perspective, but 
 now you can rappel down lines and slam spies to the ground with a head-butt or with your rifle. 
 It makes for a tense, fast-paced cat-and-mouse game. Double Agent's multiplayer is further enhanced 
 by a cooperative mode that lets you play with others as spies against mercenaries controlled by 
 artificial intelligence. Additionally, there are rewards for long-term play, which come in the 
 form of unlockable outfits.  

          Multiplayer offers up plenty of tense cat-and-mouse gameplay.     

  Earlier Splinter 
 Cell games in the series tended to look better on the Xbox than the PlayStation 2 since the series 
 was built around the more powerful hardware of the former. Because current-generation consoles 
 are comparable in power, it's not surprising that the PS3 version of Double Agent looks almost 
 as good as the Xbox 360 version, though there are some issues. For instance, the PS3 version lacks 
 some of the complex lighting and shadowing effects that were put to great use in the Xbox 360 version, 
 immersing you in the gloom. Meanwhile, night vision lacks the warm, glowing amplification of lights 
 seen in the Xbox 360 version, and the PS3 version doesn't have some of the 360 version's particle 
 effects, such as smoke plumes. Both versions also suffer from long loading times, as well as a 
 struggling frame rate at times (which struggles a bit harder on the PS3) . The good news is that 
 both versions still feature the unmistakable voice of Michael Ironside as Fisher and the voice 
 of Dennis Haysbert as Fisher's NSA boss, Irving Lambert. As you've come to expect from the series, 
 the voice acting is solid, as is the music, which amplifies when things get hairy and retreats 
 once the coast is clear.  

  Though it's not quite as sharp as the Xbox 360 version, the PS3 version of Double Agent is still 
 a great game. Ubisoft has managed to craft a well-rounded package that features the series' signature 
 stealth action gameplay, along with a rich and enjoyable multiplayer suite and some impressive 
 visuals. And while Sam likes to grumble a lot in the game about how he's getting too old for all 
 of this, Double Agent proves that there's plenty of life left in the franchise.     
-------------------------------------------------
:::User Reviews::: (43 Reviews)
::::::
UserName: WanderleiSilva2
Rating: 6.5
Date: Mar 16, 2009 1:32 pm PT
Review:  I bought this game with huge expectations derived from playing the PS2 series. I played it for 
 about 10 hours over a span of 2 weeks and was so disguisted with my purchase that I brought it 
 back to the store and traded it in. The game may not be as bad as I am making it sound, but since 
 my expectations were so high from loving the PS2 games, I was expecting PS3 greatness from Sam 
 Fischer...... and I got crap in return.
  
  The Good -
  1. Familiar story and character setting...... giving you a feel that the game is a continuation 
 of the series, yet there is also a feel that there are 2 stories built into 1 game.
  2. New weapons and gadgets to play around with.
  3. Audio and sound effects are smooth.
  4. 
 AI is not as robotic as the PS2 series..... Enemie's seem to be smarter.
  5. Nice underwater maneuvering and skydiving theatrics.
  
  The Bad -
  1. Graphics are absolutely 
 terrible..... Very choppy with PS2 quality. 
  2. Gameplay is horrible and not standard or similiar to any third person or first person shooter...... 
 I can understand if they have default settings, but for crying out loud, allow the players to customize 
 the controls!
  3. Lock picking is simple and requires no skill at all..... They ruined the fun out of the PS2 
 games by making it so easy to pick locks.
  
  
  All and all, I planned for something that Ubisoft could have given me, but failed to deliver. I 
 don't recommend this game even as a "used" purchase. This game is bad for the franchise...... I 
 will be skeptical if another Splinter Cell follows. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Death_Blade_182
Rating: 9
Date: Dec 16, 2008 2:28 pm PT
Review:  If you liked any other Splinter Cell game, then you'll definitively like Double Agent. It's not 
 for people who expect a lot of action and shooting, because that's not what Splinter Cell is about, 
 it's all about stealth, and not the kind of stealth found in the MGS series, this is REAL stealth, 
 you'll have to remain hidden in the shadows for minutes, waiting for that guard to turn his back 
 and then silently kill him...
  
  The graphics are really good, the shadows are just awesome and character models look good too.
 
  
  Now, on to the gameplay. There's a lot of cool gadgets at your disposal which yu can use to lure 
 your enemies out in the open, stun them, or even kill them (although I feel they were a lot more 
 useful in Chaos Theory) . Hacking has been improved , and now it's a lot more easier and simple; 
 lock picking remains the same though (something I didn't like is that once you get the electronic 
 lock pick, you can't change back to the standard ones) . You also got some cool new moves, such 
 as dragging enemies into the water through the ice to stab them in the heart
  
  You got plenty of different objectives which assure you won't be doing the same every time you 
 play, there is as well, a good variety of levels, a Hotel in Shanghai (My personal favorite) , a 
 boat in Cozumel, Iceland, a war zone in Kinshasa... as i said, it's a good variety, sadly, there's 
 only a couple more levels, so the game seemed a little short to me. Something I also noticed is 
 that you'll rarely have to use any of the special visions, such as the night Vision or the Thermal 
 Vision.
  
  there are a couple of missions in the JBA HQ, in which you're given a set amount of time to complete 
 a couple of objectives for either the JBA or the NSA. These missions are kinda lousy, because they 
 mainly consist of boring mini-games that will soon become tedious, specially the E-mail hacking 
 mini-game....
  
  I really can't say anything about the multiplayer, because although I bought the game as soon as 
 it came out, I never played the multiplayer until recently, and there was absolutely no one in 
 there, but it looks pretty decent since I could play with the computer (Although, i must state 
 I didn't like the new models of the SHADOWNET agents) .
  
  Overall, it's a really good game, but you must like its stealth gameplay to really enjoy it, otherwise 
 you'll find it boring. But as far as i'm concerned, it's awesome. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zanyboy1982
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 13, 2008 6:10 am PT
Review:  the game is exciting but yet challenging, all characters have been polished
  up with much better graphics, also take into consideration that the game
  is been ivolving with 
 new moves all the time, One of a kind, everything you need from splinter cell, the game is for 
 those
  who love to think before they click, coool, try the game and you know that its worth every cent. 
 the mulitiplayer is one of the most coolest features in the game, the game is exciting but yet 
 challenging, all characters have been polished
  up with much better graphics, also take into consideration that the game
  is been ivolving with 
 new moves all the time, One of a kind, everything you need from splinter cell, the game is for 
 those
  who love to think before they click, coool, try the game and you know that its worth every cent. 
 the mulitiplayer is one of the most coolest features in the game, the game is exciting but yet 
 challenging, all characters have been polished 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Gokunami
Rating: 8
Date: Nov 17, 2008 4:03 pm PT
Review:  Double agent will have you playing both sides of the fence. Decide where your loyalty is and complete 
 the missions. This is how military shooter games should be made. You against the world with just 
 your wits and a gun. Ok, a couple of guns and some gadgets. This new twist makes this game so interesting 
 compared to its counterparts. You get to pick and choose which parts of the mission you will take 
 on. But there are consequences to your actions. Try to stay neutral and do just enough for both 
 sides. That's the best way I saw to stay alive. The action is more intense and the drama is definitely 
 heightened. This is a must for your collection and to add to the series. I will play this over 
 and over cause there are so many ways you can go. The outcome should never be the same. Got to 
 get your own copy cause mine is being used. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Blood_Diamond
Rating: 8.5
Date: Oct 18, 2008 4:19 pm PT
Review:  Hiya yall,
  
  All of the splinter cell games have been amazing i have loved all of them even this one. I didn't 
 enjoy this one as much as i did the rest but i still enjoyed it none the less.
  
  First off the story good, not that griping but fun to change the story where and when you can pick 
 your side that's fun also.
  
  The new mechanics are more than welcome, grabing some unsuspecting guard just as he walks around 
 the corner and interrogating him is so fun. 
  
  Stealth is still the name of the game but the new system in which you are gauged in hiding is a 
 pain, after a few hours you will get use to it but the old system is still better. 
  
  Never played online so i can't comment on that.
  
  But over all good story, quite a few missions 
 but still not as long as i would of hoped though. Recommended for all. First time play can be difficult 
 getting use to the way things are done and there are some moments that will just make me feel so 
 pleased with your self. 
  
  Thanks for reading 
  
  Blood Diamond 
::::::

::::::
UserName: JJPasadena
Rating: 7
Date: Oct 8, 2008 2:34 pm PT
Review:  I pretty much knew right away that something was wrong with SC: DA as soon as I started snooping 
 around the menu screens. They were poorly set-up and sometimes empty. Worse yet they would lock 
 up on me -- keeping me there for sometimes 30 seconds before letting me go back to the previous menu 
 screen. The other thing I noticed right away was the opening cut scene going into the training 
 mission went all choppy, froze, and then went frame-by-frame (and no the disc wasn't dirty, as 
 it was a brand new fresh out of the case disc) . These were NOT deal-breaker situations for me at 
 all! Let me be clear. But what they did show me was that I was about to get into a game that did 
 not hold up to the usual Ubisoft standards. I'll make this review quick. I gave SC: DA a 7.0 because 
 I am almost positive that for whatever reason, this game was rushed out. First of all I am NOT 
 a graphics-whore. However when I am playing a Tom Clancy game put out by Ubisoft, I have expectations 
 as far as how nice a game will look. I was let down. In many cases the lighting effects did not 
 hold up to the same attention to detail that past Splinter Cells did. The backgrounds and level 
 designs sometimes looked that of a PS2! Now I am not saying that the game on a whole looked like 
 a PS2 game. However as far as I'm concerned any game with a budget as large as SC: DA shouldn't 
 have ANY of the graphic gaffes that it had. For the most part this was a very decent game. There 
 were moments that had me just as stressed out as past Spinter Cells. I liked some of the new moves 
 that Sam can pull off. I think that the scope and aiming system was too forgiving at times! Never 
 thought I'd say that. Seriously though, there were times when I KNOW that I didn't register a head-shot 
 or shoot out the light bulb, but to my surprise I did. My only other knock is with the enemy A. I., 
 at times it was too predictable and insanely unresponsive. I shot a desktop computer next to a 
 guard (on accident) and the sucker did NOTHING because his back was to me. Those are my complaints. 
 It's still a Splinter Cell and it's still fun as hell to play. Having to worry about keeping both 
 sides happy all the while you're trying to stay alive makes for some great gameplay. Speaking of 
 keeping the factions happy, in my opinion, this feature adds a good dose of replay to this title. 
 Online multiplayer ends up being the gem of this game. There are some interesting "co-op" missions 
 that left me wondering, "how in the hell is this co-op!?!?" But nothing that takes away from the 
 game. All in all my final verdict is this: my knocks? I feel like Ubisoft fails to take any risks 
 with Splinter Cell and this game feels too much like every other Splinter Cell. I'm talking about 
 game mechanics and atmosphere people, obviously the storyline is a total 180. My other knocks 
 are that at times the graphics and polish look rushed. My positives? The storyline is awesome! 
 I love playing both sides in the drama... I always knew Sam Fisher was a drama queen! The online 
 multiplayer is off the hook. If this is your first time playing Splinter Cell then you're in for 
 a treat. But if you're like me and you've played every single title in the franchise, you'll still 
 enjoy this one, but certain parts of it will leave you wanting more. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Michformer
Rating: 10
Date: Jun 12, 2008 7:40 pm PT
Review:  When I bought this game for PS3, it was one of the best-looking games on the PS3 I received since 
 I bought the PS3 system. Compared to the 360, there is ,at spots, some graphical improvements such 
 as additional shadowing, crisper shading, more detailed sweat and smoother animation. But, the 
 frame-rate can sometimes jiggles, but I already encountered that and that wasn't bad at ALL just 
 like the 360. Overall, the PS3 iteration is an outstanding port of the 360 original with some minor 
 graphical improvements to make the game much more crisp resulting into a 10. This is certainly 
 a msterpiece to own NOW or you visual yum-yums will miss something extremely awesome! The gameplay 
 is great, innovative and fun. The JBA missions were fairly incredible and worth the risk because 
 you must complete your desired objectives in a time limit of 25 minutes. You must be standing at 
 a indicated area so that the person that gived you the objectives will meet you there. Be careful, 
 if you are wandering around when time's out, you will lose JBA trust, so get to the area as fast 
 as you can (Well, sorry. No running in HQ.) . This game is a intense stunner! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: osmifura
Rating: 7.5
Date: Jun 8, 2008 10:51 am PT
Review:  The graphics are awesome and everything looks real. I like the fact that Ubisoft went out of the 
 normal playground and on this game you go under cold water with well protected equipment. I go 
 different places in the world and part where it looks like it would be -20 degrees I guess. I like 
 the different scenarios and not the same, same like other games.
  The menu and your help, also maps are well explained.
  The bad is too much to do around and no 
 action when playing. The aiming sucks donkey balls and the different guns that the game has aren't 
 that great. And those 2 last points makes it easy to get kill no matter what. I had a good experience 
 with Rainbow Six Vegas 1 and that's why I thought all Tom Clancy's games were going to be awesome, 
 but not. This game is not that great.
  The online playing ill give it a 6 out of 10. I don't know why but personally I didn't like it 
 and I only played it for like not even 10 minutes. I didn't enjoy it at all.
  I haven't been too far on the game but what I been so far it is not a 100% all I wanted it to be.
 
  You can't run fast what makes me go slow and I get delay on going through the game. I feel like 
 it is a little hard to control you person you're playing with. (I forgot his name, dammit.)
  Over all I give this game a 7.5 which it's not bad but not great.
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: supa_badman
Rating: 9
Date: May 6, 2008 8:35 pm PT
Review:  its tom clancys splinter cell double agent, and its one of the best in the series. its a great 
 game, despite of all the other complaints and problems that other people seem to have with this 
 game. although there are some bad points its certainly not a bad game and shouldnt be missed
  
  SUPA_BADMAN'S PRO/CON RATINGS
  +good online and easy to navigate
  +even better gameplay 
 and open missions
  +at times pulls off some very nice visuals
  +level design is better than past splintercells
  
  - framerate issues are annoying but can 
 be overlooked
  -when you finish the game you might wish that there was more story missions.
  -can really be 
 difficult and might have to do the whole trial and error thing that might get you angry. but doesnt 
 happen a lot of times
  
  in conclusion dont always believe what you hear or believe, i read reviews and it said that this 
 was a mediocre game and couldve been better. although the couldve been better is true, you wouldnt 
 really care after you play it, because its actually a good game, so come on down and play, there 
 are necks just waiting to be snapped.
  
  final score 8.8 ( yes the the score says something else but this is the real score) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: 01keegan
Rating: 7.5
Date: May 6, 2008 2:30 pm PT
Review:  To beging things off with you play as Sam Fisher, which is a secret agent who of course works for 
 the good guys all the time. Until a lot of bad fate catches up with you and you find yourelf playig 
 both sides of the fence and burning the candle quickly. By having to be a double agent. This means 
 you will have to complete mission for both sides, the good and the bad. Which also means that you 
 relly have to think about the decisions that you make and what they may lead to . 
  Good things; the graphics are pretty good and the actions and movements of main character are very 
 realistic. so are the places that you will visit and the surrouning enviroment is changing. since 
 they have changed it to a lot of the missions being done in the day time, you have to be more stealthy, 
 and careful and smarter then in the other games. the story turns out to be intertaining, because 
 it is different, and the choices that you make will effect you through out the game and aso the 
 ending has several different ways it can go. lots of really cool moves, guns and gadgets to use 
 . 
  Bad things; the first few minutes of play and you run into a glich. the games starts freezing up 
 and slows down something alwful. only last for a short time and is gone. the online could have 
 been a lot better, couldnt make any sense of it. not much use for night goggles, so why does he 
 always wear them? 
  Over all: the game is a pretty good Tom Clancy game if you like them, which most people do. or 
 if you are just looking for a good stealth game. But there is always room for improvment. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: LittleBigGamer1
Rating: 9.5
Date: May 4, 2008 2:12 am PT
Review:  Ubisoft
  March 29th 2007
  1 Player 1-6 player on the Playstation Network.
  
  Splinter Cell's Story mode is very fun but i haven't beaten it yet.
  
  Coz I'm always playing 
 on the online section!!!
  
  
  The online is very fun... the spy's have to hack a terminal and download a complete file... The 
 Opsilon Forces has to make sure that the spy's don't get 2 complete files..
  
  Opsilon is equipped with a Machine Gun and can shot or when the spy is close you can hold R1 to 
 whack or R3 to do a 360 spin whack thing...
  
  The Spy doesn't have any weapon but they have a hacking device on which they can neutralize Opsilon 
 Forces other ways to attack is to slit there necks but that can be quite difficult because you 
 have to be behind the Opsilon.
  
  You can also land on the Opsilon Guy to get then on the ground for about 5 seconds.
  
  there 
 is also another mode on online mode and you have to complete mission together (co-op) example get 
 1% of a file and bring it back to the base or get as much of download as you can you need to get 
 a certain amount of file to get Gold.
  
  
  
  Thanks Casey,
  I hope i helped your decision to buy this game or not!
  The rating i gave would have been 9.2 
 but it doesn't work . LOL 
::::::

::::::
UserName: dutch777
Rating: 10
Date: Mar 30, 2008 6:55 pm PT
Review:  In Double Agent we take control the control of Sam Fisher but is not the Fisher we knew. Now Sam 
 is a member of a terrorist company (JBA) . Sam become member of this company to arrest the leader 
 of JBA (Emile) for NASA (Lambert) , because he is dangerous to be free but Sam decided to take this 
 mission not because Emile was dangerous for the world but because someone from JBA murdered his 
 daughter and now he wants revenge. To complete the game you have to control the trust meter. Also 
 trust meter affects your equipment to each stage so you better be careful. This game is fun, heart-pounding 
 in your ears when some heavily armed terrorist is just around the corner, waiting to blow you away 
 for fun. In the beginning, you don't get any in game controls advice, I had to look in the manual 
 for the basics, which keeps the story authentic. You can choose to be a bad*** and kill everyone, 
 but you'll lose trust from the NSA. Or, if you're working for JBA approval, you try not and get 
 alerts when infiltrating a location. I won't say much about the story, except that you are an Agent 
 for the NSA who has to go undercover in the JBA (John Brown's Army) that I mentioned above. As you 
 complete objectives that the NSA gives you, you unlock new gadgets such as the electronic lock 
 pick and the hacking speed upgrade. The sound is good in the game, especially when you trigger 
 an enemy's alert mode, there is a distinctive whine sound that lets you know that you're in the 
 wrong place. The voice work is a wonderful A+ as well. The graphics are solid for characters, such 
 as Sam and others in the JBA, but grunts you pick up in the field might have small issues, such 
 as their mouths not moving when they talk, but it's easily overlooked. Certain textures seem a 
 little blurry, and when you really get moving through a hectic environment, the frame rate stutters 
 a bit. It only happened to me once or twice. I've got to say this is definitely good show. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: andyplatinum
Rating: 7.5
Date: Feb 27, 2008 1:03 pm PT
Review:  Double Agent is Splinter Cells debut on the PS3. It is based around Tom Fisher becoming a double 
 agent and working on both sides which feature many enjoyable missions. The gameplay in Double Agent 
 is very good and at times you feel that your really in the action. Missions are demanding but fun 
 and you could say other than the dodgy deaths. Sadly the visuals don't quite tell the same tale. 
 Splinter Cell on PS3 is a port and it shows as alot of the visuals are poor. Sometimes visuals 
 aren't too bad but normally there isn't much good about them but there is one occasion where the 
 game looks picturesque (on the cruise ship) . Other than that, the story is good and the puzzles 
 can be tough, yet fun. Overall Double Agent is a good game and is definitely worth playing, even 
 if it is a port - 7.5
  
  + Stealth at its best
  + Challenging puzzles
  + Fun missions 
  - 360 port
  - Less than excellent visuals
  
  
  
::::::

::::::
UserName: Kevman22
Rating: 4
Date: Jan 4, 2008 6:30 am PT
Review:  I like games that keep me thinking, where the enemy doesn't know of your presence until it is too 
 late. Metal Gear Solid is the perfect example of a Stealth/Action/Adventure game that I fell in 
 love with, but splinter cell has never really seemed like a game I'd really dig. 
  
  I picked it up for 19.99$ at BestBuy, during boxing day. Saved myself 50$. Brought it home, and 
 played it. The visuals are great, and the NPC's have random movements. It was interesting, but 
 what killed me was having to sneak around. Being more of a 'Run n Gun' kind of player, it really 
 didn't work out. No matter what I had done, the enemy NPC's would catch me. 
  
  So, after 4 days of trying, I finally beat the intro level. Wow, did I feel smart. Then for some 
 reason it went to a cut scene of Fisher after the mission, learning about a family member dying. 
 Then his downfall.. Ironically enough, an NSA agent lands himself in prison with all of his gear 
 still on him. Which is too far fetched for even a small child to believe. 
  
  The game slowly progresses in to escaping this prison, where riots are going on in every corridor, 
 meanwhile guards are still patrolling like nothing is happening in the room next to them, while 
 a man dressed in orange pants, and a wife beater is crawling around, killing his friends. No, it 
 seems way too realistic, especially since these guys are dropping pistols left and right, and you 
 can't pick one up, you have to stick to your knife, and smoke grenades until you find a non-lethal 
 riot gun. Is the government really going to care that a top NSA agent killed some scrub prison 
 guard? I think not. 
  
  Anyway, I give it 4/10. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: imtheman4
Rating: 8.5
Date: Nov 18, 2007 8:06 am PT
Review:  Well guys this game is good for the most part. Ive played and beat both the PS3 and 360 one. I 
 go PS3 all the way!!!!!!!! But sadly the game is better on the 360. The PS3 one is basicly the 
 same besides minor changes in the map and that it is very glitchy! I shot a guy who was smoking 
 a cigar and when he fell hes cigar didnt. It was funny but at the same time aggravating because 
 (if im right) the PS3 one came out later than the 360 one and its worse. Bassicly this is a game 
 that leaves more to be disired. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Wuflungdung
Rating: 4
Date: Nov 5, 2007 10:45 am PT
Review:  I have never been a splinter cell fan, and I don't know I thought I would like this one, but I 
 bought it and have regretted it ever since. I read the reviews and it sounded like it might be 
 a change in the series, it wasn't.
  
  Splinter Cell Double Agent, has some nice graphics, the usual storyline, a nice twist on the gameplay 
 with working for 2 groups. There are lots of online multiplayer modes to be played with lots of 
 opponents to be found and to be played with.
  
  This is all well and good, but for me I find the game slow, tedious and just plain boring. While 
 it may be new and improved to me it feels like the same old stuff you come to expect from splinter 
 cell. I wouldn't want to stop anyone from trying this game out, if you like the previous games 
 in the series or you like games like Metal Gear Solid then this would be a great purchase. But 
 I would say if you don't like the previous splinter cells, I wouldn't bother trying this one out. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Darkkiller145
Rating: 10
Date: Sep 17, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  In Double Agent we take control the control of Sam Fisher but is not the Fisher we knew. Now Sam 
 is a member of a terrorist company (JBA) . Sam become member of this company to arrest the leader 
 of JBA (Emile) for NASA (Lambert) , because he is dangerous to be free but Sam decided to take this 
 mission not because Emile was dangerous for the world but because someone from JBA murdered his 
 daughter and now he wants revenge.
  
  To complete the game you have to control the trust meter. Also trust meter affects your equipment 
 to each stage so you better be careful.
  
  To gain respect for each side you have to complete some tasks for each side. To complete a stage 
 you have to complete the main tasks and then you go to the extraction point to complete the mission. 
 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Freelancer223
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jul 27, 2007 11:51 am PT
Review:  This game is similar to the other splinter cell games, in how the game plays, the only major difference 
 is that you have to work for both the good guys as well as the bad guys which means that that the 
 gamer gets morale decisions to chose throughout the game, like kill the hostage or not, this will 
 then effect the game. this is a nice feature to have but the decisions that you are faced with 
 can become repetitive as the game goes on having the same ones again and again, also it doesn't 
 really affect the game as much as i had hoped it would, the only major thing it affects is the 
 ending cut scene will be different depending on how you have chosen your decisions throughout the 
 game. The graphics on the game dont show the full potential of what the PS3 can cope with, but 
 they look more like a top notch PS2 game rather than a next-gen game. against that the graphics 
 dont really pull the game down, but on certain levels it can become a real problem, such as a 
 snow level where you have to infiltrate a ship and its snowing sometimes I struggled to see anything 
 let alone fisher (this made a lot of continues appear, from walking into enemies that could not 
 be seen) . For me the best part of the game is the online mode which i feel has been done incredibly 
 well. There is a wide selection on levels to play on, with the chance of doing missions with friends 
 as well as just the standard online mode. There are still problems with this though which include 
 not having a game lobby and being able to choose from a selection of games that are being hosted 
 and having to be randomly put into a game, which can causes problems when trying to play with friends. 
 Overall this is game is very good and should be brought as it compelling and intriguing and worth 
 it just for the online mode. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Serious
Rating: 9.5
Date: Jun 27, 2007 4:00 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher has latest adventure is fabulously original. This time you are a double agent. All the 
 stealth that we love and enjoy is here. But not you much make decisions that affect the outcome 
 of the game. The controls are easy to learn and if this is your first time playing the game you 
 might want to play the on line game or tutorials to get a better handle on the game control layout. 
 Graphics are great still aren't at the level of what I think is next gen. but it will come. How 
 does it compare with the Xbox 360? Do you care? If you getting this for a PS3 then your decision 
 has been made. I saw no graphic glitches but there was some slow down with the online game. Game 
 play is exciting. You feel like your really a double agent as you try to fulfill the various task 
 set before you. It will take some time to get used to all of the controls but its all part of the 
 fun. Sound is very good. Music is okay. but I find all game music to be detracting and usually 
 opt to mute it. This is a great buy for the value. If you like movies like The Bourne Ultimatum 
 or Shooter this game gives you the chance to be the hero and have a lot of fun doing it. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: princesslyssiee
Rating: 7.7
Date: Jun 16, 2007 7:06 pm PT
Review:  Ok, This game is basically an espionauge game. You have many gadgets, weapons, and other stuff 
 just like any other Splinter Cell game. SC: DA has a campaign that took me 25 hours to beat (becuase 
 it was REALLY HARD for me) . Anways, the gameplay is the same as any other SC game out there. However, 
 it has a trust bar thingy and if you screw up for the terrorists, your bar for the terrorists go 
 down, and for the NSA it's the same case. If you have one of them go down to nothing, you get a 
 game over. It's pretty cool, and people might like it, but personally, I didn't like that because 
 it made it a burden to play how I wanted to play (killing everything in sight) . The single player 
 is GRUESOME, and if you've never played a SC before, like me, you'll have a tough time beating 
 this game. The multilplayer is spy vs. guard (i forgot their names sorry) . Spies try to hack into 
 a computer and get all the files, while guards try to obliterate the spies from existence. Spies 
 have no weapons, but cool gadgets, and acrobatics. Guards have assault rifles with grenade launchers 
 on them. I don't know about the 360 version of this game, but online games had some lag and games 
 crashed a few times. If you love Splinter Cell, you'll love this, if you don't stay far, far, from 
 the general direction of the continent this game is on. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MGS4eva
Rating: 6.9
Date: Jun 10, 2007 12:06 pm PT
Review:  Its a good game for ps3 but Ubisoft just need to stop making imports for ps3 and remake the game 
 with ps3 graphics. Too many glitchs in this game. But also on X BOX 360 has more stages and its 
 just an Xbox game to even come with. PS3 had really nothing different except worse and thats lack 
 of stages and enter multiplayer without being online. Ubisoft knows they can do better on a ps3 
 console. And even when you first buy the game you have to download it to the ps3 platform that 
 takes a least about 5 to 10 minutes to play the game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: UTIxxx50
Rating: 8.3
Date: Jun 8, 2007 7:17 pm PT
Review:  first, let me tell you the bad news: although the graphics look good, they aren't as great as the 
 xbox 360 version. and the loading times are long and there are some framerate issues. and let me 
 tell you the good news: the stealth action gameplay remains tense, exciting and excellent, the multiplayer 
 is still awesome, there are some hi-tech gadgets, you get to go to some great destinations and the 
 trust system makes your decisions very important in the game. splinter cell double agent for the 
 ps3 is a good game but the the xbox 360 version is better and it's also the best one. buy this game 
 if you haven't played it yet, if you don't own an xbox 360 or if you want to be an elite secret 
 agent that saves the world. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gokxxx
Rating: 9
Date: Jun 4, 2007 2:42 pm PT
Review:  Well this game has some history with me, i remember when this game was first in series, i said to 
 myself that i will never play this game, because i just didnt like it. But there was nothing to 
 play on the ps2 that day, and my dad brought me this game i played it and i liked it very much, and 
 i remind myself never look in the outside look in the inside of the game and then you will know 
 this game is superb or is it just some piece of crap. So where was i? oh yeah the game is cool you 
 can hide in the dark from enemies, thats what i like the most and the fact that when they dont see 
 you you can just knocked down them. But all the series were made to not get through the difficult 
 security lazers, cameras and lights. This time the game was made by the thing that you will have 
 earn trust to the authorities and the bad guys, because you work as a double agent, well thats the 
 name of the game. On ps3 this game is very cool, the graphics are amazing and the sound is very realistic. Well 
 see ya... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sytzepunk
Rating: 8.8
Date: Jun 2, 2007 11:36 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent (SC4) is a stealth game who gets into the nex-gen action, Splinter 
 Cell is a well known Stealth game that stole the hearts of many players, and yet again Ubisoft 
 made another amazing stealth game.
  
  Gameplay/AI/Story:
  Stealth, do I have to say more? You'll be walking on you're toes most of the time because the aggresive 
 AI and low health makes the game a stealthy title.
  
  Theres a rather plot twist that changes the game a fair bit, after you're daughter has been killed 
 and that you, Sam Fisher is a emotional wreck, the company you're working for think its a good 
 time to use it as cover to let you work for the enemy, to have you in their base and the enemy 
 seeing you as a normal terrorist, you can kill enemies even easier now.
  
  Theres a fair amount of weapons in the game, with ranging from lots of different grenades and mines, 
 some of them are pretty innovative, like the Wall Mine which explodes if their are people near 
 it, or my personal favorite: The Sticky bomb.
  
  Sometimes the weapons are a pain in the butt, it sometimes takes seconds in combat to just throw 
 a grenade or smoke grenade because their are people are on the lookout for you.
  
  Another fun feature in the game are obviously, the heatseaking mode, and the soundgun, which actually 
 shoots a pellet that'll sound like a can thats getting kicked against a wall, its great for distracting 
 enemies and you'll be using it to get into certain places.
  
  Graphics:
  Stunning, I haven't played the Xbox 360 version yet, but these graphics do the job good, explosions 
 look good and the action in the game can get pretty tense, mostly driving you back because Sam 
 Fisher can't take lots of terrorists Rambo style.
  
  Multiplayer:
  This game has some impressive multiplayer, the modes on it are pretty basic but with a few unique 
 ones, the fun of the tools you have like Wall mines get into play here.
  
  Is it a good stealth game:
  Best stealth game for the PS3 and Xbox360 up to date, thats unless 
 MGS4 comes out anytime soon now. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: jimbobmcnab
Rating: 8
Date: May 7, 2007 11:33 am PT
Review:  Let us yelp for joy at the return of Sam Fisher and his first attempt at next-gen platforms. There 
 is always something wonderful about sneaking about breaking necks in random buildings who cares 
 what the reason is, and once again Splinter Cell pulls it off well, the introduction of the double 
 agent storyline and decisions is innovative all be it easy to manipulate and basically disregard. 
 However the missions at terrorist headquarters leaving you weaponless are alot of fun attempting 
 to sneak undetected resisting an urge to want to break necks left right and centre, and the few 
 times your missions take place in daytime are a nice addition. But its not all good occasionally 
 PS3 framerate issues do occur slowing the game to what can only be called utter s**te and infuriate 
 even the calmest of gamers.
  
  The online play of the game while not perfect is most entertaining going 3 on 3 spies to mercenaries 
 (nothing beats running for your life away from machine gun fire) , with a array of maps all with 
 convienient hiding places for spies and mercenaries kitted out with machine guns complete with 
 torch, spy detectors, grenades and EMF vision it comes down to player skill who wins.
  
  Overall the game isn't flawless but is great to play, Sam has made a big jump and landed with quite 
 sure footing, while there isn't a great deal of replay value online play will keep you going for 
 a good while after completion. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: gschoenb
Rating: 7
Date: May 5, 2007 8:25 pm PT
Review:  THE GOOD:
  - Good selection of weapons and stealth tools makes the gameplay ever changing
  
  - Good, if not great, sound quality throughout
  
  - Decent story line keeps things interesting
 
  
  - Availibility of unique online modes
  
  - Some graphics effects are interesting (especially snow fall in the Arctic mission... although 
 it kills visibility which is very annoying)
  
  THE BAD:
  - Graphics in general are not up to par with other PS3 games. It looks more like a PS2.5 game
 
  
  - SIngle player game has some very frustrating parts. You have to play the same spot over a few 
 times in frustration. They you get it... and it's really easy. It's not that your solving puzzles 
 that take a while to complete, it's just really easy to miss a ladder, rope, etc. to figure out 
 where to go. Overall the gameplay is mediocore. - Controls take a while to get used to, and can 
 be frustrating even after you learn them. Some attack controls seem delayed, which makes stealth 
 a difficult thing to master.
  
  - Maybe the Metal Gear Solid series set the bar high for stealth gameplay, but it's 2007 and this 
 game falls well short of the MGS bar.
  
  - Online play is unique, but frustrating. I tried it a few times, but never really got into it. 
 I just got bored of it.
  
  - Some parts of the story line and voice over are incredibly cheesy 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Nos14x
Rating: 9.1
Date: Apr 29, 2007 1:01 pm PT
Review:  Ok so many people show scda on the ps3 as an bad investement. Well if you actually played the game, 
 and not read the reviews that were made by x360 fans, then you would think differently. The graphics 
 are outstanding. Honestly there is only one key difference between x360 and the ps3. That is just 
 the arm bands and flags on the characters. Everything on the game is basically the same. Also the 
 frame rate is barely noticable. Overall the game is amazing. It plays great, and has a great storyline. 
 Also the online play is awesome. No other game plays and looks like this game. Its a must buy for 
 all splinter cell fans. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mazz80
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 29, 2007 10:16 am PT
Review:  After originally downloading the PC demo I was a bit skeptical on whether or not to buy the PS3 
 game. Then 2 weeks ago my little brother bought a 360 and downloaded the 360 demo and I was immediately 
 hooked. The PS3 version of the game sports very good graphics and sound. On some of the missions 
 I found myself replaying certain parts just to view the incredible graphics again. The frame-rate 
 problems others have had are not present on my copy/machine. When comparing the PS3 version to 
 the 360, I would have to give the PS3 version the nod in terms of graphics. The sound is on par 
 with past Splinter Cell games with high quality voices and effects.
  
  The online multiplayer is a little bit boring and lacks Resistance qualities.
  
  Overall if 
 you are looking for a good stealth game look no further. You will become instantly hooked! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MajinVegeta2
Rating: 8.9
Date: Apr 22, 2007 10:32 pm PT
Review:  If you just adjust your tv, this game can look better than 360 so HAAHAA you idiot 360 noobs LOL 
 'o' . Also, the missions are great as well as the multiplayer online, which is fun after you learn 
 how to play it good. Overall, I think this game lived up to its expectations with good graphics 
 and terrific gameplay. The game sometimes does lag a little but makes up for it with the gameplay 
 mechanics as well as with all the customizable weapons and gadgets. The online mode is a lot better 
 because of the changes made and, YES, finally a new gameplay mode, different from the previous 
 2 games in the series. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Haseokicksass
Rating: 7.5
Date: Oct 20, 2007 2:09 am PT
Review:  This is my first Splinter Cell game and i hope it isent the best because its not great. The Solo 
 mode is pretty boring ,well thats what i think. Its nothing that interesting, so far :P. But, the 
 best part about this game is the online. When i first played solo mode, i got boring on my first 
 hour of owning it. But online changed that. Sneaking around, stealing information and searchign 
 areas for spys is too much fun. I love being a spy and just messin around with the other team. 
 Shutting of lights, breaking glass and crackin there necks. Ive never played a better online game. 
 But even tho the online is fun, it will get boring and you will have nothing to do. So i recommened 
 renting this game. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: willps3
Rating: 6.8
Date: Apr 16, 2007 8:38 pm PT
Review:  Where do I begin. The frame rate has gotten worse and the level of detail has decreased. I miss 
 the dual shock control. What the hell?
  The game cost me 59.99. I tried to impress my xbox 360 enemies convincing them this would be better 
 on PS3. Now I just don't want to see their faces. All I hear is 600 bucks down the drain . What 
 the hell is going on? I'm supposed to own those 360 bastards. The game is still Splinter Cell. 
 You have many missions to complete in every level. You have to balance out your trust between your 
 allies and the terrorists to complete the missions. You will see different cut scenes depending 
 on your decisions and the level meter of trust. These key features of the game remain which still 
 makes it a great game to own. The multiplayer is fun and it's free and I'll give 2 thumbs up for 
 that. You might want to wait a little for the price to go down or if you own an XBOX 360 it should 
 be real cheap already and most likely enjoy it more on that console. At leat I don't have to pay 
 for online gaming! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: francisgraham
Rating: 6.4
Date: Apr 16, 2007 2:24 am PT
Review:  This has better graphics than 360 version? Come on people did no one read the review, No special 
 effects and a rubbish framerate means it cant even run the game to the same standard, and dont 
 anyone even dare say it was a lazy port! I also have the 360 version and theres quite a few things 
 missing (textures, lighting, smoke, particles, subdued colours, framerate even worse) , The content 
 itself is the same which is excellent considering there isnt many ps3 games online capable at the 
 moment. I would still say buy it if you either dont own a 360 or havent played the pc one either 
 because if them versions didnt exist this would get a higher score, but unfortunately they do and 
 we being humans, we naturaly compare everything with everything! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Mage25
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 15, 2007 12:40 pm PT
Review:  okay why does this game get an 8.5 on 360 but then it gets an 8.0 on ps3 when the ps3 version has 
 better graphics... do people just hate on this system becouse its better or what??? oh and single 
 player is more of the same but a little better and online is awsome but not to newbie friendly... 
 but if you get with a good squad of freinds its an incredible amount of fun and team work... and 
 i think this thing has to be like 100 words so now im filling... anyone else hate that girlfreind 
 song by avril lavien... 
::::::

::::::
UserName: hashem_kousar
Rating: 8.3
Date: Apr 14, 2007 8:30 am PT
Review:  As part of the JBA, Sam must complete objectives set by them to gain their trust as well as complete 
 objectives from the NSA. The decisions he has to make will become increasingly difficult as he 
 progresses through the game. Earlier decisions, such as deciding whether or not to free all of 
 the prisoners during the prison breakout, will just affect his score, but as the game progresses, 
 Sam is faced with serious choices that could kill thousands if made wrong, but may blow his cover 
 if he doesn't do it.
  
  Despite this, Sam must make the JBA trust him, in order to gain access to the restricted areas 
 of their base and complete NSA objectives. If he is seen in restricted areas before he is allowed 
 to go there, it will dramatically effect his trust with the JBA. Similarly, if he is caught using 
 an NSA gadget or picking a lock in JBA HQ, he will be killed on sight.
  
  He is also watched by the JBA in most of his missions, if he is seen completing NSA objectives 
 or is thought to be doing something out of the ordinary, his trust will go down. Killing people 
 apart from those ordered to be taken out will affect his NSA trust in the same way. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: MiltaJay
Rating: 9
Date: Apr 14, 2007 6:47 am PT
Review:  When I first purchased SCDA for the Xbox360, I got a thrill ride experiencing Sam's latest adventure. 
 I unfortunetly sold my Xbox360 and games for the PS3 (I just can't have two consoles) . Anyway this 
 edition of Splinter Cell is great just like the 360 counterpart. Everyone knows the story so I'll 
 get to the gameplay, which is great, especially with the use of the sixaxis control. Sam's movements 
 never felt better, as it's fluid and well controlled. One issue in almost everyone's mind is the 
 framerate. I must have the perfect copy cause I hardly experienced any dips, and the ones I did 
 I also experienced it on the Xbox360. Some areas I admit are a little slower but hardly noticeable. 
 As far as graphics, I don't know if it's because I have a quality HDTV, but I see this game better 
 than the Xbox360. Now before I get negative remarks, let me tell you why. The 360 looks beautiful, 
 but the colors are stong and loud and the lighting is too dark. Now I know this supposed to give 
 the game more detail and resolution, but it also makes it look cartoony. The PS3 graphics on the 
 other hand tends to be less loud and more natural looking giving the game that cinematic look. 
 The colors are less pronounced, and the lighting is brighter making certain scenes in the game 
 look a little washed out, but the developers deliberately did this to give the game that cinematic 
 look. As far as less detail, like less objects or people on screen, maybe that's what helped the 
 framerate a little, but it's no big deal, not like everyone puts it. Is this game a bad port? not 
 at all. If you love Splinter Cell and never got this next gen edition, then by all means get this 
 great game. Ignore all those Xbox360 users who have nothing better to do than criticize and bash 
 the so called bad framerate dilema. The reason why this game deserves a 9 in my view is because 
 it's the same game on the Xbox360 but with better graphics. Go ahead do your comparison and don't 
 go by those ugly low quality video clips you see in these websites. Like I said if you have a high 
 quality HDTV you will see and appreciate the difference. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: zooom_zoom
Rating: 8.5
Date: Apr 14, 2007 4:16 am PT
Review:  Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a rather complex game for those who have not played the stealth 
 spy game before. Not only is it rather hard to manoeuvre yourself throughout each mission but also 
 to know when to use what weapons and tactics at the appropriate time. For a first time player of 
 the Splinter Cell series, i was surprisingly aware how unique that game was to any other i have 
 played which was a pleasent first reaction. Though, i was puzzled throughout many parts of each 
 level, not only what to do but also where to go through the huge open maps. The graphics were very 
 impressive though i have not seen the game on the X360, as the maps were largely detailed and Sam 
 Fischer was particularly well shown through the clothing, facial expressions and sweat through 
 perspiration. Overall I enjoyed this game thoroughly though slightly confusing at times. I would 
 recommend this game to all players who enjoy strategy and shoot-em-up games, who enjoy mastering 
 stealth techniques to a tea.
  
  Peace 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Jeffrey17
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 7, 2007 2:17 am PT
Review:  Splinter cell double agent is a stealth game that delivers sharp graphics, awsome sound and an 
 unstable framerate. My only let down is the framerate issues, i dont know why ubisoft released 
 the game in this condition but i wouldnt of complained if they decided to delay it again. Because 
 when you play the game you feel that the game wasnt done, like they just slopped it together and 
 put it on store shelves. Im not saying it isnt a good game becasue i like the gaem a lot but it 
 could have been improved very easily. Overall the single campaign is fun, it bounces around abit 
 but its solid and exciting. I only tried the online multiplayer once and didnt like it that much 
 but having only played it once i wont rank it up or down ill let you decide on whether its good 
 or bad. The graphics are very good, i was running the game on 480i, but then later switched over 
 to 480p and saw a very big difference and now i love the visuals. Now about the framerate problems 
 yes there are some mainly in the first level, after you get passed the first level the game runs 
 a lot smoother. I like this game but ubisoft could have made me love this game if only they had 
 spent more time trying to resolve the framerate issues. Now lets all hope that they dont do this 
 with R6: Vegas and GRAW 2. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: Sserv
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 3, 2007 3:53 pm PT
Review:  Sam Fisher has once again returned in Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell Double Agent. This is the first 
 Splinter Cell, and probably the last, to appear on the Ps3. This is essentially the same game that 
 was released for the Xbox 360 last october. Unfortunately the Ps3 version of Double Agent is an 
 inferior port of the xbox 360 version. The most noticeable difference is the frame rate, which 
 is downright atrotious. It constantly lags and it interferes with the game much more than it should. 
 If it were any worse it would render the game unplayable. The rooftop objective in the first J. B. A. 
 mission has been removed. Why? For no reason thats why. This version is also incredibly jaggy compared 
 to the 360 version. Other than that the games are virtually the same. You control Sam Fisher with 
 his typical gadgets (silenced pistol, SC20K w/ attachments, etc) but the key difference with this 
 installment is the trust meter. The trust meter effects how much the N. S. A. and J. B. A. trust you 
 (duh) . The trust meter isn't used to its full potential and seems rather tacked on. The game would 
 probably be better off without it. Other than that the game uses the same (somewhat tired) formula 
 used in the last 3 Splinter Cell games with the inclusion of ''Headquarters mission'' where you 
 have to do a series of objectives for the NSA and JBA in 30 minutes. These missions drag the game 
 down significantly and in the end there just not nearly as entertaining as Sam's typical stealth 
 missions.
  
  The single player game will last about 6-10 hours depending on skill. Either way its a pretty short 
 game but its definitely worth at least one play through. Once you complete the single player campaign 
 you can jump in to multiplayer. Thankfully, ubisoft has decided to include 2 additional maps and 
 female spy skins for the Ps3 version. The multiplayer is enjoyable although fans of Pandora tomorrow 
 and Chaos Theory will likely be disappointed by the lack of gadgets and options. In the multiplayer 
 mode you can either play as a spy (fast, agile, 3rd person) or a mercenary (guns, grenades, 1st 
 person) . The objective for the multiplayer game is for the spies to download data from color specific 
 terminals scattered across the map using a remote hacking device. The closer you are to the terminal, 
 the faster the hacking goes. Once you've completely hacked a file you must race back to the spawn 
 area and score. The mercenaries simply have to prevent the spies from hacking these terminals by 
 any means necessary. Overall Splinter Cell Double Agent is a good stealth action game that unfortunately 
 doesn't live up to Previous installments in the franchise. That being said, its still competent 
 and worth playing. Just don't go in expecting an experience as good as Chaos Theory. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: ICTMaster
Rating: 8.6
Date: Apr 3, 2007 2:34 am PT
Review:  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent is a very good game, but the story is not as quite exciting 
 as the story to Chaos Theory. The double agent concept was worth trying, but not as fun as just 
 playing as an regular NSA agent.
  
  The graphics looks really good, but it has some frame rate problems. Sometimes it is very bad, 
 but it usually runs smoothly.
  
  The sound is good, voice acting is great.
  
  Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell: Double Agent is worth playing for Splinter Cell series fans, but newcomers 
 can be a little disappointed with the double agent concept, i think.
  
  Good game, worth playing, go buy it. ;) 
::::::

::::::
UserName: pspdude14
Rating: 8.4
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:22 pm PT
Review:  Splinter Cell 4 (Double Agent) on the PLAYSTATION3 is a straight port from the XB360 version, although 
 it has had an extra 6 months to be polished.
  
  Graphics and Appearance: First off, the menus look and sound great. The single player has amazing 
 graphics, possibly the best PS3 graphics yet, however it is let down by a VERY unstable framerate. 
 It struggles to stay at a measly 20FPS even when there is no action. It, however, does not suffer 
 from the screen tearing and V-Sync issues seen in the XB360 version. In the multiplayer modes the 
 graphics have been toned down alot, this is to reduce 'lag' and to make the game run as smooth 
 as possible. It has infact worked; there is very little lag and it runs at a steady 30FPS.
  
  Gameplay: If you have played a Splinter Cell before, then you should know how it works; You 
 need to get to an objective or find something out, but you cannot run and gun, you need to be stealthy 
 and stick in the darkness! It works great and is a lot of fun (online and offline) . Multiplayer: 
 In Splinter Cell: Double Agent, there is ONLY online multiplayer, meaning NO offline split-screen, 
 or system link support. Online, there is two teams, the Mercenaries and the Spies. There is a selection 
 of around 12 maps which are very well thought out and are well balanced. In these maps there is 
 four 'Terminals' which the Spies must hack into: The mercenaries must protect these with there 
 lives! The spies have access to a few gadgets, however have NO guns - They can only kill the Mercs 
 using hand-to-hand attacks. The main bonus of being a spy is that you can go anywhere! See a vent? 
 See an underground sewer? Or see that wardrobe? Well, you can go into it, climb over it, jump though 
 it, slide through it, or any other form of action you wish!
  
  The multiplayer supports 6 players; 3 on each team. This works excellently.
  
  Overall: I have 
 to say that is easily the best Fisher experience yet! Graphics and gameplay are amazing, but to 
 top it off: the multiplayer is immersive, addictive and MAJOR fun! This is a must buy for all PS3 
 owners looking to play an amazing multiplayer game, or if you just love Splinter Cell!
  
  Oh and BTW: This Splinter Cell is COMPLETELY different from the PS2 version and has nothing to 
 do with it! 
::::::

::::::
UserName: lson2ul
Rating: 8.8
Date: Apr 2, 2007 2:27 am PT
Review:  I bought this game a few days ago. Framerate is quick and steady. (The user Tourismo must get kicks 
 from lying. Gameplay is perfect and controls are very responsive. The only solo erk I have is that 
 the loading animations sometimes slow down.) Graphics are great, though not amazing. No, I don't 
 know what the 360 version looks like. Multiplayer is fun and rewards system makes you want to play 
 both as a merc and spy. However, the game lacks split screen co-op and the inability to add friends 
 or send messages in-game without accessing the PSMenu can get annoying. If you're going to play 
 this game online, get a headset.
  
  Overall, I don't regret buying this game new. And this will probably tide me over until rainbow 
 six vegas comes out. Peace. 
::::::

::::::
UserName: big_chris_24
Rating: 7.1
Date: Apr 1, 2007 10:53 pm PT
Review:  Splinter cell 4 has its moments and being the first splinter game I have play I was abit disappointed. 
 The game is a port from the ps2 that should of just stayed on the ps2 (it was a good ps2 game) . 
 I like the way the whole game ran and the story but it would have been the same on the ps2. I just 
 think paying 120 dollars for I game pretty much the same, as a game worth 50 dollars is a bit much. 
 If you want this game just buy it for ps2 your save your self a lot of stress and money 
::::::

::::::
UserName: tourismo
Rating: 7.9
Date: Apr 1, 2007 7:36 pm PT
Review:  I have played all of the splinter cell franchise's games. all of which i played on sony's consoles, 
 the PS2 games and now double agent on the PS3. I did get a chance to play the original SC on the 
 xbox when it first came out. And the technology on the xbox version far surpassed that on the PS2 
 version. With this next-gen battle of platforms, i havent gotten a chance to play the 360 version 
 for comparison. All i can say is that i hope that version's frame rate is better than the PS3's 
 version. This is absolutely ugly, and holds the game back quite a bit. Im not exaggerating. The 
 very first level, i said to myself, wow this spot of the level sure is slowing the graphics down. 
 but the problem is that it never stopped. i kept playing and kept playing, hoping that it was just 
 that level. but i have ventured about half way through the game, and it is bad the entire way through. 
 i mean not just a little, its pretty bad. which i was very surprised that they released the game 
 with this bad of a frame rate. i couldnt believe it, and was very disappointed. But i can tell, 
 if this game had a better frame rate, it would have been excellent. Because the gameplay is as 
 good as ever. and the levels are engaging and intense. Now the ONLINE play is fantastic. there 
 is mostly smooth frame rate here. almost always a smooth frame rate. just a little slowdown occurs, 
 but not enough to make it standout. So i tell you what. If u're an online splinter cell player, 
 u'll have no problem with the first release on the Playstation 3. Just dont expect to enjoy the 
 single player portion of the game with the horrible frame rate. 
::::::

-------------------------------------------------
